


                                   1.

                             _Invitation._

                 Venture, comrades, I implore you,
                 On the fare I set before you,
                   You will like it more to-morrow,
                     Better still the following day:
                 If yet more you're then requiring,
                 Old success I'll find inspiring,
                   And fresh courage thence will borrow
                     Novel dainties to display.


                                   2.

                            _My Good Luck._

                Weary of Seeking had I grown,
                  So taught myself the way to Find:
                Back by the storm I once was blown,
                  But follow now, where drives the wind.


                                   3.

                             _Undismayed._

                 Where you're standing, dig, dig out:
                   Down below's the Well:
                 Let them that walk in darkness shout:
                   "Down below—there's Hell!"


                                   4.

                              _Dialogue._

                 _A._ Was I ill? and is it ended?
                    Pray, by what physician tended?
                    I recall no pain endured!
                 _B._ Now I know your trouble's ended:
                    He that can forget, is cured.


                                   5.

                           _To the Virtuous._

        Let our virtues be easy and nimble-footed in motion,
        Like unto Homer's verse ought they to come _and to go_.


                                   6.

                           _Worldly Wisdom._

                    Stay not on level plain,
                      Climb not the mount too high,
                    But half-way up remain—
                      The world you'll best descry!


                                   7.

                         _Vademecum—Vadetecum._

                  Attracted by my style and talk
                  You'd follow, in my footsteps walk?
                  Follow yourself unswervingly,
                  So—careful!—shall you follow me.


                                   8.

                         _The Third Sloughing._

               My skin bursts, breaks for fresh rebirth,
                 And new desires come thronging:
               Much I've devoured, yet for more earth
                 The serpent in me's longing.
               'Twixt stone and grass I crawl once more,
                 Hungry, by crooked ways,
               To eat the food I ate before,
                 Earth-fare all serpents praise!


                                   9.

                              _My Roses._

                My luck's good—I'd make yours fairer,
                (Good luck ever needs a sharer),
                Will you stop and pluck my roses?

                Oft mid rocks and thorns you'll linger,
                Hide and stoop, suck bleeding finger—
                Will you stop and pluck my roses?

                For my good luck's a trifle vicious,
                Fond of teasing, tricks malicious—
                Will you stop and pluck my roses?


                                  10.

                             _The Scorner._

                   Many drops I waste and spill,
                   So my scornful mood you curse:
                   Who to brim his cup doth fill,
                   Many drops _must_ waste and spill—
                   Yet he thinks the wine no worse.


                                  11.

                         _The Proverb Speaks._

                Harsh and gentle, fine and mean,
                Quite rare and common, dirty and clean,
                The fools' and the sages' go-between:
                All this I will be, this have been,
                Dove and serpent and swine, I ween!


                                  12.

                         _To a Lover of Light._

                   That eye and sense be not fordone
                   E'en in the shade pursue the sun!


                                  13.

                             _For Dancers._

                      Smoothest ice,
                      A paradise
                      To him who is a dancer nice.


                                  14.

                            _The Brave Man._

                A feud that knows not flaw nor break,
                Rather then patched-up friendship, take.


                                  15.

                                _Rust._

              Rust's needed: keenness will not satisfy!
              "He is too young!" the rabble loves to cry.


                                  16.

                              _Excelsior._

                  "How shall I reach the top?" No time
                  For thus reflecting! Start to climb!


                                  17.

                       _The Man of Power Speaks._

                  Ask never! Cease that whining, pray!
                  Take without asking, take alway!


                                  18.

                            _Narrow Souls._

                 Narrow souls hate I like the devil,
                 Souls wherein grows nor good nor evil.


                                  19.

                      _Accidentally a Seducer._[3]

                        He shot an empty word
                          Into the empty blue;
                        But on the way it met
                          A woman whom it slew.


                                  20.

                          _For Consideration._

               A twofold pain is easier far to bear
               Than one: so now to suffer wilt thou dare?


                                  21.

                            _Against Pride._

              Brother, to puff thyself up ne'er be quick:
              For burst thou shalt be by a tiny prick!


                                  22.

                            _Man and Woman._

              "The woman seize, who to thy heart appeals!"
              Man's motto: woman seizes not, but steals.


                                  23.

                           _Interpretation._

                   If I explain my wisdom, surely
                   'Tis but entangled more securely,
                     I can't expound myself aright:
                   But he that's boldly up and doing,
                   His own unaided course pursuing,
                     Upon my image casts more light!


                                  24.

                        _A Cure for Pessimism._

              Those old capricious fancies, friend!
                You say your palate naught can please,
                I hear you bluster, spit and wheeze,
              My love, my patience soon will end!
              Pluck up your courage, follow me—
                Here's a fat toad! Now then, don't blink,
                Swallow it whole, nor pause to think!
              From your dyspepsia you'll be free!


                                  25.

                              _A Request._

                 Many men's minds I know full well,
                 Yet what mine own is, cannot tell.
                 I cannot see—my eye's too near—
                 And falsely to myself appear.
                 'Twould be to me a benefit
                 Far from myself if I could sit,
                 Less distant than my enemy,
                 And yet my nearest friend's too nigh—
                 'Twixt him and me, just in the middle!
                 What do I ask for? Guess my riddle!


                                  26.

                             _My Cruelty._

                   I must ascend an hundred stairs,
                   I must ascend: the herd declares
                   I'm cruel: "Are we made of stone?"
                   I must ascend an hundred stairs:
                   All men the part of stair disown.


                                  27.

                            _The Wanderer._

          "No longer path! Abyss and silence chilling!"
          Thy fault! To leave the path thou wast too willing!
          Now comes the test! Keep cool—eyes bright and clear!
          Thou'rt lost for sure, if thou permittest—fear.


                                  28.

                     _Encouragement for Beginners._

                 See the infant, helpless creeping—
                   Swine around it grunt swine-talk—
                 Weeping always, naught but weeping,
                   Will it ever learn to walk?
                 Never fear! Just wait, I swear it
                   Soon to dance will be inclined,
                 And this babe, when two legs bear it,
                   Standing on its head you'll find.


                                  29.

                            _Planet Egoism._

                   Did I not turn, a rolling cask,
                   Ever about myself, I ask,
                   How could I without burning run
                   Close on the track of the hot sun?


                                  30.

                            _The Neighbour._

                  Too nigh, my friend my joy doth mar,
                  I'd have him high above and far,
                  Or how can he become my star?


                                  31.

                         _The Disguised Saint._

                Lest we for thy bliss should slay thee,
                In devil's wiles thou dost array thee,
                  Devil's wit and devil's dress.
                But in vain! Thy looks betray thee
                  And proclaim thy holiness.


                                  32.

                              _The Slave._

              _A._ He stands and listens: whence his pain?
                 What smote his ears? Some far refrain?
                 Why is his heart with anguish torn?
              _B._ Like all that fetters once have worn,
                 He always hears the clinking—chain!


                                  33.

                            _The Lone One._

              I hate to follow and I hate to lead.
              Obedience? no! and ruling? no, indeed!
                Wouldst fearful be in others' sight?
                Then e'en _thyself_ thou must affright:
              The people but the Terror's guidance heed.
              I hate to guide myself, I hate the fray.
              Like the wild beasts I'll wander far afield.
                In Error's pleasing toils I'll roam
                Awhile, then lure myself back home,
              Back home, and—to my self-seduction yield.


                                  34.

                      _Seneca et hoc Genus omne._

               They write and write (quite maddening me)
               Their "sapient" twaddle airy,
               As if 'twere _primum scribere,
               Deinde philosophari_.


                                  35.

                                 _Ice._

                      Yes! I manufacture ice:
                      Ice may help you to digest:
                      If you _had_ much to digest,
                      How you would enjoy my ice!


                                  36.

                          _Youthful Writings._

                My wisdom's A and final O
                Was then the sound that smote mine ear.
                Yet now it rings no longer so,
                My youth's eternal Ah! and Oh!
                Is now the only sound I hear.[4]


                                  37.

                              _Foresight._

       In yonder region travelling, take good care!
       An hast thou wit, then be thou doubly ware!
       They'll smile and lure thee; then thy limbs they'll tear:
       Fanatics' country this where wits are rare!


                                  38.

                        _The Pious One Speaks._

             God loves us, _for_ he made us, sent us here!—
             "Man hath made God!" ye subtle ones reply.
             His handiwork he must hold dear,
             And _what he made_ shall he deny?
             There sounds the devil's halting hoof, I fear.


                                  39.

                              _In Summer._

               In sweat of face, so runs the screed,
                 We e'er must eat our bread,
               Yet wise physicians if we heed
                 "Eat naught in sweat," 'tis said.
               The dog-star's blinking: what's his need?
                 What tells his blazing sign?
               In sweat of face (so runs _his_ screed)
                 We're meant to drink our wine!


                                  40.

                            _Without Envy._

           His look bewrays no envy: and ye laud him?
           He cares not, asks not if your throng applaud him!
           He has the eagle's eye for distance far,
           He sees you not, he sees but star on star!


                                  41.

                             _Heraclitism._

               Brethren, war's the origin
                 Of happiness on earth:
               Powder-smoke and battle-din
                 Witness friendship's birth!
               Friendship means three things, you know,—
                 Kinship in luckless plight,
               Equality before the foe
                 Freedom—in death's sight!


                                  42.

                      _Maxim of the Over-refined._

                    "Rather on your toes stand high
                      Than crawl upon all fours,
                    Rather through the keyhole spy
                      Than through open doors!"


                                  43.

                             _Exhortation._

                 Renown you're quite resolved to earn?
                   My thought about it
                 Is this: you need not fame, must learn
                   To do without it!


                                  44.

                              _Thorough._

            I an Inquirer? No, that's not my calling
              Only _I weigh a lot_—I'm such a lump!—
            And through the waters I keep falling, falling,
              Till on the ocean's deepest bed I bump.


                                  45.

                            _The Immortals._

         "To-day is meet for me, I come to-day,"
         Such is the speech of men foredoomed to stay.
           "Thou art too soon," they cry, "thou art too late,"
         What care the Immortals what the rabble say?


                                  46.

                        _Verdicts of the Weary._

               The weary shun the glaring sun, afraid,
               And only care for trees to gain the shade.


                                  47.

                               _Descent._

           "He sinks, he falls," your scornful looks portend:
           The truth is, to your level he'll descend.
             His Too Much Joy is turned to weariness,
           His Too Much Light will in your darkness end.


                                  48.

                         _Nature Silenced._[5]

                Around my neck, on chain of hair,
                The timepiece hangs—a sign of care.
                For me the starry course is o'er,
                No sun and shadow as before,
                No cockcrow summons at the door,
                For nature tells the time no more!
                Too many clocks her voice have drowned,
                And droning law has dulled her sound.


                                  49.

                           _The Sage Speaks._

             Strange to the crowd, yet useful to the crowd,
             I still pursue my path, now sun, now cloud,
             But always pass above the crowd!


                                  50.

                         _He lost his Head...._

            She now has wit—how did it come her way?
            A man through her his reason lost, they say.
            His head, though wise ere to this pastime lent,
            Straight to the devil—no, to woman went!


                                  51.

                            _A Pious Wish._

             "Oh, might all keys be lost! 'Twere better so
             And in all keyholes might the pick-lock go!"
             Who thus reflects ye may as—picklock know.


                                  52.

                            _Foot Writing._

           I write not with the hand alone,
             My foot would write, my foot that capers,
           Firm, free and bold, it's marching on
             Now through the fields, now through the papers.


                                  53.

                      "_Human, All-too-Human._"...

           Shy, gloomy, when your looks are backward thrust,
           Trusting the future where yourself you trust,
           Are you an eagle, mid the nobler fowl,
           Or are you like Minerva's darling owl?


                                  54.

                            _To my Reader._

                 Good teeth and a digestion good
                   I wish you—these you need, be sure!
                 And, certes, if my book you've stood,
                   Me with good humour you'll endure.


                                  55.

                        _The Realistic Painter._

            "To nature true, complete!" so he begins.
            Who complete Nature to his canvas _wins_?
            Her tiniest fragment's endless, no constraint
            Can know: he paints just what his _fancy_ pins:
            What does his fancy pin? What he _can_ paint!


                                  56.

                            _Poets' Vanity._

                Glue, only glue to me dispense,
                  The wood I'll find myself, don't fear!
                To give four senseless verses sense—
                  That's an achievement I revere!


                                  57.

                          _Taste in Choosing._

                  If to choose my niche precise
                    Freedom I could win from fate,
                  I'd be in midst of Paradise—
                    Or, sooner still—before the gate!


                                  58.

                          _The Crooked Nose._

                 Wide blow your nostrils, and across
                 The land your nose holds haughty sway:
                 So you, unhorned rhinoceros,
                 Proud mannikin, fall forward aye!
                 The one trait with the other goes:
                 A straight pride and a crooked nose.


                                  59.

                      _The Pen is Scratching...._

               The pen is scratching: hang the pen!
                 To scratching I'm condemned to sink!
               I grasp the inkstand fiercely then
                 And write in floods of flowing ink.
               How broad, how full the stream's career!
                 What luck my labours doth requite!
               'Tis true, the writing's none too clear—
                 What then? Who reads the stuff I write?


                                  60.

                           _Loftier Spirits._

               This man's climbing up—let us praise him—
               But that other we love
               From aloft doth eternally move,
               So above even praise let us raise him,
               He _comes_ from above!


                                  61.

                         _The Sceptic Speaks._

         Your life is half-way o'er;
         The clock-hand moves; your soul is thrilled with fear,
         It roamed to distant shore
         And sought and found not, yet you—linger here!

         Your life is half-way o'er;
         That hour by hour was pain and error sheer:
         _Why stay?_ What seek you more?
         "That's what I'm seeking—reasons why I'm here!"


                                  62.

                              _Ecce Homo._

                Yes, I know where I'm related,
                Like the flame, unquenched, unsated,
                  I consume myself and glow:
                All's turned to light I lay my hand on,
                All to coal that I abandon,
                  Yes, I am a flame, I know!


                                  63.

                          _Star Morality._[6]

                 Foredoomed to spaces vast and far,
                 What matters darkness to the star?

                 Roll calmly on, let time go by,
                 Let sorrows pass thee—nations die!

                 Compassion would but dim the light
                 That distant worlds will gladly sight.

                 To thee one law—be pure and bright!

-----

Footnote 3:

  Translated by Miss M. D. Petre.

Footnote 4:

  A and O, suggestive of Ah! and Oh! refer of course to Alpha and Omega,
  the first and last letters of the Greek alphabet.—TR.

Footnote 5:

  Translated by Miss M. D. Petre.

Footnote 6:

  Translated by Miss M. D. Petre.




                               BOOK FIRST


                                   1.

_The Teachers of the Object of Existence._—Whether I look with a good or
an evil eye upon men, I find them always at one problem, each and all of
them: to do that which conduces to the conservation of the human
species. And certainly not out of any sentiment of love for this
species, but simply because nothing in them is older, stronger, more
inexorable, and more unconquerable than that instinct,—because it is
precisely _the essence_ of our race and herd. Although we are accustomed
readily enough, with our usual short-sightedness, to separate our
neighbours precisely into useful and hurtful, into good and evil men,
yet when we make a general calculation, and on longer reflection on the
whole question, we become distrustful of this defining and separating,
and finally leave it alone. Even the most hurtful man is still perhaps,
in respect to the conservation of the race, the most useful of all; for
he conserves in himself or by his effect on others, impulses without
which mankind might long ago have languished or decayed. Hatred, delight
in mischief, rapacity and ambition, and whatever else is called
evil—belong to the marvellous economy of the conservation of the race;
to be sure a costly, lavish, and on the whole very foolish
economy:—which has, however, hitherto preserved our race, _as is
demonstrated to us_. I no longer know, my dear fellow-man and neighbour,
if thou _canst_ at all live to the disadvantage of the race, and
therefore, "unreasonably" and "badly"; that which could have injured the
race has perhaps died out many millenniums ago, and now belongs to the
things which are no longer possible even to God. Indulge thy best or thy
worst desires, and above all, go to wreck!—in either case thou art still
probably the furtherer and benefactor of mankind in some way or other,
and in that respect thou mayest have thy panegyrists—and similarly thy
mockers! But thou wilt never find him who would be quite qualified to
mock at thee, the individual, at thy best, who could bring home to thy
conscience its limitless, buzzing and croaking wretchedness so as to be
in accord with truth! To laugh at oneself as one would have to laugh in
order to laugh _out of the veriest truth_,—to do this the best have not
hitherto had enough of the sense of truth, and the most endowed have had
far too little genius! There is perhaps still a future even for
laughter! When the maxim, "The race is all, the individual is
nothing,"—has incorporated itself in humanity, and when access stands
open to every one at all times to this ultimate emancipation and
irresponsibility.—Perhaps then laughter will have united with wisdom,
perhaps then there will be only "joyful wisdom." Meanwhile, however, it
is quite otherwise, meanwhile the comedy of existence has not yet
"become conscious" of itself, meanwhile it is still the period of
tragedy, the period of morals and religions. What does the ever new
appearing of founders of morals and religions, of instigators of
struggles for moral valuations, of teachers of remorse of conscience and
religious war, imply? What do these heroes on this stage imply? For they
have hitherto been the heroes of it, and all else, though solely visible
for the time being, and too close to one, has served only as preparation
for these heroes, whether as machinery and coulisse, or in the rôle of
confidants and valets. (The poets, for example, have always been the
valets of some morality or other.)—It is obvious of itself that these
tragedians also work in the interest of the _race_, though they may
believe that they work in the interest of God, and as emissaries of God.
They also further the life of the species, _in that they further the
belief in life_. "It is worth while to live"—each of them calls
out,—"there is something of importance in this life; life has something
behind it and under it; take care!" That impulse, which rules equally in
the noblest and the ignoblest, the impulse towards the conservation of
the species, breaks forth from time to time as reason and passion of
spirit; it has then a brilliant train of motives about it, and tries
with all its power to make us forget that fundamentally it is just
impulse, instinct, folly and baselessness. Life _should_ be loved, _for_
...! Man _should_ benefit himself and his neighbour, _for_ ...! And
whatever all these _shoulds_ and _fors_ imply, and may imply in future!
In order that that which necessarily and always happens of itself and
without design, may henceforth appear to be done by design, and may
appeal to men as reason and ultimate command,—for that purpose the
ethiculturist comes forward as the teacher of design in existence; for
that purpose he devises a second and different existence, and by means
of this new mechanism he lifts the old common existence off its old
common hinges. No! he does not at all want us to _laugh_ at existence,
nor even at ourselves—nor at himself; to him an individual is always an
individual, something first and last and immense, to him there are no
species, no sums, no noughts. However foolish and fanatical his
inventions and valuations may be, however much he may misunderstand the
course of nature and deny its conditions—and all systems of ethics
hitherto have been foolish and anti-natural to such a degree that
mankind would have been ruined by any one of them had it got the upper
hand,—at any rate, every time that "the hero" came upon the stage
something new was attained: the frightful counterpart of laughter, the
profound convulsion of many individuals at the thought, "Yes, it is
worth while to live! yes, I am worthy to live!"—life, and thou, and I,
and all of us together became for a while _interesting_ to ourselves
once more.—It is not to be denied that hitherto laughter and reason and
nature have _in the long run_ got the upper hand of all the great
teachers of design: in the end the short tragedy always passed over once
more into the eternal comedy of existence; and the "waves of innumerable
laughters"—to use the expression of Æschylus—must also in the end beat
over the greatest of these tragedies. But with all this corrective
laughter, human nature has on the whole been changed by the ever new
appearance of those teachers of the design of existence,—human nature
has now an additional requirement, the very requirement of the ever new
appearance of such teachers and doctrines of "design." Man has gradually
become a visionary animal, who has to fulfil one more condition of
existence than the other animals: man _must_ from time to time believe
that he knows _why_ he exists; his species cannot flourish without
periodically confiding in life! Without the belief in _reason in life_!
And always from time to time will the human race decree anew that "there
is something which really may not be laughed at." And the most
clairvoyant philanthropist will add that "not only laughing and joyful
wisdom, but also the tragic, with all its sublime irrationality, counts
among the means and necessities for the conservation of the race!"—And
consequently! Consequently! Consequently! Do you understand me, oh my
brothers? Do you understand this new law of ebb and flow? We also shall
have our time!


                                   2.

_The Intellectual Conscience._—I have always the same experience over
again, and always make a new effort against it; for although it is
evident to me I do not want to believe it: _in the greater number of men
the intellectual conscience is lacking_; indeed, it would often seem to
me that in demanding such a thing, one is as solitary in the largest
cities as in the desert. Everyone looks at you with strange eyes, and
continues to make use of his scales, calling this good and that bad; and
no one blushes for shame when you remark that these weights are not the
full amount,—there is also no indignation against you; perhaps they
laugh at your doubt. I mean to say that _the greater number of people_
do not find it contemptible to believe this or that, and live according
to it, _without_ having been previously aware of the ultimate and surest
reasons for and against it, and without even giving themselves any
trouble about such reasons afterwards,—the most gifted men and the
noblest women still belong to this "greater number." But what is
kind-heartedness, refinement and genius to me, if the man with these
virtues harbours indolent sentiments in belief and judgment, if _the
longing for certainty_ does not rule in him, as his innermost desire and
profoundest need—as that which separates higher from lower men! In
certain pious people I have found a hatred of reason, and have been
favourably disposed to them for it: their bad, intellectual conscience
still betrayed itself, at least in this manner! But to stand in the
midst of this _rerum concordia discors_ and all the marvellous
uncertainty and ambiguity of existence, _and not to question_, not to
tremble with desire and delight in questioning, not even to hate the
questioner—perhaps even to make merry over him to the extent of
weariness—that is what I regard as _contemptible_, and it is this
sentiment which I first of all search for in every one:—some folly or
other always persuades me anew that every man has this sentiment, as
man. This is my special kind of unrighteousness.


                                   3.

_Noble and Ignoble._—To ignoble natures all noble, magnanimous
sentiments appear inexpedient, and on that account first and foremost,
as incredible: they blink with their eyes when they hear of such
matters, and seem inclined to say, "there will, no doubt, be some
advantage therefrom, one cannot see through all walls;"—they are jealous
of the noble person, as if he sought advantage by back-stair methods.
When they are all too plainly convinced of the absence of selfish
intentions and emoluments, the noble person is regarded by them as a
kind of fool: they despise him in his gladness, and laugh at the lustre
of his eye. "How can a person rejoice at being at a disadvantage, how
can a person with open eyes want to meet with disadvantage! It must be a
disease of the reason with which the noble affection is associated,"—so
they think, and they look depreciatingly thereon; just as they
depreciate the joy which the lunatic derives from his fixed idea. The
ignoble nature is distinguished by the fact that it keeps its advantage
steadily in view, and that this thought of the end and advantage is even
stronger than its strongest impulse: not to be tempted to inexpedient
activities by its impulses—that is its wisdom and inspiration. In
comparison with the ignoble nature the higher nature is _more
irrational_:—for the noble, magnanimous, and self-sacrificing person
succumbs in fact to his impulses, and in his best moments his reason
_lapses_ altogether. An animal, which at the risk of life protects its
young, or in the pairing season follows the female where it meets with
death, does not think of the risk and the death; its reason pauses
likewise, because its delight in its young, or in the female, and the
fear of being deprived of this delight, dominate it exclusively; it
becomes stupider than at other times, like the noble and magnanimous
person. He possesses feelings of pleasure and pain of such intensity
that the intellect must either be silent before them, or yield itself to
their service: his heart then goes into his head, and one henceforth
speaks of "passions." (Here and there to be sure, the antithesis to
this, and as it were the "reverse of passion," presents itself; for
example in Fontenelle, to whom some one once laid the hand on the heart
with the words, "What you have there, my dearest friend, is brain
also.") It is the unreason, or perverse reason of passion, which the
ignoble man despises in the noble individual, especially when it
concentrates upon objects whose value appears to him to be altogether
fantastic and arbitrary. He is offended at him who succumbs to the
passion of the belly, but he understands the allurement which here plays
the tyrant; but he does not understand, for example, how a person out of
love of knowledge can stake his health and honour on the game. The taste
of the higher nature devotes itself to exceptional matters, to things
which usually do not affect people, and seem to have no sweetness; the
higher nature has a singular standard of value. Besides, it is mostly of
the belief that it has _not_ a singular standard of value in its
idiosyncrasies of taste; it rather sets up its values and non-values as
the generally valid values and non-values, and thus becomes
incomprehensible and impracticable. It is very rarely that a higher
nature has so much reason over and above as to understand and deal with
everyday men as such; for the most part it believes in its passion as if
it were the concealed passion of every one, and precisely in this belief
it is full of ardour and eloquence. If then such exceptional men do not
perceive themselves as exceptions, how can they ever understand the
ignoble natures and estimate average men fairly! Thus it is that they
also speak of the folly, inexpediency and fantasy of mankind, full of
astonishment at the madness of the world, and that it will not recognise
the "one thing needful for it."—This is the eternal unrighteousness of
noble natures.


                                   4.

_That which Preserves the Species._—The strongest and most evil spirits
have hitherto advanced mankind the most: they always rekindled the
sleeping passions—all orderly arranged society lulls the passions to
sleep; they always reawakened the sense of comparison, of contradiction,
of delight in the new, the adventurous, the untried; they compelled men
to set opinion against opinion, ideal plan against ideal plan. By means
of arms, by upsetting boundary-stones, by violations of piety most of
all: but also by new religions and morals! The same kind of "wickedness"
is in every teacher and preacher of the _new_—which makes a conqueror
infamous, although it expresses itself more refinedly, and does not
immediately set the muscles in motion (and just on that account does not
make so infamous!). The new, however, is under all circumstances the
_evil_, as that which wants to conquer, which tries to upset the old
boundary-stones and the old piety; only the old is the good! The good
men of every age are those who go to the roots of the old thoughts and
bear fruit with them, the agriculturists of the spirit. But every soil
becomes finally exhausted, and the ploughshare of evil must always come
once more.—There is at present a fundamentally erroneous theory of
morals which is much celebrated, especially in England: according to it
the judgments "good" and "evil" are the accumulation of the experiences
of that which is "expedient" and "inexpedient"; according to this
theory, that which is called good is conservative of the species, what
is called evil, however, is detrimental to it. But in reality the evil
impulses are just in as high a degree expedient, indispensable, and
conservative of the species as the good:—only, their function is
different.


                                   5.

_Unconditional Duties._—All men who feel that they need the strongest
words and intonations, the most eloquent gestures and attitudes, in
order to operate _at all_—revolutionary politicians, socialists,
preachers of repentance with or without Christianity, with all of whom
there must be no mere half-success,—all these speak of "duties," and
indeed, always of duties, which have the character of being
unconditional—without such they would have no right to their excessive
pathos: they know that right well! They grasp, therefore, at
philosophies of morality which preach some kind of categorical
imperative, or they assimilate a good lump of religion, as, for example,
Mazzini did. Because they want to be trusted unconditionally, it is
first of all necessary for them to trust themselves unconditionally, on
the basis of some ultimate, undebatable command, sublime in itself, as
the ministers and instruments of which, they would fain feel and
announce themselves. Here we have the most natural, and for the most
part, very influential opponents of moral enlightenment and scepticism:
but they are rare. On the other hand, there is always a very numerous
class of those opponents wherever interest teaches subjection, while
repute and honour seem to forbid it. He who feels himself dishonoured at
the thought of being the _instrument_ of a prince, or of a party and
sect, or even of wealthy power (for example, as the descendant of a
proud, ancient family), but wishes just to be this instrument, or must
be so before himself and before the public—such a person has need of
pathetic principles which can at all times be appealed to:—principles of
an unconditional _ought_, to which a person can subject himself without
shame, and can show himself subjected. All more refined servility holds
fast to the categorical imperative, and is the mortal enemy of those who
want to take away the unconditional character of duty: propriety demands
this from them, and not only propriety.


                                   6.

_Loss of Dignity._—Meditation has lost all its dignity of form; the
ceremonial and solemn bearing of the meditative person have been made a
mockery, and one would no longer endure a wise man of the old style. We
think too hastily and on the way and while walking and in the midst of
business of all kinds, even when we think on the most serious matters;
we require little preparation, even little quiet:—it is as if each of us
carried about an unceasingly revolving machine in his head, which still
works, even under the most unfavourable circumstances. Formerly it was
perceived in a person that on some occasion he wanted to think—it was
perhaps the exception!—that he now wanted to become wiser and collected
his mind on a thought: he put on a long face for it, as for a prayer,
and arrested his step—nay, stood still for hours on the street when the
thought "came"—on one or on two legs. It was thus "worthy of the
affair"!


                                   7.

_Something for the Laborious._—He who at present wants to make moral
questions a subject of study has an immense field of labour before him.
All kinds of passions must be thought about singly, and followed singly
throughout periods, peoples, great and insignificant individuals; all
their rationality, all their valuations and elucidations of things,
ought to come to light! Hitherto all that has given colour to existence
has lacked a history: where would one find a history of love, of
avarice, of envy, of conscience, of piety, of cruelty? Even a
comparative history of law, as also of punishment, has hitherto been
completely lacking. Have the different divisions of the day, the
consequences of a regular appointment of the times for labour, feast,
and repose, ever been made the object of investigation? Do we know the
moral effects of the alimentary substances? Is there a philosophy of
nutrition? (The ever-recurring outcry for and against vegetarianism
proves that as yet there is no such philosophy!) Have the experiences
with regard to communal living, for example, in monasteries, been
collected? Has the dialectic of marriage and friendship been set forth?
The customs of the learned, of trades-people, of artists, and of
mechanics—have they already found their thinkers? There is so much to
think of thereon! All that up till now has been considered as the
"conditions of existence," of human beings, and all reason, passion and
superstition in this consideration—have they been investigated to the
end? The observation alone of the different degrees of development which
the human impulses have attained, and could yet attain, according to the
different moral climates, would furnish too much work for the most
laborious; whole generations, and regular co-operating generations of
the learned, would be needed in order to exhaust the points of view and
the material here furnished. The same is true of the determining of the
reasons for the differences of the moral climates ("_on what account_
does this sun of a fundamental moral judgment and standard of highest
value shine here—and that sun there?"). And there is again a new labour
which points out the erroneousness of all these reasons, and determines
the entire essence of the moral judgments hitherto made. Supposing all
these labours to be accomplished, the most critical of all questions
would then come into the foreground: whether science is in a position to
_furnish_ goals for human action, after it has proved that it can take
them away and annihilate them—and then would be the time for a process
of experimenting in which every kind of heroism could satisfy itself, an
experimenting for centuries, which would put into the shade all the
great labours and sacrifices of previous history. Science has not
hitherto built its Cyclopic structures; for that also the time will
come.


                                   8.

_Unconscious Virtues._—All qualities in a man of which he is
conscious—and especially when he presumes that they are visible and
evident to his environment also—are subject to quite other laws of
development than those qualities which are unknown to him, or
imperfectly known, which by their subtlety can also conceal themselves
from the subtlest observer, and hide as it were behind nothing,—as in
the case of the delicate sculptures on the scales of reptiles (it would
be an error to suppose them an adornment or a defence—for one sees them
only with the microscope; consequently, with an eye artificially
strengthened to an extent of vision which similar animals, to which they
might perhaps have meant adornment or defence, do not possess!) Our
visible moral qualities, and especially our moral qualities _believed to
be_ visible, follow their own course,—and our invisible qualities of
similar name, which in relation to others neither serve for adornment
nor defence, _also follow their own course_: quite a different course
probably, and with lines and refinements, and sculptures, which might
perhaps give pleasure to a God with a divine microscope. We have, for
example, our diligence, our ambition, our acuteness: all the world knows
about them,—and besides, we have probably once more _our_ diligence,
_our_ ambition, _our_ acuteness; but for these—our reptile scales—the
microscope has not yet been invented!—And here the adherents of
instinctive morality will say, "Bravo! He at least regards unconscious
virtues as possible—that suffices us!"—Oh, ye unexacting creatures!


                                   9.

_Our Eruptions._—Numberless things which humanity acquired in its
earlier stages, but so weakly and embryonically that it could not be
noticed that they were acquired, are thrust suddenly into light long
afterwards, perhaps after the lapse of centuries: they have in the
interval become strong and mature. In some ages this or that talent,
this or that virtue seems to be entirely lacking, as it is in some men;
but let us wait only for the grandchildren and grandchildren's children,
if we have time to wait,—they bring the interior of their grandfathers
into the sun, that interior of which the grandfathers themselves were
unconscious. The son, indeed, is often the betrayer of his father; the
latter understands himself better since he has got his son. We have all
hidden gardens and plantations in us; and by another simile, we are all
growing volcanoes, which will have their hours of eruption:—how near or
how distant this is, nobody of course knows, not even the good God.


                                  10.

_A Species of Atavism._—I like best to think of the rare men of an age
as suddenly emerging aftershoots of past cultures, and of their
persistent strength: like the atavism of a people and its
civilisation:—there is thus still something in them to _think of_! They
now seem strange, rare, and extraordinary: and he who feels these forces
in himself has to foster them in face of a different, opposing world; he
has to defend them, honour them, and rear them to maturity: and he
either becomes a great man thereby, or a deranged and eccentric person,
unless he should altogether break down betimes. Formerly these rare
qualities were usual, and were consequently regarded as common: they did
not distinguish people. Perhaps they were demanded and presupposed; it
was impossible to become great with them, for indeed there was also no
danger of becoming insane and solitary with them.—It is principally in
the _old-established_ families and castes of a people that such
after-effects of old impulses present themselves, while there is no
probability of such atavism where races, habits, and valuations change
too rapidly. For the _tempo_ of the evolutional forces in peoples
implies just as much as in music; for our case an _andante_ of evolution
is absolutely necessary, as the _tempo_ of a passionate and slow
spirit:—and the spirit of conserving families is certainly of _that_
sort.


                                  11.

_Consciousness._—Consciousness is the last and latest development of the
organic, and consequently also the most unfinished and least powerful of
these developments. Innumerable mistakes originate out of consciousness,
which, "in spite of fate," as Homer says, cause an animal or a man to
break down earlier than might be necessary. If the conserving bond of
the instincts were not very much more powerful, it would not generally
serve as a regulator: by perverse judging and dreaming with open eyes,
by superficiality and credulity, in short, just by consciousness,
mankind would necessarily have broken down: or rather, without the
former there would long ago have been nothing more of the latter! Before
a function is fully formed and matured, it is a danger to the organism:
all the better if it be then thoroughly tyrannised over! Consciousness
is thus thoroughly tyrannised over—and not least by the pride in it! It
is thought that here is _the quintessence_ of man; that which is
enduring, eternal, ultimate, and most original in him! Consciousness is
regarded as a fixed, given magnitude! Its growth and intermittences are
denied! It is accepted as the "unity of the organism"!—This ludicrous
overvaluation and misconception of consciousness, has as its result the
great utility, that a too rapid maturing of it has thereby been
_hindered_. Because men believed that they already possessed
consciousness, they gave themselves very little trouble to acquire
it—and even now it is not otherwise! It is still an entirely new
_problem_ just dawning on the human eye and hardly yet plainly
recognisable: _to embody knowledge in ourselves_ and make it
instinctive,—a problem which is only seen by those who have grasped the
fact that hitherto our _errors_ alone have been embodied in us, and that
all our consciousness is relative to errors!


                                  12.

_The Goal of Science._—What? The ultimate goal of science is to create
the most pleasure possible to man, and the least possible pain? But what
if pleasure and pain should be so closely connected that he who _wants_
the greatest possible amount of the one _must_ also have the greatest
possible amount of the other,—that he who wants to experience the
"heavenly high jubilation,"[7] must also be ready to be "sorrowful unto
death"?(ref. same footnote) And it is so, perhaps! The Stoics at least
believed it was so, and they were consistent when they wished to have
the least possible pleasure, in order to have the least possible pain
from life. (When one uses the expression: "The virtuous man is the
happiest," it is as much the sign-board of the school for the masses, as
a casuistic subtlety for the subtle.) At present also ye have still the
choice: either the _least possible pain_, in short painlessness—and
after all, socialists and politicians of all parties could not
honourably promise more to their people,—or the _greatest possible
amount of pain_, as the price of the growth of a fullness of refined
delights and enjoyments rarely tasted hitherto! If ye decide for the
former, if ye therefore want to depress and minimise man's capacity for
pain, well, ye must also depress and minimise his _capacity for
enjoyment_. In fact, one can further the one as well as the other goal
_by science_! Perhaps science is as yet best known by its capacity for
depriving man of enjoyment, and making him colder, more statuesque, and
more Stoical. But it might also turn out to be the _great
pain-bringer_!—And then, perhaps, its counteracting force would be
discovered simultaneously, its immense capacity for making new sidereal
worlds of enjoyment beam forth!


                                  13.

_The Theory of the Sense of Power._—We exercise our power over others by
doing them good or by doing them ill—that is all we care for! _Doing
ill_ to those on whom we have to make our power felt; for pain is a far
more sensitive means for that purpose than pleasure:—pain always asks
concerning the cause, while pleasure is inclined to keep within itself
and not look backward. _Doing good_ and being kind to those who are in
any way already dependent on us (that is, who are accustomed to think of
us as their _raison d'être_); we want to increase their power, because
we thus increase our own; or we want to show them the advantage there is
in being in our power,—they thus become more contented with their
position, and more hostile to the enemies of _our_ power and readier to
contend with them. If we make sacrifices in doing good or in doing ill,
it does not alter the ultimate value of our actions; even if we stake
our life in the cause, as martyrs for the sake of our church, it is a
sacrifice to _our_ longing for power, or for the purpose of conserving
our sense of power. He who under these circumstances feels that he "is
in possession of truth," how many possessions does he not let go, in
order to preserve this feeling! What does he not throw overboard, in
order to keep himself "up,"—that is to say, _above_ the others who lack
the "truth"! Certainly the condition we are in when we do ill is seldom
so pleasant, so purely pleasant, as that in which we practise
kindness,—it is an indication that we still lack power, or it betrays
ill-humour at this defect in us; it brings with it new dangers and
uncertainties as to the power we already possess, and clouds our horizon
by the prospect of revenge, scorn, punishment and failure. Perhaps only
those most susceptible to the sense of power, and eager for it, will
prefer to impress the seal of power on the resisting individual,—those
to whom the sight of the already subjugated person as the object of
benevolence is a burden and a tedium. It is a question how a person is
accustomed to _season_ his life; it is a matter of taste whether a
person would rather have the slow or the sudden, the safe or the
dangerous and daring increase of power,—he seeks this or that seasoning
always according to his temperament. An easy booty is something
contemptible to proud natures; they have an agreeable sensation only at
the sight of men of unbroken spirit who could be enemies to them, and
similarly, also, at the sight of all not easily accessible possession;
they are often hard toward the sufferer, for he is not worthy of their
effort or their pride,—but they show themselves so much the more
courteous towards their _equals_, with whom strife and struggle would in
any case be full of honour, _if_ at any time an occasion for it should
present itself. It is under the agreeable feelings of _this_ perspective
that the members of the knightly caste have habituated themselves to
exquisite courtesy toward one another.—Pity is the most pleasant feeling
in those who have not much pride, and have no prospect of great
conquests: the easy booty—and that is what every sufferer is—is for them
an enchanting thing. Pity is said to be the virtue of the gay lady.


                                  14.

_What is called Love._—The lust of property and love: what different
associations each of these ideas evoke!—and yet it might be the same
impulse twice named: on the one occasion disparaged from the standpoint
of those already possessing (in whom the impulse has attained something
of repose, and who are now apprehensive for the safety of their
"possession"); on the other occasion viewed from the standpoint of the
unsatisfied and thirsty, and therefore glorified as "good." Our love of
our neighbour,—is it not a striving after new _property_? And similarly
our love of knowledge, of truth; and in general all the striving after
novelties? We gradually become satiated with the old, the securely
possessed, and again stretch out our hands; even the finest landscape in
which we live for three months is no longer certain of our love, and any
kind of more distant coast excites our covetousness: the possession for
the most part becomes smaller through possessing. Our pleasure in
ourselves seeks to maintain itself, by always transforming something new
_into ourselves_,—that is just possessing. To become satiated with a
possession, that is to become satiated with ourselves. (One can also
suffer from excess,—even the desire to cast away, to share out, can
assume the honourable name of "love.") When we see any one suffering, we
willingly utilise the opportunity then afforded to take possession of
him; the beneficent and sympathetic man, for example, does this; he also
calls the desire for new possession awakened in him, by the name of
"love," and has enjoyment in it, as in a new acquisition suggesting
itself to him. The love of the sexes, however, betrays itself most
plainly as the striving after possession: the lover wants the
unconditioned, sole possession of the person longed for by him; he wants
just as absolute power over her soul as over her body; he wants to be
loved solely, and to dwell and rule in the other soul as what is highest
and most to be desired. When one considers that this means precisely to
_exclude_ all the world from a precious possession, a happiness, and an
enjoyment; when one considers that the lover has in view the
impoverishment and privation of all other rivals, and would like to
become the dragon of his golden hoard, as the most inconsiderate and
selfish of all "conquerors" and exploiters; when one considers finally
that to the lover himself, the whole world besides appears indifferent,
colourless, and worthless, and that he is ready to make every sacrifice,
disturb every arrangement, and put every other interest behind his
own,—one is verily surprised that this ferocious lust of property and
injustice of sexual love should have been glorified and deified to such
an extent at all times; yea, that out of this love the conception of
love as the antithesis of egoism should have been derived, when it is
perhaps precisely the most unqualified expression of egoism. Here,
evidently, the non-possessors and desirers have determined the usage of
language,—there were, of course, always too many of them. Those who have
been favoured with much possession and satiety, have, to be sure,
dropped a word now and then about the "raging demon," as, for instance,
the most lovable and most beloved of all the Athenians—Sophocles; but
Eros always laughed at such revilers,—they were always his greatest
favourites.—There is, of course, here and there on this terrestrial
sphere a kind of sequel to love, in which that covetous longing of two
persons for one another has yielded to a new desire and covetousness, to
a _common_, higher thirst for a superior ideal standing above them: but
who knows this love? Who has experienced it? Its right name is
_friendship_.


                                  15.

_Out of the Distance._—This mountain makes the whole district which it
dominates charming in every way, and full of significance: after we have
said this to ourselves for the hundredth time, we are so irrationally
and so gratefully disposed towards it, as the giver of this charm, that
we fancy it must itself be the most charming thing in the district—and
so we climb it, and are undeceived. All of a sudden, it itself, and the
whole landscape around and under us, is as it were disenchanted; we had
forgotten that many a greatness, like many a goodness, wants only to be
seen at a certain distance, and entirely from below, not from above,—it
is thus only that _it operates_. Perhaps you know men in your
neighbourhood who can only look at themselves from a certain distance to
find themselves at all endurable, or attractive and enlivening; they are
to be dissuaded from self-knowledge.


                                  16.

_Across the Plank._—One must be able to dissimulate in intercourse with
persons who are ashamed of their feelings; they experience a sudden
aversion towards anyone who surprises them in a state of tender, or
enthusiastic and high-running feeling, as if he had seen their secrets.
If one wants to be kind to them in such moments one should make them
laugh, or say some kind of cold, playful wickedness:—their feeling
thereby congeals, and they are again self-possessed. But I give the
moral before the story.—We were once on a time so near one another in
the course of our lives, that nothing more seemed to hinder our
friendship and fraternity, and there was merely a small plank between
us. While you were just about to step on it, I asked you: "Do you want
to come across the plank to me?" But then you did not want to come any
longer; and when I again entreated, you were silent. Since then
mountains and torrents, and whatever separates and alienates, have
interposed between us, and even if we wanted to come to one another, we
could no longer do so! When, however, you now remember that small plank,
you have no longer words,—but merely sobs and amazement.


                                  17.

_Motivation of Poverty._—We cannot, to be sure, by any artifice make a
rich and richly-flowing virtue out of a poor one, but we can gracefully
enough reinterpret its poverty into necessity, so that its aspect no
longer gives pain to us, and we do not make any reproachful faces at
fate on account of it. It is thus that the wise gardener does, who puts
the tiny streamlet of his garden into the arms of a fountain-nymph, and
thus motivates the poverty:—and who would not like him need the nymphs!


                                  18.

_Ancient Pride._—The ancient savour of nobility is lacking in us,
because the ancient slave is lacking in our sentiment. A Greek of noble
descent found such immense intermediate stages, and such a distance
betwixt his elevation and that ultimate baseness, that he could hardly
even see the slave plainly: even Plato no longer saw him entirely. It is
otherwise with us, accustomed as we are to the _doctrine_ of the
equality of men, although not to the equality itself. A being who has
not the free disposal of himself and has not got leisure,—that is not
regarded by us as anything contemptible; there is perhaps too much of
this kind of slavishness in each of us, in accordance with the
conditions of our social order and activity, which are fundamentally
different from those of the ancients.—The Greek philosopher went through
life with the secret feeling that there were many more slaves than
people supposed—that is to say, that every one was a slave who was not a
philosopher. His pride was puffed up when he considered that even the
mightiest of the earth were thus to be looked upon as slaves. This pride
is also unfamiliar to us, and impossible; the word "slave" has not its
full force for us even in simile.


                                  19.

_Evil._—Test the life of the best and most productive men and nations,
and ask yourselves whether a tree which is to grow proudly heavenward
can dispense with bad weather and tempests: whether disfavour and
opposition from without, whether every kind of hatred, jealousy,
stubbornness, distrust, severity, greed, and violence do not belong to
the _favouring_ circumstances without which a great growth even in
virtue is hardly possible? The poison by which the weaker nature is
destroyed is strengthening to the strong individual—and he does not call
it poison.


                                  20.

_Dignity of Folly._—Several millenniums further on in the path of the
last century!—and in everything that man does the highest prudence will
be exhibited: but just thereby prudence will have lost all its dignity.
It will then, sure enough, be necessary to be prudent, but it will also
be so usual and common, that a more fastidious taste will feel this
necessity as _vulgarity_. And just as a tyranny of truth and science
would be in a position to raise the value of falsehood, a tyranny of
prudence could force into prominence a new species of nobleness. To be
noble—that might then mean, perhaps, to be capable of follies.


                                  21.

_To the Teachers of Unselfishness._—The virtues of a man are called
_good_, not in respect of the results they have for himself, but in
respect of the results which we expect therefrom for ourselves and for
society:—we have all along had very little unselfishness, very little
"non-egoism" in our praise of the virtues! For otherwise it could not
but have been seen that the virtues (such as diligence, obedience,
chastity, piety, justice) are mostly _injurious_ to their possessors, as
impulses which rule in them too vehemently and ardently, and do not want
to be kept in co-ordination with the other impulses by the reason. If
you have a virtue, an actual, perfect virtue (and not merely a kind of
impulse towards virtue!)—you are its _victim_! But your neighbour
praises your virtue precisely on that account! One praises the diligent
man though he injures his sight, or the originality and freshness of his
spirit, by his diligence; the youth is honoured and regretted who has
"worn himself out by work," because one passes the judgment that "for
society as a whole the loss of the best individual is only a small
sacrifice! A pity that this sacrifice should be necessary! A much
greater pity, it is true, if the individual should think differently,
and regard his preservation and development as more important than his
work in the service of society!" And so one regrets this youth, not on
his own account, but because a devoted _instrument_, regardless of
self—a so-called "good man," has been lost to society by his death.
Perhaps one further considers the question, whether it would not have
been more advantageous for the interests of society if he had laboured
with less disregard of himself, and had preserved himself
longer,—indeed, one readily admits an advantage therefrom, but one
esteems the other advantage, namely, that a _sacrifice_ has been made,
and that the disposition of the sacrificial animal has once more been
_obviously_ endorsed—as higher and more enduring. It is accordingly, on
the one part, the instrumental character in the virtues which is praised
when the virtues are praised, and on the other part, the blind, ruling
impulse in every virtue, which refuses to let itself be kept within
bounds by the general advantage to the individual; in short, what is
praised is the unreason in the virtues, in consequence of which the
individual allows himself to be transformed into a function of the
whole. The praise of the virtues is the praise of something which is
privately injurious to the individual; it is praise of impulses which
deprive man of his noblest self-love, and the power to take the best
care of himself. To be sure, for the teaching and embodying of virtuous
habits a series of effects of virtue are displayed, which make it appear
that virtue and private advantage are closely related,—and there is in
fact such a relationship! Blindly furious diligence, for example, the
typical virtue of an instrument, is represented as the way to riches and
honour, and as the most beneficial antidote to tedium and passion: but
people are silent concerning its danger, its greatest dangerousness.
Education proceeds in this manner throughout: it endeavours, by a series
of enticements and advantages, to determine the individual to a certain
mode of thinking and acting, which, when it has become habit, impulse
and passion, rules in him and over him, _in opposition to his ultimate
advantage_, but "for the general good." How often do I see that blindly
furious diligence does indeed create riches and honours, but at the same
time deprives the organs of the refinement by virtue of which alone an
enjoyment of riches and honours is possible; so that really the main
expedient for combating tedium and passion, simultaneously blunts the
senses and makes the spirit refractory towards new stimuli! (The busiest
of all ages—our age—does not know how to make anything out of its great
diligence and wealth, except always more and more wealth, and more and
more diligence; there is even more genius needed for laying out wealth
than for acquiring it!—Well, we shall have our "grandchildren"!) If the
education succeeds, every virtue of the individual is a public utility,
and a private disadvantage in respect to the highest private
end,—probably some psycho-æsthetic stunting, or even premature
dissolution. One should consider successively from the same standpoint
the virtues of obedience, chastity, piety, and justice. The praise of
the unselfish, self-sacrificing, virtuous person—he, consequently, who
does not expend his whole energy and reason for _his own_ conservation,
development, elevation, furtherance and augmentation of power, but lives
as regards himself unassumingly and thoughtlessly, perhaps even
indifferently or ironically,—this praise has in any case not originated
out of the spirit of unselfishness! The "neighbour" praises
unselfishness because _he profits by it_! If the neighbour were
"unselfishly" disposed himself, he would reject that destruction of
power, that injury for _his_ advantage, he would thwart such
inclinations in their origin, and above all he would manifest his
unselfishness just by _not giving it a good name_! The fundamental
contradiction in that morality which at present stands in high honour is
here indicated: the _motives_ to such a morality are in antithesis to
its _principle_! That with which this morality wishes to prove itself,
refutes it out of its criterion of what is moral! The maxim, "Thou shalt
renounce thyself and offer thyself as a sacrifice," in order not to be
inconsistent with its own morality, could only be decreed by a being who
himself renounced his own advantage thereby, and who perhaps in the
required self-sacrifice of individuals brought about his own
dissolution. As soon, however, as the neighbour (or society) recommended
altruism _on account of its utility_, the precisely antithetical
proposition, "Thou shalt seek thy advantage even at the expense of
everybody else," was brought into use: accordingly, "thou shalt," and
"thou shalt not," are preached in one breath!


                                  22.

_L'Ordre du Jour pour le Roi._—The day commences: let us begin to
arrange for this day the business and fêtes of our most gracious lord,
who at present is still pleased to repose. His Majesty has bad weather
to-day: we shall be careful not to call it bad; we shall not speak of
the weather,—but we shall go through to-day's business somewhat more
ceremoniously and make the fêtes somewhat more festive than would
otherwise be necessary. His Majesty may perhaps even be sick: we shall
give the last good news of the evening at breakfast, the arrival of M.
Montaigne, who knows how to joke so pleasantly about his sickness,—he
suffers from stone. We shall receive several persons (persons!—what
would that old inflated frog, who will be among them, say, if he heard
this word! "I am no person," he would say, "but always the thing
itself")—and the reception will last longer than is pleasant to anybody;
a sufficient reason for telling about the poet who wrote over his door,
"He who enters here will do me an honour; he who does not—a
favour."—That is, forsooth, saying a discourteous thing in a courteous
manner! And perhaps this poet is quite justified on his part in being
discourteous; they say that the rhymes are better than the rhymester.
Well, let him still make many of them, and withdraw himself as much as
possible from the world: and that is doubtless the significance of his
well-bred rudeness! A prince, on the other hand, is always of more value
than his "verse," even when—but what are we about? We gossip, and the
whole court believes that we have already been at work and racked our
brains: there is no light to be seen earlier than that which burns in
our window.—Hark! Was that not the bell? The devil! The day and the
dance commence, and we do not know our rounds! We must then
improvise,—all the world improvises its day. To-day, let us for once do
like all the world!—And therewith vanished my wonderful morning dream,
probably owing to the violent strokes of the tower-clock, which just
then announced the fifth hour with all the importance which is peculiar
to it. It seems to me that, on this occasion, the God of dreams wanted
to make merry over my habits,—it is my habit to commence the day by
arranging it properly, to make it endurable _for myself_, and it is
possible that I may often have done this too formally, and too much like
a prince.


                                  23.

_The Characteristics of Corruption._—Let us observe the following
characteristics in that condition of society from time to time
necessary, which is designated by the word "corruption." Immediately
upon the appearance of corruption anywhere, a motley _superstition_
gets the upper hand, and the hitherto universal belief of a people
becomes colourless and impotent in comparison with it; for
superstition is freethinking of the second rank,—he who gives himself
over to it selects certain forms and formulæ which appeal to him, and
permits himself a right of choice. The superstitious man is always
much more of a "person," in comparison with the religious man, and a
superstitious society will be one in which there are many individuals,
and a delight in individuality. Seen from this standpoint superstition
always appears as a _progress_ in comparison with belief, and as a
sign that the intellect becomes more independent and claims to have
its rights. Those who reverence the old religion and the religious
disposition then complain of corruption,—they have hitherto also
determined the usage of language, and have given a bad repute to
superstition, even among the freest spirits. Let us learn that it is a
symptom of _enlightenment_.—Secondly, a society in which corruption
takes a hold is blamed for _effeminacy_: for the appreciation of war,
and the delight in war perceptibly diminish in such a society, and the
conveniences of life are now just as eagerly sought after as were
military and gymnastic honours formerly. But one is accustomed to
overlook the fact that the old national energy and national passion,
which acquired a magnificent splendour in war and in the tourney, has
now transferred itself into innumerable private passions, and has
merely become less visible; indeed in periods of "corruption" the
quantity and quality of the expended energy of a people is probably
greater than ever, and the individual spends it lavishly, to such an
extent as could not be done formerly—he was not then rich enough to do
so! And thus it is precisely in times of "effeminacy" that tragedy
runs at large in and out of doors, it is then that ardent love and
ardent hatred are born, and the flame of knowledge flashes heavenward
in full blaze.—Thirdly, as if in amends for the reproach of
superstition and effeminacy, it is customary to say of such periods of
corruption that they are milder, and that cruelty has then greatly
diminished in comparison with the older, more credulous, and stronger
period. But to this praise I am just as little able to assent as to
that reproach: I only grant so much—namely, that cruelty now becomes
more refined, and its older forms are henceforth counter to the taste;
but the wounding and torturing by word and look reaches its highest
development in times of corruption,—it is now only that _wickedness_
is created, and the delight in wickedness. The men of the period of
corruption are witty and calumnious; they know that there are yet
other ways of murdering than by the dagger and the ambush—they know
also that all that is _well said_ is believed in.—Fourthly, it is when
"morals decay" that those beings whom one calls tyrants first make
their appearance; they are the forerunners of the _individual_, and as
it were early matured _firstlings_. Yet a little while, and this fruit
of fruits hangs ripe and yellow on the tree of a people,—and only for
the sake of such fruit did this tree exist! When the decay has reached
its worst, and likewise the conflict of all sorts of tyrants, there
always arises the Cæsar, the final tyrant, who puts an end to the
exhausted struggle for sovereignty, by making the exhaustedness work
for him. In his time the individual is usually most mature, and
consequently the "culture" is highest and most fruitful, but not on
his account nor through him: although the men of highest culture love
to flatter their Cæsar by pretending that they are _his_ creation. The
truth, however, is that they need quietness externally, because
internally they have disquietude and labour. In these times bribery
and treason are at their height: for the love of the _ego_, then first
discovered, is much more powerful than the love of the old, used-up,
hackneyed "fatherland"; and the need to be secure in one way or other
against the frightful fluctuations of fortune, opens even the nobler
hands, as soon as a richer and more powerful person shows himself
ready to put gold into them. There is then so little certainty with
regard to the future; people live only for the day: a condition of
mind which enables every deceiver to play an easy game,—people of
course only let themselves be misled and bribed "for the present," and
reserve for themselves futurity and virtue. The individuals, as is
well known, the men who only live for themselves, provide for the
moment more than do their opposites, the gregarious men, because they
consider themselves just as incalculable as the future; and similarly
they attach themselves willingly to despots, because they believe
themselves capable of activities and expedients, which can neither
reckon on being understood by the multitude, nor on finding favour
with them,—but the tyrant or the Cæsar understands the rights of the
Individual even in his excesses, and has an interest in speaking on
behalf of a bolder private morality, and even in giving his hand to
it. For he thinks of himself, and wishes people to think of him what
Napoleon once uttered in his classical style—"I have the right to
answer by an eternal 'thus I am' to everything about which complaint
is brought against me. I am apart from all the world, I accept
conditions from nobody. I wish people also to submit to my fancies,
and to take it quite as a simple matter, if I should indulge in this
or that diversion." Thus spoke Napoleon once to his wife, when she had
reasons for calling in question the fidelity of her husband.—The times
of corruption are the seasons when the apples fall from the tree: I
mean the individuals, the seed-bearers of the future, the pioneers of
the spiritual colonisation and of a new construction of national and
social unions. Corruption is only an abusive term for the _harvest
time_ of a people.


                                  24.

_Different Dissatisfactions._—The feeble and as it were feminine
dissatisfied people have ingenuity for beautifying and deepening life;
the strong dissatisfied people—the masculine persons among them, to
continue the metaphor—have the ingenuity for improving and safeguarding
life. The former show their weakness and feminine character by willingly
letting themselves be temporarily deceived, and perhaps even by putting
up with a little ecstasy and enthusiasm on a time, but on the whole they
are never to be satisfied, and suffer from the incurability of their
dissatisfaction; moreover they are the patrons of all those who manage
to concoct opiate and narcotic comforts, and just on that account averse
to those who value the physician higher than the priest,—they thereby
encourage the _continuance_ of actual distress! If there had not been a
surplus of dissatisfied persons of this kind in Europe since the time of
the Middle Ages, the remarkable capacity of Europeans for constant
_transformation_ would perhaps not have originated at all; for the
claims of the strong dissatisfied persons are too gross, and really too
modest to resist being finally quieted down. China is an instance of a
country in which dissatisfaction on a grand scale and the capacity for
transformation have died out for many centuries; and the Socialists and
state-idolaters of Europe could easily bring things to Chinese
conditions and to a Chinese "happiness," with their measures for the
amelioration and security of life, provided that they could first of all
root out the sicklier, tenderer, more feminine dissatisfaction and
Romanticism which are still very abundant among us. Europe is an invalid
who owes her best thanks to her incurability and the eternal
transformations of her sufferings; these constant new situations, these
equally constant new dangers, pains, and make-shifts, have at last
generated an intellectual sensitiveness which is almost equal to genius,
and is in any case the mother of all genius.


                                  25.

_Not Pre-ordained to Knowledge._—There is a purblind humility not at all
rare, and when a person is afflicted with it, he is once for all
unqualified for being a disciple of knowledge. It is this in fact: the
moment a man of this kind perceives anything striking, he turns as it
were on his heel, and says to himself: "You have deceived yourself!
Where have your wits been! This cannot be the truth!"—and then, instead
of looking at it and listening to it with more attention, he runs out of
the way of the striking object as if intimidated, and seeks to get it
out of his head as quickly as possible. For his fundamental rule runs
thus: "I want to see nothing that contradicts the usual opinion
concerning things! Am _I_ created for the purpose of discovering new
truths? There are already too many of the old ones."


                                  26.

_What is Living?_—Living—that is to continually eliminate from ourselves
what is about to die; Living—that is to be cruel and inexorable towards
all that becomes weak and old in ourselves, and not only in ourselves.
Living—that means, therefore, to be without piety toward the dying, the
wretched and the old? To be continually a murderer?—And yet old Moses
said: "Thou shalt not kill!"


                                  27.

_The Self-Renouncer._—What does the self-renouncer do? He strives after
a higher world, he wants to fly longer and further and higher than all
men of affirmation—he _throws away many things_ that would burden his
flight, and several things among them that are not valueless, that are
not unpleasant to him: he sacrifices them to his desire for elevation.
Now this sacrificing, this casting away, is the very thing which becomes
visible in him: on that account one calls him the self-renouncer, and as
such he stands before us, enveloped in his cowl, and as the soul of a
hair-shirt. With this effect, however, which he makes upon us he is well
content: he wants to keep concealed from us his desire, his pride, his
intention of flying _above_ us.—Yes! He is wiser than we thought, and so
courteous towards us—this affirmer! For that is what he is, like us,
even in his self-renunciation.


                                  28.

_Injuring with one's best Qualities._—Our strong points sometimes drive
us so far forward that we cannot any longer endure our weaknesses, and
we perish by them: we also perhaps see this result beforehand, but
nevertheless do not want it to be otherwise. We then become hard towards
that which would fain be spared in us, and our pitilessness is also our
greatness. Such an experience, which must in the end cost us our life,
is a symbol of the collective effect of great men upon others and upon
their epoch:—it is just with their best abilities, with that which only
_they_ can do, that they destroy much that is weak, uncertain, evolving,
and _willing_, and are thereby injurious. Indeed, the case may happen in
which, taken on the whole, they only do injury, because their best is
accepted and drunk up as it were solely by those who lose their
understanding and their egoism by it, as by too strong a beverage; they
become so intoxicated that they go breaking their limbs on all the wrong
roads where their drunkenness drives them.


                                  29.

_Adventitious Liars._—When people began to combat the unity of Aristotle
in France, and consequently also to defend it, there was once more to be
seen that which has been seen so often, but seen so unwillingly:—_people
imposed false reasons on themselves_ on account of which those laws
ought to exist, merely for the sake of not acknowledging to themselves
that they had _accustomed_ themselves to the authority of those laws,
and did not want any longer to have things otherwise. And people do so
in every prevailing morality and religion, and have always done so: the
reasons and intentions behind the habit, are only added surreptitiously
when people begin to combat the habit, and _ask_ for reasons and
intentions. It is here that the great dishonesty of the conservatives of
all times hides:—they are adventitious liars.


                                  30.

_The Comedy of Celebrated Men._—Celebrated men who _need_ their fame,
as, for instance, all politicians, no longer select their associates and
friends without after-thoughts: from the one they want a portion of the
splendour and reflection of his virtues; from the other they want the
fear-inspiring power of certain dubious qualities in him, of which
everybody is aware; from another they steal his reputation for idleness
and basking in the sun, because it is advantageous for their own ends to
be regarded temporarily as heedless and lazy:—it conceals the fact that
they lie in ambush; they now use the visionaries, now the experts, now
the brooders, now the pedants in their neighbourhood, as their actual
selves for the time, but very soon they do not need them any longer! And
thus while their environment and outside die off continually, everything
seems to crowd into this environment, and wants to become a "character"
of it; they are like great cities in this respect. Their repute is
continually in process of mutation, like their character, for their
changing methods require this change, and they show and _exhibit_
sometimes this and sometimes that actual or fictitious quality on the
stage; their friends and associates, as we have said, belong to these
stage properties. On the other hand, that which they aim at must remain
so much the more steadfast, and burnished and resplendent in the
distance,—and this also sometimes needs its comedy and its stage-play.


                                  31.

_Commerce and Nobility._—Buying and selling is now regarded as something
ordinary, like the art of reading and writing; everyone is now trained
to it even when he is not a tradesman, exercising himself daily in the
art; precisely as formerly in the period of uncivilised humanity,
everyone was a hunter and exercised himself day by day in the art of
hunting. Hunting was then something common: but just as this finally
became a privilege of the powerful and noble, and thereby lost the
character of the commonplace and the ordinary—by ceasing to be necessary
and by becoming an affair of fancy and luxury:—so it might become the
same some day with buying and selling. Conditions of society are
imaginable in which there will be no selling and buying, and in which
the necessity for this art will become quite lost; perhaps it may then
happen that individuals who are less subjected to the law of the
prevailing condition of things will indulge in buying and selling as a
_luxury of sentiment_. It is then only that commerce would acquire
nobility, and the noble would then perhaps occupy themselves just as
readily with commerce as they have done hitherto with war and politics:
while on the other hand the valuation of politics might then have
entirely altered. Already even politics ceases to be the business of a
gentleman; and it is possible that one day it may be found to be so
vulgar as to be brought, like all party literature and daily literature,
under the rubric: "Prostitution of the intellect."


                                  32.

_Undesirable Disciples._—What shall I do with these two youths! called
out a philosopher dejectedly, who "corrupted" youths, as Socrates had
once corrupted them,—they are unwelcome disciples to me. One of them
cannot say "Nay," and the other says "Half and half" to everything.
Provided they grasped my doctrine, the former would _suffer_ too much,
for my mode of thinking requires a martial soul, willingness to cause
pain, delight in denying, and a hard skin,—he would succumb by open
wounds and internal injuries. And the other will choose the mediocre in
everything he represents, and thus make a mediocrity of the whole,—I
should like my enemy to have such a disciple.


                                  33.

_Outside the Lecture-room._—"In order to prove that man after all
belongs to the good-natured animals, I would remind you how credulous he
has been for so long a time. It is now only, quite late, and after an
immense self-conquest, that he has become a _distrustful_ animal,—yes!
man is now more wicked than ever."—I do not understand this; why should
man now be more distrustful and more wicked?—"Because he now has
science,—because he needs to have it!"—


                                  34.

_Historia abscondita._—Every great man has a power which operates
backward; all history is again placed on the scales on his account, and
a thousand secrets of the past crawl out of their lurking-places—into
_his_ sunlight. There is absolutely no knowing what history may be some
day. The past is still perhaps undiscovered in its essence! There are
yet so many retroactive powers needed!


                                  35.

_Heresy and Witchcraft._—To think otherwise than is customary—that is by
no means so much the activity of a better intellect, as the activity of
strong, wicked inclinations,—severing, isolating, refractory,
mischief-loving, malicious inclinations. Heresy is the counterpart of
witchcraft, and is certainly just as little a merely harmless affair, or
a thing worthy of honour in itself. Heretics and sorcerers are two kinds
of bad men; they have it in common that they also feel themselves
wicked; their unconquerable delight is to attack and injure whatever
rules,—whether it be men or opinions. The Reformation, a kind of
duplication of the spirit of the Middle Ages at a time when it had no
longer a good conscience, produced both of these kinds of people in the
greatest profusion.


                                  36.

_Last Words._—It will be recollected that the Emperor Augustus, that
terrible man, who had himself as much in his own power, and who could be
silent as well as any wise Socrates, became indiscreet about himself in
his last words; for the first time he let his mask fall, when he gave to
understand that he had carried a mask and played a comedy,—he had played
the father of his country and wisdom on the throne well, even to the
point of illusion! _Plaudite amici, comoedia finita est!_—The thought of
the dying Nero: _qualis artifex pereo!_ was also the thought of the
dying Augustus: histrionic conceit! histrionic loquacity! And the very
counterpart to the dying Socrates!—But Tiberius died silently, that most
tortured of all self-torturers,—_he_ was _genuine_ and not a
stage-player! What may have passed through his head in the end! Perhaps
this: "Life—that is a long death. I am a fool, who shortened the lives
of so many! Was _I_ created for the purpose of being a benefactor? I
should have given them eternal life: and then I could have _seen them
dying_ eternally. I had such good eyes _for that_: _qualis spectator
pereo!_" When he seemed once more to regain his powers after a long
death-struggle, it was considered advisable to smother him with
pillows,—he died a double death.


                                  37.

_Owing to three Errors._—Science has been furthered during recent
centuries, partly because it was hoped that God's goodness and wisdom
would be best understood therewith and thereby—the principal motive in
the soul of great Englishmen (like Newton); partly because the absolute
utility of knowledge was believed in, and especially the most intimate
connection of morality, knowledge, and happiness—the principal motive in
the soul of great Frenchmen (like Voltaire); and partly because it was
thought that in science there was something unselfish, harmless,
self-sufficing, lovable, and truly innocent to be had, in which the evil
human impulses did not at all participate—the principal motive in the
soul of Spinoza, who felt himself divine, as a knowing being:—it is
consequently owing to three errors that science has been furthered.


                                  38.

_Explosive People._—When one considers how ready are the forces of young
men for discharge, one does not wonder at seeing them decide so
unfastidiously and with so little selection for this or that cause:
_that_ which attracts them is the sight of eagerness about any cause, as
it were the sight of the burning match—not the cause itself. The more
ingenious seducers on that account operate by holding out the prospect
of an explosion to such persons, and do not urge their cause by means of
reasons; these powder-barrels are not won over by means of reasons!


                                  39.

_Altered Taste._—The alteration of the general taste is more important
than the alteration of opinions; opinions, with all their proving,
refuting, and intellectual masquerade, are merely symptoms of altered
taste, and are certainly _not_ what they are still so often claimed to
be, the causes of the altered taste. How does the general taste alter?
By the fact of individuals, the powerful and influential persons,
expressing and tyrannically enforcing without any feeling of shame,
_their_ _hoc est ridiculum, hoc est absurdum_; the decisions, therefore,
of their taste and their disrelish:—they thereby lay a constraint upon
many people, out of which there gradually grows a habituation for still
more, and finally a _necessity for all_. The fact, however, that these
individuals feel and "taste" differently, has usually its origin in a
peculiarity of their mode of life, nourishment, or digestion, perhaps in
a surplus or deficiency of the inorganic salts in their blood and brain,
in short in their _physis_; they have, however, the courage to avow
their physical constitution, and to lend an ear even to the most
delicate tones of its requirements: their æsthetic and moral judgments
are those "most delicate tones" of their _physis_.


                                  40.

_The Lack of a noble Presence._—Soldiers and their leaders have always a
much higher mode of comportment toward one another than workmen and
their employers. At present at least, all militarily established
civilisation still stands high above all so-called industrial
civilisation; the latter, in its present form, is in general the meanest
mode of existence that has ever been. It is simply the law of necessity
that operates here: people want to live, and have to sell themselves;
but they despise him who exploits their necessity, and _purchases_ the
workman. It is curious that the subjection to powerful, fear-inspiring,
and even dreadful individuals, to tyrants and leaders of armies, is not
at all felt so painfully as the subjection to such undistinguished and
uninteresting persons as the captains of industry; in the employer the
workman usually sees merely a crafty, blood-sucking dog of a man,
speculating on every necessity, whose name, form, character, and
reputation are altogether indifferent to him. It is probable that the
manufacturers and great magnates of commerce have hitherto lacked too
much all those forms and attributes of a _superior race_, which alone
make persons interesting; if they had had the nobility of the nobly-born
in their looks and bearing, there would perhaps have been no socialism
in the masses of the people. For these are really ready for _slavery_ of
every kind, provided that the superior class above them constantly shows
itself legitimately superior, and _born_ to command—by its noble
presence! The commonest man feels that nobility is not to be improvised,
and that it is his part to honour it as the fruit of protracted
race-culture,—but the absence of superior presence, and the notorious
vulgarity of manufacturers with red, fat hands, brings up the thought to
him that it is only chance and fortune that has here elevated the one
above the other; well then—so he reasons with himself—let _us_ in our
turn tempt chance and fortune! Let us in our turn throw the dice!—and
socialism commences.


                                  41.

_Against Remorse._—The thinker sees in his own actions attempts and
questionings to obtain information about something or other; success and
failure are _answers_ to him first and foremost. To vex himself,
however, because something does not succeed, or to feel remorse at
all—he leaves that to those who act because they are commanded to do so,
and expect to get a beating when their gracious master is not satisfied
with the result.


                                  42.

_Work and Ennui._—In respect to seeking work for the sake of the pay,
almost all men are alike at present in civilised countries; to all of
them work is a means, and not itself the end; on which account they are
not very select in the choice of the work, provided it yields an
abundant profit. But still there are rarer men who would rather perish
than work without _delight_ in their labour: the fastidious people,
difficult to satisfy, whose object is not served by an abundant profit,
unless the work itself be the reward of all rewards. Artists and
contemplative men of all kinds belong to this rare species of human
beings; and also the idlers who spend their life in hunting and
travelling, or in love affairs and adventures. They all seek toil and
trouble in so far as these are associated with pleasure, and they want
the severest and hardest labour, if it be necessary. In other respects,
however, they have a resolute indolence, even should impoverishment,
dishonour, and danger to health and life be associated therewith. They
are not so much afraid of ennui as of labour without pleasure; indeed
they require much ennui, if _their_ work is to succeed with them. For
the thinker and for all inventive spirits ennui is the unpleasant "calm"
of the soul which precedes the happy voyage and the dancing breezes; he
must endure it, he must _await_ the effect it has on him:—it is
precisely _this_ which lesser natures cannot at all experience! It is
common to scare away ennui in every way, just as it is common to labour
without pleasure. It perhaps distinguishes the Asiatics above the
Europeans, that they are capable of a longer and profounder repose; even
their narcotics operate slowly and require patience, in contrast to the
obnoxious suddenness of the European poison, alcohol.


                                  43.

_What the Laws Betray._—One makes a great mistake when one studies the
penal laws of a people, as if they were an expression of its character;
the laws do not betray what a people is, but what appears to them
foreign, strange, monstrous, and outlandish. The laws concern themselves
with the exceptions to the morality of custom; and the severest
punishments fall on acts which conform to the customs of the
neighbouring peoples. Thus among the Wahabites, there are only two
mortal sins: having another God than the Wahabite God, and—smoking (it
is designated by them as "the disgraceful kind of drinking"). "And how
is it with regard to murder and adultery?"—asked the Englishman with
astonishment on learning these things. "Well, God is gracious and
pitiful!" answered the old chief.—Thus among the ancient Romans there
was the idea that a woman could only sin mortally in two ways: by
adultery on the one hand, and—by wine-drinking on the other. Old Cato
pretended that kissing among relatives had only been made a custom in
order to keep women in control on this point; a kiss meant: did her
breath smell of wine? Wives had actually been punished by death who were
surprised taking wine: and certainly not merely because women under the
influence of wine sometimes unlearn altogether the art of saying No; the
Romans were afraid above all things of the orgiastic and Dionysian
spirit with which the women of Southern Europe at that time (when wine
was still new in Europe) were sometimes visited, as by a monstrous
foreignness which subverted the basis of Roman sentiments; it seemed to
them treason against Rome, as the embodiment of foreignness.


                                  44.

_The Believed Motive._—However important it may be to know the motives
according to which mankind has really acted hitherto, perhaps the
_belief_ in this or that motive, and therefore that which mankind has
assumed and imagined to be the actual mainspring of its activity
hitherto, is something still more essential for the thinker to know. For
the internal happiness and misery of men have always come to them
through their belief in this or that motive,—_not_ however, through that
which was actually the motive! All about the latter has an interest of
secondary rank.


                                  45.

_Epicurus._—Yes, I am proud of perceiving the character of Epicurus
differently from anyone else perhaps, and of enjoying the happiness of
the afternoon of antiquity in all that I hear and read of him:—I see his
eye gazing out on a broad whitish sea, over the shore-rocks on which the
sunshine rests, while great and small creatures play in its light,
secure and calm like this light and that eye itself. Such happiness
could only have been devised by a chronic sufferer, the happiness of an
eye before which the sea of existence has become calm, and which can no
longer tire of gazing at the surface and at the variegated, tender,
tremulous skin of this sea. Never previously was there such a moderation
of voluptuousness.


                                  46.

_Our Astonishment._—There is a profound and fundamental satisfaction in
the fact that science ascertains things that _hold their ground_, and
again furnish the basis for new researches:—it could certainly be
otherwise. Indeed, we are so much convinced of all the uncertainty and
caprice of our judgments, and of the everlasting change of all human
laws and conceptions, that we are really astonished _how persistently_
the results of science hold their ground! In earlier times people knew
nothing of this changeability of all human things; the custom of
morality maintained the belief that the whole inner life of man was
bound to iron necessity by eternal fetters:—perhaps people then felt a
similar voluptuousness of astonishment when they listened to tales and
fairy stories. The wonderful did so much good to those men, who might
well get tired sometimes of the regular and the eternal. To leave the
ground for once! To soar! To stray! To be mad!—that belonged to the
paradise and the revelry of earlier times; while our felicity is like
that of the shipwrecked man who has gone ashore, and places himself with
both feet on the old, firm ground—in astonishment that it does not rock.


                                  47.

_The Suppression of the Passions._—When one continually prohibits the
expression of the passions as something to be left to the "vulgar," to
coarser, bourgeois, and peasant natures—that is, when one does not want
to suppress the passions themselves, but only their language and
demeanour, one nevertheless realises _therewith_ just what one does not
want: the suppression of the passions themselves, or at least their
weakening and alteration,—as the court of Louis XIV. (to cite the most
instructive instance), and all that was dependent on it, experienced.
The generation _that followed_, trained in suppressing their expression,
no longer possessed the passions themselves, but had a pleasant,
superficial, playful disposition in their place,—a generation which was
so permeated with the incapacity to be ill-mannered, that even an injury
was not taken and retaliated, except with courteous words. Perhaps our
own time furnishes the most remarkable counterpart to this period: I see
everywhere (in life, in the theatre, and not least in all that is
written) satisfaction at all the _coarser_ outbursts and gestures of
passion; a certain convention of passionateness is now desired,—only not
the passion itself! Nevertheless _it_ will thereby be at last reached,
and our posterity will have a _genuine savagery_, and not merely a
formal savagery and unmannerliness.


                                  48.

_Knowledge of Distress._—Perhaps there is nothing by which men and
periods are so much separated from one another, as by the different
degrees of knowledge of distress which they possess; distress of the
soul as well as of the body. With respect to the latter, owing to lack
of sufficient self-experience, we men of the present day (in spite of
our deficiencies and infirmities), are perhaps all of us blunderers and
visionaries in comparison with the men of the age of fear—the longest of
all ages,—when the individual had to protect himself against violence,
and for that purpose had to be a man of violence himself. At that time a
man went through a long schooling of corporeal tortures and privations,
and found even in a certain kind of cruelty toward himself, in a
voluntary use of pain, a necessary means for his preservation; at that
time a person trained his environment to the endurance of pain; at that
time a person willingly inflicted pain, and saw the most frightful
things of this kind happen to others, without having any other feeling
than for his own security. As regards the distress of the soul, however,
I now look at every man with respect to whether he knows it by
experience or by description; whether he still regards it as necessary
to simulate this knowledge, perhaps as an indication of more refined
culture; or whether, at the bottom of his heart, he does not at all
believe in great sorrows of soul, and at the naming of them has in his
mind a similar experience as at the naming of great corporeal
sufferings, such as tooth-aches, and stomach-aches. It is thus, however,
that it seems to be with most people at present. Owing to the universal
inexperience of both kinds of pain, and the comparative rarity of the
spectacle of a sufferer, an important consequence results: people now
hate pain far more than earlier man did, and calumniate it worse than
ever; indeed people nowadays can hardly endure the _thought_ of pain,
and make out of it an affair of conscience and a reproach to collective
existence. The appearance of pessimistic philosophies is not at all the
sign of great and dreadful miseries; for these interrogative marks
regarding the worth of life appear in periods when the refinement and
alleviation of existence already deem the unavoidable gnat-stings of the
soul and body as altogether too bloody and wicked; and in the poverty of
actual experiences of pain, would now like to make _painful general
ideas_ appear as suffering of the worst kind.—There might indeed be a
remedy for pessimistic philosophies and the excessive sensibility which
seems to me the real "distress of the present":—but perhaps this remedy
already sounds too cruel, and would itself be reckoned among the
symptoms owing to which people at present conclude that "existence is
something evil." Well! the remedy for "the distress" is _distress_.


                                  49.

_Magnanimity and allied Qualities._—Those paradoxical phenomena, such as
the sudden coldness in the demeanour of good-natured men, the humour of
the melancholy, and above all _magnanimity_, as a sudden renunciation of
revenge or of the gratification of envy—appear in men in whom there is a
powerful inner impulsiveness, in men of sudden satiety and sudden
disgust. Their satisfactions are so rapid and violent that satiety,
aversion, and flight into the antithetical taste, immediately follow
upon them: in this contrast the convulsion of feeling liberates itself,
in one person by sudden coldness, in another by laughter, and in a third
by tears and self-sacrifice. The magnanimous person appears to me—at
least that kind of magnanimous person who has always made most
impression—as a man with the strongest thirst for vengeance, to whom a
gratification presents itself close at hand, and who _already_ drinks it
off _in imagination_ so copiously, thoroughly, and to the last drop,
that an excessive, rapid disgust follows this rapid licentiousness;—he
now elevates himself "above himself," as one says, and forgives his
enemy, yea, blesses and honours him. With this violence done to himself,
however, with this mockery of his impulse to revenge, even still so
powerful, he merely yields to the new impulse, the disgust which has
become powerful, and does this just as impatiently and licentiously, as
a short time previously he _forestalled_, and as it were exhausted, the
joy of revenge with his fantasy. In magnanimity there is the same amount
of egoism as in revenge, but a different quality of egoism.


                                  50.

_The Argument of Isolation._—The reproach of conscience, even in the
most conscientious, is weak against the feeling: "This and that are
contrary to the good morals of _your_ society." A cold glance or a wry
mouth, on the part of those among whom and for whom one has been
educated, is still _feared_ even by the strongest. What is really feared
there? Isolation! as the argument which demolishes even the best
arguments for a person or cause!—It is thus that the gregarious instinct
speaks in us.


                                  51.

_Sense for Truth._—Commend me to all scepticism where I am permitted to
answer: "Let us put it to the test!" But I don't wish to hear anything
more of things and questions which do not admit of being tested. That is
the limit of my "sense for truth": for bravery has there lost its right.


                                  52.

_What others Know of us._—That which we know of ourselves and have in
our memory is not so decisive for the happiness of our life as is
generally believed. One day it flashes upon our mind what _others_ know
of us (or think they know)—and then we acknowledge that it is the more
powerful. We get on with our bad conscience more easily than with our
bad reputation.


                                  53.

_Where Goodness Begins._—Where bad eyesight can no longer see the evil
impulse as such, on account of its refinement,—there man sets up the
kingdom of goodness; and the feeling of having now gone over into the
kingdom of goodness brings all those impulses (such as the feelings of
security, of comfortableness, of benevolence) into simultaneous
activity, which were threatened and confined by the evil impulses.
Consequently, the duller the eye so much the further does goodness
extend! Hence the eternal cheerfulness of the populace and of children!
Hence the gloominess and grief (allied to the bad conscience) of great
thinkers.


                                  54.

_The Consciousness of Appearance._—How wonderfully and novelly, and at
the same time how awfully and ironically, do I feel myself situated with
respect to collective existence, with my knowledge! I have _discovered_
for myself that the old humanity and animality, yea, the collective
primeval age, and the past of all sentient being, continues to meditate,
love, hate, and reason in me,—I have suddenly awoke in the midst of this
dream, but merely to the consciousness that I just dream, and that I
_must_ dream on in order not to perish; just as the sleep-walker must
dream on in order not to tumble down. What is it that is now
"appearance" to me! Verily, not the antithesis of any kind of
essence,—what knowledge can I assert of any kind of essence whatsoever,
except merely the predicates of its appearance! Verily not a dead mask
which one could put upon an unknown X, and which to be sure one could
also remove! Appearance is for me the operating and living thing itself;
which goes so far in its self-mockery as to make me feel that here there
is appearance, and Will o' the Wisp, and spirit-dance, and nothing
more,—that among all these dreamers, I also, the "thinker," dance my
dance, that the thinker is a means of prolonging further the terrestrial
dance, and in so far is one of the masters of ceremony of existence, and
that the sublime consistency and connectedness of all branches of
knowledge is perhaps, and will perhaps, be the best means for
_maintaining_ the universality of the dreaming, the complete, mutual
understandability of all those dreamers, and thereby _the duration of
the dream_.


                                  55.

_The Ultimate Nobility of Character._—What then makes a person "noble"?
Certainly not that he makes sacrifices; even the frantic libertine makes
sacrifices. Certainly not that he generally follows his passions; there
are contemptible passions. Certainly not that he does something for
others and without selfishness; perhaps the effect of selfishness is
precisely at its greatest in the noblest persons.—But that the passion
which seizes the noble man is a peculiarity, without his knowing that it
is so: the use of a rare and singular measuring-rod, almost a frenzy:
the feeling of heat in things which feel cold to all other persons: a
divining of values for which scales have not yet been invented: a
sacrificing on altars which are consecrated to an unknown God: a bravery
without the desire for honour: a self-sufficiency which has
superabundance, and imparts to men and things. Hitherto, therefore, it
has been the rare in man, and the unconsciousness of this rareness, that
has made men noble. Here, however, let us consider that everything
ordinary, immediate, and indispensable, in short, what has been most
preservative of the species, and generally the _rule_ in mankind
hitherto, has been judged unreasonable and calumniated in its entirety
by this standard, in favour of the exceptions. To become the advocate of
the rule—that may perhaps be the ultimate form and refinement in which
nobility of character will reveal itself on earth.


                                  56.

_The Desire for Suffering._—When I think of the desire to do something,
how it continually tickles and stimulates millions of young Europeans,
who cannot endure themselves and all their ennui,—I conceive that there
must be a desire in them to suffer something, in order to derive from
their suffering a worthy motive for acting, for doing something.
Distress is necessary! Hence the cry of the politicians, hence the many
false, trumped-up, exaggerated "states of distress" of all possible
kinds, and the blind readiness to believe in them. This young world
desires that there should arrive or appear _from the outside_—not
happiness—but misfortune; and their imagination is already busy
beforehand to form a monster out of it, so that they may afterwards be
able to fight with a monster. If these distress-seekers felt the power
to benefit themselves, to do something for themselves from internal
sources, they would also understand how to create a distress of their
own, specially their own, from internal sources. Their inventions might
then be more refined, and their gratifications might sound like good
music: while at present they fill the world with their cries of
distress, and consequently too often with the _feeling of distress_ in
the first place! They do not know what to make of themselves—and so they
paint the misfortune of others on the wall; they always need others! And
always again other others!—Pardon me, my friends, I have ventured to
paint my _happiness_ on the wall.

-----

Footnote 7:

  Allusions to the song of Clara in Goethe's "Egmont."—TR.




                              BOOK SECOND


                                  57.

_To the Realists._—Ye sober beings, who feel yourselves armed against
passion and fantasy, and would gladly make a pride and an ornament out
of your emptiness, ye call yourselves realists and give to understand
that the world is actually constituted as it appears to you; before you
alone reality stands unveiled, and ye yourselves would perhaps be the
best part of it,—oh, ye dear images of Sais! But are not ye also in your
unveiled condition still extremely passionate and dusky beings compared
with the fish, and still all too like an enamoured artist?[8]—and what
is "reality" to an enamoured artist! Ye still carry about with you the
valuations of things which had their origin in the passions and
infatuations of earlier centuries! There is still a secret and
ineffaceable drunkenness embodied in your sobriety! Your love of
"reality," for example—oh, that is an old, primitive "love"! In every
feeling, in every sense-impression, there is a portion of this old love:
and similarly also some kind of fantasy, prejudice, irrationality,
ignorance, fear, and whatever else has become mingled and woven into it.
There is that mountain! There is that cloud! What is "real" in them?
Remove the phantasm and the whole human _element_ therefrom, ye sober
ones! Yes, if ye could do _that_! If ye could forget your origin, your
past, your preparatory schooling,—your whole history as man and beast!
There is no "reality" for us—nor for you either, ye sober ones,—we are
far from being so alien to one another as ye suppose, and perhaps our
good-will to get beyond drunkenness is just as respectable as your
belief that ye are altogether _incapable_ of drunkenness.


                                  58.

_Only as Creators!_—It has caused me the greatest trouble, and for ever
causes me the greatest trouble, to perceive that unspeakably more
depends upon _what things are called_, than on what they are. The
reputation, the name and appearance, the importance, the usual measure
and weight of things—each being in origin most frequently an error and
arbitrariness thrown over the things like a garment, and quite alien to
their essence and even to their exterior—have gradually, by the belief
therein and its continuous growth from generation to generation, grown
as it were on-and-into things and become their very body; the appearance
at the very beginning becomes almost always the essence in the end, and
_operates_ as the essence! What a fool he would be who would think it
enough to refer here to this origin and this nebulous veil of illusion,
in order to _annihilate_ that which virtually passes for the
world—namely, so-called "reality"! It is only as creators that we can
annihilate!—But let us not forget this: it suffices to create new names
and valuations and probabilities, in order in the long run to create new
"things."


                                  59.

_We Artists!_—When we love a woman we have readily a hatred against
nature, on recollecting all the disagreeable natural functions to which
every woman is subject; we prefer not to think of them at all, but if
once our soul touches on these things it twitches impatiently, and
glances, as we have said, contemptuously at nature:—we are hurt; nature
seems to encroach upon our possessions, and with the profanest hands. We
then shut our ears against all physiology, and we decree in secret that
"we will hear nothing of the fact that man is something else than _soul
and form_!" "The man under the skin" is an abomination and monstrosity,
a blasphemy of God and of love to all lovers.—Well, just as the lover
still feels with respect to nature and natural functions, so did every
worshipper of God and his "holy omnipotence" formerly feel: in all that
was said of nature by astronomers, geologists, physiologists, and
physicians, he saw an encroachment on his most precious possession, and
consequently an attack,—and moreover also an impertinence of the
assailant! The "law of nature" sounded to him as blasphemy against God;
in truth he would too willingly have seen the whole of mechanics traced
back to moral acts of volition and arbitrariness:—but because nobody
could render him this service, he _concealed_ nature and mechanism from
himself as best he could, and lived in a dream. Oh, those men of former
times understood how to _dream_, and did not need first to go to
sleep!—and we men of the present day also still understand it too well,
with all our good-will for wakefulness and daylight! It suffices to
love, to hate, to desire, and in general to feel,—_immediately_ the
spirit and the power of the dream come over us, and we ascend, with open
eyes and indifferent to all danger, the most dangerous paths, to the
roofs and towers of fantasy, and without any giddiness, as persons born
for climbing—we the night-walkers by day! We artists! We concealers of
naturalness! We moon-struck and God-struck ones! We dead-silent,
untiring wanderers on heights which we do not see as heights, but as our
plains, as our places of safety!


                                  60.

_Women and their Effect in the Distance._—Have I still ears? Am I only
ear, and nothing else besides? Here I stand in the midst of the surging
of the breakers, whose white flames fork up to my feet;—from all sides
there is howling, threatening, crying, and screaming at me, while in the
lowest depths the old earth-shaker sings his aria, hollow like a roaring
bull; he beats such an earth-shaker's measure thereto, that even the
hearts of these weathered rock-monsters tremble at the sound. Then,
suddenly, as if born out of nothingness, there appears before the portal
of this hellish labyrinth, only a few fathoms distant,—a great
sailing-ship gliding silently along like a ghost. Oh, this ghostly
beauty! With what enchantment it seizes me! What? Has all the repose and
silence in the world embarked here? Does my happiness itself sit in this
quiet place, my happier ego, my second immortalised self? Still not
dead, yet also no longer living? As a ghost-like, calm, gazing, gliding,
sweeping, neutral being? Similar to the ship, which, with its white
sails, like an immense butterfly, passes over the dark sea! Yes! Passing
_over_ existence! That is it! That would be it!——It seems that the noise
here has made me a visionary? All great noise causes one to place
happiness in the calm and the distance. When a man is in the midst of
_his_ hubbub, in the midst of the breakers of his plots and plans, he
there sees perhaps calm, enchanting beings glide past him, for whose
happiness and retirement he longs—_they are women_. He almost thinks
that there with the women dwells his better self; that in these calm
places even the loudest breakers become still as death, and life itself
a dream of life. But still! But still! My noble enthusiast, there is
also in the most beautiful sailing-ship so much noise and bustling, and
alas, so much petty, pitiable bustling! The enchantment and the most
powerful effect of women is, to use the language of philosophers, an
effect at a distance, an _actio in distans_; there belongs thereto,
however, primarily and above all,—_distance_!


                                  61.

_In Honour of Friendship._—That the sentiment of friendship was regarded
by antiquity as the highest sentiment, higher even than the most vaunted
pride of the self-sufficient and wise, yea as it were its sole and still
holier brotherhood, is very well expressed by the story of the
Macedonian king who made the present of a talent to a cynical Athenian
philosopher from whom he received it back again. "What?" said the king,
"has he then no friend?" He therewith meant to say, "I honour this pride
of the wise and independent man, but I should have honoured his humanity
still higher if the friend in him had gained the victory over his pride.
The philosopher has lowered himself in my estimation, for he showed that
he did not know one of the two highest sentiments—and in fact the higher
of them!"


                                  62.

_Love._—Love pardons even the passion of the beloved.


                                  63.

_Woman in Music._—How does it happen that warm and rainy winds bring the
musical mood and the inventive delight in melody with them? Are they not
the same winds that fill the churches and give women amorous thoughts?


                                  64.

_Sceptics._—I fear women who have become old are more sceptical in the
secret recesses of their hearts than any of the men are; they believe in
the superficiality of existence as in its essence, and all virtue and
profundity is to them only the disguising of this "truth," the very
desirable disguising of a _pudendum_,—an affair, therefore, of decency
and of modesty, and nothing more!


                                  65.

_Devotedness._—There are noble women with a certain poverty of spirit,
who, in order to _express_ their profoundest devotedness, have no other
alternative but to offer their virtue and modesty: it is the highest
thing they have. And this present is often accepted without putting the
recipient under such deep obligation as the giver supposed,—a very
melancholy story!


                                  66.

_The Strength of the Weak._—Women are all skilful in exaggerating their
weaknesses, indeed they are inventive in weaknesses, so as to seem quite
fragile ornaments to which even a grain of dust does harm; their
existence is meant to bring home to man's mind his coarseness, and to
appeal to his conscience. They thus defend themselves against the strong
and all "rights of might."


                                  67.

_Self-dissembling._—She loves him now and has since been looking forth
with as quiet confidence as a cow; but alas! It was precisely his
delight that she seemed so fitful and absolutely incomprehensible! He
had rather too much steady weather in himself already! Would she not do
well to feign her old character? to feign indifference? Does not—love
itself advise her _to do so_? _Vivat comœdia!_


                                  68.

_Will and Willingness._—Some one brought a youth to a wise man and said,
"See, this is one who is being corrupted by women!" The wise man shook
his head and smiled. "It is men," he called out, "who corrupt women; and
everything that women lack should be atoned for and improved in men,—for
man creates for himself the ideal of woman, and woman moulds herself
according to this ideal."—"You are too tender-hearted towards women,"
said one of the bystanders, "you do not know them!" The wise man
answered: "Man's attribute is will, woman's attribute is
willingness,—such is the law of the sexes, verily! a hard law for woman!
All human beings are innocent of their existence, women, however, are
doubly innocent; who could have enough of salve and gentleness for
them!"—"What about salve! What about gentleness!" called out another
person in the crowd, "we must educate women better!"—"We must educate
men better," said the wise man, and made a sign to the youth to follow
him.—The youth, however, did not follow him.


                                  69.

_Capacity for Revenge._—That a person cannot and consequently will not
defend himself, does not yet cast disgrace upon him in our eyes; but we
despise the person who has neither the ability nor the good-will for
revenge—whether it be a man or a woman. Would a woman be able to
captivate us (or, as people say, to "fetter" us) whom we did not credit
with knowing how to employ the dagger (any kind of dagger) skilfully
_against us_ under certain circumstances? Or against herself; which in a
certain case might be the severest revenge (the Chinese revenge).


                                  70.

_The Mistresses of the Masters._—A powerful contralto voice, as we
occasionally hear it in the theatre, raises suddenly for us the curtain
on possibilities in which we usually do not believe; all at once we are
convinced that somewhere in the world there may be women with high,
heroic, royal souls, capable and prepared for magnificent remonstrances,
resolutions, and self-sacrifices, capable and prepared for domination
over men, because in them the best in man, superior to sex, has become a
corporeal ideal. To be sure, it is not the intention of the theatre that
such voices should give such a conception of women; they are usually
intended to represent the ideal male lover, for example, a Romeo; but,
to judge by my experience, the theatre regularly miscalculates here, and
the musician also, who expects such effects from such a voice. People do
not believe in _these_ lovers; these voices still contain a tinge of the
motherly and housewifely character, and most of all when love is in
their tone.


                                  71.

_On Female Chastity._—There is something quite astonishing and
extraordinary in the education of women of the higher class; indeed,
there is perhaps nothing more paradoxical. All the world is agreed to
educate them with as much ignorance as possible _in eroticis_, and to
inspire their soul with a profound shame of such things, and the
extremest impatience and horror at the suggestion of them. It is really
here only that all the "honour" of woman is at stake; what would one not
forgive them in other respects! But here they are intended to remain
ignorant to the very backbone:—they are intended to have neither eyes,
ears, words, nor thoughts for this, their "wickedness"; indeed knowledge
here is already evil. And then! To be hurled as with an awful
thunderbolt into reality and knowledge with marriage—and indeed by him
whom they most love and esteem: to have to encounter love and shame in
contradiction, yea, to have to feel rapture, abandonment, duty,
sympathy, and fright at the unexpected proximity of God and animal, and
whatever else besides! all at once!—There, in fact, a psychic
entanglement has been effected which is quite unequalled! Even the
sympathetic curiosity of the wisest discerner of men does not suffice to
divine how this or that woman gets along with the solution of this
enigma and the enigma of this solution; what dreadful, far-reaching
suspicions must awaken thereby in the poor unhinged soul; and forsooth,
how the ultimate philosophy and scepticism of the woman casts anchor at
this point!—Afterwards the same profound silence as before: and often
even a silence to herself, a shutting of her eyes to herself.—Young
wives on that account make great efforts to appear superficial and
thoughtless; the most ingenious of them simulate a kind of
impudence.—Wives easily feel their husbands as a question-mark to their
honour, and their children as an apology or atonement,—they require
children, and wish for them in quite another spirit than a husband
wishes for them.—In short, one cannot be gentle enough towards women!


                                  72.

_Mothers._—Animals think differently from men with respect to females;
with them the female is regarded as the productive being. There is no
paternal love among them, but there is such a thing as love of the
children of a beloved, and habituation to them. In the young, the
females find gratification for their lust of dominion; the young are a
property, an occupation, something quite comprehensible to them, with
which they can chatter: all this conjointly is maternal love,—it is to
be compared to the love of the artist for his work. Pregnancy has made
the females gentler, more expectant, more timid, more submissively
inclined; and similarly intellectual pregnancy engenders the character
of the contemplative, who are allied to women in character:—they are the
masculine mothers.—Among animals the masculine sex is regarded as the
beautiful sex.


                                  73.

_Saintly Cruelty._—A man holding a newly born child in his hands came to
a saint. "What should I do with the child," he asked, "it is wretched,
deformed, and has not even enough of life to die." "Kill it," cried the
saint with a dreadful voice, "kill it, and then hold it in thy arms for
three days and three nights to brand it on thy memory:—thus wilt thou
never again beget a child when it is not the time for thee to
beget."—When the man had heard this he went away disappointed; and many
found fault with the saint because he had advised cruelty, for he had
advised to kill the child. "But is it not more cruel to let it live?"
asked the saint.


                                  74.

_The Unsuccessful._—Those poor women always fail of success who become
agitated and uncertain, and talk too much in presence of him whom they
love; for men are most successfully seduced by a certain subtle and
phlegmatic tenderness.


                                  75.

_The Third Sex._—"A small man is a paradox, but still a man,—but the
small woman seems to me to be of another sex in comparison with
well-grown ones"—said an old dancing-master. A small woman is never
beautiful—said old Aristotle.


                                  76.

_The greatest Danger._—Had there not at all times been a larger number
of men who regarded the cultivation of their mind—their "rationality"—as
their pride, their obligation, their virtue, and were injured or shamed
by all play of fancy and extravagance of thinking—as lovers of "sound
common sense":—mankind would long ago have perished! Incipient
_insanity_ has hovered, and hovers continually over mankind as its
greatest danger: that is precisely the breaking out of inclination in
feeling, seeing, and hearing; the enjoyment of the unruliness of the
mind; the delight in human unreason. It is not truth and certainty that
is the antithesis of the world of the insane, but the universality and
all-obligatoriness of a belief, in short, non-voluntariness in forming
opinions. And the greatest labour of human beings hitherto has been to
agree with one another regarding a great many things, and to impose upon
themselves a _law of agreement_—indifferent whether these things are
true or false. This is the discipline of the mind which has preserved
mankind;—but the counter-impulses are still so powerful that one can
really speak of the future of mankind with little confidence. The ideas
of things still continually shift and move, and will perhaps alter more
than ever in the future; it is continually the most select spirits
themselves who strive against universal obligatoriness—the investigators
of _truth_ above all! The accepted belief, as the belief of all the
world, continually engenders a disgust and a new longing in the more
ingenious minds; and already the slow _tempo_ which it demands for all
intellectual processes (the imitation of the tortoise, which is here
recognised as the rule) makes the artists and poets runaways:—it is in
these impatient spirits that a downright delight in delirium breaks out,
because delirium has such a joyful _tempo_! Virtuous intellects,
therefore, are needed—ah! I want to use the least ambiguous
word,—_virtuous stupidity_ is needed, imperturbable conductors of the
_slow_ spirits are needed, in order that the faithful of the great
collective belief may remain with one another and dance their dance
further: it is a necessity of the first importance that here enjoins and
demands. _We others are the exceptions and the danger_,—we eternally
need protection!—Well, there can actually be something said in favour of
the exceptions _provided that they never want to become the rule_.


                                  77.

_The Animal with good Conscience._—It is not unknown to me that there is
vulgarity in everything that pleases Southern Europe—whether it be
Italian opera (for example, Rossini's and Bellini's), or the Spanish
adventure-romance (most readily accessible to us in the French garb of
Gil Blas)—but it does not offend me, any more than the vulgarity which
one encounters in a walk through Pompeii, or even in the reading of
every ancient book: what is the reason of this? Is it because shame is
lacking here, and because the vulgar always comes forward just as sure
and certain of itself as anything noble, lovely, and passionate in the
same kind of music or romance? "The animal has its rights like man, so
let it run about freely; and you, my dear fellow-man, are still this
animal, in spite of all!"—that seems to me the moral of the case, and
the peculiarity of southern humanity. Bad taste has its rights like good
taste, and even a prerogative over the latter when it is the great
requisite, the sure satisfaction, and as it were a universal language,
an immediately intelligible mask and attitude; the excellent, select
taste on the other hand has always something of a seeking, tentative
character, not fully certain that it understands,—it is never, and has
never been popular! The _masque_ is and remains popular! So let all this
masquerade run along in the melodies and cadences, in the leaps and
merriment of the rhythm of these operas! Quite the ancient life! What
does one understand of it, if one does not understand the delight in the
masque, the good conscience of all masquerade! Here is the bath and the
refreshment of the ancient spirit:—and perhaps this bath was still more
necessary for the rare and sublime natures of the ancient world than for
the vulgar.—On the other hand, a vulgar turn in northern works, for
example in German music, offends me unutterably. There is _shame_ in it,
the artist has lowered himself in his own sight, and could not even
avoid blushing: we are ashamed with him, and are so hurt because we
surmise that he believed he had to lower himself on our account.


                                  78.

_What we should be Grateful for._—It is only the artists, and especially
the theatrical artists who have furnished men with eyes and ears to hear
and see with some pleasure what everyone is in himself, what he
experiences and aims at: it is only _they_ who have taught us how to
estimate the hero that is concealed in each of these common-place men,
and the art of looking at ourselves from a distance as heroes, and as it
were simplified and transfigured,—the art of "putting ourselves on the
stage" before ourselves. It is thus only that we get beyond some of the
paltry details in ourselves! Without that art we should be nothing but
fore-ground, and would live absolutely under the spell of the
perspective which makes the closest and the commonest seem immensely
large and like reality in itself.—Perhaps there is merit of a similar
kind in the religion which commanded us to look at the sinfulness of
every individual man with a magnifying-glass, and to make a great,
immortal criminal out of the sinner; in that it put eternal perspectives
around man, it taught him to see himself from a distance, and as
something past, something entire.


                                  79.

_The Charm of Imperfection._—I see here a poet, who, like so many men,
exercises a higher charm by his imperfections than by all that is
rounded off and takes perfect shape under his hands,—indeed, he derives
his advantage and reputation far more from his actual limitations than
from his abundant powers. His work never expresses altogether what he
would really like to express, what he _would like to have seen_: he
appears to have had the foretaste of a vision and never the vision
itself:—but an extraordinary longing for this vision has remained in his
soul; and from this he derives his equally extraordinary eloquence of
longing and craving. With this he raises those who listen to him above
his work and above all "works," and gives them wings to rise higher than
hearers have ever risen before, thus making them poets and seers
themselves; they then show an admiration for the originator of their
happiness, as if he had led them immediately to the vision of his
holiest and ultimate verities, as if he had reached his goal, and had
actually _seen_ and communicated his vision. It is to the advantage of
his reputation that he has not really arrived at his goal.


                                  80.

_Art and Nature._—The Greeks (or at least the Athenians) liked to hear
good talking: indeed they had an eager inclination for it, which
distinguished them more than anything else from non-Greeks. And so they
required good talking even from passion on the stage, and submitted to
the unnaturalness of dramatic verse with delight:—in nature, forsooth,
passion is so sparing of words! so dumb and confused! Or if it finds
words, so embarrassed and irrational and a shame to itself! We have now,
all of us, thanks to the Greeks, accustomed ourselves to this
unnaturalness on the stage, as we endure that other unnaturalness, the
_singing_ passion, and willingly endure it, thanks to the Italians.—It
has become a necessity to us, which we cannot satisfy out of the
resources of actuality, to hear men talk well and in full detail in the
most trying situations: it enraptures us at present when the tragic hero
still finds words, reasons, eloquent gestures, and on the whole a bright
spirituality, where life approaches the abysses, and where the actual
man mostly loses his head, and certainly his fine language. This kind of
_deviation from nature_ is perhaps the most agreeable repast for man's
pride: he loves art generally on account of it, as the expression of
high, heroic unnaturalness and convention. One rightly objects to the
dramatic poet when he does not transform everything into reason and
speech, but always retains a remnant of _silence_:—just as one is
dissatisfied with an operatic musician who cannot find a melody for the
highest emotion, but only an emotional, "natural" stammering and crying.
Here nature _has to_ be contradicted! Here the common charm of illusion
_has to_ give place to a higher charm! The Greeks go far, far in this
direction—frightfully far! As they constructed the stage as narrow as
possible and dispensed with all the effect of deep backgrounds, as they
made pantomime and easy motion impossible to the actor, and transformed
him into a solemn, stiff, masked bogey, so they have also deprived
passion itself of its deep background, and have dictated to it a law of
fine talk; indeed, they have really done everything to counteract the
elementary effect of representations that inspire pity and terror: _they
did not want pity and terror_,—with due deference, with the highest
deference to Aristotle! but he certainly did not hit the nail, to say
nothing of the head of the nail, when he spoke about the final aim of
Greek tragedy! Let us but look at the Grecian tragic poets with respect
to _what_ most excited their diligence, their inventiveness, and their
emulation,—certainly it was not the intention of subjugating the
spectators by emotion! The Athenian went to the theatre _to hear fine
talking_! And fine talking was arrived at by Sophocles!—pardon me this
heresy!—It is very different with _serious opera_: all its masters make
it their business to prevent their personages being understood. "An
occasional word picked up may come to the assistance of the inattentive
listener; but on the whole the situation must be self-explanatory,—the
_talking_ is of no account!"—so they all think, and so they have all
made fun of the words. Perhaps they have only lacked courage to express
fully their extreme contempt for words: a little additional insolence in
Rossini, and he would have allowed la-la-la-la to be sung throughout—and
it might have been the rational course! The personages of the opera are
_not_ meant to be believed "in their words," but in their tones! That is
the difference, that is the fine _unnaturalness_ on account of which
people go to the opera! Even the _recitativo secco_ is not really
intended to be heard as words and text: this kind of half-music is meant
rather in the first place to give the musical ear a little repose (the
repose from _melody_, as from the sublimest, and on that account the
most straining enjoyment of this art),—but very soon something different
results, namely, an increasing impatience, an increasing resistance, a
new longing for _entire_ music, for melody.—How is it with the art of
Richard Wagner as seen from this standpoint? Is it perhaps the same?
Perhaps otherwise? It would often seem to me as if one needed to have
learned by heart both the words _and_ the music of his creations before
the performances; for without that—so it seemed to me—one _may hear_
neither the words, nor even the music.


                                  81.

_Grecian Taste._—"What is beautiful in it?"—asked a certain
geometrician, after a performance of the _Iphigenia_—"there is nothing
proved in it!" Could the Greeks have been so far from this taste? In
Sophocles at least "everything is proved."


                                  82.

_Esprit Un-Grecian._—The Greeks were exceedingly logical and plain in
all their thinking; they did not get tired of it, at least during their
long flourishing period, as is so often the case with the French; who
too willingly made a little excursion into the opposite, and in fact
endure the spirit of logic only when it betrays its _sociable_ courtesy,
its sociable self-renunciation, by a multitude of such little excursions
into its opposite. Logic appears to them as necessary as bread and
water, but also like these as a kind of prison-fare, as soon as it is to
be taken pure and by itself. In good society one must never want to be
in the right absolutely and solely, as all pure logic requires; hence,
the little dose of irrationality in all French _esprit_.—The social
sense of the Greeks was far less developed than that of the French in
the present and the past; hence, so little _esprit_ in their cleverest
men, hence, so little wit, even in their wags, hence—alas! But people
will not readily believe these tenets of mine, and how much of the kind
I have still on my soul!—_Est res magna tacere_—says Martial, like all
garrulous people.


                                  83.

_Translations._—One can estimate the amount of the historical sense
which an age possesses by the way in which it makes _translations_ and
seeks to embody in itself past periods and literatures. The French of
Corneille, and even the French of the Revolution, appropriated Roman
antiquity in a manner for which we would no longer have the
courage—owing to our superior historical sense. And Roman antiquity
itself: how violently, and at the same time how naïvely, did it lay its
hand on everything excellent and elevated belonging to the older Grecian
antiquity! How they translated these writings into the Roman present!
How they wiped away intentionally and unconcernedly the wing-dust of the
butterfly moment! It is thus that Horace now and then translated Alcæus
or Archilochus, it is thus that Propertius translated Callimachus and
Philetas (poets of equal rank with Theocritus, if we _be allowed_ to
judge): of what consequence was it to them that the actual creator
experienced this and that, and had inscribed the indication thereof in
his poem!—as poets they were averse to the antiquarian, inquisitive
spirit which precedes the historical sense; as poets they did not
respect those essentially personal traits and names, nor anything
peculiar to city, coast, or century, such as its costume and mask, but
at once put the present and the Roman in its place. They seem to us to
ask: "Should we not make the old new for ourselves, and adjust
_ourselves_ to it? Should we not be allowed to inspire this dead body
with our soul? for it is dead indeed: how loathsome is everything
dead!"—They did not know the pleasure of the historical sense; the past
and the alien was painful to them, and as Romans it was an incitement to
a Roman conquest. In fact, they conquered when they translated,—not only
in that they omitted the historical: no, they added also allusions to
the present; above all, they struck out the name of the poet and put
their own in its place—not with the feeling of theft, but with the very
best conscience of the _imperium Romanum_.


                                  84.

_The Origin of Poetry._—The lovers of the fantastic in man, who at the
same time represent the doctrine of instinctive morality, draw this
conclusion: "Granted that utility has been honoured at all times as the
highest divinity, where then in all the world has poetry come from?—this
rhythmising of speech which thwarts rather than furthers plainness of
communication, and which, nevertheless, has sprung up everywhere on the
earth, and still springs up, as a mockery of all useful purpose! The
wildly beautiful irrationality of poetry refutes you, ye utilitarians!
The wish _to get rid of_ utility in some way—that is precisely what has
elevated man, that is what has inspired him to morality and art!" Well,
I must here speak for once to please the utilitarians,—they are so
seldom in the right that it is pitiful! In the old times which called
poetry into being, people had still utility in view with respect to it,
and a very important utility—at the time when rhythm was introduced into
speech, the force which arranges all the particles of the sentence anew,
commands the choosing of the words, recolours the thought, and makes it
more obscure, more foreign, and more distant: to be sure a
_superstitious utility_! It was intended that a human entreaty should be
more profoundly impressed upon the Gods by virtue of rhythm, after it
had been observed that men could remember a verse better than an
unmetrical speech. It was likewise thought that people could make
themselves audible at greater distances by the rhythmical beat; the
rhythmical prayer seemed to come nearer to the ear of the Gods. Above
all, however, people wanted to have the advantage of the elementary
conquest which man experiences in himself when he hears music: rhythm is
a constraint; it produces an unconquerable desire to yield, to join in;
not only the step of the foot, but also the soul itself follows the
measure,—probably the soul of the Gods also, as people thought! They
attempted, therefore, to _constrain_ the Gods by rhythm and to exercise
a power over them; they threw poetry around the Gods like a magic noose.
There was a still more wonderful idea, and it has perhaps operated most
powerfully of all in the originating of poetry. Among the Pythagoreans
it made its appearance as a philosophical doctrine and as an artifice of
teaching: but long before there were philosophers music was acknowledged
to possess the power of unburdening the emotions, of purifying the soul,
of soothing the _ferocia animi_—and this was owing to the rhythmical
element in music. When the proper tension and harmony of the soul were
lost a person had to _dance_ to the measure of the singer,—that was the
recipe of this medical art. By means of it Terpander quieted a tumult,
Empedocles calmed a maniac, Damon purged a love-sick youth; by means of
it even the maddened, revengeful Gods were treated for the purpose of a
cure. First of all, it was by driving the frenzy and wantonness of their
emotions to the highest pitch, by making the furious mad, and the
revengeful intoxicated with vengeance:—all the orgiastic cults seek to
discharge the _ferocia_ of a deity all at once and thus make an orgy, so
that the deity may feel freer and quieter afterwards, and leave man in
peace. _Melos_, according to its root, signifies a soothing means, not
because the song is gentle itself, but because its after-effect makes
gentle.—And not only in the religious song, but also in the secular song
of the most ancient times the prerequisite is that the rhythm should
exercise a magical influence; for example, in drawing water, or in
rowing: the song is for the enchanting of the spirits supposed to be
active thereby; it makes them obliging, involuntary, and the instruments
of man. And as often as a person acts he has occasion to sing, _every_
action is dependent on the assistance of spirits: magic song and
incantation appear to be the original form of poetry. When verse also
came to be used in oracles—the Greeks said that the hexameter was
invented at Delphi,—the rhythm was here also intended to exercise a
compulsory influence. To make a prophecy—that means originally
(according to what seems to me the probable derivation of the Greek
word) to determine something; people thought they could determine the
future by winning Apollo over to their side: he who, according to the
most ancient idea, is far more than a foreseeing deity. According as the
formula is pronounced with literal and rhythmical correctness, it
determines the future: the formula, however, is the invention of Apollo,
who as the God of rhythm, can also determine the goddesses of
fate.—Looked at and investigated as a whole, was there ever anything
_more serviceable_ to the ancient superstitious species of human being
than rhythm? People could do everything with it: they could make labour
go on magically; they could compel a God to appear, to be near at hand,
and listen to them; they could arrange the future for themselves
according to their will; they could unburden their own souls of any kind
of excess (of anxiety, of mania, of sympathy, of revenge), and not only
their own soul, but the souls of the most evil spirits,—without verse a
person was nothing, by means of verse a person became almost a God. Such
a fundamental feeling no longer allows itself to be fully
eradicated,—and even now, after millenniums of long labour in combating
such superstition, the very wisest of us occasionally becomes the fool
of rhythm, be it only that one _perceives_ a thought to be _truer_ when
it has a metrical form and approaches with a divine hopping. Is it not a
very funny thing that the most serious philosophers, however anxious
they are in other respects for strict certainty, still appeal to
_poetical sayings_ in order to give their thoughts force and
credibility?—and yet it is more dangerous to a truth when the poet
assents to it than when he contradicts it! For, as Homer says, "The
singers speak much falsehood!"—


                                  85.

_The Good and the Beautiful._—Artists _glorify_ continually—they do
nothing else,—and indeed they glorify all those conditions and things
that have a reputation, so that man may feel himself good or great, or
intoxicated, or merry, or pleased and wise by it. Those _select_ things
and conditions whose value for human _happiness_ is regarded as secure
and determined, are the objects of artists: they are ever lying in wait
to discover such things, to transfer them into the domain of art. I mean
to say that they are not themselves the valuers of happiness and of the
happy ones, but they always press close to these valuers with the
greatest curiosity and longing, in order immediately to use their
valuations advantageously. As besides their impatience, they have also
the big lungs of heralds and the feet of runners, they are likewise
always among the first to glorify the _new_ excellency, and often _seem_
to be those who first of all called it good and valued it as good. This,
however, as we have said, is an error; they are only faster and louder
than the actual valuers:—And who then are these?—They are the rich and
the leisurely.


                                  86.

_The Theatre._—This day has given me once more strong and elevated
sentiments, and if I could have music and art in the evening, I know
well what music and art I should _not_ like to have; namely, none of
that which would fain intoxicate its hearers and _excite_ them to a
crisis of strong and high feeling,—those men with commonplace souls, who
in the evening are not like victors on triumphal cars, but like tired
mules to whom life has rather too often applied the whip. What would
those men at all know of "higher moods," unless there were expedients
for causing ecstasy and idealistic strokes of the whip!—and thus they
have their inspirers as they have their wines. But what is their drink
and their drunkenness to _me_! Does the inspired one need wine? He
rather looks with a kind of disgust at the agency and the agent which
are here intended to produce an effect without sufficient reason,—an
imitation of the high tide of the soul! What? One gives the mole wings
and proud fancies—before going to sleep, before he creeps into his hole?
One sends him into the theatre and puts great magnifying-glasses to his
blind and tired eyes? Men, whose life is not "action" but business, sit
in front of the stage and look at strange beings to whom life is more
than business? "This is proper," you say, "this is entertaining, this is
what culture wants!"—Well then! culture is too often lacking in me, for
this sight is too often disgusting to me. He who has enough of tragedy
and comedy in himself surely prefers to remain away from the theatre;
or, as the exception, the whole procedure—theatre and public and poet
included—becomes for him a truly tragic and comic play, so that the
performed piece counts for little in comparison. He who is something
like Faust and Manfred, what does it matter to him about the Fausts and
Manfreds of the theatre!—while it certainly gives him something to think
about _that_ such figures are brought into the theatre at all. The
_strongest_ thoughts and passions before those who are not capable of
thought and passion—but of _intoxication_ only! And _those_ as a means
to this end! And theatre and music the hashish-smoking and betel-chewing
of Europeans! Oh, who will narrate to us the whole history of
narcotics!—It is almost the history of "culture," the so-called higher
culture!


                                  87.

_The Conceit of Artists._—I think artists often do not know what they
can do best, because they are too conceited, and have set their minds on
something loftier than those little plants appear to be, which can grow
up to perfection on their soil, fresh, rare, and beautiful. The final
value of their own garden and vineyard is superciliously underestimated
by them, and their love and their insight are not of the same quality.
Here is a musician, who, more than any one else, has the genius for
discovering the tones peculiar to suffering, oppressed, tortured souls,
and who can endow even dumb animals with speech. No one equals him in
the colours of the late autumn, in the indescribably touching happiness
of a last, a final, and all too short enjoyment; he knows a chord for
those secret and weird midnights of the soul when cause and effect seem
out of joint, and when every instant something may originate "out of
nothing." He draws his resources best of all out of the lower depths of
human happiness, and so to speak, out of its drained goblet, where the
bitterest and most nauseous drops have ultimately, for good or for ill,
commingled with the sweetest. He knows the weary shuffling along of the
soul which can no longer leap or fly, yea, not even walk; he has the shy
glance of concealed pain, of understanding without comfort, of
leave-taking without avowal; yea, as the Orpheus of all secret misery,
he is greater than anyone; and in fact much has been added to art by him
which was hitherto inexpressible and not even thought worthy of art, and
which was only to be scared away, by words, and not grasped—many small
and quite microscopic features of the soul: yes, he is the master of
miniature. But he does not _wish_ to be so! His _character_ is more in
love with large walls and daring frescoes! He fails to see that his
_spirit_ has a different taste and inclination, and prefers to sit
quietly in the corners of ruined houses:—concealed in this way,
concealed even from himself, he there paints his proper masterpieces,
all of which are very short, often only one bar in length,—there only
does he become quite good, great, and perfect, perhaps there only.—But
he does not know it! He is too conceited to know it.


                                  88.

_Earnestness for the Truth._—Earnest for the truth! What different
things men understand by these words! Just the same opinions, and modes
of demonstration and testing which a thinker regards as a frivolity in
himself, to which he has succumbed with shame at one time or other,—just
the same opinions may give to an artist, who comes in contact with them
and accepts them temporarily, the consciousness that the profoundest
earnestness for the truth has now taken hold of him, and that it is
worthy of admiration that, although an artist, he at the same time
exhibits the most ardent desire for the antithesis of the apparent. It
is thus possible that a person may, just by his pathos of earnestness,
betray how superficially and sparingly his intellect has hitherto
operated in the domain of knowledge.—And is not everything that we
consider _important_ our betrayer? It shows where our motives lie, and
where our motives are altogether lacking.


                                  89.

_Now and Formerly._—Of what consequence is all our art in artistic
products, if that higher art, the art of the festival, be lost by us?
Formerly all artistic products were exhibited on the great festive path
of humanity, as tokens of remembrance, and monuments of high and happy
moments. One now seeks to allure the exhausted and sickly from the great
suffering path of humanity for a wanton moment by means of works of art;
one furnishes them with a little ecstasy and insanity.


                                  90.

_Lights and Shades._—Books and writings are different with different
thinkers. One writer has collected together in his book all the rays of
light which he could quickly plunder and carry home from an illuminating
experience; while another gives only the shadows, and the grey and black
replicas of that which on the previous day had towered up in his soul.


                                  91.

_Precaution._—Alfieri, as is well known, told a great many falsehoods
when he narrated the history of his life to his astonished
contemporaries. He told falsehoods owing to the despotism toward himself
which he exhibited, for example, in the way in which he created his own
language, and tyrannised himself into a poet:—he finally found a rigid
form of sublimity into which he _forced_ his life and his memory; he
must have suffered much in the process.—I would also give no credit to a
history of Plato's life written by himself, as little as to Rousseau's,
or to the _Vita nuova_ of Dante.


                                  92.

_Prose and Poetry._—Let it be observed that the great masters of prose
have almost always been poets as well, whether openly, or only in secret
and for the "closet"; and in truth one only writes good prose _in view
of poetry_! For prose is an uninterrupted, polite warfare with poetry;
all its charm consists in the fact that poetry is constantly avoided,
and contradicted; every abstraction wants to have a gibe at poetry, and
wishes to be uttered with a mocking voice; all dryness and coolness is
meant to bring the amiable goddess into an amiable despair; there are
often approximations and reconciliations for the moment, and then a
sudden recoil and a burst of laughter; the curtain is often drawn up and
dazzling light let in just while the goddess is enjoying her twilights
and dull colours; the word is often taken out of her mouth and chanted
to a melody while she holds her fine hands before her delicate little
ears—and so there are a thousand enjoyments of the warfare, the defeats
included, of which the unpoetic, the so-called prose-men know nothing at
all:—they consequently write and speak only bad prose! _Warfare is the
father of all good things_, it is also the father of good prose!—There
have been four very singular and truly poetical men in this century who
have arrived at mastership in prose, for which otherwise this century is
not suited, owing to lack of poetry, as we have indicated. Not to take
Goethe into account, for he is reasonably claimed by the century that
produced him, I look only on Giacomo Leopardi, Prosper Mérimée, Ralph
Waldo Emerson, and Walter Savage Landor, the author of _Imaginary
Conversations_, as worthy to be called masters of prose.


                                  93.

_But why, then, do you Write?_—A: I do not belong to those who _think_
with the wet pen in hand; and still less to those who yield themselves
entirely to their passions before the open ink-bottle, sitting on their
chair and staring at the paper. I am always vexed and abashed by
writing; writing is a necessity for me,—even to speak of it in a simile
is disagreeable. B: But why, then, do you write? A: Well, my dear Sir,
to tell you in confidence, I have hitherto found no other means of
_getting rid of_ my thoughts. B: And why do you wish to get rid of them?
A: Why I wish? Do I really wish! I must.—B: Enough! Enough!


                                  94.

_Growth after Death._—Those few daring words about moral matters which
Fontenelle threw into his immortal _Dialogues of the Dead_, were
regarded by his age as paradoxes and amusements of a not unscrupulous
wit; even the highest judges of taste and intellect saw nothing more in
them,—indeed, Fontenelle himself perhaps saw nothing more. Then
something incredible takes place: these thoughts become truths! Science
proves them! The game becomes serious! And we read those dialogues with
a feeling different from that with which Voltaire and Helvetius read
them, and we involuntarily raise their originator into another and _much
higher_ class of intellects than they did.—Rightly? Wrongly?


                                  95.

_Chamfort._—That such a judge of men and of the multitude as Chamfort
should side with the multitude, instead of standing apart in
philosophical resignation and defence—I am at a loss to explain, except
as follows:—There was an instinct in him stronger than his wisdom, and
it had never been gratified: the hatred against all _noblesse_ of blood;
perhaps his mother's old and only too explicable hatred, which was
consecrated in him by love of her,—an instinct of revenge from his
boyhood, which waited for the hour to avenge his mother. But then the
course of his life, his genius, and alas! most of all, perhaps, the
paternal blood in his veins, had seduced him to rank and consider
himself equal to the _noblesse_—for many, many years! In the end,
however, he could not endure the sight of himself, the "old man" under
the old _régime_, any longer; he got into a violent, penitential
passion, and _in this state_ he put on the raiment of the populace as
_his_ special kind of hair-shirt! His bad conscience was the neglect of
revenge.—If Chamfort had then been a little more of the philosopher, the
Revolution would not have had its tragic wit and its sharpest sting; it
would have been regarded as a much more stupid affair, and would have
had no such seductive influence on men's minds. But Chamfort's hatred
and revenge educated an entire generation; and the most illustrious men
passed through his school. Let us but consider that Mirabeau looked up
to Chamfort as to his higher and older self, from whom he expected (and
endured) impulses, warnings, and condemnations,—Mirabeau, who as a man
belongs to an entirely different order of greatness, as the very
foremost among the statesman-geniuses of yesterday and to-day.—Strange,
that in spite of such a friend and advocate—we possess Mirabeau's
letters to Chamfort—this wittiest of all moralists has remained
unfamiliar to the French, quite the same as Stendhal, who has perhaps
had the most penetrating eyes and ears of any Frenchman of _this_
century. Is it because the latter had really too much of the German and
the Englishman in his nature for the Parisians to endure him?—while
Chamfort, a man with ample knowledge of the profundities and secret
motives of the soul, gloomy, suffering, ardent—a thinker who found
laughter necessary as the remedy of life, and who almost gave himself up
as lost every day that he had not laughed,—seems much more like an
Italian, and related by blood to Dante and Leopardi, than like a
Frenchman. One knows Chamfort's last words: "_Ah! mon ami_," he said to
Sieyès, "_je m'en vais enfin de ce monde, où il faut que le cœur se
brise ou se bronze_—." These were certainly not the words of a dying
Frenchman.


                                  96.

_Two Orators._—Of these two orators the one arrives at a full
understanding of his case only when he yields himself to emotion; it is
only this that pumps sufficient blood and heat into his brain to compel
his high intellectuality to reveal itself. The other attempts, indeed,
now and then to do the same: to state his case sonorously, vehemently,
and spiritedly with the aid of emotion,—but usually with bad success. He
then very soon speaks obscurely and confusedly; he exaggerates, makes
omissions, and excites suspicion of the justice of his case: indeed, he
himself feels this suspicion, and the sudden changes into the coldest
and most repulsive tones (which raise a doubt in the hearer as to his
passionateness being genuine) are thereby explicable. With him emotion
always drowns the spirit; perhaps because it is stronger than in the
former. But he is at the height of his power when he resists the
impetuous storm of his feeling, and as it were scorns it; it is then
only that his spirit emerges fully from its concealment, a spirit
logical, mocking, and playful, but nevertheless awe-inspiring.


                                  97.

_The Loquacity of Authors._—There is a loquacity of anger—frequent in
Luther, also in Schopenhauer. A loquacity which comes from too great a
store of conceptual formulæ, as in Kant. A loquacity which comes from
delight in ever new modifications of the same idea: one finds it in
Montaigne. A loquacity of malicious natures: whoever reads writings of
our period will recollect two authors in this connection. A loquacity
which comes from delight in fine words and forms of speech: by no means
rare in Goethe's prose. A loquacity which comes from pure satisfaction
in noise and confusion of feelings: for example in Carlyle.


                                  98.

_In Honour of Shakespeare._—The best thing I could say in honour of
Shakespeare, _the man_, is that he believed in Brutus and cast not a
shadow of suspicion on the kind of virtue which Brutus represents! It is
to him that Shakespeare consecrated his best tragedy—it is at present
still called by a wrong name,—to him and to the most terrible essence of
lofty morality. Independence of soul!—that is the question at issue! No
sacrifice can be too great there: one must be able to sacrifice to it
even one's dearest friend, though he be also the grandest of men, the
ornament of the world, the genius without peer,—if one really loves
freedom as the freedom of great souls, and if _this_ freedom be
threatened by him:—it is thus that Shakespeare must have felt! The
elevation in which he places Cæsar is the most exquisite honour he could
confer upon Brutus; it is thus only that he lifts into vastness the
inner problem of his hero, and similarly the strength of soul which
could cut _this knot_!—And was it actually political freedom that
impelled the poet to sympathy with Brutus,—and made him the accomplice
of Brutus? Or was political freedom merely a symbol for something
inexpressible? Do we perhaps stand before some sombre event or adventure
of the poet's own soul, which has remained unknown, and of which he only
cared to speak symbolically? What is all Hamlet-melancholy in comparison
with the melancholy of Brutus!—and perhaps Shakespeare also knew this,
as he knew the other, by experience! Perhaps he also had his dark hour
and his bad angel, just as Brutus had them!—But whatever similarities
and secret relationships of that kind there may have been, Shakespeare
cast himself on the ground and felt unworthy and alien in presence of
the aspect and virtue of Brutus:—he has inscribed the testimony thereof
in the tragedy itself. He has twice brought in a poet in it, and twice
heaped upon him such an impatient and extreme contempt, that it sounds
like a cry,—like the cry of self-contempt. Brutus, even Brutus loses
patience when the poet appears, self-important, pathetic, and obtrusive,
as poets usually are,—persons who seem to abound in the possibilities of
greatness, even moral greatness, and nevertheless rarely attain even to
ordinary uprightness in the philosophy of practice and of life. "He may
know the times, _but I know his temper_,—away with the jigging
fool!"—shouts Brutus. We may translate this back into the soul of the
poet that composed it.


                                  99.

_The Followers of Schopenhauer._—What one sees at the contact of
civilized peoples with barbarians,—namely, that the lower civilization
regularly accepts in the first place the vices, weaknesses, and excesses
of the higher; then, from that point onward, feels the influence of a
charm; and finally, by means of the appropriated vices and weaknesses,
also allows something of the valuable influence of the higher culture to
leaven it:—one can also see this close at hand and without journeys to
barbarian peoples, to be sure, somewhat refined and spiritualised, and
not so readily palpable. What are the German followers of _Schopenhauer_
still accustomed to receive first of all from their master:—those who,
when placed beside his superior culture, must deem themselves
sufficiently barbarous to be first of all barbarously fascinated and
seduced by him. Is it his hard matter-of-fact sense, his inclination to
clearness and rationality, which often makes him appear so English, and
so unlike Germans? Or the strength of his intellectual conscience, which
_endured_ a life-long contradiction of "being" and "willing," and
compelled him to contradict himself constantly even in his writings on
almost every point? Or his purity in matters relating to the Church and
the Christian God?—for here he was pure as no German philosopher had
been hitherto, so that he lived and died "as a Voltairian." Or his
immortal doctrines of the intellectuality of intuition, the apriority of
the law of causality, the instrumental nature of the intellect, and the
non-freedom of the will? No, nothing of this enchants, nor is felt as
enchanting; but Schopenhauer's mystical embarrassments and shufflings in
those passages where the matter-of-fact thinker allowed himself to be
seduced and corrupted by the vain impulse to be the unraveller of the
world's riddle: his undemonstrable doctrine of _one will_ ("all causes
are merely occasional causes of the phenomenon of the will at such a
time and at such a place," "the will to live, whole and undivided, is
present in every being, even in the smallest, as perfectly as in the sum
of all that was, is, and will be"); his _denial of the individual_ ("all
lions are really only one lion," "plurality of individuals is an
appearance," as also _development_ is only an appearance: he calls the
opinion of Lamarck "an ingenious, absurd error"); his fantasy about
_genius_ ("in æsthetic contemplation the individual is no longer an
individual, but a pure, will-less, painless, timeless subject of
knowledge," "the subject, in that it entirely merges in the contemplated
object, has become this object itself"); his nonsense about _sympathy_,
and about the outburst of the _principium individuationis_ thus rendered
possible, as the source of all morality; including also such assertions
as, "dying is really the design of existence," "the possibility should
not be absolutely denied that a magical effect could proceed from a
person already dead":—these, and similar _extravagances_ and vices of
the philosopher, are always first accepted and made articles of faith;
for vices and extravagances are always easiest to imitate, and do not
require a long preliminary practice. But let us speak of the most
celebrated of the living Schopenhauerians, Richard Wagner.—It has
happened to him as it has already happened to many an artist: he made a
mistake in the interpretation of the characters he created, and
misunderstood the unexpressed philosophy of the art peculiarly his own.
Richard Wagner allowed himself to be misled by Hegel's influence till
the middle of his life; and he did the same again when later on he read
Schopenhauer's doctrine between the lines of his characters, and began
to express himself with such terms as "will," "genius," and "sympathy."
Nevertheless it will remain true that nothing is more counter to
Schopenhauer's spirit than the essentially Wagnerian element in Wagner's
heroes: I mean the innocence of the supremest selfishness, the belief in
strong passion as the good in itself, in a word, the Siegfried trait in
the countenances of his heroes. "All that still smacks more of Spinoza
than of me,"—Schopenhauer would probably have said. Whatever good
reasons, therefore, Wagner might have had to be on the outlook for other
philosophers than Schopenhauer, the enchantment to which he succumbed in
respect to this thinker, not only made him blind towards all other
philosophers, but even towards science itself; his entire art is more
and more inclined to become the counterpart and complement of the
Schopenhauerian philosophy, and it always renounces more emphatically
the higher ambition to become the counterpart and complement of human
knowledge and science. And not only is he allured thereto by the whole
mystic pomp of this philosophy (which would also have allured a
Cagliostro), the peculiar airs and emotions of the philosopher have all
along been seducing him as well! For example, Wagner's indignation about
the corruption of the German language is Schopenhauerian; and if one
should commend his imitation in this respect, it is nevertheless not to
be denied that Wagner's style itself suffers in no small degree from all
the tumours and turgidities, the sight of which made Schopenhauer so
furious; and that, in respect to the German-writing Wagnerians,
Wagneromania is beginning to be as dangerous as only some kinds of
Hegelomania have been. Schopenhauerian is Wagner's hatred of the Jews,
to whom he is unable to do justice, even in their greatest exploit: are
not the Jews the inventors of Christianity! The attempt of Wagner to
construe Christianity as a seed blown away from Buddhism, and his
endeavour to initiate a Buddhistic era in Europe, under a temporary
approximation to Catholic-Christian formulas and sentiments, are both
Schopenhauerian. Wagner's preaching in favour of pity in dealing with
animals is Schopenhauerian; Schopenhauer's predecessor here, as is well
known, was Voltaire, who already perhaps, like his successors, knew how
to disguise his hatred of certain men and things as pity towards
animals. At least Wagner's hatred of science, which manifests itself in
his preaching, has certainly not been inspired by the spirit of
charitableness and kindness—nor by the _spirit_ at all, as is
sufficiently obvious.—Finally, it is of little importance what the
philosophy of an artist is, provided it is only a supplementary
philosophy, and does not do any injury to his art itself. We cannot be
sufficiently on our guard against taking a dislike to an artist on
account of an occasional, perhaps very unfortunate and presumptuous
masquerade; let us not forget that the dear artists are all of them
something of actors—and must be so; it would be difficult for them to
hold out in the long run without stage-playing. Let us be loyal to
Wagner in that which is _true_ and original in him,—and especially in
this point, that we, his disciples, remain loyal to ourselves in that
which is true and original in us. Let us allow him his intellectual
humours and spasms, let us in fairness rather consider what strange
nutriments and necessaries an art like his _is entitled to_, in order to
be able to live and grow! It is of no account that he is often wrong as
a thinker; justice and patience are not _his_ affair. It is sufficient
that his life is right in his own eyes, and maintains its right,—the
life which calls to each of us: "Be a man, and do not follow me—but
thyself! thyself!" _Our_ life, also ought to maintain its right in our
own eyes! We also are to grow and blossom out of ourselves, free and
fearless, in innocent selfishness! And so, on the contemplation of such
a man, these thoughts still ring in my ears to-day, as formerly: "That
passion is better than stoicism or hypocrisy; that straightforwardness,
even in evil, is better than losing oneself in trying to observe
traditional morality; that the free man is just as able to be good as
evil, but that the unemancipated man is a disgrace to nature, and has no
share in heavenly or earthly bliss; finally, that _all who wish to be
free must become so through themselves_, and that freedom falls to
nobody's lot as a gift from Heaven." (_Richard Wagner in Bayreuth_, Vol.
I. of this Translation, pp. 199-200).


                                  100.

_Learning to do Homage._—One must learn the art of homage, as well as
the art of contempt. Whoever goes in new paths and has led many persons
therein, discovers with astonishment how awkward and incompetent all of
them are in the expression of their gratitude, and indeed how rarely
gratitude _is able_ even to express itself. It is always as if something
comes into people's throats when their gratitude wants to speak, so that
it only hems and haws, and becomes silent again. The way in which a
thinker succeeds in tracing the effect of his thoughts, and their
transforming and convulsing power, is almost a comedy: it sometimes
seems as if those who have been operated upon felt profoundly injured
thereby, and could only assert their independence, which they suspect to
be threatened, by all kinds of improprieties. It needs whole generations
in order merely to devise a courteous convention of gratefulness; it is
only very late that the period arrives when something of spirit and
genius enters into gratitude. Then there is usually some one who is the
great receiver of thanks, not only for the good he himself has done, but
mostly for that which has been gradually accumulated by his
predecessors, as a treasure of what is highest and best.


                                  101.

_Voltaire._—Wherever there has been a court, it has furnished the
standard of good-speaking, and with this also the standard of style for
writers. The court language, however, is the language of the courtier
who _has no profession_, and who even in conversations on scientific
subjects avoids all convenient, technical expressions, because they
smack of the profession; on that account the technical expression, and
everything that betrays the specialist, is a _blemish of style_ in
countries which have a court culture. At present, when all courts have
become caricatures of past and present times, one is astonished to find
even Voltaire unspeakably reserved and scrupulous on this point (for
example, in his judgments concerning such stylists as Fontenelle and
Montesquieu),—we are now, all of us, emancipated from court taste, while
Voltaire was its _perfecter_!


                                  102.

_A Word for Philologists._—It is thought that there are books so
valuable and royal that whole generations of scholars are well employed
when through their efforts these books are kept genuine and
intelligible,—to confirm this belief again and again is the purpose of
philology. It presupposes that the rare men are not lacking (though they
may not be visible), who actually know how to use such valuable
books:—those men perhaps who write such books themselves, or could write
them. I mean to say that philology presupposes a noble belief,—that for
the benefit of some few who are always "to come," and are not there, a
very great amount of painful, and even dirty labour has to be done
beforehand: it is all labour _in usum Delphinorum_.


                                  103.

_German Music._—German music, more than any other, has now become
European music; because the changes which Europe experienced through the
Revolution have therein alone found expression: it is only German music
that knows how to express the agitation of popular masses, the
tremendous artificial uproar, which does not even need to be very
noisy,—while Italian opera, for example, knows only the choruses of
domestics or soldiers, but not "the people." There is the additional
fact that in all German music a profound _bourgeois_ jealousy of the
_noblesse_ can be traced, especially a jealousy of _esprit_ and
_élégance_, as the expressions of a courtly, chivalrous, ancient, and
self-confident society. It is not music like that of Goethe's musician
at the gate, which was pleasing also "in the hall," and to the king as
well; it is not here said: "The knights looked on with martial air; with
bashful eyes the ladies." Even the Graces are not allowed in German
music without a touch of remorse; it is only with Pleasantness, the
country sister of the Graces that the German begins to feel morally at
ease—and from this point up to his enthusiastic, learned, and often
gruff "sublimity" (the Beethoven-like sublimity), he feels more and more
so. If we want to imagine the man of _this_ music,—well, let us just
imagine Beethoven as he appeared beside Goethe, say, at their meeting at
Teplitz: as semi-barbarism beside culture, as the masses beside the
nobility, as the good-natured man beside the good and more than "good"
man, as the visionary beside the artist, as the man needing comfort
beside the comforted, as the man given to exaggeration and distrust
beside the man of reason, as the crank and self-tormenter, as the
foolish, enraptured, blessedly unfortunate, sincerely immoderate man, as
the pretentious and awkward man,—and altogether as the "untamed man": it
was thus that Goethe conceived and characterised him, Goethe, the
exceptional German, for whom a music of equal rank has not yet been
found!—Finally, let us consider whether the present, continually
extending contempt of melody and the stunting of the sense for melody
among Germans should not be understood as a democratic impropriety and
an after-effect of the Revolution? For melody has such an obvious
delight in conformity to law, and such an aversion to everything
evolving, unformed and arbitrary, that it sounds like a note out of the
_ancient_ European regime, and as a seduction and re-duction back to it.


                                  104.

_The Tone of the German Language._—We know whence the German originated
which for several centuries has been the universal, literary language of
Germany. The Germans, with their reverence for everything that came from
the _court_, intentionally took the chancery style as their pattern in
all that they had to _write_, especially in their letters, records,
wills, &c. To write in the chancery style, that was to write in court
and government style,—that was regarded as something select compared
with the language of the city in which a person lived. People gradually
drew this inference, and spoke also as they wrote,—they thus became
still more select in the forms of their words, in the choice of their
terms and modes of expression, and finally also in their tones: they
affected a court tone when they spoke, and the affectation at last
became natural. Perhaps nothing quite similar has ever happened
elsewhere:—the predominance of the literary style over the talk, and the
formality and affectation of an entire people, becoming the basis of a
common and no longer dialectical language. I believe that the sound of
the German language in the Middle Ages, and especially after the Middle
Ages, was extremely rustic and vulgar; it has ennobled itself somewhat
during the last centuries, principally because it was found necessary to
imitate so many French, Italian, and Spanish sounds, and particularly on
the part of the German (and Austrian) nobility, who could not at all
content themselves with their mother-tongue. But notwithstanding this
practice, German must have sounded intolerably vulgar to Montaigne, and
even to Racine: even at present, in the mouths of travellers among the
Italian populace, it still sounds very coarse, sylvan, and hoarse, as if
it had originated in smoky rooms and outlandish districts.—Now I notice
that at present a similar striving after selectness of tone is spreading
among the former admirers of the chancery style, and that the Germans
are beginning to accommodate themselves to a peculiar "witchery of
sound," which might in the long run become an actual danger to the
German language,—for one may seek in vain for more execrable sounds in
Europe. Something mocking, cold, indifferent, and careless in the voice:
that is what at present sounds "noble" to the Germans—and I hear the
approval of this nobleness in the voices of young officials, teachers,
women, and trades-people; indeed, even the little girls already imitate
this German of the officers. For the officer, and in fact the Prussian
officer is the inventor of these tones: this same officer, who, as
soldier and professional man possesses that admirable tact for modesty
which the Germans as a whole might well imitate (German professors and
musicians included!). But as soon as he speaks and moves he is the most
immodest and inelegant figure in old Europe—no doubt unconsciously to
himself! And unconsciously also to the good Germans, who gaze at him as
the man of the foremost and most select society, and willingly let him
"give them his tone." And indeed he gives it to them!—in the first place
it is the sergeant-majors and non-commissioned officers that imitate his
tone and coarsen it. One should note the roars of command, with which
the German cities are absolutely surrounded at present, when there is
drilling at all the gates: what presumption, furious imperiousness, and
mocking coldness speaks in this uproar! Could the Germans actually be a
musical people?—It is certain that the Germans martialise themselves at
present in the tone of their language: it is probable that, being
exercised to speak martially, they will finally write martially also.
For habituation to definite tones extends deeply into the
character:—people soon have the words and modes of expression, and
finally also the thoughts which just suit these tones! Perhaps they
already write in the officers' style; perhaps I only read too little of
what is at present written in Germany to know this. But one thing I know
all the surer: the German public declarations which also reach places
abroad, are not inspired by German music, but just by that new tone of
tasteless arrogance. Almost in every speech of the foremost German
statesman, and even when he makes himself heard through his imperial
mouth-piece, there is an accent which the ear of a foreigner repudiates
with aversion: but the Germans endure it,—they endure themselves.


                                  105.

_The Germans as Artists._—When once a German actually experiences
passion (and not only, as is usual, the mere inclination to it), he then
behaves just as he must do in passion, and does not think further of his
behaviour. The truth is, however, that he then behaves very awkwardly
and uglily, and as if destitute of rhythm and melody; so that onlookers
are pained or moved thereby, but nothing more—_unless_ he elevate
himself to the sublimity and enrapturedness of which certain passions
are capable. Then even the German becomes _beautiful_. The perception of
the _height at which_ beauty begins to shed its charm even over Germans,
raises German artists to the height, to the supreme height, and to the
extravagances of passion: they have an actual, profound longing,
therefore, to get beyond, or at least to look beyond the ugliness and
awkwardness—into a better, easier, more southern, more sunny world. And
thus their convulsions are often merely indications that they would like
to _dance_: these poor bears in whom hidden nymphs and satyrs, and
sometimes still higher divinities, carry on their game!


                                  106.

_Music as Advocate._—"I have a longing for a master of the musical art,"
said an innovator to his disciple, "that he may learn from me my ideas
and speak them more widely in his language: I shall thus be better able
to reach men's ears and hearts. For by means of tones one can seduce men
to every error and every truth: who could _refute_ a tone?"—"You would,
therefore, like to be regarded as irrefutable?" said his disciple. The
innovator answered: "I should like the germ to become a tree. In order
that a doctrine may become a tree, it must be believed in for a
considerable period; in order that it may be believed in it must be
regarded as irrefutable. Storms and doubts and worms and wickedness are
necessary to the tree, that it may manifest its species and the strength
of its germ; let it perish if it is not strong enough! But a germ is
always merely annihilated,—not refuted!"—When he had said this, his
disciple called out impetuously: "But I believe in your cause, and
regard it as so strong that I will say everything against it, everything
that I still have in my heart."—The innovator laughed to himself and
threatened the disciple with his finger. "This kind of discipleship,"
said he then, "is the best, but it is dangerous, and not every kind of
doctrine can stand it."


                                  107.

_Our Ultimate Gratitude to Art._—If we had not approved of the Arts and
invented this sort of cult of the untrue, the insight into the general
untruth and falsity of things now given us by science—an insight into
delusion and error as conditions of intelligent and sentient
existence—would be quite unendurable. _Honesty_ would have disgust and
suicide in its train. Now, however, our honesty has a counterpoise which
helps us to escape such consequences;—namely, Art, as the _good-will_ to
illusion. We do not always restrain our eyes from rounding off and
perfecting in imagination: and then it is no longer the eternal
imperfection that we carry over the river of Becoming—for we think we
carry a _goddess_, and are proud and artless in rendering this service.
As an æsthetic phenomenon existence is still _endurable_ to us; and by
Art, eye and hand and above all the good conscience are given to us, _to
be able_ to make such a phenomenon out of ourselves. We must rest from
ourselves occasionally by contemplating and looking down upon ourselves,
and by laughing or weeping _over_ ourselves from an artistic remoteness:
we must discover the _hero_, and likewise the _fool_, that is hidden in
our passion for knowledge; we must now and then be joyful in our folly,
that we may continue to be joyful in our wisdom! And just because we are
heavy and serious men in our ultimate depth, and are rather weights than
men, there is nothing that does us so much good as the _fool's cap and
bells_: we need them in presence of ourselves—we need all arrogant,
soaring, dancing, mocking, childish and blessed Art, in order not to
lose the _free dominion over things_ which our ideal demands of us. It
would be _backsliding_ for us, with our susceptible integrity, to lapse
entirely into morality, and actually become virtuous monsters and
scarecrows, on account of the over-strict requirements which we here lay
down for ourselves. We ought also to _be able_ to stand _above_
morality, and not only stand with the painful stiffness of one who every
moment fears to slip and fall, but we should also be able to soar and
play above it! How could we dispense with Art for that purpose, how
could we dispense with the fool?—And as long as you are still _ashamed_
of yourselves in any way, you still do not belong to us!

-----

Footnote 8:

  Schiller's poem, "The Veiled Image of Sais," is again referred to
  here.—TR.




                               BOOK THIRD


                                  108.

_New Struggles._—After Buddha was dead people showed his shadow for
centuries afterwards in a cave,—an immense frightful shadow. God is
dead: but as the human race is constituted, there will perhaps be caves
for millenniums yet, in which people will show his shadow,—And we—we
have still to overcome his shadow!


                                  109.

_Let us be on our Guard._—Let us be on our guard against thinking that
the world is a living being. Where could it extend itself? What could it
nourish itself with? How could it grow and increase? We know tolerably
well what the organic is; and we are to reinterpret the emphatically
derivative, tardy, rare and accidental, which we only perceive on the
crust of the earth, into the essential, universal and eternal, as those
do who call the universe an organism? That disgusts me. Let us now be on
our guard against believing that the universe is a machine; it is
assuredly not constructed with a view to _one_ end; we invest it with
far too high an honour with the word "machine." Let us be on our guard
against supposing that anything so methodical as the cyclic motions of
our neighbouring stars obtains generally and throughout the universe;
indeed a glance at the Milky Way induces doubt as to whether there are
not many cruder and more contradictory motions there, and even stars
with continuous, rectilinearly gravitating orbits, and the like. The
astral arrangement in which we live is an exception; this arrangement,
and the relatively long durability which is determined by it, has again
made possible the exception of exceptions, the formation of organic
life. The general character of the world, on the other hand, is to all
eternity chaos; not by the absence of necessity, but in the sense of the
absence of order, structure, form, beauty, wisdom, and whatever else our
æsthetic humanities are called. Judged by our reason, the unlucky casts
are far oftenest the rule, the exceptions are not the secret purpose;
and the whole musical box repeats eternally its air, which can never be
called a melody,—and finally the very expression, "unlucky cast" is
already an anthropomorphising which involves blame. But how could we
presume to blame or praise the universe! Let us be on our guard against
ascribing to it heartlessness and unreason, or their opposites; it is
neither perfect, nor beautiful, nor noble; nor does it seek to be
anything of the kind, it does not at all attempt to imitate man! It is
altogether unaffected by our æsthetic and moral judgments! Neither has
it any self-preservative instinct, nor instinct at all; it also knows no
law. Let us be on our guard against saying that there are laws in
nature. There are only necessities: there is no one who commands, no one
who obeys, no one who transgresses. When you know that there is no
design, you know also that there is no chance: for it is only where
there is a world of design that the word "chance" has a meaning. Let us
be on our guard against saying that death is contrary to life. The
living being is only a species of dead being, and a very rare
species.—Let us be on our guard against thinking that the world
eternally creates the new. There are no eternally enduring substances;
matter is just another such error as the God of the Eleatics. But when
shall we be at an end with our foresight and precaution! When will all
these shadows of God cease to obscure us? When shall we have nature
entirely undeified! When shall we be permitted to _naturalise_ ourselves
by means of the pure, newly discovered, newly redeemed nature?


                                  110.

_Origin of Knowledge._—Throughout immense stretches of time the
intellect has produced nothing but errors; some of them proved to be
useful and preservative of the species: he who fell in with them, or
inherited them, waged the battle for himself and his offspring with
better success. Those erroneous articles of faith which were
successively transmitted by inheritance, and have finally become almost
the property and stock of the human species, are, for example, the
following:—that there are enduring things, that there are equal things,
that there are things, substances, and bodies, that a thing is what it
appears, that our will is free, that what is good for me is also good
absolutely. It was only very late that the deniers and doubters of such
propositions came forward,—it was only very late that truth made its
appearance as the most impotent form of knowledge. It seemed as if it
were impossible to get along with truth, our organism was adapted for
the very opposite; all its higher functions, the perceptions of the
senses, and in general every kind of sensation co-operated with those
primevally embodied, fundamental errors. Moreover, those propositions
became the very standards of knowledge according to which the "true" and
the "false" were determined—throughout the whole domain of pure logic.
The _strength_ of conceptions does not, therefore, depend on their
degree of truth, but on their antiquity, their embodiment, their
character as conditions of life. Where life and knowledge seemed to
conflict, there has never been serious contention; denial and doubt have
there been regarded as madness. The exceptional thinkers like the
Eleatics, who, in spite of this, advanced and maintained the antitheses
of the natural errors, believed that it was possible also _to live_
these counterparts: it was they who devised the sage as the man of
immutability, impersonality and universality of intuition, as one and
all at the same time, with a special faculty for that reverse kind of
knowledge; they were of the belief that their knowledge was at the same
time the principle of _life_. To be able to affirm all this, however,
they had to _deceive_ themselves concerning their own condition: they
had to attribute to themselves impersonality and unchanging permanence,
they had to mistake the nature of the philosophic individual, deny the
force of the impulses in cognition, and conceive of reason generally as
an entirely free and self-originating activity; they kept their eyes
shut to the fact that they also had reached their doctrines in
contradiction to valid methods, or through their longing for repose or
for exclusive possession or for domination. The subtler development of
sincerity and of scepticism finally made these men impossible; their
life also and their judgments turned out to be dependent on the primeval
impulses and fundamental errors of all sentient being.—The subtler
sincerity and scepticism arose whenever two antithetical maxims appeared
to be _applicable_ to life, because both of them were compatible with
the fundamental errors; where, therefore, there could be contention
concerning a higher or lower degree of _utility_ for life; and likewise
where new maxims proved to be, not in fact useful, but at least not
injurious, as expressions of an intellectual impulse to play a game that
was, like all games, innocent and happy. The human brain was gradually
filled with such judgments and convictions; and in this tangled skein
there arose ferment, strife and lust for power. Not only utility and
delight, but every kind of impulse took part in the struggle for
"truths": the intellectual struggle became a business, an attraction, a
calling, a duty, an honour—: cognizing and striving for the true finally
arranged themselves as needs among other needs. From that moment, not
only belief and conviction, but also examination, denial, distrust and
contradiction became _forces_; all "evil" instincts were subordinated to
knowledge, were placed in its service, and acquired the prestige of the
permitted, the honoured, the useful, and finally the appearance and
innocence of the _good_. Knowledge, thus became a portion of life
itself, and as life it became a continually growing power: until finally
the cognitions and those primeval, fundamental, errors clashed with each
other, both as life, both as power, both in the same man. The thinker is
now the being in whom the impulse to truth and those life-preserving
errors wage their first conflict, now that the impulse to truth has also
_proved_ itself to be a life-preserving power. In comparison with the
importance of this conflict everything else is indifferent; the final
question concerning the conditions of life is here raised, and the first
attempt is here made to answer it by experiment. How far is truth
susceptible of embodiment?—that is the question, that is the experiment.


                                  111.

_Origin of the Logical._—Where has logic originated in men's heads?
Undoubtedly out of the illogical, the domain of which must originally
have been immense. But numberless beings who reasoned otherwise than we
do at present, perished; albeit that they may have come nearer to truth
than we! Whoever, for example, could not discern the "like" often enough
with regard to food, and with regard to animals dangerous to him,
whoever, therefore, deduced too slowly, or was too circumspect in his
deductions, had smaller probability of survival than he who in all
similar things immediately divined the equality. The preponderating
inclination, however, to deal with the similar as the equal—an illogical
inclination, for there is nothing equal in itself—first created the
whole basis of logic. It was just so (in order that the conception of
substance might originate, this being indispensable to logic, although
in the strictest sense nothing actual corresponds to it) that for a long
period the changing process in things had to be overlooked, and remain
unperceived; the beings not seeing correctly had an advantage over those
who saw everything "in flux." In itself every high degree of
circumspection in conclusions, every sceptical inclination, is a great
danger to life. No living being would have been preserved unless the
contrary inclination—to affirm rather than suspend judgment, to mistake
and fabricate rather than wait, to assent rather than deny, to decide
rather than be in the right—had been cultivated with extraordinary
assiduity.—The course of logical thought and reasoning in our modern
brain corresponds to a process and struggle of impulses, which singly
and in themselves are all very illogical and unjust; we experience
usually only the result of the struggle, so rapidly and secretly does
this primitive mechanism now operate in us.


                                  112.

_Cause and Effect._—We say it is "explanation"; but it is only in
"description" that we are in advance of the older stages of knowledge
and science. We describe better,—we explain just as little as our
predecessors. We have discovered a manifold succession where the naïve
man and investigator of older cultures saw only two things, "cause" and
"effect," as it was said; we have perfected the conception of becoming,
but have not got a knowledge of what is above and behind the conception.
The series of "causes" stands before us much more complete in every
case; we conclude that this and that must first precede in order that
that other may follow—but we have not _grasped_ anything thereby. The
peculiarity, for example, in every chemical process seems a "miracle,"
the same as before, just like all locomotion; nobody has "explained"
impulse. How could we ever explain! We operate only with things which do
not exist, with lines, surfaces, bodies, atoms, divisible times,
divisible spaces—how can explanation ever be possible when we first make
everything a _conception_, our conception! It is sufficient to regard
science as the exactest humanising of things that is possible; we always
learn to describe ourselves more accurately by describing things and
their successions. Cause and effect: there is probably never any such
duality; in fact there is a _continuum_ before us, from which we isolate
a few portions;—just as we always observe a motion as isolated points,
and therefore do not properly see it, but infer it. The abruptness with
which many effects take place leads us into error; it is however only an
abruptness for us. There is an infinite multitude of processes in that
abrupt moment which escape us. An intellect which could see cause and
effect as a _continuum_, which could see the flux of events not
according to our mode of perception, as things arbitrarily separated and
broken—would throw aside the conception of cause and effect, and would
deny all conditionality.


                                  113.

_The Theory of Poisons._—So many things have to be united in order that
scientific thinking may arise, and all the necessary powers must have
been devised, exercised, and fostered singly! In their isolation,
however, they have very often had quite a different effect than at
present, when they are confined within the limits of scientific thinking
and kept mutually in check:—they have operated as poisons; for example,
the doubting impulse, the denying impulse, the waiting impulse, the
collecting impulse, the disintegrating impulse. Many hecatombs of men
were sacrificed ere these impulses learned to understand their
juxtaposition and regard themselves as functions of one organising force
in one man! And how far are we still from the point at which the
artistic powers and the practical wisdom of life shall co-operate with
scientific thinking, so that a higher organic system may be formed, in
relation to which the scholar, the physician, the artist, and the
lawgiver, as we know them at present, will seem sorry antiquities!


                                  114.

_The Extent of the Moral._—We construct a new picture, which we see
immediately with the aid of all the old experiences which we have had,
_always according to the degree_ of our honesty and justice. The only
events are moral events, even in the domain of sense-perception.


                                  115.

_The Four Errors._—Man has been reared by his errors: firstly, he saw
himself always imperfect; secondly, he attributed to himself imaginary
qualities; thirdly, he felt himself in a false position in relation to
the animals and nature; fourthly, he always devised new tables of
values, and accepted them for a time as eternal and unconditioned, so
that at one time this, and at another time that human impulse or state
stood first, and was ennobled in consequence. When one has deducted the
effect of these four errors, one has also deducted humanity, humaneness,
and "human dignity."


                                  116.

_Herd-Instinct._—Wherever we meet with a morality we find a valuation
and order of rank of the human impulses and activities. These valuations
and orders of rank are always the expression of the needs of a community
or herd: that which is in the first place to _its_ advantage—and in the
second place and third place—is also the authoritative standard for the
worth of every individual. By morality the individual is taught to
become a function of the herd, and to ascribe to himself value only as a
function. As the conditions for the maintenance of one community have
been very different from those of another community, there have been
very different moralities; and in respect to the future essential
transformations of herds and communities, states and societies, one can
prophesy that there will still be very divergent moralities. Morality is
the herd-instinct in the individual.


                                  117.

_The Herd's Sting of Conscience._—In the longest and remotest ages of
the human race there was quite a different sting of conscience from that
of the present day. At present one only feels responsible for what one
intends and for what one does, and we have our pride in ourselves. All
our professors of jurisprudence start with this sentiment of individual
independence and pleasure, as if the source of right had taken its rise
here from the beginning. But throughout the longest period in the life
of mankind there was nothing more terrible to a person than to feel
himself independent. To be alone, to feel independent, neither to obey
nor to rule, to represent an individual—that was no pleasure to a person
then, but a punishment; he was condemned "to be an individual." Freedom
of thought was regarded as discomfort personified. While we feel law and
regulation as constraint and loss, people formerly regarded egoism as a
painful thing, and a veritable evil. For a person to be himself, to
value himself according to his own measure and weight—that was then
quite distasteful. The inclination to such a thing would have been
regarded as madness; for all miseries and terrors were associated with
being alone. At that time the "free will" had bad conscience in close
proximity to it; and the less independently a person acted, the more the
herd-instinct, and not his personal character, expressed itself in his
conduct, so much the more moral did he esteem himself. All that did
injury to the herd, whether the individual had intended it or not, then
caused him a sting of conscience—and his neighbour likewise, indeed the
whole herd!—It is in this respect that we have most changed our mode of
thinking.


                                  118.

_Benevolence._—Is it virtuous when a cell transforms itself into the
function of a stronger cell? It must do so. And is it wicked when the
stronger one assimilates the other? It must do so likewise: it is
necessary, for it has to have abundant indemnity and seeks to regenerate
itself. One has therefore to distinguish the instinct of appropriation,
and the instinct of submission, in benevolence, according as the
stronger or the weaker feels benevolent. Gladness and covetousness are
united in the stronger person, who wants to transform something to his
function: gladness and desire-to-be-coveted in the weaker person, who
would like to become a function.—The former case is essentially pity, a
pleasant excitation of the instinct of appropriation at the sight of the
weaker: it is to be remembered, however, that "strong" and "weak" are
relative conceptions.


                                  119.

_No Altruism!_—I see in many men an excessive impulse and delight in
wanting to be a function; they strive after it, and have the keenest
scent for all those positions in which precisely _they_ themselves can
be functions. Among such persons are those women who transform
themselves into just that function of a man that is but weakly developed
in him, and then become his purse, or his politics, or his social
intercourse. Such beings maintain themselves best when they insert
themselves in an alien organism; if they do not succeed they become
vexed, irritated, and eat themselves up.


                                  120.

_Health of the Soul._—The favourite medico-moral formula (whose
originator was Ariston of Chios), "Virtue is the health of the soul,"
would, at least in order to be used, have to be altered to this: "Thy
virtue is the health of thy soul." For there is no such thing as health
in itself, and all attempts to define a thing in that way have
lamentably failed. It is necessary to know thy aim, thy horizon, thy
powers, thy impulses, thy errors, and especially the ideals and
fantasies of thy soul, in order to determine _what_ health implies even
for thy _body_. There are consequently innumerable kinds of physical
health; and the more one again permits the unique and unparalleled to
raise its head, the more one unlearns the dogma of the "Equality of
men," so much the more also must the conception of a normal health,
together with a normal diet and a normal course of disease, be abrogated
by our physicians. And then only would it be time to turn our thoughts
to the health and disease of the _soul_ and make the special virtue of
everyone consist in its health; but, to be sure, what appeared as health
in one person might appear as the contrary of health in another. In the
end the great question might still remain open: whether we could _do
without_ sickness, even for the development of our virtue, and whether
our thirst for knowledge and self-knowledge would not especially need
the sickly soul as well as the sound one; in short, whether the mere
will to health is not a prejudice, a cowardice, and perhaps an instance
of the subtlest barbarism and unprogressiveness.


                                  121.

_Life no Argument._—We have arranged for ourselves a world in which we
can live—by the postulating of bodies, lines, surfaces, causes and
effects, motion and rest, form and content: without these articles of
faith no one could manage to live at present! But for all that they are
still unproved. Life is no argument; error might be among the conditions
of life.


                                  122.

_The Element of Moral Scepticism in Christianity._—Christianity also has
made a great contribution to enlightenment, and has taught moral
scepticism in a very impressive and effective manner—accusing and
embittering, but with untiring patience and subtlety; it annihilated in
every individual the belief in his virtues: it made the great virtuous
ones, of whom antiquity had no lack, vanish for ever from the earth,
those popular men, who, in the belief in their perfection, walked about
with the dignity of a hero of the bull-fight. When, trained in this
Christian school of scepticism, we now read the moral books of the
ancients, for example those of Seneca and Epictetus, we feel a
pleasurable superiority, and are full of secret insight and
penetration,—it seems to us as if a child talked before an old man, or a
pretty, gushing girl before La Rochefoucauld:—we know better what virtue
is! After all, however, we have applied the same scepticism to all
_religious_ states and processes, such as sin, repentance, grace,
sanctification, &c., and have allowed the worm to burrow so well, that
we have now the same feeling of subtle superiority and insight even in
reading all Christian books:—we know also the religious feelings better!
And it is time to know them well and describe them well, for the pious
ones of the old belief die out also; let us save their likeness and
type, at least for the sake of knowledge.


                                  123.

_Knowledge more than a Means._—Also _without_ this passion—I refer to
the passion for knowledge—science would be furthered: science has
hitherto increased and grown up without it. The good faith in science,
the prejudice in its favour, by which States are at present dominated
(it was even the Church formerly), rests fundamentally on the fact that
the absolute inclination and impulse has so rarely revealed itself in
it, and that science is regarded _not_ as a passion, but as a condition
and an "ethos." Indeed, _amour-plaisir_ of knowledge (curiosity) often
enough suffices, _amour-vanité_ suffices, and habituation to it, with
the afterthought of obtaining honour and bread; it even suffices for
many that they do not know what to do with a surplus of leisure, except
to continue reading, collecting, arranging, observing and narrating;
their "scientific impulse" is their ennui. Pope Leo X. once (in the
brief to Beroaldus) sang the praise of science; he designated it as the
finest ornament and the greatest pride of our life, a noble employment
in happiness and in misfortune; "without it," he says finally, "all
human undertakings would be without a firm basis,—even with it they are
still sufficiently mutable and insecure!" But this rather sceptical
Pope, like all other ecclesiastical panegyrists of science, suppressed
his ultimate judgment concerning it. If one may deduce from his words
what is remarkable enough for such a lover of art, that he places
science above art, it is after all, however, only from politeness that
he omits to speak of that which he places high above all science: the
"revealed truth," and the "eternal salvation of the soul,"—what are
ornament, pride, entertainment and security of life to him, in
comparison thereto? "Science is something of secondary rank, nothing
ultimate or unconditioned, no object of passion"—this judgment was kept
back in Leo's soul: the truly Christian judgment concerning science! In
antiquity its dignity and appreciation were lessened by the fact that,
even among its most eager disciples, the striving after _virtue_ stood
foremost, and that people thought they had given the highest praise to
knowledge when they celebrated it as the best means to virtue. It is
something new in history that knowledge claims to be more than a means.


                                  124.

_In the Horizon of the Infinite._—We have left the land and have gone
aboard ship! We have broken down the bridge behind us,—nay, more, the
land behind us! Well, little ship! look out! Beside thee is the ocean;
it is true it does not always roar, and sometimes it spreads out like
silk and gold and a gentle reverie. But times will come when thou wilt
feel that it is infinite, and that there is nothing more frightful than
infinity. Oh, the poor bird that felt itself free, and now strikes
against the walls of this cage! Alas, if homesickness for the land
should attack thee, as if there had been more _freedom_ there,—and there
is no "land" any longer!


                                  125.

_The Madman._—Have you ever heard of the madman who on a bright morning
lighted a lantern and ran to the market-place calling out unceasingly:
"I seek God! I seek God!"—As there were many people standing about who
did not believe in God, he caused a great deal of amusement. Why! is he
lost? said one. Has he strayed away like a child? said another. Or does
he keep himself hidden? Is he afraid of us? Has he taken a sea-voyage?
Has he emigrated?—the people cried out laughingly, all in a hubbub. The
insane man jumped into their midst and transfixed them with his glances.
"Where is God gone?" he called out. "I mean to tell you! _We have killed
him_,—you and I! We are all his murderers! But how have we done it? How
were we able to drink up the sea? Who gave us the sponge to wipe away
the whole horizon? What did we do when we loosened this earth from its
sun? Whither does it now move? Whither do we move? Away from all suns?
Do we not dash on unceasingly? Backwards, sideways, forwards, in all
directions? Is there still an above and below? Do we not stray, as
through infinite nothingness? Does not empty space breathe upon us? Has
it not become colder? Does not night come on continually, darker and
darker? Shall we not have to light lanterns in the morning? Do we not
hear the noise of the grave-diggers who are burying God? Do we not smell
the divine putrefaction?—for even Gods putrefy! God is dead! God remains
dead! And we have killed him! How shall we console ourselves, the most
murderous of all murderers? The holiest and the mightiest that the world
has hitherto possessed, has bled to death under our knife,—who will wipe
the blood from us? With what water could we cleanse ourselves? What
lustrums, what sacred games shall we have to devise? Is not the
magnitude of this deed too great for us? Shall we not ourselves have to
become Gods, merely to seem worthy of it? There never was a greater
event,—and on account of it, all who are born after us belong to a
higher history than any history hitherto!"—Here the madman was silent
and looked again at his hearers; they also were silent and looked at him
in surprise. At last he threw his lantern on the ground, so that it
broke in pieces and was extinguished. "I come too early," he then said,
"I am not yet at the right time. This prodigious event is still on its
way, and is travelling,—it has not yet reached men's ears. Lightning and
thunder need time, the light of the stars needs time, deeds need time,
even after they are done, to be seen and heard. This deed is as yet
further from them than the furthest star,—_and yet they have done
it!_"—It is further stated that the madman made his way into different
churches on the same day, and there intoned his _Requiem aeternam deo_.
When led out and called to account, he always gave the reply: "What are
these churches now, if they are not the tombs and monuments of God?"—


                                  126.

_Mystical Explanations._—Mystical explanations are regarded as profound;
the truth is that they do not even go the length of being superficial.


                                  127.

_After-Effect of the most Ancient Religiousness._—The thoughtless man
thinks that the Will is the only thing that operates, that willing is
something simple, manifestly given, underived, and comprehensible in
itself. He is convinced that when he does anything, for example, when he
delivers a blow, it is _he_ who strikes, and he has struck because he
_willed_ to strike. He does not notice anything of a problem therein,
but the feeling of _willing_ suffices to him, not only for the
acceptance of cause and effect, but also for the belief that he
_understands_ their relationship. Of the mechanism of the occurrence and
of the manifold subtle operations that must be performed in order that
the blow may result, and likewise of the incapacity of the Will in
itself to effect even the smallest part of those operations—he knows
nothing. The Will is to him a magically operating force; the belief in
the Will as the cause of effects is the belief in magically operating
forces. In fact, whenever he saw anything happen, man originally
believed in a Will as cause, and in personally _willing_ beings
operating in the background,—the conception of mechanism was very remote
from him. Because, however, man for immense periods of time believed
only in persons (and not in matter, forces, things, &c.), the belief in
cause and effect has become a fundamental belief with him, which he
applies everywhere when anything happens,—and even still uses
instinctively as a piece of atavism of remotest origin. The
propositions, "No effect without a cause," and "Every effect again
implies a cause," appear as generalisations of several less general
propositions:—"Where there is operation there has been _willing_,"
"Operating is only possible on _willing_ beings." "There is never a
pure, resultless experience of activity, but every experience involves
stimulation of the Will" (to activity, defence, revenge or retaliation).
But in the primitive period of the human race, the latter and the former
propositions were identical, the first were not generalisations of the
second, but the second were explanations of the first.—Schopenhauer,
with his assumption that all that exists is something _volitional_, has
set a primitive mythology on the throne; he seems never to have
attempted an analysis of the Will, because he _believed_ like everybody
in the simplicity and immediateness of all volition:—while volition is
in fact such a cleverly practised mechanical process that it almost
escapes the observing eye. I set the following propositions against
those of Schopenhauer:—Firstly, in order that Will may arise, an idea of
pleasure and pain is necessary. Secondly, that a vigorous excitation may
be felt as pleasure or pain, is the affair of the _interpreting_
intellect, which, to be sure, operates thereby for the most part
unconsciously to us, and one and the same excitation _may_ be
interpreted as pleasure or pain. Thirdly, it is only in an intellectual
being that there is pleasure, displeasure and Will; the immense majority
of organisms have nothing of the kind.


                                  128.

_The Value of Prayer._—Prayer has been devised for such men as have
never any thoughts of their own, and to whom an elevation of the soul is
unknown, or passes unnoticed; what shall these people do in holy places
and in all important situations in life which require repose and some
kind of dignity? In order at least that they may not _disturb_, the
wisdom of all the founders of religions, the small as well as the great,
has commended to them the formula of prayer, as a long mechanical labour
of the lips, united with an effort of the memory, and with a uniform,
prescribed attitude of hands and feet—_and_ eyes! They may then, like
the Tibetans, chew the cud of their "_om mane padme hum_," innumerable
times, or, as in Benares, count the name of God Ram-Ram-Ram (and so on,
with or without grace) on their fingers; or honour Vishnu with his
thousand names of invocation, Allah with his ninety-nine; or they may
make use of the prayer-wheels and the rosary: the main thing is that
they are settled down for a time at this work, and present a tolerable
appearance; their mode of prayer is devised for the advantage of the
pious who have thought and elevation of their own. But even these have
their weary hours when a series of venerable words and sounds and a
mechanical, pious ritual does them good. But supposing that these rare
men—in every religion the religious man is an exception—know how to help
themselves, the poor in spirit do not know, and to forbid them the
prayer-babbling would mean to take their religion from them, a fact
which Protestantism brings more and more to light. All that religion
wants with such persons is that they should _keep still_ with their
eyes, hands, legs, and all their organs: they thereby become temporarily
beautified and—more human-looking!


                                  129.

_The Conditions for God._—"God himself cannot subsist without wise men,"
said Luther, and with good reason; but "God can still less subsist
without unwise men,"—good Luther did not say that!


                                  130.

_A Dangerous Resolution._—The Christian resolution to find the world
ugly and bad has made the world ugly and bad.


                                  131.

_Christianity and Suicide._—Christianity made use of the excessive
longing for suicide at the time of its origin as a lever for its power:
it left only two forms of suicide, invested them with the highest
dignity and the highest hopes, and forbade all others in a dreadful
manner. But martyrdom and the slow self-annihilation of the ascetic were
permitted.


                                  132.

_Against Christianity._—It is now no longer our reason, but our taste
that decides against Christianity.


                                  133.

_Axioms._—An unavoidable hypothesis on which mankind must always fall
back again, is, in the long run, _more powerful_ than the most firmly
believed belief in something untrue (like the Christian belief). In the
long run: that means a hundred thousand years from now.


                                  134.

_Pessimists as Victims._—When a profound dislike of existence gets the
upper hand, the after-effect of a great error in diet of which a people
has been long guilty comes to light. The spread of Buddhism (_not_ its
origin) is thus to a considerable extent dependent on the excessive and
almost exclusive rice-fare of the Indians, and on the universal
enervation that results therefrom. Perhaps the modern, European
discontentedness is to be looked upon as caused by the fact that the
world of our forefathers, the whole Middle Ages, was given to drink,
owing to the influence of German tastes in Europe: the Middle Ages, that
means the alcoholic poisoning of Europe.—The German dislike of life
(including the influence of the cellar-air and stove-poison in German
dwellings), is essentially a cold-weather complaint.


                                  135.

_Origin of Sin._—Sin, as it is at present felt wherever Christianity
prevails or has prevailed, is a Jewish feeling and a Jewish invention;
and in respect to this background of all Christian morality,
Christianity has in fact aimed at "Judaising" the whole world. To what
an extent this has succeeded in Europe is traced most accurately in the
extent of our alienness to Greek antiquity—a world without the feeling
of sin—in our sentiments even at present; in spite of all the good will
to approximation and assimilation, which whole generations and many
distinguished individuals have not failed to display. "Only when thou
_repentest_ is God gracious to thee"—that would arouse the laughter or
the wrath of a Greek: he would say, "Slaves may have such sentiments."
Here a mighty being, an almighty being, and yet a revengeful being, is
presupposed; his power is so great that no injury whatever can be done
to him, except in the point of honour. Every sin is an infringement of
respect, a _crimen læsæ majestatis divinæ_—and nothing more! Contrition,
degradation, rolling-in-the-dust,—these are the first and last
conditions on which his favour depends: the restoration, therefore, of
his divine honour! If injury be caused otherwise by sin, if a profound,
spreading evil be propagated by it, an evil which, like a disease,
attacks and strangles one man after another—that does not trouble this
honour-craving Oriental in heaven; sin is an offence against him, not
against mankind!—to him on whom he has bestowed his favour he bestows
also this indifference to the natural consequences of sin. God and
mankind are here thought of as separated, as so antithetical that sin
against the latter cannot be at all possible,—all deeds are to be looked
upon _solely with respect to their supernatural consequences_, and not
with respect to their natural results: it is thus that the Jewish
feeling, to which all that is natural seems unworthy in itself, would
have things. The _Greeks_, on the other hand, were more familiar with
the thought that transgression also may have dignity,—even theft, as in
the case of Prometheus, even the slaughtering of cattle as the
expression of frantic jealousy, as in the case of Ajax; in their need to
attribute dignity to transgression and embody it therein, they invented
_tragedy_,—an art and a delight, which in its profoundest essence has
remained alien to the Jew, in spite of all his poetic endowment and
taste for the sublime.


                                  136.

_The Chosen People._—The Jews, who regard themselves as the chosen
people among the nations, and that too because they are the moral genius
among the nations (in virtue of their capacity for _despising_ the human
in themselves _more_ than any other people)—the Jews have a pleasure in
their divine monarch and saint similar to that which the French nobility
had in Louis XIV. This nobility had allowed its power and autocracy to
be taken from it, and had become contemptible: in order not to feel
this, in order to be able to forget it, an _unequalled_ royal
magnificence, royal authority and plenitude of power was needed, to
which there was access only for the nobility. As in accordance with this
privilege they raised themselves to the elevation of the court, and from
that elevation saw everything under them,—saw everything
contemptible,—they got beyond all uneasiness of conscience. They thus
elevated intentionally the tower of the royal power more and more into
the clouds, and set the final coping-stone of their own power thereon.


                                  137.

_Spoken in Parable._—A Jesus Christ was only possible in a Jewish
landscape—I mean in one over which the gloomy and sublime thunder-cloud
of the angry Jehovah hung continually. Here only was the rare, sudden
flashing of a single sunbeam through the dreadful, universal and
continuous nocturnal-day regarded as a miracle of "love," as a beam of
the most unmerited "grace." Here only could Christ dream of his rainbow
and celestial ladder on which God descended to man; everywhere else the
clear weather and the sun were considered the rule and the commonplace.


                                  138.

_The Error of Christ._—The founder of Christianity thought there was
nothing from which men suffered so much as from their sins:—it was his
error, the error of him who felt himself without sin, to whom experience
was lacking in this respect! It was thus that his soul filled with that
marvellous, fantastic pity which had reference to a trouble that even
among his own people, the inventors of sin, was rarely a great trouble!
But Christians understood subsequently how to do justice to their
master, and to sanctify his error into a "truth."


                                  139.

_Colour of the Passions._—Natures such as the apostle Paul, have an evil
eye for the passions; they learn to know only the filthy, the
distorting, and the heart-breaking in them,—their ideal aim, therefore,
is the annihilation of the passions; in the divine they see complete
purification from passion. The Greeks, quite otherwise than Paul and the
Jews, directed their ideal aim precisely to the passions, and loved,
elevated, embellished and deified them: in passion they evidently not
only felt themselves happier, but also purer and diviner than
otherwise.—And now the Christians? Have they wished to become Jews in
this respect? Have they perhaps become Jews!


                                  140.

_Too Jewish._—If God had wanted to become an object of love, he would
first of all have had to forgo judging and justice:—a judge, and even a
gracious judge, is no object of love. The founder of Christianity showed
too little of the finer feelings in this respect—being a Jew.


                                  141.

_Too Oriental._—What? A God who loves men, provided that they believe in
him, and who hurls frightful glances and threatenings at him who does
not believe in this love! What? A conditioned love as the feeling of an
almighty God! A love which has not even become master of the sentiment
of honour and of the irritable desire for vengeance! How Oriental is all
that! "If I love thee, what does it concern thee?"[9] is already a
sufficient criticism of the whole of Christianity.


                                  142.

_Frankincense._—Buddha says: "Do not flatter thy benefactor!" Let one
repeat this saying in a Christian church:—it immediately purifies the
air of all Christianity.


                                  143.

_The Greatest Utility of Polytheism._—For the individual to set up his
_own_ ideal and derive from it his laws, his pleasures and his
rights—_that_ has perhaps been hitherto regarded as the most monstrous
of all human aberrations, and as idolatry in itself; in fact, the few
who have ventured to do this have always needed to apologise to
themselves, usually in this wise: "Not I! not I! but _a God_, through my
instrumentality!" It was in the marvellous art and capacity for creating
Gods—in polytheism—that this impulse was permitted to discharge itself,
it was here that it became purified, perfected, and ennobled; for it was
originally a commonplace and unimportant impulse, akin to stubbornness,
disobedience and envy. To be _hostile_ to this impulse towards the
individual ideal,—that was formerly the law of every morality. There was
then only one norm, "the man"—and every people believed that it _had_
this one and ultimate norm. But above himself, and outside of himself,
in a distant over-world, a person could see a _multitude of norms_: the
one God was not the denial or blasphemy of the other Gods! It was here
that individuals were first permitted, it was here that the right of
individuals was first respected. The inventing of Gods, heroes and
supermen of all kinds, as well as co-ordinate men and undermen—dwarfs,
fairies, centaurs, satyrs, demons, devils—was the inestimable
preliminary to the justification of the selfishness and sovereignty of
the individual: the freedom which was granted to one God in respect to
other Gods, was at last given to the individual himself in respect to
laws, customs and neighbours. Monotheism, on the contrary, the rigid
consequence of the doctrine of one normal human being—consequently the
belief in a normal God, beside whom there are only false, spurious
Gods—has perhaps been the greatest danger of mankind in the past: man
was then threatened by that premature state of inertia, which, so far as
we can see, most of the other species of animals reached long ago, as
creatures who all believe in one normal animal and ideal in their
species, and definitely translated their morality of custom into flesh
and blood. In polytheism man's free-thinking and many-sided thinking had
a prototype set up: the power to create for himself new and individual
eyes, always newer and more individualised: so that it is for man alone,
of all the animals, that there are no _eternal_ horizons and
perspectives.


                                  144.

_Religious Wars._—The greatest advance of the masses hitherto has been
religious war, for it proves that the masses have begun to deal
reverently with conceptions of things. Religious wars only result, when
human reason generally has been refined by the subtle disputes of sects;
so that even the populace becomes punctilious and regards trifles as
important, actually thinking it possible that the "eternal salvation of
the soul" may depend upon minute distinctions of concepts.


                                  145.

_Danger of Vegetarians._—The immense prevalence of rice-eating impels to
the use of opium and narcotics, in like manner as the immense prevalence
of potato-eating impels to the use of brandy:—it also impels, however,
in its more subtle after-effects to modes of thought and feeling which
operate narcotically. This is in accord with the fact that those who
promote narcotic modes of thought and feeling, like those Indian
teachers, praise a purely vegetable diet, and would like to make it a
law for the masses: they want thereby to call forth and augment the need
which _they_ are in a position to satisfy.


                                  146.

_German Hopes._—Do not let us forget that the names of peoples are
generally names of reproach. The Tartars, for example, according to
their name, are "the dogs"; they were so christened by the Chinese.
"_Deutschen_" (Germans) means originally "heathen": it is thus that the
Goths after their conversion named the great mass of their unbaptized
fellow-tribes, according to the indication in their translation of the
Septuagint, in which the heathen are designated by the word which in
Greek signifies "the nations." (See Ulfilas.)—It might still be possible
for the Germans to make an honourable name ultimately out of their old
name of reproach, by becoming the first _non-Christian_ nation of
Europe; for which purpose Schopenhauer, to their honour, regarded them
as highly qualified. The work of _Luther_ would thus be consummated,—he
who taught them to be anti-Roman and to say: "Here _I_ stand! _I_ cannot
do otherwise!"—


                                  147.

_Question and Answer._—What do savage tribes at present accept first of
all from Europeans? Brandy and Christianity, the European narcotics.—And
by what means are they fastest ruined?—By the European narcotics.


                                  148.

_Where Reformations Originate._—At the time of the great corruption of
the church it was least of all corrupt in Germany: it was on that
account that the Reformation originated _here_, as a sign that even the
beginnings of corruption were felt to be unendurable. For, comparatively
speaking, no people was ever more Christian than the Germans at the time
of Luther; their Christian culture was just about to burst into bloom
with a hundred-fold splendour,—one night only was still lacking; but
that night brought the storm which put an end to all.


                                  149.

_The Failure of Reformations._—It testifies to the higher culture of the
Greeks, even in rather early ages, that attempts to establish new
Grecian religions frequently failed; it testifies that quite early there
must have been a multitude of dissimilar individuals in Greece, whose
dissimilar troubles were not cured by a single recipe of faith and hope.
Pythagoras and Plato, perhaps also Empedocles, and already much earlier
the Orphic enthusiasts, aimed at founding new religions; and the two
first-named were so endowed with the qualifications for founding
religions, that one cannot be sufficiently astonished at their failure:
they just reached the point of founding sects. Every time that the
Reformation of an entire people fails and only sects raise their heads,
one may conclude that the people already contains many types, and has
begun to free itself from the gross herding instincts and the morality
of custom,—a momentous state of suspense, which one is accustomed to
disparage as decay of morals and corruption, while it announces the
maturing of the egg and the early rupture of the shell. That Luther's
Reformation succeeded in the north, is a sign that the north had
remained backward in comparison with the south of Europe, and still had
requirements tolerably uniform in colour and kind; and there would have
been no Christianising of Europe at all, if the culture of the old world
of the south had not been gradually barbarized by an excessive admixture
of the blood of German barbarians, and thus lost its ascendency. The
more universally and unconditionally an individual, or the thought of an
individual, can operate, so much more homogeneous and so much lower must
be the mass that is there operated upon; while counter-strivings betray
internal counter-requirements, which also want to gratify and realise
themselves. Reversely, one may always conclude with regard to an actual
elevation of culture, when powerful and ambitious natures only produce a
limited and sectarian effect: this is true also for the separate arts,
and for the provinces of knowledge. Where there is ruling there are
masses: where there are masses there is need of slavery. Where there is
slavery the individuals are but few, and have the instincts and
conscience of the herd opposed to them.


                                  150.

_Criticism of Saints._—Must one then, in order to have a virtue, be
desirous of having it precisely in its most brutal form?—as the
Christian saints desired and needed;—those who only _endured_ life with
the thought that at the sight of their virtue self-contempt might seize
every man. A virtue with such an effect I call brutal.


                                  151.

_The Origin of Religion._—The metaphysical requirement is not the origin
of religions, as Schopenhauer claims, but only a _later sprout_ from
them. Under the dominance of religious thoughts we have accustomed
ourselves to the idea of "another (back, under, or upper) world," and
feel an uncomfortable void and privation through the annihilation of the
religious illusion;—and then "another world" grows out of this feeling
once more, but now it is only a metaphysical world, and no longer a
religious one. That however which in general led to the assumption of
"another world" in primitive times, was _not_ an impulse or requirement,
but an _error_ in the interpretation of certain natural phenomena, a
difficulty of the intellect.


                                  152.

_The greatest Change._—The lustre and the hues of all things have
changed! We no longer quite understand how earlier men conceived of the
most familiar and frequent things,—for example, of the day, and the
awakening in the morning: owing to their belief in dreams the waking
state seemed to them differently illuminated. And similarly of the whole
of life, with its reflection of death and its significance: our "death"
is an entirely different death. All events were of a different lustre,
for a God shone forth in them; and similarly of all resolutions and
peeps into the distant future: for people had oracles, and secret hints,
and believed in prognostication. "Truth" was conceived in quite a
different manner, for the insane could formerly be regarded as its
mouthpiece—a thing which makes _us_ shudder, or laugh. Injustice made a
different impression on the feelings: for people were afraid of divine
retribution, and not only of legal punishment and disgrace. What joy was
there in an age when men believed in the devil and tempter! What passion
was there when people saw demons lurking close at hand! What philosophy
was there when doubt was regarded as sinfulness of the most dangerous
kind, and in fact as an outrage on eternal love, as distrust of
everything good, high, pure, and compassionate!—We have coloured things
anew, we paint them over continually,—but what have we been able to do
hitherto in comparison with the _splendid colouring_ of that old
master!—I mean ancient humanity.


                                  153.

_Homo poeta._—"I myself who have made this tragedy of tragedies
altogether independently, in so far as it is completed; I who have first
entwined the perplexities of morality about existence, and have
tightened them so that only a God could unravel them—so Horace
demands!—I have already in the fourth act killed all the Gods—for the
sake of morality! What is now to be done about the fifth act? Where
shall I get the tragic _dénouement_! Must I now think about a comic
_dénouement_?"


                                  154.

_Differences in the Dangerousness of Life._—You don't know at all what
you experience; you run through life as if intoxicated, and now and then
fall down a stair. Thanks however to your intoxication you still do not
break your limbs: your muscles are too languid and your head too
confused to find the stones of the staircase as hard as we others do!
For us life is a greater danger: we are made of glass—alas, if we should
_strike against_ anything! And all is lost if we should _fall_!


                                  155.

_What we Lack._—We love the _grandeur_ of Nature and have discovered it;
that is because human grandeur is lacking in our minds. It was the
reverse with the Greeks: their feeling towards Nature was quite
different from ours.


                                  156.

_The most Influential Person._—The fact that a person resists the whole
spirit of his age, stops it at the door, and calls it to account, _must_
exert an influence! It is indifferent whether he wishes to exert an
influence; the point is that he _can_.


                                  157.

_Mentiri._—Take care!—he reflects: he will have a lie ready immediately.
This is a stage in the civilisation of whole nations. Consider only what
the Romans expressed by _mentiri_!


                                  158.

_An Inconvenient Peculiarity._—To find everything deep is an
inconvenient peculiarity: it makes one constantly strain one's eyes, so
that in the end one always finds more than one wishes.


                                  159.

_Every Virtue has its Time._—The honesty of him who is at present
inflexible often causes him remorse; for inflexibility is the virtue of
a time different from that in which honesty prevails.


                                  160.

_In Intercourse with Virtues._—One can also be undignified and
flattering towards a virtue.


                                  161.

_To the Admirers of the Age._—The runaway priest and the liberated
criminal are continually making grimaces; what they want is a look
without a past.—But have you ever seen men who know that their looks
reflect the future, and who are so courteous to you, the admirers of the
"age," that they assume a look without a future.


                                  162.

_Egoism._—Egoism is the _perspective_ law of our sentiment, according to
which the near appears large and momentous, while in the distance the
magnitude and importance of all things diminish.


                                  163.

_After a Great Victory._—The best thing in a great victory is that it
deprives the conqueror of the fear of defeat. "Why should I not be
worsted for once?" he says to himself, "I am now rich enough to stand
it."


                                  164.

_Those who Seek Repose._—I recognise the minds that seek repose by the
many _dark_ objects with which they surround themselves: those who want
to sleep darken their chambers, or creep into caverns. A hint to those
who do not know what they really seek most, and would like to know!


                                  165.

_The Happiness of Renunciation._—He who has absolutely dispensed with
something for a long time will almost imagine, when he accidentally
meets with it again, that he has discovered it,—and what happiness every
discoverer has! Let us be wiser than the serpents that lie too long in
the same sunshine.


                                  166.

_Always in our own Society._—All that is akin to me in nature and
history speaks to me, praises me, urges me forward and comforts me—:
other things are unheard by me, or immediately forgotten. We are only in
our own society always.


                                  167.

_Misanthropy and Philanthropy._—We only speak about being sick of men
when we can no longer digest them, and yet have the stomach full of
them. Misanthropy is the result of a far too eager philanthropy and
"cannibalism,"—but who ever bade you swallow men like oysters, my Prince
Hamlet!


                                  168.

_Concerning an Invalid._—"Things go badly with him!"—What is wrong?—"He
suffers from the longing to be praised, and finds no sustenance for
it."—Inconceivable! All the world does honour to him, and he is
reverenced not only in deed but in word!—"Certainly, but he is dull of
hearing for the praise. When a friend praises him it sounds to him as if
the friend praised himself; when an enemy praises him, it sounds to him
as if the enemy wanted to be praised for it; when, finally, some one
else praises him—there are by no means so many of these, he is so
famous!—he is offended because they neither want him for a friend nor
for an enemy; he is accustomed to say: 'What do I care for those who can
still pose as the all-righteous towards me!'"


                                  169.

_Avowed Enemies._—Bravery in presence of an enemy is a thing by itself:
a person may possess it and still be a coward and an irresolute
numskull. That was Napoleon's opinion concerning the "bravest man" he
knew, Murat:—whence it follows that avowed enemies are indispensable to
some men, if they are to attain to _their_ virtue, to their manliness,
to their cheerfulness.


                                  170.

_With the Multitude._—He has hitherto gone with the multitude and is its
panegyrist; but one day he will be its opponent! For he follows it in
the belief that his laziness will find its advantage thereby; he has not
yet learned that the multitude is not lazy enough for him! that it
always presses forward! that it does not allow any one to stand
still!—And he likes so well to stand still!


                                  171.

_Fame._—When the gratitude of many to one casts aside all shame, then
fame originates.


                                  172.

_The Perverter of Taste._—A: "You are a perverter of taste—they say so
everywhere!" B: "Certainly! I pervert every one's taste for his
party:—no party forgives me for that."


                                  173.

_To be Profound and to Appear Profound._—He who knows that he is
profound strives for clearness; he who would like to appear profound to
the multitude strives for obscurity. The multitude thinks everything
profound of which it cannot see the bottom; it is so timid and goes so
unwillingly into the water.


                                  174.

_Apart._—Parliamentarism, that is to say, the public permission to
choose between five main political opinions, insinuates itself into the
favour of the numerous class who would fain _appear_ independent and
individual, and like to fight for their opinions. After all, however, it
is a matter of indifference whether one opinion is imposed upon the
herd, or five opinions are permitted to it.—He who diverges from the
five public opinions and goes apart, has always the whole herd against
him.


                                  175.

_Concerning Eloquence._—What has hitherto had the most convincing
eloquence? The rolling of the drum: and as long as kings have this at
their command, they will always be the best orators and popular leaders.


                                  176.

_Compassion._—The poor, ruling princes! All their rights now change
unexpectedly into claims, and all these claims immediately sound like
pretensions! And if they but say "we," or "my people," wicked old Europe
begins laughing. Verily, a chief-master-of-ceremonies of the modern
world would make little ceremony with them; perhaps he would decree that
"_les souverains rangent aux parvenus_."


                                  177.

_On "Educational Matters."_—In Germany an important educational means is
lacking for higher men; namely, the laughter of higher men; these men do
not laugh in Germany.


                                  178.

_For Moral Enlightenment._—The Germans must be talked out of their
Mephistopheles—and out of their Faust also. These are two moral
prejudices against the value of knowledge.


                                  179.

_Thoughts._—Thoughts are the shadows of our sentiments—always, however,
obscurer, emptier, and simpler.


                                  180.

_The Good Time for Free Spirits._—Free Spirits take liberties even with
regard to Science—and meanwhile they are allowed to do so,—while the
Church still remains!—In so far they have now their good time.


                                  181.

_Following and Leading._—A: "Of the two, the one will always follow, the
other will always lead, whatever be the course of their destiny. _And
yet_ the former is superior to the other in virtue and intellect." B:
"And yet? And yet? That is spoken for the others; not for me, not for
us!—_Fit secundum regulam._"


                                  182.

_In Solitude._—When one lives alone one does not speak too loudly, and
one does not write too loudly either, for one fears the hollow
reverberation—the criticism of the nymph Echo.—And all voices sound
differently in solitude!


                                  183.

_The Music of the Best Future._—The first musician for me would be he
who knew only the sorrow of the profoundest happiness, and no other
sorrow: there has not hitherto been such a musician.


                                  184.

_Justice._—Better allow oneself to be robbed than have scarecrows around
one—that is my taste. And under all circumstances it is just a matter of
taste—and nothing more!


                                  185.

_Poor._—He is now poor, but not because everything has been taken from
him, but because he has thrown everything away:—what does he care? He is
accustomed to find new things.—It is the poor who misunderstand his
voluntary poverty.


                                  186.

_Bad Conscience._—All that he now does is excellent and proper—and yet
he has a bad conscience with it all. For the exceptional is his task.


                                  187.

_Offensiveness in Expression._—This artist offends me by the way in
which he expresses his ideas, his very excellent ideas: so diffusely and
forcibly, and with such gross rhetorical artifices, as if he were
speaking to the mob. We feel always as if "in bad company" when devoting
some time to his art.


                                  188.

_Work._—How close work and the workers now stand even to the most
leisurely of us! The royal courtesy in the words: "We are all workers,"
would have been a cynicism and an indecency even under Louis XIV.


                                  189.

_The Thinker._—He is a thinker: that is to say, he knows how to take
things more simply than they are.


                                  190.

_Against Eulogisers._—A: "One is only praised by one's equals!" B: "Yes!
And he who praises you says: 'You are my equal!'"


                                  191.

_Against many a Vindication._—The most perfidious manner of injuring a
cause is to vindicate it intentionally with fallacious arguments.


                                  192.

_The Good-natured._—What is it that distinguishes the good-natured,
whose countenances beam kindness, from other people? They feel quite at
ease in presence of a new person, and are quickly enamoured of him; they
therefore wish him well; their first opinion is: "He pleases me." With
them there follow in succession the wish to appropriate (they make
little scruple about the person's worth), rapid appropriation, joy in
the possession, and actions in favour of the person possessed.


                                  193.

_Kant's Joke._—Kant tried to prove, in a way that dismayed "everybody,"
that "everybody" was in the right:—that was his secret joke. He wrote
against the learned, in favour of popular prejudice; he wrote, however,
for the learned and not for the people.


                                  194.

_The "Open-hearted" Man._—That man acts probably always from concealed
motives; for he has always communicable motives on his tongue, and
almost in his open hand.


                                  195.

_Laughable!_—See! See! He runs _away_ from men—: they follow him,
however, because he runs _before_ them,—they are such a gregarious lot!


                                  196.

_The Limits of our Sense of Hearing._—We hear only the questions to
which we are capable of finding an answer.


                                  197.

_Caution therefore!_—There is nothing we are fonder of communicating to
others than the seal of secrecy—together with what is under it.


                                  198.

_Vexation of the Proud Man._—The proud man is vexed even with those who
help him forward: he looks angrily at his carriage-horses!


                                  199.

_Liberality._—Liberality is often only a form of timidity in the rich.


                                  200.

_Laughing._—To laugh means to love mischief, but with a good conscience.


                                  201.

_In Applause._—In applause there is always some kind of noise: even in
self-applause.


                                  202.

_A Spendthrift._—He has not yet the poverty of the rich man who has
counted all his treasure,—he squanders his spirit with the
irrationalness of the spendthrift Nature.


                                  203.

_Hic niger est._—Usually he has no thoughts,—but in exceptional cases
bad thoughts come to him.


                                  204.

_Beggars and Courtesy._—"One is not discourteous when one knocks at a
door with a stone when the bell-pull is awanting"—so think all beggars
and necessitous persons, but no one thinks they are in the right.


                                  205.

_Need._—Need is supposed to be the cause of things; but in truth it is
often only the effect of the things themselves.


                                  206.

_During the Rain._—It rains, and I think of the poor people who now
crowd together with their many cares, which they are unaccustomed to
conceal; all of them, therefore, ready and anxious to give pain to one
another, and thus provide themselves with a pitiable kind of comfort,
even in bad weather. This, this only, is the poverty of the poor!


                                  207.

_The Envious Man._—That is an envious man—it is not desirable that he
should have children; he would be envious of them, because he can no
longer be a child.


                                  208.

_A Great Man!_—Because a person is "a great man," we are not authorised
to infer that he is a man. Perhaps he is only a boy, or a chameleon of
all ages, or a bewitched girl.


                                  209.

_A Mode of Asking for Reasons._—There is a mode of asking for our
reasons which not only makes us forget our best reasons, but also
arouses in us a spite and repugnance against reason generally:—a very
stupefying mode of questioning, and properly an artifice of tyrannical
men!


                                  210.

_Moderation in Diligence._—One must not be anxious to surpass the
diligence of one's father—that would make one ill.


                                  211.

_Secret Enemies._—To be able to keep a secret enemy—that is a luxury
which the morality even of the highest-minded persons can rarely afford.


                                  212.

_Not Letting oneself be Deluded._—His spirit has bad manners, it is
hasty and always stutters with impatience; so that one would hardly
suspect the deep breathing and the large chest of the soul in which it
resides.


                                  213.

_The Way to Happiness._—A sage asked of a fool the way to happiness. The
fool answered without delay, like one who had been asked the way to the
next town: "Admire yourself, and live on the street!" "Hold," cried the
sage, "you require too much; it suffices to admire oneself!" The fool
replied: "But how can one constantly admire without constantly
despising?"


                                  214.

_Faith Saves._—Virtue gives happiness and a state of blessedness only to
those who have a strong faith in their virtue:—not, however, to the more
refined souls whose virtue consists of a profound distrust of themselves
and of all virtue. After all, therefore, it is "faith that saves" here
also!—and be it well observed, _not_ virtue!


                                  215.

_The Ideal and the Material._—You have a noble ideal before your eyes:
but are you also such a noble stone that such a divine image could be
formed out of you? And without that—is not all your labour barbaric
sculpturing? A blasphemy of your ideal!


                                  216.

_Danger in the Voice._—With a very loud voice a person is almost
incapable of reflecting on subtle matters.


                                  217.

_Cause and Effect._—Before the effect one believes in other causes than
after the effect.


                                  218.

_My Antipathy._—I do not like those people who, in order to produce an
effect, have to burst like bombs, and in whose neighbourhood one is
always in danger of suddenly losing one's hearing—or even something
more.


                                  219.

_The Object of Punishment._—The object of punishment is to improve him
_who punishes_,—that is the ultimate appeal of those who justify
punishment.


                                  220.

_Sacrifice._—The victims think otherwise than the spectators about
sacrifice and sacrificing: but they have never been allowed to express
their opinion.


                                  221.

_Consideration._—Fathers and sons are much more considerate of one
another than mothers and daughters.


                                  222.

_Poet and Liar._—The poet sees in the liar his foster-brother whose milk
he has drunk up; the latter has thus remained wretched, and has not even
attained to a good conscience.


                                  223.

_Vicariousness of the Senses._—"We have also eyes in order to hear with
them,"—said an old confessor who had grown deaf; "and among the blind he
that has the longest ears is king."


                                  224.

_Animal Criticism._—I fear the animals regard man as a being like
themselves, very seriously endangered by a loss of sound animal
understanding;—they regard him perhaps as the absurd animal, the
laughing animal, the crying animal, the unfortunate animal.


                                  225.

_The Natural._—"Evil has always had the great effect! And Nature is
evil! Let us therefore be natural!"—so reason secretly the great
aspirants after effect, who are too often counted among great men.


                                  226.

_The Distrustful and their Style._—We say the strongest things simply,
provided people are about us who believe in our strength:—such an
environment educates to "simplicity of style." The distrustful, on the
other hand, speak emphatically; they make things emphatic.


                                  227.

_Fallacy, Fallacy._—He cannot rule himself; therefore that woman
concludes that it will be easy to rule him, and throws out her lines to
catch him;—the poor creature, who in a short time will be his slave.


                                  228.

_Against Mediators._—He who attempts to mediate between two decided
thinkers is rightly called mediocre: he has not an eye for seeing the
unique; similarising and equalising are signs of weak eyes.


                                  229.

_Obstinacy and Loyalty._—Out of obstinacy he holds fast to a cause of
which the questionableness has become obvious,—he calls that, however,
his "loyalty."


                                  230.

_Lack of Reserve._—His whole nature fails to _convince_—that results
from the fact that he has never been reticent about a good action he has
performed.


                                  231.

_The "Plodders."_—Persons slow of apprehension think that slowness forms
part of knowledge.


                                  232.

_Dreaming._—Either one does not dream at all, or one dreams in an
interesting manner. One must learn to be awake in the same
fashion:—either not at all, or in an interesting manner.


                                  233.

_The most Dangerous Point of View._—What I now do, or neglect to do, is
as important _for all that is to come_, as the greatest event of the
past: in this immense perspective of effects all actions are equally
great and small.


                                  234.

_Consolatory Words of a Musician._—"Your life does not sound into
people's ears: for them you live a dumb life, and all refinements of
melody, all fond resolutions in following or leading the way, are
concealed from them. To be sure you do not parade the thoroughfares with
regimental music,—but these good people have no right to say on that
account that your life is lacking in music. He that hath ears let him
hear."


                                  235.

_Spirit and Character._—Many a one attains his full height of character,
but his spirit is not adapted to the elevation,—and many a one
reversely.


                                  236.

_To Move the Multitude._—Is it not necessary for him who wants to move
the multitude to give a stage representation of himself? Has he not
first to translate himself into the grotesquely obvious, and then _set
forth_ his whole personality and cause in that vulgarised and simplified
fashion!


                                  237.

_The Polite Man._—"He is so polite!"—Yes, he has always a sop for
Cerberus with him, and is so timid that he takes everybody for Cerberus,
even you and me,—that is his "politeness."


                                  238.

_Without Envy._—He is wholly without envy, but there is no merit
therein: for he wants to conquer a land which no one has yet possessed
and hardly any one has even seen.


                                  239.

_The Joyless Person._—A single joyless person is enough to make constant
displeasure and a clouded heaven in a household; and it is only by a
miracle that such a person is lacking!—Happiness is not nearly such a
contagious disease;—how is that!


                                  240.

_On the Sea-Shore._—I would not build myself a house (it is an element
of my happiness not to be a house-owner!). If I had to do so, however, I
should build it, like many of the Romans, right into the sea,—I should
like to have some secrets in common with that beautiful monster.


                                  241.

_Work and Artist._—This artist is ambitious and nothing more;
ultimately, however, his work is only a magnifying glass, which he
offers to every one who looks in his direction.


                                  242.

_Suum cuique._—However great be my greed of knowledge, I cannot
appropriate aught of things but what already belongs to me,—the property
of others still remains in the things. How is it possible for a man to
be a thief or a robber!


                                  243.

_Origin of "Good" and "Bad."_—He only will devise an improvement who can
feel that "this is not good."


                                  244.

_Thoughts and Words._—Even our thoughts we are unable to render
completely in words.


                                  245.

_Praise in Choice._—The artist chooses his subjects; that is his mode of
praising.


                                  246.

_Mathematics._—We want to carry the refinement and rigour of mathematics
into all the sciences, as far as it is in any way possible, not in the
belief that we shall apprehend things in this way, but in order thereby
to _assert_ our human relation to things. Mathematics is only a means to
general and ultimate human knowledge.


                                  247.

_Habits._—All habits make our hand wittier and our wit unhandier.


                                  248.

_Books._—Of what account is a book that never carries us away beyond all
books!


                                  249.

_The Sigh of the Seeker of Knowledge._—"Oh, my covetousness! In this
soul there is no disinterestedness—but an all-desiring self, which, by
means of many individuals, would fain see as with _its own_ eyes, and
grasp as with _its own_ hands—a self bringing back even the entire past,
and wanting to lose nothing that could in any way belong to it! Oh, this
flame of my covetousness! Oh, that I were reincarnated in a hundred
individuals!"—He who does not know this sigh by experience, does not
know the passion of the seeker of knowledge either.


                                  250.

_Guilt._—Although the most intelligent judges of the witches, and even
the witches themselves, were convinced of the guilt of witchcraft, the
guilt, nevertheless, was not there. So it is with all guilt.


                                  251.

_Misunderstood Sufferers._—Great natures suffer otherwise than their
worshippers imagine; they suffer most severely from the ignoble, petty
emotions of certain evil moments; in short, from doubt of their own
greatness;—not however from the sacrifices and martyrdoms which their
tasks require of them. As long as Prometheus sympathises with men and
sacrifices himself for them, he is happy and proud in himself; but on
becoming envious of Zeus and of the homage which mortals pay him—then
Prometheus suffers!


                                  252.

_Better to be in Debt._—"Better to remain in debt than to pay with money
which does not bear our stamp!"—that is what our sovereignty prefers.


                                  253.

_Always at Home._—One day we attain our _goal_—and then refer with pride
to the long journeys we have made to reach it. In truth, we did not
notice that we travelled. We got into the habit of thinking that we were
_at home_ in every place.


                                  254.

_Against Embarrassment._—He who is always thoroughly occupied is rid of
all embarrassment.


                                  255.

_Imitators._—A: "What? You don't want to have imitators?" B: "I don't
want people to do anything _after_ me; I want every one to do something
_before_ himself (as a pattern to himself)—just as _I_ do." A:
"Consequently—?"


                                  256.

_Skinniness._—All profound men have their happiness in imitating the
flying-fish for once, and playing on the crests of the waves; they think
that what is best of all in things is their surface: their
skinniness—_sit venia verbo_.


                                  257.

_From Experience._—A person often does not know how rich he is, until he
learns from experience what rich men even play the thief on him.


                                  258.

_The Deniers of Chance._—No conqueror believes in chance.


                                  259.

_From Paradise._—"Good and Evil are God's prejudices"—said the serpent.


                                  260.

_One times One._—One only is always in the wrong, but with two truth
begins.—One only cannot prove himself right; but two are already beyond
refutation.


                                  261.

_Originality._—What is originality? To _see_ something that does not yet
bear a name, that cannot yet be named, although it is before everybody's
eyes. As people are usually constituted, it is the name that first makes
a thing generally visible to them.—Original persons have also for the
most part been the namers of things.


                                  262.

_Sub specie aeterni._—A: "You withdraw faster and faster from the
living; they will soon strike you out of their lists!"—B: "It is the
only way to participate in the privilege of the dead." A: "In what
privilege?"—B: "No longer having to die."


                                  263.

_Without Vanity._—When we love we want our defects to remain
concealed,—not out of vanity, but lest the person loved should suffer
therefrom. Indeed, the lover would like to appear as a God,—and not out
of vanity either.


                                  264.

_What we Do._—What we do is never understood, but only praised and
blamed.


                                  265.

_Ultimate Scepticism._—But what after all are man's truths?—They are his
_irrefutable_ errors.


                                  266.

_Where Cruelty is Necessary._—He who is great is cruel to his
second-rate virtues and judgments.


                                  267.

_With a high Aim._—With a high aim a person is superior even to justice,
and not only to his deeds and his judges.


                                  268.

_What makes Heroic?_—To face simultaneously one's greatest suffering and
one's highest hope.


                                  269.

_What dost thou Believe in?_—In this: That the weights of all things
must be determined anew.


                                  270.

_What Saith thy Conscience?_—"Thou shalt become what thou art."


                                  271.

_Where are thy Greatest Dangers?_—In pity.


                                  272.

_What dost thou Love in others?_—My hopes.


                                  273.

_Whom dost thou call Bad?_—Him who always wants to put others to shame.


                                  274.

_What dost thou think most humane?_—To spare a person shame.


                                  275.

_What is the Seal of Liberty Attained?_—To be no longer ashamed of
oneself.

-----

Footnote 9:

  This means that true love does not look for reciprocity.—TR.




                              BOOK FOURTH

                           SANCTUS JANUARIUS


            Thou who with cleaving fiery lances
              The stream of my soul from its ice dost free,
            Till with a rush and a roar it advances
              To enter with glorious hoping the sea:
            Brighter to see and purer ever,
              Free in the bonds of thy sweet constraint,—
            So it praises thy wondrous endeavour,
              January, thou beauteous saint!

_Genoa_, January 1882.


                                  276.

_For the New Year._—I still live, I still think; I must still live, for
I must still think. _Sum, ergo cogito: cogito, ergo sum._ To-day
everyone takes the liberty of expressing his wish and his favourite
thought: well, I also mean to tell what I have wished for myself to-day,
and what thought first crossed my mind this year,—a thought which ought
to be the basis, the pledge and the sweetening of all my future life! I
want more and more to perceive the necessary characters in things as the
beautiful:—I shall thus be one of those who beautify things. _Amor
fati_: let that henceforth be my love! I do not want to wage war with
the ugly. I do not want to accuse, I do not want even to accuse the
accusers. _Looking aside_, let that be my sole negation! And all in all,
to sum up: I wish to be at any time hereafter only a yea-sayer!


                                  277.

_Personal Providence._—There is a certain climax in life, at which,
notwithstanding all our freedom, and however much we may have denied all
directing reason and goodness in the beautiful chaos of existence, we
are once more in great danger of intellectual bondage, and have to face
our hardest test. For now the thought of a personal Providence first
presents itself before us with its most persuasive force, and has the
best of advocates, apparentness, in its favour, now when it is obvious
that all and everything that happens to us always _turns out for the
best_. The life of every day and of every hour seems to be anxious for
nothing else but always to prove this proposition anew; let it be what
it will, bad or good weather, the loss of a friend, a sickness, a
calumny, the non-receipt of a letter, the spraining of one's foot, a
glance into a shop-window, a counter-argument, the opening of a book, a
dream, a deception:—it shows itself immediately, or very soon afterwards
as something "not permitted to be absent,"—it is full of profound
significance and utility precisely _for us_! Is there a more dangerous
temptation to rid ourselves of the belief in the Gods of Epicurus, those
careless, unknown Gods, and believe in some anxious and mean Divinity,
who knows personally every little hair on our heads, and feels no
disgust in rendering the most wretched services? Well—I mean in spite of
all this! we want to leave the Gods alone (and the serviceable genii
likewise), and wish to content ourselves with the assumption that our
own practical and theoretical skilfulness in explaining and suitably
arranging events has now reached its highest point. We do not want
either to think too highly of this dexterity of our wisdom, when the
wonderful harmony which results from playing on our instrument sometimes
surprises us too much: a harmony which sounds too well for us to dare to
ascribe it to ourselves. In fact, now and then there is one who plays
_with_ us—beloved Chance: he leads our hand occasionally, and even the
all-wisest Providence could not devise any finer music than that of
which our foolish hand is then capable.


                                  278.

_The Thought of Death._—It gives me a melancholy happiness to live in
the midst of this confusion of streets, of necessities, of voices: how
much enjoyment, impatience and desire, how much thirsty life and
drunkenness of life comes to light here every moment! And yet it will
soon be so still for all these shouting, lively, life-loving people! How
everyone's shadow, his gloomy travelling-companion stands behind him! It
is always as in the last moment before the departure of an
emigrant-ship: people have more than ever to say to one another, the
hour presses, the ocean with its lonely silence waits impatiently behind
all the noise—so greedy, so certain of its prey! And all, all, suppose
that the past has been nothing, or a small matter, that the near future
is everything: hence this haste, this crying, this self-deafening and
self-overreaching! Everyone wants to be foremost in this future,—and yet
death and the stillness of death are the only things certain and common
to all in this future! How strange that this sole thing that is certain
and common to all, exercises almost no influence on men, and that they
are the _furthest_ from regarding themselves as the brotherhood of
death! It makes me happy to see that men do not want to think at all of
the idea of death! I would fain do something to make the idea of life
even a hundred times _more worthy of their attention_.


                                  279.

_Stellar Friendship._—We were friends, and have become strangers to each
other. But this is as it ought to be, and we do not want either to
conceal or obscure the fact, as if we had to be ashamed of it. We are
two ships, each of which has its goal and its course; we may, to be
sure, cross one another in our paths, and celebrate a feast together as
we did before,—and then the gallant ships lay quietly in one harbour,
and in one sunshine, so that it might have been thought they were
already at their goal, and that they had had one goal. But then the
almighty strength of our tasks forced us apart once more into different
seas and into different zones, and perhaps we shall never see one
another again,—or perhaps we may see one another, but not know one
another again; the different seas and suns have altered us! That we had
to become strangers to one another is the law to which we are _subject_:
just by that shall we become more sacred to one another! Just by that
shall the thought of our former friendship become holier! There is
probably some immense, invisible curve and stellar orbit in which our
courses and goals, so widely different, may be _comprehended_ as small
stages of the way,—let us raise ourselves to this thought! But our life
is too short, and our power of vision too limited for us to be more than
friends in the sense of that sublime possibility.—And so we will
_believe_ in our stellar friendship, though we should have to be
terrestrial enemies to one another.


                                  280.

_Architecture for Thinkers._—An insight is needed (and that probably
very soon) as to what is specially lacking in our great cities—namely,
quiet, spacious, and widely extended places for reflection, places with
long, lofty colonnades for bad weather, or for too sunny days, where no
noise of wagons or of shouters would penetrate, and where a more refined
propriety would prohibit loud praying even to the priest: buildings and
situations which as a whole would express the sublimity of
self-communion and seclusion from the world. The time is past when the
Church possessed the monopoly of reflection, when the _vita
contemplativa_ had always in the first place to be the _vita religiosa_:
and everything that the Church has built expresses this thought. I know
not how we could content ourselves with their structures, even if they
should be divested of their ecclesiastical purposes: these structures
speak a far too pathetic and too biassed speech, as houses of God and
places of splendour for supernatural intercourse, for us godless ones to
be able to think _our thoughts_ in them. We want to have _ourselves_
translated into stone and plant, we want to go for a walk in _ourselves_
when we wander in these halls and gardens.


                                  281.

_Knowing how to Find the End._—Masters of the first rank are recognised
by knowing in a perfect manner how to find the end, in the whole as well
as in the part; be it the end of a melody or of a thought, be it the
fifth act of a tragedy or of a state affair. The masters of the second
degree always become restless towards the end, and seldom dip down into
the sea with such proud, quiet equilibrium as, for example, the
mountain-ridge at _Porto fino_—where the Bay of Genoa sings its melody
to an end.


                                  282.

_The Gait._—There are mannerisms of the intellect by which even great
minds betray that they originate from the populace, or from the
semi-populace:—it is principally the gait and step of their thoughts
which betray them; they cannot _walk_. It was thus that even Napoleon,
to his profound chagrin, could not walk "legitimately" and in princely
fashion on occasions when it was necessary to do so properly, as in
great coronation processions and on similar occasions: even there he was
always just the leader of a column—proud and brusque at the same time,
and very self-conscious of it all.—It is something laughable to see
those writers who make the folding robes of their periods rustle around
them: they want to cover their _feet_.


                                  283.

_Pioneers._—I greet all the signs indicating that a more manly and
warlike age is commencing, which will, above all, bring heroism again
into honour! For it has to prepare the way for a yet higher age, and
gather the force which the latter will one day require,—the age which
will carry heroism into knowledge, and _wage war_ for the sake of ideas
and their consequences. For that end many brave pioneers are now needed,
who, however, cannot originate out of nothing,—and just as little out of
the sand and slime of present-day civilisation and the culture of great
cities: men silent, solitary and resolute, who know how to be content
and persistent in invisible activity: men who with innate disposition
seek in all things that which is _to be overcome_ in them: men to whom
cheerfulness, patience, simplicity, and contempt of the great vanities
belong just as much as do magnanimity in victory and indulgence to the
trivial vanities of all the vanquished: men with an acute and
independent judgment regarding all victors, and concerning the part
which chance has played in the winning of victory and fame: men with
their own holidays, their own work-days, and their own periods of
mourning; accustomed to command with perfect assurance, and equally
ready, if need be, to obey, proud in the one case as in the other,
equally serving their own interests: men more imperilled, more
productive, more happy! For believe me!—the secret of realising the
largest productivity and the greatest enjoyment of existence is _to live
in danger_! Build your cities on the slope of Vesuvius! Send your ships
into unexplored seas! Live in war with your equals and with yourselves!
Be robbers and spoilers, ye knowing ones, as long as ye cannot be rulers
and possessor! The time will soon pass when you can be satisfied to live
like timorous deer concealed in the forests. Knowledge will finally
stretch out her hand for that which belongs to her:—she means to _rule_
and _possess_, and you with her!


                                  284.

_Belief in Oneself._—In general, few men have belief in themselves:—and
of those few some are endowed with it as a useful blindness or partial
obscuration of intellect (what would they perceive if they could see _to
the bottom of themselves_!). The others must first acquire the belief
for themselves: everything good, clever, or great that they do, is first
of all an argument against the sceptic that dwells in them: the question
is how to convince or persuade _this sceptic_, and for that purpose
genius almost is needed. They are signally dissatisfied with themselves.


                                  285.

_Excelsior!_—"Thou wilt never more pray, never more worship, never more
repose in infinite trust—thou refusest to stand still and dismiss thy
thoughts before an ultimate wisdom, an ultimate virtue, an ultimate
power,—thou hast no constant guardian and friend in thy seven
solitudes—thou livest without the outlook on a mountain that has snow on
its head and fire in its heart—there is no longer any requiter for thee,
nor any amender with his finishing touch—there is no longer any reason
in that which happens, or any love in that which will happen to
thee—there is no longer any resting-place for thy weary heart, where it
has only to find and no longer to seek, thou art opposed to any kind of
ultimate peace, thou desirest the eternal recurrence of war and
peace:—man of renunciation, wilt thou renounce in all these things? Who
will give thee the strength to do so? No one has yet had this
strength!"—There is a lake which one day refused to flow away, and threw
up a dam at the place where it had hitherto flowed away: since then this
lake has always risen higher and higher. Perhaps the very renunciation
will also furnish us with the strength with which the renunciation
itself can be borne; perhaps man will ever rise higher and higher from
that point onward, when he no longer _flows out_ into a God.


                                  286.

_A Digression._—Here are hopes; but what will you see and hear of them,
if you have not experienced glance and glow and dawn of day in your own
souls? I can only suggest—I cannot do more! To move the stones, to make
animals men—would you have me do that? Alas, if you are yet stones and
animals, seek first your Orpheus!


                                  287.

_Love of Blindness._—"My thoughts," said the wanderer to his shadow,
"ought to show me where I stand, but they should not betray to me
_whither I go_. I love ignorance of the future, and do not want to come
to grief by impatience and anticipatory tasting of promised things."


                                  288.

_Lofty Moods._—It seems to me that most men do not believe in lofty
moods, unless it be for the moment, or at the most for a quarter of an
hour,—except the few who know by experience a longer duration of high
feeling. But to be absolutely a man with a single lofty feeling, the
incarnation of a single lofty mood—that has hitherto been only a dream
and an enchanting possibility: history does not yet give us any
trustworthy example of it. Nevertheless it could some day produce such
men also—when a multitude of favourable conditions have been created and
established, which at present even the happiest chance is unable to
throw together. Perhaps that very state which has hitherto entered into
our soul as an exception, felt with horror now and then, may be the
usual condition of those future souls: a continuous movement between
high and low, and the feeling of high and low, a constant state of
mounting as on steps, and at the same time reposing as on clouds.


                                  289.

_Aboard Ship!_—When one considers how a full philosophical
justification of his mode of living and thinking operates upon every
individual—namely, as a warming, blessing, and fructifying sun,
specially shining on him; how it makes him independent of praise and
blame, self-sufficient, rich and generous in the bestowal of happiness
and kindness; how it unceasingly transforms the evil to the good,
brings all the energies to bloom and maturity, and altogether hinders
the growth of the greater and lesser weeds of chagrin and
discontent:—one at last cries out importunately: Oh, that many such
new suns were created! The evil man, also, the unfortunate man, and
the exceptional man, shall each have his philosophy, his rights, and
his sunshine! It is not sympathy with them that is necessary!—we must
unlearn this arrogant fancy, notwithstanding that humanity has so long
learned it and used it exclusively—we have not to set up any
confessor, exorcist, or pardoner for them! It is a new _justice_,
however, that is necessary! And a new solution! And new philosophers!
The moral earth also is round! The moral earth also has its antipodes!
The antipodes also have their right to exist! there is still another
world to discover—and more than one! Aboard ship! ye philosophers!


                                  290.

_One Thing is Needful._—To "give style" to one's character—that is a
grand and a rare art! He who surveys all that his nature presents in its
strength and in its weakness, and then fashions it into an ingenious
plan, until everything appears artistic and rational, and even the
weaknesses enchant the eye—exercises that admirable art. Here there has
been a great amount of second nature added, there a portion of first
nature has been taken away:—in both cases with long exercise and daily
labour at the task. Here the ugly, which does not permit of being taken
away, has been concealed, there it has been re-interpreted into the
sublime. Much of the vague, which refuses to take form, has been
reserved and utilised for the perspectives:—it is meant to give a hint
of the remote and immeasurable. In the end, when the work has been
completed, it is revealed how it was the constraint of the same taste
that organised and fashioned it in whole or in part: whether the taste
was good or bad is of less importance than one thinks,—it is sufficient
that it was _a taste_!—It will be the strong imperious natures which
experience their most refined joy in such constraint, in such
confinement and perfection under their own law; the passion of their
violent volition lessens at the sight of all disciplined nature, all
conquered and ministering nature: even when they have palaces to build
and gardens to lay out, it is not to their taste to allow nature to be
free.—It is the reverse with weak characters who have not power over
themselves, and _hate_ the restriction of style: they feel that if this
repugnant constraint were laid upon them, they would necessarily become
_vulgarised_ under it: they become slaves as soon as they serve, they
hate service. Such intellects—they may be intellects of the first
rank—are always concerned with fashioning or interpreting themselves and
their surroundings as _free_ nature—wild, arbitrary, fantastic, confused
and surprising: and it is well for them to do so, because only in this
manner can they please themselves! For one thing is needful: namely,
that man should _attain to_ satisfaction with himself—be it but through
this or that fable and artifice: it is only then that man's aspect is at
all endurable! He who is dissatisfied with himself is ever ready to
avenge himself on that account: we others will be his victims, if only
in having always to endure his ugly aspect. For the aspect of the ugly
makes one mean and sad.


                                  291.

_Genoa._—I have looked upon this city, its villas and pleasure-grounds
and the wide circuit of its inhabited heights and slopes, for a
considerable time: in the end I must say that I see _countenances_ out
of past generations,—this district is strewn with the images of bold and
autocratic men. They have _lived_ and have wanted to live on—they say so
with their houses, built and decorated for centuries, and not for the
passing hour: they were well disposed to life, however ill-disposed they
may often have been towards themselves. I always see the builder, how he
casts his eye on all that is built around him far and near, and likewise
on the city, the sea, and the chain of mountains; how he expresses power
and conquest in his gaze: all this he wishes to fit into _his_ plan, and
in the end make it his _property_, by its becoming a portion of the
same. The whole district is overgrown with this superb, insatiable
egoism of the desire to possess and exploit; and as these men when
abroad recognised no frontiers, and in their thirst for the new placed a
new world beside the old, so also at home everyone rose up against
everyone else, and devised some mode of expressing his superiority, and
of placing between himself and his neighbour his personal
illimitableness. Everyone won for himself his home once more by
over-powering it with his architectural thoughts, and by transforming it
into a delightful sight for his race. When we consider the mode of
building cities in the north, the law and the general delight in
legality and obedience, impose upon us: we thereby divine the propensity
to equality and submission which must have ruled in those builders.
Here, however, on turning every corner you find a man by himself, who
knows the sea, knows adventure, and knows the Orient, a man who is
averse to law and to neighbour, as if it bored him to have to do with
them, a man who scans all that is already old and established, with
envious glances: with a wonderful craftiness of fantasy, he would like,
at least in thought, to establish all this anew, to lay his hand upon
it, and introduce his meaning into it—if only for the passing hour of a
sunny afternoon, when for once his insatiable and melancholy soul feels
satiety, and when only what is his own, and nothing strange, may show
itself to his eye.


                                  292.

_To the Preachers of Morality._—I do not mean to moralise, but to those
who do, I would give this advice: if you mean ultimately to deprive the
best things and the best conditions of all honour and worth, continue to
speak of them in the same way as heretofore! Put them at the head of
your morality, and speak from morning till night of the happiness of
virtue, of repose of soul, of righteousness, and of reward and
punishment in the nature of things: according as you go on in this
manner, all these good things will finally acquire a popularity and a
street-cry for themselves: but then all the gold on them will also be
worn off, and more besides: all the gold _in them_ will have changed
into lead. Truly, you understand the reverse art of alchemy, the
depreciating of the most valuable things! Try, just for once, another
recipe, in order not to realise as hitherto the opposite of what you
mean to attain: _deny_ those good things, withdraw from them the
applause of the populace and discourage the spread of them, make them
once more the concealed chastities of solitary souls, say that _morality
is something forbidden_! Perhaps you will thus win over for those things
the sort of men who are only of any account, I mean the _heroic_. But
then there must be something formidable in them, and not as hitherto
something disgusting! Might one not be inclined to say at present with
reference to morality what Master Eckardt says: "I pray God to deliver
me from God!"


                                  293.

_Our Atmosphere._—We know it well: to him who only casts a glance now
and then at science, as in taking a walk (in the manner of women, and
alas! also like many artists), the strictness in its service, its
inexorability in small matters as well as in great, its rapidity in
weighing, judging and condemning, produce something of a feeling of
giddiness and fright. It is especially terrifying to him that the
hardest is here demanded, that the best is done without the reward of
praise or distinction; it is rather as among soldiers—almost nothing but
blame and sharp reprimand _is heard_; for doing well prevails here as
the rule, doing ill as the exception; the rule, however, has, here as
everywhere, a silent tongue. It is the same with this "severity of
science" as with the manners and politeness of the best society: it
frightens the uninitiated. He, however, who is accustomed to it, does
not like to live anywhere but in this clear, transparent, powerful, and
highly electrified atmosphere, this _manly_ atmosphere. Anywhere else it
is not pure and airy enough for him: he suspects that _there_ his best
art would neither be properly advantageous to anyone else, nor a delight
to himself, that through misunderstandings half of his life would slip
through his fingers, that much foresight, much concealment, and
reticence would constantly be necessary,—nothing but great and useless
losses of power! In _this_ keen and clear element, however, he has his
entire power: here he can fly! Why should he again go down into those
muddy waters where he has to swim and wade and soil his wings!—No! There
it is too hard for us to live! we cannot help it that we are born for
the atmosphere, the pure atmosphere, we rivals of the ray of light; and
that we should like best to ride like it on the atoms of ether, not away
from the sun, but _towards the sun_! That, however, we cannot do:—so we
want to do the only thing that is in our power: namely, to bring light
to the earth, we want to be "the light of the earth!" And for that
purpose we have our wings and our swiftness and our severity, on that
account we are manly, and even terrible like the fire. Let those fear
us, who do not know how to warm and brighten themselves by our
influence!


                                  294.

_Against the Disparagers of Nature._—They are disagreeable to me, those
men in whom every natural inclination forthwith becomes a disease,
something disfiguring, or even disgraceful. _They_ have seduced us to
the opinion that the inclinations and impulses of men are evil; _they_
are the cause of our great injustice to our own nature, and to all
nature! There are enough of men who _may_ yield to their impulses
gracefully and carelessly: but they do not do so, for fear of that
imaginary "evil thing" in nature! _That is the cause_ why there is so
little nobility to be found among men: the indication of which will
always be to have no fear of oneself, to expect nothing disgraceful from
oneself, to fly without hesitation whithersoever we are impelled—we
free-born birds! Wherever we come, there will always be freedom and
sunshine around us.


                                  295.

_Short-lived Habits._—I love short-lived habits, and regard them as an
invaluable means for getting a knowledge of _many_ things and various
conditions, to the very bottom of their sweetness and bitterness; my
nature is altogether arranged for short-lived habits, even in the needs
of its bodily health, and in general, _as far as_ I can see, from the
lowest up to the highest matters. I always think that _this_ will at
last satisfy me permanently (the short-lived habit has also that
characteristic belief of passion, the belief in everlasting duration; I
am to be envied for having found it and recognised it), and then it
nourishes me at noon and at eve, and spreads a profound satisfaction
around me and in me, so that I have no longing for anything else, not
needing to compare, or despise, or hate. But one day the habit has had
its time: the good thing separates from me, not as something which then
inspires disgust in me—but peaceably and as though satisfied with me, as
I am with it; as if we had to be mutually thankful, and _thus_ shook
hands for farewell. And already the new habit waits at the door, and
similarly also my belief—indestructible fool and sage that I am!—that
this new habit will be the right one, the ultimate right one. So it is
with me as regards foods, thoughts, men, cities, poems, music,
doctrines, arrangements of the day, and modes of life.—On the other
hand, I hate _permanent_ habits, and feel as if a tyrant came into my
neighbourhood, and as if my life's breath _condensed_, when events take
such a form that permanent habits seem necessarily to grow out of them:
for example, through an official position, through constant
companionship with the same persons, through a settled abode, or through
a uniform state of health. Indeed, from the bottom of my soul I am
gratefully disposed to all my misery and sickness, and to whatever is
imperfect in me, because such things leave me a hundred back-doors
through which I can escape from permanent habits. The most unendurable
thing, to be sure, the really terrible thing, would be a life without
habits, a life which continually required improvisation:—that would be
my banishment and my Siberia.


                                  296.

_A Fixed Reputation._—A fixed reputation was formerly a matter of the
very greatest utility; and wherever society continues to be ruled by the
herd-instinct, it is still most suitable for every individual _to give_
to his character and business _the appearance_ of unalterableness,—even
when they are not so in reality. "One can rely on him, he remains the
same"—that is the praise which has most significance in all dangerous
conditions of society. Society feels with satisfaction that it has a
reliable _tool_ ready at all times in the virtue of this one, in the
ambition of that one, and in the reflection and passion of a third
one,—it honours this _tool-like nature_, this self-constancy, this
unchangeableness in opinions, efforts, and even in faults, with the
highest honours. Such a valuation, which prevails and has prevailed
everywhere simultaneously with the morality of custom, educates
"characters," and brings all changing, re-learning, and
self-transforming into _disrepute_. Be the advantage of this mode of
thinking ever so great otherwise, it is in any case the mode of judging
which is most injurious _to knowledge_: for precisely the good-will of
the knowing one ever to declare himself unhesitatingly as _opposed_ to
his former opinions, and in general to be distrustful of all that wants
to be fixed in him—is here condemned and brought into disrepute. The
disposition of the thinker, as incompatible with a "fixed reputation,"
is regarded as _dishonourable_, while the petrifaction of opinions has
all the honour to itself:—we have at present still to live under the
interdict of such rules! How difficult it is to live when one feels that
the judgment of many millenniums is around one and against one. It is
probable that for many millenniums knowledge was afflicted with a bad
conscience, and that there must have been much self-contempt and secret
misery in the history of the greatest intellects.


                                  297.

_Ability to Contradict._—Everyone knows at present that the ability to
endure contradiction is a high indication of culture. Some people even
know that the higher man courts opposition, and provokes it, so as to
get a cue to his hitherto unknown partiality. But the _ability_ to
contradict, the attainment of _good_ conscience in hostility to the
accustomed, the traditional and the hallowed,—that is more than both the
above-named abilities, and is the really great, new and astonishing
thing in our culture, the step of all steps of the emancipated
intellect: who knows that?—


                                  298.

_A Sigh._—I caught this notion on the way, and rapidly took the
readiest, poor words to hold it fast, so that it might not again fly
away. And now it has died in these dry words, and hangs and flaps about
in them—and I hardly know now, when I look upon it, how I could have had
such happiness when I caught this bird.


                                  299.

_What one should Learn from Artists._—What means have we for making
things beautiful, attractive, and desirable, when they are not so?—and I
suppose they are never so in themselves! We have here something to learn
from physicians, when, for example, they dilute what is bitter, or put
wine and sugar into their mixing-bowl; but we have still more to learn
from artists, who in fact, are continually concerned in devising such
inventions and artifices. To withdraw from things until one no longer
sees much of them, until one has even to see things into them, _in order
to see them at all_—or to view them from the side, and as in a frame—or
to place them so that they partly disguise themselves and only permit of
perspective views—or to look at them through coloured glasses, or in the
light of the sunset—or to furnish them with a surface or skin which is
not fully transparent: we should learn all that from artists, and
moreover be wiser than they. For this fine power of theirs usually
ceases with them where art ceases and life begins; _we_, however, want
to be the poets of our life, and first of all in the smallest and most
commonplace matters.


                                  300.

_Prelude to Science._—Do you believe then that the sciences would have
arisen and grown up if the sorcerers, alchemists, astrologers and
witches had not been their forerunners; those who, with their promisings
and foreshadowings, had first to create a thirst, a hunger, and a taste
for _hidden and forbidden_ powers? Yea, that infinitely more had to be
_promised_ than could ever be fulfilled, in order that something might
be fulfilled in the domain of knowledge? Perhaps the whole of
_religion_, also, may appear to some distant age as an exercise and a
prelude, in like manner as the prelude and preparation of science here
exhibit themselves, though _not_ at all practised and regarded as such.
Perhaps religion may have been the peculiar means for enabling
individual men to enjoy but once the entire self-satisfaction of a God
and all his self-redeeming power. Indeed!—one may ask—would man have
learned at all to get on the tracks of hunger and thirst for _himself_,
and to extract satiety and fullness out of _himself_, without that
religious schooling and preliminary history? Had Prometheus first to
_fancy_ that he had _stolen_ the light, and that he did penance for the
theft—in order finally to discover that he had created the light, _in
that he had longed for the light_, and that not only man, but also _God_
had been the work of _his_ hands and the clay in his hands? All mere
creations of the creator?—just as the illusion, the theft, the Caucasus,
the vulture, and the whole tragic Prometheia of all thinkers!


                                  301.

_Illusion of the Contemplative._—Higher men are distinguished from
lower, by seeing and hearing immensely more, and in a thoughtful
manner—and it is precisely this that distinguishes man from the animal,
and the higher animal from the lower. The world always becomes fuller
for him who grows up into the full stature of humanity; there are always
more interesting fishing-hooks, thrown out to him; the number of his
stimuli is continually on the increase, and similarly the varieties of
his pleasure and pain,—the higher man becomes always at the same time
happier and unhappier. An _illusion_, however, is his constant
accompaniment all along: he thinks he is placed as a _spectator_ and
_auditor_ before the great pantomime and concert of life; he calls his
nature a _contemplative nature_, and thereby overlooks the fact that he
himself is also a real creator, and continuous poet of life,—that he no
doubt differs greatly from the _actor_ in this drama, the so-called
practical man, but differs still more from a mere onlooker or spectator
_before_ the stage. There is certainly _vis contemplativa_, and
re-examination of his work peculiar to him as poet, but at the same
time, and first and foremost, he has the _vis creativa_, which the
practical man or doer _lacks_, whatever appearance and current belief
may say to the contrary. It is we, we who think and feel, that actually
and unceasingly _make_ something which does not yet exist: the whole
eternally increasing world of valuations, colours, weights,
perspectives, gradations, affirmations and negations. This composition
of ours is continually learnt, practised, and translated into flesh and
actuality, and even into the commonplace, by the so-called practical men
(our actors, as we have said). Whatever has _value_ in the present
world, has it not in itself, by its nature,—nature is always
worthless:—but a value was once given to it, bestowed upon it, and it
was _we_ who gave and bestowed! We only have created the world _which is
of any account to man_!—But it is precisely this knowledge that we lack,
and when we get hold of it for a moment we have forgotten it the next:
we misunderstand our highest power, we contemplative men, and estimate
ourselves at too low a rate,—we are neither as _proud nor as happy_ as
we might be.


                                  302.

_The Danger of the Happiest Ones._—To have fine senses and a fine taste;
to be accustomed to the select and the intellectually best as our proper
and readiest fare; to be blessed with a strong, bold, and daring soul;
to go through life with a quiet eye and a firm step, ever ready for the
worst as for a festival, and full of longing for undiscovered worlds and
seas, men and Gods; to listen to all joyous music, as if there, perhaps,
brave men, soldiers and seafarers, took a brief repose and enjoyment,
and in the profoundest pleasure of the moment were overcome with tears
and the whole purple melancholy of happiness: who would not like all
this to be _his_ possession, his condition! It was the _happiness of
Homer_! The condition of him who invented the Gods for the Greeks,—nay,
who invented _his_ Gods for himself! But let us not conceal the fact
that with this happiness of Homer in one's soul, one is more liable to
suffering than any other creature under the sun! And only at this price
do we purchase the most precious pearl that the waves of existence have
hitherto washed ashore! As its possessor one always becomes more
sensitive to pain, and at last too sensitive: a little displeasure and
loathing sufficed in the end to make Homer disgusted with life. He was
unable to solve a foolish little riddle which some young fishers
proposed to him! Yes, the little riddles are the dangers of the happiest
ones!—


                                  303.

_Two Happy Ones._—Certainly this man, notwithstanding his youth,
understands the _improvisation of life_, and astonishes even the acutest
observers. For it seems that he never makes a mistake, although he
constantly plays the most hazardous games. One is reminded of the
improvising masters of the musical art, to whom even the listeners would
fain ascribe a divine _infallibility_ of the hand, notwithstanding that
they now and then make a mistake, as every mortal is liable to do. But
they are skilled and inventive, and always ready in a moment to arrange
into the structure of the score the most accidental tone (where the jerk
of a finger or a humour brings it about), and to animate the accident
with a fine meaning and a soul.—Here is quite a different man:
everything that he intends and plans fails with him in the long run.
That on which he has now and again set his heart has already brought him
several times to the abyss, and to the very verge of ruin; and if he has
as yet got out of the scrape, it certainly has not been merely with a
"black eye." Do you think he is unhappy over it? He resolved long ago
not to regard his own wishes and plans as of so much importance. "If
this does not succeed with me,"—he says to himself, "perhaps that will
succeed; and on the whole I do not know but that I am under more
obligation to thank my failures than any of my successes. Am I made to
be headstrong, and to wear the bull's horns? That which constitutes the
worth and the sum of life _for me_, lies somewhere else; I know more of
life, because I have been so often on the point of losing it; and just
on that account I _have_ more of life than any of you!"


                                  304.

_In Doing we Leave Undone._—In the main all those moral systems are
distasteful to me which say: "Do not do this! Renounce! Overcome
thyself!" On the other hand I am favourable to those moral systems which
stimulate me to do something, and to do it again from morning till
evening, and dream of it at night, and think of nothing else but to do
it _well_, as well as it is possible for _me_ alone! From him who so
lives there fall off one after the other the things that do not pertain
to such a life: without hatred or antipathy, he sees _this_ take leave
of him to-day, and _that_ to-morrow, like the yellow leaves which every
livelier breeze strips from the tree: or he does not see at all that
they take leave of him, so firmly is his eye fixed upon his goal, and
generally forward, not sideways, backward, nor downward. "Our doing must
determine what we leave undone; in that we do, we leave undone"—so it
pleases me, so runs _my placitum_. But I do not mean to strive with open
eyes for my impoverishment; I do not like any of the negative virtues
whose very essence is negation and self-renunciation.


                                  305.

_Self-control._—Those moral teachers who first and foremost order man to
get himself into his own power, induce thereby a curious infirmity in
him,—namely, a constant sensitiveness with reference to all natural
strivings and inclinations, and as it were, a sort of itching. Whatever
may henceforth drive him, draw him, allure or impel him, whether
internally or externally—it always seems to this sensitive being, as if
his self-control were in danger: he is no longer at liberty to trust
himself to any instinct, to any free flight, but stands constantly with
defensive mien, armed against himself, with sharp distrustful eye, the
eternal watcher of his stronghold, to which office he has appointed
himself. Yes, he can be _great_ in that position! But how unendurable he
has now become to others, how difficult even for himself to bear, how
impoverished and cut off from the finest accidents of his soul! Yea,
even from all further _instruction_! For we must be able to lose
ourselves at times, if we want to learn something of what we have not in
ourselves.


                                  306.

_Stoic and Epicurean._—The Epicurean selects the situations, the
persons, and even the events which suit his extremely sensitive,
intellectual constitution; he renounces the rest—that is to say, by far
the greater part of experience—because it would be too strong and too
heavy fare for him. The Stoic, on the contrary, accustoms himself to
swallow stones and vermin, glass-splinters and scorpions, without
feeling any disgust: his stomach is meant to become indifferent in the
end to all that the accidents of existence cast into it:—he reminds one
of the Arabic sect of the Assaua, with which the French became
acquainted in Algiers; and like those insensible persons, he also likes
well to have an invited public at the exhibition of his insensibility,
the very thing the Epicurean willingly dispenses with:—he has of course
his "garden"! Stoicism may be quite advisable for men with whom fate
improvises, for those who live in violent times and are dependent on
abrupt and changeable individuals. He, however, who _anticipates_ that
fate will permit him to spin "a long thread," does well to make his
arrangements in Epicurean fashion; all men devoted to intellectual
labour have done it hitherto! For it would be a supreme loss to them to
forfeit their fine sensibility, and acquire the hard, stoical hide with
hedgehog prickles in exchange.


                                  307.

_In Favour of Criticism._—Something now appears to thee as an error
which thou formerly lovedst as a truth, or as a probability: thou
pushest it from thee and imaginest that thy reason has there gained a
victory. But perhaps that error was then, when thou wast still another
person—thou art always another person,—just as necessary to thee as all
thy present "truths," like a skin, as it were, which concealed and
veiled from thee much which thou still mayst not see. Thy new life, and
not thy reason, has slain that opinion for thee: _thou dost not require
it any longer_, and now it breaks down of its own accord, and the
irrationality crawls out of it as a worm into the light. When we make
use of criticism it is not something arbitrary and impersonal,—it is, at
least very often, a proof that there are lively, active forces in us,
which cast a skin. We deny, and must deny, because something in us
_wants_ to live and affirm itself, something which we perhaps do not as
yet know, do not as yet see!—So much in favour of criticism.


                                  308.

_The History of each Day._—What is it that constitutes the history of
each day for thee? Look at thy habits of which it consists: are they the
product of numberless little acts of cowardice and laziness, or of thy
bravery and inventive reason? Although the two cases are so different,
it is possible that men might bestow the same praise upon thee, and that
thou mightst also be equally useful to them in the one case as in the
other. But praise and utility and respectability may suffice for him
whose only desire is to have a good conscience,—not however for thee,
the "trier of the reins," who hast a _consciousness of the conscience_!


                                  309.

_Out of the Seventh Solitude._—One day the wanderer shut a door behind
him, stood still, and wept. Then he said: "Oh, this inclination and
impulse towards the true, the real, the non-apparent, the certain! How I
detest it! Why does this gloomy and passionate taskmaster follow just
_me_? I should like to rest, but it does not permit me to do so. Are
there not a host of things seducing me to tarry! Everywhere there are
gardens of Armida for me, and therefore there will always be fresh
separations and fresh bitterness of heart! I must set my foot forward,
my weary wounded foot: and because I feel I must do this, I often cast
grim glances back at the most beautiful things which could not detain
me—_because_ they could not detain me!"


                                  310.

_Will and Wave._—How eagerly this wave comes hither, as if it were a
question of its reaching something! How it creeps with frightful haste
into the innermost corners of the rocky cliff! It seems that it wants to
forestall some one; it seems that something is concealed there that has
value, high value.—And now it retreats somewhat more slowly, still quite
white with excitement,—is it disappointed? Has it found what it sought?
Does it merely pretend to be disappointed?—But already another wave
approaches, still more eager and wild than the first, and its soul also
seems to be full of secrets and of longing for treasure-seeking. Thus
live the waves,—thus live we who exercise will!—I do not say more.—But
what! Ye distrust me? Ye are angry at me, ye beautiful monsters? Do ye
fear that I will quite betray your secret? Well! Just be angry with me,
raise your green, dangerous bodies as high as ye can, make a wall
between me and the sun—as at present! Verily, there is now nothing more
left of the world save green twilight and green lightning-flashes. Do as
ye will, ye wanton creatures, roar with delight and wickedness—or dive
under again, pour your emeralds down into the depths, and cast your
endless white tresses of foam and spray over them—it is all the same to
me, for all is so well with you, and I am so pleased with you for it
all: how could I betray _you_! For—take this to heart!—I know you and
your secret, I know your race! You and I are indeed of one race! You and
I have indeed one secret!


                                  311.

_Broken Lights._—We are not always brave, and when we are weary, people
of our stamp are liable to lament occasionally in this wise:—"It is so
hard to cause pain to men—oh, that it should be necessary! What good is
it to live concealed, when we do not want to keep to ourselves that
which causes vexation? Would it not be more advisable to live in the
madding crowd, and compensate individuals for sins that are committed
and must be committed against mankind in general? Foolish with fools,
vain with the vain, enthusiastic with enthusiasts? Would that not be
reasonable when there is such an inordinate amount of divergence in the
main? When I hear of the malignity of others against me—is not my first
feeling that of satisfaction? It is well that it should be so!—I seem to
myself to say to them—I am so little in harmony with you, and have so
much truth on my side: see henceforth that ye be merry at my expense as
often as ye can! Here are my defects and mistakes, here are my
illusions, my bad taste, my confusion, my tears, my vanity, my owlish
concealment, my contradictions! Here you have something to laugh at!
Laugh then, and enjoy yourselves! I am not averse to the law and nature
of things, which is that defects and errors should give pleasure!—To be
sure there were once 'more glorious' times, when as soon as any one got
an idea, however moderately new it might be, he would think himself so
_indispensable_ as to go out into the street with it, and call to
everybody: 'Behold! the kingdom of heaven is at hand!'—I should not miss
myself, if I were a-wanting. We are none of us indispensable!"—As we
have said, however, we do not think thus when we are brave; we do not
think _about it_ at all.


                                  312.

_My Dog._—I have given a name to my suffering, and call it "dog,"—it is
just as faithful, just as importunate and shameless, just as
entertaining, just as wise, as any other dog—and I can domineer over it,
and vent my bad humour on it, as others do with their dogs, servants,
and wives.


                                  313.

_No Picture of a Martyr._—I will take my cue from Raphael, and not paint
any more martyr pictures. There are enough of sublime things without its
being necessary to seek sublimity where it is linked with cruelty;
moreover my ambition would not be gratified in the least if I aspired to
be a sublime executioner.


                                  314.

_New Domestic Animals._—I want to have my lion and my eagle about me,
that I may always have hints and premonitions concerning the amount of
my strength or weakness. Must I look down on them to-day, and be afraid
of them? And will the hour come once more when they will look up to me,
and tremble?—


                                  315.

_The Last Hour._—Storms are my danger. Shall I have my storm in which I
shall perish, just as Oliver Cromwell perished in his storm? Or shall I
go out as a light does, not first blown out by the wind, but grown tired
and weary of itself—a burnt-out light? Or finally, shall I blow myself
out, so as _not to burn out_!


                                  316.

_Prophetic Men._—Ye cannot divine how sorely prophetic men suffer: ye
think only that a fine "gift" has been given to them, and would fain
have it yourselves,—but I will express my meaning by a simile. How much
may not the animals suffer from the electricity of the atmosphere and
the clouds! Some of them, as we see, have a prophetic faculty with
regard to the weather, for example, apes (as one can observe very well
even in Europe,—and not only in menageries, but at Gibraltar). But it
never occurs to us that it is their _sufferings_—that are their
prophets! When strong positive electricity, under the influence of an
approaching cloud not at all visible, is suddenly converted into
negative electricity, and an alteration of the weather is imminent,
these animals then behave as if an enemy were approaching them, and
prepare for defence, or flight: they generally hide themselves,—they do
not think of the bad weather as weather, but as an enemy whose hand they
already _feel_!


                                  317.

_Retrospect._—We seldom become conscious of the real pathos of any
period of life as such, as long as we continue in it, but always think
it is the only possible and reasonable thing for us henceforth, and that
it is altogether _ethos_ and not _pathos_[10]—to speak and distinguish
like the Greeks. A few notes of music to-day recalled a winter and a
house, and a life of utter solitude to my mind, and at the same time the
sentiments in which I then lived: I thought I should be able to live in
such a state always. But now I understand that it was entirely pathos
and passion, something comparable to this painfully bold and truly
comforting music,—it is not one's lot to have these sensations for
years, still less for eternities: otherwise one would become too
"ethereal" for this planet.


                                  318.

_Wisdom in Pain._—In pain there is as much wisdom as in pleasure: like
the latter it is one of the best self-preservatives of a species. Were
it not so, pain would long ago have been done away with; that it is
hurtful is no argument against it, for to be hurtful is its very
essence. In pain I hear the commanding call of the ship's captain: "Take
in sail!" "Man," the bold seafarer, must have learned to set his sails
in a thousand different ways, otherwise he could not have sailed long,
for the ocean would soon have swallowed him up. We must also know how to
live with reduced energy: as soon as pain gives its precautionary
signal, it is time to reduce the speed—some great danger, some storm, is
approaching, and we do well to "catch" as little wind as possible.—It is
true that there are men who, on the approach of severe pain, hear the
very opposite call of command, and never appear more proud, more
martial, or more happy, than when the storm is brewing; indeed, pain
itself provides them with their supreme moments! These are the heroic
men, the great _pain-bringers_ of mankind: those few and rare ones who
need just the same apology as pain generally,—and verily, it should not
be denied them! They are forces of the greatest importance for
preserving and advancing the species, were it only because they are
opposed to smug ease, and do not conceal their disgust at this kind of
happiness.


                                  319.

_As Interpreters of our Experiences._—One form of honesty has always
been lacking among founders of religions and their kin:—they have never
made their experiences a matter of the intellectual conscience. "What
did I really experience? What then took place in me and around me? Was
my understanding clear enough? Was my will directly opposed to all
deception of the senses, and courageous in its defence against fantastic
notions?"—None of them ever asked these questions, nor to this day do
any of the good religious people ask them. They have rather a thirst for
things which are _contrary to reason_, and they don't want to have too
much difficulty in satisfying this thirst,—so they experience "miracles"
and "regenerations," and hear the voices of angels! But we who are
different, who are thirsty for reason, want to look as carefully into
our experiences, as in the case of a scientific experiment, hour by
hour, day by day! We ourselves want to be our own experiments, and our
own subjects of experiment.


                                  320.

_On Meeting Again._—A: Do I quite understand you? You are in search of
something? _Where_, in the midst of the present, actual world, is _your_
niche and star? Where can _you_ lay yourself in the sun, so that you
also may have a surplus of well-being, that your existence may justify
itself? Let everyone do that for himself—you seem to say, —and let him
put talk about generalities, concern about others and society, out of
his mind!—B: I want more; I am no seeker. I want to create my own sun
for myself.


                                  321.

_A New Precaution._—Let us no longer think so much about punishing,
blaming, and improving! We shall seldom be able to alter an individual,
and if we should succeed in doing so, something else may also succeed,
perhaps unawares: _we_ may have been altered by him! Let us rather see
to it that our own influence on _all that is to come_ outweighs and
overweighs his influence! Let us not struggle in direct conflict!—all
blaming, punishing, and desire to improve comes under this category. But
let us elevate ourselves all the higher! Let us ever give to our pattern
more shining colours! Let us obscure the other by our light! No! We do
not mean to become _darker_ ourselves on his account, like all that
punish and are discontented! Let us rather go aside! Let us look away!


                                  322.

_A Simile._—Those thinkers in whom all the stars move in cyclic orbits,
are not the most profound. He who looks into himself, as into an immense
universe, and carries Milky Ways in himself, knows also how irregular
all Milky Ways are; they lead into the very chaos and labyrinth of
existence.


                                  323.

_Happiness in Destiny._—Destiny confers its greatest distinction upon us
when it has made us fight for a time on the side of our adversaries. We
are thereby _predestined_ to a great victory.


                                  324.

_In Media Vita._—No! Life has not deceived me! On the contrary, from
year to year I find it richer, more desirable and more mysterious—from
the day on which the great liberator broke my fetters, the thought that
life may be an experiment of the thinker—and not a duty, not a fatality,
not a deceit!—And knowledge itself may be for others something
different; for example, a bed of ease, or the path to a bed of ease, or
an entertainment, or a course of idling,—for me it is a world of dangers
and victories, in which even the heroic sentiments have their arena and
dancing-floor. "_Life as a means to knowledge_"—with this principle in
one's heart, one can not only be brave, but can even _live joyfully and
laugh joyfully_! And who could know how to laugh well and live well, who
did not first understand the full meaning of war and victory!


                                  325.

_What Belongs to Greatness._—Who can attain to anything great if he does
not feel the force and will in himself _to inflict_ great pain? The
ability to suffer is a small matter: in that line, weak women and even
slaves often attain masterliness. But not to perish from internal
distress and doubt when one inflicts great anguish and hears the cry of
this anguish—that is great, that belongs to greatness.


                                  326.

_Physicians of the Soul and Pain._—All preachers of morality, as also
all theologians, have a bad habit in common: all of them try to persuade
man that he is very ill, and that a severe, final, radical cure is
necessary. And because mankind as a whole has for centuries listened too
eagerly to those teachers, something of the superstition that the human
race is in a very bad way has actually come over men: so that they are
now far too ready to sigh; they find nothing more in life and make
melancholy faces at each other, as if life were indeed very hard _to
endure_. In truth, they are inordinately assured of their life and in
love with it, and full of untold intrigues and subtleties for
suppressing everything disagreeable and for extracting the thorn from
pain and misfortune. It seems to me that people always speak _with
exaggeration_ about pain and misfortune, as if it were a matter of good
behaviour to exaggerate here: on the other hand people are intentionally
silent in regard to the number of expedients for alleviating pain; as
for instance, the deadening of it, or feverish flurry of thought, or a
peaceful position, or good and bad reminiscences, intentions,
hopes,—also many kinds of pride and fellow-feeling which have almost the
effect of anæsthetics: while in the greatest degree of pain fainting
takes place of itself. We understand very well how to pour sweetness on
our bitterness, especially on the bitterness of our soul; we find a
remedy in our bravery and sublimity, as well as in the nobler delirium
of submission and resignation. A loss scarcely remains a loss for an
hour: in some way or other a gift from heaven has always fallen into our
lap at the same moment—a new form of strength, for example: be it but a
new opportunity for the exercise of strength! What have the preachers of
morality not dreamt concerning the inner "misery" of evil men! What
_lies_ have they not told us about the misfortunes of impassioned men!
Yes, lying is here the right word: they were only too well aware of the
overflowing happiness of this kind of man, but they kept silent as death
about it; because it was a refutation of their theory, according to
which happiness only originates through the annihilation of the passions
and the silencing of the will! And finally, as regards the recipe of all
those physicians of the soul and their recommendation of a severe
radical cure, we may be allowed to ask: Is our life really painful and
burdensome enough for us to exchange it with advantage for a Stoical
mode of life, and Stoical petrification? We do _not_ feel _sufficiently
miserable_ to have to feel ill in the Stoical fashion!


                                  327.

_Taking Things Seriously._—The intellect is with most people an awkward,
obscure and creaking machine, which is difficult to set in motion: they
call it "_taking a thing seriously_" when they work with this machine,
and want to think well—oh, how burdensome must good thinking be to them!
That delightful animal, man, seems to lose his good-humour whenever he
thinks well; he becomes "serious"! And "where there is laughing and
gaiety, thinking cannot be worth anything:"—so speaks the prejudice of
this serious animal against all "Joyful Wisdom."—Well, then! Let us show
that it is prejudice!


                                  328.

_Doing Harm to Stupidity._—It is certain that the belief in the
reprehensibility of egoism, preached with such stubbornness and
conviction, has on the whole done harm to egoism (_in favour of the
herd-instinct_, as I shall repeat a hundred times!), especially by
depriving it of a good conscience, and bidding us seek in it the true
source of all misfortune. "Thy selfishness is the bane of thy life"—so
rang the preaching for millenniums: it did harm, as we have said, to
selfishness, and deprived it of much spirit, much cheerfulness, much
ingenuity, and much beauty; it stultified and deformed and poisoned
selfishness!—Philosophical antiquity, on the other hand, taught that
there was another principal source of evil: from Socrates downwards, the
thinkers were never weary of preaching that "your thoughtlessness and
stupidity, your unthinking way of living according to rule, and your
subjection to the opinion of your neighbour, are the reasons why you so
seldom attain to happiness,—we thinkers are, as thinkers, the happiest
of mortals." Let us not decide here whether this preaching against
stupidity was more sound than the preaching against selfishness; it is
certain, however, that stupidity was thereby deprived of its good
conscience:—these philosophers _did harm to stupidity_.


                                  329.

_Leisure and Idleness._—There is an Indian savagery, a savagery peculiar
to the Indian blood, in the manner in which the Americans strive after
gold: and the breathless hurry of their work—the characteristic vice of
the new world—already begins to infect old Europe, and makes it savage
also, spreading over it a strange lack of intellectuality. One is now
ashamed of repose: even long reflection almost causes remorse of
conscience. Thinking is done with a stop-watch, as dining is done with
the eyes fixed on the financial newspaper; we live like men who are
continually "afraid of letting opportunities slip." "Better do anything
whatever, than nothing"—this principle also is a noose with which all
culture and all higher taste may be strangled. And just as all form
obviously disappears in this hurry of workers, so the sense for form
itself, the ear and the eye for the melody of movement, also disappear.
The proof of this is the _clumsy perspicuity_ which is now everywhere
demanded in all positions where a person would like to be sincere with
his fellows, in intercourse with friends, women, relatives, children,
teachers, pupils, leaders and princes,—one has no longer either time or
energy for ceremonies, for roundabout courtesies, for any _esprit_ in
conversation, or for any _otium_ whatever. For life in the hunt for gain
continually compels a person to consume his intellect, even to
exhaustion, in constant dissimulation, overreaching, or forestalling:
the real virtue nowadays is to do something in a shorter time than
another person. And so there are only rare hours of sincere intercourse
_permitted_: in them, however, people are tired, and would not only like
"to let themselves go," but _to stretch their legs_ out wide in awkward
style. The way people write their _letters_ nowadays is quite in keeping
with the age; their style and spirit will always be the true "sign of
the times." If there be still enjoyment in society and in art, it is
enjoyment such as over-worked slaves provide for themselves. Oh, this
moderation in "joy" of our cultured and uncultured classes! Oh, this
increasing suspiciousness of all enjoyment! _Work_ is winning over more
and more the good conscience to its side: the desire for enjoyment
already calls itself "need of recreation," and even begins to be ashamed
of itself. "One owes it to one's health," people say, when they are
caught at a picnic. Indeed, it might soon go so far that one could not
yield to the desire for the _vita contemplativa_ (that is to say,
excursions with thoughts and friends), without self-contempt and a bad
conscience.—Well! Formerly it was the very reverse: it was "action" that
suffered from a bad conscience. A man of good family _concealed_ his
work when need compelled him to labour. The slave laboured under the
weight of the feeling that he did something contemptible:—the "doing"
itself was something contemptible. "Only in _otium_ and _bellum_ is
there nobility and honour:" so rang the voice of ancient prejudice!


                                  330.

_Applause._—The thinker does not need applause nor the clapping of
hands, provided he be sure of the clapping of his own hands: the latter,
however, he cannot do without. Are there men who could also do without
this, and in general without any kind of applause? I doubt it: and even
as regards the wisest, Tacitus, who is no calumniator of the wise, says:
_quando etiam sapientibus gloriæ cupido novissima exuitur_—that means
with him: never.


                                  331.

_Better Deaf than Deafened._—Formerly a person wanted to have a
_calling_, but that no longer suffices to-day, for the market has become
too large,—there has now to be _bawling_. The consequence is that even
good throats outcry each other, and the best wares are offered for sale
with hoarse voices; without market-place bawling and hoarseness there is
now no longer any genius.—It is, sure enough, an evil age for the
thinker: he has to learn to find his stillness betwixt two noises, and
has to pretend to be deaf until he finally becomes so. As long as he has
not learned this, he is in danger of perishing from impatience and
headaches.


                                  332.

_The Evil Hour._—There has perhaps been an evil hour for every
philosopher, in which he thought: What do I matter, if people should not
believe my poor arguments!—And then some malicious bird has flown past
him and twittered: "What do you matter? What do you matter?"


                                  333.

_What does Knowing Mean?_—_Non ridere, non lugere, neque detestari, sed
intelligere!_ says Spinoza, so simply and sublimely, as is his wont.
Nevertheless, what else is this _intelligere_ ultimately, but just the
form in which the three other things become perceptible to us all at
once? A result of the diverging and opposite impulses of desiring to
deride, lament and execrate? Before knowledge is possible each of these
impulses must first have brought forward its one-sided view of the
object or event. The struggle of these one-sided views occurs
afterwards, and out of it there occasionally arises a compromise, a
pacification, a recognition of rights on all three sides, a sort of
justice and agreement: for in virtue of the justice and agreement all
those impulses can maintain themselves in existence and retain their
mutual rights. We, to whose consciousness only the closing
reconciliation scenes and final settling of accounts of these long
processes manifest themselves, think on that account that _intelligere_
is something conciliating, just and good, something essentially
antithetical to the impulses; whereas it is only _a certain relation of
the impulses to one another_. For a very long time conscious thinking
was regarded as thinking proper: it is now only that the truth dawns
upon us that the greater part of our intellectual activity goes on
unconsciously and unfelt by us; I believe, however, that the impulses
which are here in mutual conflict understand right well how to make
themselves felt by _one another_, and how to cause pain:—the violent,
sudden exhaustion which overtakes all thinkers, may have its origin here
(it is the exhaustion of the battle-field). Aye, perhaps in our
struggling interior there is much concealed _heroism_, but certainly
nothing divine, or eternally-reposing-in-itself, as Spinoza supposed.
_Conscious_ thinking, and especially that of the philosopher, is the
weakest, and on that account also the relatively mildest and quietest
mode of thinking: and thus it is precisely the philosopher who is most
easily misled concerning the nature of knowledge.


                                  334.

_One must Learn to Love._—This is our experience in music: we must first
_learn_ in general _to hear_, to hear fully, and to distinguish a theme
or a melody, we have to isolate and limit it as a life by itself; then
we need to exercise effort and good-will in order _to endure_ it in
spite of its strangeness, we need patience towards its aspect and
expression, and indulgence towards what is odd in it:—in the end there
comes a moment when we are _accustomed_ to it, when we expect it, when
it dawns upon us that we should miss it if it were lacking; and then it
goes on to exercise its spell and charm more and more, and does not
cease until we have become its humble and enraptured lovers, who want
it, and want it again, and ask for nothing better from the world.—It is
thus with us, however, not only in music: it is precisely thus that we
have _learned to love_ all things that we now love. We are always
finally recompensed for our good-will, our patience, reasonableness and
gentleness towards what is unfamiliar, by the unfamiliar slowly throwing
off its veil and presenting itself to us as a new, ineffable
beauty:—that is its _thanks_ for our hospitality. He also who loves
himself must have learned it in this way: there is no other way. Love
also has to be learned.


                                  335.

_Cheers for Physics!_—How many men are there who know how to observe?
And among the few who do know,—how many observe themselves? "Everyone is
furthest from himself"—all the "triers of the reins" know that to their
discomfort; and the saying, "Know thyself," in the mouth of a God and
spoken to man, is almost a mockery. But that the case of
self-observation is so desperate, is attested best of all by the manner
in which _almost everybody_ talks of the nature of a moral action, that
prompt, willing, convinced, loquacious manner, with its look, its smile,
and its pleasing eagerness! Everyone seems inclined to say to you: "Why,
my dear Sir, that is precisely _my_ affair! You address yourself with
your question to him who _is authorised_ to answer, for I happen to be
wiser with regard to this matter than in anything else. Therefore, when
a man decides that '_this is right_,' when he accordingly concludes that
'_it must therefore be done_,' and thereupon _does_ what he has thus
recognised as right and designated as necessary—then the nature of his
action is _moral_!" But, my friend, you are talking to me about three
actions instead of one: your deciding, for instance, that "this is
right," is also an action,—could one not judge either morally or
immorally? _Why_ do you regard this, and just this, as right?—"Because
my conscience tells me so; conscience never speaks immorally, indeed it
determines in the first place what shall be moral!"—But why do you
_listen_ to the voice of your conscience? And in how far are you
justified in regarding such a judgment as true and infallible? This
_belief_—is there no further conscience for it? Do you know nothing of
an intellectual conscience? A conscience behind your "conscience"? Your
decision, "this is right," has a previous history in your impulses, your
likes and dislikes, your experiences and non-experiences; "_how_ has it
originated?" you must ask, and afterwards the further question: "_what_
really impels me to give ear to it?" You can listen to its command like
a brave soldier who hears the command of his officer. Or like a woman
who loves him who commands. Or like a flatterer and coward, afraid of
the commander. Or like a blockhead who follows because he has nothing to
say to the contrary. In short, you can give ear to your conscience in a
hundred different ways. But _that_ you hear this or that judgment as the
voice of conscience, consequently, _that_ you feel a thing to be
right—may have its cause in the fact that you have never reflected about
yourself, and have blindly accepted from your childhood what has been
designated to you as _right_: or in the fact that hitherto bread and
honours have fallen to your share with that which you call your duty,—it
is "right" to you, because it seems to be _your_ "condition of
existence" (that you, however, have a _right_ to existence appears to
you as irrefutable!). The _persistency_ of your moral judgment might
still be just a proof of personal wretchedness or impersonality; your
"moral force" might have its source in your obstinacy—or in your
incapacity to perceive new ideals! And to be brief: if you had thought
more acutely, observed more accurately, and had learned more, you would
no longer under all circumstances call this and that your "duty" and
your "conscience": the knowledge _how moral judgments have in general
always originated_, would make you tired of these pathetic words,—as you
have already grown tired of other pathetic words, for instance "sin,"
"salvation," and "redemption."—And now, my friend, do not talk to me
about the categorical imperative! That word tickles my ear, and I must
laugh in spite of your presence and your seriousness. In this connection
I recollect old Kant, who, as a punishment for having _gained possession
surreptitiously_ of the "thing in itself"—also a very ludicrous
affair!—was imposed upon by the categorical imperative, and with that in
his heart _strayed back again_ to "God," the "soul," "freedom," and
"immortality," like a fox which strays back into its cage: and it had
been _his_ strength and shrewdness which had _broken open_ this
cage!—What? You admire the categorical imperative in you? This
"persistency" of your so-called moral judgment? This absoluteness of the
feeling that "as I think on this matter, so must everyone think"? Admire
rather your _selfishness_ therein! And the blindness, paltriness, and
modesty of your selfishness! For it is selfishness in a person to regard
_his_ judgment as universal law, and a blind, paltry and modest
selfishness besides, because it betrays that you have not yet discovered
yourself, that you have not yet created for yourself any individual,
quite individual ideal:—for this could never be the ideal of another, to
say nothing of all, of every one!——He who still thinks that "each would
have to act in this manner in this case," has not yet advanced half a
dozen paces in self-knowledge: otherwise he would know that there
neither are nor can be similar actions,—that every action that has been
done, has been done in an entirely unique and inimitable manner, and
that it will be the same with regard to all future actions; that all
precepts of conduct (and even the most esoteric and subtle precepts of
all moralities up to the present), apply only to the coarse
exterior,—that by means of them, indeed, a semblance of equality can be
attained, _but only a semblance_,—that in outlook or retrospect, _every_
action is and remains an impenetrable affair,—that our opinions of
"good," "noble" and "great" can never be demonstrated by our actions,
because no action is cognisable,—that our opinions, estimates, and
tables of values are certainly among the most powerful levers in the
mechanism of our actions, that in every single case, nevertheless, the
law of their mechanism is untraceable. Let us _confine_ ourselves,
therefore, to the purification of our opinions and appreciations, and to
the _construction of new tables of value of our own_:—we will, however,
brood no longer over the "moral worth of our actions"! Yes, my friends!
As regards the whole moral twaddle of people about one another, it is
time to be disgusted with it! To sit in judgment morally ought to be
opposed to our taste! Let us leave this nonsense and this bad taste to
those who have nothing else to do, save to drag the past a little
distance further through time, and who are never themselves the
present,—consequently to the many, to the majority! We, however, _would
seek to become what we are_,—the new, the unique, the incomparable,
making laws for ourselves and creating ourselves! And for this purpose
we must become the best students and discoverers of all the laws and
necessities in the world. We must be _physicists_ in order to be
_creators_ in that sense,—whereas hitherto all appreciations and ideals
have been based on _ignorance_ of physics, or in _contradiction_ to it.
And therefore, three cheers for physics! And still louder cheers for
that which _impels_ us to it—our honesty.


                                  336.

_Avarice of Nature._—Why has nature been so niggardly towards humanity
that she has not let human beings shine, this man more and that man
less, according to their inner abundance of light? Why have not great
men such a fine visibility in their rising and setting as the sun? How
much less equivocal would life among men then be!


                                  337.

_Future "Humanity."_—When I look at this age with the eye of a distant
future, I find nothing so remarkable in the man of the present day as
his peculiar virtue and sickness called "the historical sense." It is a
tendency to something quite new and foreign in history: if this embryo
were given several centuries and more, there might finally evolve out of
it a marvellous plant, with a smell equally marvellous, on account of
which our old earth might be more pleasant to live in than it has been
hitherto. We moderns are just beginning to form the chain of a very
powerful, future sentiment, link by link,—we hardly know what we are
doing. It almost seems to us as if it were not the question of a new
sentiment, but of the decline of all old sentiments:—the historical
sense is still something so poor and cold, and many are attacked by it
as by a frost, and are made poorer and colder by it. To others it
appears as the indication of stealthily approaching age, and our planet
is regarded by them as a melancholy invalid, who, in order to forget his
present condition, writes the history of his youth. In fact, this is one
aspect of the new sentiment. He who knows how to regard the history of
man in its entirety as _his own history_, feels in the immense
generalisation all the grief of the invalid who thinks of health, of the
old man who thinks of the dream of his youth, of the lover who is robbed
of his beloved, of the martyr whose ideal is destroyed, of the hero on
the evening of the indecisive battle which has brought him wounds and
the loss of a friend. But to bear this immense sum of grief of all
kinds, to be able to bear it, and yet still be the hero who at the
commencement of a second day of battle greets the dawn and his
happiness, as one who has an horizon of centuries before and behind him,
as the heir of all nobility, of all past intellect, and the obligatory
heir (as the noblest) of all the old nobles; while at the same time the
first of a new nobility, the equal of which has never been seen nor even
dreamt of: to take all this upon his soul, the oldest, the newest, the
losses, hopes, conquests, and victories of mankind: to have all this at
last in one soul, and to comprise it in one feeling:—this would
necessarily furnish a happiness which man has not hitherto known,—a
God's happiness, full of power and love, full of tears and laughter, a
happiness which, like the sun in the evening, continually gives of its
inexhaustible riches and empties into the sea,—and like the sun, too,
feels itself richest when even the poorest fisherman rows with golden
oars! This divine feeling might then be called—humanity!


                                  338.

_The Will to Suffering and the Compassionate._—Is it to your advantage
to be above all compassionate? And is it to the advantage of the
sufferers when you are so? But let us leave the first question for a
moment without an answer.—That from which we suffer most profoundly and
personally is almost incomprehensible and inaccessible to every one
else: in this matter we are hidden from our neighbour even when he eats
at the same table with us. Everywhere, however, where we are _noticed_
as sufferers, our suffering is interpreted in a shallow way; it belongs
to the nature of the emotion of pity to _divest_ unfamiliar suffering of
its properly personal character:—our "benefactors" lower our value and
volition more than our enemies. In most benefits which are conferred on
the unfortunate there is something shocking in the intellectual levity
with which the compassionate person plays the rôle of fate: he knows
nothing of all the inner consequences and complications which are called
misfortune for _me_ or for _you_! The entire economy of my soul and its
adjustment by "misfortune," the uprising of new sources and needs, the
closing up of old wounds, the repudiation of whole periods of the
past—none of these things which may be connected with misfortune
preoccupy the dear sympathiser. He wishes _to succour_, and does not
reflect that there is a personal necessity for misfortune; that terror,
want, impoverishment, midnight watches, adventures, hazards and mistakes
are as necessary to me and to you as their opposites, yea, that, to
speak mystically, the path to one's own heaven always leads through the
voluptuousness of one's own hell. No, he knows nothing thereof. The
"religion of compassion" (or "the heart") bids him help, and he thinks
he has helped best when he has helped most speedily! If you adherents of
this religion actually have the same sentiments towards yourselves which
you have towards your fellows, if you are unwilling to endure your own
suffering even for an hour, and continually forestall all possible
misfortune, if you regard suffering and pain generally as evil, as
detestable, as deserving of annihilation, and as blots on existence,
well, you have then, besides your religion of compassion, yet another
religion in your heart (and this is perhaps the mother of the
former)—_the religion of smug ease_. Ah, how little you know of the
_happiness_ of man, you comfortable and good-natured ones!—for happiness
and misfortune are brother and sister, and twins, who grow tall
together, or, as with you, _remain small_ together! But now let us
return to the first question.—How is it at all possible for a person to
keep to _his_ path! Some cry or other is continually calling one aside:
our eye then rarely lights on anything without it becoming necessary for
us to leave for a moment our own affairs and rush to give assistance. I
know there are hundreds of respectable and laudable methods of making me
stray _from my course_, and in truth the most "moral" of methods!
Indeed, the opinion of the present-day preachers of the morality of
compassion goes so far as to imply that just this, and this alone is
moral:—to stray from _our_ course to that extent and to run to the
assistance of our neighbour. I am equally certain that I need only give
myself over to the sight of one case of actual distress, and I, too,
_am_ lost! And if a suffering friend said to me, "See, I shall soon die,
only promise to die with me"—I might promise it, just as—to select for
once bad examples for good reasons—the sight of a small, mountain people
struggling for freedom, would bring me to the point of offering them my
hand and my life. Indeed, there is even a secret seduction in all this
awakening of compassion, and calling for help: our "own way" is a thing
too hard and insistent, and too far removed from the love and gratitude
of others,—we escape from it and from our most personal conscience, not
at all unwillingly, and, seeking security in the conscience of others,
we take refuge in the lovely temple of the "religion of pity." As soon
now as any war breaks out, there always breaks out at the same time a
certain secret delight precisely in the noblest class of the people:
they rush with rapture to meet the new danger of _death_, because they
believe that in the sacrifice for their country they have finally that
long-sought-for permission—the permission _to shirk their aim_:—war is
for them a detour to suicide, a detour, however, with a good conscience.
And although silent here about some things, I will not, however, be
silent about my morality, which says to me: Live in concealment in order
that thou _mayest_ live to thyself. Live _ignorant_ of that which seems
to thy age to be most important! Put at least the skin of three
centuries betwixt thyself and the present day! And the clamour of the
present day, the noise of wars and revolutions, ought to be a murmur to
thee! Thou wilt also want to help, but only those whose distress thou
entirely _understandest_, because they have _one_ sorrow and _one_ hope
in common with thee—thy _friends_: and only in _the_ way that thou
helpest thyself:—I want to make them more courageous, more enduring,
more simple, more joyful! I want to teach them that which at present so
few understand, and the preachers of fellowship in sorrow least of
all:—namely, _fellowship in joy_!


                                  339.

_Vita femina._—To see the ultimate beauties in a work—all knowledge and
good-will is not enough; it requires the rarest, good chance for the
veil of clouds to move for once from the summits, and for the sun to
shine on them. We must not only stand at precisely the right place to
see this, our very soul itself must have pulled away the veil from its
heights, and must be in need of an external expression and simile, so as
to have a support and remain master of itself. All these, however, are
so rarely united at the same time that I am inclined to believe that the
highest summit of all that is good, be it work, deed, man, or nature,
has hitherto remained for most people, and even for the best, as
something concealed and shrouded:—that, however, which unveils itself to
us, _unveils itself to us but once_. The Greeks indeed prayed: "Twice
and thrice, everything beautiful!" Ah, they had their good reason to
call on the Gods, for ungodly actuality does not furnish us with the
beautiful at all, or only does so once! I mean to say that the world is
overfull of beautiful things, but it is nevertheless poor, very poor, in
beautiful moments, and in the unveiling of those beautiful things. But
perhaps this is the greatest charm of life: it puts a gold-embroidered
veil of lovely potentialities over itself, promising, resisting, modest,
mocking, sympathetic, seductive. Yes, life is a woman!


                                  340.

_The Dying Socrates._—I admire the courage and wisdom of Socrates in all
that he did, said—and did not say. This mocking and amorous demon and
rat-catcher of Athens, who made the most insolent youths tremble and sob
was not only the wisest babbler that has ever lived, but was just as
great in his silence. I would that he had also been silent in the last
moment of his life,—perhaps he might then have belonged to a still
higher order of intellects. Whether it was death, or the poison, or
piety, or wickedness—something or other loosened his tongue at that
moment, and he said: "O Crito, I owe a cock to Asclepios." For him who
has ears, this ludicrous and terrible "last word" implies: "O Crito,
_life is a long sickness_!" Is it possible! A man like him, who had
lived cheerfully and to all appearance as a soldier,—was a pessimist! He
had merely put on a good demeanour towards life, and had all along
concealed his ultimate judgment, his profoundest sentiment! Socrates,
Socrates _had suffered from life_! And he also took his revenge for
it—with that veiled, fearful, pious, and blasphemous phrase! Had even a
Socrates to revenge himself? Was there a grain too little of magnanimity
in his superabundant virtue? Ah, my friends! We must surpass even the
Greeks!


                                  341.

_The Heaviest Burden._—What if a demon crept after thee into thy
loneliest loneliness some day or night, and said to thee: "This life, as
thou livest it at present, and hast lived it, thou must live it once
more, and also innumerable times; and there will be nothing new in it,
but every pain and every joy and every thought and every sigh, and all
the unspeakably small and great in thy life must come to thee again, and
all in the same series and sequence—and similarly this spider and this
moonlight among the trees, and similarly this moment, and I myself. The
eternal sand-glass of existence will ever be turned once more, and thou
with it, thou speck of dust!"—Wouldst thou not throw thyself down and
gnash thy teeth, and curse the demon that so spake? Or hast thou once
experienced a tremendous moment in which thou wouldst answer him: "Thou
art a God, and never did I hear aught more divine!" If that thought
acquired power over thee, as thou art, it would transform thee, and
perhaps crush thee; the question with regard to all and everything:
"Dost thou want this once more, and also for innumerable times?" would
lie as the heaviest burden upon thy activity! Or, how wouldst thou have
to become favourably inclined to thyself and to life, so as _to long for
nothing more ardently_ than for this last eternal sanctioning and
sealing?—


                                  342.

_Incipit Tragœdia._—When Zarathustra was thirty years old, he left his
home and the Lake of Urmi, and went into the mountains. There he enjoyed
his spirit and his solitude, and for ten years did not weary of it. But
at last his heart changed,—and rising one morning with the rosy dawn, he
went before the sun and spake thus unto it: "Thou great star! What would
be thy happiness if thou hadst not those for whom thou shinest! For ten
years hast thou climbed hither unto my cave: thou wouldst have wearied
of thy light and of the journey, had it not been for me, mine eagle, and
my serpent. But we awaited thee every morning, took from thee thine
overflow, and blessed thee for it. Lo! I am weary of my wisdom, like the
bee that hath gathered too much honey; I need hands outstretched to take
it. I would fain bestow and distribute, until the wise have once more
become joyous in their folly, and the poor happy in their riches.
Therefore must I descend into the deep, as thou doest in the evening,
when thou goest behind the sea and givest light also to the
nether-world, thou most rich star! Like thee must I _go down_, as men
say, to whom I shall descend. Bless me then, thou tranquil eye, that
canst behold even the greatest happiness without envy! Bless the cup
that is about to overflow, that the water may flow golden out of it, and
carry everywhere the reflection of thy bliss! Lo! This cup is again
going to empty itself, and Zarathustra is again going to be a man."—Thus
began Zarathustra's down-going.

-----

Footnote 10:

  The distinction between ethos and pathos in Aristotle is, broadly,
  that between internal character and external circumstance.—P. V. C.




                               BOOK FIFTH

                            WE FEARLESS ONES


                                          "Carcasse, tu trembles? Tu
                                          tremblerais bien davantage, si
                                          tu savais, où je te mène."—
                                          _Turenne._


                                  343.

_What our Cheerfulness Signifies._—The most important of more recent
events—that "God is dead," that the belief in the Christian God has
become unworthy of belief—already begins to cast its first shadows over
Europe. To the few at least whose eye, whose _suspecting_ glance, is
strong enough and subtle enough for this drama, some sun seems to have
set, some old, profound confidence seems to have changed into doubt: our
old world must seem to them daily more darksome, distrustful, strange
and "old." In the main, however, one may say that the event itself is
far too great, too remote, too much beyond most people's power of
apprehension, for one to suppose that so much as the report of it could
have _reached_ them; not to speak of many who already knew _what_ had
really taken place, and what must all collapse now that this belief had
been undermined,—because so much was built upon it, so much rested on
it, and had become one with it: for example, our entire European
morality. This lengthy, vast and uninterrupted process of crumbling,
destruction, ruin and overthrow which is now imminent: who has realised
it sufficiently to-day to have to stand up as the teacher and herald of
such a tremendous logic of terror, as the prophet of a period of gloom
and eclipse, the like of which has probably never taken place on earth
before?... Even we, the born riddle-readers, who wait as it were on the
mountains posted 'twixt to-day and to-morrow, and engirt by their
contradiction, we, the firstlings and premature children of the coming
century, into whose sight especially the shadows which must forthwith
envelop Europe _should_ already have come—how is it that even we,
without genuine sympathy for this period of gloom, contemplate its
advent without any _personal_ solicitude or fear? Are we still, perhaps,
too much under the _immediate effects_ of the event—and are these
effects, especially as regards _ourselves_, perhaps the reverse of what
was to be expected—not at all sad and depressing, but rather like a new
and indescribable variety of light, happiness, relief, enlivenment,
encouragement, and dawning day?... In fact, we philosophers and "free
spirits" feel ourselves irradiated as by a new dawn by the report that
the "old God is dead"; our hearts overflow with gratitude, astonishment,
presentiment and expectation. At last the horizon seems open once more,
granting even that it is not bright; our ships can at last put out to
sea in face of every danger; every hazard is again permitted to the
discerner; the sea, _our_ sea, again lies open before us; perhaps never
before did such an "open sea" exist.—


                                  344.

_To what Extent even We are still Pious._—It is said with good reason
that convictions have no civic rights in the domain of science: it is
only when a conviction voluntarily condescends to the modesty of an
hypothesis, a preliminary standpoint for experiment, or a regulative
fiction, that its access to the realm of knowledge, and a certain value
therein, can be conceded,—always, however, with the restriction that it
must remain under police supervision, under the police of our
distrust.—Regarded more accurately, however, does not this imply that
only when a conviction _ceases_ to be a conviction can it obtain
admission into science? Does not the discipline of the scientific spirit
just commence when one no longer harbours any conviction?... It is
probably so: only, it remains to be asked whether, _in order that this
discipline may commence_, it is not necessary that there should already
be a conviction, and in fact one so imperative and absolute, that it
makes a sacrifice of all other convictions. One sees that science also
rests on a belief: there is no science at all "without premises." The
question whether _truth_ is necessary, must not merely be affirmed
beforehand, but must be affirmed to such an extent that the principle,
belief, or conviction finds expression, that "there is _nothing more
necessary_ than truth, and in comparison with it everything else has
only a secondary value."—This absolute will to truth: what is it? Is it
the will _not to allow ourselves to be deceived_? Is it the will _not to
deceive_? For the will to truth could also be interpreted in this
fashion, provided one includes under the generalisation, "I will not
deceive," the special case, "I will not deceive myself." But why not
deceive? Why not allow oneself to be deceived?—Let it be noted that the
reasons for the former eventuality belong to a category quite different
from those for the latter: one does not want to be deceived oneself,
under the supposition that it is injurious, dangerous, or fatal to be
deceived,—in this sense science would be a prolonged process of caution,
foresight and utility; against which, however, one might reasonably make
objections. What? is not-wishing-to-be-deceived really less injurious,
less dangerous, less fatal? What do you know of the character of
existence in all its phases to be able to decide whether the greater
advantage is on the side of absolute distrust, or of absolute
trustfulness? In case, however, of both being necessary, much trusting
_and_ much distrusting, whence then should science derive the absolute
belief, the conviction on which it rests, that truth is more important
than anything else, even than every other conviction? This conviction
could not have arisen if truth _and_ untruth had both continually proved
themselves to be useful: as is the case. Thus—the belief in science,
which now undeniably exists, cannot have had its origin in such a
utilitarian calculation, but rather _in spite of_ the fact of the
inutility and dangerousness of the "Will to truth," of "truth at all
costs," being continually demonstrated. "At all costs": alas, we
understand that sufficiently well, after having sacrificed and
slaughtered one belief after another at this altar!—Consequently, "Will
to truth" does _not_ imply, "I will not allow myself to be deceived,"
but—there is no other alternative—"I will not deceive, not even myself":
_and thus we have reached the realm of morality_. For, let one just ask
oneself fairly: "Why wilt thou not deceive?" especially if it should
seem—and it does seem—as if life were laid out with a view to
appearance, I mean, with a view to error, deceit, dissimulation,
delusion, self-delusion; and when on the other hand it is a matter of
fact that the great type of life has always manifested itself on the
side of the most unscrupulous πολύτροποι. Such an intention might
perhaps, to express it mildly, be a piece of Quixotism, a little
enthusiastic craziness; it might also, however, be something worse,
namely, a destructive principle, hostile to life.... "Will to
Truth,"—that might be a concealed Will to Death.—Thus the question, Why
is there science? leads back to the moral problem: _What in general is
the purpose of morality_, if life, nature, and history are "non-moral"?
There is no doubt that the conscientious man in the daring and extreme
sense in which he is presupposed by the belief in science, _affirms
thereby a world other than_ that of life, nature, and history; and in so
far as he affirms this "other world," what? must he not just
thereby—deny its counterpart, this world, _our_ world?... But what I
have in view will now be understood, namely, that it is always a
_metaphysical belief_ on which our belief in science rests,—and that
even we knowing ones of to-day, the godless and anti-metaphysical, still
take _our_ fire from the conflagration kindled by a belief a millennium
old, the Christian belief, which was also the belief of Plato, that God
is truth, that the truth is divine.... But what if this itself always
becomes more untrustworthy, what if nothing any longer proves itself
divine, except it be error, blindness, and falsehood;—what if God
himself turns out to be our most persistent lie?—


                                  345.

_Morality as a Problem._—A defect in personality revenges itself
everywhere: an enfeebled, lank, obliterated, self-disavowing and
disowning personality is no longer fit for anything good—it is least of
all fit for philosophy. "Selflessness" has no value either in heaven or
on earth; the great problems all demand _great love_, and it is only the
strong, well-rounded, secure spirits, those who have a solid basis, that
are qualified for them. It makes the most material difference whether a
thinker stands personally related to his problems, having his fate, his
need, and even his highest happiness therein; or merely impersonally,
that is to say, if he can only feel and grasp them with the tentacles of
cold, prying thought. In the latter case I warrant that nothing comes of
it: for the great problems, granting that they let themselves be grasped
at all, do not let themselves be _held_ by toads and weaklings: that has
ever been their taste—a taste also which they share with all
high-spirited women.—How is it that I have not yet met with any one, not
even in books, who seems to have stood to morality in this position, as
one who knew morality as a problem, and this problem as _his own_
personal need, affliction, pleasure and passion? It is obvious that up
to the present morality has not been a problem at all; it has rather
been the very ground on which people have met, after all distrust,
dissension, and contradiction, the hallowed place of peace, where
thinkers could obtain rest even from themselves, could recover breath
and revive. I see no one who has ventured to _criticise_ the estimates
of moral worth. I miss in this connection even the attempts of
scientific curiosity, and the fastidious, groping imagination of
psychologists and historians, which easily anticipates a problem and
catches it on the wing, without rightly knowing what it catches. With
difficulty I have discovered some scanty data for the purpose of
furnishing a _history of the origin_ of these feelings and estimates of
value (which is something different from a criticism of them, and also
something different from a history of ethical systems). In an individual
case, I have done everything to encourage the inclination and talent for
this kind of history—in vain, as it would seem to me at present. There
is little to be learned from those historians of morality (especially
Englishmen): they themselves are usually, quite unsuspiciously, under
the influence of a definite morality, and act unwittingly as its
armour-bearers and followers—perhaps still repeating sincerely the
popular superstition of Christian Europe, that the characteristic of
moral action consists in abnegation, self-denial, self-sacrifice, or in
fellow-feeling and fellow-suffering. The usual error in their premises
is their insistence on a certain _consensus_ among human beings, at
least among civilised human beings, with regard to certain propositions
of morality, and from thence they conclude that these propositions are
absolutely binding even upon you and me; or reversely, they come to the
conclusion that _no_ morality at all is binding, after the truth has
dawned upon them that to different peoples moral valuations are
_necessarily_ different: both of which conclusions are equally childish
follies. The error of the more subtle amongst them is that they discover
and criticise the probably foolish opinions of a people about its own
morality, or the opinions of mankind about human morality generally;
they treat accordingly of its origin, its religious sanctions, the
superstition of free will, and such matters; and they think that just by
so doing they have criticised the morality itself. But the worth of a
precept, "Thou shalt," is still fundamentally different from and
independent of such opinions about it, and must be distinguished from
the weeds of error with which it has perhaps been overgrown: just as the
worth of a medicine to a sick person is altogether independent of the
question whether he has a scientific opinion about medicine, or merely
thinks about it as an old wife would do. A morality could even have
grown _out of_ an error: but with this knowledge the problem of its
worth would not even be touched.—Thus, no one has hitherto tested the
_value_ of that most celebrated of all medicines, called morality: for
which purpose it is first of all necessary for one—_to call it in
question_. Well, that is just our work.—


                                  346.

_Our Note of Interrogation._—But you don't understand it? As a matter of
fact, an effort will be necessary in order to understand us. We seek for
words; we seek perhaps also for ears. Who are we after all? If we wanted
simply to call ourselves in older phraseology, atheists, unbelievers, or
even immoralists, we should still be far from thinking ourselves
designated thereby: we are all three in too late a phase for people
generally to conceive, for _you_, my inquisitive friends, to be able to
conceive, what is our state of mind under the circumstances. No! we have
no longer the bitterness and passion of him who has broken loose, who
has to make for himself a belief, a goal, and even a martyrdom out of
his unbelief! We have become saturated with the conviction (and have
grown cold and hard in it) that things are not at all divinely ordered
in this world, nor even according to human standards do they go on
rationally, mercifully, or justly: we know the fact that the world in
which we live is ungodly, immoral, and "inhuman,"—we have far too long
interpreted it to ourselves falsely and mendaciously, according to the
wish and will of our veneration, that is to say, according to our
_need_. For man is a venerating animal! But he is also a distrustful
animal: and that the world is _not_ worth what we have believed it to be
worth is about the surest thing our distrust has at last managed to
grasp. So much distrust, so much philosophy! We take good care not to
say that the world is of _less_ value: it seems to us at present
absolutely ridiculous when man claims to devise values _to surpass_ the
values of the actual world,—it is precisely from that point that we have
retraced our steps; as from an extravagant error of human conceit and
irrationality, which for a long period has not been recognised as such.
This error had its last expression in modern Pessimism; an older and
stronger manifestation in the teaching of Buddha; but Christianity also
contains it, more dubiously, to be sure, and more ambiguously, but none
the less seductive on that account. The whole attitude of "man _versus_
the world," man as world-denying principle, man as the standard of the
value of things, as judge of the world, who in the end puts existence
itself on his scales and finds it too light—the monstrous impertinence
of this attitude has dawned upon us as such, and has disgusted us,—we
now laugh when we find, "Man _and_ World" placed beside one another,
separated by the sublime presumption of the little word "and"! But how
is it? Have we not in our very laughing just made a further step in
despising mankind? And consequently also in Pessimism, in despising the
existence cognisable _by us_? Have we not just thereby become liable to
a suspicion of an opposition between the world in which we have hitherto
been at home with our venerations—for the sake of which we perhaps
_endure_ life—and another world _which we ourselves are_: an inexorable,
radical, most profound suspicion concerning ourselves, which is
continually getting us Europeans more annoyingly into its power, and
could easily face the coming generation with the terrible alternative:
"Either do away with your venerations, or—_with yourselves_!" The latter
would be Nihilism—but would not the former also be Nihilism? This is
_our_ note of interrogation.


                                  347.

_Believers and their Need of Belief._—How much _faith_ a person requires
in order to flourish, how much "fixed opinion" he requires which he does
not wish to have shaken, because he _holds_ himself thereby—is a measure
of his power (or more plainly speaking, of his weakness). Most people in
old Europe, as it seems to me, still need Christianity at present, and
on that account it still finds belief. For such is man: a theological
dogma might be refuted to him a thousand times,—provided, however, that
he had need of it, he would again and again accept it as
"true,"—according to the famous "proof of power" of which the Bible
speaks. Some have still need of metaphysics; but also the impatient
_longing for certainty_ which at present discharges itself in
scientific, positivist fashion among large numbers of the people, the
longing by all means to get at something stable (while on account of the
warmth of the longing the establishing of the certainty is more
leisurely and negligently undertaken): even this is still the longing
for a hold, a support; in short, the _instinct of weakness_, which,
while not actually creating religions, metaphysics, and convictions of
all kinds, nevertheless—preserves them. In fact, around all these
positivist systems there fume the vapours of a certain pessimistic
gloom, something of weariness, fatalism, disillusionment, and fear of
new disillusionment—or else manifest animosity, ill-humour, anarchic
exasperation, and whatever there is of symptom or masquerade of the
feeling of weakness. Even the readiness with which our cleverest
contemporaries get lost in wretched corners and alleys, for example, in
Vaterländerei (so I designate Jingoism, called _chauvinisme_ in France,
and "_deutsch_" in Germany), or in petty æsthetic creeds in the manner
of Parisian _naturalisme_ (which only brings into prominence and
uncovers _that_ aspect of nature which excites simultaneously disgust
and astonishment—they like at present to call this aspect _la vérité
vraie_), or in Nihilism in the St Petersburg style (that is to say, in
the _belief in unbelief_, even to martyrdom for it):—this shows always
and above all the need of belief, support, backbone, and buttress....
Belief is always most desired, most pressingly needed where there is a
lack of will: for the will, as emotion of command, is the distinguishing
characteristic of sovereignty and power. That is to say, the less a
person knows how to command, the more urgent is his desire for one who
commands, who commands sternly,—a God, a prince, a caste, a physician, a
confessor, a dogma, a party conscience. From whence perhaps it could be
inferred that the two world-religions, Buddhism and Christianity, might
well have had the cause of their rise, and especially of their rapid
extension, in an extraordinary _malady of the will_. And in truth it has
been so: both religions lighted upon a longing, monstrously exaggerated
by malady of the will, for an imperative, a "Thou-shalt," a longing
going the length of despair; both religions were teachers of fanaticism
in times of slackness of will-power, and thereby offered to innumerable
persons a support, a new possibility of exercising will, an enjoyment in
willing. For in fact fanaticism is the sole "volitional strength" to
which the weak and irresolute can be excited, as a sort of hypnotising
of the entire sensory-intellectual system, in favour of the
over-abundant nutrition (hypertrophy) of a particular point of view and
a particular sentiment, which then dominates—the Christian calls it his
_faith_. When a man arrives at the fundamental conviction that he
_requires_ to be commanded, he becomes "a believer." Reversely, one
could imagine a delight and a power of self-determining, and a _freedom_
of will whereby a spirit could bid farewell to every belief, to every
wish for certainty, accustomed as it would be to support itself on
slender cords and possibilities, and to dance even on the verge of
abysses. Such a spirit would be the _free spirit par excellence_.


                                  348.

_The Origin of the Learned._—The learned man in Europe grows out of all
the different ranks and social conditions, like a plant requiring no
specific soil: on that account he belongs essentially and involuntarily
to the partisans of democratic thought. But this origin betrays itself.
If one has trained one's glance to some extent to recognise in a learned
book or scientific treatise the intellectual _idiosyncrasy_ of the
learned man—all of them have such idiosyncrasy,—and if we take it by
surprise, we shall almost always get a glimpse behind it of the
"antecedent history" of the learned man and his family, especially of
the nature of their callings and occupations. Where the feeling finds
expression, "That is at last proved, I am now done with it," it is
commonly the ancestor in the blood and instincts of the learned man that
approves of the "accomplished work" in the nook from which he sees
things;—the belief in the proof is only an indication of what has been
looked upon for ages by a laborious family as "good work." Take an
example: the sons of registrars and office-clerks of every kind, whose
main task has always been to arrange a variety of material, distribute
it in drawers, and systematise it generally, evince, when they become
learned men, an inclination to regard a problem as almost solved when
they have systematised it. There are philosophers who are at bottom
nothing but systematising brains—the formal part of the paternal
occupation has become its essence to them. The talent for
classifications, for tables of categories, betrays something; it is not
for nothing that a person is the child of his parents. The son of an
advocate will also have to be an advocate as investigator: he seeks as a
first consideration, to carry the point in his case, as a second
consideration, he perhaps seeks to be in the right. One recognises the
sons of Protestant clergymen and schoolmasters by the naïve assurance
with which as learned men they already assume their case to be proved,
when it has but been presented by them staunchly and warmly: they are
thoroughly accustomed to people _believing_ in them,—it belonged to
their fathers' "trade"! A Jew, contrariwise, in accordance with his
business surroundings and the past of his race, is least of all
accustomed—to people believing him. Observe Jewish scholars with regard
to this matter,—they all lay great stress on logic, that is to say, on
_compelling_ assent by means of reasons; they know that they must
conquer thereby, even when race and class antipathy is against them,
even where people are unwilling to believe them. For in fact, nothing is
more democratic than logic: it knows no respect of persons, and takes
even the crooked nose as straight. (In passing we may remark that in
respect to logical thinking, in respect to _cleaner_ intellectual
habits, Europe is not a little indebted to the Jews; above all the
Germans, as being a lamentably _déraisonnable_ race, who, even at the
present day, must always have their "heads washed"[11] in the first
place. Wherever the Jews have attained to influence, they have taught to
analyse more subtly, to argue more acutely, to write more clearly and
purely: it has always been their problem to bring a people "to
_raison_.")


                                  349.

_The Origin of the Learned once more._—To seek self-preservation merely,
is the expression of a state of distress, or of limitation of the true,
fundamental instinct of life, which aims at the _extension of power_,
and with this in view often enough calls in question self-preservation
and sacrifices it. It should be taken as symptomatic when individual
philosophers, as for example, the consumptive Spinoza, have seen and
have been obliged to see the principal feature of life precisely in the
so-called self-preservative instinct:—they have just been men in states
of distress. That our modern natural sciences have entangled themselves
so much with Spinoza's dogma (finally and most grossly in Darwinism,
with its inconceivably one-sided doctrine of the "struggle for
existence"—), is probably owing to the origin of most of the inquirers
into nature: they belong in this respect to the people, their
forefathers have been poor and humble persons, who knew too well by
immediate experience the difficulty of making a living. Over the whole
of English Darwinism there hovers something of the suffocating air of
over-crowded England, something of the odour of humble people in need
and in straits. But as an investigator of nature, a person ought to
emerge from his paltry human nook: and in nature the state of distress
does not _prevail_, but superfluity, even prodigality to the extent of
folly. The struggle for existence is only an _exception_, a temporary
restriction of the will to live; the struggle, be it great or small,
turns everywhere on predominance, on increase and expansion, on power,
in conformity to the will to power, which is just the will to live.


                                  350.

_In Honour of Homines Religiosi._—The struggle against the church is
most certainly (among other things—for it has a manifold significance)
the struggle of the more ordinary, cheerful, confiding, superficial
natures against the rule of the graver, profounder, more contemplative
natures, that is to say, the more malign and suspicious men, who with
long continued distrust in the worth of life, brood also over their own
worth:—the ordinary instinct of the people, its sensual gaiety, its
"good heart," revolts against them. The entire Roman Church rests on a
Southern suspicion of the nature of man (always misunderstood in the
North), a suspicion whereby the European South has succeeded to the
inheritance of the profound Orient—the mysterious, venerable Asia—and
its contemplative spirit. Protestantism was a popular insurrection in
favour of the simple, the respectable, the superficial (the North has
always been more good-natured and more shallow than the South), but it
was the French Revolution that first gave the sceptre wholly and
solemnly into the hands of the "good man" (the sheep, the ass, the
goose, and everything incurably shallow, bawling, and fit for the Bedlam
of "modern ideas").


                                  351.

_In Honour of Priestly Natures._—I think that philosophers have always
felt themselves furthest removed from that which the people (in all
classes of society nowadays) take for wisdom: the prudent, bovine
placidity, piety, and country-parson meekness, which lies in the meadow
and _gazes at_ life seriously and ruminatingly:—this is probably because
philosophers have not had sufficiently the taste of the "people," or of
the country-parson for that kind of wisdom. Philosophers will also
perhaps be the latest to acknowledge that the people _should_ understand
something of that which lies furthest from them, something of the great
_passion_ of the thinker, who lives and must live continually in the
storm-cloud of the highest problems and the heaviest responsibilities
(consequently, not gazing at all, to say nothing of doing so
indifferently, securely, objectively). The people venerate an entirely
different type of man when on their part they form the ideal of a
"sage," and they are a thousand times justified in rendering homage with
the highest eulogies and honours to precisely that type of men—namely,
the gentle, serious, simple, chaste, priestly natures and those related
to them,—it is to them that the praise falls due in the popular
veneration of wisdom. And to whom should the people ever have more
reason to be grateful than to these men who pertain to its class and
rise from its ranks, but are persons consecrated, chosen, and
_sacrificed_ for its good—they themselves believe themselves sacrificed
to God,—before whom the people can pour forth its heart with impunity,
by whom it can _get rid_ of its secrets, cares, and worse things (for
the man who "communicates himself" gets rid of himself, and he who has
"confessed" forgets). Here there exists a great need: for sewers and
pure cleansing waters are required also for spiritual filth, and rapid
currents of love are needed, and strong, lowly, pure hearts, who qualify
and sacrifice themselves for such service of the non-public health
department—for it _is_ a sacrificing, the priest is, and continues to
be, a human sacrifice.... The people regard such sacrificed, silent,
serious men of "faith" as "_wise_," that is to say, as men who have
become sages, as "reliable" in relation to their own unreliability. Who
would desire to deprive the people of that expression and that
veneration?—But as is fair on the other side, among philosophers the
priest also is still held to belong to the "people," and is _not_
regarded as a sage, because, above all, they themselves do not believe
in "sages," and they already scent "the people" in this very belief and
superstition. It was _modesty_ which invented in Greece the word
"philosopher," and left to the play-actors of the spirit the superb
arrogance of assuming the name "wise"—the modesty of such monsters of
pride and self-glorification as Pythagoras and Plato.—


                                  352.

_Why we can hardly Dispense with Morality._—The naked man is generally
an ignominious spectacle—I speak of us European males (and by no means
of European females!). If the most joyous company at table suddenly
found themselves stripped and divested of their garments through the
trick of an enchanter, I believe that not only would the joyousness be
gone and the strongest appetite lost;—it seems that we Europeans cannot
at all dispense with the masquerade that is called clothing. But should
not the disguise of "moral men," the screening under moral formulæ and
notions of decency, the whole kindly concealment of our conduct under
conceptions of duty, virtue, public sentiment, honourableness, and
disinterestedness, have just as good reasons in support of it? Not that
I mean hereby that human wickedness and baseness, in short, the evil
wild beast in us, should be disguised; on the contrary, my idea is that
it is precisely as _tame animals_ that we are an ignominious spectacle
and require moral disguising,—that the "inner man" in Europe is far from
having enough of intrinsic evil "to let himself be seen" with it (to be
_beautiful_ with it). The European disguises himself _in morality_
because he has become a sick, sickly, crippled animal, who has good
reasons for being "tame," because he is almost an abortion, an
imperfect, weak and clumsy thing.... It is not the fierceness of the
beast of prey that finds moral disguise necessary, but the gregarious
animal, with its profound mediocrity, anxiety and ennui. _Morality
dresses up the European_—let us acknowledge it!—in more distinguished,
more important, more conspicuous guise—in "divine" guise—


                                  353.

_The Origin of Religions._—The real inventions of founders of religions
are, on the one hand, to establish a definite mode of life and everyday
custom, which operates as _disciplina voluntatis_, and at the same time
does away with ennui; and on the other hand, to give to that very mode
of life an _interpretation_, by virtue of which it appears illumined
with the highest value; so that it henceforth becomes a good for which
people struggle, and under certain circumstances lay down their lives.
In truth, the second of these inventions is the more essential: the
first, the mode of life, has usually been there already, side by side,
however, with other modes of life, and still unconscious of the value
which it embodies. The import, the originality of the founder of a
religion, discloses itself usually in the fact that he _sees_ the mode
of life, _selects_ it, and _divines_ for the first time the purpose for
which it can be used, how it can be interpreted. Jesus (or Paul), for
example, found around him the life of the common people in the Roman
province, a modest, virtuous, oppressed life: he interpreted it, he put
the highest significance and value into it—and thereby the courage to
despise every other mode of life, the calm fanaticism of the Moravians,
the secret, subterranean self-confidence which goes on increasing, and
is at last ready "to overcome the world" (that is to say, Rome, and the
upper classes throughout the empire). Buddha, in like manner, found the
same type of man,—he found it in fact dispersed among all the classes
and social ranks of a people who were good and kind (and above all
inoffensive), owing to indolence, and who likewise owing to indolence,
lived abstemiously, almost without requirements. He understood that such
a type of man, with all its _vis inertiae_, had inevitably to glide into
a belief which promises _to avoid_ the return of earthly ill (that is to
say, labour and activity generally),—this "understanding" was his
genius. The founder of a religion possesses psychological infallibility
in the knowledge of a definite, average type of souls, who have not yet
_recognised_ themselves as akin. It is he who brings them together: the
founding of a religion, therefore, always becomes a long ceremony of
recognition.—


                                  354.

_The "Genius of the Species."_—The problem of consciousness (or more
correctly: of becoming conscious of oneself) meets us only when we begin
to perceive in what measure we could dispense with it: and it is at the
beginning of this perception that we are now placed by physiology and
zoology (which have thus required two centuries to overtake the hint
thrown out in advance by Leibnitz). For we could in fact think, feel,
will, and recollect, we could likewise "act" in every sense of the term,
and nevertheless nothing of it all would require to "come into
consciousness" (as one says metaphorically). The whole of life would be
possible without its seeing itself as it were in a mirror: as in fact
even at present the far greater part of our life still goes on without
this mirroring,—and even our thinking, feeling, volitional life as well,
however painful this statement may sound to an older philosopher. _What_
then is _the purpose_ of consciousness generally, when it is in the main
_superfluous_?—Now it seems to me, if you will hear my answer and its
perhaps extravagant supposition, that the subtlety and strength of
consciousness are always in proportion to the _capacity for
communication_ of a man (or an animal), the capacity for communication
in its turn being in proportion to the _necessity for communication_:
the latter not to be understood as if precisely the individual himself
who is master in the art of communicating and making known his
necessities would at the same time have to be most dependent upon others
for his necessities. It seems to me, however, to be so in relation to
whole races and successions of generations: where necessity and need
have long compelled men to communicate with their fellows and understand
one another rapidly and subtly, a surplus of the power and art of
communication is at last acquired, as if it were a fortune which had
gradually accumulated, and now waited for an heir to squander it
prodigally (the so-called artists are these heirs, in like manner the
orators, preachers, and authors: all of them men who come at the end of
a long succession, "late-born" always, in the best sense of the word,
and as has been said, _squanderers_ by their very nature). Granted that
this observation is correct, I may proceed further to the conjecture
that _consciousness generally has only been developed under the pressure
of the necessity for communication_,—that from the first it has been
necessary and useful only between man and man (especially between those
commanding and those obeying), and has only developed in proportion to
its utility. Consciousness is properly only a connecting network between
man and man,—it is only as such that it has had to develop; the recluse
and wild-beast species of men would not have needed it. The very fact
that our actions, thoughts, feelings and motions come within the range
of our consciousness—at least a part of them—is the result of a
terrible, prolonged "must" ruling man's destiny: as the most endangered
animal he _needed_ help and protection; he needed his fellows, he was
obliged to express his distress, he had to know how to make himself
understood—and for all this he needed "consciousness" first of all,
consequently, to "know" himself what he lacked, to "know" how he felt
and to "know" what he thought. For, to repeat it once more, man, like
every living creature, thinks unceasingly, but does not know it; the
thinking which is becoming _conscious of itself_ is only the smallest
part thereof, we may say, the most superficial part, the worst part:—for
this conscious thinking alone _is done in words, that is to say, in the
symbols for communication_, by means of which the origin of
consciousness is revealed. In short, the development of speech and the
development of consciousness (not of reason, but of reason becoming
self-conscious) go hand in hand. Let it be further accepted that it is
not only speech that serves as a bridge between man and man, but also
the looks, the pressure and the gestures; our becoming conscious of our
sense impressions, our power of being able to fix them, and as it were
to locate them outside of ourselves, has increased in proportion as the
necessity has increased for communicating them to _others_ by means of
signs. The sign-inventing man is at the same time the man who is always
more acutely self-conscious; it is only as a social animal that man has
learned to become conscious of himself,—he is doing so still, and doing
so more and more.—As is obvious, my idea is that consciousness does not
properly belong to the individual existence of man, but rather to the
social and gregarious nature in him; that, as follows therefrom, it is
only in relation to communal and gregarious utility that it is finely
developed; and that consequently each of us, in spite of the best
intention of _understanding_ himself as individually as possible, and of
"knowing himself," will always just call into consciousness the
non-individual in him, namely, his "averageness";—that our thought
itself is continuously as it were _outvoted_ by the character of
consciousness—by the imperious "genius of the species" therein—and is
translated back into the perspective of the herd. Fundamentally our
actions are in an incomparable manner altogether personal, unique and
absolutely individual—there is no doubt about it; but as soon as we
translate them into consciousness, they _do not appear so any
longer_.... This is the proper phenomenalism and perspectivism as I
understand it: the nature of _animal consciousness_ involves the notion
that the world of which we can become conscious is only a superficial
and symbolic world, a generalised and vulgarised world;—that everything
which becomes conscious _becomes_ just thereby shallow, meagre,
relatively stupid,—a generalisation, a symbol, a characteristic of the
herd; that with the evolving of consciousness there is always combined a
great, radical perversion, falsification, superficialisation, and
generalisation. Finally, the growing consciousness is a danger, and
whoever lives among the most conscious Europeans knows even that it is a
disease. As may be conjectured, it is not the antithesis of subject and
object with which I am here concerned: I leave that distinction to the
epistemologists who have remained entangled in the toils of grammar
(popular metaphysics). It is still less the antithesis of "thing in
itself" and phenomenon, for we do not "know" enough to be entitled even
_to make such a distinction_. Indeed, we have not any organ at all for
_knowing_ or for "truth"; we "know" (or believe, or fancy) just as much
as may be _of use_ in the interest of the human herd, the species; and
even what is here called "usefulness" is ultimately only a belief, a
fancy, and perhaps precisely the most fatal stupidity by which we shall
one day be ruined.


                                  355.

_The Origin of our Conception of "Knowledge."_—I take this explanation
from the street. I heard one of the people saying that "he knew me,"
so I asked myself: What do the people really understand by knowledge?
What do they want when they seek "knowledge"? Nothing more than that
what is strange is to be traced back to something _known_. And we
philosophers—have we really understood _anything more_ by knowledge?
The known, that is to say, what we are accustomed to, so that we no
longer marvel at it, the commonplace, any kind of rule to which we are
habituated, all and everything in which we know ourselves to be at
home:—what? is our need of knowing not just this need of the known?
the will to discover in everything strange, unusual, or questionable,
something which no longer disquiets us? Is it not possible that it
should be the _instinct of fear_ which enjoins upon us to know? Is it
not possible that the rejoicing of the discerner should be just his
rejoicing in the regained feeling of security?... One philosopher
imagined the world "known" when he had traced it back to the "idea":
alas, was it not because the idea was so known, so familiar to him?
because he had so much less fear of the "idea"—Oh, this moderation of
the discerners! let us but look at their principles, and at their
solutions of the riddle of the world in this connection! When they
again find aught in things, among things, or behind things, that is
unfortunately very well known to us, for example, our multiplication
table, or our logic, or our willing and desiring, how happy they
immediately are! For "what is known is understood": they are unanimous
as to that. Even the most circumspect among them think that the known
is at least _more easily understood_ than the strange; that for
example, it is methodically ordered to proceed outward from the "inner
world," from "the facts of consciousness," because it is the world
which is _better known to us_! Error of errors! The known is the
accustomed, and the accustomed is the most difficult of all to
"understand," that is to say, to perceive as a problem, to perceive as
strange, distant, "outside of us."... The great certainty of the
natural sciences in comparison with psychology and the criticism of
the elements of consciousness—_unnatural_ sciences as one might almost
be entitled to call them—rests precisely on the fact that they take
_what is strange_ as their object: while it is almost like something
contradictory and absurd _to wish_ to take generally what is not
strange as an object....


                                  356.

_In what Manner Europe will always become "more Artistic."_—Providing a
living still enforces even in the present day (in our transition period
when so much ceases to enforce) a definite _rôle_ on almost all male
Europeans, their so-called callings; some have the liberty, an apparent
liberty, to choose this rôle themselves, but most have it chosen for
them. The result is strange enough. Almost all Europeans confound
themselves with their rôle when they advance in age; they themselves are
the victims of their "good acting," they have forgotten how much chance,
whim and arbitrariness swayed them when their "calling" was decided—and
how many other rôles they _could_ perhaps have played: for it is now too
late! Looked at more closely, we see that their characters have actually
_evolved_ out of their rôle, nature out of art. There were ages in which
people believed with unshaken confidence, yea, with piety, in their
predestination for this very business, for that very mode of livelihood,
and would not at all acknowledge chance, or the fortuitous rôle, or
arbitrariness therein. Ranks, guilds, and hereditary trade privileges
succeeded, with the help of this belief, in rearing those extraordinary
broad towers of society which distinguished the Middle Ages, and of
which at all events one thing remains to their credit: capacity for
duration (and duration is a value of the first rank on earth!). But
there are ages entirely the reverse, the properly democratic ages, in
which people tend to become more and more oblivious of this conviction,
and a sort of impudent conviction and quite contrary mode of viewing
things comes to the front, the Athenian conviction which is first
observed in the epoch of Pericles, the American conviction of the
present day, which wants also more and more to become an European
conviction, whereby the individual is convinced that he can do almost
anything, that he _can play almost any rôle_, whereby everyone makes
experiments with himself, improvises, tries anew, tries with delight,
whereby all nature ceases and becomes art.... The Greeks, having adopted
this _rôle-creed_—an artist creed, if you will—underwent step by step,
as is well known, a curious transformation, not in every respect worthy
of imitation: _they became actual stage-players_; and as such they
enchanted, they conquered all the world, and at last even the conqueror
of the world, (for the _Graeculus histrio_ conquered Rome, and _not_
Greek culture, as the naïve are accustomed to say....) What I fear,
however, and what is at present obvious, if we desire to perceive it, is
that we modern men are quite on the same road already; and whenever man
begins to discover in what respect he plays a rôle, and to what extent
he _can_ be a stage-player, he _becomes_ a stage-player.... A new flora
and fauna of men thereupon springs up, which cannot grow in more stable,
more restricted eras—or is left "at the bottom," under the ban and
suspicion of infamy—, thereupon the most interesting and insane periods
of history always make their appearance, in which "stage-players," _all_
kinds of stage-players, are the real masters. Precisely thereby another
species of man is always more and more injured, and in the end made
impossible: above all the great "architects"; the building power is now
being paralysed; the courage that makes plans for the distant future is
disheartened; there begins to be a lack of organising geniuses. Who is
there who would now venture to undertake works for the completion of
which millenniums would have to be _reckoned_ upon? The fundamental
belief is dying out, on the basis of which one could calculate, promise
and anticipate the future in one's plan, and offer it as a sacrifice
thereto, that in fact man has only value and significance in so far as
he is _a stone in a great building_; for which purpose he has first of
all to be _solid_, he has to be a "stone."... Above all, not
a—stage-player! In short—alas! this fact will be hushed up for some
considerable time to come!—that which from henceforth will no longer be
built, and _can_ no longer be built, is—a society in the old sense of
the term; to build this structure everything is lacking, above all, the
material. _None of us are any longer material for a society_: that is a
truth which is seasonable at present! It seems to me a matter of
indifference that meanwhile the most short-sighted, perhaps the most
honest, and at any rate the noisiest species of men of the present day,
our friends the Socialists, believe, hope, dream, and above all scream
and scribble almost the opposite; in fact one already reads their
watchword of the future: "free society," on all tables and walls. Free
society? Indeed! Indeed! But you know, gentlemen, sure enough whereof
one builds it? Out of wooden iron! Out of the famous wooden iron! And
not even out of wooden....


                                  357.

_The old Problem: "What is German?"_—Let us count up apart the real
acquisitions of philosophical thought for which we have to thank German
intellects: are they in any allowable sense to be counted also to the
credit of the whole race? Can we say that they are at the same time the
work of the "German soul," or at least a symptom of it, in the sense in
which we are accustomed to think, for example, of Plato's ideomania, his
almost religious madness for form, as an event and an evidence of the
"Greek soul"? Or would the reverse perhaps be true? Were they so
individual, so much an exception to the spirit of the race, as was, for
example, Goethe's Paganism with a good conscience? Or as Bismarck's
Macchiavelism was with a good conscience, his so-called "practical
politics" in Germany? Did our philosophers perhaps even go counter to
the _need_ of the "German soul"? In short, were the German philosophers
really philosophical _Germans_?—I call to mind three cases. Firstly,
_Leibnitz's_ incomparable insight—with which he obtained the advantage
not only over Descartes, but over all who had philosophised up to his
time,—that consciousness is only an accident of mental representation,
and _not_ its necessary and essential attribute; that consequently what
we call consciousness only constitutes a state of our spiritual and
psychical world (perhaps a morbid state), and is _far from being that
world itself_:—is there anything German in this thought, the profundity
of which has not as yet been exhausted? Is there reason to think that a
person of the Latin race would not readily have stumbled on this
reversal of the apparent?—for it is a reversal. Let us call to mind
secondly, the immense note of interrogation which _Kant_ wrote after the
notion of causality. Not that he at all doubted its legitimacy, like
Hume: on the contrary, he began cautiously to define the domain within
which this notion has significance generally (we have not even yet got
finished with the marking out of these limits). Let us take thirdly, the
astonishing hit of _Hegel_, who stuck at no logical usage or
fastidiousness when he ventured to teach that the conceptions of kinds
develop _out of one another_: with which theory the thinkers in Europe
were prepared for the last great scientific movement, for Darwinism—for
without Hegel there would have been no Darwin. Is there anything German
in this Hegelian innovation which first introduced the decisive
conception of evolution into science? Yes, without doubt we feel that
there is something of ourselves "discovered" and divined in all three
cases; we are thankful for it, and at the same time surprised; each of
these three principles is a thoughtful piece of German self-confession,
self-understanding, and self-knowledge. We feel with Leibnitz that "our
inner world is far richer, ampler, and more concealed"; as Germans we
are doubtful, like Kant, about the ultimate validity of scientific
knowledge of nature, and in general about whatever _can_ be known
_causaliter_: the _knowable_ as such now appears to us of _less_ worth.
We Germans should still have been Hegelians, even though there had never
been a Hegel, inasmuch as we (in contradistinction to all Latin peoples)
instinctively attribute to becoming, to evolution, a profounder
significance and higher value than to that which "is"—we hardly believe
at all in the validity of the concept "being." This is all the more the
case because we are not inclined to concede to our human logic that it
is logic in itself, that it is the only kind of logic (we should rather
like, on the contrary, to convince ourselves that it is only a special
case, and perhaps one of the strangest and most stupid). A fourth
question would be whether also _Schopenhauer_ with his Pessimism, that
is to say the problem of _the worth of existence_, had to be a German. I
think not. The event _after_ which this problem was to be expected with
certainty, so that an astronomer of the soul could have calculated the
day and the hour for it—namely, the decay of the belief in the Christian
God, the victory of scientific atheism,—is a universal European event,
in which all races are to have their share of service and honour. On the
contrary, it has to be ascribed precisely to the Germans—those with whom
Schopenhauer was contemporary,—that they delayed this victory of atheism
longest, and endangered it most. Hegel especially was its retarder _par
excellence_, in virtue of the grandiose attempt which he made to
persuade us of the divinity of existence, with the help at the very last
of our sixth sense, "the historical sense." As philosopher, Schopenhauer
was the _first_ avowed and inflexible atheist we Germans have had: his
hostility to Hegel had here its background. The non-divinity of
existence was regarded by him as something understood, palpable,
indisputable; he always lost his philosophical composure and got into a
passion when he saw anyone hesitate and beat about the bush here. It is
at this point that his thorough uprightness of character comes in:
unconditional, honest atheism is precisely the _preliminary condition_
for his raising the problem, as a final and hardwon victory of the
European conscience, as the most prolific act of two thousand years'
discipline to truth, which in the end no longer tolerates the _lie_ of
the belief in a God.... One sees what has really gained the victory over
the Christian God—, Christian morality itself, the conception of
veracity, taken ever more strictly, the confessional subtlety of the
Christian conscience, translated and sublimated to the scientific
conscience, to intellectual purity at any price. To look upon nature as
if it were a proof of the goodness and care of a God; to interpret
history in honour of a divine reason, as a constant testimony to a moral
order in the world and a moral final purpose; to explain personal
experiences as pious men have long enough explained them, as if
everything were a dispensation or intimation of Providence, something
planned and sent on behalf of the salvation of the soul: all that is now
_past_, it has conscience _against_ it, it is regarded by all the more
acute consciences as disreputable and dishonourable, as mendaciousness,
femininism, weakness, and cowardice,—by virtue of this severity, if by
anything, we are _good_ Europeans, the heirs of Europe's longest and
bravest self-conquest. When we thus reject the Christian interpretation,
and condemn its "significance" as a forgery, we are immediately
confronted in a striking manner with the _Schopenhauerian_ question:
_Has existence then a significance at all?_—the question which will
require a couple of centuries even to be completely heard in all its
profundity. Schopenhauer's own answer to this question was—if I may be
forgiven for saying so—a premature, juvenile reply, a mere compromise, a
stoppage and sticking in the very same Christian-ascetic, moral
perspectives, _the belief in which had got notice to quit_ along with
the belief in God.... But he _raised_ the question—as a good European,
as we have said, and _not_ as a German.—Or did the Germans prove at
least by the way in which they seized on the Schopenhauerian question,
their inner connection and relationship to him, their preparation for
his problem, and their _need_ of it? That there has been thinking and
printing even in Germany since Schopenhauer's time on the problem raised
by him,—it was late enough!—does not at all suffice to enable us to
decide in favour of this closer relationship; one could, on the
contrary, lay great stress on the peculiar _awkwardness_ of this
post-Schopenhauerian Pessimism—Germans evidently do not behave
themselves there as in their element. I do not at all allude here to
Eduard von Hartmann; on the contrary, my old suspicion is not vanished
even at present that he is _too clever_ for us; I mean to say that as
arrant rogue from the very first, he did not perhaps make merry solely
over German Pessimism—and that in the end he might probably "bequeathe"
to them the truth as to how far a person could bamboozle the Germans
themselves in the age of bubble companies. But further, are we perhaps
to reckon to the honour of Germans, the old humming-top, Bahnsen, who
all his life spun about with the greatest pleasure around his
realistically dialectic misery and "personal ill-luck,"—was _that_
German? (In passing I recommend his writings for the purpose for which I
myself have used them, as anti-pessimistic fare, especially on account
of his _elegantia psychologica_, which, it seems to me, could alleviate
even the most constipated body and soul). Or would it be proper to count
such dilettanti and old maids as the mawkish apostle of virginity,
Mainländer, among the genuine Germans? After all he was probably a Jew
(all Jews become mawkish when they moralise). Neither Bahnsen, nor
Mainländer, nor even Eduard von Hartmann, give us a reliable grasp of
the question whether the pessimism of Schopenhauer (his frightened
glance into an undeified world, which has become stupid, blind, deranged
and problematic, his _honourable_ fright) was not only an exceptional
case among Germans, but a _German_ event: while everything else which
stands in the foreground, like our valiant politics and our joyful
Jingoism (which decidedly enough regards everything with reference to a
principle sufficiently unphilosophical: "_Deutschland, Deutschland, über
Alles_,"[12] consequently _sub specie speciei_, namely, the German
_species_), testifies very plainly to the contrary. No! The Germans of
to-day are _not_ pessimists! And Schopenhauer was a pessimist, I repeat
it once more, as a good European, and _not_ as a German.


                                  358.

_The Peasant Revolt of the Spirit._—We Europeans find ourselves in view
of an immense world of ruins, where some things still tower aloft, while
other objects stand mouldering and dismal, where most things however
already lie on the ground, picturesque enough—where were there ever
finer ruins?—overgrown with weeds, large and small. It is the Church
which is this city of decay: we see the religious organisation of
Christianity shaken to its deepest foundations. The belief in God is
overthrown, the belief in the Christian ascetic ideal is now fighting
its last fight. Such a long and solidly built work as Christianity—it
was the last construction of the Romans!—could not of course be
demolished all at once; every sort of earthquake had to shake it, every
sort of spirit which perforates, digs, gnaws and moulders had to assist
in the work of destruction. But that which is strangest is that those
who have exerted themselves most to retain and preserve Christianity,
have been precisely those who did most to destroy it,—the Germans. It
seems that the Germans do not understand the essence of a Church. Are
they not spiritual enough, or not distrustful enough to do so? In any
case the structure of the Church rests on a _southern_ freedom and
liberality of spirit, and similarly on a southern suspicion of nature,
man, and spirit,—it rests on a knowledge of man, an experience of man,
entirely different from what the north has had. The Lutheran Reformation
in all its length and breadth was the indignation of the simple against
something "complicated." To speak cautiously, it was a coarse, honest
misunderstanding, in which much is to be forgiven,—people did not
understand the mode of expression of a _victorious_ Church, and only saw
corruption; they misunderstood the noble scepticism, the _luxury_ of
scepticism and toleration which every victorious, self-confident power
permits.... One overlooks the fact readily enough at present that as
regards all cardinal questions concerning power Luther was badly
endowed; he was fatally short-sighted, superficial and imprudent—and
above all, as a man sprung from the people, he lacked all the hereditary
qualities of a ruling caste, and all the instincts for power; so that
his work, his intention to restore the work of the Romans, merely became
involuntarily and unconsciously the commencement of a work of
destruction. He unravelled, he tore asunder with honest rage, where the
old spider had woven longest and most carefully. He gave the sacred
books into the hands of everyone,—they thereby got at last into the
hands of the philologists, that is to say, the annihilators of every
belief based upon books. He demolished the conception of "the Church" in
that he repudiated the belief in the inspiration of the Councils: for
only under the supposition that the inspiring spirit which had founded
the Church still lives in it, still builds it, still goes on building
its house, does the conception of "the Church" retain its power. He gave
back to the priest sexual intercourse: but three-fourths of the
reverence of which the people (and above all the women of the people)
are capable, rests on the belief that an exceptional man in this respect
will also be an exceptional man in other respects. It is precisely here
that the popular belief in something superhuman in man, in a miracle, in
the saving God in man, has its most subtle and insidious advocate. After
Luther had given a wife to the priest, he had _to take from him_
auricular confession; that was psychologically right: but thereby he
practically did away with the Christian priest himself, whose
profoundest utility has ever consisted in his being a sacred ear, a
silent well, and a grave for secrets. "Every man his own priest"—behind
such formulæ and their bucolic slyness, there was concealed in Luther
the profoundest hatred of "higher men" and the rule of "higher men," as
the Church had conceived them. Luther disowned an ideal which he did not
know how to attain, while he seemed to combat and detest the
degeneration thereof. As a matter of fact, he, the impossible monk,
repudiated the _rule_ of the _homines religiosi_; he consequently
brought about precisely the same thing within the ecclesiastical social
order that he combated so impatiently in the civic order,—namely a
"peasant insurrection."—As to all that grew out of his Reformation
afterwards, good and bad, which can at present be almost counted up,—who
would be naïve enough to praise or blame Luther simply on account of
these results? He is innocent of all; he knew not what he did. The art
of making the European spirit shallower, especially in the north, or
more _good-natured_, if people would rather hear it designated by a
moral expression, undoubtedly took a clever step in advance in the
Lutheran Reformation; and similarly there grew out of it the mobility
and disquietude of the spirit, its thirst for independence, its belief
in the right to freedom, and its "naturalness." If people wish to
ascribe to the Reformation in the last instance the merit of having
prepared and favoured that which we at present honour as "modern
science," they must of course add that it is also accessory to bringing
about the degeneration of the modern scholar with his lack of reverence,
of shame and of profundity; and that it is also responsible for all
naïve candour and plain-dealing in matters of knowledge, in short for
the _plebeianism of the spirit_ which is peculiar to the last two
centuries, and from which even pessimism hitherto, has not in any way
delivered us. "Modern ideas" also belong to this peasant insurrection of
the north against the colder, more ambiguous, more suspicious spirit of
the south, which has built itself its greatest monument in the Christian
Church. Let us not forget in the end what a Church is, and especially,
in contrast to every "State": a Church is above all an authoritative
organisation which secures to the _most spiritual_ men the highest rank,
and _believes_ in the power of spirituality so far as to forbid all
grosser appliances of authority. Through this alone the Church is under
all circumstances a _nobler_ institution than the State.—


                                  359.

_Vengeance on Intellect and other Backgrounds of
Morality._—Morality—where do you think it has its most dangerous and
rancorous advocates?—There, for example, is an ill-constituted man, who
does not possess enough of intellect to be able to take pleasure in it,
and just enough of culture to be aware of the fact; bored, satiated, and
a self-despiser; besides being cheated unfortunately by some hereditary
property out of the last consolation, the "blessing of labour," the
self-forgetfulness in the "day's work"; one who is thoroughly ashamed of
his existence—perhaps also harbouring some vices,—and who on the other
hand (by means of books to which he has no right, or more intellectual
society than he can digest), cannot help vitiating himself more and
more, and making himself vain and irritable: such a thoroughly poisoned
man—for intellect becomes poison, culture becomes poison, possession
becomes poison, solitude becomes poison, to such ill-constituted
beings—gets at last into a habitual state of vengeance and inclination
to vengeance.... What do you think he finds necessary, absolutely
necessary in order to give himself the appearance in his own eyes of
superiority over more intellectual men, so as to give himself the
delight of _perfect revenge_, at least in imagination? It is always
_morality_ that he requires, one may wager on it; always the big moral
words, always the high-sounding words: justice, wisdom, holiness,
virtue; always the stoicism of gestures (how well stoicism hides what
one does _not_ possess!); always the mantle of wise silence, of
affability, of gentleness, and whatever else the idealist-mantle is
called in which the incurable self-despisers and also the incurably
conceited walk about. Let me not be misunderstood: out of such born
_enemies of the spirit_ there arises now and then that rare specimen of
humanity who is honoured by the people under the name of saint or sage:
it is out of such men that there arise those prodigies of morality that
make a noise, that make history,—St Augustine was one of these men. Fear
of the intellect, vengeance on the intellect—Oh! how often have these
powerfully impelling vices become the root of virtues! Yea, virtue
_itself_!—And asking the question among ourselves, even the
philosopher's pretension to wisdom, which has occasionally been made
here and there on the earth, the maddest and most immodest of all
pretensions,—has it not always been, in India as well as in Greece,
_above all a means of concealment_? Sometimes, perhaps, from the point
of view of education which hallows so many lies, it has been a tender
regard for growing and evolving persons, for disciples who have often to
be guarded against themselves by means of the belief in a person (by
means of an error). In most cases, however, it is a means of concealment
for a philosopher, behind which he seeks protection, owing to
exhaustion, age, chilliness, or hardening; as a feeling of the
approaching end, as the sagacity of the instinct which animals have
before their death,—they go apart, remain at rest, choose solitude,
creep into caves, become _wise_.... What? Wisdom a means of concealment
of the philosopher from—intellect?—


                                  360.

_Two Kinds of Causes which are Confounded._—It seems to me one of my
most essential steps and advances that I have learned to distinguish the
cause of the action generally from the cause of action in a particular
manner, say, in this direction, with this aim. The first kind of cause
is a quantum of stored-up force, which waits to be used in some manner,
for some purpose; the second kind of cause, on the contrary, is
something quite unimportant in comparison with the first, an
insignificant hazard for the most part, in conformity with which the
quantum of force in question "discharges" itself in some unique and
definite manner: the lucifer-match in relation to the barrel of
gunpowder. Among those insignificant hazards and lucifer-matches I count
all the so-called "aims," and similarly the still more so-called
"occupations" of people: they are relatively optional, arbitrary, and
almost indifferent in relation to the immense quantum of force which
presses on, as we have said, to be used up in any way whatever. One
generally looks at the matter in a different manner: one is accustomed
to see the _impelling_ force precisely in the aim (object, calling,
&c.), according to a primeval error,—but it is only the _directing_
force; the steersman and the steam have thereby been confounded. And yet
it is not even always the steersman, the directing force.... Is the
"aim," the "purpose," not often enough only an extenuating pretext, an
additional self-blinding of conceit, which does not wish it to be said
that the ship _follows_ the stream into which it has accidentally run?
That it "wishes" to go that way, _because_ it _must_ go that way? That
it has a direction, sure enough, but—not a steersman? We still require a
criticism of the conception of "purpose."


                                  361.

_The Problem of the Actor._—The problem of the actor has disquieted me
the longest; I was uncertain (and am sometimes so still) whether one
could not get at the dangerous conception of "artist"—a conception
hitherto treated with unpardonable leniency—from this point of view.
Falsity with a good conscience; delight in dissimulation breaking forth
as power, pushing aside, overflowing, and sometimes extinguishing the
so-called "character"; the inner longing to play a rôle, to assume a
mask, to put on an _appearance_; a surplus of capacity for adaptations
of every kind, which can no longer gratify themselves in the service of
the nearest and narrowest utility: all that perhaps does not pertain
_solely_ to the actor in himself?... Such an instinct would develop most
readily in families of the lower class of the people, who have had to
pass their lives in absolute dependence, under shifting pressure and
constraint, who (to accommodate themselves to their conditions, to adapt
themselves always to new circumstances) had again and again to pass
themselves off and represent themselves as different persons,—thus
having gradually qualified themselves to adjust the mantle to _every_
wind, thereby almost becoming the mantle itself, as masters of the
embodied and incarnated art of eternally playing the game of hide and
seek, which one calls _mimicry_ among the animals:—until at last this
ability, stored up from generation to generation, has become
domineering, irrational and intractable, till as instinct it begins to
command the other instincts, and begets the actor, the "artist" (the
buffoon, the pantaloon, the Jack-Pudding, the fool, and the clown in the
first place, also the classical type of servant, Gil Blas: for in such
types one has the precursors of the artist, and often enough even of the
"genius"). Also under higher social conditions there grows under similar
pressure a similar species of men. Only the histrionic instinct is there
for the most part held strictly in check by another instinct, for
example, among "diplomatists";—for the rest, I should think that it
would always be open to a good diplomatist to become a good actor on the
stage, provided his dignity "allowed" it. As regards the _Jews_,
however, the adaptable people _par excellence_, we should, in conformity
to this line of thought, expect to see among them a world-historical
institution from the very beginning, for the rearing of actors, a
genuine breeding-place for actors; and in fact the question is very
pertinent just now: what good actor at present is _not_—a Jew? The Jew
also, as a born literary man, as the actual ruler of the European press,
exercises this power on the basis of his histrionic capacity: for the
literary man is essentially an actor,—he plays the part of "expert," of
"specialist."—Finally _women_. If we consider the whole history of
women, are they not _obliged_ first of all, and above all to be
actresses? If we listen to doctors who have hypnotised women, or,
finally, if we love them—and let ourselves be "hypnotised" by them,—what
is always divulged thereby? That they "give themselves airs," even when
they—"give themselves."... Woman is so artistic....


                                  362.

_My Belief in the Virilising of Europe._—We owe it to Napoleon (and not
at all to the French Revolution, which had in view the "fraternity" of
the nations, and the florid interchange of good graces among people
generally) that several warlike centuries, which have not had their like
in past history, may now follow one another—in short, that we have
entered upon _the classical age of war_, war at the same time scientific
and popular, on the grandest scale (as regards means, talents and
discipline), to which all coming millenniums will look back with envy
and awe as a work of perfection:—for the national movement out of which
this martial glory springs, is only the counter-_choc_ against Napoleon,
and would not have existed without him. To him, consequently, one will
one day be able to attribute the fact that _man_ in Europe has again got
the upper hand of the merchant and the Philistine; perhaps even of
"woman" also, who has become pampered owing to Christianity and the
extravagant spirit of the eighteenth century, and still more owing to
"modern ideas." Napoleon, who saw in modern ideas, and accordingly in
civilisation, something like a personal enemy, has by this hostility
proved himself one of the greatest continuators of the Renaissance: he
has brought to the surface a whole block of the ancient character, the
decisive block perhaps, the block of granite. And who knows but that
this block of ancient character will in the end get the upper hand of
the national movement, and will have to make itself in a _positive_
sense the heir and continuator of Napoleon:—who, as one knows, wanted
_one_ Europe, which was to be _mistress of the world_.—


                                  363.

_How each Sex has its Prejudice about Love._—Notwithstanding all the
concessions which I am inclined to make to the monogamic prejudice, I
will never admit that we should speak of _equal_ rights in the love of
man and woman: there are no such equal rights. The reason is that man
and woman understand something different by the term love,—and it
belongs to the conditions of love in both sexes that the one sex does
_not_ presuppose the same feeling, the same conception of "love," in the
other sex. What woman understands by love is clear enough: complete
surrender (not merely devotion) of soul and body, without any motive,
without any reservation, rather with shame and terror at the thought of
a devotion restricted by clauses or associated with conditions. In this
absence of conditions her love is precisely a _faith_: woman has no
other.—Man, when he loves a woman, _wants_ precisely this love from her;
he is consequently, as regards himself, furthest removed from the
prerequisites of feminine love; granted, however, that there should also
be men to whom on their side the demand for complete devotion is not
unfamiliar,—well, they are really—not men. A man who loves like a woman
becomes thereby a slave; a woman, however, who loves like a woman
becomes thereby a _more perfect_ woman.... The passion of woman in its
unconditional renunciation of its own rights presupposes in fact that
there does _not_ exist on the other side an equal _pathos_, an equal
desire for renunciation: for if both renounced themselves out of love,
there would result—well, I don't know what, perhaps a _horror vacui_?
Woman wants to be taken and accepted as a possession, she wishes to be
merged in the conceptions of "possession" and "possessed"; consequently
she wants one who _takes_, who does not offer and give himself away, but
who reversely is rather to be made richer in "himself"—by the increase
of power, happiness and faith which the woman herself gives to him.
Woman gives herself, man takes her.—I do not think one will get over
this natural contrast by any social contract, or with the very best will
to do justice, however desirable it may be to avoid bringing the severe,
frightful, enigmatical, and unmoral elements of this antagonism
constantly before our eyes. For love, regarded as complete, great, and
full, is nature, and as nature, is to all eternity something
"unmoral."—_Fidelity_ is accordingly included in woman's love, it
follows from the definition thereof; with man fidelity _may_ readily
result in consequence of his love, perhaps as gratitude or idiosyncrasy
of taste, and so-called elective affinity, but it does not belong to the
_essence_ of his love—and indeed so little, that one might almost be
entitled to speak of a natural opposition between love and fidelity in
man, whose love is just a desire to possess, and _not_ a renunciation
and giving away; the desire to possess, however, comes to an end every
time with the possession.... As a matter of fact it is the more subtle
and jealous thirst for possession in the man (who is rarely and tardily
convinced of having this "possession"), which makes his love continue;
in that case it is even possible that the love may increase after the
surrender,—he does not readily own that a woman has nothing more to
"surrender" to him.—


                                  364.

_The Anchorite Speaks._—The art of associating with men rests
essentially on one's skilfulness (which presupposes long exercise) in
accepting a repast, in taking a repast in the cuisine of which one has
no confidence. Provided one comes to the table with the hunger of a wolf
everything is easy ("the worst society gives thee _experience_"—as
Mephistopheles says); but one has not got this wolf's-hunger when one
needs it! Alas! how difficult are our fellow-men to digest! First
principle: to stake one's courage as in a misfortune, to seize boldly,
to admire oneself at the same time, to take one's repugnance between
one's teeth, to cram down one's disgust. Second principle: to "improve"
one's fellow-man, by praise for example, so that he may begin to sweat
out his self-complacency; or to seize a tuft of his good or
"interesting" qualities, and pull at it till one gets his whole virtue
out, and can put him under the folds of it. Third principle:
self-hypnotism. To fix one's eye on the object of one's intercourse, as
on a glass knob, until, ceasing to feel pleasure or pain thereat, one
falls asleep unobserved, becomes rigid, and acquires a fixed pose: a
household recipe used in married life and in friendship, well tested and
prized as indispensable, but not yet scientifically formulated. Its
proper name is—patience.—


                                  365.

_The Anchorite Speaks once more._—We also have intercourse with "men,"
we also modestly put on the clothes in which people know us (_as such_),
respect us and seek us; and we thereby mingle in society, that is to
say, among the disguised who do not wish to be so called; we also do
like all prudent masqueraders, and courteously dismiss all curiosity
which has not reference merely to our "clothes." There are however other
modes and artifices for "going about" among men and associating with
them: for example, as a ghost,—which is very advisable when one wants to
scare them, and get rid of them easily. An example: a person grasps at
us, and is unable to seize us. That frightens him. Or we enter by a
closed door. Or when the lights are extinguished. Or after we are dead.
The latter is the artifice of _posthumous_ men _par excellence_.
("What?" said such a one once impatiently, "do you think we should
delight in enduring this strangeness, coldness, death-stillness about
us, all this subterranean, hidden, dim, undiscovered solitude, which is
called life with us, and might just as well be called death, if we were
not conscious of what _will arise_ out of us,—and that only after our
death shall we attain to _our_ life and become living, ah! very living!
we posthumous men!"—)


                                  366.

_At the Sight of a Learned Book._—We do not belong to those who only get
their thoughts from books, or at the prompting of books,—it is our
custom to think in the open air, walking, leaping, climbing, or dancing
on lonesome mountains by preference, or close to the sea, where even the
paths become thoughtful. Our first question concerning the value of a
book, a man, or a piece of music is: Can it walk? or still better: Can
it dance?... We seldom read; we do not read the worse for that—oh, how
quickly do we divine how a person has arrived at his thoughts:—whether
sitting before an ink-bottle with compressed belly and head bent over
the paper: oh, how quickly we are then done with his book! The
constipated bowels betray themselves, one may wager on it, just as the
atmosphere of the room, the ceiling of the room, the smallness of the
room, betray themselves.—These were my feelings as I was closing a
straightforward, learned book, thankful, very thankful, but also
relieved.... In the book of a learned man there is almost always
something oppressive and oppressed: the "specialist" comes to light
somewhere, his ardour, his seriousness, his wrath, his over-estimation
of the nook in which he sits and spins, his hump—every specialist has
his hump. A learned book also always mirrors a distorted soul: every
trade distorts. Look at our friends again with whom we have spent our
youth, after they have taken possession of their science: alas! how the
reverse has always taken place! Alas! how they themselves are now for
ever occupied and possessed by their science! Grown into their nook,
crumpled into unrecognisability, constrained, deprived of their
equilibrium, emaciated and angular everywhere, perfectly round only in
one place,—we are moved and silent when we find them so. Every
handicraft, granting even that it has a golden floor,[13] has also a
leaden ceiling above it, which presses and presses on the soul, till it
is pressed into a strange and distorted shape. There is nothing to alter
here. We need not think that it is at all possible to obviate this
disfigurement by any educational artifice whatever. Every kind of
_perfection_ is purchased at a high price on earth, where everything is
perhaps purchased too dear; one is an expert in one's department at the
price of being also a victim of one's department. But you want to have
it otherwise—"more reasonable," above all more convenient—is it not so,
my dear contemporaries? Very well! But then you will also immediately
get something different: that is to say, instead of the craftsman and
expert, the literary man, the versatile, "many-sided" littérateur, who
to be sure lacks the hump—not taking account of the hump or bow which he
makes before you as the shopman of the intellect and the "porter" of
culture—, the littérateur, who _is_ really nothing, but "represents"
almost everything: he plays and "represents" the expert, he also takes
it upon himself in all modesty _to see that he is_ paid, honoured and
celebrated in this position.—No, my learned friends! I bless you even on
account of your humps! And also because like me you despise the
littérateurs and parasites of culture! And because you do not know how
to make merchandise of your intellect! And have so many opinions which
cannot be expressed in money value! And because you do not represent
anything which you _are_ not! Because your sole desire is to become
masters of your craft; because you reverence every kind of mastership
and ability, and repudiate with the most relentless scorn everything of
a make-believe, half-genuine, dressed-up, virtuoso, demagogic,
histrionic nature in _litteris et artibus_—all that which does not
convince you by its absolute _genuineness_ of discipline and preparatory
training, or cannot stand your test! (Even genius does not help a person
to get over such a defect, however well it may be able to deceive with
regard to it: one understands this if one has once looked closely at our
most gifted painters and musicians,—who almost without exception, can
artificially and supplementarily appropriate to themselves (by means of
artful inventions of style, make-shifts, and even principles), the
_appearance_ of that genuineness, that solidity of training and culture;
to be sure, without thereby deceiving themselves, without thereby
imposing perpetual silence on their bad consciences. For you know well
enough that all great modern artists suffer from bad consciences?...)


                                  367.

_How one has to Distinguish first of all in Works of Art._—Everything
that is thought, versified, painted and composed, yea, even built and
moulded, belongs either to monologic art, or to art before witnesses.
Under the latter there is also to be included the apparently monologic
art which involves the belief in God, the whole lyric of prayer; because
for a pious man there is no solitude,—we, the godless, have been the
first to devise this invention. I know of no profounder distinction in
all the perspective of the artist than this: Whether he looks at his
growing work of art (at "himself—") with the eye of the witness; or
whether he "has forgotten the world," as is the essential thing in all
monologic art,——it rests _on forgetting_, it is the music of forgetting.


                                  368.

_The Cynic Speaks._—My objections to Wagner's music are physiological
objections. Why should I therefore begin by disguising them under
æsthetic formulæ? My "point" is that I can no longer breathe freely when
this music begins to operate on me; my _foot_ immediately becomes
indignant at it and rebels: for what it needs is time, dance and march;
it demands first of all from music the ecstasies which are in _good_
walking, striding, leaping and dancing. But do not my stomach, my heart,
my blood and my bowels also protest? Do I not become hoarse unawares
under its influence? And then I ask myself what it is really that my
body _wants_ from music generally. I believe it wants to have _relief_:
so that all animal functions should be accelerated by means of light,
bold, unfettered, self-assured rhythms; so that brazen, leaden life
should be gilded by means of golden, good, tender harmonies. My
melancholy would fain rest its head in the hiding-places and abysses of
_perfection_: for this reason I need music. What do I care for the
drama! What do I care for the spasms of its moral ecstasies, in which
the "people" have their satisfaction! What do I care for the whole
pantomimic hocus-pocus of the actor!... It will now be divined that I am
essentially anti-theatrical at heart,—but Wagner on the contrary, was
essentially a man of the stage and an actor, the most enthusiastic
mummer-worshipper that has ever existed, even among musicians!... And
let it be said in passing that if Wagner's theory was that "drama is the
object, and music is only the means to it,"—his _practice_ on the
contrary from beginning to end has been to the effect that "attitude is
the object, drama and even music can never be anything else but means to
_that_." Music as a means of elucidating, strengthening and intensifying
dramatic poses and the actor's appeal to the senses, and Wagnerian drama
only an opportunity for a number of dramatic attitudes! Wagner
possessed, along with all other instincts, the dictatorial instinct of a
great actor in all and everything, and as has been said, also as a
musician.—I once made this clear with some trouble to a thorough-going
Wagnerian, and I had reasons for adding:—"Do be a little more honest
with yourself: we are not now in the theatre. In the theatre we are only
honest in the mass; as individuals we lie, we belie even ourselves. We
leave ourselves at home when we go to the theatre; we there renounce the
right to our own tongue and choice, to our taste, and even to our
courage as we possess it and practise it within our own four walls in
relation to God and man. No one takes his finest taste in art into the
theatre with him, not even the artist who works for the theatre: there
one is people, public, herd, woman, Pharisee, voting animal, democrat,
neighbour, and fellow-creature; there even the most personal conscience
succumbs to the levelling charm of the 'great multitude'; there
stupidity operates as wantonness and contagion; there the neighbour
rules, there one _becomes_ a neighbour...." (I have forgotten to mention
what my enlightened Wagnerian answered to my physiological objections:
"So the fact is that you are really not healthy enough for our music?"—)


                                  369.

_Juxtapositions in us._—Must we not acknowledge to ourselves, we
artists, that there is a strange discrepancy in us; that on the one hand
our taste, and on the other hand our creative power, keep apart in an
extraordinary manner, continue apart, and have a separate growth;—I mean
to say that they have entirely different gradations and _tempi_ of age,
youth, maturity, mellowness and rottenness? So that, for example, a
musician could all his life create things which _contradict_ all that
his ear and heart, spoilt as they are for listening, prize, relish and
prefer:—he would not even require to be aware of the contradiction! As
an almost painfully regular experience shows, a person's taste can
easily outgrow the taste of his power, even without the latter being
thereby paralysed or checked in its productivity. The reverse, however,
can also to some extent take place,—and it is to this especially that I
should like to direct the attention of artists. A constant producer, a
man who is a "mother" in the grand sense of the term, one who no longer
knows or hears of anything except pregnancies and child-beds of his
spirit, who has no time at all to reflect and make comparisons with
regard to himself and his work, who is also no longer inclined to
exercise his taste, but simply forgets it, letting it take its chance of
standing, lying or falling,—perhaps such a man at last produces works
_on which he is then not at all fit to pass a judgment_: so that he
speaks and thinks foolishly about them and about himself. This seems to
me almost the normal condition with fruitful artists,—nobody knows a
child worse than its parents—and the rule applies even (to take an
immense example) to the entire Greek world of poetry and art, which was
never "conscious" of what it had done....


                                  370.

_What is Romanticism?_—It will be remembered perhaps, at least among my
friends, that at first I assailed the modern world with some gross
errors and exaggerations, but at any rate with _hope_ in my heart. I
recognised—who knows from what personal experiences?—the philosophical
pessimism of the nineteenth century as the symptom of a higher power of
thought, a more daring courage and a more triumphant _plenitude_ of life
than had been characteristic of the eighteenth century, the age of Hume,
Kant, Condillac, and the sensualists: so that the tragic view of things
seemed to me the peculiar _luxury_ of our culture, its most precious,
noble, and dangerous mode of prodigality; but nevertheless, in view of
its overflowing wealth, a _justifiable_ luxury. In the same way I
interpreted for myself German music as the expression of a Dionysian
power in the German soul: I thought I heard in it the earthquake by
means of which a primeval force that had been imprisoned for ages was
finally finding vent—indifferent as to whether all that usually calls
itself culture was thereby made to totter. It is obvious that I then
misunderstood what constitutes the veritable character both of
philosophical pessimism and of German music,—namely, their
_Romanticism_. What is Romanticism? Every art and every philosophy may
be regarded as a healing and helping appliance in the service of
growing, struggling life: they always presuppose suffering and
sufferers. But there are two kinds of sufferers: on the one hand those
that suffer from _overflowing vitality_, who need Dionysian art, and
require a tragic view and insight into life; and on the other hand those
who suffer from _reduced vitality_, who seek repose, quietness, calm
seas, and deliverance from themselves through art or knowledge, or else
intoxication, spasm, bewilderment and madness. All Romanticism in art
and knowledge responds to the twofold craving of the _latter_; to them
Schopenhauer as well as Wagner responded (and responds),—to name those
most celebrated and decided romanticists who were then _misunderstood_
by me (_not_ however to their disadvantage, as may be reasonably
conceded to me). The being richest in overflowing vitality, the
Dionysian God and man, may not only allow himself the spectacle of the
horrible and questionable, but even the fearful deed itself, and all the
luxury of destruction, disorganisation and negation. With him evil,
senselessness and ugliness seem as it were licensed, in consequence of
the overflowing plenitude of procreative, fructifying power, which can
convert every desert into a luxuriant orchard. Conversely, the greatest
sufferer, the man poorest in vitality, would have most need of mildness,
peace and kindliness in thought and action: he would need, if possible,
a God who is specially the God of the sick, a "Saviour"; similarly he
would have need of logic, the abstract intelligibility of existence—for
logic soothes and gives confidence;—in short he would need a certain
warm, fear-dispelling narrowness and imprisonment within optimistic
horizons. In this manner I gradually began to understand Epicurus, the
opposite of a Dionysian pessimist;—in a similar manner also the
"Christian," who in fact is only a type of Epicurean, and like him
essentially a romanticist:—and my vision has always become keener in
tracing that most difficult and insidious of all forms of _retrospective
inference_, which most mistakes have been made—the inference from the
work to its author, from the deed to its doer, from the ideal to him who
_needs_ it, from every mode of thinking and valuing to the imperative
_want_ behind it.—In regard to all æsthetic values I now avail myself of
this radical distinction: I ask in every single case, "Has hunger or
superfluity become creative here?" At the outset another distinction
might seem to recommend itself more—it is far more conspicuous,—namely,
to have in view whether the desire for rigidity, for perpetuation, for
_being_ is the cause of the creating, or the desire for destruction, for
change, for the new, for the future—for _becoming_. But when looked at
more carefully, both these kinds of desire prove themselves ambiguous,
and are explicable precisely according to the before-mentioned and, as
it seems to me, rightly preferred scheme. The desire for _destruction_,
change and becoming, may be the expression of overflowing power,
pregnant with futurity (my _terminus_ for this is of course the word
"Dionysian"); but it may also be the hatred of the ill-constituted,
destitute and unfortunate, which destroys, and _must_ destroy, because
the enduring, yea, all that endures, in fact all being, excites and
provokes it. To understand this emotion we have but to look closely at
our anarchists. The will to _perpetuation_ requires equally a double
interpretation. It may on the one hand proceed from gratitude and
love:—art of this origin will always be an art of apotheosis, perhaps
dithyrambic, as with Rubens, mocking divinely, as with Hafiz, or clear
and kind-hearted as with Goethe, and spreading a Homeric brightness and
glory over everything (in this case I speak of _Apollonian_ art). It may
also, however, be the tyrannical will of a sorely-suffering, struggling
or tortured being, who would like to stamp his most personal, individual
and narrow characteristics, the very idiosyncrasy of his suffering, as
an obligatory law and constraint on others; who, as it were, takes
revenge on all things, in that he imprints, enforces and brands _his_
image, the image of _his_ torture, upon them. The latter is _romantic
pessimism_ in its most extreme form, whether it be as Schopenhauerian
will-philosophy, or as Wagnerian music:—romantic pessimism, the last
_great_ event in the destiny of our civilisation. (That there _may be_
quite a different kind of pessimism, a classical pessimism—this
presentiment and vision belongs to me, as something inseparable from me,
as my _proprium_ and _ipsissimum_; only that the word "classical" is
repugnant to my ears, it has become far too worn; too indefinite and
indistinguishable. I call that pessimism of the future,—for it is
coming! I see it coming!—_Dionysian_ pessimism.)


                                  371.

_We Unintelligible Ones._—Have we ever complained among ourselves of
being misunderstood, misjudged, and confounded with others; of being
calumniated, misheard, and not heard? That is just our lot—alas, for a
long time yet! say, to be modest, until 1901—, it is also our
distinction; we should not have sufficient respect for ourselves if we
wished it otherwise. People confound us with others—the reason of it is
that we ourselves grow, we change continually, we cast off old bark, we
still slough every spring, we always become younger, higher, stronger,
as men of the future, we thrust our roots always more powerfully into
the deep—into evil—, while at the same time we embrace the heavens ever
more lovingly, more extensively, and suck in their light ever more
eagerly with all our branches and leaves. We grow like trees—that is
difficult to understand, like all life!—not in one place, but
everywhere, not in one direction only, but upwards and outwards, as well
as inwards and downwards. At the same time our force shoots forth in
stem, branches, and roots; we are really no longer free to do anything
separately, or to _be_ anything separately.... Such is our lot, as we
have said: we grow in _height_; and even should it be our calamity—for
we dwell ever closer to the lightning!—well, we honour it none the less
on that account; it is that which we do not wish to share with others,
which we do not wish to bestow upon others, the fate of all elevation,
_our_ fate....


                                  372.

_Why we are not Idealists._—Formerly philosophers were afraid of the
senses: have we, perhaps, been far too forgetful of this fear? We are at
present all of us sensualists, we representatives of the present and of
the future in philosophy,—_not_ according to theory, however, but in
_praxis_, in practice.... Those former philosophers, on the contrary,
thought that the senses lured them out of _their_ world, the cold realm
of "ideas," to a dangerous southern island, where they were afraid that
their philosopher-virtues would melt away like snow in the sun. "Wax in
the ears," was then almost a condition of philosophising; a genuine
philosopher no longer listened to life, in so far as life is music, he
_denied_ the music of life—it is an old philosophical superstition that
all music is Sirens' music.—Now we should be inclined at the present day
to judge precisely in the opposite manner (which in itself might be just
as false), and to regard _ideas_, with their cold, anæmic appearance,
and not even in spite of this appearance, as worse seducers than the
senses. They have always lived on the "blood" of the philosopher, they
always consumed his senses, and indeed, if you will believe me, his
"heart" as well. Those old philosophers were heartless: philosophising
was always a species of vampirism. At the sight of such figures even as
Spinoza, do you not feel a profoundly enigmatical and disquieting sort
of impression? Do you not see the drama which is here performed, the
constantly _increasing pallor_—, the spiritualisation always more
ideally displayed? Do you not imagine some long-concealed blood-sucker
in the background, which makes its beginning with the senses, and in the
end retains or leaves behind nothing but bones and their rattling?—I
mean categories, formulæ, and _words_ (for you will pardon me in saying
that what _remains_ of Spinoza, _amor intellectualis dei_, is rattling
and nothing more! What is _amor_, what is _deus_, when they have lost
every drop of blood?...) _In summa_: all philosophical idealism has
hitherto been something like a disease, where it has not been, as in the
case of Plato, the prudence of superabundant and dangerous
healthfulness, the fear of _overpowerful_ senses, and the wisdom of a
wise Socratic.—Perhaps, is it the case that we moderns are merely not
sufficiently sound _to require_ Plato's idealism? And we do not fear the
senses because——.


                                  373.

_"Science" as Prejudice._—It follows from the laws of class distinction
that the learned, in so far as they belong to the intellectual
middle-class, are debarred from getting even a sight of the really
_great_ problems and notes of interrogation. Besides, their courage, and
similarly their outlook, does not reach so far,—and above all, their
need, which makes them investigators, their innate anticipation and
desire that things should be constituted _in such and such a way_, their
fears and hopes are too soon quieted and set at rest. For example, that
which makes the pedantic Englishman, Herbert Spencer, so enthusiastic in
his way, and impels him to draw a line of hope, a horizon of
desirability, the final reconciliation of "egoism and altruism" of which
he dreams,—that almost causes nausea to people like us:—a humanity with
such Spencerian perspectives as ultimate perspectives would seem to us
deserving of contempt, of extermination! But the _fact_ that something
has to be taken by him as his highest hope, which is regarded, and may
well be regarded, by others merely as a distasteful possibility, is a
note of interrogation which Spencer could not have foreseen.... It is
just the same with the belief with which at present so many
materialistic natural-scientists are content, the belief in a world
which is supposed to have its equivalent and measure in human thinking
and human valuations, a "world of truth" at which we might be able
ultimately to arrive with the help of our insignificant, four-cornered
human reason! What? do we actually wish to have existence debased in
that fashion to a ready-reckoner exercise and calculation for
stay-at-home mathematicians? We should not, above all, seek to divest
existence of its _ambiguous_ character: _good_ taste forbids it,
gentlemen, the taste of reverence for everything that goes beyond your
horizon! That a world-interpretation is alone right by which _you_
maintain your position, by which investigation and work can go on
scientifically in _your_ sense (you really mean _mechanically_?), an
interpretation which acknowledges numbering, calculating, weighing,
seeing and handling, and nothing more—such an idea is a piece of
grossness and naïvety, provided it is not lunacy and idiocy. Would the
reverse not be quite probable, that the most superficial and external
characters of existence—its most apparent quality, its outside, its
embodiment—should let themselves be apprehended first? perhaps alone
allow themselves to be apprehended? A "scientific" interpretation of the
world as you understand it might consequently still be one of the
_stupidest_ that is to say, the most destitute of significance, of all
possible world-interpretations:—I say this in confidence to my friends
the Mechanicians, who to-day like to hobnob with philosophers, and
absolutely believe that mechanics is the teaching of the first and last
laws upon which, as upon a ground-floor, all existence must be built.
But an essentially mechanical world would be an essentially
_meaningless_ world! Supposing we valued the _worth_ of a music with
reference to how much it could be counted, calculated, or formulated—how
absurd such a "scientific" estimate of music would be! What would one
have apprehended, understood, or discerned in it! Nothing, absolutely
nothing of what is really "music" in it!...


                                  374.

_Our new "Infinite."_—How far the perspective character of existence
extends, or whether it have any other character at all, whether an
existence without explanation, without "sense" does not just become
"nonsense," whether, on the other hand, all existence is not essentially
an _explaining_ existence—these questions, as is right and proper,
cannot be determined even by the most diligent and severely
conscientious analysis and self-examination of the intellect, because in
this analysis the human intellect cannot avoid seeing itself in its
perspective forms, and _only_ in them. We cannot see round our corner:
it is hopeless curiosity to want to know what other modes of intellect
and perspective there _might_ be: for example, whether any kind of being
could perceive time backwards, or alternately forwards and backwards (by
which another direction of life and another conception of cause and
effect would be given). But I think that we are to-day at least far from
the ludicrous immodesty of decreeing from our nook that there _can_ only
be legitimate perspectives from that nook. The world, on the contrary,
has once more become "infinite" to us: in so far we cannot dismiss the
possibility that it _contains infinite interpretations_. Once more the
great horror seizes us—but who would desire forthwith to deify once more
_this_ monster of an unknown world in the old fashion? And perhaps
worship _the_ unknown thing as _the_ "unknown person" in future? Ah!
there are too many _ungodly_ possibilities of interpretation comprised
in this unknown, too much devilment, stupidity and folly of
interpretation.—also our own human, all too human interpretation itself,
which we know....


                                  375.

_Why we Seem to be Epicureans._—We are cautious, we modern men, with
regard to final convictions, our distrust lies in wait for the
enchantments and tricks of conscience involved in every strong belief,
in every absolute Yea and Nay: how is this explained? Perhaps one may
see in it a good deal of the caution of the "burnt child," of the
disillusioned idealist; but one may also see in it another and better
element, the joyful curiosity of a former lingerer in the corner, who
has been brought to despair by his nook, and now luxuriates and revels
in its antithesis, in the unbounded, in the "open air in itself." Thus
there is developed an almost Epicurean inclination for knowledge, which
does not readily lose sight of the questionable character of things;
likewise also a repugnance to pompous moral phrases and attitudes, a
taste that repudiates all coarse, square contrasts, and is proudly
conscious of its habitual reserve. For _this too_ constitutes our pride,
this easy tightening of the reins in our headlong impulse after
certainty, this self-control of the rider in his most furious riding:
for now, as of old we have mad, fiery steeds under us, and if we delay,
it is certainly least of all the danger which causes us to delay....


                                  376.

_Our Slow Periods._—It is thus that artists feel, and all men of
"works," the maternal species of men: they always believe at every
chapter of their life—a work always makes a chapter—that they have
already reached the goal itself; they would always patiently accept
death with the feeling: "we are ripe for it." This is not the expression
of exhaustion,—but rather that of a certain autumnal sunniness and
mildness, which the work itself, the maturing of the work, always leaves
behind in its originator. Then the _tempo_ of life slows down—turns
thick and flows with honey—into long pauses, into the belief in _the_
long pause....


                                  377.

_We Homeless Ones._—Among the Europeans of to-day there are not lacking
those who may call themselves homeless ones in a way which is at once a
distinction and an honour; it is by them that my secret wisdom and _gaya
scienza_ is expressly to be laid to heart. For their lot is hard, their
hope uncertain; it is a clever feat to devise consolation for them. But
what good does it do! We children of the future, how _could_ we be at
home in the present? We are unfavourable to all ideals which could make
us feel at home in this frail, broken-down, transition period; and as
regards the "realities" thereof, we do not believe in their _endurance_.
The ice which still carries us has become very thin: the thawing wind
blows; we ourselves, the homeless ones, are an influence that breaks the
ice, and the other all too thin "realities."... We "preserve" nothing,
nor would we return to any past age; we are not at all "liberal," we do
not labour for "progress," we do not need first to stop our ears to the
song of the market-place and the sirens of the future—their song of
"equal rights," "free society," "no longer either lords or slaves," does
not allure us! We do not by any means think it desirable that the
kingdom of righteousness and peace should be established on earth
(because under any circumstances it would be the kingdom of the
profoundest mediocrity and Chinaism); we rejoice in all men, who, like
ourselves, love danger, war and adventure, who do not make compromises,
nor let themselves be captured, conciliated and stunted; we count
ourselves among the conquerors; we ponder over the need of a new order
of things, even of a new slavery—for every strengthening and elevation
of the type "man" also involves a new form of slavery. Is it not obvious
that with all this we must feel ill at ease in an age which claims the
honour of being the most humane, gentle and just that the sun has ever
seen? What a pity that at the mere mention of these fine words, the
thoughts at the back of our minds are all the more unpleasant, that we
see therein only the expression—or the masquerade—of profound weakening,
exhaustion, age, and declining power! What can it matter to us with what
kind of tinsel an invalid decks out his weakness? He may parade it as
his _virtue_; there is no doubt whatever that weakness makes people
gentle, alas, so gentle, so just, so inoffensive, so "humane"!—The
"religion of pity," to which people would like to persuade us—yes, we
know sufficiently well the hysterical little men and women who need this
religion at present as a cloak and adornment! We are no humanitarians;
we should not dare to speak of our "love of mankind"; for that, a person
of our stamp is not enough of an actor! Or not sufficiently
Saint-Simonist, not sufficiently French. A person must have been
affected with a _Gallic_ excess of erotic susceptibility and amorous
impatience even to approach mankind honourably with his lewdness....
Mankind! Was there ever a more hideous old woman among all old women
(unless perhaps it were "the Truth": a question for philosophers)? No,
we do not love Mankind! On the other hand, however, we are not nearly
"German" enough (in the sense in which the word "German" is current at
present) to advocate nationalism and race-hatred, or take delight in the
national heart-itch and blood-poisoning, on account of which the nations
of Europe are at present bounded off and secluded from one another as if
by quarantines. We are too unprejudiced for that, too perverse, too
fastidious; also too well-informed, and too much "travelled." We prefer
much rather to live on mountains, apart and "out of season," in past or
coming centuries, in order merely to spare ourselves the silent rage to
which we know we should be condemned as witnesses of a system of
politics which makes the German nation barren by making it vain, and
which is a _petty_ system besides:—will it not be necessary for this
system to plant itself between two mortal hatreds, lest its own creation
should immediately collapse? Will it not _be obliged_ to desire the
perpetuation of the petty-state system of Europe?... We homeless ones
are too diverse and mixed in race and descent as "modern men," and are
consequently little tempted to participate in the falsified racial
self-admiration and lewdness which at present display themselves in
Germany, as signs of German sentiment, and which strike one as doubly
false and unbecoming in the people with the "historical sense." We are,
in a word—and it shall be our word of honour!—_good Europeans_, the
heirs of Europe, the rich, over-wealthy heirs, also the too deeply
pledged heirs of millenniums of European thought. As such, we have also
outgrown Christianity, and are disinclined to it—and just because we
have grown _out of_ it, because our forefathers were Christians
uncompromising in their Christian integrity, who willingly sacrificed
possessions and positions, blood and country, for the sake of their
belief. We—do the same. For what, then? For our unbelief? For all sorts
of unbelief? Nay, you know better than that, my friends! The hidden
_Yea_ in you is stronger than all the Nays and Perhapses, of which you
and your age are sick; and when you are obliged to put out to sea, you
emigrants, it is—once more a _faith_ which urges you thereto!...


                                  378.

"_And once more Grow Clear._"—We, the generous and rich in spirit, who
stand at the sides of the streets like open fountains and would hinder
no one from drinking from us: we do not know, alas! how to defend
ourselves when we should like to do so; we have no means of preventing
ourselves being made _turbid_ and dark,—we have no means of preventing
the age in which we live casting its "up-to-date rubbish" into us, nor
of hindering filthy birds throwing their excrement, the boys their
trash, and fatigued resting travellers their misery, great and small,
into us. But we do as we have always done: we take whatever is cast into
us down into our depths—for we are deep, we do not forget—_and once more
grow clear_....


                                  379.

_The Fool's Interruption._—It is not a misanthrope who has written this
book: the hatred of men costs too dear to-day. To hate as they formerly
hated _man_, in the fashion of Timon, completely, without qualification,
with all the heart, from the pure _love_ of hatred—for that purpose one
would have to renounce contempt:—and how much refined pleasure, how much
patience, how much benevolence even, do we owe to contempt! Moreover we
are thereby the "elect of God": refined contempt is our taste and
privilege, our art, our virtue perhaps, we, the most modern amongst the
moderns!... Hatred, on the contrary, makes equal, it puts men face to
face, in hatred there is honour; finally, in hatred there is _fear_,
quite a large amount of fear. We fearless ones, however, we, the most
intellectual men of the period, know our advantage well enough to live
without fear as the most intellectual persons of this age. People will
not easily behead us, shut us up, or banish us; they will not even ban
or burn our books. The age loves intellect, it loves us, and needs us,
even when we have to give it to understand that we are artists in
despising; that all intercourse with men is something of a horror to us;
that with all our gentleness, patience, humanity and courteousness, we
cannot persuade our nose to abandon its prejudice against the proximity
of man; that we love nature the more, the less humanly things are done
by her, and that we love art _when_ it is the flight of the artist from
man, or the raillery of the artist at man, or the raillery of the artist
at himself....


                                  380.

_"The Wanderer" Speaks._—In order for once to get a glimpse of our
European morality from a distance, in order to compare it with other
earlier or future moralities, one must do as the traveller who wants to
know the height of the towers of a city: for that purpose he _leaves_
the city. "Thoughts concerning moral prejudices," if they are not to be
prejudices concerning prejudices, presuppose a position _outside of_
morality, some sort of world beyond good and evil, to which one must
ascend, climb, or fly—and in the given case at any rate, a position
beyond _our_ good and evil, an emancipation from all "Europe,"
understood as a sum of inviolable valuations which have become part and
parcel of our flesh and blood. That one _wants_ in fact to get outside,
or aloft, is perhaps a sort of madness, a peculiarly unreasonable "thou
must"—for even we thinkers have our idiosyncrasies of "unfree will"—:
the question is whether one _can_ really get there. That may depend on
manifold conditions: in the main it is a question of how light or how
heavy we are, the problem of our "specific gravity." One must be _very
light_ in order to impel one's will to knowledge to such a distance, and
as it were beyond one's age, in order to create eyes for oneself for the
survey of millenniums, and a pure heaven in these eyes besides! One must
have freed oneself from many things by which we Europeans of to-day are
oppressed, hindered, held down, and made heavy. The man of such a
"Beyond," who wants to get even in sight of the highest standards of
worth of his age, must first of all "surmount" this age in himself—it is
the test of his power—and consequently not only his age, but also his
past aversion and opposition _to_ his age, his suffering _caused by_ his
age, his unseasonableness, his Romanticism....


                                  381.

_The Question of Intelligibility._—One not only wants to be understood
when one writes, but also—quite as certainly—_not_ to be understood. It
is by no means an objection to a book when someone finds it
unintelligible: perhaps this might just have been the intention of its
author,—perhaps he did not _want_ to be understood by "anyone." A
distinguished intellect and taste, when it wants to communicate its
thoughts, always selects its hearers; by selecting them, it at the same
time closes its barriers against "the others." It is there that all the
more refined laws of style have their origin: they at the same time keep
off, they create distance, they prevent "access" (intelligibility, as we
have said,)—while they open the ears of those who are acoustically
related to them. And to say it between ourselves and with reference to
my own case,—I do not desire that either my ignorance, or the vivacity
of my temperament, should prevent me being understood by _you_, my
friends: I certainly do not desire that my vivacity should have that
effect, however much it may impel me to arrive quickly at an object, in
order to arrive at it at all. For I think it is best to do with profound
problems as with a cold bath—quickly in, quickly out. That one does not
thereby get into the depths, that one does not get deep enough _down_—is
a superstition of the hydrophobic, the enemies of cold water; they speak
without experience. Oh! the great cold makes one quick!—And let me ask
by the way: Is it a fact that a thing has been misunderstood and
unrecognised when it has only been touched upon in passing, glanced at,
flashed at? Must one absolutely sit upon it in the first place? Must one
have brooded on it as on an egg? _Diu noctuque incubando_, as Newton
said of himself? At least there are truths of a peculiar shyness and
ticklishness which one can only get hold of suddenly, and in no other
way,—which one must either _take by surprise_, or leave alone....
Finally, my brevity has still another value: on those questions which
pre-occupy me, I must say a great deal briefly, in order that it may be
heard yet more briefly. For as immoralist, one has to take care lest one
ruins innocence, I mean the asses and old maids of both sexes, who get
nothing from life but their innocence; moreover my writings are meant to
fill them with enthusiasm, to elevate them, to encourage them in virtue.
I should be at a loss to know of anything more amusing than to see
enthusiastic old asses and maids moved by the sweet feelings of virtue:
and "that have I seen"—spake Zarathustra. So much with respect to
brevity; the matter stands worse as regards my ignorance, of which I
make no secret to myself. There are hours in which I am ashamed of it;
to be sure there are likewise hours in which I am ashamed of this shame.
Perhaps we philosophers, all of us, are badly placed at present with
regard to knowledge: science is growing, the most learned of us are on
the point of discovering that we know too little. But it would be worse
still if it were otherwise,—if we knew too much; our duty is and
remains, first of all, not to get into confusion about ourselves. We
_are_ different from the learned; although it cannot be denied that
amongst other things we are also learned. We have different needs, a
different growth, a different digestion: we need more, we need also
less. There is no formula as to how much an intellect needs for its
nourishment; if, however, its taste be in the direction of independence,
rapid coming and going, travelling, and perhaps adventure for which only
the swiftest are qualified, it prefers rather to live free on poor fare,
than to be unfree and plethoric. Not fat, but the greatest suppleness
and power is what a good dancer wishes from his nourishment,—and I know
not what the spirit of a philosopher would like better than to be a good
dancer. For the dance is his ideal, and also his art, in the end
likewise his sole piety, his "divine service."...


                                  382.

_Great Healthiness._—We, the new, the nameless, the hard-to-understand,
we firstlings of a yet untried future—we require for a new end also a
new means, namely, a new healthiness, stronger, sharper, tougher, bolder
and merrier than any healthiness hitherto. He whose soul longs to
experience the whole range of hitherto recognised values and
desirabilities, and to circumnavigate all the coasts of this ideal
"Mediterranean Sea," who, from the adventures of his most personal
experience, wants to know how it feels to be a conqueror, and discoverer
of the ideal—as likewise how it is with the artist, the saint, the
legislator, the sage, the scholar, the devotee, the prophet, and the
godly Nonconformist of the old style:—requires one thing above all for
that purpose, _great healthiness_—such healthiness as one not only
possesses, but also constantly acquires and must acquire, because one
continually sacrifices it again, and must sacrifice it!—And now, after
having been long on the way in this fashion, we Argonauts of the ideal,
who are more courageous perhaps than prudent, and often enough
shipwrecked and brought to grief, nevertheless, as said above, healthier
than people would like to admit, dangerously healthy, always healthy
again,—it would seem, as if in recompense for it all, that we have a
still undiscovered country before us, the boundaries of which no one has
yet seen, a beyond to all countries and corners of the ideal known
hitherto, a world so over-rich in the beautiful, the strange, the
questionable, the frightful, and the divine, that our curiosity as well
as our thirst for possession thereof, have got out of hand—alas! that
nothing will now any longer satisfy us! How could we still be content
with _the man of the present day_ after such peeps, and with such a
craving in our conscience and consciousness? What a pity; but it is
unavoidable that we should look on the worthiest aims and hopes of the
man of the present day with ill-concealed amusement, and perhaps should
no longer look at them. Another ideal runs on before us, a strange,
tempting ideal, full of danger, to which we should not like to persuade
any one, because we do not so readily acknowledge any one's _right
thereto_: the ideal of a spirit who plays naïvely (that is to say
involuntarily and from overflowing abundance and power) with everything
that has hitherto been called holy, good, inviolable, divine; to whom
the loftiest conception which the people have reasonably made their
measure of value, would already imply danger, ruin, abasement, or at
least relaxation, blindness, or temporary self-forgetfulness; the ideal
of a humanly superhuman welfare and benevolence, which may often enough
appear _inhuman_, for example, when put by the side of all past
seriousness on earth, and in comparison with all past solemnities in
bearing, word, tone, look, morality and pursuit, as their truest
involuntary parody,— but with which, nevertheless, perhaps _the great
seriousness_ only commences, the proper interrogation mark is set up,
the fate of the soul changes, the hour-hand moves, and tragedy
_begins_....


                                  383.

_Epilogue._—But while I slowly, slowly finish the painting of this
sombre interrogation-mark, and am still inclined to remind my readers of
the virtues of right reading—oh, what forgotten and unknown virtues—it
comes to pass that the wickedest, merriest, gnome-like laughter resounds
around me: the spirits of my book themselves pounce upon me, pull me by
the ears, and call me to order. "We cannot endure it any longer," they
shout to me, "away, away with this raven-black music. Is it not clear
morning round about us? And green, soft ground and turf, the domain of
the dance? Was there ever a better hour in which to be joyful? Who will
sing us a song, a morning song, so sunny, so light and so fledged that
it will _not_ scare the tantrums,—but will rather invite them to take
part in the singing and dancing. And better a simple rustic bagpipe than
such weird sounds, such toad-croakings, grave-voices and marmot-pipings,
with which you have hitherto regaled us in your wilderness, Mr Anchorite
and Musician of the Future! No! Not such tones! But let us strike up
something more agreeable and more joyful!"—You would like to have it so,
my impatient friends? Well! Who would not willingly accord with your
wishes? My bagpipe is waiting, and my voice also—it may sound a little
hoarse; take it as it is! don't forget we are in the mountains! But what
you will hear is at least new; and if you do not understand it, if you
misunderstand the _singer_, what does it matter! That—has always been
"The Singer's Curse."[14] So much the more distinctly can you hear his
music and melody, so much the better also can you—dance to his piping.
_Would you like_ to do that?...

-----

Footnote 11:

  In German the expression _Kopf zu waschen_, besides the literal sense,
  also means "to give a person a sound drubbing."—TR.

Footnote 12:

  "_Germany, Germany, above all_": the first line of the German national
  song.—TR.

Footnote 13:

  An allusion to the German Proverb, "Handwerk hat einen goldenen
  Boden."—TR.

Footnote 14:

  Title of the well-known poem of Uhland.—TR.




                                APPENDIX

                     SONGS OF PRINCE FREE-AS-A-BIRD


                             TO GOETHE.[15]

                    "The Undecaying"
                    Is but thy label,
                    God the betraying
                    Is poets' fable.

                    Our aims all are thwarted
                    By the World-wheel's blind roll:
                    "Doom," says the downhearted,
                    "Sport," says the fool.

                    The World-sport, all-ruling,
                    Mingles false with true:
                    The Eternally Fooling
                    Makes us play, too!


                            THE POET'S CALL.

         As 'neath a shady tree I sat
           After long toil to take my pleasure,
         I heard a tapping "pit-a-pat"
           Beat prettily in rhythmic measure.
         Tho' first I scowled, my face set hard,
           The sound at length my sense entrapping
         Forced me to speak like any bard,
           And keep true time unto the tapping.

         As I made verses, never stopping,
           Each syllable the bird went after,
         Keeping in time with dainty hopping!
           I burst into unmeasured laughter!
         What, you a poet? You a poet?
           Can your brains truly so addled be?
         "Yes, yes, good sir, you are a poet,"
           Chirped out the pecker, mocking me.

         What doth me to these woods entice?
           The chance to give some thief a trouncing?
         A saw, an image? Ha, in a trice
           My rhyme is on it, swiftly pouncing!
         All things that creep or crawl the poet
           Weaves in his word-loom cunningly.
         "Yes, yes, good sir, you are a poet,"
           Chirped out the pecker, mocking me.

         Like to an arrow, methinks, a verse is,
           See how it quivers, pricks and smarts
         When shot full straight (no tender mercies!)
           Into the reptile's nobler parts!
         Wretches, you die at the hand of the poet,
           Or stagger like men that have drunk too free.
         "Yes, yes, good sir, you are a poet,"
           Chirped out the pecker, mocking me.

         So they go hurrying, stanzas malign,
           Drunken words—what a clattering, banging!—
         Till the whole company, line on line,
           All on the rhythmic chain are hanging.
         Has he really a cruel heart, your poet?
           Are there fiends who rejoice, the slaughter to see?
         "Yes, yes, good sir, you are a poet,"
           Chirped out the pecker, mocking me.

         So you jest at me, bird, with your scornful graces?
           So sore indeed is the plight of my head?
         And my heart, you say, in yet sorrier case is?
           Beware! for my wrath is a thing to dread!
         Yet e'en in the hour of his wrath the poet
           Rhymes you and sings with the selfsame glee.
         "Yes, yes, good sir, you are a poet,"
           Chirped out the pecker, mocking me.


                           IN THE SOUTH.[16]

                I swing on a bough, and rest
                My tired limbs in a nest,
                In the rocking home of a bird,
                Wherein I perch as his guest,
                        In the South!

                I gaze on the ocean asleep,
                On the purple sail of a boat;
                On the harbour and tower steep,
                On the rocks that stand out of the deep,
                        In the South!

                For I could no longer stay,
                To crawl in slow German way;
                So I called to the birds, bade the wind
                Lift me up and bear me away
                        To the South!

                No reasons for me, if you please;
                Their end is too dull and too plain;
                But a pair of wings and a breeze,
                With courage and health and ease,
                And games that chase disease
                        From the South!

                Wise thoughts can move without sound,
                But I've songs that I can't sing alone;
                So birdies, pray gather around,
                And listen to what I have found
                        In the South!

                    *    *    *

                "You are merry lovers and false and gay,
                In frolics and sport you pass the day;
                Whilst in the North, I shudder to say,
                I worshipped a woman, hideous and gray,
                Her name was Truth, so I heard them say,
                But I left her there and I flew away
                        To the South!"


                            BEPPA THE PIOUS.

                   While beauty in my face is,
                     Be piety my care,
                   For God, you know, loves lasses,
                     And, more than all, the fair.
                   And if yon hapless monkling
                     Is fain with me to live,
                   Like many another monkling,
                     God surely will forgive.

                   No grey old priestly devil,
                     But, young, with cheeks aflame—
                   Who e'en when sick with revel,
                     Can jealous be and blame.
                   To greybeards I'm a stranger,
                     And he, too, hates the old:
                   Of God, the world-arranger,
                     The wisdom here behold!

                   The Church has ken of living,
                     And tests by heart and face.
                   To me she'll be forgiving!
                     Who will not show me grace?
                   I lisp with pretty halting,
                     I curtsey, bid "good day,"
                   And with the fresh defaulting
                     I wash the old away!

                   Praise be this man-God's guerdon,
                     Who loves all maidens fair,
                   And his own heart can pardon
                     The sin he planted there.
                   While beauty in my face is,
                     With piety I'll stand,
                   When age has killed my graces,
                     Let Satan claim my hand!


                          THE BOAT OF MYSTERY.

              Yester-eve, when all things slept—
                Scarce a breeze to stir the lane—
              I a restless vigil kept,
                Nor from pillows sleep could gain,
              Nor from poppies nor—most sure
              Of opiates—a conscience pure.

              Thoughts of rest I 'gan forswear,
                Rose and walked along the strand,
              Found, in warm and moonlit air,
                Man and boat upon the sand,
              Drowsy both, and drowsily
              Did the boat put out to sea.

              Passed an hour or two perchance,
                Or a year? then thought and sense
              Vanished in the engulfing trance
                Of a vast Indifference.
              Fathomless, abysses dread
              Opened—then the vision fled.

              Morning came: becalmed, the boat
                Rested on the purple flood:
              "What had happened?" every throat
                Shrieked the question: "was there—Blood?"
              Naught had happened! On the swell
              We had slumbered, oh, so well!


                           AN AVOWAL OF LOVE

          (_during which, however, the poet fell into a pit_).

             Oh marvel! there he flies
         Cleaving the sky with wings unmoved—what force
             Impels him, bids him rise,
         What curb restrains him? Where's his goal, his course?

             Like stars and time eterne
         He liveth now in heights that life forswore,
             Nor envy's self doth spurn:
         A lofty flight were't, e'en to see him soar!

             Oh albatross, great bird,
         Speeding me upward ever through the blue!
             I thought of her, was stirred
         To tears unending—yea, I love her true!


                    SONG OF A THEOCRITEAN GOATHERD.

                Here I lie, my bowels sore,
                  Hosts of bugs advancing,
                Yonder lights and romp and roar!
                  What's that sound? They're dancing!

                At this instant, so she prated,
                  Stealthily she'd meet me:
                Like a faithful dog I've waited,
                  Not a sign to greet me!

                She promised, made the cross-sign, too,
                  Could her vows be hollow?
                Or runs she after all that woo,
                  Like the goats I follow?

                Whence your silken gown, my maid?
                  Ah, you'd fain be haughty,
                Yet perchance you've proved a jade
                  With some satyr naughty!

                Waiting long, the lovelorn wight
                  Is filled with rage and poison:
                Even so on sultry night
                  Toadstools grow in foison.

                Pinching sore, in devil's mood,
                  Love doth plague my crupper:
                Truly I can eat no food:
                  Farewell, onion-supper!

                Seaward sinks the moon away,
                  The stars are wan, and flare not:
                Dawn approaches, gloomy, grey,
                  Let Death come! I care not!


                    "SOULS THAT LACK DETERMINATION."

            Souls that lack determination
              Rouse my wrath to white-hot flame!
            All their glory's but vexation,
              All their praise but self-contempt and shame!

            Since I baffle their advances,
              Will not clutch their leading-string,
            They would wither me with glances
              Bitter-sweet, with hopeless envy sting.

            Let them with fell curses shiver,
              Curl their lip the livelong day!
            Seek me as they will, forever
              Helplessly their eyes shall go astray!


                          THE FOOL'S DILEMMA.

                 Ah, what I wrote on board and wall
                 With foolish heart, in foolish scrawl,
                 I meant but for their decoration!

                 Yet say you, "Fools' abomination!
                 Both board and wall require purgation,
                 And let no trace our eyes appal!"

                 Well, I will help you, as I can,
                 For sponge and broom are my vocation,
                 As critic and as waterman.

                 But when the finished work I scan,
                 I'm glad to see each learned owl
                 With "wisdom" board and wall defoul.


                             RIMUS REMEDIUM

                  (_or a Consolation to Sick Poets_).

                  From thy moist lips,
              O Time, thou witch, beslavering me,
              Hour upon hour too slowly drips
              In vain—I cry, in frenzy's fit,
              "A curse upon that yawning pit,
                A curse upon Eternity!"

                  The world's of brass,
              A fiery bullock, deaf to wail:
              Pain's dagger pierces my cuirass,
              Wingéd, and writes upon my bone:
              "Bowels and heart the world hath none,
                Why scourge her sins with anger's flail?"

                  Pour poppies now,
              Pour venom, Fever, on my brain!
              Too long you test my hand and brow:
              What ask you? "What—reward is paid?"
              A malediction on you, jade,
                And your disdain!

                  No, I retract,
              'Tis cold—I hear the rain importune—
              Fever, I'll soften, show my tact:
              Here's gold—a coin—see it gleam!
              Shall I with blessings on you beam,
                Call you "good fortune"?

                  The door opes wide,
              And raindrops on my bed are scattered,
              The light's blown out—woes multiplied!
              He that hath not an hundred rhymes,
              I'll wager, in these dolorous times
                We'd see him shattered!


                               MY BLISS.

          Once more, St Mark, thy pigeons meet my gaze,
            The Square lies still, in slumbering morning mood:
          In soft, cool air I fashion idle lays,
            Speeding them skyward like a pigeon's brood:
              And then recall my minions
          To tie fresh rhymes upon their willing pinions.
                My bliss! My bliss!

          Calm heavenly roof of azure silkiness,
            Guarding with shimmering haze yon house divine!
          Thee, house, I love, fear—envy, I'll confess,
            And gladly would suck out that soul of thine!
              "Should I give back the prize?"
          Ask not, great pasture-ground for human eyes!
                My bliss! My bliss!

          Stern belfry, rising as with lion's leap
            Sheer from the soil in easy victory,
          That fill'st the Square with peal resounding, deep,
            Wert thou in French that Square's "accent aigu"?
              Were I for ages set
          In earth like thee, I know what silk-meshed net....
                My bliss! My bliss!

          Hence, music! First let darker shadows come,
            And grow, and merge into brown, mellow night!
          'Tis early for your pealing, ere the dome
            Sparkle in roseate glory, gold-bedight
              While yet 'tis day, there's time
          For strolling, lonely muttering, forging rhyme—
                My bliss! My bliss!


                          COLUMBUS REDIVIVUS.

                Thither I'll travel, that's my notion,
                  I'll trust myself, my grip,
                Where opens wide and blue the ocean
                  I'll ply my Genoa ship.

                New things on new the world unfolds me,
                  Time, space with noonday die:
                Alone thy monstrous eye beholds me,
                  Awful Infinity!


                              SILS-MARIA.

          Here sat I waiting, waiting, but for naught!
          Beyond all good and evil—now by light wrought

          To joy, now by dark shadows—all was leisure,
          All lake, all noon, all time sans aim, sans measure.

          Then one, dear friend, was swiftly changed to twain,
          And Zarathustra left my teeming brain....


                     A DANCING SONG TO THE MISTRAL
                               WIND.[17]

               Wildly rushing, clouds outleaping,
               Care-destroying, Heaven sweeping,
                 Mistral wind, thou art my friend!
               Surely 'twas one womb did bear us,
               Surely 'twas one fate did pair us,
                 Fellows for a common end.

               From the crags I gaily greet you,
               Running fast I come to meet you,
                 Dancing while you pipe and sing.
               How you bound across the ocean,
               Unimpeded, free in motion,
                 Swifter than with boat or wing!

               Through my dreams your whistle sounded,
               Down the rocky stairs I bounded
                 To the golden ocean wall;
               Saw you hasten, swift and glorious,
               Like a river, strong, victorious,
                 Tumbling in a waterfall.

               Saw you rushing over Heaven,
               With your steeds so wildly driven,
                 Saw the car in which you flew;
               Saw the lash that wheeled and quivered,
               While the hand that held it shivered,
                 Urging on the steeds anew.

               Saw you from your chariot swinging,
               So that swifter downward springing
                 Like an arrow you might go
               Straight into the deep abysses,
               As a sunbeam falls and kisses
                 Roses in the morning glow.

               Dance, oh! dance on all the edges,
               Wave-crests, cliffs and mountain ledges,
                 Ever finding dances new!
               Let our knowledge be our gladness,
               Let our art be sport and madness,
                 All that's joyful shall be true!

               Let us snatch from every bower,
               As we pass, the fairest flower,
                 With some leaves to make a crown;
               Then, like minstrels gaily dancing,
               Saint and witch together prancing,
                 Let us foot it up and down.

               Those who come must move as quickly
               As the wind—we'll have no sickly,
                 Crippled, withered, in our crew;
               Off with hypocrites and preachers,
               Proper folk and prosy teachers,
                 Sweep them from our heaven blue.

               Sweep away all sad grimaces,
               Whirl the dust into the faces
                 Of the dismal sick and cold!
               Hunt them from our breezy places,
               Not for them the wind that braces,
                 But for men of visage bold.

               Off with those who spoil earth's gladness,
               Blow away all clouds of sadness,
                 Till our heaven clear we see;
               Let me hold thy hand, best fellow,
               Till my joy like tempest bellow!
                 Freest thou of spirits free!

               When thou partest, take a token
               Of the joy thou hast awoken,
                 Take our wreath and fling it far;
               Toss it up and catch it never,
               Whirl it on before thee ever,
                 Till it reach the farthest star.

-----





PREFACE.


1.

We are unknown, we knowers, ourselves to ourselves: this has its own
good reason. We have never searched for ourselves--how should it then
come to pass, that we should ever _find_ ourselves? Rightly has it been
said: "Where your treasure is, there will your heart be also." _Our_
treasure is there, where stand the hives of our knowledge. It is to
those hives that we are always striving; as born creatures of flight,
and as the honey-gatherers of the spirit, we care really in our hearts
only for one thing--to bring something "home to the hive!"

As far as the rest of life with its so-called "experiences" is
concerned, which of us has even sufficient serious interest? or
sufficient time? In our dealings with such points of life, we are, I
fear, never properly to the point; to be precise, our heart is not
there, and certainly not our ear. Rather like one who, delighting
in a divine distraction, or sunken in the seas of his own soul, in
whose ear the clock has just thundered with all its force its twelve
strokes of noon, suddenly wakes up, and asks himself, "What has in
point of fact just struck?" so do we at times rub afterwards, as it
were, our puzzled ears, and ask in complete astonishment and complete
embarrassment, "Through what have we in point of fact just lived?"
further, "Who are we in point of fact?" and count, _after they have
struck_, as I have explained, all the twelve throbbing beats of the
clock of our experience, of our life, of our being--ah!--and count
wrong in the endeavour. Of necessity we remain strangers to ourselves,
we understand ourselves not, in ourselves we are bound to be mistaken,
for of us holds good to all eternity the motto, "Each one is the
farthest away from himself"--as far as ourselves are concerned we are
not "knowers."


2.

My thoughts concerning the _genealogy_ of our moral prejudices--for
they constitute the issue in this polemic--have their first, bald,
and provisional expression in that collection of aphorisms entitled
_Human, all-too-Human, a Book for Free Minds_, the writing of which
was begun in Sorrento, during a winter which allowed me to gaze over
the broad and dangerous territory through which my mind had up to that
time wandered. This took place in the winter of 1876-77; the thoughts
themselves are older. They were in their substance already the same
thoughts which I take up again in the following treatises:--we hope
that they have derived benefit from the long interval, that they have
grown riper, clearer, stronger, more complete. The fact, however,
that I still cling to them even now, that in the meanwhile they have
always held faster by each other, have, in fact, grown out of their
original shape and into each other, all this strengthens in my mind the
joyous confidence that they must have been originally neither separate
disconnected capricious nor sporadic phenomena, but have sprung from
a common root, from a fundamental "_fiat_" of knowledge, whose empire
reached to the soul's depth, and that ever grew more definite in its
voice, and more definite in its demands. That is the only state of
affairs that is proper in the case of a philosopher.

We have no right to be "_disconnected_"; we must neither err
"disconnectedly" nor strike the truth "disconnectedly." Rather with
the necessity with which a tree bears its fruit, so do our thoughts,
our values, our Yes's and No's and If's and Whether's, grow connected
and interrelated, mutual witnesses of _one_ will, _one_ health, _one_
kingdom, _one_ sun--as to whether they are to _your_ taste, these
fruits of ours?--But what matters that to the trees? What matters that
to us, us the philosophers?


3.

Owing to a scrupulosity peculiar to myself, which I confess
reluctantly,--it concerns indeed _morality_,--a scrupulosity, which
manifests itself in my life at such an early period, with so much
spontaneity, with so chronic a persistence and so keen an opposition
to environment, epoch, precedent, and ancestry that I should have
been almost entitled to style it my "_â priori_"--my curiosity and my
suspicion felt themselves betimes bound to halt at the question, of
what in point of actual fact was the _origin_ of our "Good" and of
our "Evil." Indeed, at the boyish age of thirteen the problem of the
origin of Evil already haunted me: at an age "when games and God divide
one's heart," I devoted to that problem my first childish attempt
at the literary game, my first philosophic essay--and as regards my
infantile solution of the problem, well, I gave quite properly the
honour to God, and made him the _father_ of evil. Did my own "_â
priori_" demand that precise solution from me? that new, immoral, or
at least "amoral" "_â priori_" and that "categorical imperative" which
was its voice (but oh! how hostile to the Kantian article, and how
pregnant with problems!), to which since then I have given more and
more attention, and indeed what is more than attention. Fortunately
I soon learned to separate theological from moral prejudices, and
I gave up looking for a _supernatural_ origin of evil. A certain
amount of historical and philological education, to say nothing of
an innate faculty of psychological discrimination _par excellence_
succeeded in transforming almost immediately my original problem into
the following one:--Under what conditions did Man invent for himself
those judgments of values, "Good" and "Evil"? _And what intrinsic value
do they possess in themselves?_ Have they up to the present hindered
or advanced human well-being? Are they a symptom of the distress,
impoverishment, and degeneration of Human Life? Or, conversely, is
it in them that is manifested the fulness, the strength, and the
will of Life, its courage, its self-confidence, its future? On this
point I found and hazarded in my mind the most diverse answers, I
established distinctions in periods, peoples, and castes, I became a
specialist in my problem, and from my answers grew new questions, new
investigations, new conjectures, new probabilities; until at last I had
a land of my own and a soil of my own, a whole secret world growing and
flowering, like hidden gardens of whose existence no one could have an
inkling--oh, how happy are we, we finders of knowledge, provided that
we know how to keep silent sufficiently long.


4.

My first impulse to publish some of my hypotheses concerning the origin
of morality I owe to a clear, well-written, and even precocious little
book, in which a perverse and vicious kind of moral philosophy (your
real English kind) was definitely presented to me for the first time;
and this attracted me--with that magnetic attraction, inherent in that
which is diametrically opposed and antithetical to one's own ideas.
The title of the book was _The Origin of the Moral Emotions_; its
author, Dr. Paul Rée; the year of its appearance, 1877. I may almost
say that I have never read anything in which every single dogma and
conclusion has called forth from me so emphatic a negation as did that
book; albeit a negation tainted by either pique or intolerance. I
referred accordingly both in season and out of season in the previous
works, at which I was then working, to the arguments of that book, not
to refute them--for what have I got to do with mere refutations but
substituting, as is natural to a positive mind, for an improbable
theory one which is more probable, and occasionally no doubt, for one
philosophic error, another. In that early period I gave, as I have
said, the first public expression to those theories of origin to which
these essays are devoted, but with a clumsiness which I was the last
to conceal from myself, for I was as yet cramped, being still without
a special language for these special subjects, still frequently liable
to relapse and to vacillation. To go into details, compare what I say
in _Human, all-too-Human_, part i., about the parallel early history
of Good and Evil, Aph. 45 (namely, their origin from the castes of the
aristocrats and the slaves); similarly, Aph. 136 et seq., concerning
the birth and value of ascetic morality; similarly, Aphs. 96, 99,
vol. ii., Aph. 89, concerning the Morality of Custom, that far older
and more original kind of morality which is _toto cœlo_ different
from the altruistic ethics (in which Dr. Rée, like all the English
moral philosophers, sees the ethical "Thing-in-itself"); finally,
Aph. 92. Similarly, Aph. 26 in _Human, all-too-Human_, part ii., and
Aph. 112, the _Dawn of Day_, concerning the origin of Justice as a
balance between persons of approximately equal power (equilibrium as
the hypothesis of all contract, consequently of all law); similarly,
concerning the origin of Punishment, _Human, all-too-Human_, part
ii., Aphs. 22, 23, in regard to which the deterrent object is neither
essential nor original (as Dr. Rée thinks:--rather is it that this
object is only imported, under certain definite conditions, and always
as something extra and additional).


5.

In reality I had set my heart at that time on something much more
important than the nature of the theories of myself or others
concerning the origin of morality (or, more precisely, the real
function from my view of these theories was to point an end to which
they were one among many means). The issue for me was the value
of morality, and on that subject I had to place myself in a state
of abstraction, in which I was almost alone with my great teacher
Schopenhauer, to whom that book, with all its passion and inherent
contradiction (for that book also was a polemic), turned for present
help as though he were still alive. The issue was, strangely enough,
the value of the "un-egoistic" instincts, the instincts of pity,
self-denial, and self-sacrifice which Schopenhauer had so persistently
painted in golden colours, deified and etherealised, that eventually
they appeared to him, as it were, high and dry, as "intrinsic values
in themselves," on the strength of which he uttered both to Life
and to himself his own negation. But against _these very_ instincts
there voiced itself in my soul a more and more fundamental mistrust, a
scepticism that dug ever deeper and deeper: and in this very instinct
I saw the _great_ danger of mankind, its most sublime temptation and
seduction--seduction to what? to nothingness?--in these very instincts
I saw the beginning of the end, stability, the exhaustion that gazes
backwards, the will turning _against_ Life, the last illness announcing
itself with its own mincing melancholy: I realised that the morality
of pity which spread wider and wider, and whose grip infected even
philosophers with its disease, was the most sinister symptom of our
modern European civilisation; I realised that it was the route along
which that civilisation slid on its way to--a new Buddhism?--a European
Buddhism?--_Nihilism_? This exaggerated estimation in which modern
philosophers have held pity, is quite a new phenomenon: up to that time
philosophers were absolutely unanimous as to the worthlessness of pity.
I need only mention Plato, Spinoza, La Rochefoucauld, and Kant--four
minds as mutually different as is possible, but united on one point;
their contempt of pity.


6.

This problem of the value of pity and of the pity-morality (I am an
opponent of the modern infamous emasculation of our emotions) seems at
the first blush a mere isolated problem, a note of interrogation for
itself; he, however, who once halts at this problem, and learns how to
put questions, will experience what I experienced:--a new and immense
vista unfolds itself before him, a sense of potentiality seizes him
like a vertigo, every species of doubt, mistrust, and fear springs
up, the belief in morality, nay, in all morality, totters,--finally a
new demand voices itself. Let us speak out this _new demand_: we need
a _critique_ of moral values, _the value of these values_ is for the
first time to be called into question--and for this purpose a knowledge
is necessary of the conditions and circumstances out of which these
values grew, and under which they experienced their evolution and
their distortion (morality as a result, as a symptom, as a mask, as
Tartuffism, as disease, as a misunderstanding; but also morality as a
cause, as a remedy, as a stimulant, as a fetter, as a drug), especially
as such a knowledge has neither existed up to the present time nor is
even now generally desired. The value of these "values" was taken for
granted as an indisputable fact, which was beyond all question. No one
has, up to the present, exhibited the faintest doubt or hesitation in
judging the "good man" to be of a higher value than the "evil man," of
a higher value with regard specifically to human progress, utility,
and prosperity generally, not forgetting the future. What? Suppose the
converse were the truth! What? Suppose there lurked in the "good man"
a symptom of retrogression, such as a danger, a temptation, a poison,
a _narcotic_, by means of which the present _battened on the future_!
More comfortable and less risky perhaps than its opposite, but also
pettier, meaner! So that morality would really be saddled with the
guilt, if the _maximum potentiality of the power and splendour_ of the
human species were never to be attained? So that really morality would
be the danger of dangers?


7.

Enough, that after this vista had disclosed itself to me, I myself had
reason to search for learned, bold, and industrious colleagues (I am
doing it even to this very day). It means traversing with new clamorous
questions, and at the same time with new eyes, the immense, distant,
and completely unexplored land of morality--of a morality which has
actually existed and been actually lived! and is this not practically
equivalent to first _discovering_ that land? If, in this context, I
thought, amongst others, of the aforesaid Dr. Rée, I did so because I
had no doubt that from the very nature of his questions he would be
compelled to have recourse to a truer method, in order to obtain his
answers. Have I deceived myself on that score? I wished at all events
to give a better direction of vision to an eye of such keenness, and
such impartiality. I wished to direct him to the real _history of
morality_, and to warn him, while there was yet time, against a world
of English theories that culminated in _the blue vacuum of heaven_.
Other colours, of course, rise immediately to one's mind as being a
hundred times more potent than blue for a genealogy of morals:--for
instance, grey, by which I mean authentic facts capable of definite
proof and having actually existed, or, to put it shortly, the whole
of that long hieroglyphic script (which is so hard to decipher) about
the past history of human morals. This script was unknown to Dr. Rée;
but he had read Darwin:--and so in his philosophy the Darwinian beast
and that pink of modernity, the demure weakling and dilettante, who
"bites no longer," shake hands politely in a fashion that is at least
instructive, the latter exhibiting a certain facial expression of
refined and good-humoured indolence, tinged with a touch of pessimism
and exhaustion; as if it really did not pay to take all these things--I
mean moral problems--so seriously. I, on the other hand, think that
there are no subjects which pay better for being taken seriously; part
of this payment is, that perhaps eventually they admit of being taken
gaily. This gaiety indeed, or, to use my own language, this joyful
wisdom, is a payment; a payment for a protracted, brave, laborious, and
burrowing seriousness, which, it goes without saying, is the attribute
of but a few. But on that day on which we say from the fullness of our
hearts, "Forward! our old morality too is fit material for Comedy,"
we shall have discovered a new plot, and a new possibility for the
Dionysian drama entitled The Soul's Fate--and he will speedily utilise
it, one can wager safely, he, the great ancient eternal dramatist of
the comedy of our existence.


8.

If this writing be obscure to any individual, and jar on his ears, I
do not think that it is necessarily I who am to blame. It is clear
enough, on the hypothesis which I presuppose, namely, that the reader
has first read my previous writings and has not grudged them a certain
amount of trouble: it is not, indeed, a simple matter to get really at
their essence. Take, for instance, my _Zarathustra_; I allow no one
to pass muster as knowing that book, unless every single word therein
has at some time wrought in him a profound wound, and at some time
exercised on him a profound enchantment: then and not till then can he
enjoy the privilege of participating reverently in the halcyon element,
from which that work is born, in its sunny brilliance, its distance,
its spaciousness, its certainty. In other cases the aphoristic form
produces difficulty, but this is only because this form is treated
_too casually_. An aphorism properly coined and cast into its final
mould is far from being "deciphered" as soon as it has been read; on
the contrary, it is then that it first requires _to be expounded_--of
course for that purpose an art of exposition is necessary. The third
essay in this book provides an example of what is offered, of what in
such cases I call exposition: an aphorism is prefixed to that essay,
the essay itself is its commentary. Certainly one _quality_ which
nowadays has been best forgotten--and that is why it will take some
time yet for my writings to become readable--is essential in order
to practise reading as an art--a quality for the exercise of which it
is necessary to be a cow, and under no circumstances a modern man!--
rumination.

Sils-Maria, Upper Engadine, July 1887.




FIRST ESSAY. "GOOD AND EVIL," "GOOD AND BAD."


1.

Those English psychologists, who up to the present are the only
philosophers who are to be thanked for any endeavour to get as far
as a history of the origin of morality--these men, I say, offer us
in their own personalities no paltry problem;--they even have, if I
am to be quite frank about it, in their capacity of living riddles,
an advantage over their books--_they themselves are interesting!_
These English psychologists--what do they really mean? We always
find them voluntarily or involuntarily at the same task of pushing
to the front the _partie honteuse_ of our inner world, and looking
for the efficient, governing, and decisive principle in that precise
quarter where the intellectual self-respect of the race would be
the most reluctant to find it (for example, in the _vis inertiæ_ of
habit, or in forgetfulness, or in a blind and fortuitous mechanism
and association of ideas, or in some factor that is purely passive,
reflex, molecular, or fundamentally stupid)--what is the real motive
power which always impels these psychologists in precisely _this_
direction? Is it an instinct for human disparagement somewhat sinister,
vulgar, and malignant, or perhaps incomprehensible even to itself? or
perhaps a touch of pessimistic jealousy, the mistrust of disillusioned
idealists who have become gloomy, poisoned, and bitter? or a petty
subconscious enmity and rancour against Christianity (and Plato), that
has conceivably never crossed the threshold of consciousness? or just a
vicious taste for those elements of life which are bizarre, painfully
paradoxical, mystical, and illogical? or, as a final alternative, a
dash of each of these motives--a little vulgarity, a little gloominess,
a little anti-Christianity, a little craving for the necessary piquancy?

But I am told that it is simply a case of old frigid and tedious frogs
crawling and hopping around men and inside men, as if they were as
thoroughly at home there, as they would be in a _swamp_.

I am opposed to this statement, nay, I do not believe it; and if, in
the impossibility of knowledge, one is permitted to wish, so do I wish
from my heart that just the converse metaphor should apply, and that
these analysts with their psychological microscopes should be, at
bottom, brave, proud, and magnanimous animals who know how to bridle
both their hearts and their smarts, and have specifically trained
themselves to sacrifice what is desirable to what is true, any truth
in fact, even the simple, bitter, ugly, repulsive, unchristian, and
immoral truths--for there are truths of that description.


2.

All honour, then, to the noble spirits who would fain dominate these
historians of morality. But it is certainly a pity that they lack the
_historical sense_ itself, that they themselves are quite deserted
by all the beneficent spirits of history. The whole train of their
thought runs, as was always the way of old-fashioned philosophers, on
thoroughly unhistorical lines: there is no doubt on this point. The
crass ineptitude of their genealogy of morals is immediately apparent
when the question arises of ascertaining the origin of the idea and
judgment of "good." "Man had originally," so speaks their decree,
"praised and called 'good' altruistic acts from the standpoint of
those on whom they were conferred, that is, those to whom they were
_useful_; subsequently the origin of this praise was _forgotten_, and
altruistic acts, simply because, as a sheer matter of habit, they were
praised as good, came also to be felt as good--as though they contained
in themselves some intrinsic goodness." The thing is obvious:--this
initial derivation contains already all the typical and idiosyncratic
traits of the English psychologists--we have "utility," "forgetting,"
"habit," and finally "error," the whole assemblage forming the basis
of a system of values, on which the higher man has up to the present
prided himself as though it were a kind of privilege of man in general.
This pride _must_ be brought low, this system of values _must_ lose its
values: is that attained?

Now the first argument that comes ready to my hand is that the real
homestead of the concept "good" is sought and located in the wrong
place: the judgment "good" did not originate among those to whom
goodness was shown. Much rather has it been the good themselves,
that is, the aristocratic, the powerful, the high-stationed, the
high-minded, who have felt that they themselves were good, and that
their actions were good, that is to say of the first order, in
contradistinction to all the low, the low-minded, the vulgar, and
the plebeian. It was out of this pathos of distance that they first
arrogated the right to create values for their own profit, and to
coin the names of such values: what had they to do with utility? The
standpoint of utility is as alien and as inapplicable as it could
possibly be, when we have to deal with so volcanic an effervescence of
supreme values, creating and demarcating as they do a hierarchy within
themselves: it is at this juncture that one arrives at an appreciation
of the contrast to that tepid temperature, which is the presupposition
on which every combination of worldly wisdom and every calculation of
practical expediency is always based--and not for one occasional, not
for one exceptional instance, but chronically. The pathos of nobility
and distance, as I have said, the chronic and despotic _esprit de
corps_ and fundamental instinct of a higher dominant race coming into
association with a meaner race, an "under race," this is the origin of
the antithesis of good and bad.

(The masters' right of giving names goes so far that it is permissible
to look upon language itself as the expression of the power of the
masters: they say "this _is_ that, and that," they seal finally every
object and every event with a sound, and thereby at the same time take
possession of it.) It is because of this origin that the word "good"
is far from having any necessary connection with altruistic acts, in
accordance with the superstitious belief of these moral philosophers.
On the contrary, it is on the occasion of the _decay_ of aristocratic
values, that the antitheses between "egoistic" and "altruistic"
presses more and more heavily on the human conscience--it is, to use
my own language, the _herd instinct_ which finds in this antithesis an
expression in many ways. And even then it takes a considerable time
for this instinct to become sufficiently dominant, for the valuation
to be inextricably dependent on this antithesis (as is the case in
contemporary Europe); for to-day that prejudice is predominant, which,
acting even now with all the intensity of an obsession and brain
disease, holds that "moral," "altruistic," and "_désintéressé_" are
concepts of equal value.


3.

In the second place, quite apart from the fact that this hypothesis as
to the genesis of the value "good" cannot be historically upheld, it
suffers from an inherent psychological contradiction. The utility of
altruistic conduct has presumably been the origin of its being praised,
and this origin has become _forgotten_:--But in what conceivable way is
this forgetting _possible_! Has perchance the utility of such conduct
ceased at some given moment? The contrary is the case. This utility has
rather been experienced every day at all times, and is consequently
a feature that obtains a new and regular emphasis with every fresh
day; it follows that, so far from vanishing from the consciousness, so
far indeed from being forgotten, it must necessarily become impressed
on the consciousness with ever-increasing distinctness. How much
more logical is that contrary theory (it is not the truer for that)
which is represented, for instance, by Herbert Spencer, who places
the concept "good" as essentially similar to the concept "useful,"
"purposive," so that in the judgments "good" and "bad" mankind is
simply summarising and investing with a sanction its _unforgotten_ and
_unforgettable_ experiences concerning the "useful-purposive" and the
"mischievous-non-purposive." According to this theory, "good" is the
attribute of that which has previously shown itself useful; and so
is able to claim to be considered "valuable in the highest degree,"
"valuable in itself." This method of explanation is also, as I have
said, wrong, but at any rate the explanation itself is coherent, and
psychologically tenable.


4.

The guide-post which first put me on the right track was this
question--what is the true etymological significance of the various
symbols for the idea "good" which have been coined in the various
languages? I then found that they all led back to _the same evolution
of the same idea_--that everywhere "aristocrat," "noble" (in the
social sense), is the root idea, out of which have necessarily
developed "good" in the sense of "with aristocratic soul," "noble,"
in the sense of "with a soul of high calibre," "with a privileged
soul"--a development which invariably runs parallel with that other
evolution by which "vulgar," "plebeian," "low," are made to change
finally into "bad." The most eloquent proof of this last contention
is the German word "_schlecht_" itself: this word is identical with
"_schlicht_"--(compare "_schlechtweg_" and "_schlechterdings_")--which,
originally and as yet without any sinister innuendo, simply denoted
the plebeian man in contrast to the aristocratic man. It is at the
sufficiently late period of the Thirty Years' War that this sense
becomes changed to the sense now current. From the standpoint of
the Genealogy of Morals this discovery seems to be substantial: the
lateness of it is to be attributed to the retarding influence exercised
in the modern world by democratic prejudice in the sphere of all
questions of origin. This extends, as will shortly be shown, even to
the province of natural science and physiology, which, _prima facie_
is the most objective. The extent of the mischief which is caused by
this prejudice (once it is free of all trammels except those of its own
malice), particularly to Ethics and History, is shown by the notorious
case of Buckle: it was in Buckle that that _plebeianism_ of the modern
spirit, which is of English origin, broke out once again from its
malignant soil with all the violence of a slimy volcano, and with that
salted, rampant, and vulgar eloquence with which up to the present time
all volcanoes have spoken.


5.

With regard to our problem, which can justly be called an intimate
problem, and which elects to appeal to only a limited number of ears:
it is of no small interest to ascertain that in those words and roots
which denote "good" we catch glimpses of that arch-trait, on the
strength of which the aristocrats feel themselves to be beings of
a higher order than their fellows. Indeed, they call themselves in
perhaps the most frequent instances simply after their superiority
in power (_e.g._ "the powerful," "the lords," "the commanders"), or
after the most obvious sign of their superiority, as for example
"the rich," "the possessors" (that is the meaning of _arya_; and the
Iranian and Slav languages correspond). But they also call themselves
after some _characteristic idiosyncrasy_; and this is the case which
now concerns us. They name themselves, for instance, "the truthful":
this is first done by the Greek nobility whose mouthpiece is found in
Theognis, the Megarian poet. The word ἐσθλος, which is coined for the
purpose, signifies etymologically "one who _is_," who has reality, who
is real, who is true; and then with a subjective twist, the "true,"
as the "truthful": at this stage in the evolution of the idea, it
becomes the motto and party cry of the nobility, and quite completes
the transition to the meaning "noble," so as to place outside the pale
the lying, vulgar man, as Theognis conceives and portrays him--till
finally the word after the decay of the nobility is left to delineate
psychological _noblesse_, and becomes as it were ripe and mellow. In
the word κακός as in δειλός (the plebeian in contrast to the ἀγαθός)
the cowardice is emphasised. This affords perhaps an inkling on what
lines the etymological origin of the very ambiguous ἀγαθός is to be
investigated. In the Latin _malus_ (which I place side by side with
μέλας) the vulgar man can be distinguished as the dark-coloured, and
above all as the black-haired ("_hic niger est_"), as the pre-Aryan
inhabitants of the Italian soil, whose complexion formed the clearest
feature of distinction from the dominant blondes, namely, the Aryan
conquering race:--at any rate Gaelic has afforded me the exact
analogue--_Fin_ (for instance, in the name Fin-Gal), the distinctive
word of the nobility, finally--good, noble, clean, but originally the
blonde-haired man in contrast to the dark black-haired aboriginals. The
Celts, if I may make a parenthetic statement, were throughout a blonde
race; and it is wrong to connect, as Virchow still connects, those
traces of an essentially dark-haired population which are to be seen
on the more elaborate ethnographical maps of Germany with any Celtic
ancestry or with any admixture of Celtic blood: in this context it is
rather the _pre-Aryan_ population of Germany which surges up to these
districts. (The same is true substantially of the whole of Europe: in
point of fact, the subject race has finally again obtained the upper
hand, in complexion and the shortness of the skull, and perhaps in
the intellectual and social qualities. Who can guarantee that modern
democracy, still more modern anarchy, and indeed that tendency to the
"Commune," the most primitive form of society, which is now common to
all the Socialists in Europe, does not in its real essence signify a
monstrous reversion--and that the conquering and _master_ race--the
Aryan race, is not also becoming inferior physiologically?) I believe
that I can explain the Latin _bonus_ as the "warrior": my hypothesis
is that I am right in deriving _bonus_ from an older _duonus_ (compare
_bellum_ = _duellum_ = _duen-lum_, in which the word _duonus_ appears
to me to be contained). Bonus accordingly as the man of discord, of
variance, "entzweiung" (_duo_), as the warrior: one sees what in
ancient Rome "the good" meant for a man. Must not our actual German
word _gut_ mean "_the godlike_, the man of godlike race"? and be
identical with the national name (originally the nobles' name) of the
_Goths_?

The grounds for this supposition do not appertain to this work.


6.

Above all, there is no exception (though there are opportunities for
exceptions) to this rule, that the idea of political superiority
always resolves itself into the idea of psychological superiority, in
those cases where the highest caste is at the same time the _priestly_
caste, and in accordance with its general characteristics confers on
itself the privilege of a title which alludes specifically to its
priestly function. It is in these cases, for instance, that "clean" and
"unclean" confront each other for the first time as badges of class
distinction; here again there develops a "good" and a "bad," in a sense
which has ceased to be merely social. Moreover, care should be taken
not to take these ideas of "clean" and "unclean" too seriously, too
broadly, or too symbolically: all the ideas of ancient man have, on
the contrary, got to be understood in their initial stages, in a sense
which is, to an almost inconceivable extent, crude, coarse, physical,
and narrow, and above all essentially unsymbolical. The "clean man" is
originally only a man who washes himself, who abstains from certain
foods which are conducive to skin diseases, who does not sleep with
the unclean women of the lower classes, who has a horror of blood--not
more, not much more! On the other hand, the very nature of a priestly
aristocracy shows the reasons why just at such an early juncture
there should ensue a really dangerous sharpening and intensification
of opposed values: it is, in fact, through these opposed values that
gulfs are cleft in the social plane, which a veritable Achilles of
free thought would shudder to cross. There is from the outset a
certain _diseased taint_ in such sacerdotal aristocracies, and in the
habits which prevail in such societies--habits which, _averse_ as they
are to action, constitute a compound of introspection and explosive
emotionalism, as a result of which there appears that introspective
morbidity and neurasthenia, which adheres almost inevitably to all
priests at all times: with regard, however, to the remedy which they
themselves have invented for this disease--the philosopher has no
option but to state, that it has proved itself in its effects a hundred
times more dangerous than the disease, from which it should have been
the deliverer. Humanity itself is still diseased from the effects of
the naïvetés of this priestly cure. Take, for instance, certain kinds
of diet (abstention from flesh), fasts, sexual continence, flight
into the wilderness (a kind of Weir-Mitchell isolation, though of
course without that system of excessive feeding and fattening which
is the most efficient antidote to all the hysteria of the ascetic
ideal); consider too the whole metaphysic of the priests, with its
war on the senses, its enervation, its hair-splitting; consider its
self-hypnotism on the fakir and Brahman principles (it uses Brahman as
a glass disc and obsession), and that climax which we can understand
only too well of an unusual satiety with its panacea of _nothingness_
(or God:--the demand for a _unio mystica_ with God is the demand of the
Buddhist for nothingness, Nirvana--and nothing else!). In sacerdotal
societies _every_ element is on a more dangerous scale, not merely
cures and remedies, but also pride, revenge, cunning, exaltation, love,
ambition, virtue, morbidity:--further, it can fairly be stated that it
is on the soil of this _essentially dangerous_ form of human society,
the sacerdotal form, that man really becomes for the first time an
_interesting animal_, that it is in this form that the soul of man has
in a higher sense attained _depths_ and become _evil_--and those are
the two fundamental forms of the superiority which up to the present
man has exhibited over every other animal.


7.

The reader will have already surmised with what ease the priestly mode
of valuation can branch off from the knightly aristocratic mode, and
then develop into the very antithesis of the latter: special impetus
is given to this opposition, by every occasion when the castes of the
priests and warriors confront each other with mutual jealousy and
cannot agree over the prize. The knightly-aristocratic "values" are
based on a careful cult of the physical, on a flowering, rich, and
even effervescing healthiness, that goes considerably beyond what
is necessary for maintaining life, on war, adventure, the chase,
the dance, the tourney--on everything, in fact, which is contained
in strong, free, and joyous action. The priestly-aristocratic mode
of valuation is--we have seen--based on other hypotheses: it is bad
enough for this class when it is a question of war! Yet the priests
are, as is notorious, _the worst enemies_--why? Because they are the
weakest. Their weakness causes their hate to expand into a monstrous
and sinister shape, a shape which is most crafty and most poisonous.
The really great haters in the history of the world have always been
priests, who are also the cleverest haters--in comparison with the
cleverness of priestly revenge, every other piece of cleverness is
practically negligible. Human history would be too fatuous for anything
were it not for the cleverness imported into it by the weak--take at
once the most important instance. All the world's efforts against the
"aristocrats," the "mighty," the "masters," the "holders of power,"
are negligible by comparison with what has been accomplished against
those classes by _the Jews_--the Jews, that priestly nation which
eventually realised that the one method of effecting satisfaction on
its enemies and tyrants was by means of a radical transvaluation of
values, which was at the same time an act of the _cleverest revenge_.
Yet the method was only appropriate to a nation of priests, to a nation
of the most jealously nursed priestly revengefulness. It was the Jews
who, in opposition to the aristocratic equation (good = aristocratic
= beautiful = happy = loved by the gods), dared with a terrifying
logic to suggest the contrary equation, and indeed to maintain with
the teeth of the most profound hatred (the hatred of weakness) this
contrary equation, namely, "the wretched are alone the good; the poor,
the weak, the lowly, are alone the good; the suffering, the needy, the
sick, the loathsome, are the only ones who are pious, the only ones
who are blessed, for them alone is salvation--but you, on the other
hand, you aristocrats, you men of power, you are to all eternity the
evil, the horrible, the covetous, the insatiate, the godless; eternally
also shall you be the unblessed, the cursed, the damned!" We know who
it was who reaped the heritage of this Jewish transvaluation. In the
context of the monstrous and inordinately fateful initiative which
the Jews have exhibited in connection with this most fundamental of
all declarations of war, I remember the passage which came to my pen
on another occasion (_Beyond Good and Evil_, Aph. 195)--that it was,
in fact, with the Jews that the _revolt of the slaves_ begins in the
sphere _of morals_; that revolt which has behind it a history of two
millennia, and which at the present day has only moved out of our
sight, because it--has achieved victory.


8.

But you understand this not? You have no eyes for a force which
has taken two thousand years to achieve victory?--There is nothing
wonderful in this: all _lengthy_ processes are hard to see and to
realise. But _this_ is what took place: from the trunk of that tree
of revenge and hate, Jewish hate,--that most profound and sublime
hate, which creates ideals and changes old values to new creations,
the like of which has never been on earth,--there grew a phenomenon
which was equally incomparable, _a new love_, the most profound and
sublime of all kinds of love;--and from what other trunk could it have
grown? But beware of supposing that this love has soared on its upward
growth, as in any way a real negation of that thirst for revenge, as
an antithesis to the Jewish hate! No, the contrary is the truth! This
love grew out of that hate, as its crown, as its triumphant crown,
circling wider and wider amid the clarity and fulness of the sun, and
pursuing in the very kingdom of light and height its goal of hatred,
its victory, its spoil, its strategy, with the same intensity with
which the roots of that tree of hate sank into everything which was
deep and evil with increasing stability and increasing desire. This
Jesus of Nazareth, the incarnate gospel of love, this "Redeemer"
bringing salvation and victory to the poor, the sick, the sinful--was
he not really temptation in its most sinister and irresistible form,
temptation to take the tortuous path to those very _Jewish_ values and
those very Jewish ideals? Has not Israel really obtained the final goal
of its sublime revenge, by the tortuous paths of this "Redeemer," for
all that he might pose as Israel's adversary and Israel's destroyer? Is
it not due to the black magic of a really _great_ policy of revenge,
of a far-seeing, burrowing revenge, both acting and calculating with
slowness, that Israel himself must repudiate before all the world the
actual instrument of his own revenge and nail it to the cross, so
that all the world--that is, all the enemies of Israel--could nibble
without suspicion at this very bait? Could, moreover, any human mind
with all its elaborate ingenuity invent a bait that was more truly
_dangerous_? Anything that was even equivalent in the power of its
seductive, intoxicating, defiling, and corrupting influence to that
symbol of the holy cross, to that awful paradox of a "god on the
cross," to that mystery of the unthinkable, supreme, and utter horror
of the self-crucifixion of a god for the _salvation of man_? It is
at least certain that _sub hoc signo_ Israel, with its revenge and
transvaluation of all values, has up to the present always triumphed
again over all other ideals, over all more aristocratic ideals.


9.

"But why do you talk of nobler ideals? Let us submit to the facts;
that the people have triumphed--or the slaves, or the populace, or the
herd, or whatever name you care to give them--if this has happened
through the Jews, so be it! In that case no nation ever had a greater
mission in the world's history. The 'masters' have been done away
with; the morality of the vulgar man has triumphed. This triumph may
also be called a blood-poisoning (it has mutually fused the races)--I
do not dispute it; but there is no doubt but that this intoxication
has succeeded. The 'redemption' of the human race (that is, from the
masters) is progressing swimmingly; everything is obviously becoming
Judaised, or Christianised, or vulgarised (what is there in the
words?). It seems impossible to stop the course of this poisoning
through the whole body politic of mankind--but its _tempo_ and pace
may from the present time be slower, more delicate, quieter, more
discreet--there is time enough. In view of this context has the Church
nowadays any necessary purpose? has it, in fact, a right to live? Or
could man get on without it? _Quæritur_. It seems that it fetters and
retards this tendency, instead of accelerating it. Well, even that
might be its utility. The Church certainly is a crude and boorish
institution, that is repugnant to an intelligence with any pretence at
delicacy, to a really modern taste. Should it not at any rate learn to
be somewhat more subtle? It alienates nowadays, more than it allures.
Which of us would, forsooth, be a freethinker if there were no Church?
It is the Church which repels us, not its poison--apart from the Church
we like the poison." This is the epilogue of a freethinker to my
discourse, of an honourable animal (as he has given abundant proof),
and a democrat to boot; he had up to that time listened to me, and
could not endure my silence, but for me, indeed, with regard to this
topic there is much on which to be silent.


10.

The revolt of the slaves in morals begins in the very principle of
_resentment_ becoming creative and giving birth to values--a resentment
experienced by creatures who, deprived as they are of the proper outlet
of action, are forced to find their compensation in an imaginary
revenge. While every aristocratic morality springs from a triumphant
affirmation of its own demands, the slave morality says "no" from the
very outset to what is "outside itself," "different from itself," and
"not itself": and this "no" is its creative deed. This volte-face of
the valuing standpoint--this _inevitable_ gravitation to the objective
instead of back to the subjective--is typical of "resentment": the
slave-morality requires as the condition of its existence an external
and objective world, to employ physiological terminology, it requires
objective stimuli to be capable of action at all--its action is
fundamentally a reaction. The contrary is the case when we come to
the aristocrat's system of values: it acts and grows spontaneously,
it merely seeks its antithesis in order to pronounce a more grateful
and exultant "yes" to its own self;--its negative conception, "low,"
"vulgar," "bad," is merely a pale late-born foil in comparison with its
positive and fundamental conception (saturated as it is with life and
passion), of "we aristocrats, we good ones, we beautiful ones, we happy
ones."

When the aristocratic morality goes astray and commits sacrilege on
reality, this is limited to that particular sphere with which it
is _not_ sufficiently acquainted--a sphere, in fact, from the real
knowledge of which it disdainfully defends itself. It misjudges, in
some cases, the sphere which it despises, the sphere of the common
vulgar man and the low people: on the other hand, due weight should be
given to the consideration that in any case the mood of contempt, of
disdain, of superciliousness, even on the supposition that it _falsely_
portrays the object of its contempt, will always be far removed from
that degree of falsity which will always characterise the attacks--in
effigy, of course--of the vindictive hatred and revengefulness of
the weak in onslaughts on their enemies. In point of fact, there is
in contempt too strong an admixture of nonchalance, of casualness,
of boredom, of impatience, even of personal exultation, for it to be
capable of distorting its victim into a real caricature or a real
monstrosity. Attention again should be paid to the almost benevolent
_nuances_ which, for instance, the Greek nobility imports into all
the words by which it distinguishes the common people from itself;
note how continuously a kind of pity, care, and consideration imparts
its honeyed _flavour_, until at last almost all the words which are
applied to the vulgar man survive finally as expressions for "unhappy,"
"worthy of pity" (compare δειλο, δείλαιος, πονηρός, μοχθηρός]; the
latter two names really denoting the vulgar man as labour-slave
and beast of burden)--and how, conversely, "bad," "low," "unhappy"
have never ceased to ring in the Greek ear with a tone in which
"unhappy" is the predominant note: this is a heritage of the old noble
aristocratic morality, which remains true to itself even in contempt
(let philologists remember the sense in which ὀιζυρός, ἄνολβος, τλήμων,
δυστυχεῑν, ξυμφορά used to be employed). The "well-born" simply
_felt_ themselves the "happy"; they did not have to manufacture their
happiness artificially through looking at their enemies, or in cases
to talk and _lie themselves_ into happiness (as is the custom with all
resentful men); and similarly, complete men as they were, exuberant
with strength, and consequently _necessarily_ energetic, they were too
wise to dissociate happiness from action--activity becomes in their
minds necessarily counted as happiness (that is the etymology of εὖ
πρἆττειν)--all in sharp contrast to the "happiness" of the weak and
the oppressed, with their festering venom and malignity, among whom
happiness appears essentially as a narcotic, a deadening, a quietude,
a peace, a "Sabbath," an enervation of the mind and relaxation
of the limbs,--in short, a purely _passive_ phenomenon. While the
aristocratic man lived in confidence and openness with himself
(gennaios, "noble-born," emphasises the nuance "sincere," and perhaps
also "naïf"), the resentful man, on the other hand, is neither sincere
nor naïf, nor honest and candid with himself. His soul _squints_; his
mind loves hidden crannies, tortuous paths and back-doors, everything
secret appeals to him as _his_ world, _his_ safety, _his_ balm; he is
past master in silence, in not forgetting, in waiting, in provisional
self-depreciation and self-abasement. A race of such _resentful_ men
will of necessity eventually prove more _prudent_ than any aristocratic
race, it will honour prudence on quite a distinct scale, as, in fact, a
paramount condition of existence, while prudence among aristocratic men
is apt to be tinged with a delicate flavour of luxury and refinement;
so among them it plays nothing like so integral a part as that complete
certainty of function of the governing _unconscious_ instincts, or
as indeed a certain lack of prudence, such as a vehement and valiant
charge, whether against danger or the enemy, or as those ecstatic
bursts of rage, love, reverence, gratitude, by which at all times
noble souls have recognised each other. When the resentment of the
aristocratic man manifests itself, it fulfils and exhausts itself in
an immediate reaction, and consequently instills no _venom_: on the
other hand, it never manifests itself at all in countless instances,
when in the case of the feeble and weak it would be inevitable. An
inability to take seriously for any length of time their enemies,
their disasters, their _misdeeds_--that is the sign of the full strong
natures who possess a superfluity of moulding plastic force, that
heals completely and produces forgetfulness: a good example of this in
the modern world is Mirabeau, who had no memory for any insults and
meannesses which were practised on him, and who was only incapable
of forgiving because he forgot. Such a man indeed shakes off with a
shrug many a worm which would have buried itself in another; it is
only in characters like these that we see the possibility (supposing,
of course, that there is such a possibility in the world) of the real
"_love_ of one's enemies." What respect for his enemies is found,
forsooth, in an aristocratic man--and such a reverence is already
a bridge to love! He insists on having his enemy to himself as his
distinction. He tolerates no other enemy but a man in whose character
there is nothing to despise and much to honour! On the other hand,
imagine the "enemy" as the resentful man conceives him--and it is here
exactly that we see his work, his creativeness; he has conceived "the
evil enemy," the "evil one," and indeed that is the root idea from
which he now evolves as a contrasting and corresponding figure a "good
one," himself--his very self!


11

The method of this man is quite contrary to that of the aristocratic
man, who conceives the root idea "good" spontaneously and straight
away, that is to say, out of himself, and from that material then
creates for himself a concept of "bad"! This "bad" of aristocratic
origin and that "evil" out of the cauldron of unsatisfied hatred--the
former an imitation, an "extra," an additional nuance; the latter,
on the other hand, the original, the beginning, the essential act in
the conception of a slave-morality--these two words "bad" and "evil,"
how great a difference do they mark, in spite of the fact that they
have an identical contrary in the idea "good." But the idea "good" is
not the same: much rather let the question be asked, "Who is really
evil according to the meaning of the morality of resentment?" In
all sternness let it be answered thus:--_just_ the good man of the
other morality, just the aristocrat, the powerful one, the one who
rules, but who is distorted by the venomous eye of resentfulness,
into a new colour, a new signification, a new appearance. This
particular point we would be the last to deny: the man who learnt to
know those "good" ones only as enemies, learnt at the same time not
to know them only as "_evil enemies_" and the same men who _inter
pares_ were kept so rigorously in bounds through convention, respect,
custom, and gratitude, though much more through mutual vigilance
and jealousy _inter pares_, these men who in their relations with
each other find so many new ways of manifesting consideration,
self-control, delicacy, loyalty, pride, and friendship, these men
are in reference to what is outside their circle (where the foreign
element, a _foreign_ country, begins), not much better than beasts
of prey, which have been let loose. They enjoy there freedom from
all social control, they feel that in the wilderness they can give
vent with impunity to that tension which is produced by enclosure and
imprisonment in the peace of society, they _revert_ to the innocence
of the beast-of-prey conscience, like jubilant monsters, who perhaps
come from a ghastly bout of murder, arson, rape, and torture, with
bravado and a moral equanimity, as though merely some wild student's
prank had been played, perfectly convinced that the poets have now an
ample theme to sing and celebrate. It is impossible not to recognise
at the core of all these aristocratic races the beast of prey; the
magnificent _blonde brute_, avidly rampant for spoil and victory;
this hidden core needed an outlet from time to time, the beast must
get loose again, must return into the wilderness--the Roman, Arabic,
German, and Japanese nobility, the Homeric heroes, the Scandinavian
Vikings, are all alike in this need. It is the aristocratic races who
have left the idea "Barbarian" on all the tracks in which they have
marched; nay, a consciousness of this very barbarianism, and even
a pride in it, manifests itself even in their highest civilisation
(for example, when Pericles says to his Athenians in that celebrated
funeral oration, "Our audacity has forced a way over every land and
sea, rearing everywhere imperishable memorials of itself for _good_
and for _evil_"). This audacity of aristocratic races, mad, absurd,
and spasmodic as may be its expression; the incalculable and fantastic
nature of their enterprises,Pericles sets in special relief and
glory the ᾽ραθυμία of the Athenians, their nonchalance and contempt for
safety, body, life, and comfort, their awful joy and intense delight
in all destruction, in all the ecstasies of victory and cruelty,--all
these features become crystallised, for those who suffered thereby
in the picture of the "barbarian," of the "evil enemy," perhaps of
the "Goth" and of the "Vandal." The profound, icy mistrust which
the German provokes, as soon as he arrives at power,--even at the
present time,--is always still an aftermath of that inextinguishable
horror with which for whole centuries Europe has regarded the wrath
of the blonde Teuton beast (although between the old Germans and
ourselves there exists scarcely a psychological, let alone a physical,
relationship). I have once called attention to the embarrassment of
Hesiod, when he conceived the series of social ages, and endeavoured
to express them in gold, silver, and bronze. He could only dispose
of the contradiction, with which he was confronted, by the Homeric
world, an age magnificent indeed, but at the same time so awful and
so violent, by making two ages out of one, which he henceforth placed
one behind each other--first, the age of the heroes and demigods, as
that world had remained in the memories of the aristocratic families,
who found therein their own ancestors; secondly, the bronze age, as
that corresponding age appeared to the descendants of the oppressed,
spoiled, ill-treated, exiled, enslaved; namely, as an age of bronze,
as I have said, hard, cold, terrible, without feelings and without
conscience, crushing everything, and bespattering everything with
blood. Granted the truth of the theory now believed to be true, that
the very _essence of all civilisation_ is to _train_ out of man, the
beast of prey, a tame and civilised animal, a domesticated animal,
it follows indubitably that we must regard as the real _tools of
civilisation_ all those instincts of reaction and resentment, by the
help of which the aristocratic races, together with their ideals,
were finally degraded and overpowered; though that has not yet come
to be synonymous with saying that the bearers of those tools also
_represented_ the civilisation. It is rather the contrary that is
not only probable--nay, it is _palpable_ to-day; these bearers of
vindictive instincts that have to be bottled up, these descendants of
all European and non-European slavery, especially of the pre-Aryan
population--these people, I say, represent the _decline_ of humanity!
These "tools of civilisation" are a disgrace to humanity, and
constitute in reality more of an argument against civilisation, more
of a reason why civilisation should be suspected. One may be perfectly
justified in being always afraid of the blonde beast that lies at
the core of all aristocratic races, and in being on one's guard: but
who would not a hundred times prefer to be afraid, when one at the
same time admires, than to be immune from fear, at the cost of being
perpetually obsessed with the loathsome spectacle of the distorted, the
dwarfed, the stunted, the envenomed? And is that not our fate? What
produces to-day our repulsion towards "man"?--for we _suffer_ from
"man," there is no doubt about it. It is not fear; it is rather that
we have nothing more to fear from men; it is that the worm "man" is in
the foreground and pullulates; it is that the "tame man," the wretched
mediocre and unedifying creature, has learnt to consider himself a goal
and a pinnacle, an inner meaning, an historic principle, a "higher
man"; yes, it is that he has a certain right so to consider himself,
in so far as he feels that in contrast to that excess of deformity,
disease, exhaustion, and effeteness whose odour is beginning to pollute
present-day Europe, he at any rate has achieved a relative success, he
at any rate still says "yes" to life.


12.

I cannot refrain at this juncture from uttering a sigh and one last
hope. What is it precisely which I find intolerable? That which I alone
cannot get rid of, which makes me choke and faint? Bad air! bad air!
That something misbegotten comes near me; that I must inhale the odour
of the entrails of a misbegotten soul!--That excepted, what can one
not endure in the way of need, privation, bad weather, sickness, toil,
solitude? In point of fact, one manages to get over everything, born
as one is to a burrowing and battling existence; one always returns
once again to the light, one always lives again one's golden hour of
victory--and then one stands as one was born, unbreakable, tense, ready
for something more difficult, for something more distant, like a bow
stretched but the tauter by every strain. But from time to time do ye
grant me--assuming that "beyond good and evil" there are goddesses who
can grant--one glimpse, grant me but one glimpse only, of something
perfect, fully realised, happy, mighty, triumphant, of something
that still gives cause for fear! A glimpse of a man that justifies
the existence of man, a glimpse of an incarnate human happiness that
realises and redeems, for the sake of which one may hold fast to _the
belief in man_! For the position is this: in the dwarfing and levelling
of the European man lurks _our_ greatest peril, for it is this outlook
which fatigues--we see to-day nothing which wishes to be greater, we
surmise that the process is always still backwards, still backwards
towards something more attenuated, more inoffensive, more cunning,
more comfortable, more mediocre, more indifferent, more Chinese, more
Christian--man, there is no doubt about it, grows always "better"
--the destiny of Europe lies even in this--that in losing the fear of
man, we have also lost the hope in man, yea, the will to be man. The
sight of man now fatigues.--What is present-day Nihilism if it is not
_that_?--We are tired of _man_.


13.

But let us come back to it; the problem of another origin of the
_good_--of the good, as the resentful man has thought it out--demands
its solution. It is not surprising that the lambs should bear a grudge
against the great birds of prey, but that is no reason for blaming the
great birds of prey for taking the little lambs. And when the lambs
say among themselves, "These birds of prey are evil, and he who is as
far removed from being a bird of prey, who is rather its opposite,
a lamb,--is he not good?" then there is nothing to cavil at in the
setting up of this ideal, though it may also be that the birds of prey
will regard it a little sneeringly, and perchance say to themselves,
"_We_ bear no grudge against them, these good lambs, we even like them:
nothing is tastier than a tender lamb." To require of strength that it
should not express itself as strength, that it should not be a wish to
overpower, a wish to overthrow, a wish to become master, a thirst for
enemies and antagonisms and triumphs, is just as absurd as to require
of weakness that it should express itself as strength. A quantum of
force is just such a quantum of movement, will, action--rather it
is nothing else than just those very phenomena of moving, willing,
acting, and can only appear otherwise in the misleading errors of
language (and the fundamental fallacies of reason which have become
petrified therein), which understands, and understands wrongly, all
working as conditioned by a worker, by a "subject." And just exactly
as the people separate the lightning from its flash, and interpret the
latter as a thing done, as the working of a subject which is called
lightning, so also does the popular morality separate strength from the
expression of strength, as though behind the strong man there existed
some indifferent neutral _substratum_, which enjoyed a _caprice and
option_ as to whether or not it should express strength. But there
is no such _substratum_, there is no "being" behind doing, working,
becoming; "the doer" is a mere appanage to the action. The action is
everything. In point of fact, the people duplicate the doing, when they
make the lightning lighten, that is a "doing-doing": they make the same
phenomenon first a cause, and then, secondly, the effect of that cause.
The scientists fail to improve matters when they say, "Force moves,
force causes," and so on. Our whole science is still, in spite of all
its coldness, of all its freedom from passion, a dupe of the tricks of
language, and has never succeeded in getting rid of that superstitious
changeling "the subject" (the atom, to give another instance, is such
a changeling, just as the Kantian "Thing-in-itself"). What wonder,
if the suppressed and stealthily simmering passions of revenge and
hatred exploit for their own advantage this belief, and indeed hold no
belief with a more steadfast enthusiasm than this--"that the strong
has the _option_ of being weak, and the bird of prey of being a lamb."
Thereby do they win for themselves the right of attributing to the
birds of prey the _responsibility_ for being birds of prey: when the
oppressed, down-trodden, and overpowered say to themselves with the
vindictive guile of weakness, "Let us be otherwise than the evil,
namely, good! and good is every one who does not oppress, who hurts
no one, who does not attack, who does not pay back, who hands over
revenge to God, who holds himself, as we do, in hiding; who goes out
of the way of evil, and demands, in short, little from life; like
ourselves the patient, the meek, the just,"--yet all this, in its cold
and unprejudiced interpretation, means nothing more than "once for
all, the weak are weak; it is good to do _nothing for which we are not
strong enough_"; but this dismal state of affairs, this prudence of the
lowest order, which even insects possess (which in a great danger are
fain to sham death so as to avoid doing "too much"), has, thanks to
the counterfeiting and self-deception of weakness, come to masquerade
in the pomp of an ascetic, mute, and expectant virtue, just as though
the _very_ weakness of the weak--that is, forsooth, its _being_, its
working, its whole unique inevitable inseparable reality--were a
voluntary result, something wished, chosen, a deed, an act of _merit_.
This kind of man finds the belief in a neutral, free-choosing "subject"
_necessary_ from an instinct of self-preservation, of self-assertion,
in which every lie is fain to sanctify itself. The subject (or, to
use popular language, the _soul_) has perhaps proved itself the best
dogma in the world simply because it rendered possible to the horde
of mortal, weak, and oppressed individuals of every kind, that most
sublime specimen of self-deception, the interpretation of weakness as
freedom, of being this, or being that, as _merit_.


14.

Will any one look a little into--right into--the mystery of how _ideals
are manufactured_ in this world? Who has the courage to do it? Come!

Here we have a vista opened into these grimy workshops. Wait just a
moment, dear Mr. Inquisitive and Foolhardy; your eye must first grow
accustomed to this false changing light--Yes! Enough! Now speak! What
is happening below down yonder? Speak out that what you see, man of the
most dangerous curiosity--for now _I_ am the listener.

"I see nothing, I hear the more. It is a cautious, spiteful, gentle
whispering and muttering together in all the corners and crannies. It
seems to me that they are lying; a sugary softness adheres to every
sound. Weakness is turned to _merit_, there is no doubt about it--it is
just as you say."

Further!

"And the impotence which requites not, is turned to 'goodness,' craven
baseness to meekness, submission to those whom one hates, to obedience
(namely, obedience to one of whom they say that he ordered this
submission--they call him God). The inoffensive character of the weak,
the very cowardice in which he is rich, his standing at the door, his
forced necessity of waiting, gain here fine names, such as 'patience,'
which is also called 'virtue'; not being able to avenge one's self, is
called not wishing to avenge one's self, perhaps even forgiveness (for
_they_ know not what they do--we alone know what _they_ do). They also
talk of the 'love of their enemies' and sweat thereby."

Further!

"They are miserable, there is no doubt about it, all these whisperers
and counterfeiters in the corners, although they try to get warm by
crouching close to each other, but they tell me that their misery is
a favour and distinction given to them by God, just as one beats the
dogs one likes best; that perhaps this misery is also a preparation, a
probation, a training; that perhaps it is still more something which
will one day be compensated and paid back with a tremendous interest in
gold, nay in happiness. This they call 'Blessedness.'"

Further!

"They are now giving me to understand, that not only are they better
men than the mighty, the lords of the earth, whose spittle they have
got to lick (not out of fear, not at all out of fear! But because
God ordains that one should honour all authority)--not only are they
better men, but that they also have a 'better time,' at any rate,
will one day have a 'better time.' But enough! Enough! I can endure
it no longer. Bad air! Bad air! These workshops _where ideals are
manufactured_--verily they reek with the crassest lies."

Nay. Just one minute! You are saying nothing about the masterpieces
of these virtuosos of black magic, who can produce whiteness, milk,
and innocence out of any black you like: have you not noticed what a
pitch of refinement is attained by their _chef d'œuvre_, their most
audacious, subtle, ingenious, and lying artist-trick? Take care! These
cellar-beasts, full of revenge and hate--what do they make, forsooth,
out of their revenge and hate? Do you hear these words? Would you
suspect, if you trusted only their words, that you are among men of
resentment and nothing else?

"I understand, I prick my ears up again (ah! ah! ah! and I hold my
nose). Now do I hear for the first time that which they have said so
often: 'We good, _we are the righteous_'--what they demand they call
not revenge but 'the triumph of _righteousness_'; what they hate is
not their enemy, no, they hate 'unrighteousness,' 'godlessness'; what
they believe in and hope is not the hope of revenge, the intoxication
of sweet revenge (--"sweeter than honey," did Homer call it?), but the
victory of God, of the _righteous_ _God_ over the 'godless'; what is
left for them to love in this world is not _their_ brothers in hate,
but their 'brothers in love,' as they say, all the good and righteous
on the earth."

And how do they name that which serves them as a solace against all
the troubles of life--their phantasmagoria of their anticipated future
blessedness?

"How? Do I hear right? They call it 'the last judgment,' the advent of
their kingdom, 'the kingdom of God'--but _in the meanwhile_ they live
'in faith,' 'in love,' 'in hope.'"

Enough! Enough!


15.

In the faith in what? In the love for what? In the hope of what? These
weaklings!--they also, forsooth, wish to be the strong some time; there
is no doubt about it, some time _their_ kingdom also must come--"the
kingdom of God" is their name for it, as has been mentioned: they are
so meek in everything! Yet in order to experience _that_ kingdom it
is necessary to live long, to live beyond death,--yes, _eternal_ life
is necessary so that one can make up for ever for that earthly life
"in faith," "in love," "in hope." Make up for what? Make up by what?
Dante, as it seems to me, made a crass mistake when with awe-inspiring
ingenuity he placed that inscription over the gate of his hell, "Me too
made eternal love": at any rate the following inscription would have
a much better right to stand over the gate of the Christian Paradise
and its "eternal blessedness"--"Me too made eternal hate"--granted
of course that a truth may rightly stand over the gate to a lie! For
what is the blessedness of that Paradise? Possibly we could quickly
surmise it; but it is better that it should be explicitly attested by
an authority who in such matters is not to be disparaged, Thomas of
Aquinas, the great teacher and saint. "_Beati in regno celesti_" says
he, as gently as a lamb, "_videbunt pœnas damnatorum, ut beatitudo
illis magis complaceat_." Or if we wish to hear a stronger tone, a word
from the mouth of a triumphant father of the Church, who warned his
disciples against the cruel ecstasies of the public spectacles--But
why? Faith offers us much more,--says he, _de Spectac._, c. 29
ss.,--something much stronger; thanks to the redemption, joys of quite
another kind stand at our disposal; instead of athletes we have our
martyrs; we wish for blood, well, we have the blood of Christ--but
what then awaits us on the day of his return, of his triumph. And
then does he proceed, does this enraptured visionary: "_at enim
supersunt alia spectacula, ille ultimas et perpetuus judicii dies, ille
nationibus insperatus, ille derisus, cum tanta sæculi vetustas et tot
ejus nativitates uno igne haurientur. Quæ tunc spectaculi latitudo!
Quid admirer! quid rideam! Ubigaudeam! Ubi exultem, spectans tot et
tantos reges, qui in cœlum recepti nuntiabantur, cum ipso Jove et ipsis
suis testibus in imis tenebris congemescentes! Item præsides_" (the
provincial governors) "_persecutores dominici nominis sævioribus quam
ipsi flammis sævierunt insultantibus contra Christianos liquescentes!
Quos præterea sapientes illos philosophos coram discipulis suis una
conflagrantibus erubescentes, quibus nihil ad deum pertinere suadebant,
quibus animas aut nullas aut non in pristina corpora redituras
affirmabant! Etiam poetas non ad Rhadamanti nec ad Minois, sed ad
inopinati Christi tribunal palpitantes! Tunc magis tragœdi audiendi,
magis scilicet vocales_" (with louder tones and more violent shrieks)
"_in sua propria calamitate; tunc histriones cognoscendi, solutiores
multo per ignem; tunc spectandus auriga in flammea rota totus rubens,
tunc xystici contemplandi non in gymnasiis, sed in igne jaculati, nisi
quod ne tunc quidem illos velim vivos, ut qui malim ad eos potius
conspectum insatiabilem conferre, qui in dominum scevierunt. Hic est
ille, dicam fabri aut quæstuariæ filius_" (as is shown by the whole of
the following, and in particular by this well-known description of the
mother of Jesus from the Talmud, Tertullian is henceforth referring to
the Jews), "_sabbati destructor, Samarites et dæmonium habens. Hic est
quem a Juda redemistis, hic est ille arundine et colaphis diverberatus,
sputamentis de decoratus, felle et acete potatus. Hic est, quem
clam discentes subripuerunt, ut resurrexisse dicatur vel hortulanus
detraxit, ne lactucæ suæ frequentia commeantium laderentur. Ut talia
species, ut talibus exultes, quis tibi prætor aut consul aut sacerdos
de sua liberalitate prastabit? Et tamen hæc jam habemus quodammodo per
fidem spiritu imaginante repræsentata. Ceterum qualia illa sunt, quæ
nec oculus vidit nec auris audivit nec in cor hominis ascenderunt?_" (I
Cor. ii. 9.) "_Credo circo et utraque cavea_" (first and fourth row,
or, according to others, the comic and the tragic stage) "_et omni
studio gratiora._" _Per fidem_: so stands it written.


16.

Let us come to a conclusion. The two _opposing values_, "good and bad,"
"good and evil," have fought a dreadful, thousand-year fight in the
world, and though indubitably the second value has been for a long time
in the preponderance, there are not wanting places where the fortune
of the fight is still undecisive. It can almost be said that in the
meanwhile the fight reaches a higher and higher level, and that in the
meanwhile it has become more and more intense, and always more and more
psychological; so that nowadays there is perhaps no more decisive mark
of the _higher nature_, of the more psychological nature, than to be in
that sense self-contradictory, and to be actually still a battleground
for those two opposites. The symbol of this fight, written in a writing
which has remained worthy of perusal throughout the course of history
up to the present time, is called "Rome against Judæa, Judæa against
Rome." Hitherto there has been no greater event than _that_ fight,
the putting of _that_ question, _that_ deadly antagonism. Rome found
in the Jew the incarnation of the unnatural, as though it were its
diametrically opposed monstrosity, and in Rome the Jew was held to
be _convicted of hatred_ of the whole human race: and rightly so, in
so far as it is right to link the well-being and the future of the
human race to the unconditional mastery of the aristocratic values, of
the Roman values. What, conversely, did the Jews feel against Rome?
One can surmise it from a thousand symptoms, but it is sufficient to
carry one's mind back to the Johannian Apocalypse, that most obscene
of all the written outbursts, which has revenge on its conscience.
(One should also appraise at its full value the profound logic of the
Christian instinct, when over this very book of hate it wrote the name
of the Disciple of Love, that self-same disciple to whom it attributed
that impassioned and ecstatic Gospel--therein lurks a portion of
truth, however much literary forging may have been necessary for
this purpose.) The Romans were the strong and aristocratic; a nation
stronger and more aristocratic has never existed in the world, has
never even been dreamed of; every relic of them, every inscription
enraptures, granted that one can divine _what_ it is that writes the
inscription. The Jews, conversely, were that priestly nation of
resentment par excellence, possessed by a unique genius for popular
morals: just compare with the Jews the nations with analogous gifts,
such as the Chinese or the Germans, so as to realise afterwards what is
first rate, and what is fifth rate.

Which of them has been provisionally victorious, Rome or Judæa? but
there is not a shadow of doubt; just consider to whom in Rome itself
nowadays you bow down, as though before the quintessence of all the
highest values--and not only in Rome, but almost over half the world,
everywhere where man has been tamed or is about to be tamed--to _three
Jews_, as we know, and _one Jewess_ (to Jesus of Nazareth, to Peter
the fisher, to Paul the tent-maker, and to the mother of the aforesaid
Jesus, named Mary). This is very remarkable: Rome is undoubtedly
defeated. At any rate there took place in the Renaissance a brilliantly
sinister revival of the classical ideal, of the aristocratic valuation
of all things: Rome herself, like a man waking up from a trance,
stirred beneath the burden of the new Judaised Rome that had been built
over her, which presented the appearance of an œcumenical synagogue
and was called the "Church": but immediately Judæa triumphed again,
thanks to that fundamentally popular (German and English) movement
of revenge, which is called the Reformation, and taking also into
account its inevitable corollary, the restoration of the Church--the
restoration also of the ancient graveyard peace of classical Rome.
Judæa proved yet once more victorious over the classical ideal in the
French Revolution, and in a sense which was even more crucial and even
more profound: the last political aristocracy that existed in Europe,
that of the _French_ seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, broke into
pieces beneath the instincts of a resentful populace--never had the
world heard a greater jubilation, a more uproarious enthusiasm: indeed,
there took place in the midst of it the most monstrous and unexpected
phenomenon; the ancient ideal _itself_ swept before the eyes and
conscience of humanity with all its life and with unheard-of splendour,
and in opposition to resentment's lying war-cry of _the prerogative
of the most_, in opposition to the will to lowliness, abasement, and
equalisation, the will to a retrogression and twilight of humanity,
there rang out once again, stronger, simpler, more penetrating than
ever, the terrible and enchanting counter-warcry of _the prerogative of
the few_! Like a final signpost to other ways, there appeared Napoleon,
the most unique and violent anachronism that ever existed, and in him
the incarnate problem _of the aristocratic ideal in itself_--consider
well what a problem it is:--Napoleon, that synthesis of Monster and
Superman.


17.

Was it therewith over? Was that greatest of all antitheses of ideals
thereby relegated _ad acta_ for all time? Or only postponed, postponed
for a long time? May there not take place at some time or other a
much more awful, much more carefully prepared flaring up of the old
conflagration? Further! Should not one wish _that_ consummation with
all one's strength?--will it one's self? demand it one's self? He who
at this juncture begins, like my readers, to reflect, to think further,
will have difficulty in coming quickly to a conclusion,--ground enough
for me to come myself to a conclusion, taking it for granted that for
some time past what I mean has been sufficiently clear, what I exactly
_mean_ by that dangerous motto which is inscribed on the body of my
last book: _Beyond Good and Evil_--at any rate that is not the same as
"Beyond Good and Bad."


Note.--I avail myself of the opportunity offered by this treatise to
express, openly and formally, a wish which up to the present has only
been expressed in occasional conversations with scholars, namely,
that some Faculty of philosophy should, by means of a series of prize
essays, gain the glory of having promoted the further study of the
_history of morals_--perhaps this book may serve to give forcible
impetus in such a direction. With regard to a possibility of this
character, the following question deserves consideration. It merits
quite as much the attention of philologists and historians as of actual
professional philosophers.

"_What indication of the history of the evolution of the moral ideas is
afforded by philology, and especially by etymological investigation?_"

On the other hand, it is of course equally necessary to induce
physiologists and doctors to be interested in these problems (_of the
value of the valuations_ which have prevailed up to the present): in
this connection the professional philosophers may be trusted to act
as the spokesmen and intermediaries in these particular instances,
after, of course, they have quite succeeded in transforming the
relationship between philosophy and physiology and medicine, which
is originally one of coldness and suspicion, into the most friendly
and fruitful reciprocity. In point of fact, all tables of values,
all the "thou shalts" known to history and ethnology, need primarily
a _physiological_, at any rate in preference to a psychological,
elucidation and interpretation; all equally require a critique from
medical science. The question, "What is the _value_ of this or that
table of 'values' and morality?" will be asked from the most varied
standpoints. For instance, the question of "valuable _for what_" can
never be analysed with sufficient nicety. That, for instance, which
would evidently have value with regard to promoting in a race the
greatest possible powers of endurance (or with regard to increasing its
adaptability to a specific climate, or with regard to the preservation
of the greatest number) would have nothing like the same value, if it
were a question of evolving a stronger species. In gauging values,
the good of the majority and the good of the minority are opposed
standpoints: we leave it to the naïveté of English biologists to regard
the former standpoint as _intrinsically_ superior. _All_ the sciences
have now to pave the way for the future task of the philosopher; this
task being understood to mean, that he must solve the problem of
_value_, that he has to fix the _hierarchy of values_.




SECOND ESSAY. "GUILT," "BAD CONSCIENCE," AND THE LIKE.


1.

The breeding of an animal that _can promise_--is not this just that
very paradox of a task which nature has set itself in regard to man? Is
not this the very problem of man? The fact that this problem has been
to a great extent solved, must appear all the more phenomenal to one
who can estimate at its full value that force of _forgetfulness_ which
works in opposition to it. Forgetfulness is no mere _vis inertiæ_,
as the superficial believe, rather is it a power of obstruction,
active and, in the strictest sense of the word, positive--a power
responsible for the fact that what we have lived, experienced, taken
into ourselves, no more enters into consciousness during the process
of digestion (it might be called psychic absorption) than all the
whole manifold process by which our physical nutrition, the so-called
"incorporation," is carried on. The temporary shutting of the doors
and windows of consciousness, the relief from the clamant alarums and
excursions, with which our subconscious world of servant organs works
in mutual co-operation and antagonism; a little quietude, a little
_tabula rasa_ of the consciousness, so as to make room again for the
new, and above all for the more noble functions and functionaries, room
for government, foresight, predetermination (for our organism is on an
oligarchic model)--this is the utility, as I have said, of the active
forgetfulness, which is a very sentinel and nurse of psychic order,
repose, etiquette; and this shows at once why it is that there can
exist no happiness, no gladness, no hope, no pride, no real _present_,
without forgetfulness. The man in whom this preventative apparatus is
damaged and discarded, is to be compared to a dyspeptic, and it is
something more than a comparison--he can "get rid of" nothing. But
this very animal who finds it necessary to be forgetful, in whom, in
fact, forgetfulness represents a force and a form of _robust_ health,
has reared for himself an opposition-power, a memory, with whose help
forgetfulness is, in certain instances, kept in check--in the cases,
namely, where promises have to be made;--so that it is by no means
a mere passive inability to get rid of a once indented impression,
not merely the indigestion occasioned by a once pledged word, which
one cannot dispose of, but an _active_ refusal to get rid of it, a
continuing and a wish to continue what has once been willed, an actual
_memory of the will_; so that between the original "I will," "I shall
do," and the actual discharge of the will, its act, we can easily
interpose a world of new strange phenomena, circumstances, veritable
volitions, without the snapping of this long chain of the will. But
what is the underlying hypothesis of all this? How thoroughly, in order
to be able to regulate the future in this way, must man have first
learnt to distinguish between necessitated and accidental phenomena, to
think causally, to see the distant as present and to anticipate it, to
fix with certainty what is the end, and what is the means to that end;
above all, to reckon, to have power to calculate--how thoroughly must
man have first become _calculable, disciplined, necessitated_ even for
himself and his own conception of himself, that, like a man entering
into a promise, he could guarantee himself _as a future_.


2.

This is simply the long history of the origin of _responsibility_.
That task of breeding an animal which can make promises, includes, as
we have already grasped, as its condition and preliminary, the more
immediate task of first _making_ man to a certain extent, necessitated,
uniform, like among his like, regular, and consequently calculable. The
immense work of what I have called, "morality of custom"[1] (cp. _Dawn
of Day_, Aphs. 9, 14, and 16), the actual work of man on himself during
the longest period of the human race, his whole prehistoric work,
finds its meaning, its great justification (in spite of all its innate
hardness, despotism, stupidity, and idiocy) in this fact: man, with
the help of the morality of customs and of social strait-waistcoats,
was _made_ genuinely calculable. If, however, we place ourselves at
the end of this colossal process, at the point where the tree finally
matures its fruits, when society and its morality of custom finally
bring to light that to which it was only the means, then do we find as
the ripest fruit on its tree the _sovereign individual_, that resembles
only himself, that has got loose from the morality of custom, the
autonomous "super-moral" individual (for "autonomous" and "moral" are
mutually-exclusive terms),--in short, the man of the personal, long,
and independent will, _competent to promise_, and we find in him a
proud consciousness (vibrating in every fibre), of _what_ has been at
last achieved and become vivified in him, a genuine consciousness of
power and freedom, a feeling of human perfection in general. And this
man who has grown to freedom, who is really _competent_ to promise,
this lord of the _free_ will, this sovereign--how is it possible for
him not to know how great is his superiority over everything incapable
of binding itself by promises, or of being its own security, how great
is the trust, the awe, the reverence that he awakes--he "deserves"
all three--not to know that with this mastery over himself he is
necessarily also given the mastery over circumstances, over nature,
over all creatures with shorter wills, less reliable characters?
The "free" man, the owner of a long unbreakable will, finds in this
possession his _standard of value_: looking out from himself upon
the others, he honours or he despises, and just as necessarily as he
honours his peers, the strong and the reliable (those who can bind
themselves by promises),--that is, every one who promises like a
sovereign, with difficulty, rarely and slowly, who is sparing with his
trusts but confers _honour_ by the very fact of trusting, who gives
his word as something that can be relied on, because he knows himself
strong enough to keep it even in the teeth of disasters, even in the
"teeth of fate,"--so with equal necessity will he have the heel of his
foot ready for the lean and empty jackasses, who promise when they have
no business to do so, and his rod of chastisement ready for the liar,
who already breaks his word at the very minute when it is on his lips.
The proud knowledge of the extraordinary privilege of _responsibility_,
the consciousness of this rare freedom, of this power over himself and
over fate, has sunk right down to his innermost depths, and has become
an instinct, a dominating instinct--what name will he give to it, to
this dominating instinct, if he needs to have a word for it? But there
is no doubt about it--the sovereign man calls it his _conscience_.


3.

His conscience?--One apprehends at once that the idea "conscience,"
which is here seen in its supreme manifestation, supreme in fact to
almost the point of strangeness, should already have behind it a long
history and evolution. The ability to guarantee one's self with all
due pride, and also at the same time to _say yes_ to one's self--that
is, as has been said, a ripe fruit, but also a _late_ fruit:--How long
must needs this fruit hang sour and bitter on the tree! And for an even
longer period there was not a glimpse of such a fruit to to be had--no
one had taken it on himself to promise it, although everything on the
tree was quite ready for it, and everything was maturing for that very
consummation. "How is a memory to be made for the man-animal? How is an
impression to be so deeply fixed upon this ephemeral understanding,
half dense, and half silly, upon this incarnate forgetfulness, that
it will be permanently present?" As one may imagine, this primeval
problem was not solved by exactly gentle answers and gentle means;
perhaps there is nothing more awful and more sinister in the early
history of man than his _system of mnemonics_. "Something is burnt in
so as to remain in his memory: only that which never stops _hurting_
remains in his memory." This is an axiom of the oldest (unfortunately
also the longest) psychology in the world. It might even be said that
wherever solemnity, seriousness, mystery, and gloomy colours are now
found in the life of the men and of nations of the world, there is some
_survival_ of that horror which was once the universal concomitant of
all promises, pledges, and obligations. The past, the past with all
its length, depth, and hardness, wafts to us its breath, and bubbles
up in us again, when we become "serious." When man thinks it necessary
to make for himself a memory, he never accomplishes it without blood,
tortures, and sacrifice; the most dreadful sacrifices and forfeitures
(among them the sacrifice of the first-born), the most loathsome
mutilation (for instance, castration), the most cruel rituals of all
the religious cults (for all religions are really at bottom systems
of cruelty)--all these things originate from that instinct which
found in pain its most potent mnemonic. In a certain sense the whole
of asceticism is to be ascribed to this: certain ideas have got to
be made inextinguishable, omnipresent, "fixed," with the object of
hypnotising the whole nervous and intellectual system through these
"fixed ideas"--and the ascetic methods and modes of life are the means
of freeing those ideas from the competition of all other ideas so as to
make them "unforgettable." The worse memory man had, the ghastlier the
signs presented by his customs; the severity of the penal laws affords
in particular a gauge of the extent of man's difficulty in conquering
forgetfulness, and in keeping a few primal postulates of social
intercourse ever present to the minds of those who were the slaves
of every momentary emotion and every momentary desire. We Germans do
certainly not regard ourselves as an especially cruel and hard-hearted
nation, still less as an especially casual and happy-go-lucky one;
but one has only to look at our old penal ordinances in order to
realise what a lot of trouble it takes in the world to evolve a
"nation of thinkers" (I mean: _the_ European nation which exhibits at
this very day the maximum of reliability, seriousness, bad taste, and
positiveness, which has on the strength of these qualities a right to
train every kind of European mandarin). These Germans employed terrible
means to make for themselves a memory, to enable them to master their
rooted plebeian instincts and the brutal crudity of those instincts:
think of the old German punishments, for instance, stoning (as far back
as the legend, the millstone falls on the head of the guilty man),
breaking on the wheel (the most original invention and speciality of
the German genius in the sphere of punishment), dart-throwing, tearing,
or trampling by horses ("quartering"), boiling the criminal in oil or
wine (still prevalent in the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries), the
highly popular flaying ("slicing into strips"), cutting the flesh out
of the breast; think also of the evil-doer being besmeared with honey,
and then exposed to the flies in a blazing sun. It was by the help of
such images and precedents that man eventually kept in his memory five
or six "I will nots" with regard to which he had already given his
_promise_, so as to be able to enjoy the advantages of society--and
verily with the help of this kind of memory man eventually attained
"reason"! Alas! reason, seriousness, mastery over the emotions, all
these gloomy, dismal things which are called reflection, all these
privileges and pageantries of humanity: how dear is the price that they
have exacted! How much blood and cruelty is the foundation of all "good
things"!


4.

But how is it that that other melancholy object, the consciousness of
sin, the whole "bad conscience," came into the world? And it is here
that we turn back to our genealogists of morals. For the second time
I say--or have I not said it yet?--that they are worth nothing. Just
their own five-spans-long limited modern experience; no knowledge of
the past, and no wish to know it; still less a historic instinct, a
power of "second sight" (which is what is really required in this
case)--and despite this to go in for the history of morals. It stands
to reason that this must needs produce results which are removed from
the truth by something more than a respectful distance.

Have these current genealogists of morals ever allowed themselves to
have even the vaguest notion, for instance, that the cardinal moral
idea of "ought"[2] originates from the very material idea of "owe"? Or
that punishment developed as a retaliation absolutely independently
of any preliminary hypothesis of the freedom or determination of the
will?--And this to such an extent, that a high degree of civilisation
was always first necessary for the animal man to begin to make those
much more primitive distinctions of "intentional," "negligent,"
"accidental," "responsible," and their contraries, and apply them
in the assessing of punishment. That idea--"the wrong-doer deserves
punishment _because_ he might have acted otherwise," in spite of the
fact that it is nowadays so cheap, obvious, natural, and inevitable,
and that it has had to serve as an illustration of the way in which
the sentiment of justice appeared on earth, is in point of fact
an exceedingly late, and even refined form of human judgment and
inference; the placing of this idea back at the beginning of the world
is simply a clumsy violation of the principles of primitive psychology.
Throughout the longest period of human history punishment was _never_
based on the responsibility of the evil-doer for his action, and was
consequently not based on the hypothesis that only the guilty should
be punished;--on the contrary, punishment was inflicted in those days
for the same reason that parents punish their children even nowadays,
out of anger at an injury that they have suffered, an anger which vents
itself mechanically on the author of the injury--but this anger is kept
in bounds and modified through the idea that every injury has somewhere
or other its _equivalent_ price, and can really be paid off, even
though it be by means of pain to the author. Whence is it that this
ancient deep-rooted and now perhaps ineradicable idea has drawn its
strength, this idea of an equivalency between injury and pain? I have
already revealed its origin, in the contractual relationship between
_creditor_ and _ower_, that is as old as the existence of legal rights
at all, and in its turn points back to the primary forms of purchase,
sale, barter, and trade.


5.

The realisation of these contractual relations excites, of course (as
would be already expected from our previous observations), a great
deal of suspicion and opposition towards the primitive society which
made or sanctioned them. In this society promises will be made; in
this society the object is to provide the promiser with a memory;
in this society, so may we suspect, there will be full scope for
hardness, cruelty, and pain: the "ower," in order to induce credit
in his promise of repayment, in order to give a guarantee of the
earnestness and sanctity of his promise, in order to drill into his
own conscience the duty, the solemn duty, of repayment, will, by
virtue of a contract with his creditor to meet the contingency of
his not paying, pledge something that he still possesses, something
that he still has in his power, for instance, his life or his wife,
or his freedom or his body (or under certain religious conditions
even his salvation, his soul's welfare, even his peace in the grave;
so in Egypt, where the corpse of the ower found even in the grave no
rest from the creditor--of course, from the Egyptian standpoint, this
peace was a matter of particular importance). But especially has the
creditor the power of inflicting on the body of the ower all kinds of
pain and torture--the power, for instance, of cutting off from it an
amount that appeared proportionate to the greatness of the debt;--this
point of view resulted in the universal prevalence at an early date of
precise schemes of valuation, frequently horrible in the minuteness
and meticulosity of their application, _legally_ sanctioned schemes of
valuation for individual limbs and parts of the body. I consider it as
already a progress, as a proof of a freer, less petty, and more Roman
conception of law, when the Roman Code of the Twelve Tables decreed
that it was immaterial how much or how little the creditors in such a
contingency cut off, "si plus minusve secuerunt, ne fraude esto." Let
us make the logic of the whole of this equalisation process clear; it
is strange enough. The equivalence consists in this: instead of an
advantage directly compensatory of his injury (that is, instead of an
equalisation in money, lands, or some kind of chattel), the creditor
is granted by way of repayment and compensation a certain _sensation
of satisfaction_--the satisfaction of being able to vent, without any
trouble, his power on one who is powerless, the delight "_de faire le
mal pour le plaisir de le faire_," the joy in sheer violence: and this
joy will be relished in proportion to the lowness and humbleness of
the creditor in the social scale, and is quite apt to have the effect
of the most delicious dainty, and even seem the foretaste of a higher
social position. Thanks to the punishment of the "ower," the creditor
participates in the rights of the masters. At last he too, for once in
a way, attains the edifying consciousness of being able to despise and
ill-treat a creature--as an "inferior"--or at any rate of _seeing_ him
being despised and ill-treated, in case the actual power of punishment,
the administration of punishment, has already become transferred to the
"authorities." The compensation consequently consists in a claim on
cruelty and a right to draw thereon.


6.

It is then in _this_ sphere of the law of contract that we find the
cradle of the whole moral world of the ideas of "guilt," "conscience,"
"duty," the "sacredness of duty,"--their commencement, like the
commencement of all great things in the world, is thoroughly and
continuously saturated with blood. And should we not add that this
world has never really lost a certain savour of blood and torture (not
even in old Kant; the categorical imperative reeks of cruelty). It was
in this sphere likewise that there first became formed that sinister
and perhaps now indissoluble association of the ideas of "guilt" and
"suffering." To put the question yet again, why can suffering be a
compensation for "owing"?--Because the _infliction_ of suffering
produces the highest degree of happiness, because the injured party
will get in exchange for his loss (including his vexation at his loss)
an extraordinary counter-pleasure: the _infliction_ of suffering--a
real _feast_, something that, as I have said, was all the more
appreciated the greater the paradox created by the rank and social
status of the creditor. These observations are purely conjectural; for,
apart from the painful nature of the task, it is hard to plumb such
profound depths: the clumsy introduction of the idea of "revenge" as a
connecting-link simply hides and obscures the view instead of rendering
it clearer (revenge itself simply leads back again to the identical
problem--"How can the infliction of suffering be a satisfaction?").
In my opinion it is repugnant to the delicacy, and still more to the
hypocrisy of tame domestic animals (that is, modern men; that is,
ourselves), to realise with all their energy the extent to which
_cruelty_ constituted the great joy and delight of ancient man, was
an ingredient which seasoned nearly all his pleasures, and conversely
the extent of the naïveté and innocence with which he manifested his
need for cruelty, when he actually made as a matter of principle
"disinterested malice" (or, to use Spinoza's expression, the _sympathia
malevolens_) into a _normal_ characteristic of man--as consequently
something to which the conscience says a hearty yes. The more profound
observer has perhaps already had sufficient opportunity for noticing
this most ancient and radical joy and delight of mankind; in _Beyond
Good and Evil_, Aph. 188 (and even earlier, in _The Dawn of Day_, Aphs.
18, 77, 113), I have cautiously indicated the continually growing
spiritualisation and "deification" of cruelty, which pervades the
whole history of the higher civilisation (and in the larger sense even
constitutes it). At any rate the time is not so long past when it was
impossible to conceive of royal weddings and national festivals on a
grand scale, without executions, tortures, or perhaps an _auto-da-fé_",
or similarly to conceive of an aristocratic household, without a
creature to serve as a butt for the cruel and malicious baiting of the
inmates. (The reader will perhaps remember Don Quixote at the court of
the Duchess: we read nowadays the whole of _Don Quixote_ with a bitter
taste in the mouth, almost with a sensation of torture, a fact which
would appear very strange and very incomprehensible to the author and
his contemporaries--they read it with the best conscience in the world
as the gayest of books; they almost died with laughing at it.) The
sight of suffering does one good, the infliction of suffering does one
more good--this is a hard maxim, but none the less a fundamental maxim,
old, powerful, and "human, all-too-human"; one, moreover, to which
perhaps even the apes as well would subscribe: for it is said that in
inventing bizarre cruelties they are giving abundant proof of their
future humanity, to which, as it were, they are playing the prelude.
Without cruelty, no feast: so teaches the oldest and longest history of
man--and in punishment too is there so much of the festive.


7.

Entertaining, as I do, these thoughts, I am, let me say in parenthesis,
fundamentally opposed to helping our pessimists to new water for the
discordant and groaning mills of their disgust with life; on the
contrary, it should be shown specifically that, at the time when
mankind was not yet ashamed of its cruelty, life in the world was
brighter than it is nowadays when there are pessimists. The darkening
of the heavens over man has always increased in proportion to the
growth of man's shame _before man_. The tired pessimistic outlook,
the mistrust of the riddle of life, the icy negation of disgusted
ennui, all those are not the signs of the _most evil_ age of the human
race: much rather do they come first to the light of day, as the
swamp-flowers, which they are, when the swamp to which they belong,
comes into existence--I mean the diseased refinement and moralisation,
thanks to which the "animal man" has at last learnt to be ashamed of
all his instincts. On the road to angelhood (not to use in this context
a harder word) man has developed that dyspeptic stomach and coated
tongue, which have made not only the joy and innocence of the animal
repulsive to him, but also life itself:--so that sometimes he stands
with stopped nostrils before his own self, and, like Pope Innocent the
Third, makes a black list of his own horrors ("unclean generation,
loathsome nutrition when in the maternal body, badness of the matter
out of which man develops, awful stench, secretion of saliva, urine,
and excrement"). Nowadays, when suffering is always trotted out
as the first argument _against_ existence, as its most sinister
query, it is well to remember the times when men judged on converse
principles because they could not dispense with the _infliction_ of
suffering, and saw therein a magic of the first order, a veritable
bait of seduction to life.

Perhaps in those days (this is to solace the weaklings) pain did not
hurt so much as it does nowadays: any physician who has treated negroes
(granted that these are taken as representative of the prehistoric
man) suffering from severe internal inflammations which would bring
a European, even though he had the soundest constitution, almost to
despair, would be in a position to come to this conclusion. Pain has
_not_ the same effect with negroes. (The curve of human sensibilities
to pain seems indeed to sink in an extraordinary and almost sudden
fashion, as soon as one has passed the upper ten thousand or ten
millions of over-civilised humanity, and I personally have no doubt
that, by comparison with one painful night passed by one single
hysterical chit of a cultured woman, the suffering of all the animals
taken together who have been put to the question of the knife, so as
to give scientific answers, are simply negligible.) We may perhaps
be allowed to admit the possibility of the craving for cruelty not
necessarily having become really extinct: it only requires, in view
of the fact that pain hurts more nowadays, a certain sublimation and
subtilisation, it must especially be translated to the imaginative and
psychic plane, and be adorned with such smug euphemisms, that even the
most fastidious and hypocritical conscience could never grow suspicious
of their real nature ("Tragic pity" is one of these euphemisms:
another is "_les nostalgies de la croix_"). What really raises one's
indignation against suffering is not suffering intrinsically, but
the senselessness of suffering; such a _senselessness_, however,
existed neither in Christianity, which interpreted suffering into a
whole mysterious salvation-apparatus, nor in the beliefs of the naive
ancient man, who only knew how to find a meaning in suffering from
the standpoint of the spectator, or the inflictor of the suffering.
In order to get the secret, undiscovered, and unwitnessed suffering
out of the world it was almost compulsory to invent gods and a
hierarchy of intermediate beings, in short, something which wanders
even among secret places, sees even in the dark, and makes a point
of never missing an interesting and painful spectacle. It was with
the help of such inventions that life got to learn the _tour de
force_, which has become part of its stock-in-trade, the _tour de
force_ of self-justification, of the justification of evil; nowadays
this would perhaps require other auxiliary devices (for instance,
life as a riddle, life as a problem of knowledge). "Every evil is
justified in the sight of which a god finds edification," so rang the
logic of primitive sentiment--and, indeed, was it only of primitive?
The gods conceived as friends of spectacles of cruelty--oh how far
does this primeval conception extend even nowadays into our European
civilisation! One would perhaps like in this context to consult Luther
and Calvin. It is at any rate certain that even the Greeks knew no
more piquant seasoning for the happiness of their gods than the joys
of cruelty. What, do you think, was the mood with which Homer makes
his gods look down upon the fates of men? What final meaning have at
bottom the Trojan War and similar tragic horrors? It is impossible to
entertain any doubt on the point: they were intended as festival games
for the gods, and, in so far as the poet is of a more godlike breed
than other men, as festival games also for the poets. It was in just
this spirit and no other, that at a later date the moral philosophers
of Greece conceived the eyes of God as still looking down on the moral
struggle, the heroism, and the self-torture of the virtuous; the
Heracles of duty was on a stage, and was conscious of the fact; virtue
without witnesses was something quite unthinkable for this nation of
actors. Must not that philosophic invention, so audacious and so fatal,
which was then absolutely new to Europe, the invention of "free will,"
of the absolute spontaneity of man in good and evil, simply have been
made for the specific purpose of justifying the idea, that the interest
of the gods in humanity and human virtue was _inexhaustible_?

There would never on the stage of this free-will world be a dearth of
really new, really novel and exciting situations, plots, catastrophes.
A world thought out on completely deterministic lines would be easily
guessed by the gods, and would consequently soon bore them--sufficient
reason for these _friends of the gods_, the philosophers, not to
ascribe to their gods such a deterministic world. The whole of ancient
humanity is full of delicate consideration for the spectator, being as
it is a world of thorough publicity and theatricality, which could not
conceive of happiness without spectacles and festivals.--And, as has
already been said, even in great punishment there is so much which is
festive.


8.

The feeling of "ought," of personal obligation (to take up again
the train of our inquiry), has had, as we saw, its origin in the
oldest and most original personal relationship that there is, the
relationship between buyer and seller, creditor and ower: here it
was that individual confronted individual, and that individual
_matched himself against_ individual. There has not yet been found
a grade of civilisation so low, as not to manifest some trace of
this relationship. Making prices, assessing values, thinking out
equivalents, exchanging--all this preoccupied the primal thoughts
of man to such an extent that in a certain sense it constituted
_thinking_ itself: it was here that was trained the oldest form of
sagacity, it was here in this sphere that we can perhaps trace the
first commencement of man's pride, of his feeling of superiority over
other animals. Perhaps our word "Mensch" (_manas_) still expresses
just something of _this_ self-pride: man denoted himself as the being
who measures values, who values and measures, as the "assessing"
animal _par excellence_. Sale and purchase, together with their
psychological concomitants, are older than the origins of any form of
social organisation and union: it is rather from the most rudimentary
form of individual right that the budding consciousness of exchange,
commerce, debt, right, obligation, compensation was first transferred
to the rudest and most elementary of the social complexes (in their
relation to similar complexes), the habit of comparing force with
force, together with that of measuring, of calculating. His eye was
now focussed to this perspective; and with that ponderous consistency
characteristic of ancient thought, which, though set in motion with
difficulty, yet proceeds inflexibly along the line on which it has
started, man soon arrived at the great generalisation, "everything has
its price, _all_ can be paid for," the oldest and most naive moral
canon of _justice_, the beginning of all "kindness," of all "equity,"
of all "goodwill," of all "objectivity" in the world. Justice in this
initial phase is the goodwill among people of about equal power to come
to terms with each other, to come to an understanding again by means of
a settlement, and with regard to the less powerful, to _compel_ them
to agree among themselves to a settlement.


9.

Measured always by the standard of antiquity (this antiquity, moreover,
is present or again possible at all periods), the community stands to
its members in that important and radical relationship of creditor to
his "owers." Man lives in a community, man enjoys the advantages of
a community (and what advantages! we occasionally underestimate them
nowadays), man lives protected, spared, in peace and trust, secure
from certain injuries and enmities, to which the man outside the
community, the "peaceless" man, is exposed,--a German understands the
original meaning of "Elend" (_êlend_),--secure because he has entered
into pledges and obligations to the community in respect of these very
injuries and enmities. What happens _when this is not the case_? The
community, the defrauded creditor, will get itself paid, as well as it
can, one can reckon on that. In this case the question of the direct
damage done by the offender is quite subsidiary: quite apart from
this the criminal[3] is above all a breaker, a breaker of word and
covenant _to the whole_, as regards all the advantages and amenities
of the communal life in which up to that time he had participated. The
criminal is an "ower" who not only fails to repay the advances and
advantages that have been given to him, but even sets out to attack
his creditor: consequently he is in the future not only, as is fair,
deprived of all these advantages and amenities--he is in addition
reminded of the _importance_ of those advantages. The wrath of the
injured creditor, of the community, puts him back in the wild and
outlawed status from which he was previously protected: the community
repudiates him--and now every kind of enmity can vent itself on him.
Punishment is in this stage of civilisation simply the copy, the mimic,
of the normal treatment of the hated, disdained, and conquered enemy,
who is not only deprived of every right and protection but of every
mercy; so we have the martial law and triumphant festival of the _væ
victis_! in all its mercilessness and cruelty. This shows why war
itself (counting the sacrificial cult of war) has produced all the
forms under which punishment has manifested itself in history.


10.

As it grows more powerful, the community tends to take the offences of
the individual less seriously, because they are now regarded as being
much less revolutionary and dangerous to the corporate existence: the
evil-doer is no more outlawed and put outside the pale, the common
wrath can no longer vent itself upon him with its old licence,--on
the contrary, from this very time it is against this wrath, and
particularly against the wrath of those directly injured, that the
evil-doer is carefully shielded and protected by the community. As, in
fact, the penal law develops, the following characteristics become
more and more clearly marked: compromise with the wrath of those
directly affected by the misdeed; a consequent endeavour to localise
the matter and to prevent a further, or indeed a general spread of
the disturbance; attempts to find equivalents and to settle the whole
matter (compositio); above all, the will, which manifests itself with
increasing definiteness, to treat every offence as in a certain degree
capable of _being paid off_, and consequently, at any rate up to a
certain point, to _isolate_ the offender from his act. As the power and
the self-consciousness of a community increases, so proportionately
does the penal law become mitigated; conversely every weakening and
jeopardising of the community revives the harshest forms of that law.
The creditor has always grown more humane proportionately as he has
grown more rich; finally the amount of injury he can endure without
really suffering becomes the criterion of his wealth. It is possible
to conceive of a society blessed with so great a _consciousness of its
own power_ as to indulge in the most aristocratic luxury of letting
its wrong-doers go _scot-free_.--"What do my parasites matter to me?"
might society say. "Let them live and flourish! I am strong enough for
it."--The justice which began with the maxim, "Everything can be paid
off, everything must be paid off," ends with connivance at the escape
of those who cannot pay to escape--it ends, like every good thing on
earth, by _destroying itself_.--The self-destruction of Justice! we
know the pretty name it calls itself--_Grace!_ it remains, as is
obvious, the privilege of the strongest, better still, their super-law.


11.

A deprecatory word here against the attempts, that have lately been
made, to find the origin of justice on quite another basis--namely,
on that of _resentment_. Let me whisper a word in the ear of the
psychologists, if they would fain study revenge itself at close
quarters: this plant blooms its prettiest at present among Anarchists
and anti-Semites, a hidden flower, as it has ever been, like the
violet, though, forsooth, with another perfume. And as like must
necessarily emanate from like, it will not be a matter for surprise
that it is just in such circles that we see the birth of endeavours (it
is their old birthplace--compare above, First Essay, paragraph 14),
to sanctify _revenge_ under the name of _justice_ (as though Justice
were at bottom merely a _development_ of the consciousness of injury),
and thus with the rehabilitation of revenge to reinstate generally
and collectively all the _reactive_ emotions. I object to this last
point least of all. It even seems _meritorious_ when regarded from the
standpoint of the whole problem of biology (from which standpoint the
value of these emotions has up to the present been underestimated).
And that to which I alone call attention, is the circumstance that
it is the spirit of revenge itself, from which develops this new
nuance of scientific equity (for the benefit of hate, envy, mistrust,
jealousy, suspicion, rancour, revenge). This scientific "equity"
stops immediately and makes way for the accents of deadly enmity and
prejudice, so soon as another group of emotions comes on the scene,
which in my opinion are of a much higher biological value than these
reactions, and consequently have a paramount claim to the valuation
and appreciation of science: I mean the really _active_ emotions, such
as personal and material ambition, and so forth. (E. Dühring, _Value
of Life; Course of Philosophy_, and _passim_.) So much against this
tendency in general: but as for the particular maxim of Dühring's,
that the home of Justice is to be found in the sphere of the reactive
feelings, our love of truth compels us drastically to invert his own
proposition and to oppose to him this other maxim: the _last_ sphere
conquered by the spirit of justice is the sphere of the feeling of
reaction! When it really comes about that the just man remains just
even as regards his injurer (and not merely cold, moderate, reserved,
indifferent: being just is always a _positive_ state); when, in spite
of the strong provocation of personal insult, contempt, and calumny,
the lofty and clear objectivity of the just and judging eye (whose
glance is as profound as it is gentle) is untroubled, why then we have
a piece of perfection, a past master of the world--something, in fact,
which it would not be wise to expect, and which should not at any
rate be too easily _believed_. Speaking generally, there is no doubt
but that even the justest individual only requires a little dose of
hostility, malice, or innuendo to drive the blood into his brain and
the fairness _from_ it. The active man, the attacking, aggressive man
is always a hundred degrees nearer to justice than the man who merely
reacts; he certainly has no need to adopt the tactics, necessary in the
case of the reacting man, of making false and biassed valuations of his
object. It is, in point of fact, for this reason that the aggressive
man has at all times enjoyed the stronger, bolder, more aristocratic,
and also _freer_ outlook, the _better_ conscience. On the other hand,
we already surmise who it really is that has on his conscience the
invention of the "bad conscience,"--the resentful man! Finally, let man
look at himself in history. In what sphere up to the present has the
whole administration of law, the actual need of law, found its earthly
home? Perchance in the sphere of the reacting man? Not for a minute:
rather in that of the active, strong, spontaneous, aggressive man? I
deliberately defy the above-mentioned agitator (who himself makes this
self-confession, "the creed of revenge has run through all my works
and endeavours like the red thread of Justice"), and say, that judged
historically law in the world represents the very war _against_ the
reactive feelings, the very war waged on those feelings by the powers
of activity and aggression, which devote some of their strength to
damming and keeping within bounds this effervescence of hysterical
reactivity, and to forcing it to some compromise. Everywhere where
justice is practised and justice is maintained, it is to be observed
that the stronger power, when confronted with the weaker powers which
are inferior to it (whether they be groups, or individuals), searches
for weapons to put an end to the senseless fury of resentment, while
it carries on its object, partly by taking the victim of resentment
out of the clutches of revenge, partly by substituting for revenge a
campaign of its own against the enemies of peace and order, partly
by finding, suggesting, and occasionally enforcing settlements,
partly by standardising certain equivalents for injuries, to which
equivalents the element of resentment is henceforth finally referred.
The most drastic measure, however, taken and effectuated by the supreme
power, to combat the preponderance of the feelings of spite and
vindictiveness--it takes this measure as soon as it is at all strong
enough to do so--is the foundation of _law_, the imperative declaration
of what in its eyes is to be regarded as just and lawful, and what
unjust and unlawful: and while, after the foundation of law, the
supreme power treats the aggressive and arbitrary acts of individuals,
or of whole groups, as a violation of law, and a revolt against
itself, it distracts the feelings of its subjects from the immediate
injury inflicted by such a violation, and thus eventually attains the
very opposite result to that always desired by revenge, which sees
and recognises nothing but the standpoint of the injured party. From
henceforth the eye becomes trained to a more and more _impersonal_
valuation of the deed, even the eye of the injured party himself
(though this is in the final stage of all, as has been previously
remarked)--on this principle "right" and "wrong" first manifest
themselves after the foundation of law (and not, as Dühring maintains,
only after the act of violation). To talk of intrinsic right and
intrinsic wrong is absolutely non-sensical; intrinsically, an injury,
an oppression, an exploitation, an annihilation can be nothing wrong,
inasmuch as life is _essentially_ (that is, in its cardinal functions)
something which functions by injuring, oppressing, exploiting, and
annihilating, and is absolutely inconceivable without such a character.
It is necessary to make an even more serious confession:--viewed from
the most advanced biological standpoint, conditions of legality can be
only _exceptional conditions_, in that they are partial restrictions
of the real life-will, which makes for power, and in that they are
subordinated to the life-will's general end as particular means,
that is, as means to create _larger_ units of strength. A legal
organisation, conceived of as sovereign and universal, not as a weapon
in a fight of complexes of power, but as a weapon _against_ fighting,
generally something after the style of Dühring's communistic model
of treating every will as equal with every other will, would be a
principle _hostile to life_, a destroyer and dissolver of man, an
outrage on the future of man, a symptom of fatigue, a secret cut to
Nothingness.--


12.

A word more on the origin and end of punishment--two problems which
are or ought to be kept distinct, but which unfortunately are usually
lumped into one. And what tactics have our moral genealogists employed
up to the present in these cases? Their inveterate naïveté. They find
out some "end" in the punishment, for instance, revenge and deterrence,
and then in all their innocence set this end at the beginning, as the
_causa fiendi_ of the punishment, and--they have done the trick. But
the patching up of a history of the origin of law is the last use to
which the "End in Law"[4] ought to be put. Perhaps there is no more
pregnant principle for any kind of history than the following, which,
difficult though it is to master, _should_ none the less be _mastered_
in every detail.--The origin of the existence of a thing and its final
utility, its practical application and incorporation in a system of
ends, are _toto cœlo_ opposed to each other--everything, anything,
which exists and which prevails anywhere, will always be put to new
purposes by a force superior to itself, will be commandeered afresh,
will be turned and transformed to new uses; all "happening" in the
organic world consists of _overpowering_ and dominating, and again all
overpowering and domination is a new interpretation and adjustment,
which must necessarily obscure or absolutely extinguish the subsisting
"meaning" and "end." The most perfect comprehension of the utility
of any physiological organ (or also of a legal institution, social
custom, political habit, form in art or in religious worship) does not
for a minute imply any simultaneous comprehension of its origin: this
may seem uncomfortable and unpalatable to the older men,--for it has
been the immemorial belief that understanding the final cause or the
utility of a thing, a form, an institution, means also understanding
the reason for its origin: to give an example of this logic, the eye
was made to see, the hand was made to grasp. So even punishment was
conceived as invented with a view to punishing. But all ends and all
utilities are only _signs_ that a Will to Power has mastered a less
powerful force, has impressed thereon out of its own self the meaning
of a function; and the whole history of a "Thing," an organ, a custom,
can on the same principle be regarded as a continuous "sign-chain"
of perpetually new interpretations and adjustments, whose causes, so
far from needing to have even a mutual connection, sometimes follow
and alternate with each other absolutely haphazard. Similarly, the
evolution of a "thing," of a custom, is anything but its _progressus_
to an end, still less a logical and direct _progressus_ attained
with the minimum expenditure of energy and cost: it is rather the
succession of processes of subjugation, more or less profound, more
or less mutually independent, which operate on the thing itself; it
is, further, the resistance which in each case invariably displayed
this subjugation, the Protean wriggles by way of defence and reaction,
and, further, the results of successful counter-efforts. The form is
fluid, but the meaning is even more so--even inside every individual
organism the case is the same: with every genuine growth of the whole,
the "function" of the individual organs becomes shifted,--in certain
cases a partial perishing of these organs, a diminution of their
numbers (for instance, through annihilation of the connecting members),
can be a symptom of growing strength and perfection. What I mean is
this: even partial _loss of utility_, decay, and degeneration, loss of
function and purpose, in a word, death, appertain to the conditions
of the genuine _progressus_; which always appears in the shape of
a will and way to _greater_ power, and is always realised at the
expense of innumerable smaller powers. The magnitude of a "progress"
is gauged by the greatness of the sacrifice that it requires: humanity
as a mass sacrificed to the prosperity of the one _stronger_ species
of Man--that _would be_ a progress. I emphasise all the more this
cardinal characteristic of the historic method, for the reason that in
its essence it runs counter to predominant instincts and prevailing
taste, which much prefer to put up with absolute casualness, even with
the mechanical senselessness of all phenomena, than with the theory
of a power-will, in exhaustive play throughout all phenomena. The
democratic idiosyncrasy against everything which rules and wishes to
rule, the modern _misarchism_ (to coin a bad word for a bad thing),
has gradually but so thoroughly transformed itself into the guise of
intellectualism, the most abstract intellectualism, that even nowadays
it penetrates and _has the right_ to penetrate step by step into the
most exact and apparently the most objective sciences: this tendency
has, in fact, in my view already dominated the whole of physiology
and biology, and to their detriment, as is obvious, in so far as
it has spirited away a radical idea, the idea of true _activity_.
The tyranny of this idiosyncrasy, however, results in the theory
of "adaptation" being pushed forward into the van of the argument,
exploited; adaptation--that means to say, a second-class activity, a
mere capacity for "reacting"; in fact, life itself has been defined
(by Herbert Spencer) as an increasingly effective internal adaptation
to external circumstances. This definition, however, fails to realise
the real essence of life, its will to power. It fails to appreciate the
paramount superiority enjoyed by those plastic forces of spontaneity,
aggression, and encroachment with their new interpretations and
tendencies, to the operation of which adaptation is only a natural
corollary: consequently the sovereign office of the highest
functionaries in the organism itself (among which the life-will appears
as an active and formative principle) is repudiated. One remembers
Huxley's reproach to Spencer of his "administrative Nihilism": but it
is a case of something much _more_ than "administration."


13.

To return to our subject, namely _punishment_, we must make
consequently a double distinction: first, the relatively permanent
_element_, the custom, the act, the "drama," a certain rigid sequence
of methods of procedure; on the other hand, the fluid element, the
meaning, the end, the expectation which is attached to the operation of
such procedure. At this point we immediately assume, _per analogiam_
(in accordance with the theory of the historic method, which we have
elaborated above), that the procedure itself is something older and
earlier than its utilisation in punishment, that this utilisation was
_introduced_ and interpreted into the procedure (which had existed
for a long time, but whose employment had another meaning), in short,
that the case is _different_ from that hitherto supposed by our _naïf_
genealogists of morals and of law, who thought that the procedure was
_invented_ for the purpose of punishment, in the same way that the hand
had been previously thought to have been invented for the purpose of
grasping. With regard to the other element in _punishment_, its fluid
element, its meaning, the idea of punishment in a very late stage of
civilisation (for instance, contemporary Europe) is not content with
manifesting merely one meaning, but manifests a whole synthesis "of
meanings." The past general history of punishment, the history of its
employment for the most diverse ends, crystallises eventually into
a kind of unity, which is difficult to analyse into its parts, and
which, it is necessary to emphasise, absolutely defies definition.
(It is nowadays impossible to say definitely _the precise reason_
for punishment: all ideas, in which a whole process is promiscuously
comprehended, elude definition; it is only that which has no history,
which can be defined.) At an earlier stage, on the contrary, that
synthesis of meanings appears much less rigid and much more elastic; we
can realise how in each individual case the elements of the synthesis
change their value and their position, so that now one element and
now another stands out and predominates over the others, nay, in
certain cases one element (perhaps the end of deterrence) seems to
eliminate all the rest. At any rate, so as to give some idea of the
uncertain, supplementary, and accidental nature of the meaning of
punishment and of the manner in which one identical procedure can
be employed and adapted for the most diametrically opposed objects,
I will at this point give a scheme that has suggested itself to
me, a scheme itself based on comparatively small and accidental
material.--Punishment, as rendering the criminal harmless and incapable
of further injury.--Punishment, as compensation for the injury
sustained by the injured party, in any form whatsoever (including
the form of sentimental compensation).--Punishment, as an isolation
of that which disturbs the equilibrium, so as to prevent the further
spreading of the disturbance.--Punishment as a means of inspiring
fear of those who determine and execute the punishment.--Punishment
as a kind of compensation for advantages which the wrong-doer has
up to that time enjoyed (for example, when he is utilised as a
slave in the mines).--Punishment, as the elimination of an element
of decay (sometimes of a whole branch, as according to the Chinese
laws, consequently as a means to the purification of the race, or
the preservation of a social type).---Punishment as a festival, as
the violent oppression and humiliation of an enemy that has at last
been subdued.--Punishment as a mnemonic, whether for him who suffers
the punishment--the so-called "correction," or for the witnesses of
its administration. Punishment, as the payment of a fee stipulated
for by the power which protects the evil-doer from the excesses of
revenge.--Punishment, as a compromise with the natural phenomenon
of revenge, in so far as revenge is still maintained and claimed
as a privilege by the stronger races.--Punishment as a declaration
and measure of war against an enemy of peace, of law, of order,
of authority, who is fought by society with the weapons which war
provides, as a spirit dangerous to the community, as a breaker of the
contract on which the community is based, as a rebel, a traitor, and a
breaker of the peace.


14.

This list is certainly not complete; it is obvious that punishment
is overloaded with utilities of all kinds. This makes it all the
more permissible to eliminate one supposed utility, which passes, at
any rate in the popular mind, for its most essential utility, and
which is just what even now provides the strongest support for that
faith in punishment which is nowadays for many reasons tottering.
Punishment is supposed to have the value of exciting in the guilty
the consciousness of guilt; in punishment is sought the proper
instrumentum of that psychic reaction which becomes known as a "bad
conscience," "remorse." But this theory is even, from the point of
view of the present, a violation of reality and psychology: and how
much more so is the case when we have to deal with the longest period
of man's history, his primitive history! Genuine remorse is certainly
extremely rare among wrong-doers and the victims of punishment; prisons
and houses of correction are not _the_ soil on which this worm of
remorse pullulates for choice--this is the unanimous opinion of all
conscientious observers, who in many cases arrive at such a judgment
with enough reluctance and against their own personal wishes. Speaking
generally, punishment hardens and numbs, it produces concentration, it
sharpens the consciousness of alienation, it strengthens the power of
resistance. When it happens that it breaks the man's energy and brings
about a piteous prostration and abjectness, such a result is certainly
even less salutary than the average effect of punishment, which is
characterised by a harsh and sinister doggedness. The thought of those
_prehistoric_ millennia brings us to the unhesitating conclusion,
that it was simply through punishment that the evolution of the
consciousness of guilt was most forcibly retarded--at any rate in the
victims of the punishing power. In particular, let us not underestimate
the extent to which, by the very sight of the judicial and executive
procedure, the wrong-doer is himself prevented from feeling that his
deed, the character of his act, is _intrinsically_ reprehensible: for
he sees clearly the same kind of acts practised in the service of
justice, and then called good, and practised with a good conscience;
acts such as espionage, trickery, bribery, trapping, the whole
intriguing and insidious art of the policeman and the informer--the
whole system, in fact, manifested in the different kinds of punishment
(a system not excused by passion, but based on principle), of robbing,
oppressing, insulting, imprisoning, racking, murdering.--All this
he sees treated by his judges, not as acts meriting censure and
condemnation _in themselves_, but only in a particular context and
application. It was not on this soil that grew the "bad conscience,"
that most sinister and interesting plant of our earthly vegetation--
in point of fact, throughout a most lengthy period, no suggestion of
having to do with a "guilty man" manifested itself in the consciousness
of the man who judged and punished. One had merely to deal with an
author of an injury, an irresponsible piece of fate. And the man
himself, on whom the punishment subsequently fell like a piece of fate,
was occasioned no more of an "inner pain" than would be occasioned by
the sudden approach of some uncalculated event, some terrible natural
catastrophe, a rushing, crushing avalanche against which there is no
resistance.


15.

This truth came insidiously enough to the consciousness of Spinoza (to
the disgust of his commentators, who (like Kuno Fischer, for instance)
give themselves no end of _trouble_ to misunderstand him on this
point), when one afternoon (as he sat raking up who knows what memory)
he indulged in the question of what was really left for him personally
of the celebrated _morsus conscientiæ_--Spinoza, who had relegated
"good and evil" to the sphere of human imagination, and indignantly
defended the honour of his "free" God against those blasphemers who
affirmed that God did everything _sub ratione boni_ ("but this was
tantamount to subordinating God to fate, and would really be the
greatest of all absurdities"). For Spinoza the world had returned
again to that innocence in which it lay before the discovery of the
bad conscience: what, then, had happened to the _morsus conscientiæ_?
"The antithesis of _gaudium_," said he at last to himself,--"A sadness
accompanied by the recollection of a past event which has turned out
contrary to all expectation" (_Eth_. III., Propos. XVIII. Schol.
i. ii.). Evil-doers have throughout thousands of years felt when
overtaken by punishment _exactly like Spinoza_, on the subject of
their "offence": "here is something which went wrong contrary to my
anticipation," not "I ought not to have done this."--They submitted
themselves to punishment, just as one submits one's self to a disease,
to a misfortune, or to death, with that stubborn and resigned fatalism
which gives the Russians, for instance, even nowadays, the advantage
over us Westerners, in the handling of life. If at that period there
was a critique of action, the criterion was prudence: the real _effect_
of punishment is unquestionably chiefly to be found in a sharpening
of the sense of prudence, in a lengthening of the memory, in a will
to adopt more of a policy of caution, suspicion, and secrecy; in the
recognition that there are many things which are unquestionably beyond
one's capacity; in a kind of improvement in self-criticism. The broad
effects which can be obtained by punishment in man and beast, are the
increase of fear, the sharpening of the sense of cunning, the mastery
of the desires: so it is that punishment _tames_ man, but does not make
him "better"--it would be more correct even to go so far as to assert
the contrary ("Injury makes a man cunning," says a popular proverb: so
far as it makes him cunning, it makes him also bad. Fortunately, it
often enough makes him stupid).


16.

At this juncture I cannot avoid trying to give a tentative and
provisional expression to my own hypothesis concerning the origin of
the bad conscience: it is difficult to make it fully appreciated,
and it requires continuous meditation, attention, and digestion. I
regard the bad conscience as the serious illness which man was bound
to contract under the stress of the most radical change which he has
ever experienced--that change, when he found himself finally imprisoned
within the pale of society and of peace.

Just like the plight of the water-animals, when they were compelled
either to become land-animals or to perish, so was the plight of these
half-animals, perfectly adapted as they were to the savage life of war,
prowling, and adventure--suddenly all their instincts were rendered
worthless and "switched off." Henceforward they had to walk on their
feet--"carry themselves," whereas heretofore they had been carried by
the water: a terrible heaviness oppressed them. They found themselves
clumsy in obeying the simplest directions, confronted with this new
and unknown world they had no longer their old guides--the regulative
instincts that had led them unconsciously to safety--they were reduced,
were those unhappy creatures, to thinking, inferring, calculating,
putting together causes and results, reduced to that poorest and most
erratic organ of theirs, their "consciousness." I do not believe
there was ever in the world such a feeling of misery, such a leaden
discomfort--further, those old instincts had not immediately ceased
their demands! Only it was difficult and rarely possible to gratify
them: speaking broadly, they were compelled to satisfy themselves by
new and, as it were, hole-and-corner methods. All instincts which
do not find a vent without, _turn inwards_--this is what I mean by
the growing "internalisation" of man: consequently we have the first
growth in man, of what subsequently was called his soul. The whole
inner world, originally as thin as if it had been stretched between
two layers of skin, burst apart and expanded proportionately, and
obtained depth, breadth, and height, when man's external outlet
became _obstructed_. These terrible bulwarks, with which the social
organisation protected itself against the old instincts of freedom
(punishments belong pre-eminently to these bulwarks), brought it
about that all those instincts of wild, free, prowling man became
turned backwards against man himself. Enmity, cruelty, the delight
in persecution, in surprises, change, destruction--the turning all
these instincts against their own possessors: this is the origin of
the "bad conscience." It was man, who, lacking external enemies and
obstacles, and imprisoned as he was in the oppressive narrowness and
monotony of custom, in his own impatience lacerated, persecuted,
gnawed, frightened, and ill-treated himself; it was this animal in the
hands of the tamer, which beat itself against the bars of its cage; it
was this being who, pining and yearning for that desert home of which
it had been deprived, was compelled to create out of its own self, an
adventure, a torture-chamber, a hazardous and perilous desert--it was
this fool, this homesick and desperate prisoner--who invented the "bad
conscience." But thereby he introduced that most grave and sinister
illness, from which mankind has not yet recovered, the suffering of
man from the disease called man, as the result of a violent breaking
from his animal past, the result, as it were, of a spasmodic plunge
into a new environment and new conditions of existence, the result of
a declaration of war against the old instincts, which up to that time
had been the staple of his power, his joy, his formidableness. Let
us immediately add that this fact of an animal ego turning against
itself, taking part against itself, produced in the world so novel,
profound, unheard-of, problematic, inconsistent, and _pregnant_ a
phenomenon, that the aspect of the world was radically altered thereby.
In sooth, only divine spectators could have appreciated the drama
that then began, and whose end baffles conjecture as yet--a drama too
subtle, too wonderful, too paradoxical to warrant its undergoing a
non-sensical and unheeded performance on some random grotesque planet!
Henceforth man is to be counted as one of the most unexpected and
sensational lucky shots in the game of the "big baby" of Heracleitus,
whether he be called Zeus or Chance--he awakens on his behalf the
interest, excitement, hope, almost the confidence, of his being the
harbinger and forerunner of something, of man being no end, but only a
stage, an interlude, a bridge, a great promise.


17.

It is primarily involved in this hypothesis of the origin of the bad
conscience, that that alteration was no gradual and no voluntary
alteration, and that it did not manifest itself as an organic
adaptation to new conditions, but as a break, a jump, a necessity, an
inevitable fate, against which there was no resistance and never a
spark of resentment. And secondarily, that the fitting of a hitherto
unchecked and amorphous population into a fixed form, starting as
it had done in an act of violence, could only be accomplished by
acts of violence and nothing else--that the oldest "State" appeared
consequently as a ghastly tyranny, a grinding ruthless piece of
machinery, which went on working, till this raw material of a
semi-animal populace was not only thoroughly kneaded and elastic, but
also _moulded_. I used the word "State": my meaning is self-evident,
namely, a herd of blonde beasts of prey, a race of conquerors and
masters, which with all its warlike organisation and all its organising
power pounces with its terrible claws on a population, in numbers
possibly tremendously superior, but as yet formless, as yet nomad.
Such is the origin of the "State." That fantastic theory that makes it
begin with a contract is, I think, disposed of. He who can command,
he who is a master by "nature," he who comes on the scene forceful
in deed and gesture--what has he to do with contracts? Such beings
defy calculation, they come like fate, without cause, reason, notice,
excuse, they are there like the lightning is there, too terrible, too
sudden, too convincing, too "different," to be personally even hated.
Their work is an instinctive creating and impressing of forms, they
are the most involuntary, unconscious artists that there are:--their
appearance produces instantaneously a scheme of sovereignty which is
live, in which the functions are partitioned and apportioned, in which
above all no part is received or finds a place, until pregnant with
a "meaning" in regard to the whole. They are ignorant of the meaning
of guilt, responsibility, consideration, are these born organisers;
in them predominates that terrible artist-egoism, that gleams like
brass, and that knows itself justified to all eternity, in its work,
even as a mother in her child. It is not in _them_ that there grew
the bad conscience, that is elementary--but it would not have grown
_without_ them, repulsive growth as it was, it would be missing, had
not a tremendous quantity of freedom been expelled from the world by
the stress of their hammer-strokes, their artist violence, or been at
any rate made invisible and, as it were, _latent_. This _instinct of
freedom_ forced into being latent--it is already clear--this instinct
of freedom forced back, trodden back, imprisoned within itself, and
finally only able to find vent and relief in itself; this, only this,
is the beginning of the "bad conscience."


18.

Beware of thinking lightly of this phenomenon, by reason of its initial
painful ugliness. At bottom it is the same active force which is at
work on a more grandiose scale in those potent artists and organisers,
and builds states, which here, internally, on a smaller and pettier
scale and with a retrogressive tendency, makes itself a bad science in
the "labyrinth of the breast," to use Goethe's phrase, and which builds
negative ideals; it is, I repeat, that identical _instinct of freedom_
(to use my own language, the will to power): only the material, on
which this force with all its constructive and tyrannous nature is
let loose, is here man himself, his whole old animal self--and not as
in the case of that more grandiose and sensational phenomenon, the
_other_ man, _other_ men. This secret self-tyranny, this cruelty of
the artist, this delight in giving a form to one's self as a piece of
difficult, refractory, and suffering material, in burning in a will, a
critique, a contradiction, a contempt, a negation; this sinister and
ghastly labour of love on the part of a soul, whose will is cloven
in two within itself, which makes itself suffer from delight in the
infliction of suffering; this wholly _active_ bad conscience has
finally (as one already anticipates)--true fountainhead as it is of
idealism and imagination--produced an abundance of novel and amazing
beauty and affirmation, and perhaps has really been the first to
give birth to beauty at all. What would beauty be, forsooth, if its
contradiction had not first been presented to consciousness, if the
ugly had not first said to itself, "I am ugly"? At any rate, after this
hint the problem of how far idealism and beauty can be traced in such
opposite ideas as "_selflessness_," _self-denial_, _self-sacrifice_,
becomes less problematical; and indubitably in future we shall
certainly know the real and original character of the _delight_
experienced by the self-less, the self-denying, the self-sacrificing:
this delight is a phase of cruelty.--So much provisionally for the
origin of "altruism" as a _moral_ value, and the marking out the ground
from which this value has grown: it is only the bad conscience, only
the will for self-abuse, that provides the necessary conditions for the
existence of altruism as a _value_.


19.

Undoubtedly the bad conscience is an illness, but an illness like
pregnancy is an illness. If we search out the conditions under which
this illness reaches its most terrible and sublime zenith, we shall see
what really first brought about its entry into the world. But to do
this we must take a long breath, and we must first of all go back once
again to an earlier point of view. The relation at civil law of the
ower to his creditor (which has already been discussed in detail), has
been interpreted once again (and indeed in a manner which historically
is exceedingly remarkable and suspicious) into a relationship, which
is perhaps more incomprehensible to us moderns than to any other era;
that is, into the relationship of the _existing_ generation to its
_ancestors_. Within the original tribal association--we are talking of
primitive times--each living generation recognises a legal obligation
towards the earlier generation, and particularly towards the earliest,
which founded the family (and this is something much more than a mere
sentimental obligation, the existence of which, during the longest
period of man's history, is by no means indisputable). There prevails
in them the conviction that it is only thanks to sacrifices and efforts
of their ancestors, that the race _persists_ at all--and that this
has to be _paid back_ to them by sacrifices and services. Thus is
recognised the _owing_ of a debt, which accumulates continually by
reason of these ancestors never ceasing in their subsequent life as
potent spirits to secure by their power new privileges and advantages
to the race. Gratis, perchance? But there is no gratis for that raw
and "mean-souled" age. What return can be made?--Sacrifice (at first,
nourishment, in its crudest sense), festivals, temples, tributes of
veneration, above all, obedience--since all customs are, _quâ_ works of
the ancestors, equally their precepts and commands--are the ancestors
ever given enough? This suspicion remains and grows: from time to time
it extorts a great wholesale ransom, something monstrous in the way of
repayment of the creditor (the notorious sacrifice of the first-born,
for example, blood, human blood in any case). The _fear_ of ancestors
and their power, the consciousness of owing debts to them, necessarily
increases, according to this kind of logic, in the exact proportion
that the race itself increases, that the race itself becomes more
victorious, more independent, more honoured, more feared. This, and not
the contrary, is the fact. Each step towards race decay, all disastrous
events, all symptoms of degeneration, of approaching disintegration,
always _diminish_ the fear of the founders' spirit, and whittle away
the idea of his sagacity, providence, and potent presence. Conceive
this crude kind of logic carried to its climax: it follows that the
ancestors of the _most powerful_ races must, through the growing fear
that they exercise on the imaginations, grow themselves into monstrous
dimensions, and become relegated to the gloom of a divine mystery that
transcends imagination--the ancestor becomes at last necessarily
transfigured into a _god_. Perhaps this is the very origin of the gods,
that is, an origin from _fear_! And those who feel bound to add, "but
from piety also," will have difficulty in maintaining this theory,
with regard to the primeval and longest period of the human race. And
of course this is even more the case as regards the _middle_ period,
the formative period of the aristocratic races--the aristocratic
races which have given back with interest to their founders, the
ancestors (heroes, gods), all those qualities which in the meanwhile
have appeared in themselves, that is, the aristocratic qualities. We
will later on glance again at the ennobling and promotion of the gods
(which of course is totally distinct from their "sanctification"): let
us now provisionally follow to its end the course of the whole of this
development of the consciousness of "owing."


20.

According to the teaching of history, the consciousness of owing
debts to the deity by no means came to an end with the decay of the
clan organisation of society; just as mankind has inherited the
ideas of "good" and "bad" from the race-nobility (together with its
fundamental tendency towards establishing social distinctions), so
with the heritage of the racial and tribal gods it has also inherited
the incubus of debts as yet unpaid and the desire to discharge them.
The transition is effected by those large populations of slaves and
bondsmen, who, whether through compulsion or through submission and
"_mimicry,_" have accommodated themselves to the religion of their
masters; through this channel these inherited tendencies inundate
the world. The feeling of owing a debt to the deity has grown
continuously for several centuries, always in the same proportion in
which the idea of God and the consciousness of God have grown and
become exalted among mankind. (The whole history of ethnic fights,
victories, reconciliations, amalgamations, everything, in fact, which
precedes the eventual classing of all the social elements in each great
race-synthesis, are mirrored in the hotch-potch genealogy of their
gods, in the legends of their fights, victories, and reconciliations.
Progress towards universal empires invariably means progress towards
universal deities; despotism, with its subjugation of the independent
nobility, always paves the way for some system or other of monotheism.)
The appearance of the Christian god, as the record god up to this time,
has for that very reason brought equally into the world the record
amount of guilt consciousness. Granted that we have gradually started
on the _reverse_ movement, there is no little probability in the
deduction, based on the continuous decay in the belief in the Christian
god, to the effect that there also already exists a considerable
decay in the human consciousness of owing (ought); in fact, we cannot
shut our eyes to the prospect of the complete and eventual triumph of
atheism freeing mankind from all this feeling of obligation to their
origin, their _causa prima_. Atheism and a kind of second innocence
complement and supplement each other.


21.

So much for my rough and preliminary sketch of the interrelation of
the ideas "ought" (owe) and "duty" with the postulates of religion. I
have intentionally shelved up to the present the actual moralisation
of these ideas (their being pushed back into the conscience, or more
precisely the interweaving of the _bad_ conscience with the idea of
God), and at the end of the last paragraph used language to the effect
that this moralisation did not exist, and that consequently these ideas
had necessarily come to an end, by reason of what had happened to their
hypothesis, the credence in our "creditor," in God. The actual facts
differ terribly from this theory. It is with the moralisation of the
ideas "ought" and "duty," and with their being pushed back into the
_bad_ conscience, that comes the first actual attempt to _reverse_ the
direction of the development we have just described, or at any rate
to arrest its evolution; it is just at this juncture that the very
hope of an eventual redemption _has to_ put itself once for all into
the prison of pessimism, it is at this juncture that the eye _has to_
recoil and rebound in despair from off an adamantine impossibility,
it is at this juncture that the ideas "guilt" and "duty" have to turn
backwards--turn backwards against _whom_? There is no doubt about
it; primarily against the "ower," in whom the bad conscience now
establishes itself, eats, extends, and grows like a polypus throughout
its length and breadth, all with such virulence, that at last, with
the impossibility of paying the debt, there becomes conceived the
idea of the impossibility of paying the penalty, the thought of its
inexpiability (the idea of "eternal punishment")--finally, too, it
turns against the "creditor," whether found in the _causa prima_ of
man, the origin of the human race, its sire, who henceforth becomes
burdened with a curse ("Adam," "original sin," "determination of the
will"), or in Nature from whose womb man springs, and on whom the
responsibility for the principle of evil is now cast ("Diabolisation of
Nature"), or in existence generally, on this logic an absolute _white
elephant_, with which mankind is landed (the Nihilistic flight from
life, the demand for Nothingness, or for the opposite of existence, for
some other existence, Buddhism and the like)--till suddenly we stand
before that paradoxical and awful expedient, through which a tortured
humanity has found a temporary alleviation, that stroke of genius
called Christianity:--God personally immolating himself for the debt of
man, God paying himself personally out of a pound of his own flesh, God
as the one being who can deliver man from what man had become unable to
deliver himself--the creditor playing scapegoat for his debtor, from
_love_ (can you believe it?), from love of his debtor!...


22.

The reader will already have conjectured what took place on the stage
and behind the scenes of this drama. That will for self-torture, that
inverted cruelty of the animal man, who, turned subjective and scared
into introspection (encaged as he was in "the State," as part of his
taming process), invented the bad conscience so as to hurt himself,
after the _natural_ outlet for this will to hurt, became blocked--in
other words, this man of the bad conscience exploited the religious
hypothesis so as to carry his martyrdom to the ghastliest pitch of
agonised intensity. Owing something to _God_: this thought becomes his
instrument of torture. He apprehends in God the most extreme antitheses
that he can find to his own characteristic and ineradicable animal
instincts, he himself gives a new interpretation to these animal
instincts as being against what he "owes" to God (as enmity, rebellion,
and revolt against the "Lord," the "Father," the "Sire," the "Beginning
of the world"), he places himself between the horns of the dilemma,
"God" and "Devil." Every negation which he is inclined to utter to
himself, to the nature, naturalness, and reality of his being, he
whips into an ejaculation of "yes," uttering it as something existing,
living, efficient, as being God, as the holiness of God, the judgment
of God, as the hangmanship of God, as transcendence, as eternity, as
unending torment, as hell, as infinity of punishment and guilt. This is
a kind of madness of the will in the sphere of psychological cruelty
which is absolutely unparalleled:--man's _will_ to find himself guilty
and blameworthy to the point of inexpiability, his _will_ to think of
himself as punished, without the punishment ever being able to balance
the guilt, his _will_ to infect and to poison the fundamental basis
of the universe with the problem of punishment and guilt, in order to
cut off once and for all any escape out of this labyrinth of "fixed
ideas," his will for rearing an ideal--that of the "holy God"--face to
face with which he can have tangible proof of his own un-worthiness.
Alas for this mad melancholy beast man! What phantasies invade it,
what paroxysms of perversity, hysterical senselessness, and _mental
bestiality_ break out immediately, at the very slightest check on its
being the beast of action. All this is excessively interesting, but
at the same time tainted with a black, gloomy, enervating melancholy,
so that a forcible veto must be invoked against looking too long into
these abysses. Here is _disease_, undubitably, the most ghastly disease
that has as yet played havoc among men: and he who can still hear (but
man turns now deaf ears to such sounds), how in this night of torment
and nonsense there has rung out the cry of _love_, the cry of the most
passionate ecstasy, of redemption in _love_, he turns away gripped by
an invincible horror--in man there is so much that is ghastly--too long
has the world been a mad-house.


23.

Let this suffice once for all concerning the origin of the "holy God."
The fact that _in itself_ the conception of gods is not bound to
lead necessarily to this degradation of the imagination (a temporary
representation of whose vagaries we felt bound give), the fact that
there exist nobler methods of utilising the invention of gods than in
this self-crucifixion and self-degradation of man, in which the last
two thousand years of Europe have been past masters--these facts can
fortunately be still perceived from every glance that we cast at the
Grecian gods, these mirrors of noble and grandiose men, in which the
_animal_ in man felt itself deified, and did _not_ devour itself in
subjective frenzy. These Greeks long utilised their gods as simple
buffers against the "bad conscience"--so that they could continue
to enjoy their freedom of soul: this, of course, is diametrically
opposed to Christianity's theory of its god. They went _very far_ on
this principle, did these splendid and lion-hearted children; and
there is no lesser authority than that of the Homeric Zeus for making
them realise occasionally that they are taking life too casually.
"Wonderful," says he on one occasion--it has to do with the case of
Ægistheus, a _very_ bad case indeed--

    "Wonderful how they grumble, the mortals against the immortals,
    _Only from us_, they presume, _comes evil_, but in their folly,
    Fashion they, spite of fate, the doom of their own disaster."

Yet the reader will note and observe that this Olympian spectator and
judge is far from being angry with them and thinking evil of them on
this score. "How _foolish_ they are," so thinks he of the misdeeds
of mortals--and "folly," "imprudence," "a little brain disturbance,"
and nothing more, are what the Greeks, even of the strongest, bravest
period, have admitted to be the ground of much that is evil and
fatal.--Folly, _not_ sin, do you understand?... But even this brain
disturbance was a problem--"Come, how is it even possible? How could it
have really got in brains like ours, the brains of men of aristocratic
ancestry, of men of fortune, of men of good natural endowments, of
men of the best society, of men of nobility and virtue?" This was the
question that for century on century the aristocratic Greek put to
himself when confronted with every (to him incomprehensible) outrage
and sacrilege with which one of his peers had polluted himself. "It
must be that a god had infatuated him," he would say at last, nodding
his head.--This solution is _typical_ of the Greeks, ... accordingly
the gods in those times subserved the functions of justifying man to a
certain extent even in evil--in those days they took upon themselves
not the punishment, but, what is more noble, the guilt.


24.

I conclude with three queries, as you will see. "Is an ideal actually
set up here, or is one pulled down?" I am perhaps asked.... But have
ye sufficiently asked yourselves how dear a payment has the setting up
of every ideal in the world exacted? To achieve that consummation how
much truth must always be traduced and misunderstood, how many lies
must be sanctified, how much conscience has got to be disturbed, how
many pounds of "God" have got to be sacrificed every time? To enable
a sanctuary to be set up _a sanctuary has got to be destroyed_: that
is a law--show me an instance where it has not been fulfilled!...
We modern men, we inherit the immemorial tradition of vivisecting
the conscience, and practising cruelty to our animal selves. That is
the sphere of our most protracted training, perhaps of our artistic
prowess, at any rate of our dilettantism and our perverted taste. Man
has for too long regarded his natural proclivities with an "evil eye,"
so that eventually they have become in his system affiliated to a
bad conscience. A converse endeavour would be intrinsically feasible
--but who is strong enough to attempt it?--namely, to affiliate to
the "bad conscience" all those _unnatural_ proclivities, all those
transcendental aspirations, contrary to sense, instinct, nature, and
animalism--in short, all past and present ideals, which are all ideals
opposed to life, and traducing the world. To whom is one to turn
nowadays with _such_ hopes and pretensions?--It is just the _good_
men that we should thus bring about our ears; and in addition, as
stands to reason, the indolent, the hedgers, the vain, the hysterical,
the tired.... What is more offensive or more thoroughly calculated
to alienate, than giving any hint of the exalted severity with which
we treat ourselves? And again how conciliatory, how full of love
does all the world show itself towards us so soon as we do as all
the world docs, and "let ourselves go" like all the world. For such
a consummation we need spirits of _different_ calibre than seems
really feasible in this age; spirits rendered potent through wars and
victories, to whom conquest, adventure, danger, even pain, have become
a need; for such a consummation we need habituation to sharp, rare air,
to winter wanderings, to literal and metaphorical ice and mountains; we
even need a kind of sublime malice, a supreme and most self-conscious
insolence of knowledge, which is the appanage of great health; we need
(to summarise the awful truth) just this _great health_!

Is this even feasible to-day?... But some day, in a stronger age
than this rotting and introspective present, must he in sooth come
to us, even the _redeemer_ of great love and scorn, the creative
spirit, rebounding by the impetus of his own force back again away
from every transcendental plane and dimension, he whose solitude
is misunderstanded (sic) of the people, as though it were a flight
_from_ reality;--while actually it is only his diving, burrowing, and
penetrating _into_ reality, so that when he comes again to the light
he can at once bring about by these means the _redemption_ of this
reality; its redemption from the curse which the old ideal has laid
upon it. This man of the future, who in this wise will redeem us from
the old ideal, as he will from that ideal's necessary corollary of
great nausea, will to nothingness, and Nihilism; this tocsin of noon
and of the great verdict, which renders the will again free, who gives
back to the world its goal and to man his hope, this Antichrist and
Antinihilist, this conqueror of God and of Nothingness--_he must one
day come_.


25.

But what am I talking of? Enough! Enough? At this juncture I have
only one proper course, silence: otherwise tresspass on a domain open
alone to one who is younger than I, one stronger, more "_future_" than
I--open alone to _Zarathustra, Zarathustra the godless._


[1] The German is: "_Sittlichkeit der Sitte_." H. B. S.

[2] The German world "_schuld_" means both debt and guilt. Cp. the
English "owe" and "ought," by which I occasionally render the double
meaning.--H. B. S.

[3] German: "_Verbrecher_."--H.B.S.

[4] An allusion to _Der Zweck im Recht_, by the great German jurist,
Professor Ihering.




THIRD ESSAY.


WHAT IS THE MEANING OF ASCETIC IDEALS?


"Careless, mocking, forceful--so does wisdom wish us: she is a woman,
and never loves any one but a warrior." Thus Spake Zarathustra.


1.

What is the meaning of ascetic ideals? In artists, nothing, or too
much; in philosophers and scholars, a kind of "flair" and instinct for
the conditions most favourable to advanced intellectualism; in women,
at best an _additional_ seductive fascination, a little _morbidezza_
on a fine piece of flesh, the angelhood of a fat, pretty animal; in
physiological failures and whiners (in the _majority_ of mortals),
an attempt to pose as "too good" for this world, a holy form of
debauchery, their chief weapon in the battle with lingering pain and
ennui; in priests, the actual priestly faith, their best engine of
power, and also the supreme authority for power; in saints, finally
a pretext for hibernation, their _novissima gloriæ cupido_, their
peace in nothingness ("God"), their form of madness.

But in the very fact that the ascetic ideal has meant so much to
man, lies expressed the fundamental feature of man's will, his
_horror vacui: he needs a goal_--and he will sooner will nothingness
than not will at all.--Am I not understood?--Have I not been
understood?--"Certainly not, sir?"--Well, let us begin at the beginning.


2.

What is the meaning of ascetic ideals? Or, to take an individual
case in regard to which I have often been consulted, what is the
meaning, for example, of an artist like Richard Wagner paying homage
to chastity in his old age? He had always done so, of course, in a
certain sense, but it was not till quite the end, that he did so in
an ascetic sense. What is the meaning of this "change of attitude,"
this radical revolution in his attitude--for that was what it was?
Wagner veered thereby straight round into his own opposite. What is
the meaning of an artist veering round into his own opposite? At
this point (granted that we do not mind stopping a little over this
question), we immediately call to mind the best, strongest, gayest,
and boldest period, that there perhaps ever was in Wagner's life: that
was the period, when he was genuinely and deeply occupied with the
idea of "Luther's Wedding." Who knows what chance is responsible for
our now having the _Meistersingers_ instead of this wedding music?
And how much in the latter is perhaps just an echo of the former? But
there is no doubt but that the theme would have dealt with the praise
of chastity. And certainly it would also have dealt with the praise
of sensuality, and even so, it would seem quite in order, and even
so, it would have been equally Wagnerian. For there is no necessary
antithesis between chastity and sensuality: every good marriage, every
authentic heart-felt love transcends this antithesis. Wagner would, it
seems to me, have done well to have brought this _pleasing_ reality
home once again to his Germans, by means of a bold and graceful "Luther
Comedy," for there were and are among the Germans many revilers of
sensuality; and perhaps Luther's greatest merit lies just in the fact
of his having had the courage of his _sensuality_ (it used to be
called, prettily enough, "evangelistic freedom "). But even in those
cases where that antithesis between chastity and sensuality does exist,
there has fortunately been for some time no necessity for it to be in
any way a tragic antithesis. This should, at any rate, be the case with
all beings who are sound in mind and body, who are far from reckoning
their delicate balance between "animal" and "angel," as being on the
face of it one of the principles opposed to existence--the most subtle
and brilliant spirits, such as Goethe, such as Hafiz,> have even seen
in this a _further_ charm of life. Such "conflicts" actually allure
one to life. On the other hand, it is only too clear that when once
these ruined swine are reduced to worshipping chastity--and there
are such swine--they only see and worship in it the antithesis to
themselves, the antithesis to ruined swine. Oh what a tragic grunting
and eagerness! You can just think of it--they worship that painful
and superfluous contrast, which Richard Wagner in his latter days
undoubtedly wished to set to music, and to place on the stage! "_For
what purpose, forsooth?_" as we may reasonably ask. What did the swine
matter to him; what do they matter to us?


3.

At this point it is impossible to beg the further question of what he
really had to do with that manly (ah, so unmanly) country bumpkin,
that poor devil and natural, Parsifal, whom he eventually made a
Catholic by such fraudulent devices. What? Was this Parsifal really
meant _seriously_? One might be tempted to suppose the contrary, even
to wish it--that the Wagnerian Parsifal was meant joyously, like a
concluding play of a trilogy or satyric drama, in which Wagner the
tragedian wished to take farewell of us, of himself, above all of
tragedy, and to do so in a manner that should be quite fitting and
worthy, that is, with an excess of the most extreme and flippant parody
of the tragic itself, of the ghastly earthly seriousness and earthly
woe of old--a parody of that _most crude phase_ in the unnaturalness
of the ascetic ideal, that had at length been overcome. That, as I
have said, would have been quite worthy of a great tragedian; who like
every artist first attains the supreme pinnacle of his greatness when
he can look _down_ into himself and his art, when he can _laugh_ at
himself. Is Wagner's Parsifal his secret laugh of superiority over
himself, the triumph of that supreme artistic freedom and artistic
transcendency which he has at length attained. We might, I repeat,
wish it were so, for what can Parsifal, _taken seriously_, amount to?
Is it really necessary to see in it (according to an expression once
used against me) the product of an insane hate of knowledge, mind,
and flesh? A curse on flesh and spirit in one breath of hate? An
apostasy and reversion to the morbid Christian and obscurantist ideals?
And finally a self-negation and self-elimination on the part of an
artist, who till then had devoted all the strength of his will to the
contrary, namely, the _highest_ artistic expression of soul and body.
And not only of his art; of his life as well. Just remember with what
enthusiasm Wagner followed in the footsteps of Feuerbach. Feuerbach's
motto of "healthy sensuality" rang in the ears of Wagner during the
thirties and forties of the century, as it did in the ears of many
Germans (they dubbed themselves "_Young_ Germans"), like the word of
redemption. Did he eventually _change his mind_ on the subject? For it
seems at any rate that he eventually wished to _change his teaching_
on that subject ... and not only is that the case with the Parsifal
trumpets on the stage: in the melancholy, cramped, and embarrassed
lucubrations of his later years, there are a hundred places in which
there are manifestations of a secret wish and will, a despondent,
uncertain, unavowed will to preach actual retrogression, conversion,
Christianity, mediævalism, and to say to his disciples, "All is vanity!
Seek salvation elsewhere!" Even the "blood of the Redeemer" is once
invoked.


4.

Let me speak out my mind in a case like this, which has many painful
elements--and it is a typical case: it is certainly best to separate
an artist from his work so completely that he cannot be taken as
seriously as his work. He is after all merely the presupposition of
his work, the womb, the soil, in certain cases the dung and manure,
on which and out of which it grows--and consequently, in most cases,
something that must be forgotten if the work itself is to be enjoyed.
The insight into the _origin_ of a work is a matter for psychologists
and vivisectors, but never either in the present or the future for the
æsthetes, the artists. The author and creator of Parsifal was as little
spared the necessity of sinking and living himself into the terrible
depths and foundations of mediæval soul-contrasts, the necessity of a
malignant abstraction from all intellectual elevation, severity, and
discipline, the necessity of a kind of mental perversity (if the reader
will pardon me such a word), as little as a pregnant woman is spared
the horrors and marvels of pregnancy, which, as I have said, must
be forgotten if the child is to be enjoyed. We must guard ourselves
against the confusion, into which an artist himself would fall only
too easily (to employ the English terminology) out of psychological
"contiguity"; as though the artist himself actually were the object
which he is able to represent, imagine, and express. In point of fact,
the position is that even if he conceived he were such an object, he
would certainly not represent, conceive, express it. Homer would not
have created an Achilles, nor Goethe a Faust, if Homer had been an
Achilles or if Goethe had been a Faust. A complete and perfect artist
is to all eternity separated from the "real," from the actual; on the
other hand, it will be appreciated that he can at times get tired to
the point of despair of this eternal "unreality" and falseness of his
innermost being--and that he then sometimes attempts to trespass on
to the most forbidden ground, on reality, and attempts to have real
_existence_. With what success? The success will be guessed--it is the
_typical velleity_ of the artist; the same velleity to which Wagner
fell a victim in his old age, and for which he had to pay so dearly and
so fatally (he lost thereby his most valuable friends). But after all,
quite apart from this velleity, who would not wish emphatically for
Wagner's own sake that he had taken farewell of us and of his art in a
_different_ manner, not with a _Parsifal_, but in more victorious, more
self-confident, more Wagnerian style--a style less misleading, a style
less ambiguous with regard to his whole meaning, less Schopenhauerian,
less Nihilistic?...


5.

What, then, is the meaning of ascetic ideals? In the case of an artist
we are getting to understand their meaning: _Nothing at all_ ... or so
much that it is as good as nothing at all. Indeed, what is the use of
them? Our artists have for a long time past not taken up a sufficiently
independent attitude, either in the world or against it, to warrant
their valuations and the changes in these valuations exciting interest.
At all times they have played the valet of some morality, philosophy,
or religion, quite apart from the fact that unfortunately they
have often enough been the inordinately supple courtiers of their
clients and patrons, and the inquisitive toadies of the powers that
are existing, or even of the new powers to come. To put it at the
lowest, they always need a rampart, a support, an already constituted
authority: artists never stand by themselves, standing alone is opposed
to their deepest instincts. So, for example, did _Richard Wagner_
take, "when the time had come," the philosopher Schopenhauer for his
covering man in front, for his rampart. Who would consider it even
thinkable, that he would have had the _courage_ for an ascetic ideal,
without the support afforded him by the philosophy of Schopenhauer,
without the authority of Schopenhauer, which _dominated_ Europe in the
seventies? (This is without consideration of the question whether an
artist without the milk[1] of an orthodoxy would have been possible at
all.) This brings us to the more serious question: What is the meaning
of a real _philosopher_ paying homage to the ascetic ideal, a really
self-dependent intellect like Schopenhauer, a man and knight with a
glance of bronze, who has the courage to be himself, who knows how to
stand alone without first waiting for men who cover him in front, and
the nods of his superiors? Let us now consider at once the remarkable
attitude of Schopenhauer towards _art_, an attitude which has even a
fascination for certain types. For that is obviously the reason why
Richard Wagner _all at once_ went over to Schopenhauer (persuaded
thereto, as one knows, by a poet, Herwegh), went over so completely
that there ensued the cleavage of a complete theoretic contradiction
between his earlier and his later æsthetic faiths--the earlier, for
example, being expressed in _Opera and Drama_, the later in the
writings which he published from 1870 onwards. In particular, Wagner
from that time onwards (and this is the volte-face which alienates us
the most) had no scruples about changing his judgment concerning the
value and position of music itself. What did he care if up to that time
he had made of music a means, a medium, a "woman," that in order to
thrive needed an end, a man--that is, the drama? He suddenly realised
that _more_ could be effected by the novelty of the Schopenhauerian
theory in _majorem musicæ gloriam_--that is to say, by means of the
_sovereignty_ of music, as Schopenhauer understood it; music abstracted
from and opposed to all the other arts, music as the independent
art-in-itself, _not_ like the other arts, affording reflections of the
phenomenal world, but rather the language of the will itself, speaking
straight out of the "abyss" as its most personal, original, and direct
manifestation. This extraordinary rise in the value of music (a rise
which seemed to grow out of the Schopenhauerian philosophy) was at
once accompanied by an unprecedented rise in the estimation in which
the musician himself was held: he became now an oracle, a priest, nay,
more than a priest, a kind of mouthpiece for the "intrinsic essence
of things," a telephone from the other world--from henceforward
he talked not only music, did this ventriloquist of God, he talked
metaphysic; what wonder that one day he eventually talked _ascetic
ideals_.


6.

Schopenhauer has made use of the Kantian treatment of the æsthetic
problem--though he certainly did not regard it with the Kantian eyes.
Kant thought that he showed honour to art when he favoured and placed
in the foreground those of the predicates of the beautiful, which
constitute the honour of knowledge: impersonality and universality.
This is not the place to discuss whether this was not a complete
mistake; all that I wish to emphasise is that Kant, just like other
philosophers, instead of envisaging the æsthetic problem from the
standpoint of the experiences of the artist (the creator), has only
considered art and beauty from the standpoint of the spectator, and
has thereby imperceptibly imported the spectator himself into the idea
of the "beautiful"! But if only the philosophers of the beautiful had
sufficient knowledge of this "spectator"!--Knowledge of him as a great
fact of personality, as a great experience, as a wealth of strong and
most individual events, desires, surprises, and raptures in the sphere
of beauty! But, as I feared, the contrary was always the case. And so
we get from our philosophers, from the very beginning, definitions
on which the lack of a subtler personal experience squats like a fat
worm of crass error, as it does on Kant's famous definition of the
beautiful. "That is beautiful," says Kant, "which pleases without
interesting." Without interesting! Compare this definition with this
other one, made by a real "spectator" and "artist"--by Stendhal, who
once called the beautiful _une promesse de bonheur_. Here, at any rate,
the one point which Kant makes prominent in the æsthetic position is
repudiated and eliminated--_le désintéressement_. Who is right, Kant
or Stendhal? When, forsooth, our æsthetes never get tired of throwing
into the scales in Kant's favour the fact that under the magic of
beauty men can look at even naked female statues "without interest,"
we can certainly laugh a little at their expense:--in regard to this
ticklish point the experiences of _artists_ are more "interesting,"
and at any rate Pygmalion was not necessarily an "unæsthetic man." Let
us think all the better of the innocence of our æsthetes, reflected
as it is in such arguments; let us, for instance, count to Kant's
honour the country-parson naïveté of his doctrine concerning the
peculiar character of the sense of touch! And here we come back to
Schopenhauer, who stood in much closer neighbourhood to the arts
than did Kant, and yet never escaped outside the pale of the Kantian
definition; how was that? The circumstance is marvellous enough: he
interprets the expression, "without interest," in the most personal
fashion, out of an experience which must in his case have been part and
parcel of his regular routine. On few subjects does Schopenhauer speak
with such certainty as on the working of æsthetic contemplation: he
says of it that it simply counteracts sexual interest, like lupulin
and camphor; he never gets tired of glorifying this escape from
the "Life-will" as the great advantage and utility of the æsthetic
state. In fact, one is tempted to ask if his fundamental conception
of Will and Idea, the thought that there can only exist freedom from
the "will" by means of "idea," did not originate in a generalisation
from this sexual experience. (In all questions concerning the
Schopenhauerian philosophy, one should, by the bye, never lose sight of
the consideration that it is the conception of a youth of twenty-six,
so that it participates not only in what is peculiar to Schopenhauer's
life, but in what is peculiar to that special period of his life.)
Let us listen, for instance, to one of the most expressive among the
countless passages which he has written in honour of the æsthetic
state (_World as Will and Idea_, i. 231); let us listen to the tone,
the suffering, the happiness, the gratitude, with which such words
are uttered: "This is the painless state which Epicurus praised as
the highest good and as the state of the gods; we are during that
moment freed from the vile pressure of the will, we celebrate the
Sabbath of the will's hard labour, the wheel of Ixion stands still."
What vehemence of language! What images of anguish and protracted
revulsion! How almost pathological is that temporal antithesis between
"that moment" and everything else, the "wheel of Ixion," "the hard
labour of the will," "the vile pressure of the will." But granted
that Schopenhauer was a hundred times right for himself personally,
how does that help our insight into the nature of the beautiful?
Schopenhauer has described one effect of the beautiful,--the calming
of the will,--but is this effect really normal? As has been mentioned,
Stendhal, an equally sensual but more happily constituted nature than
Schopenhauer, gives prominence to another effect of the "beautiful."
"The beautiful promises happiness." To him it is just the excitement
of the "will"(the "interest") by the beauty that seems the essential
fact. And does not Schopenhauer ultimately lay himself open to the
objection, that he is quite wrong in regarding himself as a Kantian on
this point, that he has absolutely failed to understand in a Kantian
sense the Kantian definition of the beautiful--;that the beautiful
pleased him as well by means of an interest, by means, in fact, of the
strongest and most personal interest of all, that: of the victim of
torture who escapes from his torture?--And to come back again to our
first question, "What is the meaning of a philosopher paying homage to
ascetic ideals?" We get now, at any rate, a first hint; he wishes to
escape _from a torture_.


7.

Let us beware of making dismal faces at the word "torture"--there is
certainly in this case enough to deduct, enough to discount--there is
even something to laugh at. For we must certainly not underestimate
the fact that Schopenhauer, who in practice treated sexuality as
a personal enemy (including its tool, woman, that "_instrumentum
diaboli_"), needed enemies to keep him in a good humour; that he loved
grim, bitter, blackish-green words; that he raged for the sake of
raging, out of passion; that he would have grown ill, would have become
a _pessimist_ (for he was not a pessimist, however much he wished to
be), without his enemies, without Hegel, woman, sensuality, and the
whole "will for existence" "keeping on." Without them Schopenhauer
would not have "kept on," that is a safe wager; he would have run away:
but his enemies held him fast, his enemies always enticed him back
again to existence, his wrath was just as theirs' was to the ancient
Cynics, his balm, his recreation, his recompense, his _remedium_
against disgust, his _happiness_. So much with regard to what is most
personal in the case of Schopenhauer; on the other hand, there is
still much which is typical in him--and only now we come back to our
problem. It is an accepted and indisputable fact, so long as there
are philosophers in the world and wherever philosophers have existed
(from India to England, to take the opposite poles of philosophic
ability), that there exists a real irritation and rancour on the part
of philosophers towards sensuality. Schopenhauer is merely the most
eloquent, and if one has the ear for it, also the most fascinating
and enchanting outburst. There similarly exists a real philosophic
bias and affection for the whole ascetic ideal; there should be no
illusions on this score. Both these feelings, as has been said, belong
to the type; if a philosopher lacks both of them, then he is--you may
be certain of it--never anything but a "pseudo." What does this mean?
For this state of affairs must first be, interpreted: in itself it
stands there stupid, to all eternity, like any "Thing-in-itself." Every
animal, including la bête philosophe, strives instinctively after an
_optimum_ of favourable conditions, under which he can let his whole
strength have play, and achieves his maximum consciousness of power;
with equal instinctiveness, and with a fine perceptive flair which is
superior to any reason, every animal shudders mortally at every kind
of disturbance and hindrance which obstructs or could obstruct his way
to that optimum (it is not his way to happiness of which I am talking,
but his way to power, to action, the most powerful action, and in
point of fact in many cases his way to unhappiness). Similarly, the
philosopher shudders mortally at <b>marriage</b>, together with all
that could persuade him to it--marriage as a fatal hindrance on the
way to the _optimum_. Up to the present what great philosophers have
been married? Heracleitus, Plato, Descartes, Spinoza, Leibnitz, Kant,
Schopenhauer--they were not married, and, further, one cannot _imagine_
them as married. A married philosopher belongs to _comedy_, that is
my rule; as for that exception of a Socrates--the malicious Socrates
married himself, it seems, _ironice_, just to prove this _very_ rule.
Every philosopher would say, as Buddha said, when the birth of a son
was announced to him: "Râhoula has been born to me, a fetter has been
forged for me" (Râhoula means here "a little demon"); there must come
an hour of reflection to every "free spirit" (granted that he has had
previously an hour of thoughtlessness), just as one came once to the
same Buddha: "Narrowly cramped," he reflected, "is life in the house;
it is a place of uncleanness; freedom is found in leaving the house."
Because he thought like this, he left the house. So many bridges to
independence are shown in the ascetic idea], that the philosopher
cannot refrain from exultation and clapping of hands when he hears
the history of all those resolute ones, who on one day uttered a nay
to all servitude and went into some _desert_; even granting that they
were only strong asses, and the absolute opposite of strong minds.
What, then, does the ascetic ideal mean in a philosopher? This is my
answer--it will have been guessed long ago: when he sees this ideal
the philosopher smiles because he sees therein an _optimum_ of the
conditions of the highest and boldest intellectuality; he does not
thereby deny "existence," he rather affirms thereby _his_ existence
and _only_ his existence, and this perhaps to the point of not being
far off the blasphemous wish, _pereat mundus, fiat philosophia, fiat
philosophus, fiam!_


8.

These philosophers, you see, are by no means uncorrupted witnesses and
judges of the _value_ of the ascetic ideal. They think _of themselves_
--what is the "saint" to them? They think of that which to them
personally is most indispensable; of freedom from compulsion,
disturbance, noise: freedom from business, duties, cares; of clear
head; of the dance, spring, and flight of thoughts; of good air--rare,
clear, free, dry, as is the air on the heights, in which every animal
creature becomes more intellectual and gains wings; they think of
peace in every cellar; all the hounds neatly chained; no baying of
enmity and uncouth rancour; no remorse of wounded ambition; quiet
and submissive internal organs, busy as mills, but unnoticed; the
heart alien, transcendent, future, posthumous--to summarise, they
mean by the ascetic ideal the joyous asceticism of a deified and
newly fledged animal, sweeping over life rather than resting. We know
what are the three great catch-words of the ascetic ideal: poverty,
humility, chastity; and now just look closely at the life of all
the great fruitful inventive spirits--you will always find again
and again these three qualities up to a certain extent. _Not_ for a
minute, as is self-evident, as though, perchance, they were part of
their virtues--what has this type of man to do with virtues?--but as
the most essential and natural conditions of their _best_ existence,
their _finest_ fruitfulness. In this connection it is quite possible
that their predominant intellectualism had first to curb an unruly and
irritable pride, or an insolent sensualism, or that it had all its
work cut out to maintain its wish for the "desert" against perhaps
an inclination to luxury and dilettantism, or similarly against an
extravagant liberality of heart and hand. But their intellect did
effect all this, simply because it was the _dominant_ instinct, which
carried through its orders in the case of all the other instincts.
It effects it still; if it ceased to do so, it would simply not be
dominant. But there is not one iota of "virtue" in all this. Further,
the _desert_, of which I just spoke, in which the strong, independent,
and well-equipped spirits retreat into their hermitage--oh, how
different is it from the cultured classes' dream of a desert! In
certain cases, in fact, the cultured classes themselves are the desert.
And it is certain that all the actors of the intellect would not endure
this desert for a minute. It is nothing like romantic and Syrian enough
for them, nothing like enough of a stage desert! Here as well there
are plenty of asses, but at this point the resemblance ceases. But a
desert nowadays is something like this--perhaps a deliberate obscurity;
a getting-out-of the way of one's self; a fear of noise, admiration,
papers, influence; a little office, a daily task, something that hides
rather than brings to light; sometimes associating with harmless,
cheerful beasts and fowls, the sight of which refreshes; a mountain for
company, but not a dead one, one with _eyes_ (that is, with lakes);
in certain cases even a room in a crowded hotel where one can reckon
on not being recognised, and on being able to talk with impunity to
every one: here is the desert--oh, it is lonely enough, believe me!
I grant that when Heracleitus retreated to the courts and cloisters
of the colossal temple of Artemis, that "wilderness" was worthier;
why do we _lack_ such temples? (perchance we do not lack them: I just
think of my splendid study in the _Piazza di San Marco_, in spring, of
course, and in the morning, between ten and twelve). But that which
Heracleitus shunned is still just what we too avoid nowadays: the
noise and democratic babble of the Ephesians, their politics, their
news from the "empire" (I mean, of course, Persia), their market-trade
in "the things of to-day "--for there is one thing from which we
philosophers especially need a rest--from the things of "to-day." We
honour the silent, the cold, the noble, the far, the past, everything,
in fact, at the sight of which the soul is not bound to brace itself up
and defend itself--something with which one can speak without _speaking
aloud_. Just listen now to the tone a spirit has when it speaks; every
spirit has its own tone and loves its own tone. That thing yonder, for
instance, is bound to be an agitator, that is, a hollow head, a hollow
mug: whatever may go into him, everything comes back from him dull and
thick, heavy with the echo of the great void. That spirit yonder nearly
always speaks hoarse: has he, perchance, _thought_ himself hoarse?
It may be so--ask the physiologists--but he who thinks in _words_,
thinks as a speaker and not as a thinker (it shows that he does not
think of objects or think objectively, but only of his relations
with objects--that, in point of fact, he only thinks of himself and
his audience). This third one speaks aggressively, he comes too near
our body, his breath blows on us--we shut our mouth involuntarily,
although he speaks to us through a book: the tone of his style supplies
the reason--he has no time, he has small faith in himself, he finds
expression now or never. But a spirit who is sure of himself speaks
softly; he seeks secrecy, he lets himself be awaited, A philosopher
is recognised by the fact that he shuns three brilliant and noisy
things--fame, princes, and women: which is not to say that they do not
come to him. He shuns every glaring light: therefore he shuns his time
and its "daylight." Therein he is as a shadow; the deeper sinks the
sun, the greater grows the shadow. As for his humility, he endures, as
he endures darkness, a certain dependence and obscurity: further, he is
afraid of the shock of lightning, he shudders at the insecurity of a
tree which is too isolated and too exposed, on which every storm vents
its temper, every temper its storm. His "maternal" instinct, his secret
love for that which grows in him, guides him into states where he is
relieved from the necessity of taking care of _himself_, in the same
way in which the "_mother_" instinct in woman has thoroughly maintained
up to the present woman's dependent position. After all, they demand
little enough, do these philosophers, their favourite motto is, "He
who possesses is possessed." All this is _not_, as I must say again
and again, to be attributed to a virtue, to a meritorious wish for
moderation and simplicity; but because their supreme lord so demands
of them, demands wisely and inexorably; their lord who is eager only
for one thing, for which alone he musters, and for which alone he
hoards everything--time, strength, love, interest. This kind of man
likes not to be disturbed by enmity, he likes not to be disturbed by
friendship, it is a type which forgets or despises easily. It strikes
him as bad form to play the martyr, "to _suffer_ for truth"--he leaves
all that to the ambitious and to the stage-heroes of the intellect,
and to all those, in fact, who have time enough for such luxuries
(they themselves, the philosophers, have something _to do_ for truth).
They make a sparing use of big words; they are said to be adverse to
the word "truth" itself: it has a "high falutin'" ring. Finally, as
far as the chastity of philosophers is concerned, the fruitfulness
of this type of mind is manifestly in another sphere than that of
children; perchance in some other sphere, too, they have the survival
of their name, their little immortality (philosophers in ancient
India would express themselves with still greater boldness: "Of what
use is posterity to him whose soul is the world?"). In this attitude
there is not a trace of chastity, by reason of any ascetic scruple or
hatred of the flesh, any more than it is chastity for an athlete or a
jockey to abstain from women; it is rather the will of the dominant
instinct, at any rate, during the period of their advanced philosophic
pregnancy. Every artist knows the harm done by sexual intercourse
on occasions of great mental strain and preparation; as far as the
strongest artists and those with the surest instincts are concerned,
this is not necessarily a case of experience--hard experience--but it
is simply their "maternal" instinct which, in order to benefit the
growing work, disposes recklessly (beyond all its normal stocks and
supplies) of the _vigour_ of its _animal_ life; the greater power then
_absorbs_ the lesser. Let us now apply this interpretation to gauge
correctly the case of Schopenhauer, which we have already mentioned: in
his case, the sight of the beautiful acted manifestly like a resolving
irritant on the chief power of his nature (the power of contemplation
and of intense penetration); so that this strength exploded and became
suddenly master of his consciousness. But this by no means excludes
the possibility of that particular sweetness and fulness, which is
peculiar to the æsthetic state, springing directly from the ingredient
of sensuality (just as that "idealism" which is peculiar to girls at
puberty originates in the same source)--it may be, consequently, that
sensuality is not removed by the approach of the æsthetic state, as
Schopenhauer believed, but merely becomes transfigured, and ceases to
enter into the consciousness as sexual excitement. (I shall return once
again to this point in connection with the more delicate problems of
the _physiology of the æsthetic_, a subject which up to the present has
been singularly untouched and unelucidated.)


9.

A certain asceticism, a grimly gay whole-hearted renunciation, is, as
we have seen, one of the most favourable conditions for the highest
intellectualism, and, consequently, for the most natural corollaries
of such intellectualism: we shall therefore be proof against any
surprise at the philosophers in particular always treating the ascetic
ideal with a certain amount of predilection. A serious historical
investigation shows the bond between the ascetic ideal and philosophy
to be still much tighter and still much stronger. It may be said that
it was only in the _leading strings_ of this ideal that philosophy
really learnt to make its first steps and baby paces--alas how
clumsily, alas how crossly, alas how ready to tumble down and lie on
its stomach was this shy little darling of a brat with its bandy legs!
The early history of philosophy is like that of all good things;--for a
long time they had not the courage to be themselves, they kept always
looking round to see if no one would come to their help; further, they
were afraid of all who looked at them. Just enumerate in order the
particular tendencies and virtues of the philosopher--his tendency to
doubt, his tendency to deny, his tendency to wait (to be "ephectic"),
his tendency to analyse, search, explore, dare, his tendency to compare
and to equalise, his will to be neutral and objective, his will for
everything which is "_sine ira et studio_":--has it yet been realised
that for quite a lengthy period these tendencies went counter to the
first claims of morality and conscience? (To say nothing at all of
_Reason_, which even Luther chose to call _Frau Klüglin_,[2] the sly
whore.) Has it been yet appreciated that a philosopher, in the event
of his _arriving_ at self-consciousness, must needs feel himself an
incarnate "nitimur in vetitum"--and consequently guard himself against
"his own sensations," against self-consciousness? It is, I repeat, just
the same with all good things, on which we now pride ourselves; even
judged by the standard of the ancient Greeks, our whole modern life,
in so far as it is not weakness, but power and the consciousness of
power, appears pure "Hybris" and godlessness: for the things which are
the very reverse of those which we honour to-day, have had for a long
time conscience on their side, and God as their guardian. "Hybris"
is our whole attitude to nature nowadays, our violation of nature
with the help of machinery, and all the unscrupulous ingenuity of our
scientists and engineers. "Hybris" is our attitude to God, that is, to
some alleged teleological and ethical spider behind the meshes of the
great trap of the causal web. Like Charles the Bold in his war with
Louis the Eleventh, we may say, "je combats l'universelle araignée";
"Hybris" is our attitude to ourselves--for we experiment with ourselves
in a way that we would not allow with any animal, and with pleasure
and curiosity open our soul in our living body: what matters now to
us the "salvation" of the soul? We heal ourselves afterwards: being
ill is instructive, we doubt it not, even more instructive than being
well--inoculators of disease seem to us to-day even more necessary
than any medicine-men and "saviours." There is no doubt we do violence
to ourselves nowadays, we crackers of the soul's kernel, we incarnate
riddles, who are ever asking riddles, as though life were naught else
than the cracking of a nut; and even thereby must we necessarily become
day by day more and more worthy to be asked questions and worthy to ask
them, even thereby do we perchance also become worthier to--live?

... All good things were once bad things; from every original sin has
grown an original virtue. Marriage, for example, seemed for a long time
a sin against the rights of the community; a man formerly paid a fine
for the insolence of claiming one woman to himself (to this phase
belongs, for instance, the _jus primæ noctis_, to-day still in Cambodia
the privilege of the priest, that guardian of the "good old customs").

The soft, benevolent, yielding, sympathetic feelings--eventually valued
so highly that they almost became "intrinsic values," were for a very
long time actually despised by their possessors: gentleness was then
a subject for shame, just as hardness is now (compare _Beyond Good
and Evil_, Aph. 260). The submission to law: oh, with what qualms of
conscience was it that the noble races throughout the world renounced
the _vendetta_ and gave the law power over themselves! Law was long a
_vetitum_, a blasphemy, an innovation; it was introduced with force,
like a force, to which men only submitted with a sense of personal
shame. Every tiny step forward in the world was formerly made at
the cost of mental and physical torture. Nowadays the whole of this
point of view--"that not only stepping forward, nay, stepping at all,
movement, change, all needed their countless martyrs," rings in our
ears quite strangely. I have put it forward in the _Dawn of Day_, Aph.
18. "Nothing is purchased more dearly," says the same book a little
later, "than the modicum of human reason and freedom which is now our
pride. But that pride is the reason why it is now almost impossible
for us to feel in sympathy with those immense periods of the 'Morality
of Custom,' which lie at the beginning of the 'world's history,'
constituting as they do the real decisive historical principle which
has fixed the character of humanity; those periods, I repeat, when
throughout the world suffering passed for virtue, cruelty for virtue,
deceit for virtue, revenge for virtue, repudiation of the reason for
virtue; and when, conversely, well-being passed current for danger, the
desire for knowledge for danger, pity for danger, peace for danger,
being pitied for shame, work for shame, madness for divinity, and
_change_ for immorality and incarnate corruption!"


10.

There is in the same book, Aph. 12, an explanation of the _burden_
of unpopularity under which the earliest race of contemplative men
had to live--despised almost as widely as they were first feared!
Contemplation first appeared on earth in a disguised shape, in an
ambiguous form, with an evil heart and often with an uneasy head:
there is no doubt about it. The inactive, brooding, unwarlike element
in the instincts of contemplative men long invested them with a cloud
of suspicion: the only way to combat this was to excite a definite
_fear_. And the old Brahmans, for example, knew to a nicety how to do
this! The oldest philosophers were well versed in giving to their very
existence and appearance, meaning, firmness, background, by reason
whereof men learnt to _fear_ them; considered more precisely, they
did this from an even more fundamental need, the need of inspiring
in themselves fear and self-reverence. For they found even in their
own souls all the valuations turned _against_ themselves; they had
to fight down every kind of suspicion and antagonism against "the
philosophic element in themselves." Being men of a terrible age,
they did this with terrible means: cruelty to themselves, ingenious
self-mortification--this was the chief method of these ambitious
hermits and intellectual revolutionaries, who were obliged to force
down the gods and the traditions of their own soul, so as to enable
themselves to _believe_ in their own revolution. I remember the famous
story of the King Vicvamitra, who, as the result of a thousand years
of self-martyrdom, reached such a consciousness of power and such a
confidence in himself that he undertook to build a _new heaven_: the
sinister symbol of the oldest and newest history of philosophy in the
whole world. Every one who has ever built anywhere a "_new heaven_"
first found the power thereto in his _own hell_.. .. Let us compress
the facts into a short formula. The philosophic spirit had, in order
to be _possible_ to any extent at all, to masquerade and disguise
itself as one of the _previously fixed_ types of the contemplative
man, to disguise itself as priest, wizard, soothsayer, as a religious
man generally: the _ascetic ideal_ has for a long time served the
philosopher as a superficial form, as a condition which enabled him
to exist. .. . To be able to be a philosopher he had to exemplify the
ideal; to exemplify it, he was bound to _believe_ in it. The peculiarly
etherealised abstraction of philosophers, with their negation of the
world, their enmity to life, their disbelief in the senses, which has
been maintained up to the most recent time, and has almost thereby come
to be accepted as the ideal _philosophic attitude_--this abstraction
is the result of those enforced conditions under which philosophy
came into existence, and continued to exist; inasmuch as for quite
a very long time philosophy would have been _absolutely impossible_
in the world without an ascetic cloak and dress, without an ascetic
self-misunderstanding. Expressed plainly and palpably, the _ascetic
priest_ has taken the repulsive and sinister form of the caterpillar,
beneath which and behind which alone philosophy could live and slink
about.. ..

Has all that really changed? Has that flamboyant and dangerous winged
creature, that "spirit" which that caterpillar concealed within itself,
has it, I say, thanks to a sunnier, warmer, lighter world, really
and finally flung off its hood and escaped into the light? Can we
to-day point to enough pride, enough daring, enough courage, enough
self-confidence, enough mental will, enough will for responsibility,
enough freedom of the will, to enable the philosopher to be now in the
world really--_possible_?


11.

And now, after we have caught sight of the _ascetic priest_, let us
tackle our problem. What is the meaning of the ascetic ideal? It now
first becomes serious--vitally serious. We are now confronted with the
_real representatives of the serious_. "What is the meaning of all
seriousness?" This even more radical question is perchance already
on the tip of our tongue: a question, fairly, for physiologists, but
which we for the time being skip. In that ideal the ascetic priest
finds not only his faith, but also his will, his power, his interest.
His _right_ to existence stands and falls with that ideal. What wonder
that we here run up against a terrible opponent (on the supposition,
of course, that we are the opponents of that ideal), an opponent
fighting for his life against those who repudiate that ideal!. .. On
the other hand, it is from the outset improbable that such a biased
attitude towards our problem will do him any particular good; the
ascetic priest himself will scarcely prove the happiest champion of
his own ideal (on the same principle on which a woman usually fails
when she wishes to champion "woman")--let alone proving the most
objective critic and judge of the controversy now raised. We shall
therefore--so much is already obvious--rather have actually to help
him to defend himself properly against ourselves, than we shall have
to fear being too well beaten by him. The idea, which is the subject
of this dispute, is the value of our life from the standpoint of the
ascetic priests: this life, then (together with the whole of which it
is a part, "Nature," "the world," the whole sphere of becoming and
passing away), is placed by them in relation to an existence of quite
another character, which it excludes and to which it is opposed, unless
it _deny_ its own self: in this case, the case of an ascetic life,
life is taken as a bridge to another existence. The ascetic treats
life as a maze, in which one must walk backwards till one comes to the
place where it starts; or he treats it as an error which one may, nay
_must_, refute by action: for he demands that he should be followed;
he enforces, where he can, his valuation of existence. What does this
mean? Such a monstrous valuation is not an exceptional case, or a
curiosity recorded in human history: it is one of the most general
and persistent facts that there are. The reading from the vantage
of a distant star of the capital letters of our earthly life, would
perchance lead to the conclusion that the earth was the especially
_ascetic planet_, a den of discontented, arrogant, and repulsive
creatures, who never got rid of a deep disgust of themselves, of the
world, of all life, and did themselves as much hurt as possible out
of pleasure in hurting--presumably their one and only pleasure. Let
us consider how regularly, how universally, how practically at every
single period the ascetic priest puts in his appearance: he belongs to
no particular race; he thrives everywhere; he grows out of all classes.
Not that he perhaps bred this valuation by heredity and propagated
it--the contrary is the case. It must be a necessity of the first order
which makes this species, hostile, as it is, to _life_, always grow
again and always thrive again.--_Life_ itself must certainly _have an
interest_ in the continuance of such a type of self-contradiction. For
an ascetic life is a self-contradiction: here rules resentment without
parallel, the resentment of an insatiate instinct and ambition, that
would be master, not over some element in life, but over life itself,
over life's deepest, strongest, innermost conditions; here is an
attempt made to utilise power to dam the sources of power; here does
the green eye of jealousy turn even against physiological well-being,
especially against the expression of such well-being, beauty, joy;
while a sense of pleasure is experienced and _sought_ in abortion, in
decay, in pain, in misfortune, in ugliness, in voluntary punishment,
in the exercising, flagellation, and sacrifice of the self. All this
is in the highest degree paradoxical: we are here confronted with a
rift that _wills_ itself to be a rift, which _enjoys_ itself in this
very _suffering_, and even becomes more and more certain of itself,
more and more triumphant, in proportion as its own presupposition,
physiological vitality, _decreases_. "The triumph just in the supreme
agony ": under this extravagant emblem did the ascetic ideal fight from
of old; in this mystery of seduction, in this picture of rapture and
torture, it recognised its brightest light, its salvation, its final
victory. _Crux, nux, lux_--it has all these three in one.


12.

Granted that such an incarnate will for contradiction and unnaturalness
is induced to _philosophise_; on what will it vent its pet caprice?
On that which has been felt with the greatest certainty to be true,
to be real; it will look for _error_ in those very places where the
life instinct fixes truth with the greatest positiveness. It will, for
instance, after the example of the ascetics of the Vedanta Philosophy,
reduce matter to an illusion, and similarly treat pain, multiplicity,
the whole logical contrast of "_Subject_" and "_Object_"--errors,
nothing but errors! To renounce the belief in one's own ego, to
deny to one's self one's own "reality"--what a triumph! and here
already we have a much higher kind of triumph, which is not merely
a triumph over the senses, over the palpable, but an infliction of
violence and cruelty on _reason_; and this ecstasy culminates in the
ascetic self-contempt, the ascetic scorn of one's own reason making
this decree: _there is_ a domain of truth and of life, but reason is
specially _excluded_ therefrom.. .. By the bye, even in the Kantian
idea of "the intellegible character of things" there remains a trace
of that schism, so dear to the heart of the ascetic, that schism
which likes to turn reason against reason; in fact, "intelligible
character" means in Kant a kind of quality in things of which the
intellect comprehends this much, that for it, the intellect, it is
_absolutely incomprehensible_. After all, let us, in our character
of knowers, not be ungrateful towards such determined reversals of
the ordinary perspectives and values, with which the mind had for
too long raged against itself with an apparently futile sacrilege!
In the same way the very seeing of another vista, the very _wishing_
to see another vista, is no little training and preparation of the
intellect for its eternal "_Objectivity_"--objectivity being understood
not as "contemplation without interest" (for that is inconceivable
and non-sensical), but as the ability to have the pros and cons _in
one's power_ and to switch them on and off, so as to get to know how
to utilise, for the advancement of knowledge, the _difference_ in
the perspective and in the emotional interpretations. But let us,
forsooth, my philosophic colleagues, henceforward guard ourselves more
carefully against this mythology of dangerous ancient ideas, which has
set up a "pure, will-less, painless, timeless subject of knowledge";
let us guard ourselves from the tentacles of such contradictory ideas
as "pure reason," "absolute spirituality," "knowledge-in-itself":--in
these theories an eye that cannot be thought of is required to think,
an eye which ex hypothesi has no direction at all, an eye in which
the active and interpreting functions are cramped, are absent; those
functions, I say, by means of which "abstract" seeing first became
seeing something; in these theories consequently the absurd and the
non-sensical is always demanded of the eye. There is only a seeing
from a perspective, only a "knowing" from a perspective, and the more
emotions we express over a thing, the more eyes, different eyes, we
train on the same thing, the more complete will be our "idea" of that
thing, our "objectivity." But the elimination of the will altogether,
the switching off of the emotions all and sundry, granted that we could
do so, what! would not that be called intellectual castration?


13.

But let us turn back. Such a self-contradiction, as apparently
manifests itself among the ascetics, "Life turned against Life,"
is--this much is absolutely obvious--from the physiological and not now
from the psychological standpoint, simply nonsense. It can only be an
apparent contradiction; it must be a kind of provisional expression, an
explanation, a formula, an adjustment, a psychological misunderstanding
of something, whose real nature could not be understood for a long
time, and whose _real essence_ could not be described; a mere word
jammed into an old _gap_ of human knowledge. To put briefly the
facts against its being real: _the ascetic ideal springs from the
prophylactic and self-preservative instincts which mark a decadent
life_, which seeks by every means in its power to maintain its position
and fight for its existence; it points to a partial physiological
depression and exhaustion, against which the most profound and intact
life-instincts fight ceaselessly with new weapons and discoveries. The
ascetic ideal is such a weapon: its position is consequently exactly
the reverse of that which the worshippers of the ideal imagine--life
struggles in it and through it with death and against death; the
ascetic ideal is a dodge for the _preservation_ of life. An important
fact is brought out in the extent to which, as history teaches, this
ideal could rule and exercise power over man, especially in all those
places where the civilisation and taming of man was completed: that
fact is, the diseased state of man up to the present, at any rate, of
the man who has been tamed, the physiological struggle of man with
death (more precisely, with the disgust with life, with exhaustion,
with the wish for the "end"). The ascetic priest is the incarnate wish
for an existence of another kind, an existence on another plane,--he
is, in fact, the highest point of this wish, its official ecstasy and
passion: but it is the very _power_ of this wish which is the fetter
that binds him here; it is just that which makes him into a tool that
must labour to create more favourable conditions for earthly existence,
for existence on the human plane--it is with this very power that he
keeps the whole herd of failures, distortions, abortions, unfortunates,
_sufferers from themselves_ of every kind, fast to existence, while
he as the herdsman goes instinctively on in front. You understand
me already: this ascetic priest, this apparent enemy of life, this
denier--he actually belongs to the really great _conservative_ and
_affirmative_ forces of life.... What does it come from, this diseased
state? For man is more diseased, more uncertain, more changeable,
more unstable than any other animal, there is no doubt of it--he is
the diseased animal: what does it spring from? Certainly he has also
dared, innovated, braved more, challenged fate more than all the other
animals put together; he, the great experimenter with himself, the
unsatisfied, the insatiate, who struggles for the supreme mastery with
beast, Nature, and gods, he, the as yet ever uncompelled, the ever
future, who finds no more any rest from his own aggressive strength,
goaded inexorably on by the spur of the future dug into the flesh of
the present:--how should not so brave and rich an animal also be the
most endangered, the animal with the longest and deepest sickness
among all sick animals?... Man is sick of it, oft enough there are
whole epidemics of this satiety (as about 1348, the time of the Dance
of Death): but even this very nausea, this tiredness, this disgust
with himself, all this is discharged from him with such force that
it is immediately made into a new fetter. His "nay," which he utters
to life, brings to light as though by magic an abundance of graceful
"yeas"; even when he _wounds_ himself, this master of destruction, of
self-destruction, it is subsequently the wound itself that forces him
to live.


14.

The more normal is this sickliness in man--and we cannot dispute
this normality--the higher honour should be paid to the rare cases
of psychical and physical powerfulness, the _windfalls_ of humanity,
and the more strictly should the sound be guarded from that worst of
air, the air of the sick-room. Is that done? The sick are the greatest
danger for the healthy; it is not from the strongest that harm comes to
the strong, but from the weakest. Is that known? Broadly considered,
it is not for a minute the fear of man, whose diminution should be
wished for; for this fear forces the strong to be strong, to be at
times terrible--it preserves in its integrity the sound type of man.
What is to be feared, what does work with a fatality found in no other
fate, is not the great fear of, but the great _nausea_ with, man; and
equally so the great pity for man. Supposing that both these things
were one day to espouse each other, then inevitably the maximum of
monstrousness would immediately come into the world--the "last will"
of man, his will for nothingness, Nihilism. And, in sooth, the way is
well paved thereto. He who not only has his nose to smell with, but
also has eyes and ears, he sniffs almost wherever he goes to-day an
air something like that of a mad-house, the air of a hospital--I am
speaking, as stands to reason, of the cultured areas of mankind, of
every kind of "Europe" that there is in fact in the world. The _sick_
are the great danger of man, _not_ the evil, _not_ the "beasts of
prey." They who are from the outset botched, oppressed, broken, those
are they, the weakest are they, who most undermine the life beneath the
feet of man, who instil the most dangerous venom and scepticism into
our trust in life, in man, in ourselves. Where shall we escape from
it, from that covert look (from which we carry away a deep sadness),
from that averted look of him who is misborn from the beginning, that
look which betrays what such a man says to himself--that look which is
a groan?" Would that I were something else," so groans this look, "but
there is no hope. I am what I am: how could I get away from myself?
And, verily--_I am sick of myself!_" On such a soil of self-contempt,
a veritable swamp soil, grows that weed, that poisonous growth, and
all so tiny, so hidden, so ignoble, so sugary. Here teem the worms
of revenge and vindictiveness; here the air reeks of things secret
and unmentionable; here is ever spun the net of the most malignant
conspiracy--the conspiracy of the sufferers against the sound and the
victorious; here is the sight of the victorious _hated_. And what
lying so as not to acknowledge this hate as hate! What a show of big
words and attitudes, what an art of "righteous" calumniation! These
abortions! what a noble eloquence gushes from their lips! What an
amount of sugary, slimy, humble submission oozes in their eyes! What do
they really want? At any rate to _represent_ righteousness ness, love,
wisdom, superiority, that is the ambition of these "lowest ones," these
sick ones! And how clever does such an ambition make them! You cannot,
in fact, but admire the counterfeiter dexterity with which the stamp
of virtue, even the ring, the golden ring of virtue, is here imitated.
They have taken a lease of virtue absolutely for themselves, have these
weaklings and wretched invalids, there is no doubt of it; "We alone are
the good, the righteous," so do they speak, "we alone are the _homines
bonæ voluntatis_." They stalk about in our midst as living reproaches,
as warnings to us--as though health, fitness, strength, pride, the
sensation of power, were really vicious things in themselves, for
which one would have some day to do penance, bitter penance. Oh, how
they themselves are ready in their hearts to exact penance, how they
thirst after being _hangmen_!

Among them is an abundance of revengeful ones disguised as judges,
who ever mouth the word righteousness like a venomous spittle--with
mouth, I say, always pursed, always ready to spit at everything,
which does not wear a discontented look, but is of good cheer as it
goes on its way. Among them, again, is that most loathsome species
of the vain, the lying abortions, who make a point of representing
"beautiful souls," and perchance of bringing to the market as "purity
of heart" their distorted sensualism swathed in verses and other
bandages; the species of "self-comforters" and masturbators of their
own souls. The sick man's will to represent _some_ form or other of
superiority, his instinct for crooked paths, which lead to a tyranny
over the healthy--where can it not be found, this will to power of
the very weakest? The sick woman especially: no one surpasses her
in refinements for ruling, oppressing, tyrannising. The sick woman,
moreover, spares nothing living, nothing dead; she grubs up again the
most buried things (the Bogos say, "Woman is a hyena"). Look into
the background of every family, of every body, of every community:
everywhere the fight of the sick against the healthy--a silent fight
for the most part with minute poisoned powders, with pin-pricks, with
spiteful grimaces of patience, but also at times with that diseased
pharisaism of _pure_ pantomime, which plays for choice the rôle of
"righteous indignation." Right into the hallowed chambers of knowledge
can it make itself heard, can this hoarse yelping of sick hounds, this
rabid lying and frenzy of such "noble" Pharisees (I remind readers, who
have ears, once more of that Berlin apostle of revenge, Eugen Dühring,
who makes the most disreputable and revolting use in all present-day
Germany of moral refuse; Dühring, the paramount moral blusterer that
there is to-day, even among his own kidney, the Anti-Semites). They
are all men of resentment, are these physiological distortions and
worm-riddled objects, a whole quivering kingdom of burrowing revenge,
indefatigable and insatiable in its outbursts against the happy, and
equally so in disguises for revenge, in pretexts for revenge: when
will they really reach their final, fondest, most sublime triumph of
revenge? At that time, doubtless, when they succeed in pushing their
own misery, in fact, all misery, _into the consciousness_ of the happy;
so that the latter begin one day to be ashamed of their happiness,
and perchance say to themselves when they meet, "It is a shame to be
happy! _there is too much misery!_" ... But there could not possibly
be a greater and more fatal misunderstanding than that of the happy,
the fit, the strong in body and soul, beginning in this way to doubt
their right to happiness. Away with this "perverse world"! Away with
this shameful soddenness of sentiment! Preventing the sick making the
healthy sick--for that is what such a soddenness comes to--this ought
to be our supreme object in the world--but for this it is above all
essential that the healthy should remain _separated_ from the sick,
that they should even guard themselves from the look of the sick, that
they should not even associate with the sick. Or may it, perchance,
be their mission to be nurses or doctors? But they could not mistake
and disown their mission more grossly--the higher must not degrade
itself to be the tool of the lower, the pathos of distance must to all
eternity keep their missions also separate. The right of the happy to
existence, the right of bells with a full tone over the discordant
cracked bells, is verily a thousand times greater: they alone are the
_sureties_ of the future, they alone are _bound_ to man's future. What
they can, what they must do, that can the sick never do, should never
do! but if _they are to_ be enabled to do what _only_ they must do,
how can they possibly be free to play the doctor, the comforter, the
"Saviour" of the sick?... And therefore good air! good air! and away,
at any rate, from the neighbourhood of all the madhouses and hospitals
of civilisation! And therefore good company, _our own_ company, or
solitude, if it must be so! but away, at any rate, from the evil fumes
of internal corruption and the secret worm-eaten state of the sick!
that, forsooth, my friends, we may defend ourselves, at any rate for
still a time, against the two worst plagues that could have been
reserved for us--against the _great nausea with man_! against the_
great pity for man_!


15.

If you have understood in all their depths--and I demand that you
should _grasp them profoundly_ and understand them profoundly--the
reasons for the impossibility of its being the business of the healthy
to nurse the sick, to make the sick healthy, it follows that you have
grasped this further necessity--the necessity of doctors and nurses
_who themselves are sick_. And now we have and hold with both our hands
the essence of the ascetic priest. The ascetic priest must be accepted
by us as the predestined saviour, herdsman, and champion of the sick
herd: thereby do we first understand his awful historic mission. The
_lordship over sufferers_ is his kingdom, to that points his instinct,
in that he finds his own special art, his master-skill, his kind of
happiness. He must himself be sick, he must be kith and kin to the
sick and the abortions so as to understand them, so as to arrive at an
understanding with them; but he must also be strong, even more master
of himself than of others, impregnable, forsooth, in his will for
power, so as to acquire the trust and the awe of the weak, so that he
can be their hold, bulwark, prop, compulsion, overseer, tyrant, god.
He has to protect them, protect his herds--_against_ whom? Against
the healthy, doubtless also against the envy towards the healthy. He
must be the natural adversary and _scorner_ of every rough, stormy,
reinless, hard, violently-predatory health and power. The priest is
the first form of the more delicate animal that scorns more easily
than it hates. He will not be spared the waging of war with the beasts
of prey, a war of guile (of "spirit") rather than of force, as is
self-evident--he will in certain cases find it necessary to conjure up
out of himself, or at any rate to represent practically a new type of
the beast of prey--a new animal monstrosity in which the polar bear,
the supple, cold, crouching panther, and, not least important, the fox,
are joined together in a trinity as fascinating as it is fearsome.
If necessity exacts it, then will he come on the scene with bearish
seriousness, venerable, wise, cold, full of treacherous superiority, as
the herald and mouthpiece of mysterious powers, sometimes going among
even the other kind of beasts of prey, determined as he is to sow on
their soil, wherever he can, suffering, discord, self-contradiction,
and only too sure of his art, always to be lord of _sufferers_ at all
times. He brings with him, doubtless, salve and balsam; but before he
can play the physician he must first wound; so, while he soothes the
pain which the wound makes, _he at the same time poisons the wound_.
Well versed is he in this above all things, is this wizard and wild
beast tamer, in whose vicinity everything healthy must needs become
ill, and everything ill must needs become tame. He protects, in sooth,
his sick herd well enough, does this strange herdsman; he protects
them also against themselves, against the sparks (even in the centre
of the herd) of wickedness, knavery, malice, and all the other ills
that the plaguey and the sick are heir to; he fights with cunning,
hardness, and stealth against anarchy and against the ever imminent
break-up inside the herd, where _resentment_, that most dangerous
blasting-stuff and explosive, ever accumulates and accumulates. Getting
rid of this blasting-stuff in such a way that it does not blow up the
herd and the herdsman, that is his real feat, his supreme utility;
if you wish to comprise in the shortest formula the value of the
priestly life, it would be correct to say the priest is the _diverter
of the course of resentment_. Every sufferer, in fact, searches
instinctively for a cause of his suffering; to put it more exactly,
a doer,--to put it still more precisely, a sentient _responsible_
doer,--in brief, something living, on which, either actually or in
_effigie_, he can on any pretext vent his emotions. For the venting
of emotions is the sufferer's greatest attempt at alleviation, that
is to say, _stupefaction_, his mechanically desired narcotic against
pain of any kind. It is in this phenomenon alone that is found,
according to my judgment, the real physiological cause of resentment,
revenge, and their family is to be found--that is, in a demand for the
_deadening of pain through emotion_: this cause is generally, but in
my view very erroneously, looked for in the defensive parry of a bare
protective principle of reaction, of a "reflex movement" in the case
of any sudden hurt and danger, after the manner that a decapitated
frog still moves in order to get away from a corrosive acid. But the
difference is fundamental. In one case the object is to prevent being
hurt any more; in the other case the object is to _deaden_ a racking,
insidious, nearly unbearable pain by a more violent emotion of any
kind whatsoever, and at any rate for the time being to drive it out of
the consciousness--for this purpose an emotion is needed, as wild an
emotion as possible, and to excite that emotion some excuse or other
is needed. "It must be somebody's fault that I feel bad"--this kind of
reasoning is peculiar to all invalids, and is but the more pronounced,
the more ignorant they remain of the real cause of their feeling bad,
the physiological cause (the cause may lie in a disease of the _nervus
sympathicus_, or in an excessive secretion of bile, or in a want of
sulphate and phosphate of potash in the blood, or in pressure in the
bowels which stops the circulation of the blood, or in degeneration of
the ovaries, and so forth). Ail sufferers have an awful resourcefulness
and ingenuity in finding excuses for painful emotions; they even
enjoy their jealousy, their broodings over base actions and apparent
injuries, they burrow through the intestines of their past and present
in their search for obscure mysteries, wherein they will be at liberty
to wallow in a torturing suspicion and get drunk on the venom of their
own malice--they tear open the oldest wounds, they make themselves
bleed from the scars which have long been healed, they make evil-doers
out of friends, wife, child, and everything which is nearest to them.
"I suffer: it must be somebody's fault"--so thinks every sick sheep.
But his herdsman, the ascetic priest, says to him, "Quite so, my sheep,
it must be the fault of some one; but thou thyself art that some one,
it is all the fault of thyself alone--_it is the fault of thyself alone
against thyself_": that is bold enough, false enough, but one thing is
at least attained; thereby, as I have said, the course of resentment
is--_diverted_.


16.

You can see now what the remedial instinct of life has at least _tried_
to effect, according to my conception, through the ascetic priest,
and the purpose for which he had to employ a temporary tyranny of
such paradoxical and anomalous ideas as "guilt," "sin," "sinfulness,"
"corruption," "damnation." What was done was to make the sick
_harmless_ up to a certain point, to destroy the incurable by means of
themselves, to turn the milder cases severely on to themselves, to give
their resentment a backward direction ("man needs but one thing"), and
to _exploit_ similarly the bad instincts of all sufferers with a view
to self-discipline, self-surveillance, self-mastery. It is obvious that
there can be no question at all in the case of a "medication" of this
kind, a mere emotional medication, of any real _healing_ of the sick in
the physiological sense; it cannot even for a moment be asserted that
in this connection the instinct of life has taken healing as its goal
and purpose. On the one hand, a kind of congestion and organisation of
the sick (the word "Church" is the most popular name for it): on the
other, a kind of provisional safeguarding of the comparatively healthy,
the more perfect specimens, the cleavage of a _rift_ between healthy
and sick--for a long time that was all! and it was much! it was very
much!

I am proceeding, as you see, in this essay, from an hypothesis which,
as far as such readers as I want are concerned, does not require to be
proved; the hypothesis that "sinfulness" in man is not an actual fact,
but rather merely the interpretation of a fact, of a physiological
discomfort,--a discomfort seen through a moral religious perspective
which is no longer binding upon us. The fact, therefore, that any one
feels "guilty," "sinful," is certainly not yet any proof that he is
right in feeling so, any more than any one is healthy simply because
he feels healthy. Remember the celebrated witch-ordeals: in those days
the most acute and humane judges had no doubt but that in these cases
they were confronted with guilt,--the "witches"_ themselves had no
doubt on the point_,--and yet the guilt was lacking. Let me elaborate
this hypothesis: I do not for a minute accept the very "pain in the
soul" as a real fact, but only as an explanation (a casual explanation)
of facts that could not hitherto be precisely formulated; I regard
it therefore as something as yet absolutely in the air and devoid of
scientific cogency--just a nice fat word in the place of a lean note
of interrogation. When any one fails to get rid of his "pain in the
soul," the cause is, speaking crudely, to be found _not_ in his "soul"
but more probably in his stomach (speaking crudely, I repeat, but by
no means wishing thereby that you should listen to me or understand
me in a crude spirit). A strong and well-constituted man digests his
experiences (deeds and misdeeds all included) just as he digests his
meats, even when he has some tough morsels to swallow. If he fails to
"relieve himself" of an experience, this kind of indigestion is quite
as much physiological as the other indigestion--and indeed, in more
ways than one, simply one of the results of the other. You can adopt
such a theory, and yet _entre nous_ be nevertheless the strongest
opponent of all materialism.


17.

But is he really a _physician_, this ascetic priest? We already
understand why we are scarcely allowed to call him a physician, however
much he likes to feel a "saviour" and let himself be worshipped as a
saviour.[3] It is only the actual suffering, the discomfort of the
sufferer, which he combats, _not_ its cause, not the actual state of
sickness--this needs must constitute our most radical objection to
priestly medication. But just once put yourself into that point of
view, of which the priests have a monopoly, you will find it hard to
exhaust your amazement, at what from that standpoint he has completely
seen, sought, and found. The _mitigation_ of suffering, every kind of
"consoling"--all this manifests itself as his very genius: with what
ingenuity has he interpreted his mission of consoler, with what aplomb
and audacity has he chosen weapons necessary for the part. Christianity
in particular should be dubbed a great treasure-chamber of ingenious
consolations,--such a store of refreshing, soothing, deadening drugs
has it accumulated within itself; so many of the most dangerous and
daring expedients has it hazarded; with such subtlety, refinement,
Oriental refinement, has it divined what emotional stimulants can
conquer, at any rate for a time, the deep depression, the leaden
fatigue, the black melancholy of physiological cripples--for, speaking
generally, all religions are mainly concerned with fighting a certain
fatigue and heaviness that has infected everything. You can regard it
as _prima facie_ probable that in certain places in the world there
was almost bound to prevail from time to time among large masses of
the population a _sense of physiological depression_, which, however,
owing to their lack of physiological knowledge, did not appear to their
consciousness as such, so that consequently its "cause" and its _cure_
can only be sought and essayed in the science of moral psychology
(this, in fact, is my most general formula for what is generally called
a "_religion_"). Such a feeling of depression can have the most diverse
origins; it may be the result of the crossing of too heterogeneous
races (or of classes--genealogical and racial differences are also
brought out in the classes: the European "Weltschmerz," the "Pessimism"
of the nineteenth century, is really the result of an absurd and sudden
class-mixture); it may be brought about by a mistaken emigration--a
race falling into a climate for which its power of adaptation is
insufficient (the case of the Indians in India); it may be the effect
of old age and fatigue (the Parisian pessimism from 1850 onwards); it
may be a wrong diet (the alcoholism of the Middle Ages, the nonsense
of vegetarianism--which, however, have in their favour the authority
of Sir Christopher in Shakespeare); it may be blood-deterioration,
malaria, syphilis, and the like (German depression after the Thirty
Years' War, which infected half Germany with evil diseases, and
thereby paved the way for German servility, for German pusillanimity).
In such a case there is invariably recourse to a _war_ on a grand scale
with the feeling of depression; let us inform ourselves briefly on its
most important practices and phases (I leave on one side, as stands to
reason, the actual _philosophic_ war against the feeling of depression
which is usually simultaneous--it is interesting enough, but too
absurd, too practically negligible, too full of cobwebs, too much of a
hole-and-corner affair, especially when pain is proved to be a mistake,
on the _naïf_ hypothesis that pain must needs _vanish_ when the mistake
underlying it is recognised--but behold! it does anything but vanish
...). That dominant depression is _primarily fought_ by weapons which
reduce the consciousness of life itself to the lowest degree. Wherever
possible, no more wishes, no more wants; shun everything which produces
emotion, which produces "blood" (eating no salt, the fakir hygiene);
no love; no hate; equanimity; no revenge; no getting rich; no work;
begging; as far as possible, no woman, or as little woman as possible;
as far as the intellect is concerned, Pascal's principle, "_il faut
s'abêtir._" To put the result in ethical and psychological language,
"self-annihilation," "sanctification"; to put it in physiological
language, "hypnotism"--the attempt to find some approximate human
equivalent for what _hibernation_ is for certain animals, for what
_æstivation_ is for many tropical plants, a minimum of assimilation
and metabolism in which life just manages to subsist without really
coming into the consciousness. An amazing amount of human energy
has been devoted to this object--perhaps uselessly? There cannot be
the slightest doubt but that such _sportsmen_ of "saintliness," in
whom at times nearly every nation has abounded, have really found a
genuine relief from that which they have combated with such a rigorous
_training_--in countless cases they really escaped by the help of their
system of hypnotism _away_ from deep physiological depression; their
method is consequently counted among the most universal ethnological
facts. Similarly it is improper to consider such a plan for starving
the physical element and the desires, as in itself a symptom of
insanity (as a clumsy species of roast-beef-eating "freethinkers" and
Sir Christophers are fain to do); all the more certain is it that their
method can and does pave the way to all kinds of mental disturbances,
for instance, "inner lights" (as far as the case of the Hesychasts of
Mount Athos), auditory and visual hallucinations, voluptuous ecstasies
and effervescences of sensualism (the history of St. Theresa). The
explanation of such events given by the victims is always the acme of
fanatical falsehood; this is self-evident. Note well, however, the tone
of implicit gratitude that rings in the very _will_ for an explanation
of such a character. The supreme state, salvation itself, that final
goal of universal hypnosis and peace, is always regarded by them as
the mystery of mysteries, which even the most supreme symbols are
inadequate to express; it is regarded as an entry and homecoming to the
essence of things, as a liberation from all illusions, as "knowledge,"
as "truth," as "being" as an escape from every end, every wish, every
action, as something even beyond Good and Evil.

"Good and Evil," quoth the Buddhists, "both are fetters. The perfect
man is master of them both."

"The done and the undone," quoth the disciple of the Vedanta, "do
him no hurt; the good and the evil he shakes from off him, sage that
he is; his kingdom suffers no more from any act; good and evil, he
goes beyond them both."--An absolutely Indian conception, as much
Brahmanist as Buddhist. Neither in the Indian nor in the Christian
doctrine is this "Redemption" regarded as attainable by means of
virtue and moral improvement, however high they may place the value of
the hypnotic efficiency of virtue: keep clear on this point--indeed
it simply corresponds with the facts. The fact that they remained
_true_ on this point is perhaps to be regarded as the best specimen
of realism in the three great religions, absolutely soaked as they
are with morality, with this one exception. "For those who know,
there is no duty." "Redemption is not attained by the acquisition of
virtues; for redemption consists in being one with Brahman, who is
incapable of acquiring any perfection; and equally little does it
consist in the _giving up of faults_, for the Brahman, unity with whom
is what constitutes redemption, is eternally pure" (these passages
are from the Commentaries of the Cankara, quoted from the first real
European _expert_ of the Indian philosophy, my friend Paul Deussen).
We wish, therefore, to pay honour to the idea of "redemption" in
the great religions, but it is somewhat hard to remain serious in
view of the appreciation meted out to the _deep sleep_ by these
exhausted pessimists who are too tired even to dream--to the deep
sleep considered, that is, as already a fusing into Brahman, as the
attainment of the _unio mystica_ with God. "When he has completely gone
to sleep," says on this point the oldest and most venerable "script,"
"and come to perfect rest, so that he sees no more any vision, then,
oh dear one, is he united with Being, he has entered into his own
self--encircled by the Self with its absolute knowledge, he has no
more any consciousness of that which is without or of that which is
within. Day and night cross not these bridges, nor age, nor death,
nor suffering, nor good deeds, nor evil deeds." "In deep sleep," say
similarly the believers in this deepest of the three great religions,
"does the soul lift itself from out this body of ours, enters the
supreme light and stands out therein in its true shape: therein is it
the supreme spirit itself, which travels about, while it jests and
plays and enjoys itself, whether with women, or chariots, or friends;
there do its thoughts turn no more back to this appanage of a body,
to which the 'prana' (the vital breath) is harnessed like a beast of
burden to the cart." None the less we will take care to realise (as
we did when discussing "redemption") that in spite of all its pomps
of Oriental extravagance this simply expresses the same criticism on
life as did the clear, cold, Greekly cold, but yet suffering Epicurus.
The hypnotic sensation of nothingness, the peace of deepest sleep,
anæsthesia in short––that is what passes with the sufferers and the
absolutely depressed for, forsooth, their supreme good, their value
of values; that is what <b>must</b> be treasured by them as something
positive, be felt by them as the essence of _the_ Positive (according
to the same logic of the feelings, nothingness is in all pessimistic
religions called God).


18.

Such a hypnotic deadening of sensibility and susceptibility to pain,
which presupposes somewhat rare powers, especially courage, contempt
of opinion, intellectual stoicism, is less frequent than another
and certainly easier _training_ which is tried against states of
depression. I mean _mechanical activity_. It is indisputable that a
suffering existence can be thereby considerably alleviated. This fact
is called to-day by the somewhat ignoble title of the "Blessing of
work." The alleviation consists in the attention of the sufferer being
absolutely diverted from suffering, in the incessant monopoly of the
consciousness by action, so that consequently there is little room left
for suffering––for _narrow_ is it, this chamber of human consciousness!
Mechanical activity and its corollaries, such as absolute regularity,
punctilious unreasoning obedience, the chronic routine of life, the
complete occupation of time, a certain liberty to be impersonal, nay, a
training in "impersonality," self-forgetfulness, "_incuria sui_"––with
what thoroughness and expert subtlety have all these methods been
exploited by the ascetic priest in his war with pain!

When he has to tackle sufferers of the lower orders, slaves, or
prisoners (or women, who for the most part are a compound of
labour-slave and prisoner), all he has to do is to juggle a little
with the names, and to rechristen, so as to make them see henceforth
a benefit, a comparative happiness, in objects which they hated--the
slave's discontent with his lot was at any rate not invented by the
priests. An even more popular means of fighting depression is the
ordaining of a _little joy_, which is easily accessible and can be made
into a rule; this medication is frequently used in conjunction with
the former ones. The most frequent form in which joy is prescribed
as a cure is the joy in _producing_ joy (such as doing good, giving
presents, alleviating, helping, exhorting, comforting, praising,
treating with distinction); together with the prescription of "love
your neighbour." The ascetic priest prescribes, though in the most
cautious doses, what is practically a stimulation of the strongest
and most life-assertive impulse--the Will for Power. The happiness
involved in the "smallest superiority" which is the concomitant of all
benefiting, helping, extolling, making one's self useful, is the most
ample consolation, of which, if they are well-advised, physiological
distortions avail themselves: in other cases they hurt each other, and
naturally in obedience to the same radical instinct. An investigation
of the origin of Christianity in the Roman world shows that
co-operative unions for poverty, sickness, and burial sprang up in the
lowest stratum of contemporary society, amid which the chief antidote
against depression, the little joy experienced in mutual benefits,
was deliberately fostered. Perchance this was then a novelty, a real
discovery? This conjuring up of the will for co-operation, for family
organisation, for communal life, for "_Cœnacula_" necessarily brought
the Will for Power, which had been already infinitesimally stimulated,
to a new and much fuller manifestation. The herd organisation is a
genuine advance and triumph in the fight with depression. With the
growth of the community there matures even to individuals a new
interest, which often enough takes him out of the more personal
element in his discontent, his aversion to himself, the "_despectus
sui_" of Geulincx. All sick and diseased people strive instinctively
after a herd-organisation, out of a desire to shake off their sense of
oppressive discomfort and weakness; the ascetic priest divines this
instinct and promotes it; wherever a herd exists it is the instinct
of weakness which has wished for the herd, and the cleverness of the
priests which has organised it, for, mark this: by an equally natural
necessity the strong strive as much for _isolation_ as the weak for
_union_: when the former bind themselves it is only with a view to an
aggressive joint action and joint satisfaction of their Will for Power,
much against the wishes of their individual consciences; the latter,
on the contrary, range themselves together with positive _delight_ in
such a muster--their instincts are as much gratified thereby as the
instincts of the "born master" (that is, the solitary beast-of-prey
species of man) are disturbed and wounded to the quick by organisation.
There is always lurking beneath every oligarchy--such is the
universal lesson of history--the desire for tyranny. Every oligarchy
is continually quivering with the tension of the effort required by
each individual to keep mastering this desire. (Such, _e.g._, was
the Greek; Plato shows it in a hundred places, Plato, who knew his
contemporaries--and _himself_.)


19.

The methods employed by the ascetic priest, which we have already
learnt to know--stifling of all vitality, mechanical energy, the
little joy, and especially the method of "love your neighbour"
herd-organisation, the awaking of the communal consciousness of power,
to such a pitch that the individual's disgust with himself becomes
eclipsed by his delight in the thriving of the community--these are,
according to modern standards, the "innocent" methods employed in
the fight with depression; let us turn now to the more interesting
topic of the "guilty" methods. The guilty methods spell one thing:
to produce _emotional excess_--which is used as the most efficacious
anæsthetic against their depressing state of protracted pain; this
is why priestly ingenuity has proved quite inexhaustible in thinking
out this one question: "_By what means_ can you produce an emotional
excess?" This sounds harsh: it is manifest that it would sound nicer
and would grate on one's ears less, if I were to say, forsooth: "The
ascetic priest made use at all times of the enthusiasm contained in all
strong emotions." But what is the good of still soothing the delicate
ears of our modern effeminates? What is the good _on our side_ of
budging one single inch before their verbal Pecksniffianism. For us
psychologists to do that would be at once _practical Pecksniffianism_,
apart from the fact of its nauseating us. The _good taste_ (others
might say, the righteousness) of a psychologist nowadays consists, if
at all, in combating the shamefully moralised language with which all
modern judgments on men and things are smeared. For, do not deceive
yourself: what constitutes the chief characteristic of modern souls and
of modern books is not the lying, but the _innocence_ which is part
and parcel of their intellectual dishonesty. The inevitable running up
against this "innocence" everywhere constitutes the most distasteful
feature of the somewhat dangerous business which a modern psychologist
has to undertake: it is a part of our great danger--it is a road which
perhaps leads us straight to the great nausea--I know quite well the
purpose which all modern books will and can serve (granted that they
last, which I am not afraid of, and granted equally that there is to
be at some future day a generation with a more rigid, more severe,
and _healthier_ taste)--the _function_ which all modernity generally
will serve with posterity: that of an emetic,--and this by reason of
its moral sugariness and falsity, its ingrained feminism, which it is
pleased to call "Idealism," and at any rate believes to be idealism.
Our cultured men of to-day, our "good" men, do not lie--that is true;
but it does _not_ redound to their honour! The real lie, the genuine,
determined, "honest" lie (on whose value you can listen to Plato) would
prove too tough and strong an article for them by a long way; it would
be asking them to do what people have been forbidden to ask them to do,
to open their eyes to their own selves, and to learn to distinguish
between "true" and "false" in their own selves. The dishonest lie alone
suits them: everything which feels a good man is perfectly incapable of
any other attitude to anything than that of a dishonourable liar, an
absolute liar, but none the less an innocent liar, a blue-eyed liar, a
virtuous liar. These "good men," they are all now tainted with morality
through and through, and as far as honour is concerned they are
disgraced and corrupted for all eternity. Which of them _could stand_ a
further truth "about man"? or, put more tangibly, which of them could
put up with a true biography? One or two instances: Lord Byron composed
a most personal autobiography, but Thomas Moore was "too good" for it;
he burnt his friend's papers. Dr. Gwinner, Schopenhauer's executor, is
said to have done the same; for Schopenhauer as well wrote much about
himself, and perhaps also against himself: (εἰς ἑαντόν). The virtuous
American Thayer, Beethoven's biographer, suddenly stopped his work: he
had come to a certain point in that honourable and simple life, and
could stand it no longer. Moral: What sensible man nowadays writes one
honest word about himself? He must already belong to the Order of Holy
Foolhardiness. We are promised an autobiography of Richard Wagner; who
doubts but that it would be a _clever_ autobiography? Think, forsooth,
of the grotesque horror which the Catholic priest Janssen aroused in
Germany with his inconceivably square and harmless pictures of the
German Reformation; what wouldn't people do if some real psychologist
were to tell us about a genuine Luther, tell us, not with the moralist
simplicity of a country priest or the sweet and cautious modesty of a
Protestant historian, but say with the fearlessness of a Taine, that
springs from force of character and not from a prudent toleration of
force. (The Germans, by the bye, have already produced the classic
specimen of this toleration--they may well be allowed to reckon him as
one of their own, in Leopold Ranke, that born classical advocate of
every _causa fortior_, that cleverest of all the clever opportunists.)


20.

But you will soon understand me.--Putting it shortly, there is reason
enough, is there not, for us psychologists nowadays never getting from
a certain mistrust of out _own selves_? Probably even we ourselves are
still "too good" for our work, probably, whatever contempt we feel
for this popular craze for morality, we ourselves are perhaps none
the less its victims, prey, and slaves; probably it infects even us.
Of what was that diplomat warning us, when he said to his colleagues:
"Let us especially mistrust our first impulses, gentlemen! _they are
almost always good_"? So should nowadays every psychologist talk to
his colleagues. And thus we get back to our problem, which in point
of fact does require from us a certain severity, a certain mistrust
especially against "first impulses." The ascetic ideal in the service
of projected emotional excess:--he who remembers the previous essay
will already partially anticipate the essential meaning compressed
into these above ten words. The thorough unswitching of the human
soul, the plunging of it into terror, frost, ardour, rapture, so as
to free it, as through some lightning shock, from all the smallness
and pettiness of unhappiness, depression, and discomfort: what ways
lead to _this_ goal? And which of these ways does so most safely?...
At bottom all great emotions have this power, provided that they find
a sudden outlet--emotions such as rage, fear, lust, revenge, hope,
triumph, despair, cruelty; and, in sooth, the ascetic priest has had
no scruples in taking into his service the whole pack of hounds that
rage in the human kennel, unleashing now these and now those, with the
same constant object of waking man out of his protracted melancholy,
of chasing away, at any rate for a time, his dull pain, his shrinking
misery, but always under the sanction of a religious interpretation
and justification. This emotional excess has subsequently to be _paid
for_, this is self-evident--it makes the ill more ill--and therefore
this kind of remedy for pain is according to modern standards a
"guilty" kind.

The dictates of fairness, however, require that we should all the
more emphasise the fact that this remedy is applied with _a good
conscience_, that the ascetic priest has prescribed it in the most
implicit belief in its utility and indispensability;--often enough
almost collapsing in the presence of the pain which he created;--that
we should similarly emphasise the fact that the violent physiological
revenges of such excesses, even perhaps the mental disturbances, are
not absolutely inconsistent with the general tenor of this kind of
remedy; this remedy, which, as we have shown previously, is _not_ for
the purpose of healing diseases, but of fighting the unhappiness of
that depression, the alleviation and deadening of which was its object.
The object was consequently achieved. The keynote by which the ascetic
priest was enabled to get every kind of agonising and ecstatic music
to play on the fibres of the human soul--was, as every one knows, the
exploitation of the feeling of "_guilt_." I have already indicated in
the previous essay the origin of this feeling--as a piece of animal
psychology and nothing else: we were thus confronted with the
feeling of "guilt," in its crude state, as it were. It was first in
the hands of the priest, real artist that he was in the feeling of
guilt, that it took shape--oh, what a shape! "Sin"--for that is the
name of the new priestly version of the animal "bad-conscience" (the
inverted cruelty)--has up to the present been the greatest event in the
history of the diseased soul: in "sin" we find the most perilous and
fatal masterpiece of religious interpretation. Imagine man, suffering
from himself, some way or other but at any rate physiologically,
perhaps like an animal shut up in a cage, not clear as to the why and
the wherefore! imagine him in his desire for reasons--reasons bring
relief--in his desire again for remedies, narcotics at last, consulting
one, who knows even the occult--and see, lo and behold, he gets a hint
from his wizard, the ascetic priest, his _first_ hint on the "cause" of
his trouble: he must search for it in _himself_, in his guiltiness, in
a piece of the past, he must understand his very suffering as a _state
of punishment_. He has heard, he has understood, has the unfortunate:
he is now in the plight of a hen round which a line has been drawn. He
never gets out of the circle of lines. The sick man has been turned
into "the sinner"--and now for a few thousand years we never get away
from the sight of this new invalid, of "a sinner"--shall we ever get
away from it?--wherever we just look, everywhere the hypnotic gaze of
the sinner always moving in one direction (in the direction of guilt,
the _only_ cause of suffering); everywhere the evil conscience, this
"_greuliche thier_,"[4] to use Luther's language; everywhere rumination
over the past, a distorted view of action, the gaze of the "green-eyed
monster" turned on all action; everywhere the wilful misunderstanding
of suffering, its transvaluation into feelings of guilt, fear of
retribution; everywhere the scourge, the hairy shirt, the starving
body, contrition; everywhere the sinner breaking himself on the ghastly
wheel of a restless and morbidly eager conscience; everywhere mute
pain, extreme fear, the agony of a tortured heart, the spasms of an
unknown happiness, the shriek for "redemption." In point of fact,
thanks to this system of procedure, the old depression, dullness,
and fatigue were absolutely conquered, life itself became _very_
interesting again, awake, eternally awake, sleepless, glowing, burnt
away, exhausted and yet not tired--such was the figure cut by man,
"the sinner," who was initiated into these mysteries. This grand old
wizard of an ascetic priest fighting with depression--he had clearly
triumphed, _his_ kingdom had come: men no longer grumbled at pain, men
_panted_ after pain: "_More pain!_ More pain!" So for centuries on end
shrieked the demand of his acolytes and initiates. Every emotional
excess which hurt; everything which broke, overthrew, crushed,
transported, ravished; the mystery of torture-chambers, the ingenuity
of hell itself--all this was now discovered, divined, exploited, all
this was at the service of the wizard, all this served to promote the
triumph of his ideal, the ascetic ideal. "_My kingdom is not of this
world_," quoth he, both at the beginning and at the end: had he still
the right to talk like that?--Goethe has maintained that there are only
thirty-six tragic situations: we would infer from that, did we not know
otherwise, that Goethe was no ascetic priest. He--knows more.


21.

So far as all _this_ kind of priestly medicine-mongering, the "guilty"
kind, is concerned, every word of criticism is superfluous. As for the
suggestion that emotional excess of the type, which in these cases
the ascetic priest is fain to order to his sick patients (under the
most sacred euphemism, as is obvious, and equally impregnated with
the sanctity of his purpose), has ever really been of use to any sick
man, who, forsooth, would feel inclined to maintain a proposition of
that character? At any rate, some understanding should be come to as
to the expression "be of use." If you only wish to express that such a
system of treatment has _reformed_ man, I do not gainsay it: I merely
add that "reformed" conveys to my mind as much as "tamed," "weakened,"
"discouraged," "refined," "daintified," "emasculated" (and thus it
means almost as much as injured). But when you have to deal principally
with sick, depressed, and oppressed creatures, such a system, even
granted that it makes the ill "better," under any circumstances also
makes them more _ill_: ask the mad-doctors the invariable result of a
methodical application of penance-torture, contrition, and salvation
ecstasies. Similarly ask history. In every body politic where the
ascetic priest has established this treatment of the sick, disease has
on every occasion spread with sinister speed throughout its length
and breadth. What was always the "result"? A shattered nervous system,
in addition to the existing malady, and this in the greatest as in the
smallest, in the individuals as in masses. We find, in consequence of
the penance and redemption-training, awful epileptic epidemics, the
greatest known to history, such as the St. Vitus and St. John dances
of the Middle Ages; we find, as another phase of its after-effect,
frightful mutilations and chronic depressions, by means of which the
temperament of a nation or a city (Geneva, Bale) is turned once for
all into its opposite;--this _training_, again, is responsible for
the witch-hysteria, a phenomenon analogous to somnambulism (eight
great epidemic outbursts of this only between 1564 and 1605);--we
find similarly in its train those delirious death-cravings of large
masses, whose awful "shriek," "_evviva la morte!_" was heard over the
whole of Europe, now interrupted by voluptuous variations and anon by
a rage for destruction, just as the same emotional sequence with the
same intermittencies and sudden changes is now universally observed
in every case where the ascetic doctrine of sin scores once more a
great success (religious neurosis _appears_ as a manifestation of the
devil, there is no doubt of it. What is it? _Quæritur_). Speaking
generally, the ascetic ideal and its sublime-moral cult, this most
ingenious, reckless, and perilous systematisation of all methods of
emotional excess, is writ large in a dreadful and unforgettable fashion
on the whole history of man, and unfortunately not only on history.
I was scarcely able to put forward any other element which attacked
the health and race efficiency of Europeans with more destructive
power than did this ideal; it can be dubbed,without exaggeration,
_the real fatality_ in the history of the health of the European man.
At the most you can merely draw a comparison with the specifically
German influence: I mean the alcohol poisoning of Europe, which up
to the present has kept pace exactly with the political and racial
pre–dominance of the Germans (where they inoculated their blood,
there too did they inoculate their vice). Third in the series comes
syphilis--_magno sed proximo intervallo_.


22.

The ascetic priest has, wherever he has obtained the mastery, corrupted
the health of the soul, he has consequently also corrupted _taste in
artibus et litteris_--he corrupts it still. "Consequently?" I hope I
shall be granted this "consequently "; at any rate, I am not going to
prove it first. One solitary indication, it concerns the arch-book of
Christian literature, their real model, their "book-in-itself." In the
very midst of the Græco-Roman splendour, which was also a splendour
of books, face to face with an ancient world of writings which had
not yet fallen into decay and ruin, at a time when certain books were
still to be read, to possess which we would give nowadays half our
literature in exchange, at that time the simplicity and vanity of
Christian agitators (they are generally called Fathers of the Church)
dared to declare: "We too have our classical literature, we _do not
need that of the Greeks_"--and meanwhile they proudly pointed to their
books of legends, their letters of apostles, and their apologetic
tractlets, just in the same way that to-day the English "Salvation
Army" wages its fight against Shakespeare and other "heathens" with
an analogous literature. You already guess it, I do not like the "New
Testament"; it almost upsets me that I stand so isolated in my taste
so far as concerns this valued, this over-valued Scripture; the taste
of two thousand years is _against_ me; but what boots it! "Here I
stand! I cannot help myself"[5]--I have the courage of my bad taste.
The Old Testament--yes, that is something quite different, all honour
to the Old Testament! I find therein great men, an heroic landscape,
and one of the rarest phenomena in the world, the incomparable naïveté
_of the strong heart_; further still, I find a people. In the New, on
the contrary, just a hostel of petty sects, pure rococo of the soul,
twisting angles and fancy touches, nothing but conventicle air, not to
forget an occasional whiff of bucolic sweetness which appertains to the
epoch (_and_ the Roman province) and is less Jewish than Hellenistic.
Meekness and braggadocio cheek by jowl; an emotional garrulousness
that almost deafens; passionate hysteria, but no passion; painful
pantomime; here manifestly every one lacked good breeding. How dare any
one make so much fuss about their little failings as do these pious
little fellows! No one cares a straw about it--let alone God. Finally
they actually wish to have "the crown of eternal life," do all these
little provincials! In return for what, in sooth? For what end? It is
impossible to carry insolence any further. An immortal Peter! who could
stand _him_! They have an ambition which makes one laugh: the _thing_
dishes up cut and dried his most personal life, his melancholies, and
common-or-garden troubles, as though the Universe itself were under
an obligation to bother itself about them, for it never gets tired of
wrapping up God Himself in the petty misery in which its troubles are
involved. And how about the atrocious form of this chronic hobnobbing
with God? This Jewish, and not merely Jewish, slobbering and clawing
importunacy towards God!--There exist little despised "heathen nations"
in East Asia, from whom these first Christians could have learnt
something worth learning, a little tact in worshiping; these nations
do not allow themselves to say aloud the name of their God. This seems
to me delicate enough, it is certain that it is _too_ delicate, and
not only for primitive Christians; to take a contrast, just recollect
Luther, the most "eloquent" and insolent peasant whom Germany has had,
think of the Lutherian tone, in which he felt quite the most in his
element during his _tête-à-têtes_ with God. Luther's opposition to the
mediæval saints of the Church (in particular, against "that devil's
hog, the Pope"), was, there is no doubt, at bottom the opposition of
a boor, who was offended at the _good etiquette_ of the Church, that
worship-etiquette of the sacerdotal code, which only admits to the
holy of holies the initiated and the silent, and shuts the door against
the boors. These definitely were not to be allowed a hearing in this
planet--but Luther the peasant simply wished it otherwise; as it was,
it was not German enough for him. He personally wished himself to talk
direct, to talk personally, to talk "straight from the shoulder" with
his God. Well, he's done it. The ascetic ideal, you will guess, was at
no time and in no place, a school of good taste, still less of good
manners--at the best it was a school for sacerdotal manners: that is,
it contains in itself something which was a deadly enemy to all good
manners. Lack of measure, opposition to measure, it is itself a "_non
plus ultra_."


23.

The ascetic ideal has corrupted not only health and taste, there are
also third, fourth, fifth, and sixth things which it has corrupted--I
shall take care not to go through the catalogue (when should I get to
the end?). I have here to expose not what this ideal effected; but
rather only what it _means_, on what it is based, what lies lurking
behind it and under it, that of which it is the provisional expression,
an obscure expression bristling with queries and misunderstandings.
And with _this_ object only in view I presumed "not to spare" my
readers a glance at the awfulness of its results, a glance at its
fatal results; I did this to prepare them for the final and most
awful aspect presented to me by the question of the significance of
that ideal. What is the significance of the _power_ of that ideal,
the monstrousness of its power? Why is it given such an amount of
scope? Why is not a better resistance offered against it? The ascetic
ideal expresses one will: where is the opposition will, in which an
opposition ideal expresses itself? The ascetic ideal has an aim--
this goal is, putting it generally, that all the other interests of
human life should, measured by its standard, appear petty and narrow;
it explains epochs, nations, men, in reference to this one end; it
forbids any other interpretation, any other end; it repudiates, denies,
affirms, confirms, only in the sense of its own interpretation (and was
there ever a more thoroughly elaborated system of interpretation?);
it subjects itself to no power, rather does it believe in its own
precedence over every power--it believes that nothing powerful exists
in the world that has not first got to receive from "it" a meaning,
a right to exist, a value, as being an instrument in its work, a
way and means to its end, to one end. Where is the _counterpart_ of
this complete system of will, end, and interpretation? Why is the
counterpart lacking? Where is the other "one aim"? But I am told it
is not lacking, that not only has it fought a long and fortunate fight
with that ideal, but that further it has already won the mastery over
that ideal in all essentials: let our whole modern _science_ attest
this--that modern science, which, like the genuine reality-philosophy
which it is, manifestly believes in itself alone, manifestly has the
courage to be itself, the will to be itself, and has got on well
enough without God, another world, and negative virtues.

With all their noisy agitator-babble, however, they effect nothing with
me; these trumpeters of reality are bad musicians, their voices do
not come from the deeps with sufficient audibility, they are not the
mouthpiece for the abyss of scientific knowledge--for to-day scientific
knowledge is an abyss--the word "science," in such trumpeter-mouths,
is a prostitution, an abuse, an impertinence. The truth is just the
opposite from what is maintained in the ascetic theory. Science has
to-day absolutely no belief in itself, let alone in an ideal superior
to itself, and wherever science still consists of passion, love,
ardour, suffering, it is not the opposition to that ascetic ideal, but
rather the _incarnation of its latest and noblest form_. Does that ring
strange? There are enough brave and decent working people, even among
the learned men of to-day, who like their little corner, and who, just
because they are pleased so to do, become at times indecently loud with
their demand, that people to-day should be quite content, especially
in science--for in science there is so much useful work to do. I do
not deny it--there is nothing I should like less than to spoil the
delight of these honest workers in their handiwork; for I rejoice in
their work. But the fact of science requiring hard work, the fact of
its having contented workers, is absolutely no proof of science as a
whole having to-day one end, one will, one ideal, one passion for a
great faith; the contrary, as I have said, is the case. When science
is not the latest manifestation of the ascetic ideal--but these are
cases of such rarity, selectness, and exquisiteness, as to preclude the
general judgment being affected thereby--science is a _hiding-place_
for every kind of cowardice, disbelief, remorse, _despectio sui_, bad
conscience--it is the very _anxiety_ that springs from having no ideal,
the suffering from the _lack_ of a great love, the discontent with an
enforced moderation. Oh, what does all science not cover to-day? How
much, at any rate, does it not try to cover? The diligence of our best
scholars, their senseless industry, their burning the candle of their
brain at both ends--their very mastery in their handiwork--how often is
the real meaning of all that to prevent themselves continuing to see a
certain thing? Science as a self-anæsthetic: _do you know that_? You
wound them--every one who consorts with scholars experiences this--you
wound them sometimes to the quick through just a harmless word; when
you think you are paying them a compliment you embitter them beyond all
bounds, simply because you didn't have the _finesse_ to infer the real
kind of customers you had to tackle, the _sufferer_ kind (who won't own
up even to themselves what they really are), the dazed and unconscious
kind who have only one fear--_coming to consciousness_.


24.

And now look at the other side, at those rare cases, of which I spoke,
the most supreme idealists to be found nowadays among philosophers and
scholars. Have we, perchance, found in them the sought-for _opponents_
of the ascetic ideal, its _anti-idealists_? In fact, they _believe_
themselves to be such, these "unbelievers" (for they are all of them
that): it seems that this idea is their last remnant of faith, the idea
of being opponents of this ideal, so earnest are they on this subject,
so passionate in word and gesture;--but does it follow that what
they believe must necessarily be _true_? We "knowers" have grown by
degrees suspicious of all kinds of believers, our suspicion has step by
step habituated us to draw just the opposite conclusions to what people
have drawn before; that is to say, wherever the strength of a belief
is particularly prominent to draw the conclusion of the difficulty of
proving what is believed, the conclusion of its actual _improbability_.
We do not again deny that "faith produces salvation": _for that very
reason_ we do deny that faith _proves_ anything,--a strong faith, which
produces happiness, causes suspicion of the object of that faith, it
does not establish its "truth," it does establish a certain probability
of--_illusion_. What is now the position in these cases? These
solitaries and deniers of to-day; these fanatics in one thing, in their
claim to intellectual cleanness; these hard, stern, continent, heroic
spirits, who constitute the glory of our time; all these pale atheists,
anti-Christians, immoralists, Nihilists; these sceptics, "ephectics,"
and "hectics" of the intellect (in a certain sense they are the
latter, both collectively and individually); these supreme idealists
of knowledge, in whom alone nowadays the intellectual conscience
dwells and is alive--in point of fact they believe themselves as far
away as possible from the ascetic ideal, do these "free, very free
spirits": and yet, if I may reveal what they themselves cannot see--for
they stand too near themselves: this ideal is simply _their_ ideal,
they represent it nowadays and perhaps no one else, they themselves
are its most spiritualised product, its most advanced picket of
skirmishers and scouts, its most insidious delicate and elusive form
of seduction.--If I am in any way a reader of riddles, then I will
be one with this sentence: for some time past there have been no
free spirits; _for they still believe in truth_. When the Christian
Crusaders in the East came into collision with that invincible order
of assassins, that order of free spirits _par excellence_, whose
lowest grade lives in a state of discipline such as no order of monks
has ever attained, then in some way or other they managed to get an
inkling of that symbol and tally-word, that was reserved for the
highest grade alone as their _secretum_, "Nothing is true, everything
is allowed,"--in sooth, that was _freedom_ of thought, thereby was
_taking leave_ of the very belief in truth. Has indeed any European,
any Christian freethinker, ever yet wandered into this proposition
and its labyrinthine consequences? Does he know _from experience_ the
Minotauros of this den.--I doubt it--nay, I know otherwise. Nothing
is more really alien to these "mono-fanatics," these _so-called_
"free spirits," than freedom and unfettering in that sense; in no
respect are they more closely tied, the absolute fanaticism of their
belief in truth is unparalleled. I know all this perhaps too much from
experience at close quarters--that dignified philosophic abstinence
to which a belief like that binds its adherents, that stoicism of
the intellect, which eventually vetoes negation as rigidly as it does
affirmation, that wish for standing still in front of the actual,
the _factum brutum_, that fatalism in "_petits faits_" (ce petit
faitalism, as I call it), in which French Science now attempts a kind
of moral superiority over German, this renunciation of interpretation
generally (that is, of forcing, doctoring, abridging, omitting,
suppressing, inventing, falsifying, and all the other _essential_
attributes of interpretation)--all this, considered broadly, expresses
the asceticism of virtue, quite as efficiently as does any repudiation
of the senses (it is at bottom only a _modus_ of that repudiation.)
But what forces it into that unqualified will for truth is the faith
_in the ascetic ideal itself_, even though it take the form of its
unconscious imperatives,--make no mistake about it, it is the faith,
I repeat, in a _metaphysical_ value, an _intrinsic_ value of truth,
of a character which is only warranted and guaranteed in this ideal
(it stands and falls with that ideal). Judged strictly, there does
not exist a science without its "hypotheses," the thought of such a
science is inconceivable, illogical: a philosophy, a faith, must always
exist first to enable science to gain thereby a direction, a meaning,
a limit and method, a _right_ to existence. (He who holds a contrary
opinion on the subject--he, for example, who takes it upon himself to
establish philosophy "upon a strictly scientific basis"--has first got
to "turn up-side-down" not only philosophy but also truth itself--the
gravest insult which could possibly be offered to two such respectable
females!) Yes, there is no doubt about it--and here I quote my _Joyful
Wisdom_, cp. Book V. Aph. 344: "The man who is truthful in that
daring and extreme fashion, which is the presupposition of the faith
in science, _asserts thereby a different world_ from that of life,
nature, and history; and in so far as he asserts the existence of that
different world, come, must he not similarly repudiate its counterpart,
this world, _our_ world? The belief on which our faith in science is
based has remained to this day a metaphysical belief--even we knowers
of to-day, we godless foes of metaphysics, we too take our fire from
that conflagration which was kindled by a thousand-year-old faith,
from that Christian belief, which was also Plato's belief, the belief
that God is truth, that truth is _divine_.... But what if this belief
becomes more and more incredible, what if nothing proves itself to
be divine, unless it be error, blindness, lies--what if God, Himself
proved Himself to be our _oldest lie_?"--It is necessary to stop at
this point and to consider the situation carefully. Science itself now
_needs_ a justification (which is not for a minute to say that there
is such a justification). Turn in this context to the most ancient and
the most modern philosophers: they all fail to realise the extent of
the need of a justification on the part of the Will for Truth--here
is a gap in every philosophy--what is it caused by? Because up to the
present the ascetic ideal dominated all philosophy, because Truth was
fixed as Being, as God, as the Supreme Court of Appeal, because Truth
was not allowed to be a problem. Do you understand this "allowed"?
From the minute that the belief in the God of the ascetic ideal is
repudiated, there exists _a new problem_: the problem of the value of
truth. The Will for Truth needed a critique--let us define by these
words our own task---the value of truth is tentatively _to be called
in question_.... (If this seems too laconically expressed, I recommend
the reader to peruse again that passage from the _Joyful Wisdom_ which
bears the title, "How far we also are still pious," Aph. 344, and best
of all the whole fifth book of that work, as well as the Preface to
_The Dawn of Day_.)


25.

No! You can't get round me with science, when I search for the natural
antagonists of the ascetic ideal, when I put the question: "_Where_
is the opposed will in which the _opponent ideal_ expresses itself?"
Science is not, by a long way, independent enough to fulfil this
function; in every department science needs an ideal value, a power
which creates values, and in whose _service_ it _can believe_ in itself
--science itself never creates values. Its relation to the ascetic
ideal is not in itself antagonistic; speaking roughly, it rather
represents the progressive force in the inner evolution of that ideal.
Tested more exactly, its opposition and antagonism are concerned not
with the ideal itself, but only with that ideal's outworks, its outer
garb, its masquerade, with its temporary hardening, stiffening, and
dogmatising--it makes the life in the ideal free once more, while it
repudiates its superficial elements. These two phenomena, science and
the ascetic ideal, both rest on the same basis––I have already made
this clear––the basis, I say, oft the same over-appreciation of truth
(more accurately the same belief in the _impossibility_ of valuing and
of criticising truth), and consequently they are _necessarily_ allies,
so that, in the event of their being attacked, they must always be
attacked and called into question together. A valuation of the ascetic
ideal inevitably entails a valuation of science as well; lose no time
in seeing this clearly, and be sharp to catch it! (_Art_, I am speaking
provisionally, for I will treat it on some other occasion in greater
detail,––art, I repeat, in which lying is sanctified and the _will for
deception_ has good conscience on its side, is much more fundamentally
opposed to the ascetic ideal than is science: Plato's instinct felt
this––Plato, the greatest enemy of art which Europe has produced up
to the present. Plato _versus_ Homer, that is the complete, the true
antagonism––on the one side, the whole–hearted "transcendental," the
great defamer of life; on the other, its involuntary panegyrist, the
_golden_ nature. An artistic subservience to the service of the ascetic
ideal is consequently the most absolute artistic _corruption_ that
there can be, though unfortunately it is one of the most frequent
phases, for nothing is more corruptible than an artist.) Considered
physiologically, moreover, science rests on the same, basis as
does the ascetic ideal: a certain _impoverishment of life_ is the
presupposition of the latter as of the former––add, frigidity of the
emotions, slackening of the _tempo_, the substitution of dialectic for
instinct, _seriousness_ impressed on mien and gesture (seriousness,
that most unmistakable sign of strenuous metabolism, of struggling,
toiling life). Consider the periods in a nation in which the learned
man comes into prominence; they are the periods of exhaustion, often
of sunset, of decay--the effervescing strength, the confidence in
life, the confidence in the future are no more. The preponderance of
the mandarins never signifies any good, any more than does the advent
of democracy, or arbitration instead of war, equal rights for women,
the religion of pity, and all the other symptoms of declining life.
(Science handled as a problem! what is the meaning of science?--upon
this point the Preface to the _Birth of Tragedy_.) No! this "modern
science"--mark you this well--is at times the _best_ ally for the
ascetic ideal, and for the very reason that it is the ally which is
most unconscious, most automatic, most secret, and most subterranean!
They have been playing into each other's hands up to the present, have
these "poor in spirit" and the scientific opponents of that ideal (take
care, by the bye, not to think that these opponents are the antithesis
of this ideal, that they are the _rich_ in spirit--that they are _not_;
I have called them the _hectic_ in spirit). As for these celebrated
victories of science; there is no doubt that they are _victories_--but
victories over what? There was not for a single minute any victory
among their list over the ascetic ideal, rather was it made stronger,
that is to say, more elusive, more abstract, more insidious, from
the fact that a wall, an outwork, that had got built on to the main
fortress and disfigured its appearance, should from time to time be
ruthlessly destroyed and broken down by science. Does any one seriously
suggest that the downfall of the theological astronomy signified the
downfall of that ideal?--Has, perchance, man grown _less in need_ of a
transcendental solution of his riddle of existence, because since that
time this existence has become more random, casual, and superfluous in
the _visible_ order of the universe? Has there not been since the time
of Copernicus an unbroken progress in the self-belittling of man and
his _will_ for belittling himself? Alas, his belief in his dignity, his
uniquenesses irreplaceableness in the scheme of existence, is gone--he
has become animal, literal, unqualified, and unmitigated animal, he
who in his earlier belief was almost God ("child of God," "demi-God").
Since Copernicus man seems to have fallen on to a steep plane--he rolls
faster and faster away from the centre--whither? into nothingness?
into the "thrilling sensation of his own nothingness"--Well! this
would be the straight way--to the old ideal?--All science (and by no
means only astronomy, with regard to the humiliating and deteriorating
effect of which Kant has made a remarkable confession, "it annihilates
my own importance"), all science, natural as much as _unnatural_--by
unnatural I mean the self-critique of reason--nowadays sets out to
talk man out of his present opinion of himself, as though that opinion
had been nothing but a bizarre piece of conceit; you might go so far
as to say that science finds its peculiar pride, its peculiar bitter
form of stoical ataraxia, in preserving man's _contempt of himself_,
that state which it took so much trouble to bring about, as man's final
and most serious claim to self-appreciation (rightly so, in point
of fact, for he who despises is always "one who has not forgotten
how to appreciate"). But does all this involve any real effort to
_counteract_ the ascetic ideal? Is it really seriously suggested that
Kant's _victory_ over the theological dogmatism about "God," "Soul,"
"Freedom," "Immortality," has damaged that ideal in any way (as the
theologians have imagined to be the case for a long time past)?––
And in this connection it does not concern us for a single minute,
if Kant himself intended any such consummation. It is certain that
from the time of Kant every type of transcendentalist is playing a
winning game––they are emancipated from the theologians; what luck!––he
has revealed to them that secret art, by which they can now pursue
their "heart's desire" on their own responsibility, and with all the
respectability of science. Similarly, who can grumble at the agnostics,
reverers, as they are, of the unknown and the absolute mystery, if they
now worship _their very query_ as God? (Xaver Doudan talks somewhere
of the _ravages_ which _l'habitude d'admirer l'inintelligible au lieu
de rester tout simplement dans l'inconnu_ has produced––the ancients,
he thinks, must have been exempt from those ravages.) Supposing that
everything, "known" to man, fails to satisfy his desires, and on the
contrary contradicts and horrifies them, what a divine way out of all
this to be able to look for the responsibility, not in the "desiring"
but in "knowing"!––"There is no knowledge. _Consequently_––there is
a God"; what a novel _elegantia syllogism_i! what a triumph for the
ascetic ideal!


26.

Or, perchance, does the whole of modern history show in its demeanour
greater confidence in life, greater confidence in its ideals? Its
loftiest pretension is now to be a _mirror_; it repudiates all
teleology; it will have no more "proving"; it disdains to play the
judge, and thereby shows its good taste––it asserts as little as it
denies, it fixes, it "describes." All this is to a high degree ascetic,
but at the same time it is to a much greater degree _nihilistic_; make
no mistake about this! You see in the historian a gloomy, hard, but
determined gaze,––an eye that _looks out_ as an isolated North Pole
explorer looks out (perhaps so as not to look within, so as not to look
back?)––there is snow––here is life silenced, the last crows which
caw here are called "whither?" "Vanity," "Nada"––here nothing more
flourishes and grows, at the most the metapolitics of St. Petersburg
and the "pity" of Tolstoi. But as for that other school of historians,
a perhaps still more "modern" school, a voluptuous and lascivious
school which ogles life and the ascetic ideal with equal fervour,
which uses the word "artist" as a glove, and has nowadays established
a "corner" for itself, in all the praise given to contemplation; oh,
what a thirst do these sweet intellectuals excite even for ascetics
and winter landscapes! Nay! The devil take these "contemplative" folk!
How much liefer would I wander with those historical Nihilists through
the gloomiest, grey, cold mist!––nay, I shall not mind listening
(supposing I have to choose) to one who is completely unhistorical
and anti-historical (a man, like Dühring for instance, over whose
periods a hitherto shy and unavowed species of "beautiful souls" has
grown intoxicated in contemporary Germany, _the species anarchistica_
within the educated proletariate). The "contemplative" are a hundred
times worse––I never knew anything which produced such intense
nausea as one of those "objective" _chairs_,[6] one of those scented
mannikins-about-town of history, a thing half-priest, half-satyr (Renan
_parfum_), which betrays by the high, shrill falsetto of his applause
what he lacks and where he lacks it, who betrays where in this case
the Fates have plied their ghastly shears, alas! in too surgeon-like
a fashion! This is distasteful to me, and irritates my patience; let
him keep patient at such sights who has nothing to lose thereby,––such
a sight enrages me, such spectators embitter me against the "play,"
even more than does the play itself (history itself, you understand);
Anacreontic moods imperceptibly come over me. This Nature, who gave
to the steer its horn, to the lion its χάσμ ὀδοντων, for what purpose
did Nature give me my foot?––To kick, by St. Anacreon, and not merely
to run away! To trample on all the worm-eaten "chairs," the cowardly
contemplators, the lascivious eunuchs of history, the flirters with
ascetic ideals, the righteous hypocrites of impotence! All reverence
on my part to the ascetic ideal, _in so far as it is honourable_! So
long as it believes in itself and plays no pranks on us! But I like
not all these coquettish bugs who have an insatiate ambition to smell
of the infinite, until eventually the infinite smells of bugs; I like
not the whited sepulchres with their stagey reproduction of life;
I like not the tired and the used up who wrap themselves in wisdom
and look "objective"; I like not the agitators dressed up as heroes,
who hide their dummy-heads behind the stalking-horse of an ideal; I
like not the ambitious artists who would fain play the ascetic and
the priest, and are at bottom nothing but tragic clowns; I like not,
again, these newest speculators in idealism, the Anti-Semites, who
nowadays roll their eyes in the patent Christian-Aryan-man-of-honour
fashion, and by an abuse of moralist attitudes and agitation dodges, so
cheap as to exhaust any patience, strive to excite all the blockhead
elements in the populace (the invariable success of _every_ kind of
intellectual charlatanism in present-day Germany hangs together with
the almost indisputable and already quite palpable desolation of the
German mind, whose cause I look for in a too exclusive diet, of papers,
politics, beer, and Wagnerian music, not forgetting the condition
precedent of this diet, the national exclusiveness and vanity, the
strong but narrow principle, "Germany, Germany above everything,"[7]
and finally the _paralysis agitans_ of "modern ideas"). Europe
nowadays is, above all, wealthy and ingenious in means of excitement;
it apparently has no more crying necessity than _stimulantia_ and
alcohol. Hence the enormous counterfeiting of ideals, those most fiery
spirits of the mind; hence too the repulsive, evil-smelling, perjured,
pseudo–alcoholic air everywhere. I should like to know how many cargoes
of imitation idealism, of hero-costumes and high falutin' clap-trap,
how many casks of sweetened pity liqueur (Firm: _la religion de la
souffrance_), how many crutches of righteous indignation for the help
of these flat-footed intellects, how many _comedians_ of the Christian
moral ideal would need to-day to be exported from Europe, to enable
its air to smell pure again. It is obvious that, in regard to this
over-production, a new _trade_ possibility lies open; it is obvious
that there is a new business to be done in little ideal idols and
obedient "idealists"--don't pass over this tip! Who has sufficient
courage? We have in _our hands_ the possibility of idealising the whole
earth. But what am I talking about courage? we only need one thing
here--a hand, a free, a very free hand.


27.

Enough! enough! let us leave these curiosities and complexities of
the modern spirit, which excite as much laughter as disgust. Our
problem can certainly do without them, the problem of _meaning_ of
the ascetic ideal--what has it got to do with yesterday or to-day?
those things shall be handled by me more thoroughly and severely in
another connection (under the title "A Contribution to the History of
European Nihilism," I refer for this to a work which I am preparing:
_The Will to Power, an Attempt at a Transvaluation of All Values_).
The only reason why I come to allude to it here is this: the ascetic
ideal has at times, even in the most intellectual sphere, only one
real kind of enemies and _damagers_: these are the comedians of this
ideal--for they awake mistrust. Everywhere otherwise, where the mind
is at work seriously, powerfully, and without counterfeiting, it
dispenses altogether now with an ideal (the popular expression for this
abstinence is "Atheism")--_with the exception of the will for truth_.
But this will, this _remnant_ of an ideal, is, if you will believe me,
that ideal itself in its severest and cleverest formulation, esoteric
through and through, stripped of all outworks, and consequently not so
much its remnant as its _kernel_. Unqualified honest atheism (and its
air only do we breathe, we, the most intellectual men of this age) is
_not_ opposed to that ideal, to the extent that it appears to be; it is
rather one of the final phases of its evolution, one of its syllogisms
and pieces of inherent logic--it is the awe-inspiring catastrophe of
a two-thousand-year training in truth, which finally forbids itself
_the lie of the belief in God_. (The same course of development in
India--quite independently, and consequently of some demonstrative
value--the same ideal driving to the same conclusion the decisive point
reached five hundred years before the European era, or more precisely
at the time of Buddha--it started in the Sankhyam philosophy, and then
this was popularised through Buddha, and made into a religion.)

_What_, I put the question with all strictness, has really _triumphed_
over the Christian God? The answer stands in my _Joyful Wisdom_, Aph.
357: "the Christian morality itself, the idea of truth, taken as it was
with increasing seriousness, the confessor-subtlety of the Christian
conscience translated and sublimated into the scientific conscience
into intellectual cleanness at any price. Regarding Nature as though
it were a proof of the goodness and guardianship of God; interpreting
history in honour of a divine reason, as a constant proof of a moral
order of the world and a moral teleology; explaining our own personal
experiences, as pious men have for long enough explained them, as
though every arrangement, every nod, every single thing were invented
and sent out of love for the salvation of the soul; all this is now
done away with, all this has the conscience _against_ it, and is
regarded by every subtler conscience as disreputable, dishonourable,
as lying, feminism, weakness, cowardice--by means of this severity,
if by means of anything at all, are we, in sooth, _good Europeans_
and heirs of Europe's longest and bravest self-mastery.". .. All
great things go to ruin by reason of themselves, by reason of an act
of self-dissolution: so wills the law of life, the law of necessary
"self-mastery" even in the essence of life--ever is the law-giver
finally exposed to the cry, "_patere legem quam ipse tulisti_"; in
thus wise did Christianity _go to ruin as a dogma_, through its own
morality; in thus wise must Christianity go again to ruin to-day as
a morality--we are standing on the threshold of this event. After
Christian truthfulness has drawn one conclusion after the other, it
finally draws its _strongest conclusion_, its conclusion against
itself; this, however, happens, when it puts the question, "_what is
the meaning of every will for truth?_" And here again do I touch on my
problem, on our problem, my unknown friends (for as yet _I know_ of no
friends): what sense has our whole being, if it does not mean that in
our own selves that will for truth has come to its own consciousness
_as a problem_?---By reason of this attainment of self-consciousness
on the part of the will for truth, morality from henceforward--there
is no doubt about it--goes _to pieces_: this is that great hundred-act
play that is reserved for the next two centuries of Europe, the most
terrible, the most mysterious, and perhaps also the most hopeful of all
plays.


28.

If you except the ascetic ideal, man, the animal man had no meaning.
His existence on earth contained no end; "What is the purpose of man
at all?" was a question without an answer; the _will_ for man and the
world was lacking; behind every great human destiny rang as a refrain
a still greater "Vanity!" The ascetic ideal simply means this: that
something _was lacking_, that a tremendous _void_ encircled man--he did
not know how to justify himself, to explain himself, to affirm himself,
he _suffered_ from the problem of his own meaning. He suffered also in
other ways, he was in the main a _diseased_ animal; but his problem
was not suffering itself, but the lack of an answer to that crying
question, "_To what purpose_ do we suffer?" Man, the bravest animal
and the one most inured to suffering, does _not_ repudiate suffering in
itself: he _wills_ it, he even seeks it out, provided that he is shown
a meaning for it, a _purpose_ of suffering. _Not_ suffering, but the
senselessness of suffering was the curse which till then lay spread
over humanity--_and the ascetic ideal gave it a meaning!_ It was up
till then the only meaning; but any meaning is better than no meaning;
the ascetic ideal was in that connection the _"faute de mieux" par
excellence_ that existed at that time. In that ideal suffering _found
an explanation_; the tremendous gap seemed filled; the door to all
suicidal Nihilism was closed. The explanation--there is no doubt about
it--brought in its train new suffering, deeper, more penetrating, more
venomous, gnawing more brutally into life: it brought all suffering
under the perspective of _guilt_; but in spite of all that--man was
_saved_ thereby, he had a _meaning_, and from henceforth was no more
like a leaf in the wind, a shuttle-cock of chance, of nonsense, he
could now "will" something--absolutely immaterial to what end, to what
purpose, with what means he wished: _the will itself was saved_. It
is absolutely impossible to disguise _what_ in point of fact is made
clear by every complete will that has taken its direction from the
ascetic ideal: this hate of the human, and even more of the animal,
and more still of the material, this horror of the senses, of reason
itself, this fear of happiness and beauty, this desire to get right
away from all illusion, change, growth, death, wishing and even
desiring--all this means--let us have the courage to grasp it--a will
for Nothingness, a will opposed to life, a repudiation of the most
fundamental conditions of life, but it is and remains _a will_!--and
to say at the end that which I said at the beginning--man will wish
_Nothingness_ rather than not wish _at all_.



[1] An allusion to the celebrated monologue in William Tell.

[2] Mistress Sly.--Tr.

[3] In the German text "Heiland." This has the double meaning of
"healer" and "saviour."--H. B. S.

[4] "Horrible beast."

[5] "Here I stand! I cannot help myself. God help me! Amen"--were
Luther's words before the Reichstag at Worms.--H. B. S.

[6] E.g. Lectureships.

[7] An allusion to the well-known patriotic song.--H. B. S.




PEOPLES AND COUNTRIES. Translated by J. M. KENNEDY.


[The following twenty-seven fragments were intended by Nietzsche to
form a supplement to Chapter VIII. of _Beyond Good and Evil_, dealing
with Peoples and Countries.]


1.

The Europeans now imagine themselves as representing, in the main, the
highest types of men on earth.


2.

A characteristic of Europeans: inconsistency between word and deed;
the Oriental is true to himself in daily life. How the European has
established colonies is explained by his nature, which resembles that
of a beast of prey.

This inconsistency is explained by the fact that Christianity has
abandoned the class from which it sprang.

This is the difference between us and the Hellenes: their morals grew
up among the governing castes. Thucydides' morals are the same as those
that exploded everywhere with Plato.

Attempts towards honesty at the Renaissance, for example: always for
the benefit of the arts. Michael Angelo's conception of God as the
"Tyrant of the World" was an honest one.


3.

I rate Michael Angelo higher than Raphael, because, through all the
Christian clouds and prejudices of his time, he saw the ideal of a
culture _nobler_ than the Christo-Raphaelian: whilst Raphael truly
and modestly glorified only the values handed down to him, and did
not carry within himself any inquiring, yearning instincts. Michael
Angelo, on the other hand, saw and felt the problem of the law-giver of
new values: the problem of the conqueror made perfect, who first had
to subdue the "hero within himself," the man exalted to his highest
pedestal, master even of his pity, who mercilessly shatters and
annihilates everything that does not bear his own stamp, shining in
Olympian divinity. Michael Angelo was naturally only at certain moments
so high and so far beyond his age and Christian Europe: for the most
part he adopted a condescending attitude towards the eternal feminine
in Christianity; it would seem, indeed, that in the end he broke down
before her, and gave up the ideal of his most inspired hours. It was
an ideal which only a man in the strongest and highest vigour of life
could bear; but not a man advanced in years! Indeed, he would have had
to demolish Christianity with his ideal! But he was not thinker and
philosopher enough for that Perhaps Leonardo da Vinci alone of those
artists had a really super-Christian outlook. He knows the East, the
"land of dawn," within himself as well as without himself. There is
something super-European and silent in him: a characteristic of every
one who has seen too wide a circle of things good and bad.


4.

How much we have learnt and learnt anew in fifty years! The whole
Romantic School with its belief in "the people" is refuted! No Homeric
poetry as "popular" poetry! No deification of the great powers of
Nature! No deduction from language-relationship to race-relationship!
No "intellectual contemplations" of the supernatural! No truth
enshrouded in religion!

The problem of truthfulness is quite a new one. I am astonished. From
this standpoint we regard such natures as Bismarck as culpable out of
carelessness, such as Richard Wagner out of want of modesty; we would
condemn Plato for his _pia fraus_, Kant for the derivation of his
Categorical Imperative, his own belief certainly not having come to him
from this source.

Finally, even doubt turns against itself: doubt in doubt. And the
question as to the _value_ of truthfulness and its extent lies _there_.


5.

What I observe with pleasure in the German is his Mephistophelian
nature; but, to tell the truth, one must have a higher conception of
Mephistopheles than Goethe had, who found it necessary to _diminish_
his Mephistopheles in order to magnify his "inner Faust." The true
German Mephistopheles is much more dangerous, bold, wicked, and
cunning, and consequently more open-hearted: remember the nature
of Frederick the Great, or of that much greater Frederick, the
Hohenstaufen, Frederick II.

The real German Mephistopheles crosses the Alps, and believes that
everything there belongs to him. Then he recovers himself, like
Winckelmann, like Mozart. He looks upon Faust and Hamlet as
caricatures, invented to be laughed at, and upon Luther also. Goethe
had his good German moments, when he laughed inwardly at all these
things. But then he fell back again into his cloudy moods.


6.

Perhaps the Germans have only grown up in a wrong climate! There is
something in them that might be Hellenic!--something that is awakened
when they are brought into touch with the South--Winckelmann, Goethe,
Mozart. We should not forget, however, that we are still young. Luther
is still our last event; our last book is still the Bible. The Germans
have never yet "moralised." Also, the very food of the Germans was
their doom: its consequence, Philistinism.


7.

The Germans are a dangerous people: they are experts at inventing
intoxicants. Gothic, rococo (according to Semper), the historical sense
and exoticism, Hegel, Richard Wagner--Leibniz, too (dangerous at the
present day)--(they even idealised the serving soul as the virtue of
scholars and soldiers, also as the simple mind). The Germans may well
be the most composite people on earth.

"The people of the Middle," the inventors of porcelain, and of a kind
of Chinese breed of Privy Councillor.


8.

The smallness and baseness of the German soul were not and are not
consequences of the system of small states; for it is well known that
the inhabitants of much smaller states were proud and independent:
and it is not a large state _per se_ that makes souls freer and more
manly. The man whose soul obeys the slavish command: "Thou shalt and
must kneel!" in whose body there is an involuntary bowing and scraping
to titles, orders, gracious glances from above--well, such a man
in an "Empire" will only bow all the more deeply and lick the dust
more fervently in the presence of the greater sovereign than in the
presence of the lesser: this cannot be doubted. We can still see in the
lower classes of Italians that aristocratic self-sufficiency; manly
discipline and self-confidence still form a part of the long history
of their country: these are virtues which once manifested themselves
before their eyes. A poor Venetian gondolier makes a far better figure
than a Privy Councillor from Berlin, and is even a better man in the
end--any one can see this. Just ask the women.


9.

Most artists, even some of the greatest (including the historians) have
up to the present belonged to the serving classes (whether they serve
people of high position or princes or women or "the masses"), not to
speak of their dependence upon the Church and upon moral law. Thus
Rubens portrayed the nobility of his age; but only according to their
vague conception of taste, not according to his own measure of beauty
on the whole, therefore, against his own taste. Van Dyck was nobler in
this respect: who in all those whom he painted added a certain amount
of what he himself most highly valued: he did not descend from himself,
but rather lifted up others to himself when he "rendered."

The slavish humility of the artist to his public (as Sebastian Bach has
testified in undying and outrageous words in the dedication of his High
Mass) is perhaps more difficult to perceive in music; but it is all the
more deeply engrained. A hearing would be refused me if I endeavoured
to impart my views on this subject. Chopin possesses distinction, like
Van Dyck. The disposition of Beethoven is that of a proud peasant;
of Haydn, that of a proud servant. Mendelssohn, too, possesses
distinction--like Goethe, in the most natural way in the world.


10.

We could at any time have counted on the fingers of one hand those
German learned men who possessed wit: the remainder have understanding,
and a few of them, happily, that famous "childlike character"
which divines.... It is our privilege: with this "divination" German
science has discovered some things which we can hardly conceive of, and
which, after all, do not exist, perhaps. It is only the Jews among the
Germans who do not "divine" like them.


11.

As Frenchmen reflect the politeness and _esprit_ of French society,
so do Germans reflect something of the deep, pensive earnestness of
their mystics and musicians, and also of their silly childishness. The
Italian exhibits a great deal of republican distinction and art, and
can show himself to be noble and proud without vanity.


12.

A larger number of the higher and better-endowed men will, I hope, have
in the end so much self-restraint as to be able to get rid of their bad
taste for affectation and sentimental darkness, and to turn against
Richard Wagner as much as against Schopenhauer. These two Germans are
leading us to ruin; they flatter our dangerous qualities. A stronger
future is prepared for us in Goethe, Beethoven, and Bismarck than in
these racial aberrations. We have had no philosophers yet.


13.

The peasant is the commonest type of noblesse, for he is dependent upon
himself most of all. Peasant blood is still the best blood in Germany
--for example, Luther, Niebuhr, Bismarck.

Bismarck a Slav. Let any one look upon the face of Germans. Everything
that had manly, exuberant blood in it went abroad. Over the smug
populace remaining, the slave-souled people, there came an improvement
from abroad, especially by a mixture of Slavonic blood.

The Brandenburg nobility and the Prussian nobility in general (and the
peasant of certain North German districts), comprise at present the
most manly natures in Germany.

That the manliest men shall rule: this is only the natural order of
things.


14.

The future of German culture rests with the sons of the Prussian
officers.


15.

There has always been a want of wit in Germany, and mediocre heads
attain there to the highest honours, because even they are rare. What
is most highly prized is diligence and perseverance and a certain
cold-blooded, critical outlook, and, for the sake of such qualities,
German scholarship and the German military system have become paramount
in Europe.


16.

Parliaments may be very useful to a strong and versatile statesman:
he has something there to rely upon (every such thing must, however,
be able to resist!)--upon which he can throw a great deal of
responsibility. On the whole, however, I could wish that the counting
mania and the superstitious belief in majorities were not established
in Germany, as with the Latin races, and that one could finally invent
something new even in politics! It is senseless and dangerous to let
the custom of universal suffrage--which is still but a short time under
cultivation, and could easily be uprooted--take a deeper root: whilst,
of course, its introduction was merely an expedient to steer clear of
temporary difficulties.


17.

Can any one interest himself in this German Empire? Where is the new
thought? Is it only a new combination of power? All the worse, if it
does not know its own mind. Peace and laisser aller are not types of
politics for which I have any respect. Ruling, and helping the highest
thoughts to victory--the only things that can make me interested in
Germany. England's small-mindedness is the great danger now on earth.
I observe more inclination towards greatness in the feelings of the
Russian Nihilists than in those of the English Utilitarians. We require
an intergrowth of the German and Slav races, and we require, too, the
cleverest financiers, the Jews, for us to become masters of the world.

(a) The sense of reality.

(b) A giving-up of the English principle of the people's right of
representation. We require the representation of the great interests.

(c) We require an unconditional union with Russia, together with a
mutual plan of action which shall not permit any English schemata to
obtain the mastery in Russia. No American future!

(d) A national system of politics is untenable, and embarrassment by
Christian views is a very great evil. In Europe all sensible people are
sceptics, whether they say so or not.


18.

I see over and beyond all these national wars, new "empires," and
whatever else lies in the foreground. What I am concerned with--for I
see it preparing itself slowly and hesitatingly--is the United Europe.
It was the only real work, the one impulse in the souls, of all the
broad-minded and deep-thinking men of this century--this preparation
of a new synthesis, and the tentative effort to anticipate the future
of "the European." Only in their weaker moments, or when they grew
old, did they fall back again into the national narrowness of the
"Fatherlanders"--then they were once more "patriots." I am thinking
of men like Napoleon, Heinrich Heine, Goethe, Beethoven, Stendhal,
Schopenhauer. Perhaps Richard Wagner likewise belongs to their number,
concerning whom, as a successful type of German obscurity, nothing can
be said without some such "perhaps."

But to the help of such minds as feel the need of a new unity there
comes a great explanatory economic fact: the small States of Europe--I
refer to all our present kingdoms and "empires"--will in a short time
become economically untenable, owing to the mad, uncontrolled struggle
for the possession of local and international trade. Money is even
now compelling European nations to amalgamate into one Power. In
order, however, that Europe may enter into the battle for the mastery
of the world with good prospects of victory (it is easy to perceive
against whom this battle will be waged), she must probably "come to
an understanding" with England. The English colonies are needed for
this struggle, just as much as modern Germany, to play her new rôle of
broker and middleman, requires the colonial possessions of Holland.
For no one any longer believes that England alone is strong enough to
continue to act her old part for fifty years more; the impossibility
of shutting out _homines novi_ from the government will ruin her, and
her continual change of political parties is a fatal obstacle to the
carrying out of any tasks which require to be spread out over a long
period of time. A man must to-day be a soldier first and foremost that
he may not afterwards lose his credit as a merchant. Enough; here,
as in other matters, the coming century will be found following in
the footsteps of Napoleon--the first man, and the man of greatest
initiative and advanced views, of modern times. For the tasks of the
next century, the methods of popular representation and parliaments are
the most inappropriate imaginable.


19.

The condition of Europe in the next century will once again lead to the
breeding of manly virtues, because men will live in continual danger.
Universal military service is already the curious antidote which we
possess for the effeminacy of democratic ideas, and it has grown up out
of the struggle of the nations. (Nation--men who speak one language
and read the same newspapers. These men now call themselves "nations,"
and would far too readily trace their descent from the same source and
through the same history; which, however, even with the assistance of
the most malignant lying in the past, they have not succeeded in
doing.)


20.

What quagmires and mendacity must there be about if it is possible,
in the modern European hotch-potch, to raise questions of "race"! (It
being premised that the origin of such writers is not in Horneo and
Borneo.)


21.

Maxim: To associate with no man who takes any part in the mendacious
race swindle.


22.

With the freedom of travel now existing, groups of men of the same
kindred can join together and establish communal habits and customs.
The overcoming of "nations."


23.

To make Europe a centre of culture, national stupidities should not
make us blind to the fact that in the higher regions there is already a
continuous reciprocal dependence. France and German philosophy. Richard
Wagner and Paris (1830-50). Goethe and Greece. All things are impelled
towards, a synthesis of the European past in the highest types of mind.


24.

Mankind has still much before it--how, generally speaking, could
the ideal be taken from the past? Perhaps merely in relation to the
present, which latter is possibly a lower region.


25.

This is our distrust, which recurs again and again; our care, which
never lets us sleep; our question, which no one listens to or wishes
to listen to; our Sphinx, near which there is more than one precipice:
we believe that the men of present-day Europe are deceived in regard
to the things which we love best, and a pitiless demon (no, not
pitiless, only indifferent and puerile)--plays with our hearts and
their enthusiasm, as it may perhaps have already played with everything
that lived and loved; I believe that everything which we Europeans
of to-day are in the habit of admiring as the values of all these
respected things called "humanity," "mankind," "sympathy," "pity," may
be of some value as the debilitation and moderating of certain powerful
and dangerous primitive impulses. Nevertheless, in the long run all
these things are nothing else than the belittlement of the entire type
"man," his mediocrisation, if in such a desperate situation I may make
use of such a desperate expression. I think that the commedia umana for
an epicurean spectator-god must consist in this: that the Europeans, by
virtue of their growing morality, believe in all their innocence and
vanity that they are rising higher and higher, whereas the truth is
that they are sinking lower and lower--i.e. through the cultivation of
all the virtues which are useful to a herd, and through the repression
of the other and contrary virtues which give rise to a new, higher,
stronger, masterful race of men--the first-named virtues merely develop
the herd-animal in man and stabilitate the animal "man," for until now
man has been "the animal as yet unstabilitated."


26.

Genius and Epoch.--Heroism is no form of selfishness, for one is
shipwrecked by it.... The direction of power is often conditioned by
the state of the period in which the great man happens to be born; and
this fact brings about the superstition that he is the expression of
his time. But this same power could be applied in several different
ways; and between him and his time there is always this difference:
that public opinion always worships the herd instinct,--_i.e._ the
instinct of the weak,--while he, the strong man, rights for strong
ideals.


27.

The fate now overhanging Europe is simply this: that it is exactly
her strongest sons that come rarely and late to the spring-time of
their existence; that, as a rule, when they are already in their early
youth they perish, saddened, disgusted, darkened in mind, just because
they have already, with the entire passion of their strength, drained
to the dregs the cup of disillusionment, which in our days means the
cup of knowledge, and they would not have been the strongest had
they not also been the most disillusionised. For that is the test of
their power--they must first of all rise out of the illness of their
epoch to reach their own health. A late spring-time is their mark of
distinction; also, let us add, late merriment, late folly, the late
exuberance of joy! For this is the danger of to-day: everything that we
loved when we were young has betrayed us. Our last love--the love which
makes us acknowledge her, our love for Truth--let us take care that
she, too, does not betray us!







PREFACE


1

As it is my intention within a very short time to confront my
fellow-men with the very greatest demand that has ever yet been made
upon them, it seems to me _above_ all necessary to declare here who
and what I am. As a matter of fact, this ought to be pretty well
known already, for I have not "held my tongue" about myself. But
the disparity which obtains between the greatness of my task and the
smallness of my contemporaries, is revealed by the fact that people
have neither heard me nor yet seen me. I live on my own self-made
credit, and it is probably only a prejudice to suppose that I am alive
at all. I do but require to speak to any one of the scholars who come
to the Ober-Engadine in the summer in order to convince myself that I
am _not_ alive.... Under these circumstances, it is a duty--and one
against which my customary reserve, and to a still greater degree the
pride of my instincts, rebel--to say: _Listen! for I am such and such a
person. For Heaven's sake do not confound me with any one else!_



2

I am, for instance, in no wise a bogey man, or moral monster. On the
contrary, I am the very opposite in nature to the kind of man that
has been honoured hitherto as virtuous. Between ourselves, it seems
to me that this is precisely a matter on which I may feel proud. I
am a disciple of the philosopher Dionysus, and I would prefer to be
even a satyr than a saint. But just read this book! Maybe I have here
succeeded in expressing this contrast in a cheerful and at the same
time sympathetic manner--maybe this is the only purpose of the present
work.

The very last thing I should promise to accomplish would be to
"improve" mankind. I do not set up any new idols; may old idols only
learn what it costs to have legs of clay. To overthrow idols (idols
is the name I give to all ideals) is much more like my business. In
proportion as an ideal world has been falsely assumed, reality has been
robbed of its value, its meaning, and its truthfulness.... The "true
world" and the "apparent world"--in plain English, the fictitious world
and reality.... Hitherto the _lie_ of the ideal has been the curse of
reality; by means of it the very source of mankind's instincts has
become mendacious and false; so much so that those values have come to
be worshipped which are the exact _opposite_ of the ones which would
ensure man's prosperity, his future, and his great right to a future.



3

He who knows how to breathe in the air of my writings is conscious
that it is the air of the heights, that it is bracing. A man must be
built for it, otherwise the chances are that it will chill him. The
ice is near, the loneliness is terrible--but how serenely everything
lies in the sunshine! how freely one can breathe! how much, one feels,
lies beneath one! Philosophy, as I have understood it hitherto, is
a voluntary retirement into regions of ice and mountain-peaks--the
seeking--out of everything strange and questionable in existence,
everything upon which, hitherto, morality has set its ban. Through
long experience, derived from such wanderings in forbidden country, I
acquired an opinion very different from that which may seem generally
desirable, of the causes which hitherto have led to men's moralising
and idealising. The secret history of philosophers, the psychology of
their great names, was revealed to me. How much truth can a certain
mind endure; how much truth can it dare?--these questions became for
me ever more and more the actual test of values. Error (the belief in
the ideal) is not blindness; error is cowardice.... Every conquest,
every step forward in knowledge, is the outcome of courage, of hardness
towards one's self, of cleanliness towards one's self. I do not refute
ideals; all I do is to draw on my gloves in their presence.... _Nitimur
in vetitum;_ with this device my philosophy will one day be victorious;
for that which has hitherto been most stringently forbidden is, without
exception, Truth.



4

In my lifework, my _Zarathustra_ holds a place apart. With it, I gave
my fellow-men the greatest gift that has ever been bestowed upon them.
This book, the voice of which speaks out across the ages, is not only
the loftiest book on earth, literally the book of mountain air,--the
whole phenomenon, mankind, lies at an incalculable distance beneath
it,--but it is also the deepest book, born of the inmost abundance of
truth; an inexhaustible well, into which no pitcher can be lowered
without coming up again laden with gold and with goodness. Here it is
not a "prophet" who speaks, one of those gruesome hybrids of sickness
and Will to Power, whom men call founders of religions. If a man would
not do a sad wrong to his wisdom, he must, above all give proper
heed to the tones--the halcyonic tones--that fall from the lips of
Zarathustra:--

"The most silent words are harbingers of the storm; thoughts that come
on dove's feet lead the world.

"The figs fall from the trees; they are good and sweet, and, when they
fall, their red skins are rent.

"A north wind am I unto ripe figs.

"Thus, like figs, do these precepts drop down to you, my friends; now
drink their juice and their sweet pulp.

"It is autumn all around, and clear sky, and afternoon."

No fanatic speaks to you here; this is not a "sermon"; no faith is
demanded in these pages. From out an infinite treasure of light and
well of joy, drop by drop, my words fall out--a slow and gentle gait
is the cadence of these discourses. Such things can reach only the
most elect; it is a rare privilege to be a listener here; not every?
one who likes can have ears to hear Zarathustra. I Is not Zarathustra,
because of these things, a _seducer?_ ... But what, indeed, does he
himself say, when for the first time he goes back to his solitude? Just
the reverse of that which any "Sage," "Saint," "Saviour of the world,"
and other decadent would say.... Not only his words, but he himself is
other than they.

"Alone do I now go, my disciples! Get ye also hence, and alone! Thus
would I have it.

"Verily, I beseech you: take your leave of me and arm yourselves
against Zarathustra! And better still, be ashamed of him! Maybe he hath
deceived you.

"The knight of knowledge must be able not only to love his enemies, but
also to hate his friends.

"The man who remaineth a pupil requiteth his teacher but ill. And why
would ye not pluck at my wreath?

"Ye honour me; but what if your reverence should one day break down?
Take heed, lest a statue crush you.

"Ye say ye believe in Zarathustra? But of; what account is Zarathustra?
Ye are my believers: but of what account are all believers?

"Ye had not yet sought yourselves when ye found me. Thus do all
believers; therefore is all believing worth so little.

"Now I bid you lose me and find yourselves; and only when ye have all
denied me will I come back unto you."

FRIEDRICH NIETZSCHE.





On this perfect day, when everything is ripening, and not only the
grapes are getting brown, a ray of sunshine has fallen on my life: I
looked behind me, I looked before me, and never have I seen so many
good things all at once. Not in vain have I buried my four-and-fortieth
year to-day; I had the _right_ to bury it--that in it which still
had life, has been saved and is immortal. The first book of the
_Transvaluation of all Values, The Songs of Zarathustra, The Twilight
of the Idols,_ my attempt, to philosophise with the hammer--all these
things are the gift of this year, and even of its last quarter. _How
could I help being thankful to the whole of my life?_

That is why I am now going to tell myself the story of my life.




ECCE HOMO


HOW ONE BECOMES WHAT ONE IS




WHY I AM SO WISE



1


The happiness of my existence, its unique character perhaps, consists
in its fatefulness: to speak in a riddle, as my own father I am already
dead, as my own mother I still live and grow old. This double origin,
taken as it were from the highest and lowest rungs of the ladder of
life, at once a decadent and a beginning, this, if anything, explains
that neutrality, that freedom from partisanship in regard to the
general problem of existence, which perhaps distinguishes me. To the
first indications of ascending or of descending life my nostrils are
more sensitive than those of any man that has yet lived. In this domain
I am a master to my backbone--I know both sides, for I am both sides.
My father died in his six-and-thirtieth year: he was delicate, lovable,
and morbid, like one who is preordained to pay simply a flying visit--a
gracious reminder of life rather than life itself. In the same year
that his life declined mine also declined: in my six-and-thirtieth year
I reached the lowest point in my vitality,--I still lived, but my eyes
could distinguish nothing that lay three paces away from me. At that
time--it was the year 1879--I resigned my professorship at Bâle, lived
through the summer like a shadow in St. Moritz, and spent the following
winter, the most sunless of my life, like a shadow in Naumburg. This
was my lowest ebb. During this period I wrote _The Wanderer and His
Shadow._ Without a doubt I was conversant with shadows then. The winter
that followed, my first winter in Genoa, brought forth that sweetness
and spirituality which is almost inseparable from extreme poverty
of blood and muscle, in the shape of _The Dawn of Day,_ The perfect
lucidity and cheerfulness, the intellectual exuberance even, that this
work reflects, coincides, in my case, not only with the most profound
physiological weakness, but also with an excess of suffering. In the
midst of the agony of a headache which lasted three days, accompanied
by violent nausea, I was possessed of most singular dialectical
clearness, and in absolutely cold blood I then thought out things, for
which, in my more healthy moments, I am not enough of a climber, not
sufficiently subtle, not sufficiently cold. My readers perhaps know
to what extent I consider dialectic a symptom of decadence, as, for
instance, in the most famous of all cases--the case of Socrates. All
the morbid disturbances of the intellect, even that semi-stupor which
accompanies fever, have, unto this day, remained completely unknown to
me; and for my first information concerning their nature and frequency,
I was obliged to have recourse to the learned works which have been
compiled on the subject. My circulation is slow. No one has ever been
able to detect fever in me. A doctor who treated me for some time as
a nerve patient finally declared: "No! there is nothing wrong with
your nerves, it is simply I who am nervous." It has been absolutely
impossible to ascertain any local degeneration in me, nor any organic
stomach trouble, however much I may have suffered from profound
weakness of the gastric system as the result of general exhaustion.
Even my eye trouble, which sometimes approached so parlously near
to blindness, was only an effect and not a cause; for, whenever my
general vital condition improved, my power of vision also increased.
Having admitted all this, do I need to say that I am experienced in
questions of decadence? I know them inside and out. Even that filigree
art of prehension and comprehension in general, that feeling for
delicate shades of difference, that psychology of "seeing through brick
walls," and whatever else I may be able to do, was first learnt then,
and is the specific gift of that period during which everything in
me was subtilised,--observation itself, together with all the organs
of observation. To look upon healthier concepts and values from the
standpoint of the sick, and conversely to look down upon the secret
work of the instincts of decadence from the standpoint of him who is
laden and self-reliant with the richness of life--this has been my
longest exercise, my principal experience. If in anything at all, it
was in this that I became a master. To-day my hand knows the trick, I
now have the knack of reversing perspectives: the first reason perhaps
why a _Transvaluation of all Values_ has been possible to me alone.



2


For, apart from the fact that I am a decadent, I am also the reverse of
such a creature. Among other things my proof of this is, that I always
instinctively select the proper remedy when my spiritual or bodily
health is low; whereas the decadent, as such, invariably chooses those
remedies which are bad for him. As a whole I was sound, but in certain
details I was a decadent. That energy with which I sentenced myself
to absolute solitude, and to a severance from all those conditions in
life to which I had grown accustomed; my discipline of myself, and my
refusal to allow myself to be pampered, to be tended hand and foot, and
to be doctored--all this betrays the absolute certainty of my instincts
respecting what at that time was most needful to me. I placed myself
in my own hands, I restored myself to health: the first condition of
success in such an undertaking, as every physiologist will admit, is
that at bottom a man should be sound. An intrinsically morbid nature
cannot become healthy. On the other hand, to an intrinsically sound
nature, illness may even constitute a powerful stimulus to life, to
a surplus of life. It is in this light that I now regard the long
period of illness that I endured: it seemed as if I had discovered
life afresh, my own self included. I tasted all good things and even
trifles in a way in which it was not easy for others to taste them--out
of my Will to Health and to Life I made my philosophy.... For this
should be thoroughly understood; it was during those years in which my
vitality reached its lowest point that I ceased from being a pessimist:
the instinct of self-recovery forbade my holding to a philosophy of
poverty and desperation. Now, by what signs are Nature's lucky strokes
recognised among men? They are recognised by the fact that any such
lucky stroke gladdens our senses; that he is carved from one integral
block, which is hard, sweet, and fragrant as well. He enjoys that only
which is good for him; his pleasure, his desire, ceases when the limits
of that which is good for him are overstepped. He divines remedies for
injuries; he knows how to turn serious accidents to his own advantage;
that which does not kill him makes him stronger. He instinctively
gathers his material from all he sees, hears, and experiences. He is a
selective principle; he rejects much. He is always in his own company,
whether his intercourse be with books, with men, or with natural
scenery; he honours the things he chooses, the things he acknowledges,
the things he trusts. He reacts slowly to all kinds of stimuli, with
that tardiness which long caution and deliberate pride have bred in
him--he tests the approaching stimulus; he would not dream of meeting
it half-way. He believes neither in "ill-luck" nor "guilt"; he can
digest himself and others; he knows how to forget--he is strong enough
to make everything turn to his own advantage.

Lo then! I am the very reverse of a decadent, for he whom I have just
described is none other than myself.



3


This double thread of experiences, this means of access to two worlds
that seem so far asunder, finds in every detail its counterpart in my
own nature--I am my own complement: I have a "second" sight, as well
as a first. And perhaps I also have a third sight. By the very nature
of my origin I was allowed an outlook beyond all merely local, merely
national and limited horizons; it required no effort on my part to be
a "good European." On the other hand, I am perhaps more German than
modern Germans--mere Imperial Germans--can hope to be,--I, the last
anti-political German. Be this as it may, my ancestors were Polish
noblemen: it is owing to them that I have so much race instinct in my
blood--who knows? perhaps even the _liberum veto_[1] When I think of
the number of times in my travels that I have been accosted as a Pole,
even by Poles themselves, and how seldom I have been taken for a German,
it seems to me as if I belonged to those only who have a sprinkling
of German in them. But my mother, Franziska Oehler, is at any rate
something very German; as is also my paternal grandmother, Erdmuthe
Krause. The latter spent the whole of her youth in good old Weimar,
not without coming into contact with Goethe's circle. Her brother,
Krause, the Professor of Theology in Königsberg, was called to the
post of General Superintendent at Weimar after Herder's death. It is
not unlikely that her mother, my great grandmother, is mentioned in
young Goethe's diary under the name of "Muthgen." She married twice,
and her second husband was Superintendent Nietzsche of Eilenburg.
In 1813, the year of the great war, when Napoleon with his general
staff entered Eilenburg on the 10th of October, she gave birth to a
son. As a daughter of Saxony she was a great admirer of Napoleon, and
maybe I am so still. My father, born in 1813, died in 1849. Previous
to taking over the pastorship of the parish of Röcken, not far from
Lützen, he lived for some years at the Castle of Altenburg, where he
had charge of the education of the four princesses. His pupils are the
Queen of Hanover, the Grand-Duchess Constantine, the Grand-Duchess of
Oldenburg, and the Princess Theresa of Saxe-Altenburg. He was full of
loyal respect for the Prussian King, Frederick William the Fourth, from
whom he obtained his living at Röcken; the events of 1848 saddened him
extremely. As I was born on the 15 th of October, the birthday of the
king above mentioned, I naturally received the Hohenzollern names of
Frederick William. There was at all events one advantage in the choice
of this day: my birthday throughout the whole of my childhood was a day
of public rejoicing. I regard it as a great privilege to have had such
a father: it even seems to me that this embraces all that I can claim
in the matter of privileges--life, the great yea to life, excepted.
What I owe to him above all is this, that I do not need any special
intention, but merely a little patience, in order involuntarily to
enter a world of higher and more delicate things. There I am at home,
there alone does my inmost passion become free. The fact that I had
to pay for this privilege almost with my life, certainly does not
make it a bad bargain. In order to understand even a little of _my
Zarathustra,_ perhaps a man must be situated and constituted very much
as I am myself--with one foot beyond the realm of the living.



4


I have never understood the art of arousing ill-feeling against
myself,--this is also something for which I have to thank my
incomparable father,--even when it seemed to me highly desirable
to do so. However un-Christian it may seem, I do not even bear any
ill-feeling towards myself. Turn my life about as you may, you will
find but seldom--perhaps indeed only once--any trace of some one's
having shown me ill-will. You might perhaps discover, however, too
many traces of _goodwill...._ My experiences even with those on whom
every other man has burnt his fingers, speak without exception in their
favour; I tame every bear, I can make even clowns behave decently.
During the seven years in which I taught Greek to the sixth form of
the College at Bâle, I never had occasion to administer a punishment;
the laziest youths were diligent in my class. The unexpected has
always found me equal to it; I must be unprepared in order to keep my
self-command. Whatever the instrument was, even if it were as out of
tune as the instrument "man" can possibly be,--it was only when I was
ill that I could not succeed in making it express something that was
worth hearing. And how often have I not been told by the "instruments"
themselves, that they had never before heard their voices express such
beautiful things.... This was said to me most delightfully perhaps by
that young fellow Heinrich von Stein, who died at such an unpardonably
early age, and who, after having considerately asked leave to do
so, once appeared in Sils-Maria for a three days' sojourn, telling
everybody there that it was _not_ for the Engadine that he had come.
This excellent person, who with all the impetuous simplicity of a
young Prussian nobleman, had waded deep into the swamp of Wagnerism
(and into that of Dübringism[2] into the bargain!), seemed almost
transformed during these three days by a hurricane of freedom, like one
who has been suddenly raised to his full height and given wings. Again
and again I said to him that this was all owing to the splendid air;
everybody felt the same,--one could not stand 6000 feet above Bayreuth
for nothing,--but he would not believe me.... Be this as it may, if
I have been the victim of many a small or even great offence, it was
not "will," and least of all ill-will that actuated the offenders; but
rather, as I have already suggested, it was goodwill, the cause of no
small amount of mischief in f my life, about which I had to complain.
_My_ experience gave me a right to feel suspicious in regard to all
so-called "unselfish" instincts, in regard to the whole of "neighbourly
love" which is ever ready and waiting with deeds or with advice. To
me it seems that these instincts are a sign of weakness, they are an
example of the inability to withstand a stimulus--it is only among
decadents that this _pity_ is called a virtue. What I reproach the
pitiful with is, that they are too ready to forget shame, reverence,
and the delicacy of feeling which knows how to keep at a distance; they
do not remember that this gushing pity stinks of the mob, and that it
is next of kin to bad manners--that pitiful hands may be thrust with
results fatally destructive into a great destiny, into a lonely and
wounded retirement, and into the privileges with which great guilt
endows one. The overcoming of pity I reckon among the noble virtues;
In the "Temptation of Zarathustra" I have imagined a case, in which a
great cry of distress reaches his ears, in which pity swoops down upon
him like a last sin, and would make him break faith with himself. To
remain one's own master in such circumstances, to keep the sublimity
of one's mission pure in such cases,--pure from the many ignoble and
more short-sighted impulses which come into play in so-called unselfish
actions,--this is the rub, the last test perhaps which a Zarathustra
has to undergo--the actual proof of his power.



5


In yet another respect I am no more than my father over again, and as
it were the continuation of his life after an all-too-early death.
Like every man who has never been able to meet his equal, and unto
whom the concept "retaliation" is just as incomprehensible as the
notion of "equal rights," I have forbidden myself the use of any sort
of measure of security or protection--and also, of course, of defence
and "justification"--in all cases in which I have been made the victim
either of trifling or even _very great_ foolishness. My form of
retaliation consists in this: as soon as possible to set a piece of
cleverness at the heels of an act of stupidity; by this means perhaps
it may still be possible to overtake it. To speak in a parable: I
dispatch a pot of jam in order to get rid of a bitter experience....
Let anybody only give me offence, I shall "retaliate," he can be quite
sure of that: before long I discover an opportunity of expressing my
thanks to the "offender" (among other things even for the offence)--or
of _asking_ him for something, which can be more courteous even than
giving. It also seems to me that the rudest word, the rudest letter,
is more good-natured, more straightforward, than silence. Those--who
keep silent are almost always lacking in subtlety and refinement of
heart; silence is an objection, to swallow a grievance must necessarily
produce a bad temper--it even upsets the stomach. All silent people
are dyspeptic. You perceive that I should not like to see rudeness
undervalued; it is by far the most _humane_ form of contradiction, and,
in the midst of modern effeminacy, it is one of our first virtues; If
one is sufficiently rich for it, it may even be a joy to be wrong. If
a god were to descend to this earth, he would have to do nothing but
wrong--to take _guilt_ not punishment, on one's shoulders, is the first
proof of divinity.



6


Freedom from resentment and the understanding of the nature of
resentment--who knows how very much after all I am indebted to my long
illness for these two things? The problem is not exactly simple: a
man must have experienced both through his strength and through his
weakness, If illness and weakness are to be charged with anything at
all, it is with the fact that when they prevail, the very instinct of
recovery, which is the instinct of defence and of war in man, becomes
decayed. He knows not how to get rid of anything, how to come to
terms with anything, and how to cast anything behind him. Everything
wounds him. People and things draw importunately near, all experiences
strike deep, memory is a gathering wound. To be ill is a sort of
resentment in itself. Against this resentment the invalid has only
one great remedy--I call it _Russian fatalism,_ that fatalism which
is free from revolt, and with which the Russian soldier, to whom a
campaign proves unbearable, ultimately lays himself down in the snow.
To accept nothing more, to undertake nothing more, to absorb nothing
more--to cease entirely from reacting.... The tremendous sagacity
of this fatalism, which does not always imply merely the courage for
death, but which in the most dangerous cases may actually constitute
a self-preservative measure, amounts to a reduction of activity in
the vital functions, the slackening down of which is like a sort of
will to hibernate. A few steps farther in this direction we find the
fakir, who will sleep for weeks in a tomb.... Owing to the fact that
one would be used up too quickly if one reacted, one no longer reacts
at all: this is the principle. And nothing on earth consumes a man
more quickly than the passion of resentment. Mortification, morbid
susceptibility, the inability to wreak revenge, the desire and thirst
for revenge, the concoction of every sort of poison--this is surely the
most injurious manner of reacting which could possibly be conceived by
exhausted men. It involves a rapid wasting away of nervous energy, an
abnormal increase of detrimental secretions, as, for instance, that
of bile into the stomach. To the sick man resentment ought to be more
strictly forbidden than anything else--it is _his_ special danger:
unfortunately, however, it is also his most natural propensity. This
was fully grasped by that profound physiologist Buddha. His "religion,"
which it would be better to call a system of hygiene, in order to avoid
confounding it with a creed so wretched as Christianity, depended
for its effect upon the triumph over resentment: to make the soul
free therefrom was considered the first step towards recovery. "Not
through hostility is hostility put to flight; through friendship does
hostility end": this stands at the beginning of Buddha's teaching--this
is not a precept of morality, but of physiology. Resentment born of
weakness is not more deleterious to anybody than it is to the weak
man himself--conversely, in the case of that man whose nature is
fundamentally a rich one, resentment is a superfluous feeling, a
feeling to remain master of which is almost a proof of riches. Those
of my readers who know the earnestness-with which my philosophy wages
war against the feelings of revenge and rancour, even to the extent of
attacking the doctrine of "free will" (my conflict with Christianity
is only a particular instance of it), will understand why I wish to
focus attention upon my own personal attitude and the certainty of
my practical instincts precisely in this matter. In my moments of
decadence I forbade myself the indulgence of the above feelings,
because they were harmful; as soon as my life recovered enough riches
and pride, however, I regarded them again as forbidden, but this time
because they were _beneath_ me. That "Russian fatalism" of which I have
spoken manifested itself in me in such a way that for years I held
tenaciously to almost insufferable conditions, places, habitations,
and companions, once chance had placed them on my path--it was better
than changing them, than feeling that they could be changed, than
revolting against them.... He who stirred me from this fatalism, he
who violently tried to shake me into consciousness, seemed to me then
a mortal enemy--in point of fact, there was danger of death each time
this was done. To regard one's self as a destiny, not to wish one's
self "different"--this, in such circumstances, is sagacity, itself.



7


War, on the other hand, is something different. At heart I am a
warrior. Attacking belongs to my instincts. To _be able to be_ an
enemy, to _be_ an enemy--maybe these things presuppose a strong nature;
in any case all strong natures involve these things. Such natures need
resistance, consequently they go in search of obstacles: the pathos of
aggression belongs of necessity to strength as much as the feelings
of revenge and of rancour belong to weakness. Woman, for instance, is
revengeful; her weakness involves this passion, just as it involves
her susceptibility in the presence of other people's suffering. The
strength of the aggressor can be measured by the opposition which
he needs; every increase of growth betrays itself by a seeking out
of more formidable opponents--or problems: for a philosopher who
is combative challenges even problems to a duel. The task is not
to overcome opponents in general, but only those opponents against
whom one has to summon all one's strength, one's skill, and one's
swordsmanship--in fact, opponents who are one's equals.... To be one's
enemy's equal--this is the first condition of an honourable duel. Where
one despises, one cannot wage war. Where one commands, where one sees
something _beneath_ one, one _ought_ not to wage war. My war tactics
can be reduced to four principles A First, I attack only things that
are triumphant--if necessary I wait until they become triumphant.
Secondly, I attack only those things against which I find no allies,
against which I stand alone--against which I compromise nobody but
myself.... I have not yet taken one single step before the public eye,
which did not compromise me: that is _my_ criterion of a proper mode
of action. Thirdly, I never make personal attacks--I use a personality
merely as a magnifying-glass, by means of which I render a general,
but elusive and scarcely noticeable evil, more apparent. In this way I
attacked David Strauss, or rather the success given to a senile book by
the cultured classes of Germany--by this means I caught German culture
red-handed. In this way I attacked Wagner, or rather the falsity or
mongrel instincts of our "culture" which confounds the super-refined
with the strong, and the effete with the great. Fourthly, I attack
only those things from which all personal differences are excluded, in
which any such thing as a background of disagreeable experiences is
lacking. On the contrary, attacking is to me a proof of goodwill and,
in certain circumstances, of gratitude. By means of it, I do honour to
a thing, I distinguish a thing; whether I associate my name with that
of an institution or a person, by being _against_ or _for_ either,
is all the same to me. If I wage war against Christianity, I feel
justified in doing so, because in that quarter I have met with no fatal
experiences and difficulties--the most earnest Christians have always
been kindly disposed to me. I, personally, the most essential opponent
of Christianity, am far from holding the individual responsible for
what is the fatality of long ages.

May I be allowed to hazard a suggestion concerning one last trait
in my character, which in my intercourse with other men has led me
into some difficulties? I am gifted with a sense of cleanliness the
keenness of which is phenomenal; so much so, that I can ascertain
physiologically--that is to say, smell--the proximity, nay, the inmost
core, the "entrails" of every human soul.... This sensitiveness of mine
is furnished with psychological antennæ, wherewith I feel and grasp
every secret: the quality of concealed filth lying at the base of many
a human character which may be the inevitable outcome of base blood,
and which education may have veneered, is revealed to me at the first
glance. If my observation has been correct, such people, whom my sense
of cleanliness rejects, also become conscious, on their part, of the
cautiousness to which my loathing prompts me: and this does not make
them any more fragrant.... In keeping with a custom which I have long
observed,--pure habits and honesty towards myself are among the first
conditions of my existence, I would die in unclean surroundings,--I
swim, bathe, and splash about, as it were, incessantly in water, in
any kind of perfectly transparent and shining element. That is why
my relations with my fellows try my patience to no small extent; my
humanity does not consist in the fact that I understand the feelings
of my fellows, but that I can endure to understand.... My humanity
is a perpetual process of self-mastery. But I need solitude--that is
to say, recovery, return to myself, the breathing of free, crisp,
bracing air.... The whole of my _Zarathustra_ is a dithyramb in honour
of solitude, or, if I have been understood, in honour of purity. Thank
Heaven, it is not in honour of "pure foolery"![3] He who has an eye for
colour will call him a diamond. The loathing of mankind, of the rabble,
was always my greatest danger.... Would you hearken to the words spoken
by Zarathustra concerning deliverance from loathing?

"What forsooth hath come unto me? How did I deliver myself from
loathing? Who hath made mine eye younger? How did I soar to the height,
where there are no more rabble sitting about the well?

"Did my very loathing forge me wings and the strength to scent
fountains afar off? Verily to the loftiest heights did I need to fly,
to find once more the spring of joyfulness.

"Oh, I found it, my brethren! Up here, on the loftiest height, the
spring of joyfulness gusheth forth for me. And there is a life at the
well of which no rabble can drink with you.

"Almost too fiercely dost thou rush, for me, thou spring of joyfulness!
And ofttimes dost thou empty the pitcher again in trying to fill it.

"And yet must I learn to draw near thee more humbly. Far too eagerly
doth my heart jump to meet thee.

"My heart, whereon my summer burneth, my short, hot, melancholy,
over-blessed summer: how my summer heart yearneth for thy coolness!

"Farewell, the lingering affliction of my spring! Past is the
wickedness of my snowflakes in June! Summer have I become entirely, and
summer noontide!

"A summer in the loftiest heights, with cold springs and blessed
stillness: oh come, my friends, that the stillness may wax even more
blessed!

"For this is our height and our home: too high and steep is our
dwelling for all the unclean and their appetites.

"Do but cast your pure eyes into the well of my joyfulness, my friends!
How could it thus become muddy! It will laugh back at you with its
purity.

"On the tree called Future do we build our nest: eagles shall bring
food in their beaks unto us lonely ones!

"Verily not the food whereof the unclean might partake. They would
think they ate fire and would burn their mouths!

"Verily, no abodes for the unclean do we here hold in readiness! To
their bodies our happiness would seem an ice-cavern, and to their
spirits also!

"And like strong winds will we live above them, neighbours to the
eagles, companions of the snow, and playmates of the sun: thus do
strong winds live.

"And like a wind shall I one day blow amidst them, and take away their
soul's breath with my spirit: thus my future willeth it.

"Verily, a strong wind is Zarathustra to all low lands; and this is
his counsel to his foes and to all those who spit and spew: 'Beware of
spitting against the wind!'"


[Footnote 1: The right which every Polish deputy, whether a great or an
inferior nobleman, possessed of forbidding the passing of any measure
by the Diet, was called in Poland the _liberum veto_ (in Polish _nie
pozwalam_), and brought all legislation to a standstill.--TR.]

[Footnote 2: Eugen Dübring is a philosopher and political economist
whose general doctrine might be characterised as a sort of abstract
Materialism with an optimistic colouring.--TR.]

[Footnote 3: This, of course, is a reference to Wagner's _Parsifal._
See my note on p. 96 of _The Will to Power_ vol. i.--TR.]




WHY I AM SO CLEVER



1


Why do I know more things than other people? Why, in fact, am I so
clever? I have never pondered over questions that are not questions. I
have never squandered my strength. Of actual religious difficulties,
for instance, I have no experience. I have never known what it is to
feel "sinful." In the same way I completely lack any reliable criterion
for ascertaining what constitutes a prick of conscience: from all
accounts a prick of conscience does not seem to be a very estimable
thing.... Once it was done I should hate to leave an action of mine
in the lurch; I should prefer completely to omit the evil outcome,
the consequences, from the problem concerning the value of an action.
In the face of evil consequences one is too ready to lose the proper
standpoint from which one's deed ought to be considered. A prick of
conscience strikes me as a sort of "evil eye." Something that has
failed should be honoured all the more jealously, precisely because
it has failed--this is much more in keeping with my morality.--"God,"
"the immortality of the soul," "salvation," a "beyond"--to all these
notions, even as a child, I never paid any attention whatsoever, nor
did I waste any time upon them,--maybe I was never _naif_ enough for
that?--I am quite unacquainted with atheism as a result, and still
less as an event in my life: in me it is inborn, instinctive. I am
too inquisitive, too incredulous, too high spirited, to be satisfied
with such a palpably clumsy solution of things. God is a too palpably
clumsy solution of things; a solution which shows a lack of delicacy
towards us thinkers--at bottom He is really no more than a coarse
and rude _prohibition_ of us: ye shall not think!... I am much more
interested in another question,--a question upon which the "salvation
of humanity" depends to a far greater degree than it does upon any
piece of theological curiosity: I refer to nutrition. For ordinary
purposes, it may be formulated as follows: "How precisely must _thou_
feed thyself in order to attain to thy maximum of power, or _virtù_
in the Renaissance style,--of virtue free from moralic acid?" My
experiences in regard to this matter have been as bad as they possibly
could be; I am surprised that I set myself this question so late in
life, and that it took me so long to draw "rational" conclusions
from my experiences. Only the absolute worth-_1_ lessness of German
culture--its "idealism"--can to some extent explain how it was that
precisely in this matter I was so backward that my ignorance was almost
saintly. This "culture," which from first to last teaches one to lose
sight of actual things and to hunt after thoroughly problematic and
so-called ideal aims, as, for instance, "classical culture"--as if it
were not hopeless from the start to try to unite "classical" and
"German" in one concept. It is even a little comical--try and imagine
a "classically cultured" citizen of Leipzig!--Indeed, I can say, that
up to a very mature age, my food was entirely bad--expressed morally,
it was "impersonal," "selfless," "altruistic," to the glory of cooks
and all other fellow-Christians. It was through the cooking in vogue
at Leipzig, for instance, together with my first study of Schopenhauer
(1865), that I earnestly renounced my "Will to Live." To spoil one's
stomach by absorbing insufficient nourishment--this problem seemed to
my mind solved with admirable felicity by the above-mentioned cookery.
(It is said that in the year 1866 changes were introduced into this
department.) But as to German cookery in general--what has it not got
on its conscience! Soup _before_ the meal (still called _alla tedesca_
in the Venetian cookery books of the sixteenth century); meat boiled
to shreds, vegetables cooked with fat and flour; the degeneration of
pastries into paper-weights! And, if you add thereto the absolutely
bestial post-prandial drinking habits of the _ancients,_ and not alone
of the ancient Germans, you will understand where German intellect
took its origin--that is to say, in sadly disordered intestines....
German intellect is indigestion; it can assimilate nothing. But even
English diet, which in comparison with German, and indeed with French
alimentation, seems to me to constitute a "return to Nature,"--that is
to say, to cannibalism,--is profoundly opposed to my own instincts. It
seems to me to give the intellect heavy feet, in fact, Englishwomen's
feet.... The best cooking is that of Piedmont. Alcoholic drinks do
not agree with me; a single glass of wine or beer a day is amply
sufficient to turn life into a valley of tears for me;--in Munich live
my antipodes. Although I admit that this knowledge came to me somewhat
late, it already formed part of my experience even as a child. As a boy
I believed that the drinking of wine and the smoking of tobacco were at
first but the vanities of youths, and later merely bad habits. Maybe
the poor wine of Naumburg was partly responsible for this poor opinion
of wine in general. In order to believe that wine was exhilarating, I
should have had to be a Christian--in other words, I should have had to
believe in what, to my mind, is an absurdity. Strange to say, whereas
small quantities of alcohol, taken with plenty of water, succeed in
making me feel out of sorts, large quantities turn me almost into a
rollicking tar. Even as a boy I showed my bravado in this respect. To
compose a long Latin essay in one night, to revise and recopy it, to
aspire with my pen to emulating the exactitude and the terseness of my
model, Sallust, and to pour a few very strong grogs over it all--this
mode of procedure, while I was a pupil at the venerable old school of
Pforta, was not in the least out of keeping with my physiology, nor
perhaps with that of Sallust, however much it may have been alien to
dignified Pforta. Later on, towards the middle of my life, I grew more
and more opposed to alcoholic drinks: I, an opponent of vegetarianism,
who have experienced what vegetarianism is,--just as Wagner, who
converted me back to meat, experienced it,--cannot with sufficient
earnestness advise all more _spiritual_ natures to abstain absolutely
from alcohol. Water answers the purpose.... I have a predilection in
favour of those places where in all directions one has opportunities
of drinking from running brooks (Nice, Turin, Sils). _In vino Veritas_:
it seems that here once more I am at variance with the rest of the
world about the concept "Truth"--with me spirit moves on the face of
the waters.... Here are a few more indications as to my morality. A
heavy meal is digested more easily than an inadequate one. The first
principle of a good digestion is that the stomach should become active
as a whole. A man ought, therefore, to know the size of his stomach.
For the same reasons all those interminable meals, which I call
interrupted sacrificial feasts, and which are to be had at any table
d'hôte, are strongly to be deprecated. Nothing should be eaten between
meals, coffee should be given up--coffee makes one gloomy. Tea is
beneficial only in the morning. It should be taken in small quantities,
but very strong. It may be very harmful, and indispose you for the
whole day, if it be taken the least bit too weak. Everybody has his own
standard in this matter, often between the narrowest and most delicate
limits. In an enervating climate tea is not a good beverage with which
to start the day: an hour before taking it an excellent thing is to
drink a cup of thick cocoa, feed from oil. Remain seated as little as
possible, put no trust in any thought that is not born in the open, to
the accompaniment of free bodily motion--nor in one in which even the
muscles do not celebrate a feast. All prejudices take their origin in
the intestines. A sedentary life, as I have already said elsewhere, is
the real sin against the Holy Spirit.



2.


To the question of nutrition, that of locality and climate is next of
kin. Nobody is so constituted as to be able to live everywhere and
anywhere; and he who has great duties to perform, which lay claim
to all his strength, has, in this respect, a very limited choice.
The influence of climate upon the bodily functions, affecting their
acceleration or retardation, extends so far, that a blunder in the
choice of locality and climate is able not only to alienate a man from
his actual duty, but also to withhold it from him altogether, so that
he never even comes face to face with it. Animal vigour never acquires
enough strength in him in order to reach that pitch of artistic freedom
which makes his own soul whisper to him: I, alone, can do that.... Ever
so slight a tendency to laziness in the intestines, once it has become
a habit, is quite sufficient to make something mediocre, something
"German" out of a genius; the climate of Germany, alone, is enough to
discourage the strongest and most heroically disposed intestines. The
tempo of the body's functions is closely bound up with the agility or
the clumsiness of the spirit's feet; spirit itself is indeed only a
form of these organic functions. Let anybody make a list of the places
in which men of great intellect have been found, and are still found;
where wit, subtlety, and malice constitute happiness; where genius
is almost necessarily at home: all of them rejoice in exceptionally
dry air. Paris, Provence, Florence, Jerusalem, Athens--these names
prove something, namely: that genius is conditioned by dry air, by a
pure sky--that is to say, by rapid organic functions, by the constant
and ever-present possibility of procuring for one's self great and
even enormous quantities of strength. I have a certain case in mind
in which a man of remarkable intellect and independent spirit became
a narrow, craven specialist and a grumpy old crank, simply owing to
a lack of subtlety in his instinct for climate. And I myself might
have been an example of the same thing, if illness had not compelled
me to reason, and to reflect upon reason realistically. Now that I
have learnt through long practice to read the effects of climatic and
meteorological influences, from my own body, as though from a very
delicate and reliable instrument, and that I am able to calculate the
change in degrees of atmospheric moisture by means of physiological
observations upon myself, even on so short a journey as that from
Turin to Milan; I think with horror of the ghastly fact that my
whole life, until the last ten years,--the most perilous years,--has
always been spent in the wrong, and what to me ought to have been
the most forbidden, places. Naumburg, Pforta, Thuringia in general,
Leipzig, Bâle, Venice--so many ill-starred places for a constitution
like mine. If I cannot recall one single happy reminiscence of my
childhood and youth, it is nonsense to suppose that so-called "moral"
causes could account for this--as, for instance, the incontestable
fact that I lacked companions that could have satisfied me; for this
fact is the same to-day as it ever was, and it does not prevent me
from being cheerful and brave. But it was ignorance in physiological
matters--that confounded "Idealism"--that was the real curse of my
life. This was the superfluous and foolish element in my existence;
something from which nothing could spring, and for which there can be
no settlement and no compensation. As the outcome of this "Idealism"
I regard all the blunders, the great aberrations of instinct, and
the "modest specialisations" which drew me aside from the task of my
life; as, for instance, the fact that I became a philologist--why
not at least a medical man or anything else which might have opened
my eyes? My days at Bâle, the whole of my intellectual routine,
including my daily time-table, was an absolutely senseless abuse of
extraordinary powers, without the slightest compensation for the
strength that I spent, without even a thought of what I was squandering
and how its place might be filled. I lacked all subtlety in egoism,
all the fostering care of an imperative instinct; I was in a state
in which one is ready to regard one's self as anybody's equal, a
state of "disinterestedness," a forgetting of one's distance from
others--something, in short, for which I can never forgive myself.
When I had well-nigh reached the end of my tether, simply because I
had almost reached my end, I began to reflect upon the fundamental
absurdity of my life--"Idealism." It was _illness_ that first brought
me to reason.



3


After the choice of nutrition, the choice of climate and locality, the
third matter concerning which one must not on any account make a
blunder, is the choice of the manner in which one _recuperates one's
strength._ Here, again, according to the extent to which a spirit is
_sui generis,_ the limits of that which he can allow himself--in other
words, the limits of that which is beneficial to him--become more and
more confined. As far as I in particular am concerned, _reading_ in
general belongs to my means of recuperation; consequently it belongs
to that which rids me of myself, to that which enables me to wander
in strange sciences and strange souls--to that, in fact, about which
I am no longer in earnest. Indeed, it is while reading that I recover
from _my_ earnestness. During the time that I am deeply absorbed in
my work, no books are found within my reach; it would never occur
to me to allow any one to speak or even to think in my presence.
For that is what reading would mean.... Has any one ever actually
noticed, that, during the period of profound tension to which the
state of pregnancy condemns not only the mind, but also, at bottom,
the whole organism, accident and every kind of external stimulus acts
too acutely and strikes too deep? Accident and external stimuli must,
as far as possible, be avoided: a sort of walling-of-one's-self-in is
one of the primary instinctive precautions of spiritual pregnancy.
Shall I allow a strange thought to steal secretly over the wall?
For that is what reading would mean.... The periods of work and
fruit-fulness are followed by periods of recuperation: come hither,
ye delightful, intellectual, intelligent books! Shall I read German
books?... I must go back six months to catch myself with a book in
my hand. What was it? An excellent study by Victor Brochard upon the
Greek sceptics, in which my Laertiana[1] was used to advantage. The
sceptics!--the only _honourable_ types among that double-faced and
sometimes quintuple-faced throng, the philosophers!.... Otherwise I
almost always take refuge in the same books: altogether their number
is small; they are books which are precisely my proper fare. It is
not perhaps in my nature to read much, and of all sorts: a library
makes me ill. Neither is it my nature to love much or many kinds of
things. Suspicion or even hostility towards new books is much more
akin to my instinctive feeling than "toleration," _largeur de cœur,_
and other forms of "neighbour-love." ... It is to a small number of
old French authors, that I always return again and again; I believe
only in French culture, and regard everything else in Europe which
calls itself "culture" as a misunderstanding. I do not even take
the German kind into consideration.... The few instances of higher
culture with which I have met in Germany were all French in their
origin. The most striking example of this was Madame Cosima Wagner,
by far the most decisive voice in matters of taste that I have ever
heard. If I do not read, but literally love Pascal? as the most
instinctive sacrifice to Christianity, killing himself inch by inch,
first bodily, then spiritually, according to the terrible consistency
of this most appalling form of inhuman cruelty; if I have something
of Montaigne's mischievousness in my soul, and--who knows?--perhaps
also in my body; if my artist's taste endeavours to defend the names
of Molière, Corneille, and Racine, and not without bitterness, against
such a wild genius as Shakespeare--all this does not prevent me from
regarding even the latter-day Frenchmen also as charming companions.
I can think of absolutely no century in history, in which a netful of
more inquisitive and at the same time more subtle psychologists could
be drawn up together than in the Paris of the present day. Let me
mention a few at random--for their number is by no means small--Paul
Bourget, Pierre Loti, Gyp, Meilhac, Anatole France, Jules Lemaitre;
or, to point to one of strong race, a genuine Latin, of whom I am
particularly fond, Guy de Maupassant. Between ourselves, I prefer this
generation even to its masters, all of whom were corrupted by German
philosophy (Taine, for instance, by Hegel, whom he has to thank for
his misunderstanding of great men and great periods). Wherever Germany
extends her sway, she _ruins_ culture. It was the war which first saved
the spirit of France.... Stendhal is one of the happiest accidents of
my life--for everything that marks an epoch in it has been brought
to me by accident and never by means of a recommendation. He is quite
priceless, with his psychologist's eye, quick at forestalling and
anticipating; with his grasp of facts, which is reminiscent of the same
art in the greatest of all masters of facts (_ex ungue Napoleonem_);
and, last but not least, as an honest atheist--a specimen which is
both rare and difficult to discover in France--all honour to Prosper
Mérimée!... Maybe that I am even envious of Stendhal? He robbed
me of the best atheistic joke, which I of all people could have
perpetrated: "God's only excuse is that He does not exist" ... I myself
have said somewhere--What has been the greatest objection to Life
hitherto?--God....



4


It was Heinrich Heine who gave me the most perfect idea of what a
lyrical poet could be. In vain do I search through all the kingdoms of
antiquity or of modern times for anything to resemble his sweet and
passionate music. He possessed that divine wickedness, without which
perfection itself becomes unthinkable to me,--I estimate the value of
men, of races, according to the extent to which they are unable to
conceive of a god who has not a dash of the satyr in him. And with
what mastery he wields his native tongue! One day it will be said of
Heine and me that we were by far the greatest artists of the German
language that have ever existed, and that we left all the efforts that
mere Germans made in this language an incalculable distance behind
us. I must be profoundly related to Byron's _Manfred:_ of all the
dark abysses in this work I found the counterparts in my own soul--at
the age of thirteen I was ripe for this book. Words fail me, I have
only a look, for those who dare to utter the name of _Faust_ in the
presence of _Manfred._ The Germans are _incapable_ of conceiving
anything sublime: for a proof of this, look at Schumann! Out of anger
for this mawkish Saxon, I once deliberately composed a counter-overture
to _Manfred,_ of which Hans von Bülow declared he had never seen the
like before on paper: such compositions amounted to a violation of
Euterpe. When I cast about me for my highest formula of Shakespeare,
I find invariably but this one: that he conceived the type of Cæsar.
Such things a man cannot guess--he either is the thing, or he is not.
The great poet draws his creations only from out of his own reality.
This is so to such an extent, that often after a lapse of time he
can no longer endure his own work.... After casting a glance between
the pages of my _Zarathustra,_ I pace my room to and fro for half
an hour at a time, unable to overcome an insufferable fit of tears.
I know of no more heartrending reading than Shakespeare: how a man
must have suffered to be so much in need of playing the clown! Is
Hamlet _understood_? It is not doubt, but certitude that drives one
mad.... But in order to feel this, one must be profound, one must be
an abyss, a philosopher.... We all fear the truth.... And, to make a
confession; I feel instinctively certain and convinced that Lord Bacon
is the originator, the self-torturer, of this most sinister kind of
literature: what do I care about the miserable gabble of American
muddlers and blockheads? But the power for the greatest realism in
vision is not only compatible with the greatest realism in deeds,
with the monstrous in deeds, with crime--_it actually presupposes the
latter._ ... We do not know half enough about Lord Bacon--the first
realist in all the highest acceptation of this word--to be sure of
everything he did, everything he willed, and everything he experienced
in his inmost soul.... Let the critics go to hell! Suppose I had
christened my _Zarathustra_ with a name not my own,--let us say with
Richard Wagner's name,--the acumen of two thousand years would not have
sufficed to guess that the author of _Human, all-too-Human_ was the
visionary of _Zarathustra._



5


As I am speaking here of the recreations of my life, I feel I must
express a word or two of gratitude for that which has refreshed me by
far the most heartily and most profoundly. This, without the slightest
doubt, was my intimate relationship with Richard Wagner. All my other
relationships with men I treat quite lightly; but I would not have the
days I spent at Tribschen--those days of confidence, of cheerfulness,
of sublime flashes, and of profound moments--blotted from my life
at any price. I know not what Wagner may have been for others; but
no cloud ever darkened _our_ sky. And this brings me back again to
France,--I have no arguments against Wagnerites, and _hoc genus omne_
who believe that they do honour to Wagner by believing him to be
like themselves; for such people I have only a contemptuous curl of
my lip. With a nature like mine, which is so strange to everything
Teutonic, that even the presence of a German retards my digestion, my
first meeting with Wagner was the first moment in my life in which I
breathed freely: I felt him, I honoured him, as a foreigner, as the
opposite and the incarnate contradiction of all "German virtues." We
who as children breathed the marshy atmosphere of the fifties, are
necessarily pessimists in regard to the concept "German"; we cannot
be anything else than revolutionaries--we can assent to no state of
affairs which allows the canting bigot to be at the top. I care not
a jot whether this canting bigot acts in different colours to-day,
whether he dresses in scarlet or dons the uniform of a hussar.[2] Very
well, then! Wagner was a revolutionary--he fled from the Germans....
As an artist, a man has no home in Europe save in Paris; that subtlety
of all the five senses which Wagner's art presupposes, those fingers
that can detect slight gradations, psychological morbidity--all these
things can be found only in Paris. Nowhere else can you meet with
this passion for questions of form, this earnestness in matters of
_mise-en-scène,_ which is the Parisian earnestness _par excellence._
In Germany no one has any idea of the tremendous ambition that fills
the heart of a Parisian artist. The German is a good fellow. Wagner was
by no means a good fellow.... But I have already said quite enough
on the subject of Wagner's real nature (see _Beyond Good and Evil,_
Aphorism 269), and about those to whom he is most closely related.
He is one of the late French romanticists, that high-soaring and
heaven-aspiring band of artists, like Delacroix and Berlioz, who in
their inmost nacres are sick and incurable, and who are all fanatics
of _expression,_ and virtuosos through and through.... Who, in sooth,
was the first intelligent follower of Wagner? Charles Baudelaire, the
very man who first understood Delacroix--that typical decadent, in whom
a whole generation of artists saw their reflection; he was perhaps the
last of them too.... What is it that I have never forgiven Wagner?
The fact that he condescended to the Germans--that he became a German
Imperialist.... Wherever Germany spreads, she _ruins_ culture.



6


Taking everything into consideration, I could never have survived my
youth without Wagnerian music. For I was condemned to the society
of Germans. If a man wish to get rid of a feeling of insufferable
oppression, he has to take to hashish. Well, I had to take to Wagner.
Wagner is the counter-poison to everything essentially German--the fact
that he is a poison too, I do not deny. From the moment that _Tristan_
was arranged for the piano--all honour to you, Herr von Bülow!--I was
a Wagnerite. Wagner's previous works seemed beneath me--they were too
commonplace, too "German." ... But to this day I am still seeking for a
work which would be a match to _Tristan_ in dangerous fascination, and
possess the same gruesome and dulcet quality of infinity; I seek among
all the arts in vain. All the quaint features of Leonardo da Vinci's
work lose their charm at the sound of the first bar in _Tristan._
This work is without question Wagner's _non plus ultra_; after its
creation, the composition of the _Mastersingers_ and of the _Ring_ was
a relaxation to him. To become more healthy--this in a nature like
Wagner's amounts to going backwards. The curiosity of the psychologist
is so great in me, that I regard it as quite a special privilege
to have lived at the right time, and to have lived precisely among
Germans, in order to be ripe for this work. The world must indeed be
empty for him who has never been unhealthy enough for this "infernal
voluptuousness": it is allowable, it is even imperative, to employ a
mystic formula for this purpose. I suppose I know better than any one
the prodigious feats of which Wagner was capable, the fifty worlds of
strange ecstasies to which no one else had wings to soar; and as I am
alive to-day and strong enough to turn even the most suspicious and
most dangerous things to my own advantage, and thus to grow stronger,
I declare Wagner to have been the greatest benefactor of my life. The
bond which unites us is the fact that we have suffered greater agony,
even at each other's hands, than most men are able to bear nowadays,
and this will always keep our names associated in the minds of men.
For, just as Wagner is merely a misunderstanding among Germans, so, in
truth, am I, and ever will be. Ye lack two centuries of psychological
and artistic discipline, my dear countrymen!... But ye can never
recover the time lost.



7


To the most exceptional of my readers I should like to say just one
word about what I really exact from music. It must be cheerful and yet
profound, like an October afternoon. It must be original, exuberant,
and tender, and like a dainty, soft woman in roguishness and grace ... I
shall never admit that a German _can_ understand what music is. Those
musicians who are called German, the greatest and most famous foremost,
are all foreigners, either Slavs, Croats, Italians, Dutchmen--or Jews;
or else, like Heinrich Schütz, Bach, and Händel, they are Germans of
a strong race which is now extinct. For my own part, I have still
enough of the Pole left in me to let all other music go, if only I
can keep Chopin. For three reasons I would except Wagner's _Siegfried
Idyll,_ and perhaps also one or two things of Liszt, who excelled all
other musicians in the noble tone of his orchestration; and finally
everything that has been produced beyond the Alps_--this side_ of the
Alps.[3] I could not possibly dispense with Rossini, and still less
with my Southern soul in music, the work of my Venetian maestro, Pietro
Gasti. And when I say beyond the Alps, all I really mean is Venice.
If I try to find a new word for music, I can never find any other
than Venice. I know not how to draw any distinction between tears
and music. I do not know how to think either of joy, or of the south,
without a shudder of fear.

On the bridge I stood
Lately, in gloomy night.
Came a distant song:
In golden drops it rolled
Over the glittering rim away.
Music, gondolas, lights--
Drunk, swam far forth in the gloom....

A stringed instrument, my soul,
Sang, imperceptibly moved,
A gondola song by stealth,
Gleaming for gaudy blessedness.
--Hearkened any thereto?



8


In all these things--in the choice of food, place, climate, and
recreation--the instinct of self-preservation is dominant, and this
instinct manifests itself with least ambiguity when it acts as an
instinct of defence. To close one's eyes to much, to seal one's ears to
much, to keep certain things at a distance--this is the first principle
of prudence, the first proof of the fact that a man is not an accident
but a necessity. The popular word for this instinct of defence is
_taste._ A man's imperative command is not only to say "no" in cases
where "yes" would be a sign of "disinterestedness," but also to say
"no" _as seldom as possible._ One must part with all that which compels
one to repeat "no," with ever greater frequency. The rationale of this
principle is that all discharges of defensive forces, however slight
they may be, involve enormous and absolutely superfluous losses when
they become regular and habitual. Our greatest expenditure of strength
is made up of those small and most frequent discharges of it. The act
of keeping things off, of holding them at a distance, amounts to a
discharge of strength,--do not deceive yourselves on this point!--and
an expenditure of energy directed at purely negative ends. Simply by
being compelled to keep constantly on his guard, a man may grow so weak
as to be unable any longer to defend himself. Suppose I were to step
out of my house, and, instead of the quiet and aristocratic city of
Turin, I were to find a German provincial town, my instinct would have
to brace itself together in order to repel all that which would pour in
upon it from this crushed-down and cowardly world. Or suppose I were
to find a large German city--that structure of vice in which nothing
grows, but where every single thing, whether good or bad, is squeezed
in from outside. In such circumstances should I not be compelled to
become a hedgehog? But to have prickles amounts to a squandering of
strength; they even constitute a twofold luxury, when, if we only chose
to do so, we could dispense with them and open our hands instead....

Another form of prudence and self-defence consists in trying to
react as seldom as possible, and to keep one's self aloof from those
circumstances and conditions wherein one would be condemned, as it
were, to suspend one's "liberty" and one's initiative, and become a
mere reacting medium. As an example of this I point to the intercourse
with books. The scholar who, in sooth, does little else than handle
books--with the philologist of average attainments their number may
amount to two hundred a day--ultimately forgets entirely and completely
the capacity of thinking for himself. When he has not a book between
his fingers he cannot think. When he thinks, he responds to a stimulus
(a thought he has read),--finally all he does is to react. The scholar
exhausts his whole strength in saying either "yes" or "no" to matter
which has already been thought out, or in criticising it--he is no
longer capable of thought on his own account.... In him the instinct
of self-defence has decayed, otherwise he would defend himself against
books. The scholar is a decadent. With my own eyes I have seen gifted,
richly endowed, and free-spirited natures already "read to ruins" at
thirty, and mere wax vestas that have to be rubbed before they can give
off any sparks--or "thoughts." To set to early in the morning, at the
break of day, in all the fulness and dawn of one's strength, and to
read a book--this I call positively vicious!



9


At this point I can no longer evade a direct answer to the question,
_how one becomes what one is._ And in giving it, I shall have to
touch upon that masterpiece in the art of self-preservation, which is
_selfishness._ ... Granting that one's life-task--the determination and
the fate of one's life-task--greatly exceeds the average measure of
such things, nothing more dangerous could be conceived than to come
face to face with one's self by the side of this life-task. The fact
that one becomes what one is, presupposes that one has not the remotest
suspicion of what one is. From this standpoint even the blunders of
one's life have their own meaning and value, the temporary deviations
and aberrations, the moments of hesitation and of modesty, the
earnestness wasted upon duties which lie outside the actual life-task.
In these matters great wisdom, perhaps even the highest wisdom, comes
into activity: in these circumstances, in which _nosce teipsum_ would
be the sure road to ruin, forgetting one's self, misunderstanding
one's self, belittling one's self, narrowing one's self, and making
one's self mediocre, amount to reason itself. Expressed morally, to
love one's neighbour and to live for others and for other things
_may_ be the means of protection employed to maintain the hardest
kind of egoism. This is the exceptional case in which I, contrary
to my principle and conviction, take the side of the altruistic
instincts; for here they are concerned in subserving selfishness
and self-discipline. The whole surface of consciousness--for
consciousness _is_ a surface--must be kept free from any one of the
great imperatives. Beware even of every striking word, of every
striking attitude! They are all so many risks which the instinct runs
of "understanding itself" too soon. Meanwhile the organising "idea,"
which is destined to become master, grows and continues to grow into
the depths,--it begins to command, it leads you slowly back from your
deviations and aberrations, it prepares individual qualities and
capacities, which one day will make themselves felt as indispensable
to the whole of your task,--step by step it cultivates all the
serviceable faculties, before it ever whispers a word concerning the
dominant task, the "goal," the "object," and the "meaning" of it all.
Looked at from this standpoint my life is simply amazing. For the task
of _transvaluing values,_ more capacities were needful perhaps than
could well be found side by side in one individual; and above all,
antagonistic capacities which had to be free from the mutual strife
and destruction which they involve. An order of rank among capacities;
distance; the art of separating without creating hostility; to refrain
from confounding things; to keep from reconciling things; to possess
enormous multifariousness and yet to be the reverse of chaos--all
this was the first condition, the long secret work, and the artistic
mastery of my instinct. Its superior guardianship manifested itself
with such exceeding strength, that not once did I ever dream of what
was growing within me--until suddenly all my capacities were ripe, and
one day burst forth in all the perfection of their highest bloom. I
cannot remember ever having exerted myself, I can point to no trace of
_struggle_ in my life; I am the reverse of a heroic nature. To "will"
something, to "strive" after something, to have an "aim" or a "desire"
in my mind--I know none of these things from experience. Even at this
moment I look out upon my future--a _broad_ future!--as upon a calm
sea: no sigh of longing makes a ripple on its surface. I have not the
slightest wish that anything should be otherwise than it is: I myself
would not be otherwise.... But in this matter I have always been the
same. I have never had a desire. A man who, after his four-and-fortieth
year, can say that he has never bothered himself about _honours,
women,_ or _money_!--not that they did not come his way.... It was
thus that I became one day a University Professor--I had never had
the remotest idea of such a thing; for I was scarcely four-and-twenty
years of age. In the same way, two years previously, I had one day
become a philologist, in the sense that my _first_ philological work,
my start in every way, was expressly obtained by my master Ritschl for
publication in his _Rheinisches Museum._[4] (Ritschl--and I say it
in all reverence--was the only genial scholar that I have ever met.
He possessed that pleasant kind of depravity which distinguishes us
Thuringians, and which makes even a German sympathetic--even in the
pursuit of truth we prefer to avail ourselves of roundabout ways. In
saying this I do not mean to underestimate in any way my Thuringian
brother, the intelligent Leopold von Ranke....)



10


You may be wondering why I should actually have related all these
trivial and, according to traditional accounts, insignificant details
to you; such action can but tell against me, more particularly if I
am fated to figure in great causes. To this I reply that these trivial
matters--diet, locality, climate, and one's mode of recreation, the
whole casuistry of; self-love--are inconceivably more important than,
all that which has hitherto been held in high esteem! It is precisely
in this quarter that we must begin to learn afresh. All those things
which mankind has valued with such earnestness heretofore are not even
real; they are mere creations of fancy, or, more strictly speaking,
_lies_ born of the evil instincts of diseased and, in the deepest
sense, noxious natures--all the concepts, "God," "soul," "virtue,"
"sin," "Beyond," "truth," "eternal life." ... But the greatness of
human nature, its "divinity," was sought for in them.... All questions
of politics, of social order, of education, have been falsified, root
and branch, owing to the fact that the most noxious men have been
taken for great men, and that people were taught to despise the small
things, or rather the fundamental things, of life. If I now choose to
compare myself with those creatures who have hitherto been honoured as
the first among men, the difference becomes obvious. I do not reckon
the so-called "first" men even as human beings--for me they are the
excrements of mankind, the products of disease and of the instinct
of revenge: they are so many monsters laden with rottenness, so many
hopeless incurables, who avenge themselves on life.... I wish to be
the opposite of these people: it is my privilege to have the very
sharpest discernment for every sign of healthy instincts. There is no
such thing as a morbid trait in me; even in times of serious illness
I have never grown morbid, and you might seek in vain for a trace of
fanaticism in my nature. No one can point to any moment of my life
in which I have assumed either an arrogant or a pathetic attitude.
Pathetic attitudes are not in keeping with greatness; he who needs
attitudes is false.... Beware of all picturesque men! Life was easy--in
fact easiest--to me, in those periods when it exacted the heaviest
duties from me. Whoever could have seen me during the seventy days of
this autumn, when, without interruption, I did a host of things of
the highest rank--things that no man can do nowadays--with a sense of
responsibility for all the ages yet to come, would have noticed no sign
of tension in my condition, but rather a state of overflowing freshness
and good cheer. Never have I eaten with more pleasant sensations,
never has my sleep been better. I know of no other manner of dealing
with great tasks, than as _play_: this, as a sign of greatness, is
an essential prerequisite. The slightest constraint, a sombre mien,
any hard accent in the voice--all these things are objections to a
man, but how much more to his work!... One must not have nerves....
Even to _suffer_ from solitude is an objection--the only thing I have
always suffered from is "multitude."[5] At an absurdly tender age, in
fact when I was seven years old, I already knew that no human speech
would ever reach me: did any one ever see me sad on that account? At
present I still possess the same affability towards everybody, I am
even full of consideration for the lowest: in all this there is not
an atom of haughtiness or of secret contempt. He whom I despise soon
guesses that he is despised by me: the very fact of my existence is
enough to rouse indignation in all those who have polluted blood in
their veins. My formula for greatness in man is! _amor fati_: the fact
that a man wishes nothing to be different, either in front of him or
behind him, or for all eternity. Not only must the necessary be borne,
and on no account concealed,--all idealism is falsehood in the face of
necessity,--but it must also be _loved...._


[Footnote 1: Nietzsche, as is well known, devoted much time when a
student at Leipzig to the study of three Greek philosophers, Theognis,
Diogenes Laertius, and Democritus. This study first bore fruit in the
case of a paper, _Zur Geschichte der Theognideischen Spruchsammlung_,
which was subsequently published by the most influential journal of
classical philology in Germany. Later, however, it enabled Nietzsche to
enter for the prize offered by the University of Leipzig for an essay,
_De fontibus Diogenis Laertii._ He was successful in gaining the prize,
and the treatise was afterwards published in the _Rheinisches Museum,_
and is still quoted as an authority. It is to this essay, written when
he was twenty-three years of age, that he here refers.--TR.]

[Footnote 2: The favourite uniform of the German Emperor, William
II.--TR.]

[Footnote 3: In the latter years of his life, Nietzsche practically
made Italy his home.--TR.]

[Footnote 4: See note on page 37.]

[Footnote 5: The German words are, _Einsamkeit_ and _Vielsamkeit._ The
latter was coined by Nietzsche. The English word "multitude" should,
therefore, be understood as signifying multifarious instincts and
gifts, which in Nietzsche strove for ascendancy and caused him more
suffering than any solitude. Complexity of this sort, held in check
by a dominant instinct, as in Nietzsche's case, is of course the only
possible basis of an artistic nature.--TR.]




WHY I WRITE SUCH EXCELLENT BOOKS



1


I am one thing, my creations are another. Here, before I speak of the
books themselves, I shall touch upon the question of the understanding
and misunderstanding with which they have met. I shall proceed to
do this in as perfunctory a manner as the occasion demands; for the
time has by no means come for this question. My time has not yet
come either; some are born posthumously. One s day institutions will
be needed in which men will live and teach, as I understand living
and teaching; maybe, also, that by that time, chairs will be founded
and endowed for the interpretation of _Zarathustra. _ But I should
regard it as a complete contradiction of myself, if I expected to
find ears and eyes for my truths to-day: the fact that no one listens
to me, that no one knows how to receive at my hands to-day, is not
only comprehensible, it seems to me quite the proper thing. I do not
wish to be mistaken for another--and to this end I must not mistake
myself. To repeat what I have already said, I can point to but few
instances of ill-will in my life: and as for literary ill-will, I
could mention scarcely a single example of it. On the other hand, I
have met with far too much _pure foolery_!... It seems to me that to
take up one of my books is one of the rarest honours that a man can
pay himself--even supposing that he put his shoes from off his feet
beforehand, not to mention boots.... When on one occasion Dr. Heinrich
von Stein honestly complained that he could not understand a word of
my _Zarathustra,_ I said to him that this was just as it should be: to
have understood six sentences in that book--that is to say, to have
lived them--raises a man to a higher level among mortals than "modern"
men can attain. With this feeling of distance how could I even wish to
be read by the "moderns" whom I know! My triumph is just the opposite
of what Schopenhauer's was--I say "_Non_ legor, _non_ legar."--Not
that I should like to underestimate the pleasure I have derived from
the innocence with which my works have frequently been contradicted.
As late as last summer, at a time when I was attempting, perhaps by
means of my weighty, all-too-weighty literature, to throw the rest of
literature off its balance, a certain professor of Berlin University
kindly gave me to understand that I ought really to make use of a
different form: no one could read such stuff as I wrote.--Finally, it
was not Germany, but Switzerland that presented me with the two most
extreme cases. An essay on _Beyond Good and Evil,_ by Dr. V. Widmann in
the paper called the _Bund,_ under the heading "Nietzsche's Dangerous
Book," and a general account of all my works, from the pen of Herr
Karl Spitteler, also in the _Bund,_ constitute a maximum in my life--I
shall not say of what.... The latter treated my _Zarathustra,_ for
instance as "_advanced exercises in style_," and expressed the wish
that later on I might try and attend to the question of substance as
well; Dr. Widmann assured me of his respect for the courage I showed
in endeavouring to abolish all decent feeling. Thanks to a little
trick of destiny, every sentence in these criticisms seemed, with
a consistency that I could but admire, to be an inverted truth. In
fact it was most remarkable that all one had to do was to "transvalue
all values," in order to hit the nail on the head with regard to me,
instead of striking my head with the nail.... I am more particularly
anxious therefore to discover an explanation. After all, no one can
draw more out of things, books included, than he already knows. A man
has no ears for that to which experience has given him no access. To
take an extreme case, suppose a book contains simply incidents which
lie quite outside the range of general or even rare experience--suppose
it to be the _first_ language to express a whole series of experiences.
In this case nothing it contains will really be heard at all, and,
thanks to an acoustic delusion, people will believe that where nothing
is heard there is nothing to hear.... This, at least, has been my
usual experience, and proves, if you will, the originality of my
experience. He who thought he had understood something in my work, had
as a rule adjusted something in it to his own image--not infrequently
the very opposite of myself, an "idealist," for instance. He who
understood nothing in my work, would deny that I was worth considering
at all.--The word "Superman," which designates a type of man that
would be one of nature's rarest and luckiest strokes, as opposed to
"modern" men, to "good" men, to Christians and other Nihilists,--a
word which in the mouth of Zarathustra, the annihilator of morality,
acquires a very profound meaning,--is understood almost everywhere, and
with perfect innocence, in the light of those values to which a flat
contradiction was made manifest in the figure of Zarathustra--that is
to say, as an "ideal" type, a higher kind of man, half "saint" and half
"genius." ... Other learned cattle have suspected me of Darwinism on
account of this word: even the "hero cult" of that great unconscious
and involuntary swindler, Carlyle,--a cult which I repudiated with
such roguish malice,--was recognised in my doctrine. Once, when I
whispered to a man that he would do better I to seek for the Superman
in a Cæsar Borgia than in a Parsifal, he could not believe his ears.
The fact that I am quite free from curiosity in regard to criticisms of
my books, more particularly when they appear in newspapers, will have
to be forgiven me. My friends and my publishers know this, and never
speak to me of such things. In one particular case, I once saw all the
sins that had been committed against a single book--it was _Beyond Good
and Evil;_ I could tell you a nice story about it. Is it possible that
the _National-Zeitung_--a Prussian paper (this comment is for the sake
of my foreign readers--for my own part, I beg to state, I read only _Le
Journal des Débats_)--really and seriously regarded the book as a "sign
of the times," or a genuine and typical example of Tory philosophy,[1]
for which the _Kreuz-Zeitung_ had not sufficient courage?...



2


This was said for the benefit of Germans: for everywhere else I have
my readers--all of them exceptionally intelligent men, characters that
have won their spurs and that have been reared in high offices and
superior duties; I have even real geniuses among my readers. In Vienna,
in St Petersburg, in Stockholm, in Copenhagen, in Paris, and New
York--I have been discovered everywhere: I have not yet been discovered
in Europe's flatland--Germany.... And, to make a confession, I rejoice
much more heartily over those who do not read me, over those who have
neither heard of my name nor of the word philosophy. But whithersoever
I go, here in Turin, for instance, every face brightens and softens
at the sight of me. A thing that has flattered me more than anything
else hitherto, is the fact that old market-women cannot rest until
they have picked out the sweetest of their grapes for me. To this
extent must a man be a philosopher.... It is not in vain that the
Poles are considered as the French among the Slavs. A charming Russian
lady will not be mistaken for a single moment concerning my origin.
I am not successful at being pompous, the most I can do is to appear
embarrassed.... I can think in German, I can feel in German--I can do
most things; but this is beyond my powers.... My old master Ritschl
went so far as to declare that I planned even my philological treatises
after the manner of a Parisian novelist--that I made them absurdly
thrilling. In Paris itself people are surprised at "_toutes mes audaces
et finesses_";--the words are Monsieur Taine's;--I fear that even in
the highest forms of the dithyramb, that salt will be found pervading
my work which never becomes insipid, which never becomes "German"--and
that is, wit.... I can do nought else. God help me! Amen.--We all know,
some of us even from experience, what a "long-ears" is. Well then, I
venture to assert that I have the smallest ears that have ever been
seen. This fact is not without interest to women--it seems to me they
feel that I understand them better!... I am essentially the anti-ass,
and on this account alone a monster in the world's history--in Greek,
and not only in Greek, I am the _Antichrist._



3


I am to a great extent aware of my privileges as a writer: in one
or two cases it has even been brought home to me how very much the
habitual > reading of my works "spoils" a man's taste. Other books
simply cannot be endured after mine, and least of all philosophical
ones. It is an incomparable distinction to cross the threshold of
this noble and subtle world--in order to do so one must certainly
not be a German; it is, in short, a distinction which one must have
deserved. He, however, who is related to me through loftiness of
will, experiences genuine raptures of understanding in my books:
for I swoop down from heights into which no bird has ever soared; I
know abysses into which no foot has ever slipped. People have told
me that it is impossible to lay down a book of mine--that I disturb
even the night's rest.... There is no prouder or at the same time more
subtle kind of books: they sometimes attain to the highest pinnacle
of earthly endeavour, cynicism; to capture their thoughts a man must
have the tenderest fingers as well as the most intrepid fists. Any
kind of spiritual decrepitude utterly excludes all intercourse with
them--even any kind of dyspepsia: a man must have no nerves, but he
must have a cheerful belly. Not only the poverty of a man's soul and
its stuffy air excludes all intercourse with them, but also, and to a
much greater degree, cowardice, uncleanliness, and secret intestinal
revengefulness; a word from my lips suffices to make the colour of
all evil instincts rush into a face. Among my acquaintances I have
a number of experimental subjects, in whom I see depicted all the
different, and instructively different, reactions which follow upon
a perusal of my works. Those who will have nothing to do with the
contents of my books, as for instance my so-called friends, assume an
"impersonal" tone concerning them: they wish me luck, and congratulate
me for having produced another work; they also declare that my writings
show progress, because they exhale a more cheerful spirit.... The
thoroughly vicious people, the "beautiful souls," the false from top to
toe, do not know in the least what to do with my books--consequently,
with the beautiful consistency of all beautiful souls, they regard
my work as beneath them. The cattle among my acquaintances, the mere
Germans, leave me to understand, if you please, that they are not
always of my opinion, though here and there they agree with me.... I
have heard this said even about _Zarathustra._ "Feminism," whether in
mankind or in man, is likewise a barrier to my writings; with it, no
one could ever enter into this labyrinth of fearless knowledge. To
this end, a man must never have spared himself, he must have been hard
in his habits, in order to be good-humoured and merry among a host of
inexorable truths. When I try to picture the character of a perfect
reader, I always imagine a monster of courage and curiosity, as well as
of suppleness, cunning, and prudence--in short, a born adventurer and
explorer. After all, I could not describe better than _Zarathustra_ has
done unto whom I really address myself: unto whom alone would he reveal
his riddle?

"Unto you, daring explorers and experimenters, and unto all who have
ever embarked beneath cunning sails upon terrible seas;

"Unto you who revel in riddles and in twilight, whose souls are lured
by flutes unto every treacherous abyss:

"For ye care not to grope your way along a thread with craven fingers;
and where ye are able to _guess,_ ye hate to _argue_?"



4


I will now pass just one or two general remarks about my _art of
style._ To communicate a state an inner tension of pathos by means
of signs, including the tempo of these signs,--that is the meaning of
every style; and in view of the fact that the multiplicity of inner
states in me is enormous, I am capable of many kinds of style--in
short, the most multifarious art of style that any man has ever had at
his disposal. Any style is _good_ which genuinely communicates an inner
condition, which does not blunder over the signs, over the tempo of the
signs, or over _moods_--all the laws of phrasing are the outcome of
representing moods artistically. Good style, in itself, is a piece of
sheer foolery, mere idealism, like "beauty in itself," for instance,
or "goodness in itself," or "the thing-in-itself." All this takes for
granted, of course, that there exist ears that can hear, and such men
as are capable and worthy of a like pathos, that those are not wanting
unto whom one may communicate one's self. Meanwhile my Zarathustra,
for instance, is still in quest of such people--alas! he will have to
seek a long while yet! A man must be worthy of listening to him....
And, until that time, there will be no one who will understand the art
that has been squandered in this book. No one has ever existed who has
had more novel, more strange, and purposely created art forms to fling
to the winds. The fact that such things were possible in the German
language still awaited proof; formerly, I myself would have denied
most emphatically that it was possible. Before my time people did not
know what could be done with the German language--what could be done
with language in general. The art of grand rhythm, of grand style in
periods, for expressing the tremendous fluctuations of sublime and
superhuman passion, was first discovered by me: with the dithyramb
entitled "The Seven Seals," which constitutes the last discourse of
the third part of _Zarathustra,_ I soared miles above all that which
heretofore has been called poetry.



5


The fact that the voice which speaks in my works is that of a
psychologist who has not his peer, is perhaps the first conclusion
at which a good reader will arrive--a reader such as I deserve, and
one who reads me just as the good old philologists used to read their
Horace. Those propositions about which all the world is fundamentally
agreed--not to speak of fashionable philosophy, of moralists and
other empty-headed and cabbage-brained people--are to me but ingenuous
blunders: for instance, the belief that "altruistic" and "egoistic";
are opposites, while all the time the "ego" itself is merely a "supreme
swindle," an "ideal." ... There are no such things as egoistic or
altruistic actions: both concepts are psychological nonsense. Or
the proposition that "man pursues happiness"; or the proposition
that "happiness is the reward of virtue." ... Or the proposition
that "pleasure and pain are opposites." ... Morality, the Circe of
mankind, has falsified everything psychological, root and branch--it
has demoralised everything, even to the terribly nonsensical point
of calling love "unselfish." A man must first be firmly poised, he
must stand securely on his two legs, otherwise he cannot love at
all. This indeed the girls know only too well: they don't care two
pins about unselfish and merely objective men.... May I venture to
suggest, incidentally, that I know women? This knowledge is part of my
Dionysian patrimony. Who knows? maybe I am the first psychologist of
the eternally feminine. Women all like me.... But that's an old story:
save, of course, the abortions among them, the emancipated ones, those
who lack the where-withal to have children. Thank goodness I am not
willing to let myself be torn to pieces! the perfect woman tears you
to pieces when she loves you: I know these amiable Mænads.... Oh! what
a dangerous, creeping, subterranean little beast of prey she is! And
so agreeable withal! ... A little woman, pursuing her vengeance, would
force open even the iron gates of Fate itself. Woman is incalculably
more wicked than man, she is also cleverer. Goodness in a woman is
already a sign of _degeneration._ All cases of "beautiful souls" in
women may be traced to a faulty physiological condition--but I go no
further, lest I should become medicynical. The struggle for equal
rights is even a symptom of disease; every doctor knows this. The more
womanly a woman is, the more she fights tooth and nail against rights
in general: the natural order of things, the eternal war between the
sexes, assigns to her by far the foremost rank. Have people had ears
to hear my definition of love? It is the only definition worthy of a
philosopher. Love, in its means, is war; in its foundation, it is the
mortal hatred of the sexes. Have you heard my reply to the question
how a woman can be cured, "saved" in fact?--Give her a child! A woman
needs children, man is always only a means, thus spake Zarathustra.
"The emancipation of women,"--this is the instinctive hatred of
physiologically botched--that is to say, barren--women for those of
their sisters who are well constituted: the fight against "man" is
always only a means, a pretext, a piece of strategy. By trying to rise
to "Woman _per se_," to "Higher Woman," to the "Ideal Woman," all they
wish to do is to lower the general level of women's rank: and there are
no more certain means to this end than university education, trousers,
and the rights of voting cattle. Truth to tell, the emancipated are
the anarchists in the "eternally feminine" world, the physiological
mishaps, the most deep-rooted instinct of whom is revenge. A whole
species of the most malicious "idealism"--which, by the bye, also
manifests itself in men, in Henrik Ibsen for instance, that typical
old maid--whose object is to poison the clean conscience, the natural
spirit, of sexual love.... And in order to leave no doubt in your minds
in regard to my opinion, which, on this matter, is as honest as it
is severe, I will reveal to you one more clause out of my moral code
against vice--with the word "vice" I combat every kind of! opposition
to Nature, or, if you prefer fine words, idealism. The clause reads:
"Preaching of chastity is a public incitement to unnatural practices.
All depreciation of the sexual life, all the sullying of it by means
of the concept 'impure,' is the essential crime against Life--is the
essential crime against the Holy Spirit of Life."

In order to give you some idea of myself as a psychologist, let me
take this curious piece of psychological analysis out of the book
_Beyond Good and Evil,_ in which it appears. I forbid, by the bye, any
guessing as to whom I am describing in this passage. "The genius of
the heart, as that great anchorite possesses it, the divine tempter
and born Pied Piper of consciences, whose voice knows how to sink into
the inmost depths of every soul, who neither utters a word nor casts a
glance, in which some seductive motive or trick does not lie: a part
of whose masterliness is that he understands the art of seeming--not
what he is, but that which will place a fresh constraint upon his
followers to press ever more closely upon him, to follow him ever more
enthusiastically and whole-heartedly.... The genius of the heart,
which makes all loud and self-conceited things hold their tongues and
lend their ears, which polishes all rough souls and makes them taste a
new longing--to lie placid as a mirror, that the deep heavens may be
reflected in them.... The genius of the heart which teaches the clumsy
and too hasty hand to hesitate and grasp more tenderly; which scents
the hidden and forgotten treasure, the pearl of goodness and sweet
spirituality, beneath thick black ice, and is a divining rod for every
grain of gold, long buried and imprisoned in heaps of mud and sand....
The genius of the heart, from contact with which every man goes away
richer, not 'blessed' and overcome, not as though favoured and crushed
by the good things of others; but richer in himself, fresher to
himself than before, opened up, breathed upon and sounded by a thawing
wind; more uncertain, perhaps, more delicate, more fragile, more
bruised; but full of hopes which as yet lack names, full of a new will
and striving, full of a new unwillingness and counter-striving." ...


[Footnote 1: _Junker-Philosophie._ The landed proprietors constitute
the dominating class in Prussia, and it is from this class that all
officers and higher officials are drawn. The _Kreuz-Zeitung_ is the
organ of the Junker party.--TR.]




"THE BIRTH Of TRAGEDY"



1


In order to be fair to the _Birth of Tragedy_ (1872) it is necessary
to forget a few things. It created a sensation and even fascinated by
means of its mistakes--by means of its application to Wagnerism, as
if the latter were the sign of an ascending tendency. On that account
alone, this treatise was an event in Wagner's life: thenceforward
great hopes surrounded the name of Wagner. Even to this day, people
remind me, sometimes in the middle of _Parsifal,_ that it rests on
my conscience if the opinion, that this movement is of great value
to culture, at length became prevalent I have often seen the book
quoted as "The Second Birth of Tragedy from the Spirit of Music":
people had ears only for new formulæ for Wagner's art, his object
and his mission--and in this way the real hidden value of the book
was overlooked. "Hellenism and Pessimism"--this would have been a
less equivocal title, seeing that the book contains the first attempt
at showing how the Greeks succeeded in disposing: of pessimism--in
what manner they overcame it. ... Tragedy itself is the proof of
the fact that the Greeks were not pessimists: Schopenhauer blundered
here as he blundered in everything else.--Regarded impartially,
_The Birth of Tragedy_ is a book quite strange to its age: no one
would dream that it was begun in the thunder of the battle of Wörth.
I thought out these problems on cold September nights beneath the
walls of Metz, in the midst of my duties as nurse to the wounded; it
would be easier to think that it was written fifty years earlier. Its
attitude towards politics is one of indifference,--"un-German,"[1]
as people would say to-day,--it smells offensively of Hegel; only in
one or two formulæ is it infected with the bitter odour of corpses
which is peculiar to Schopenhauer. An idea--the antagonism of the two
concepts Dionysian and Apollonian--is translated into metaphysics;
history itself is depicted as the development of this idea; in tragedy
this antithesis has become unity; from this standpoint things which
theretofore had never been face to face are suddenly confronted, and
understood and illuminated by each other.... Opera and revolution,
for instance.... The two decisive innovations in the book are, first,
the comprehension of the Dionysian phenomenon among the Greeks--it
provides the first psychological analysis of this phenomenon, and
sees in it the single root of all Greek art; and, secondly, the
comprehension of Socraticism--Socrates being presented for the first
time as the instrument of Greek dissolution, as a typical decadent.
"Reason" _versus_ Instinct. "Reason" at any cost, as a dangerous,
life-undermining force. The whole book is profoundly and politely
silent concerning Christianity: the latter is neither Apollonian nor
Dionysian; it denies all æsthetic values, which are the only values
that _The Birth of Tragedy_ recognises. Christianity is most profoundly
nihilistic, whereas in the Dionysian symbol, the most extreme limits of
a yea-saying attitude to life are attained. In one part of the book the
Christian priesthood is referred to as a "perfidious order of goblins,"
as "subterraneans."

This start of mine was remarkable beyond measure. As a confirmation of
my inmost personal experience I had discovered the only example of this
fact that history possesses,--with this I was the first to understand
the amazing Dionysian phenomenon. At the same time, by recognising
Socrates as a decadent, I proved most conclusively that the certainty
of my psychological grasp of things ran very little risk at the hands
of any sort of moral idiosyncrasy: to regard morality itself as a
symptom of degeneration is an innovation, a unique event of the first
order in the history of knowledge. How high I had soared above the
pitifully foolish gabble about Optimism and Pessimism with my two new
doctrines! I was the first to see the actual contrast: the degenerate
instinct which turns upon life with a subterranean lust of vengeance
(Christianity, Schopenhauer's philosophy, and in some respects too
even Plato's philosophy--in short, the whole of idealism in its typical
forms), as opposed to a formula of the highest yea-saying to life,
born of an abundance and a superabundance of life--a I yea-saying free
from all reserve, applying even to suffering, and guilt, and all that
is questionable and strange in existence.... This last, most joyous,
most exuberant and exultant yea to life, is not only the highest,
but also the profoundest conception, and one which is most strictly
confirmed and supported by truth and science. Nothing that exists must
be suppressed, nothing can be dispensed with. Those aspects of life
which Christians and other Nihilists reject, belong to an incalculably
higher order in the hierarchy of values, than that which the instinct
of degeneration calls good, and _may_ call good. In order to understand
this, a certain courage is necessary, and, as a prerequisite of this,
a certain superfluity of strength: for a man can approach only as near
to truth as he has the courage to advance--that is to say, everything
depends strictly upon the measure of his strength. Knowledge, and
the affirmation of reality, are just as necessary to the strong man
as cowardice, the flight from reality--in fact, the "ideal"--are
necessary to the weak inspired by weakness.... These people are not
at liberty to "know,"--decadents stand in need of lies,--it is one of
their self-preservative measures. He who not only understands the word
"Dionysian," but understands _himself_ in that term, does not require
any refutation of Plato, or of Christianity, or of Schopenhauer--for
his nose _scents decomposition._



3


The extent to which I had by means of these doctrines discovered the
idea of "tragedy," the ultimate explanation of what the psychology of
tragedy is, I discussed finally in _The Twilight of the Idols_ (Aph.
5, part 10).... "The saying of yea to life, and even to its weirdest
and most difficult problems: the will to life rejoicing at its own
infinite vitality in the sacrifice of its highest types--that is what I
called Dionysian, that is what I meant as the bridge to the psychology
of the tragic poet. Not to cast out terror and pity, or to purge one's
self of dangerous passion by discharging it with vehemence,--this was
Aristotle's[2] misunderstanding of it,--but to be far beyond terror
and pity and to be the eternal lust of Becoming itself--that lust
which also involves the joy of destruction." ... In this sense I have
the right to regard myself as the first _tragic philosopher_--that is
to say, the most extreme antithesis and antipodes of a pessimistic
philosopher. Before my time no such thing existed as this translation
of the Dionysian phenomenon into philosophic emotion: tragic wisdom was
lacking; in vain have I sought for signs of it even among the great
Greeks in philosophy--those belonging to the two centuries before
Socrates. I still remained a little doubtful about Heraclitus, in whose
presence, alone, I felt warmer and more at ease than anywhere else.
The yea-saying to the impermanence and annihilation of things, which
is the decisive feature of a Dionysian philosophy; the yea-saying to
contradiction and war, the postulation of Becoming, together with the
radical rejection even of the concept _Being_-- in all these things, at
all events, I must recognise him who has come nearest to me in thought
hither to. The doctrine of the "Eternal Recurrence"--that is to say,
of the absolute and eternal repetition of all things in periodical
cycles--this doctrine of Zarathustra's might, it is true, have been
taught before. In any case, the Stoics, who derived nearly all their
fundamental ideas from Heraclitus, show traces of it.

A tremendous hope finds expression in this work. After all, I have
absolutely no reason to renounce the hope for a Dionysian future of
music. Let us look a century ahead, and let us suppose that my attempt
to destroy two millenniums of hostility to Nature and of the violation
of humanity be crowned with success That new party of life-advocates,
which will undertake the greatest of all tasks, the elevation and
perfection of mankind, as well as the relentless destruction of all
degenerate and parasitical elements, will make that _superabundance
of life_ on earth once more possible, out of which the Dionysian
state will perforce arise again. I promise the advent of a tragic
age: the highest art in the saying of yea to life, "tragedy," will be
born again when mankind has the knowledge of the hardest, but most
necessary of wars, behind it, without, however, suffering from that
knowledge.... A psychologist might add that what I heard in Wagnerian
music in my youth and early manhood had nothing whatsoever to do with
Wagner; that when I described Dionysian music, I described merely
what _I_ personally had heard--that I was compelled instinctively to
translate and transfigure everything into the new spirit which filled
my breast. A proof of this, and as strong a proof as you could have,
is my essay, _Wagner in Bayreuth_: in all its decisive psychological
passages I am the only person concerned--without any hesitation you may
read my name or the word "Zarathustra" wherever the text contains the
name of Wagner. The whole panorama of the _dithyrambic_ artist is the
representation of the already existing author of _Zarathustra,_ and
it is drawn with an abysmal depth which does not even once come into
contact with the real Wagner. Wagner himself had a notion of the truth;
he did not recognise himself in the essay.--In this way, "the idea of
Bayreuth" was changed into something which to those who are acquainted
with my _Zarathustra_ will be no riddle--that is to say, into the
Great Noon when the highest of the elect will consecrate themselves
for the greatest of all duties--who knows? the vision of a feast which
I may live to see.... The pathos of the first few pages is universal
history; the look which is discussed on page 105[3] of the book, is the
actual look of _Zarathustra;_ Wagner, Bayreuth, the whole of this petty
German wretchedness, is a cloud upon which an infinite Fata Morgana
of the future is reflected. Even from the psychological standpoint,
all the decisive traits in my character are introduced into Wagner's
nature--the juxtaposition of the most brilliant and most fatal forces,
a Will to Power such as no man has ever possessed--inexorable bravery
in matters spiritual, an unlimited power of learning unaccompanied by
depressed powers for action. Everything in this essay is a prophecy:
the proximity of the resurrection of the Greek spirit, the need of men
who will be counter-Alexanders, who will once more tie the Gordian knot
of Greek culture, after it has been cut. Listen to the world-historic
accent with which the concept "sense for the tragic" is introduced
on page 180: there are little else but world-historic accents in
this essay. This is the strangest kind of "objectivity" that ever
existed: my absolute certainty in regard to what I _am,_ projected
itself into any chance reality--truth about myself was voiced from out
appalling depths. On pages 174 and 175 the style of _Zarathustra_ is
described and foretold with incisive certainty, and no more magnificent
expression will ever be found than that on pages 144-147 for the event
for which _Zarathustra_ stands--that prodigious act of the purification
and consecration of mankind.


[Footnote 1: Those Germans who, like Nietzsche or Goethe, recognised
that politics constituted a danger to culture, and who appreciated the
literature of maturer cultures, such as that of France, are called
_un-deutsch_ (un-German) by Imperialistic Germans.--Tr.]

[Footnote 2: Aristotle's _Poetics_, c. vi.--Tr.]

[Footnote 3: This number and those which follow refer to _Thoughts out
of Season,_ Part I. in this edition of Nietzsche's Works.--TR.]




"THOUGHTS OUT OF SEASON"



1


The four essays composing the _Thoughts out of Season_ are thoroughly
warlike in tone. They prove that I was no mere dreamer, that I delight
in drawing the sword--and perhaps, also, that my wrist is dangerously
supple. The first onslaught (1873) was directed against German culture,
upon which I looked down even at that time with unmitigated contempt
Without either sense, substance, or goal, it was simply "public
opinion." There could be no more dangerous misunderstanding than to
suppose that Germany's success at arms proved anything in favour of
German culture--and still less the triumph of this culture; over
that of France. The second essay (1874) brings to light that which
is dangerous, that which corrodes and poisons life in our manner of
pursuing scientific study: Life is diseased, thanks to this dehumanised
piece of clockwork and mechanism, thanks to the "impersonality" of
the workman, 1 and the false economy of the "division of labour." The
object, which is culture, is lost sight of: modern scientific activity
as a means thereto simply produces barbarism. In this treatise, the
"historical sense," of which this century is so proud, is for the first
time recognised as sickness, as a typical symptom of decay. In the
third and fourth essays, a sign-post is set up pointing to a higher
concept of culture, to a re-establishment of the notion "culture";
and two pictures of the hardest self-love and self-discipline are
presented, two essentially un-modern types, full of the most sovereign
contempt for all that which lay around them and was called "Empire,"
"Culture," "Christianity," "Bismarck," and "Success,"--these two types
were Schopenhauer and Wagner, _or,_ in a word, Nietzsche....



2


Of these four attacks, the first met with extraordinary success. The
stir which it created was in every way gorgeous. I had put my finger
on the vulnerable spot of a triumphant nation--I had told it that its
victory was not a red-letter day for culture, but, perhaps, something
very different. The reply rang out from all sides, and certainly not
only from old friends of David Strauss, whom I had made ridiculous
as the type of a German Philistine of Culture and a man of smug
self-content--in short, as the author of that suburban gospel of his,
called _The Old and the New Faith_ (the term "Philistine of Culture"
passed into the current language of Germany after the appearance of my
book). These old friends, whose vanity as Würtembergians and Swabians
I had deeply wounded in regarding their unique animal, their bird
of Paradise, as a trifle comic, replied to me as ingenuously and as
grossly as I could have wished. The Prussian replies were smarter; they
contained more "Prussian blue." The most disreputable attitude was
assumed by a Leipzig paper, the egregious _Grentzboten_; and it cost me
some pains to prevent my indignant friends in Bâle from taking action
against it. Only a few old gentlemen decided in my favour, and for
very diverse and sometimes unaccountable reasons. Among them was one,
Ewald of Göttingen, who made it clear that my attack on Strauss had
been deadly. There was also the Hegelian, Bruno Bauer, who from that
time became one of my most attentive readers. In his later years he
liked to refer to me, when, for instance, he wanted to give Herr von
Treitschke, the Prussian Historiographer, a hint as to where he could
obtain information about the notion "Culture," of which he (Herr von
T.) had completely lost sight. The weightiest and longest notice of my
book and its author appeared in Würzburg, and was written by Professor
Hoffmann, an old pupil of the philosopher von Baader. The essays made
him foresee a great future for me, namely, that of bringing about a
sort of crisis and decisive turning-point in the problem of atheism,
of which he recognised in me the most instinctive and most radical
advocate. It was atheism that had drawn me to Schopenhauer. The review
which received by far the most attention, and which excited the most
bitterness, was an extraordinarily powerful and plucky appreciation of
my work by Carl Hillebrand, a man who was usually so mild, and the last
_humane_ German who knew how to wield a pen. The article appeared in
the _Augsburg Gazette,_ and it can be read to-day, couched in rather
more cautious language, among his collected essays. In it my work was
referred to as an event, as a decisive turning-point, as the first sign
of an awakening, as an excellent symptom, and as an actual revival
of German earnestness and of German passion in things spiritual.
Hillebrand could speak only in the terms of the highest respect, of
the form of my book, of its consummate taste, of its perfect tact in
discriminating between persons and causes: he characterised it as the
best polemical work in the German language,--the best performance in
the art of polemics, which for Germans is so dangerous and so strongly
to be deprecated. Besides confirming my standpoint, he laid even
greater stress upon what I had dared to say about the deterioration of
language in Germany (nowadays writers assume the airs of Purists[1]
and can no longer even construct a sentence); sharing my contempt for
the literary stars of this nation, he concluded by expressing his
admiration for my courage--that "greatest courage of all which places
the very favourites of the people in the dock." ... The after-effects
of this essay of mine proved invaluable to me in my life. No one has
ever tried to meddle with me since. People are silent. In Germany
I am treated with gloomy caution: for years I have rejoiced in the
privilege of such absolute freedom of speech, as no one nowadays,
least of all in the "Empire," has enough liberty to claim. My paradise
is "in the shadow of my sword." At bottom all I had done was to put
one of Stendhal's maxims into practice: he advises one to make one's
entrance into society by means of a duel. And how well I had chosen my
opponent!--the foremost free-thinker of Germany. As a matter of fact,
quite a novel kind of free thought found its expression in this way:
up to the present nothing has been more strange and more foreign to my
blood than the whole of that European and American species known as
_litres penseurs._ Incorrigible blockheads and clowns of "modern ideas"
that they are, I feel much more profoundly at variance with them than
with any one of their adversaries. They also wish to "improve" mankind,
after their own fashion--that is to say, in their own image; against
that which I stand for and desire, they would wage an implacable war,
if only they understood it; the whole gang of them still believe in an
"ideal." ... I am the first _Immoralist_.



3


I should not like to say that the last two essays in the _Thoughts
out of Season,_ associated with the names of Schopenhauer and Wagner
respectively, serve any special purpose in throwing light upon these
two cases, or in formulating their psychological problems. This of
course does not apply to a few details. Thus, for instance, in the
second of the two essays, with a profound certainty of instinct I
already characterised the elementary factor in Wagner's nature as a
theatrical talent which in all his means and inspirations only draws
its final conclusions. At bottom, my desire in this essay was to do
something very different from writing psychology: an unprecedented
educational problem, a new understanding of self-discipline and
self-defence carried to the point of hardness, a road to greatness
and to world-historic duties, yearned to find expression. Roughly
speaking, I seized two famous and, theretofore, completely undefined
types by the forelock, after the manner in which one seizes
opportunities, simply in order to speak my mind on certain questions,
in order to have a few more formulas, signs, and means of expression
at my disposal. Indeed I actually suggest this, with most unearthly
sagacity, on page 183 of _Schopenhauer as Educator._ Plato made use
of Socrates in the same way--that is to say, as a cipher for Plato.
Now that, from some distance, I can look back upon the conditions of
which these essays are the testimony, I would be loth to deny that they
refer simply to me. The essay _Wagner in Bayreuth_ is a vision of my
own future; on the other hand, my most secret history, my development,
is written down in _Schopenhauer as Educator._ But, above all, the
_vow_ I made I What I am to-day, the place I now hold--at a height from
which I speak no longer with words but with thunderbolts!--oh, how
far I was from all this in those days! But I saw the land--I did not
deceive myself for one moment as to the way, the sea, the danger--_and_
success! The great calm in promising, this happy prospect of a future
which must not remain only a promise!--In this book every word has
been lived, profoundly and intimately; the most painful things are not
lacking in it; it contains words which are positively running with
blood. But a wind of great freedom blows over the whole; even its
wounds do not constitute an objection. As to what I understand by being
a philosopher,--that is to say, a terrible explosive in the presence
of which everything is in danger; as to how I sever my idea of the
philosopher by miles from that other idea of him which includes even a
Kant, not to speak of the academic "ruminators" and other professors of
philosophy,--concerning all these things this essay provides invaluable
information, even granting that at bottom, it is not "Schopenhauer as
Educator" but "Nietzsche as Educator," who speaks his sentiments in
it. Considering that, in those days, my trade was that of a scholar,
and perhaps, also, that I understood my trade, the piece of austere
scholar psychology which suddenly makes its appearance in this essay is
not without importance: it expresses the feeling of distance, and my
profound certainty regarding what was my real life-task, and what were
merely means, intervals, and accessory work to me. My wisdom consists
in my having been many things, and in many places, in order to become
one thing--in order to be able to attain to one thing. It was part of
my fate to be a scholar for a while.


[Footnote 1: The Purists constitute a definite body in Germany, which
is called the _Deutscher Sprach-Verein._ Their object is to banish
every foreign word from the language, and they carry this process of
ostracism even into the domain of the menu, where their efforts at
rendering the meaning of French dishes are extremely comical. Strange
to say, their principal organ, and their other publications, are by
no means free either from solecisms or faults of style, and it is
doubtless to this curious anomaly that Nietzsche here refers.--TR.]




"HUMAN, ALL-TOO-HUMAN"



1


_Human all-too-Human,_ with its two sequels, is the memorial of a
crisis. It is called a book for free spirits: almost every sentence in
it is the expression of a triumph--by means of it I purged myself of
everything in me which was foreign to my nature. Idealism is foreign
to me: the title of the book means: "Where ye see ideal things I
see--human, alas! all-too-human things!" ... I know men better. The
word "free spirit" in this book must not be understood as anything
else than a spirit that has become free, that has once more taken
possession of itself. My tone, the pitch of my voice, has completely
changed; the book will be thought clever, cool, and at times both
hard and scornful. A certain spirituality, of noble taste, seems to
be ever struggling to dominate a passionate torrent at its feet. In
this respect there is some sense in the fact that it was the hundredth
anniversary of Voltaire's death that served, so to speak, as an excuse
for the publication of the book as early as 1878. For Voltaire, as the
opposite of every one who wrote after him, was above all a grandee of
the intellect; precisely what I am also. The name of Voltaire on one
of my writings--that was verily a step forward--in my direction....
Looking into this book a little more closely, you perceive a pitiless
spirit who knows all the secret hiding-places in which ideals are wont
to skulk--where they find their dungeons, and, as it were, their last
refuge. With a torch in my hand, the light of which is not by any
means a flickering one, I illuminate this nether world with beams that
cut like blades. It is war, but war without powder and smoke, without
warlike attitudes, without pathos and contorted limbs--all these things
would still be "idealism." One error after the other is quietly laid
upon ice; the ideal is not refuted,--it freezes. Here, for instance,
"genius" freezes; round the corner the "saint" freezes; under a thick
icicle the "hero" freezes; and in the end "faith" itself freezes.
So-called "conviction" and also "pity" are considerably cooled--and
almost everywhere the "thing in itself" is freezing to death.



2


This book was begun during the first musical festival at Bayreuth; a
feeling of profound strangeness towards everything that surrounded
me there, is one of its first conditions. He who has any notion of
the visions which even at that time had flitted across my path, will
be able to guess what I felt when one day I came to my senses in
Bayreuth. It was just as if I had been dreaming. Where on earth was I?
I recognised nothing that I saw; I scarcely recognised Wagner. It was
in vain that I called up reminiscences. Tribschen--remote island of
bliss: not the shadow of a resemblance! The incomparable days devoted
to the laying of the first stone, the small group of the initiated
who celebrated them, and who were far from lacking fingers for the
handling of delicate things: not the shadow of a resemblance! _What
had happened?_--Wagner had been translated into German! The Wagnerite
had become master of Wagner!_--German_ art! the German master! German
beer!... We who know only too well the kind of refined artists and
cosmopolitanism in taste, to which alone Wagner's art can appeal, were
beside ourselves at the sight of Wagner bedecked with German virtues.
I think I know the Wagnerite, I have experienced three generations
of them, from Brendel of blessed memory, who confounded Wagner with
Hegel, to the "idealists" of the _Bayreuth Gazette,_ who confound
Wagner with themselves,--I have been the recipient of every kind of
confession about Wagner, from "beautiful souls." My kingdom for just
one intelligent word I--In very truth, a blood-curdling company! Nohl,
Pohl, and _Kohl_[1] and others of their kidney to infinity! There
was not a single abortion that was lacking among them--no, not even
the anti-Semite.--Poor Wagner! Into whose hands had he fallen? If
only he had gone into a herd of swine! But among Germans! Some day,
for the edification of posterity, one ought really to have a genuine
Bayreuthian stuffed, or, better still, preserved in spirit,--for
it is precisely spirit that is lacking in this quarter,--with this
inscription at the foot of the jar: "A sample of the spirit whereon
the 'German Empire' was founded." ... But enough! In the middle of
the festivities I suddenly packed my trunk and left the place for a
few weeks, despite the fact that a charming Parisian lady sought to
comfort me; I excused myself to Wagner simply by means of a fatalistic
telegram. In a little spot called Klingenbrunn, deeply buried in the
recesses of the Bohmerwald, I carried my melancholy and my contempt of
Germans about with me like an illness--and, from time to time, under
the general title of "The Plough-share," I wrote a sentence or two down
in my note-book, nothing but severe psychological stuff, which it is
possible may have found its way into _Human, all-too-Human._



3


That which had taken place in me, then, was not only a breach with
Wagner--I was suffering from a general aberration of my instincts,
of which a mere isolated blunder, whether it were Wagner or my
professorship at Bâle, was nothing more than a symptom. I was seized
with a fit of impatience with myself; I saw that it was high time that
I should turn my thoughts upon my own lot. In a trice I realised, with
appalling clearness, how much time had already been squandered--how
futile and how senseless my whole existence as a philologist appeared
by the side of my life-task. I was ashamed of this false modesty....
Ten years were behind me, during which, to tell the truth, the
nourishment of my spirit had been at a standstill, during which I had
added not a single useful fragment to my knowledge, and had forgotten
countless things in the pursuit of a hotch-potch of dry-as-dust
scholarship. To crawl with meticulous care and short-sighted eyes
through old Greek metricians--that is what I had come to!... Moved to
pity I saw myself quite thin, quite emaciated: realities were only too
plainly absent from my stock of knowledge, and what the "idealities"
were worth the devil alone knew! A positively burning thirst overcame
me: and from that time forward I have done literally nothing else than
study physiology, medicine, and natural science--I even returned to
the actual study of history only when my life-task compelled me to. It
was at that time, too, that I first divined the relation between an
instinctively repulsive occupation, a so-called vocation, which is the
last thing to which one is "called" and that need of lulling a feeling
of emptiness and hunger, by means of an art which is a narcotic--by
means of Wagner's art, for instance. After looking carefully about
me, I have discovered that a large number of young men are all in the
same state of distress: one kind of unnatural practice perforce leads
to another. In Germany, or rather, to avoid all ambiguity, in the
Empire,[2] only too many are condemned to determine their choice too
soon, and then to pine away beneath a burden that they can no longer
throw off.... Such creatures crave for Wagner as for an opiate,--they
are thus able to forget themselves, to be rid of themselves for a
moment.... What am I saying!--for five or six hours.



4


At this time my instincts turned resolutely against any further
yielding or following on my part, and any further misunderstanding
of myself. Every kind of life, the most unfavourable circumstances,
illness, poverty--anything seemed to me preferable to that undignified
"selfishness" into which I had fallen; in the first place, thanks to my
ignorance and youth, and in which I had afterwards remained owing to
laziness--the so-called "sense of duty." At this juncture there came to
my help, in a way that I cannot sufficiently admire, and precisely at
the right time, that evil heritage which I derive from my father's side
of the family, and which, at bottom, is no more than a predisposition
to die young. Illness slowly liberated me from the toils, it spared me
any sort of sudden breach, any sort of violent and offensive step. At
that time I lost not a particle of the good will of others, but rather
added to my store. Illness likewise gave me the right completely to
reverse my mode of life; it not only allowed, it actually commanded,
me to forget; it bestowed upon me the necessity of lying still, of
having leisure, of waiting, and of exercising patience.... But all
this means thinking!... The state of my eyes alone put an end to all
book-wormishness, or, in plain English--philology: I was thus delivered
from books; for years I ceased from reading, and this was the greatest
boon I ever conferred upon myself! That nethermost self, which was,
as it were, entombed, and which had grown dumb because it had been
forced to listen perpetually to other selves (for that is what reading
means!), slowly awakened; at first it was shy and doubtful, but at
last it _spoke again_ Never have I rejoiced more over my condition
than during the sickest and most painful moments of my life. You have
only to examine _The Dawn of Day,_ or, perhaps, _The Wanderer and
his Shadow,_[3] in order to understand what this "return to myself"
actually meant: in itself it was the highest kind of recovery!... My
cure was simply the result of it.



5


_Human, all-too-Human,_ this monument of a course of vigorous
self-discipline, by means of which I put an abrupt end to all the
"Superior Bunkum," "Idealism," "Beautiful Feelings," and other
effeminacies that had percolated into my being, was written principally
in Sorrento; it was finished and given definite shape during a winter
at Bâle, under conditions far less favourable than those in Sorrento.
Truth to tell, it was Peter Gast, at that time a student at the
University of Bâle, and a devoted friend of mine, who was responsible
for the book. With my head wrapped in bandages, and extremely painful,
I dictated while he wrote and corrected as he went along--to be
accurate, he was the real composer, whereas I was only the author.
When the completed book ultimately reached me,--to the great surprise
of the serious invalid I then was,--I sent, among others, two copies
to Bayreuth. Thanks to a miraculous flash of intelligence on the part
of chance, there reached me precisely at the same time a splendid copy
of the _Parsifal_ text, with the following inscription from Wagner's
pen: "To his dear friend Friedrich Nietzsche, from Richard Wagner,
Ecclesiastical Councillor." At this crossing of the two books I seemed
to hear an ominous note. Did it not sound as if two swords had crossed?
At all events we both felt this was so, for each of us remained silent.
At about this time the first Bayreuth Pamphlets appeared: and I then
understood the move on my part for which it was high time. Incredible!
Wagner had become pious.



6


My attitude to myself at that time (1876), and the unearthly certitude
with which I grasped my life-task and all its world-historic
consequences, is well revealed throughout the book, but more
particularly in one very significant passage, despite the fact that,
with my instinctive cunning, I once more circumvented the use of
the little word "I,"--not however, this time, in order to shed
world-historic glory on the names of Schopenhauer and Wagner, but on
that of another of my friends, the excellent Dr. Paul Rée--fortunately
much too acute a creature to be deceived--others were less subtle.
Among my readers I have a number of hopeless people, the typical
German professor for instance, who can always be recognised from the
fact that, judging from the passage in question, he feels compelled to
regard the whole book as a sort of superior Realism. As a matter of
fact it contradicts five or six of my friend's utterances: only read
the introduction to _The Genealogy of Morals_ on this question.--The
passage above referred to reads: "What, after all, is the principal
axiom to which the boldest and coldest thinker, the author of the
book "_On the Origin of Moral Sensations_" (read Nietzsche, the first
Immoralist), "has attained by means of his incisive and decisive
analysis of human actions? 'The moral man,' he says is no nearer to the
intelligible (metaphysical) world than is the physical man, for there
is no intelligible world.' This theory, hardened and sharpened under
the hammer-blow of historical knowledge" (read _The Transvaluation
of all Values_), "may some time or other, perhaps in some future
period,--1890!--serve as the axe which is applied to the root of the
'metaphysical need' of man,--whether more as a blessing than a curse to
the general welfare it is not easy to say; but in any case as a theory
with the most important consequences, at once fruitful and terrible,
and looking into the world with that Janus-face which all great
knowledge possesses."[4]


[Footnote 1: Nohl and Pohl were both writers on music; Kohl, however,
which literally means cabbage, is a slang expression, denoting superior
nonsense.--TR.]

[Footnote 2: Needless to say, Nietzsche distinguishes between
Bismarckian Germany and that other Germany--Austria, Switzerland, and
the Baltic Provinces--where the German language is also spoken.--TR.]

[Footnote 3: _Human, all-too-Human,_ Part II. in this edition.--TR.]

[Footnote 4: _Human, all-too-Human,_ vol. i. Aph. 37.]




"THE DAWN OF DAY:

THOUGHTS ABOUT MORALITY AS A PREJUDICE"



1


With this book I open my campaign against morality. Not that it is at
all redolent of powder--you will find quite other and much nicer smells
in it, provided that you have any keenness in your nostrils. There
is nothing either of light or of heavy artillery in its composition,
and if its general end be a negative one, its means are not so--means
out of which the end follows like a logical conclusion, _not_ like a
cannon-shot. And if the reader takes leave of this book with a feeling
of timid caution in regard to everything which has hitherto been
honoured and even worshipped under the name of morality, it does not
alter the fact that there is not one negative word, not one attack,
and not one single piece of malice in the whole work--on the contrary,
it lies in the sunshine, smooth and happy, like a marine animal,
basking in the sun between two rocks. For, after all, I was this marine
animal: almost every sentence in the book was thought out, or rather
_caught,_ among that medley of rocks in the neighbourhood of Genoa,
where I lived quite alone, and exchanged secrets with the ocean. Even
to this day, when by chance I happen to turn over the leaves of this
book, almost every sentence seems to me like a hook by means of which I
draw something incomparable out of the depths; its whole skin quivers
with delicate shudders of recollection. This book is conspicuous for no
little art in gently catching things which whisk rapidly and silently
away, moments which I call godlike lizards--not with the cruelty of
that young Greek god who simply transfixed the poor little beast;
but nevertheless with something pointed--with a pen. "There are so
many dawns which have not yet shed their light"--this Indian maxim is
written over the doorway of this book. Where does its author seek that
new morning, that delicate red, as yet undiscovered, with which another
day--ah! a whole series of days, a whole world of new days!--will
begin? In the _Transvaluation of all Values,_ in an emancipation from
all moral values, in a saying of yea, and in an attitude of trust, to
all that which hitherto has been forbidden, despised, and damned. This
yea-saying book projects its light, its love, its tenderness, over all
evil things, it restores to them their soul, their clear conscience,
and their superior right and privilege to exist on earth. Morality is
not assailed, it simply ceases to be considered. This book closes with
the word "or?"--it is the only book which closes with an "or?".



2


My life-task is to prepare for humanity one supreme moment in which it
can come to its senses, a Great Noon in which it will turn its gaze
backwards and forwards, in which it will step from under the yoke
of accident and of priests, and for the first time set the question
of the Why and Wherefore of humanity as a whole--this life-task
naturally follows out of the conviction that mankind does _not_ get
on the right road of its own accord, that it is by no means divinely
ruled, but rather that it is precisely under the cover of its most
holy valuations that the instinct of negation, of corruption, and of
degeneration has held such a seductive sway. The question concerning
the origin of moral valuations is therefore a matter of the highest
importance to me because it determines the future of mankind. The
demand made upon us to believe that everything is really in the best
hands, that a certain book, the Bible, gives us the definite and
comforting assurance that there is a Providence that wisely rules the
fate of man,--when translated back into reality amounts simply to this,
namely, the will to stifle the truth which maintains the reverse of
all this, which is that hitherto man has been in the _worst possible_
hands, and that he has been governed by the physiologically botched,
the men of cunning and burning revengefulness, and the so-called
"saints"--those slanderers of the world and traducers of humanity.
The definite proof of the fact that the priest (including the priest
in disguise, the philosopher) has become master, not only within a
certain limited religious community, but everywhere, and that the
morality of decadence, the will to nonentity, has become morality
_per se,_ is to be found in this: that altruism is now an absolute
value, and egoism is regarded with hostility everywhere. He who
disagrees with me on this point, I regard as infected. But all the
world disagrees with me. To a physiologist a like antagonism between
values admits of no doubt. If the most insignificant organ within the
body neglects, however slightly, to assert with absolute certainty its
self-preservative powers, its recuperative claims, and its egoism, the
whole system degenerates. The physiologist insists upon the removal of
degenerated parts, he denies all fellow-feeling for such parts, and
has not the smallest feeling of pity for them. But the desire of the
priest is precisely the degeneration of the whole of mankind; hence his
preservation of that which is degenerate--this is what his dominion
costs humanity. What meaning have those lying concepts, those handmaids
of morality, "Soul," "Spirit," "Free will," "God," if their aim is not
the physiological ruin of mankind? When earnestness is diverted from
the instincts that aim at self-preservation and an increase of bodily
energy, _i.e._ at an _increase of life_; when anæmia is raised to an
ideal and the contempt of the body is construed as "the salvation of
the soul," what is all this if it is not a recipe for decadence? Loss
of ballast, resistance offered to natural instincts, selflessness,
in fact--this is what has hitherto been known as morality. With _The
Dawn of Day_ I first engaged in a struggle against the morality of
self-renunciation.




"JOYFUL WISDOM: LA GAYA SCIENZA"



1


_Dawn of Day_ is a yea-saying book, profound, but clear and kindly. The
same applies once more and in the highest degree to _La Gaya Scienza:_
in almost every sentence of this book, profundity and playfulness go
gently hand in hand. A verse which expresses my gratitude for the most
wonderful month of January which I have ever lived--the whole book is a
gift--sufficiently reveals the abysmal depths from which "wisdom" has
here become joyful.

    "Thou who with cleaving fiery lances
    The stream of my soul from its ice dost free,
    Till with a rush and a roar it advances
    To enter with glorious hoping the sea:
    Brighter to see and purer ever,
    Free in the bonds of thy sweet constraint,--
    So it praises thy wondrous endeavour,
    January, thou beauteous saint!"[1]

Who can be in any doubt as to what "glorious hoping" means here, when
he has realised the diamond beauty of the first of Zarathustra's
words as they appear in a glow of light at the close of the fourth
book? Or when he reads the granite sentences at the end of the third
book, wherein a fate for all times is first given a formula? The songs
of Prince Free-as-a-Bird, which, for the most part, were written in
Sicily, remind me quite forcibly of that Provencal notion of "_Gaya
Scienza,_" of that union of _singer, knight, and free spirit,_ which
distinguishes that wonderfully early culture of the Provencals from
all ambiguous cultures. The last poem of all, "To the Mistral,"--an
exuberant dance song in which, if you please, the new spirit dances
freely upon the corpse of morality,--is a perfect Provençalism.


[Footnote 1: Translated for _Joyful Wisdom_ by Paul V. Cohn.--TR.]




"THUS SPAKE ZARATHUSTRA: A BOOK FOR ALL AND NONE"



1


I now wish to relate the history of _Zarathustra._ The fundamental
idea of the work, the _Eternal Recurrence,_ the highest formula of
a Yea-saying to life that can ever be attained, was first conceived
in the month of August 1881. I made a note of the idea on a sheet of
paper, with the postscript: "Six thousand feet beyond man and time."
That day I happened to be wandering through the woods alongside of the
Lake of Silvaplana, and I halted not far from Surlei, beside a huge
rock that towered aloft like a pyramid. It was then that the thought
struck me. Looking back now, I find that exactly two months before
this inspiration I had an omen of its coming in the form of a sudden
and decisive change in my tastes--more particularly in music. The
whole of _Zarathustra_ might perhaps be classified under the rubric
music. At all events, the essential condition of its production was
a second birth within me of the art of hearing. In Recoaro, a small
mountain resort near Vicenza, where I spent the spring of 1881, I and
my friend and maestro, Peter Gast--who was also one who had been born
again, discovered that the phœnix music hovered over us, in lighter
and brighter plumage than it had ever worn before. If, therefore, I
now calculate from that day forward the sudden production of the book,
under the most unlikely circumstances, in February 1883,--the last
part, out of which I quoted a few lines in my preface, was written
precisely in the hallowed hour when Richard Wagner gave up the ghost
in Venice,--I come to the conclusion that the period of gestation
covered eighteen months. This period of exactly eighteen months,
might suggest, at least to Buddhists, that I am in reality a female
elephant The interval was devoted to the _Gaya Scienza,_ which contains
hundreds of indications of the proximity of something unparalleled;
for, after all, it shows the beginning of _Zarathustra,_ since it
presents _Zarathustra's_ fundamental thought in the last aphorism
but one of the fourth book. To this interval also belongs that _Hymn
to Life_ (for a mixed choir and orchestra), the score of which was
published in Leipzig two years ago by E. W. Fritsch, and which gave
perhaps no slight indication of my spiritual state during this year,
in which the essentially yea-saying pathos, which I call the tragic
pathos, completely filled me heart and limb. One day people will sing
it to my memory. The text, let it be well understood, as there is
some misunderstanding abroad on this point, is not by me; it was the
astounding inspiration of a young Russian lady, Miss Lou von Salome,
with whom I was then on friendly terms. He who is in any way able
to make some sense of the last words of the poem, will divine why I
preferred and admired it: there is greatness in them. Pain is not
regarded as an objection to existence: "And if thou hast no bliss now
left to crown me--Lead on! Thou hast thy Sorrow still."

Maybe that my music is also great in this passage. (The last note of
the oboe, by the bye, is C sharp, not C. The latter is a misprint.)
During the following winter, I was living on that charmingly peaceful
Gulf of Rapallo, not far from Genoa, which cuts inland between Chiavari
and Cape Porto Fino. My health was not very good; the winter was cold
and exceptionally rainy; and the small _albergo_ in which I lived
was so close to the water that at night my sleep was disturbed if
the sea was rough. These circumstances were surely the very reverse
of favourable; and yet, in spite of it all, and as if in proof of my
belief that everything decisive comes to life in defiance of every
obstacle, it was precisely during this winter and in the midst of these
unfavourable circumstances that my _Zarathustra_ originated. In the
morning I used to start out in a southerly direction up the glorious
road to Zoagli, which rises up through a forest of pines and gives
one a view far out to sea. In the afternoon, or as often as my health
allowed, I walked round the whole bay from Santa Margherita to beyond
Porto Fino. This spot affected me all the more deeply because it was
so dearly loved by the Emperor Frederick III. In the autumn of 1886 I
chanced to be there again when he was revisiting this small forgotten
world of happiness for the last time. It was on these two roads that
all _Zarathustra_ came to me, above all, Zarathustra himself as a
type--I ought rather to say that it was on these walks that _he waylaid
me_.



2


In order to understand this type, you must first be quite clear
concerning its fundamental physiological condition: this condition
is what I call _great healthiness._ In regard to this idea I cannot
make my meaning more plain or more personal than I have done already
in one of the last aphorisms (No. 382) of the fifth book of the _Gaya
Scienza_: "We new, nameless, and unfathomable creatures," so reads
the passage, "we firstlings of a future still unproved--we who have a
new end in view also require new means to that end, that is to say,
a new healthiness, a stronger, keener, tougher, bolder, and merrier
healthiness than any that has existed heretofore. He who longs to
feel in his own soul the whole range of values and aims that have
prevailed on earth until his day, and to sail round all the coasts
of this ideal 'Mediterranean Sea'; who, from the adventures of his
own inmost experience, would fain know how it feels to be a conqueror
and discoverer of the ideal;--as also how it is with the artist, the
saint, the legislator, the sage, the scholar, the man of piety and the
godlike anchorite of yore;--such a man requires one thing above all
for his purpose, and that is, _great healthiness_--such healthiness as
he not only possesses, but also constantly acquires and must acquire,
because he is continually sacrificing it again, and is compelled to
sacrifice it! And now, therefore, after having been long on the way,
we Argonauts of the ideal, whose pluck is greater than prudence would
allow, and who are often shipwrecked and bruised, but, as I have said,
healthier than people would like to admit, dangerously healthy, and for
ever recovering our health--it would seem as if we had before us, as
a reward for all our toils, a country still undiscovered, the horizon
of which no one has yet seen, a beyond to every country and every
refuge of the ideal that man has ever known, a world so overflowing
with beauty, strangeness, doubt, terror, and divinity, that both our
curiosity and our lust of possession are frantic with eagerness. Alas!
how in the face of such vistas, and with such burning desire in our
conscience and consciousness, could we still be content with _the man
of the present day_? This is bad indeed; but, that we should regard
his worthiest aims and hopes with ill-concealed amusement, or perhaps
give them no thought at all, is inevitable. Another ideal now leads
us on, a wonderful, seductive ideal, full of danger, the pursuit of
which we should be loath to urge upon any one, because we are not so
ready to acknowledge any one's _right to it:_ the ideal of a spirit who
plays ingenuously (that is to say, involuntarily, and as the outcome
of superabundant energy and power) with everything that, hitherto,
has been called holy, good, inviolable, and divine; to whom even the
loftiest thing that the people have with reason made their measure of
value would be no better than a danger, a decay, and an abasement, or
at least a relaxation and temporary forgetfulness of self: the ideal
of a humanly superhuman well-being and goodwill, which often enough
will seem inhuman--as when, for instance, it stands beside all past
earnestness on earth, and all past solemnities in hearing, speech,
tone, look, morality, and duty, as their most lifelike and unconscious
parody--but with which, nevertheless, _great earnestness_ perhaps alone
begins, the first note of interrogation is affixed, the fate of the
soul changes, the hour hand moves, and tragedy begins."



3


Has any one at the end of the nineteenth century any distinct notion
of what poets of a stronger age understood by the word inspiration?
If not, I will describe it. If one had the smallest vestige of
superstition left in one, it would hardly be possible completely to
set aside the idea that one is the mere incarnation, mouthpiece, or
medium of an almighty power. The idea of revelation, in the sense
that something which profoundly convulses and upsets one becomes
suddenly visible and audible with indescribable certainty and
accuracy--describes the simple fact. One hears--one does not seek; one
takes--one does not ask who gives: a thought suddenly flashes up like
lightning, it comes with necessity, without faltering--I have never had
any choice in the matter. There is an ecstasy so great that the immense
strain of it is sometimes relaxed by a flood of tears, during which
one's steps now involuntarily rush and anon involuntarily lag. There
is the feeling that one is utterly out of hand, with the very distinct
consciousness of an endless number of fine thrills and titillations
descending to one's very toes;--there is a depth of happiness in which
the most painful and gloomy parts do not act as antitheses to the rest,
but are produced and required as necessary shades of colour in such an
overflow of light. There is an instinct for rhythmic relations which
embraces a whole world of forms (length, the need of a wide-embracing
rhythm, is almost the measure of the force of an inspiration, a sort
of counterpart to its pressure and tension). Everything happens
quite involuntarily, as if in a tempestuous outburst of freedom,
of absoluteness, of power and divinity. The involuntary nature of
the figures and similes is the most remarkable thing; one loses all
perception of what is imagery and metaphor; everything seems to present
itself as the readiest, the truest, and simplest means of expression.
It actually seems, to use one of Zarathustra's own phrases, as if all
things came to one, and offered themselves as similes. ("Here do all
things come caressingly to thy discourse and flatter thee, for they
would fain ride upon thy back. On every simile thou ridest here unto
every truth. Here fly open unto thee all the speech and word shrines
of the world, here would all existence become speech, here would
all Becoming learn of thee how to speak.") This is my experience of
inspiration. I do not doubt but that I should have to go back thousands
of years before I could find another who could say to me: "It is mine
also!"



4


For a few weeks afterwards I lay an invalid in Genoa. Then followed
a melancholy spring in Rome, where I only just managed to live--and
this was no easy matter. This city, which is absolutely unsuited to
the poet-author of _Zarathustra,_ and for the choice of which I was
not responsible, made me inordinately miserable. I tried to leave it.
I wanted to go to Aquila--the opposite of Rome in every respect, and
actually founded in a spirit of hostility towards that city, just as
I also shall found a city some day, as a memento of an atheist and
genuine enemy of the Church, a person very closely related to me, the
great Hohenstaufen, the Emperor Frederick II. But Fate lay behind it
all: I had to return again to Rome. In the end I was obliged to be
satisfied with the Piazza Barberini, after I had exerted myself in
vain to find an anti-Christian quarter. I fear that on one occasion,
to avoid bad smells as much as possible, I actually inquired at the
Palazzo del Quirinale whether they could not provide a quiet room for
a philosopher. In a chamber high above the Piazza just mentioned, from
which one obtained a general view of Rome, and could hear the fountains
plashing far below, the loneliest of all songs was composed--"The
Night-Song." About this time I was obsessed by an unspeakably sad
melody, the refrain of which I recognised in the affords, "dead through
immortality," ... In the summer, finding myself once more in the sacred
place where the first thought of _Zarathustra_ flashed like a light
across my mind, I conceived the second part. Ten days sufficed. Neither
for the second, the first, nor the third part, have I required a day
longer. In the ensuing winter, beneath the halcyon sky of Nice, which
then for the first time poured its light into my life, I found the
third _Zarathustra_--and came to the end of my task: the whole having
occupied me scarcely a year. Many hidden corners and heights in the
country round about Nice are hallowed for me by moments that I can
never forget. That decisive chapter, entitled "Old and New Tables,"
was composed during the arduous ascent from the station to Eza--that
wonderful Moorish village in the rocks. During those moments when my
creative energy flowed most plentifully, my muscular activity was
always greatest. The body is inspired: let us waive the question of
"soul." I might often have been seen dancing in those days, and I could
then walk for seven or eight hours on end over the hills without a
suggestion of fatigue. I slept well and laughed a good deal--I was
perfectly robust and patient.



5


With the exception of these periods of industry lasting ten days, the
years I spent during the production of _Zarathustra,_ and thereafter,
were for me years of unparalleled distress. A man pays dearly for
being immortal: to this end he must die many times over during his
life. There is such a thing as what I call the rancour of greatness:
everything great, whether a work or a deed, once it is completed, turns
immediately against its author. The very fact that he is its author
makes him weak at this time. He can no longer endure his deed. He can
no longer look it full in the face. To have something at one's back
which one could never have willed, something to which the knot of human
destiny is attached--and to be forced thenceforward to bear it on one's
shoulders! Why, it almost crushes one! The rancour of greatness! A
somewhat different experience is the uncanny silence that reigns about
one. Solitude has seven skins which nothing can penetrate. One goes
among men; one greets friends: but these things are only new deserts,
the looks of those one meets no longer bear a greeting. At the best
one encounters a sort of revolt. This feeling of revolt, I suffered,
in varying degrees of intensity, at the hands of almost every one who
came near me; it would seem that nothing inflicts a deeper wound than
suddenly to make one's distance felt. Those noble natures are scarce
who know not how to live unless they can revere. A third thing is
the absurd susceptibility of the skin to small pin-pricks, a kind of
helplessness in the presence of all small things. This seems to me a
necessary outcome of the appalling expenditure of all defensive forces,
which is the first condition of every _creative_ act, of every act
which proceeds from the most intimate, most secret, and most concealed
recesses of a man's being. The small defensive forces are thus, as it
were, suspended, and no fresh energy reaches them. I even think it
probable that one does not digest so well, that one is less willing
to move, and that one is much too open to sensations of coldness and
suspicion; for, in a large number of cases, suspicion is merely a
blunder in etiology. On one occasion when I felt like this I became
conscious of the proximity of a herd of cows, some time before I could
possibly have seen it with my eyes, simply owing to a return in me of
milder and more humane sentiments: _they_ communicated warmth to me....



6


This work stands alone. Do not let us mention the poets in the
same breath; nothing perhaps has ever been produced out of such a
superabundance of strength. My concept "Dionysian" here became the
_highest_ deed; compared with it everything that other men have done
seems poor and limited. The fact that a Goethe or a Shakespeare would
not for an instant have known how to take breath in this atmosphere of
passion and of the heights; the fact that by the side of Zarathustra,
Dante is no more than a believer, and not one who first _creates_ the
truth--that is to say, not a world-ruling spirit, a _Fate_; the fact
that the poets of the Veda were priests and not even fit to unfasten
Zarathustra's sandal--all this is the least of things, and gives no
idea of the distance, of the azure solitude, in which this work dwells.
Zarathustra has an eternal right to say: "I draw around me circles and
holy boundaries. Ever fewer are they that mount with me to ever loftier
heights. I build me a mountain range of ever holier mountains." If all
the spirit and goodness of every great soul were collected together,
the whole could not create a single one of Zarathustra's discourses.
The ladder upon which he rises and descends is of boundless length;
he has seen further, he has willed further, and _gone_ further than
any other man. There is contradiction in every word that he utters,
this most yea-saying of all spirits. Through him all contradictions
are bound up into a new unity. The loftiest and the basest powers of
human nature, the sweetest, the lightest, and the most terrible, rush
forth from out one spring with everlasting certainty. Until his coming
no one knew what was height, or depth, and still less what was truth.
There is not a single passage in this revelation of truth which had
already been anticipated and divined by even the greatest among men.
Before Zarathustra there was no wisdom, no probing of the soul, no art
of speech: in his book, the most familiar and most vulgar thing utters
unheard-of words. The sentence quivers with passion. Eloquence has
become music. Forks of lightning are hurled towards futures of which
no one has ever dreamed before. The most powerful use of parables that
has yet existed is poor beside it, and mere child's-play compared with
this return of language to the nature of imagery. See how Zarathustra
goes down from the mountain and speaks the kindest words to every
one! See with what delicate fingers he touches his very adversaries,
the priests, and how he suffers with them from themselves! Here, at
every moment, man is overcome, and the concept "Superman" becomes the
greatest reality,--out of sight, almost far away beneath him, lies
all that which heretofore has been called great in man. The halcyonic
brightness, the light feet, the presence of wickedness and exuberance
throughout, and all that is the essence of the type Zarathustra, was
never dreamt of before as a prerequisite of greatness. In precisely
these limits of space and in this accessibility to opposites
Zarathustra feels himself the _highest of all living things_: and when
you hear how he defines this highest, you will give up trying to find
his equal.

"The soul which hath the longest ladder and can step down deepest,

"The vastest soul that can run and stray and rove furthest in its own
domain,

"The most necessary soul, that out of desire flingeth itself to chance,

"The stable soul that plungeth into Becoming, the possessing soul that
must needs taste of willing and longing,

"The soul that flyeth from itself, and over-taketh itself in the widest
circle,

"The wisest soul that folly exhorteth most sweetly,

"The most self-loving soul, in whom all things have their rise, their
ebb and flow."

But this is the very idea of Dionysus. Another consideration leads
to this idea. The psychological problem presented by the type of
Zarathustra is, how can he, who in an unprecedented manner says
no, and _acts_ no, in regard to all that which has been affirmed
hitherto, remain nevertheless a yea-saying spirit? how can he who
bears the heaviest destiny on his shoulders and whose very life-task
is a fatality, yet be the brightest and the most transcendental
of spirits--for Zarathustra is a dancer? how can he who has the
hardest and most terrible grasp of reality, and who has thought the
most "abysmal thoughts," nevertheless avoid conceiving these things
as objections to existence, or even as objections to the eternal
recurrence of existence?--how is it that on the contrary he finds
reasons for _being himself_ the eternal affirmation of all things, "the
tremendous and unlimited saying of Yea and Amen"?... "Into every abyss
do I bear the benediction of my yea to Life." ... But this, once more,
is precisely the idea of Dionysus.



7


What language will such a spirit speak, when he speaks unto his soul?
The language of the _dithyramb._ I am the inventor of the dithyramb.
Hearken unto the manner in which Zarathustra speaks to his soul _Before
Sunrise_ (iii. 48). Before my time such emerald joys and divine
tenderness had found no tongue. Even the profoundest melancholy of
such a Dionysus takes shape as a dithyramb. As an example of this I
take "The Night-Song,"--the immortal plaint of one who, thanks to his
superabundance of light and power, thanks to the sun within him, is
condemned never to love.

"It is night: now do all gushing springs raise their voices. And my
soul too is a gushing spring.

"It is night: now only do all lovers burst into song. And my soul too
is the song of a lover.

"Something unquenched and unquenchable is within me, that would raise
its voice. A craving for love is within me, which itself speaketh the
language of love.

"Light am I: would that I were night! But this is my loneliness, that I
am begirt with light.

"Alas, why am I not dark and like unto the night! How joyfully would I
then suck at the breasts of light!

"And even you would I bless, ye twinkling starlets and glow-worms on
high! and be blessed in the gifts of your light.

"But in mine own light do I live, ever back into myself do I drink the
flames I send forth.

"I know not the happiness of the hand stretched forth to grasp; and oft
have I dreamt that stealing must be more blessed than taking.

"Wretched am I that my hand may never rest from giving: an envious fate
is mine that I see expectant eyes and nights made bright with longing.

"Oh, the wretchedness of all them that give! Oh, the clouds that cover
the face of my sun! That craving for desire! that burning hunger at the
end of the feast!

"They take what I give them; but do I touch their soul? A gulf is there
'twixt giving and taking; and the smallest gulf is the last to be
bridged.

"An appetite is born from out my beauty: would that I might do harm to
them that I fill with light; would that I might rob them of the gifts I
have given:--thus do I thirst for wickedness.

"To withdraw my hand when their hand is ready stretched forth like the
waterfall that wavers, wavers even in its fall:--thus do I thirst for
wickedness.

"For such vengeance doth my fulness yearn: to such tricks doth my
loneliness give birth.

"My joy in giving died with the deed. By its very fulness did my virtue
grow weary of itself.

"He who giveth risketh to lose his shame; he that is ever distributing
groweth callous in hand and heart therefrom.

"Mine eyes no longer melt into tears at the sight of the suppliant's
shame; my hand hath become too hard to feel the quivering of laden
hands.

"Whither have ye fled, the tears of mine eyes and the bloom of my
heart? Oh, the solitude of all givers! Oh, the silence of all beacons!

"Many are the suns that circle in barren space; to all that is dark do
they speak with their light--to me alone are they silent.

"Alas, this is the hatred of light for that which shineth: pitiless it
runneth its course.

"Unfair in its inmost heart to that which shineth; cold toward
suns,--thus doth every sun go its way.

"Like a tempest do the suns fly over their course: for such is their
way. Their own unswerving will do they follow: that is their coldness.

"Alas, it is ye alone, ye creatures of gloom, ye spirits of the night,
that take your warmth from that which shineth. Ye alone suck your milk
and comfort from the udders of light.

"Alas, about me there is ice, my hand burneth itself against ice!

"Alas, within me is a thirst that thirsteth for your thirst!

"It is night: woe is me, that I must needs be light! And thirst after
darkness! And loneliness!

"It is night: now doth my longing burst forth like a spring,--for
speech do I long.

"It is night: now do all gushing springs raise their voices. And my
soul too is a gushing spring.

"It is night: now only do all lovers burst into song. And my soul too
is the song of a lover."



8


Such things have never been written, never been felt, never been
_suffered:_ only a God, only Dionysus suffers in this way. The reply
to such a dithyramb on the sun's solitude in light would be Ariadne.
... Who knows, but I, who Ariadne is! To all such riddles no one
heretofore had ever found an answer; I doubt even whether any one had
ever seen a riddle here. One day Zarathustra severely determines his
life-task--and it is also mine. Let no one misunderstand its meaning.
It's a yea-saying to the point of justifying, to the point of redeeming
even all that is past.

"I walk among men as among fragments of the future: of that future
which I see.

"And all my creativeness and effort is but this, that I may be able to
think and recast all these fragments and riddles and dismal accidents
into one piece.

"And how could I bear to be a man, if man were not also a poet, a
riddle reader, and a redeemer of chance!

"To redeem all the past, and to transform every 'it was' into 'thus
would I have it'--that alone would be my salvation!"

In another passage he defines as strictly as possible what to him alone
"man" can be,--not a subject for love nor yet for pity--Zarathustra
became master even of his loathing of man: man is to him a thing
unshaped, raw material, an ugly stone that needs the sculptor's chisel.

"No longer to will, no longer to value, no longer to create! Oh, that
this great weariness may never be mine!

"Even in the lust of knowledge, I feel only the joy of my will to beget
and to grow; and if there be innocence in my knowledge, it is because
my procreative will is in it.

"Away from God and gods did this will lure me: what would there be to
create if there were gods?

"But to man doth it ever drive me anew, my burning, creative will.
Thus driveth it the hammer to the stone.

"Alas, ye men, within the stone there sleepeth an image for me, the
image of all my dreams! Alas, that it should have to sleep in the
hardest and ugliest stone!

"_Now rageth my hammer ruthlessly against its prison._ From the stone
the fragments fly: what's that to me?

"I will finish it: for a shadow came unto me--the stillest and lightest
thing on earth once came unto me!

"The beauty of the Superman came unto me as a shadow. Alas, my
brethren! What are the--gods to me now?"

Let me call attention to one last point of view. The line in italics is
my pretext for this remark. A Dionysian life-task needs the hardness of
the hammer, and one of its first essentials is without doubt the _joy
even of destruction._ The command, "Harden yourselves!" and the deep
conviction that _all creators are hard,_ is the really distinctive sign
of a Dionysian nature.




BEYOND GOOD AND EVIL:


"THE PRELUDE TO A PHILOSOPHY OF THE FUTURE"



1


My work for the years that followed was prescribed as distinctly
as possible. Now that the yea-saying part of my life-task was
accomplished, there came the turn of the negative portion, both in
word and deed: the transvaluation of all values that had existed
hitherto, the great war,--the conjuring-up of the day when the fatal
outcome of the struggle would be decided. Meanwhile, I had slowly to
look about me for my peers, for those who, _out of strength,_ would
proffer me a helping hand in my work of destruction. From that time
onward, all my writings are so much bait: maybe I understand as much
about fishing as most people? If nothing was _caught,_ it was not I who
was at fault _There were no fish to come and bite._



2


In all its essential points, this book (1886) is a criticism of
_modernity,_ embracing the modern sciences, arts, even politics,
together with certain indications as to a type which would be the
reverse of modern man, or as little like him as possible, a noble
and yea-saying type. In this last respect the book is a _school
for gentlemen_--the term _gentleman_ being understood here in a
much more spiritual and radical sense than it has implied hitherto.
All those things of which the age is proud,--as, for instance,
far-famed "objectivity," "sympathy with all that suffers," "the
historical sense," with its subjection to foreign tastes, with its
lying-in-the-dust before _petits faits,_ and the rage for science,--are
shown to be the contradiction of the type recommended, and are
regarded as almost ill-bred. If you remember that this book follows
upon _Zarathustra,_ you may possibly guess to what system of diet it
owes its life. The eye which, owing to tremendous constraint, has
become accustomed to see at a great distance,--_Zarathustra_ is even
more far-sighted than the Tsar,--is here forced to focus sharply that
which is close at hand, the present time, the things that lie about
him. In all the aphorisms and more particularly in the form of this
book, the reader will find the same _voluntary_ turning away from those
instincts which made a _Zarathustra_ a possible feat. Refinement in
form, in aspiration, and in the art of keeping silent, are its more or
less obvious qualities; psychology is handled with deliberate hardness
and cruelty,--the whole book does not contain one single good-natured
word.... All this sort of thing refreshes a man. Who can guess the kind
of recreation that is necessary after such an expenditure of goodness
as is to be found in _Zarathustra_? From a theological standpoint--now
pay ye heed; for it is but on rare occasions that I speak as a
theologian--it was God Himself who, at the end of His great work,
coiled Himself up in the form of a serpent at the foot of the tree of
knowledge. It was thus that He recovered from being a God.... He had
made everything too beautiful.... The devil is simply God's moment of
idleness, on that seventh day.




"THE GENEALOGY OF MORALS: A POLEMIC"


The three essays which constitute this genealogy are, as regards
expression, aspiration, and the art of the unexpected, perhaps the
most curious things that have ever been written. Dionysus, as you know,
is also the god of darkness. In each case the beginning is calculated
to mystify; it is cool, scientific, even ironical, intentionally
thrust to the fore, intentionally reticent. Gradually less calmness
prevails; here and there a flash of lightning defines the horizon;
exceedingly unpleasant truths break upon your ears from out remote
distances with a dull, rumbling sound,--until very soon a fierce tempo
is attained in which everything presses forward at a terrible degree
of tension. At the end, in each case, amid fearful thunderclaps, a new
truth shines out between thick clouds. The truth of the first essays
the psychology of Christianity: the birth of Christianity out of the
spirit of resentment, not, as is supposed, out of the "Spirit,"--in
all its essentials, a counter-movement, the great insurrection against
the dominion of noble values. The second essay contains the psychology
of conscience: this is not, as you may believe, "the voice of God in
man"; it is the instinct of cruelty, which turns inwards once it is
unable to discharge itself outwardly. Cruelty is here exposed, for the
first time, as one of the oldest and most indispensable elements in the
foundation of culture. The third essay replies to the question as to
the origin of the formidable power of the ascetic ideal, of the priest
ideal, despite the fact that this ideal is essentially detrimental,
that it is a will to nonentity and to decadence. Reply: it flourished
not because God was active behind the priests, as is generally
believed, but because it was a _faute de mieux_--from the fact that
hitherto it has been the only ideal and has had no competitors. "For
man prefers to aspire to nonentity than not to aspire at all." But
above all, until the time of _Zarathustra_ there was no such thing
as a counter-ideal. You have understood my meaning. Three decisive
overtures on the part of a psychologist to a _Transvaluation of all
Values._--This book contains the first psychology of the priest.




"THE TWILIGHT OF THE IDOLS:

HOW TO PHILOSOPHISE WITH THE HAMMER"



1


This work--which covers scarcely one hundred and fifty pages, with its
cheerful and fateful tone, like a laughing demon, and the production
of which occupied so few days that I hesitate to give their number--is
altogether an exception among books: there is no work more rich in
substance, more independent, more upsetting--more wicked. If any one
should desire to obtain a rapid sketch of how everything, before my
time, was standing on its head, he should begin reading me in this
book. That which is called "Idols" on the title page is simply the
old truth that has been believed in hitherto. In plain English, _The
Twilight of the Idols_ means that the old truth is on its last legs.



2


There is no reality, no "ideality," which has not been touched in
this book (touched! what a cautious euphemism!). Not only the eternal
idols, but also the youngest--that is to say, the most senile: modern
ideas, for instance. A strong wind blows between the trees and in
all directions fall the fruit--the truths. There is the waste of an
all-too-rich autumn in this book: you trip over truths. You even crush
some to death, there are too many of them. Those things that you can
grasp, however, are quite unquestionable; they are irrevocable decrees.
I alone have the criterion of "truths" in my possession. I alone _can_
decide. It would seem as if a second consciousness had grown up in me,
as if the "life-will" in me had thrown a light upon the downward path
along which it has been running throughout the ages. The _downward
path_--hitherto this had been called the road to "Truth." All obscure
impulse--"darkness and dismay"--is at an end, the "_good man_" was
precisely he who was least aware of the proper way.[1] And, speaking
in all earnestness, no one before me knew the proper way, the way
upwards: only after my time could men once more find hope, life-tasks,
and roads mapped out that lead to culture--_I am the joyful harbinger
of this culture._ ... On this account alone I am also a fatality.



3


Immediately after the completion of the above-named work, and without
letting even one day go by, I tackled the formidable task of the
_Transvaluation_ with a supreme feeling of pride which nothing could
equal; and, certain at each moment of my immortality, I cut sign after
sign upon tablets of brass with the sureness of Fate. The Preface
came into being on 3rd September 1888. When, after having written it
down, I went out into the open that morning, I was greeted by the most
beautiful day I had ever seen in the Upper Engadine--clear, glowing
with colour, and presenting all the contrasts and all the intermediary
gradations between ice and the south. I left Sils-Maria only on the
20th of September. I had been forced to delay my departure owing to
floods, and I was very soon, and for some days, the only visitor in
this wonderful spot, on which my gratitude bestows the gift of an
immortal name. After a journey that was full of incidents, and not
without danger to life,--as for instance at Como, which was flooded
when I reached it in the dead of night,--I got to Turin on the
afternoon of the 21 st. Turin is the only suitable place for me, and
it shall be my home henceforward. I took the same lodgings as I had
occupied in the spring, 6111 Via Carlo Alberto, opposite the mighty
Palazzo Carignano, in which Vittorio Emanuele was born; and I had a
view of the Piazza Carlo Alberto and above it across to the hills.
Without hesitating, or allowing myself to be disturbed for a single
moment, I returned to my work, only the last quarter of which had still
to be written. On the 30th September, tremendous triumph; the seventh
day; the leisure of a god on the banks of the Po.[2] On the same day,
I wrote the Preface to _The Twilight of the Idols,_ the correction of
the proofs of which provided me with recreation during the month of
September. Never in my life have I experienced such an autumn; nor
had I ever imagined that such things were possible on earth--a Claude
Lorrain extended to infinity, each day equal to the last in its wild
perfection.


[Footnote 1: A witty reference to Goethe's well-known passage in the
Prologue to _Faust_:--

"A good man, though in darkness and dismay,
May still be conscious of the proper way."

The words are spoken by the Lord.--TR. ]

[Footnote 2: There is a wonderful promenade along the banks of the Po,
for which Turin is famous, and of which Nietzsche was particularly
fond.--TR.]




"THE CASE OF WAGNER: A MUSICIAN'S PROBLEM"



1


In order to do justice to this essay a man ought to suffer from the
fate of music as from an open wound.--From what do I suffer when I
suffer from the fate of music? From the fact that music has lost
its world-transfiguring, yea-saying character--that it is decadent
music and no longer the flute of Dionysus. Supposing, however, that
the fate of music be as dear to man as his own life, because joy and
suffering are alike bound up with it; then he will find this pamphlet
comparatively mild and full of consideration. To be cheerful in
such circumstances, and laugh good-naturedly with others at one's
self,--_ridendodicere severum_[1] when the _verum dicere_ would
justify every sort of hardness,--is humanity itself. Who doubts that
I, old artillery-man that I am, would be able if I liked to point my
_heavy_ guns at Wagner?--Everything decisive in this question I kept
to myself--I have loved Wagner.--After all, an attack upon a more than
usually subtle "unknown person" whom another would not have divined
so easily, lies in the meaning and path of my life-task. Oh, I have
still quite a number of other "unknown persons" to unmask besides a
Cagliostro of Music! Above all, I have to direct an attack against
the German people, who, in matters of the spirit, grow every day
more indolent, poorer in instincts, and more _honest_ who, with an
appetite for which they are to be envied, continue to diet themselves
on contradictions, and gulp down "Faith" in company with science,
Christian love together with anti-Semitism, and the will to power (to
the "Empire"), dished up with the gospel of the humble, without showing
the slightest signs of indigestion. Fancy this absence of party-feeling
in the presence of opposites! Fancy this gastric neutrality and
"disinterestedness"! Behold this sense of justice in the German palate,
which can grant equal rights to all,--which finds everything tasteful!
Without a shadow of a doubt the Germans are idealists. When I was last
in Germany, I found German taste striving to grant Wagner and the
_Trumpeter of Sakkingen_[2] equal rights; while I myself witnessed
the attempts of the people of Leipzig to do honour to one of the most
genuine and most German of musicians,--using German here in the old
sense of the word,--a man who was no mere German of the Empire, the
master Heinrich Schütz, by founding a Liszt Society, the object of
which was to cultivate and spread artful (_listige_[3]) Church music.
Without a shadow of doubt the Germans are idealists.



2


But here nothing shall stop me from being rude, and from telling the
Germans one or two unpleasant home truths: who else would do it if I
did not? I refer to their laxity in matters historical. Not only have
the Germans entirely lost the _breadth of vision_ which enables one
to grasp the course of culture and the values of culture; not only
are they one and all political (or Church) puppets; but they have
also actually _put a ban upon_ this very breadth of vision. A man
must first and foremost be "German," he must belong to "_the_ race";
then only can he pass judgment upon all values and lack of values
in history--then only can he establish them.... To be German is in
itself an argument, "Germany, Germany above all,"[4] is a principle;
the Germans stand for the "moral order of the universe" in history;
compared with the Roman Empire, they are the up-holders of freedom;
compared with the eighteenth century, they are the restorers of
morality, of the "Categorical Imperative." There is such a thing as
the writing of history according to the lights of Imperial Germany;
there is, I fear, anti-Semitic history--there is also history written
with an eye to the Court, and Herr von Treitschke is not ashamed
of himself. Quite recently an idiotic opinion _in historicis,_ an
observation of Vischer the Swabian æsthete, since happily deceased,
made the round of the German newspapers as a "truth" to which every
German _must assent_ The observation was this: "The Renaissance _and_
the Reformation only together constitute a whole--the æsthetic
rebirth, and the moral rebirth." When I listen to such things, I lose
all patience, and I feel inclined, I even feel it my duty, to tell the
Germans, for once in a way, all that they have on their conscience.
_Every great crime against culture for the last four centuries lies
on their conscience...._ And always for the same reason, always owing
to their bottomless cowardice in the face of reality, which is also
cowardice in the face of truth; always owing to the love of falsehood
which has become almost instinctive in them--in short, "idealism."
It was the Germans who caused Europe to lose the fruits, the whole
meaning of her last period of greatness--the period of the Renaissance.
At a moment when a higher order of values, values that were noble,
that said yea to life, and that guaranteed a future, had succeeded
in triumphing over the opposite values, the values of degeneration,
in the very seat of Christianity itself,--and _even in the hearts of
those sitting there,_--Luther, that cursed monk, not only restored the
Church, but, what was a thousand times worse, restored Christianity,
and at a time too when it lay defeated. Christianity, the _Denial of
the Will to Live,_ exalted to a religion! Luther was an impossible
monk who, thanks to his own "impossibility," attacked the Church,
and in so doing restored it! Catholics would be perfectly justified
in celebrating feasts in honour of Luther, and in producing festival
plays[5] in his honour. Luther and the "rebirth of morality"! May all
psychology go to the devil! Without a shadow of a doubt the Germans
are idealists. On two occasions when, at the cost of enormous courage
and self-control, an upright, unequivocal, and perfectly scientific
attitude of mind had been attained, the Germans were able to discover
back stairs leading down to the old "ideal" again, compromises between
truth and the "ideal," and, in short, formulæ for the right to reject
science and to perpetrate falsehoods. Leibniz and Kant--these two
great breaks upon the intellectual honesty of Europe! Finally, at a
moment when there appeared on the bridge that spanned two centuries
of decadence, a superior force of genius and will which was strong
enough to consolidate Europe and to convert it into a political and
economic unit, with the object of ruling the world, the Germans, with
their Wars of Independence, robbed Europe of the significance--the
marvellous significance, of Napoleon's life. And in so doing they laid
on their conscience everything that followed, everything that exists
to-day,--this sickliness and want of reason which is most opposed to
culture, and which is called Nationalism,--this _névrose nationale_
from which Europe is suffering acutely; this eternal subdivision of
Europe into petty states, with politics on a municipal scale: they have
robbed Europe itself of its significance, of its reason,--and have
stuffed it into a cul-de-sac. Is there any one except me who knows the
way out of this cul-de-sac? Does anyone except me know of an aspiration
which would be great enough to bind the people of Europe once more
together?



3


And after all, why should I not express my suspicions? In my case,
too, the Germans will attempt to make a great fate give birth merely
to a mouse. Up to the present they have compromised themselves with
me; I doubt whether the future will improve them. Alas! how happy I
should be to prove a false prophet in this matter! My natural readers
and listeners are already Russians, Scandinavians, and Frenchmen--will
they always be the same? In the history of knowledge, Germans are
represented only by doubtful names, they have been able to produce only
"_unconscious_" swindlers (this word applies to Fichte, Schelling,
Schopenhauer, Hegel, and Schleiermacher, just as well as to Kant or
Leibniz; they were all mere _Schleiermachers_).[6] The Germans must
not have the honour of seeing the first upright intellect in their
history of intellects, that intellect in which truth ultimately got the
better of the fraud of four thousand years, reckoned as one with the
German intellect. "German intellect" is my foul air: I breathe with
difficulty in the neighbourhood of this psychological uncleanliness
that has now become instinctive--an uncleanliness which in every
word and expression betrays a German. They have never undergone a
seventeenth century of hard self-examination, as the French have,--a
La Rochefoucauld, a Descartes, are a thousand times more upright
than the very first among Germans,--the latter have not yet had any
psychologists. But psychology is almost the standard of measurement
for the cleanliness or uncleanliness of a race.... For if a man is
not even clean, how can he be deep? The Germans are like women, you
can scarcely ever I fathom their depths--they haven't any, and that's
the end of it. Thus they cannot even be called shallow. That which is
called "deep" in Germany, is precisely this instinctive uncleanliness
towards one's self, of which I have just spoken: people refuse to be
clear in regard to their own natures. Might I be allowed, perhaps, to
suggest the word "German" as an international epithet denoting this
psychological depravity?--At the moment of writing, for instance, the
German Emperor is declaring it to be his Christian duty to liberate
the slaves in Africa; among us Europeans, then, this would be called
simply "German." ... Have the Germans ever produced even a book that
had depth? They are lacking in the mere idea of what constitutes a
book. I have known scholars who thought that Kant was deep. At the
Court of Prussia I fear that Herr von Treitschke is regarded as deep.
And when I happen to praise Stendhal as a deep psychologist, I have
often been compelled, in the company of German University Professors,
to spell his name aloud.



4


And why should I not proceed to the end? I am fond of clearing the
air. It is even part of my ambition to be considered as essentially a
despiser of Germans. I expressed my suspicions of the German character
even at the age of six-and-twenty (see _Thoughts out of Season,_
vol. ii. pp. 164, 165),--to my mind the Germans are impossible.
When I try to think of the kind of man who is opposed to me in all
my instincts, my mental image takes the form of a German. The first
thing I ask myself when I begin analysing a man, is, whether he has a
feeling for distance in him; whether he sees rank, gradation, and order
everywhere between man and man; whether he makes distinctions; for
this is what constitutes a gentleman. Otherwise he belongs hopelessly
to that open-hearted, open-minded--alas! and always very good-natured
species, _la canaille_! But the Germans are _canaille_--alas! they are
so good-natured! A man lowers himself by frequenting the society of
Germans: the German places every one on an equal footing. With the
exception of my intercourse with one or two artists, and above all
with Richard Wagner, I cannot say that I have spent one pleasant hour
with Germans. Suppose, for one moment, that the profoundest spirit
of all ages were to appear among Germans, then one of the saviours
of the Capitol would be sure to arise and declare that his own ugly
soul was just as great. I can no longer abide this race with which
a man is always in bad company, which; has no idea of nuances--woe
to me! I am a nuance--and which has not _esprit_ in its feet, and
cannot even walk withal! In short, the Germans have no feet at all,
they simply have legs. The Germans have not the faintest idea of how
vulgar they are--but this in itself is the acme of vulgarity,--they are
not even ashamed of being merely Germans. They will have their say in
everything, they regard themselves as fit to decide all questions; I
even fear that they have decided about me. My whole life is essentially
a proof of this remark. In vain have I sought among them for a sign of
tact and delicacy towards myself. Among Jews I did indeed find it, but
not among Germans. I am so constituted as to be gentle and kindly to
every one,--I have the right not to draw distinctions,--but this does
not prevent my eyes from being open. I except no one, and least of all
my friends,--I only trust that this has not prejudiced my reputation
for humanity among them? There are five or six things which I have
always made points of honour. Albeit, the truth remains that for many
years I have considered almost every letter that has reached me as a
piece of cynicism. There is more cynicism in an attitude of goodwill
towards me than in any sort of hatred. I tell every friend to his face
that he has never thought it worth his while to _study_ any one of my
writings: from the slightest hints I gather that they do not even know
what lies hidden in my books. And with regard even to my _Zarathustra,_
which of my friends would have seen more in it than a piece of
unwarrantable, though fortunately harmless, arrogance? Ten years have
elapsed, and no one has yet felt it a duty to his conscience to defend
my name against the absurd silence beneath which it has been entombed.
It was a foreigner, a Dane, who first showed sufficient keenness of
instinct and of courage to do this, and who protested indignantly
against my so-called friends. At what German University to-day would
such lectures on my philosophy be possible, as those which Dr. Brandes
delivered last spring in Copenhagen, thus proving once more his right
to the title psychologist? For my part, these things have never caused
me any pain; that which is _necessary_ does not offend me. _Amor fati_
is the core of my nature. This, however, does not alter the fact that
I love irony and even world-historic irony. And thus, about two years
before hurling the destructive thunderbolt of the _Transvaluation,_
which will send the whole of civilisation into convulsions, I sent
my _Case of Wagner_ out into the world. The Germans were given the
chance of blundering and immortalising their stupidity once more on my
account, and they still have just enough time to do it in. And have
they fallen in with my plans? Admirably! my dear Germans. Allow me to
congratulate you.



[Footnote 1: The motto of _The Case of Wagner._--TR.]

[Footnote 2: An opera by Nessler which was all the rage in Germany
twenty years ago.--TR.]

[Footnote 3: Unfortunately it is impossible to render this play on the
words in English.--TR.]

[Footnote 4: The German National Song (_Deutschland, Deutschland über
alles_).--TR.]

[Footnote 5: Ever since the year 1617 such plays have been produced by
the Protestants of Germany.--TR.]

[Footnote 6: _Schleiermacher_ literally means a weaver or maker of
veils.--TR.]




WHY I AM A FATALITY



1


I know my destiny. There will come a day $ when my name will recall
the memory of something formidable--a crisis the like of which has
never been known on earth, the memory of the most profound clash
of consciences, and the passing of a sentence upon all that which
theretofore had been believed, exacted, and hallowed. I am not a
man, I am dynamite. And with it all there is nought of the founder
of a religion in me. Religions are matters for the mob; after coming
in contact with a religious man, I always feel that I must wash my
hands.... I require no "believers," it is my opinion that I am too
full of malice to believe even in myself; I never address myself to
masses. I am horribly frightened that one day I shall be pronounced
"holy." You will understand why I publish this book beforehand--it is
to prevent people from wronging me. I refuse to be a saint; I would
rather be a clown. Maybe I am a clown. And I am notwithstanding, or
rather not _not_withstanding, the mouthpiece of truth; for nothing
more blown-out with falsehood has ever existed, than a saint. But
my truth is terrible: for hitherto _lies_ have been called truth.
_The Transvaluation of all Values,_ this is my formula for mankind's
greatest step towards coming to its senses--a step which in me became
flesh and genius. My destiny ordained that I should be the first decent
human being, and that I should feel myself opposed to the falsehood
of millenniums. I was the first to discover truth, and for the simple
reason that I was the first who became conscious of falsehood as
falsehood--that is to say, I smelt it as such. My genius resides in
my nostrils. I contradict as no one has contradicted hitherto, and am
nevertheless the reverse of a negative spirit. I am the harbinger of
joy, the like of which has never existed before; I have discovered
tasks of such lofty greatness that, until my time, no one had any idea
of such things. Mankind can begin to have fresh hopes, only now that I
have lived. Thus, I am necessarily a man of Fate. For when Truth enters
the lists against the falsehood of ages, shocks are bound to ensue,
and a spell of earthquakes, followed by the transposition of hills and
valleys, such as the world has never yet imagined even in its dreams.
The concept "politics" then becomes elevated entirely to the sphere
of spiritual warfare. All the mighty realms of the ancient order of
society are blown into space--for they are all based on falsehood:
there will be wars, the like of which have never been seen on earth
before. Only from my time and after me will politics on a large scale
exist on earth.



2


If you should require a formula for a destiny of this kind that has
taken human form, you will find it in my _Zarathustra_.

"And he who would be a creator in good and evil--verily, he must first
be a destroyer, and break values into pieces.

"Thus the greatest evil belongeth unto the greatest good: but this is
the creative good."

I am by far the most terrible man that has ever existed; but this does
not alter the fact that I shall become the most beneficent. I know the
joy of _annihilation_ to a degree which is commensurate with my power
to annihilate. In both cases I obey my Dionysian nature, which knows
not how to separate the negative deed from the saying of yea. I am the
first immoralist, and in this sense I am essentially the annihilator.



3


People have never asked me as they should have done, what the name
of Zarathustra precisely meant in my mouth, in the mouth of the
first immoralist; for that which distinguishes this Persian from all
others in the past is the very fact that he was the exact reverse
of an immoralist. Zarathustra was the first to see in the struggle
between good and evil the essential wheel in the working of things.
The translation of morality into the realm of metaphysics, as force,
cause, end-in-itself, is his work. But the very question suggests
its own answer. Zarathustra created this most portentous of all
errors,--morality; therefore he must be the first to expose it. Not
only because he has had longer and greater experience of the subject
than any other thinker,--all history is indeed the experimental
refutation of the theory of the so-called moral order of things,--but
because of the more important fact that Zarathustra was the most
truthful of thinkers. In his teaching alone is truthfulness upheld as
the highest virtue--that is to say, as the reverse of the cowardice
of the "idealist" who takes to his heels at the sight of reality.
Zarathustra has more pluck in his body than all other thinkers put
together. To tell the truth and to aim straight: that is the first
Persian virtue. Have I made myself clear? ... The overcoming of
morality by itself, through truthfulness, the moralist's overcoming of
himself in his opposite--in me--that is what the name Zarathustra means
in my mouth.



4


In reality two negations are involved in my title Immoralist. I first
of all deny the type of man that has hitherto been regarded as the
highest--the _good,_ the _kind,_ and the _charitable_; and I also
deny that kind of morality which has become recognised and paramount
as morality-in-itself--I speak of the morality of decadence, or, to
use a still cruder term, Christian morality. I would agree to the
second of the two negations being regarded as the more decisive, for,
reckoned as a whole, the overestimation of goodness and kindness seems
to me already a consequence of decadence, a symptom of weakness, and
incompatible with any ascending and yea-saying life. Negation and
annihilation are inseparable from a yea-saying attitude towards life.
Let me halt for a moment at the question of the psychology of the
good man. In order to appraise the value of a certain type of man, the
cost of his maintenance must be calculated,--and the conditions of his
existence must be known. The condition of the existence of the _good_
is falsehood: or, otherwise expressed, the refusal at any price to
see how reality is actually constituted. The refusal to see that this
reality is not so constituted as always to be stimulating beneficent
instincts, and still less, so as to suffer at all moments the intrusion
of ignorant and good-natured hands. To consider distress of all kinds
as an objection, as something which must be done away with, is the
greatest nonsense on earth; generally speaking, it is nonsense of the
most disastrous sort, fatal in its stupidity--almost as mad as the will
to abolish bad weather, out of pity for the poor, so to speak. In the
great economy of the whole universe, the terrors of reality (in the
passions, in the desires, in the will to power) are incalculably more
necessary than that form of petty happiness which is called "goodness";
it is even needful to practise leniency in order so much as to allow
the latter a place at all, seeing that it is based upon a falsification
of the instincts. I shall have an excellent opportunity of showing the
incalculably calamitous consequences to the whole of history, of the
credo of optimism, this monstrous offspring of the _homines optimi._
Zarathustra,[1] the first who recognised that the optimist is just as
degenerate as the pessimist, though perhaps more detrimental, says:
"_Good men never speak the truth. False shores and false harbours
were ye taught by the good. In the lies of the good were ye born and
bred. Through the good everything hath become false and crooked from
the roots._" Fortunately the world is not built merely upon those
instincts which would secure to the good-natured herd animal his paltry
happiness. To desire everybody to become a "good man," "a gregarious
animal," "a blue-eyed, benevolent, beautiful soul," or--as Herbert
Spencer wished--a creature of altruism, would mean robbing existence of
its greatest character, castrating man, and reducing humanity to a sort
of wretched Chinadom. _And this some have tried to do! It is precisely
this that men called morality._ In this sense Zarathustra calls "the
good," now "the last men," and anon "the beginning of the end"; and
above all, he considers them as _the most detrimental kind of men,_
because they secure their existence at the cost of Truth and at the
cost of the Future.

"The good--they cannot create; they are ever the beginning of the end.

"They crucify him who writeth new values on new tables; they sacrifice
_unto themselves_ the future; they crucify the whole future of humanity!

"The good--they are ever the beginning of the end.

"And whatever harm the slanderers of the world may do, _the harm of the
good is the most calamitous of all harm._"



5


Zarathustra, as the first psychologist of the good man, is perforce the
friend of the evil man. When a degenerate kind of man has succeeded
to the highest rank among the human species, his position must have
been gained at the cost of the reverse type--at the cost of the strong
man who is certain of life. When the gregarious animal stands in
the glorious rays of the purest virtue, the exceptional man must be
degraded to the rank of the evil. If falsehood insists at all costs on
claiming the word "truth" for its own particular standpoint, the really
truthful man must be sought out among the despised. Zarathustra allows
of no doubt here; he says that it was precisely the knowledge of the
good, of the "best," which inspired his absolute horror of men. And
it was out of this feeling of repulsion that he grew the wings which
allowed him to soar into remote futures. He does not conceal the fact
that his type of man is one which is relatively superhuman--especially
as opposed to the "good" man, and that the good and the just would
regard his superman as the _devil._

"Ye higher men, on whom my gaze now falls, this is the doubt that ye
wake in my breast, and this is my secret laughter: methinks ye would
call my Superman--the devil! So strange are ye in your souls to all
that is great, that the Superman would be terrible in your eyes for his
goodness."

It is from this passage, and from no other, that you must set out to
understand the goal to which Zarathustra aspires--the kind of man that
he conceives sees reality _as it is;_ he is strong enough for this--he
is not estranged or far removed from it, he is that reality himself, in
his own nature can be found all the terrible and questionable character
of reality: _only thus can man have greatness._



6


But I have chosen the title of Immoral is t as a surname and as a badge
of honour in yet another sense; I am very proud to possess this name
which distinguishes me from all the rest of mankind. No one hitherto
has felt Christian morality beneath him; to that end there were needed
height, a remoteness of vision, and an abysmal psychological depth, not
believed to be possible hitherto. Up to the present Christian morality
has been the Circe of all thinkers--they stood at her service. What
man, before my time, had descended into the underground caverns from
out of which the poisonous fumes of this ideal--of this slandering
of the world--burst forth? What man had even dared to suppose that
they were underground caverns? Was a single one of the philosophers
who preceded me a psychologist at all, and not the very reverse of a
psychologist--that is to say, a "superior swindler," an "Idealist"?
Before my time there was no psychology. To be the first in this new
realm may amount to a curse; at all events, it is a fatality: _for one
is also the first to despise._ My danger is the loathing of mankind.



7


Have you understood me? That which defines me, that which makes me
stand apart from the whole of the rest of humanity, is the fact that
I _unmasked_ Christian morality. For this reason I was in need of a
word which conveyed the idea of a challenge to everybody. Not to have
awakened to these discoveries before, struck me as being the sign
of the greatest uncleanliness that mankind has on its conscience,
as self-deception become instinctive, as the fundamental will to
be blind to every phenomenon, all causality and all reality; in
fact, as an almost criminal fraud _in psychologicis._ Blindness in
regard to Christianity is the essence of criminality--for it is the
crime _against_ life. Ages and peoples, the first as well as the
last, philosophers and old women, with the exception of five or six
moments in history (and of myself, the seventh), are all alike in
this. Hitherto the Christian has been _the_ "moral being," a peerless
oddity, and, _as_ "a moral being," he was more absurd, more vain, more
thoughtless, and a greater disadvantage to himself, than the greatest
despiser of humanity could have deemed possible. Christian morality
is the most malignant form of all false too the actual Circe of
humanity: that which has corrupted mankind. It is not error as error
which infuriates me at the sight of this spectacle; it is not the
millenniums of absence of "goodwill," of discipline, of decency, and
of bravery in spiritual things, which betrays itself in the triumph of
Christianity; it is rather the absence of nature, it is the perfectly
ghastly fact that _anti-nature_ itself received the highest honours as
morality and as law, and remained suspended over man as the Categorical
Imperative. Fancy blundering in this way, _not_ as an individual,
_not_ as a people, but as a whole species! as _humanity_! To teach the
contempt of all the principal instincts of life; to posit falsely the
existence of a "soul," of a "spirit," in order to be able to defy the
body; to spread the feeling that there is something impure in the very
first prerequisite of life--in sex; to seek the principle of evil in
the profound need of growth and expansion--that is to say, in severe
self-love (the term itself is slanderous); and conversely to see a
higher moral value--but what am I talking about?--I mean the _moral
value per se,_ in the typical signs of decline, in the antagonism of
the instincts, in "selflessness," in the loss of ballast, in "the
suppression of the personal element," and in "love of one's neighbour"
(neighbouritis!). What! is humanity itself in a state of degeneration?
Has it always been in this state? One thing is certain, that ye are
taught only the values of decadence as the highest values. The morality
of self-renunciation is essentially the morality of degeneration; the
fact, "I am going to the dogs," is translated into the imperative,"
Ye shall all go to the dogs"--and not only into the imperative. This
morality of self-renunciation, which is the only kind of morality that
has been taught hitherto, betrays the will to nonentity--it denies life
to the very roots. There still remains the possibility that it is not
mankind that is in a state of degeneration, but only that parasitical
kind of man--the priest, who, by means of morality and lies, has
climbed up to his position of determinator of values, who divined in
Christian morality his road to power. And, to tell the truth, this
is my opinion. The teachers and I leaders of mankind--including the
theologians--have been, every one of them, decadents: hence their)
transvaluation of all values into a hostility towards; life; hence
morality. _The definition of morality;_ Morality is the idiosyncrasy of
decadents, actuated by a desire _to avenge themselves with success upon
life._ I attach great value to this definition.



8


Have you understood me? I have not uttered a single word which I had
not already said five years ago through my mouthpiece Zarathustra.
The unmasking of Christian morality is an event which unequalled in
history, it is a real catastrophe. The man who throws light upon it
is a _force majeure,_ a fatality; he breaks the history of man into
two. Time is reckoned up before him and after him. The lightning
flash of truth struck precisely that which theretofore had stood
highest: he who understands what was destroyed by that flash should
look to see whether he still holds anything in his hands. Everything
which until then was called truth, has been revealed as the most
detrimental, most spiteful, and most subterranean form of life; the
holy pretext, which was the "improvement" of man, has been recognised
as a ruse for draining life of its energy and of its blood. Morality
conceived as _Vampirism_.... The man who unmasks morality has also
unmasked the worthlessness of the values in which men either believe
or have believed; he no longer sees anything to be revered in the most
venerable man--even in the types of men that have been pronounced
holy; all he can see in them is the most fatal kind of abortions,
fatal, _because they fascinate._ The concept "God" was invented as
the opposite of the concept life--everything detrimental, poisonous,
and slanderous, and all deadly hostility to life, wad bound together
in one horrible unit in Him. The concepts "beyond" and "true world"
were invented in order to depreciate the only world that exists--in
order that no goal or aim, no sense or task, might be left to earthly
reality. The concepts "soul," "spirit," and last of all the concept
"immortal soul," were invented in order to throw contempt on the body,
in order to make it sick and "holy," in order to cultivate an attitude
of appalling levity towards all things in life which deserve to be
treated seriously, _i.e._ the questions of nutrition and habitation,
of intellectual diet, the treatment of the sick, cleanliness, and
weather. Instead of health, we find the "salvation of the soul"--that
is to say, a _folie circulate_ fluctuating between convulsions and
penitence and the hysteria of redemption. The concept "sin," together
with the torture instrument appertaining to it, which is the concept
"free will," was invented in order to confuse and muddle our instincts,
and to render the mistrust of them man's second nature! In the concepts
"disinterestedness" and "self-denial," the actual signs of decadence
are to be found. The allurement of that which is detrimental, the
inability to discover one's own advantage and self-destruction, are
made into absolute qualities, into the "duty," the "holiness," and
the "divinity" of man. Finally--to keep the worst to the last--by the
notion of the _good_ man, all that is favoured which is weak, ill,
botched, and sick-in-itself, which _ought to be wiped out._ The law
of selection is thwarted, an ideal is made out of opposition to the
proud, well-constituted man, to him who says yea to life, to him who
is certain of the future, and who guarantees the future--this man is
henceforth called the _evil_ one. And all this was believed in as
_morality!--Ecrasez l'infâme!_



9


Have you understood me? _Dionysus_ versus _Christ._


[Footnote 1: Needless to say this is Nietzsche, and no longer the
Persian.--TR.]




EDITORIAL NOTE TO POETRY


The editor begs to state that, contrary to his announcement in
the Editorial Note to _The Joyful Wisdom,_ in which he declared
his intention of publishing all of Nietzsche's poetry, he has
nevertheless withheld certain less important verses from publication.
This alteration in his plans is due to his belief that it is an
injustice and an indiscretion on the part of posterity to surprise an
author, as it were, in his _négligé,_ or, in plain English, "in his
shirt-sleeves." Authors generally are very sensitive on this point, and
rightly so: a visit behind the scenes is not precisely to the advantage
of the theatre, and even finished pictures not yet framed are not
readily shown by the careful artist. As the German edition, however,
contains nearly all that Nietzsche left behind, either in small
notebooks or on scraps of paper, the editor could not well suppress
everything that was not prepared for publication by Nietzsche himself,
more particularly as some of the verses are really very remarkable.
He has, therefore, made a very plentiful selection from the _Songs
and Epigrams,_ nearly all of which are to be found translated here,
and from the Fragments of the Dionysus Dithyrambs, of which over half
have been given. All the complete Dionysus Dithyrambs appear in this
volume, save those which are duplicates of verses already translated
in the Fourth Part of _Zarathustra._ These Dionysus Dithyrambs were
prepared ready for press by Nietzsche himself. He wrote the final
manuscript during the summer of 1888 in Sils Maria; their actual
composition, however, belongs to an earlier date.

All the verses, unless otherwise stated, have been translated by Mr.
Paul Victor Cohn.




SONGS, EPIGRAMS, ETC.


SONGS



    TO MELANCHOLY[1]


    O Melancholy, be not wroth with me
      That I this pen should point to praise thee only,
    And in thy praise, with head bowed to the knee,
      Squat like a hermit on a tree-stump lonely.
    Thus oft thou saw'st me,--yesterday, at least,--
      Full in the morning sun and its hot beaming,
    While, visioning the carrion of his feast,
      The hungry vulture valleyward flew screaming.

    Yet didst thou err, foul bird, albeit I,
      So like a mummy 'gainst my log lay leaning!
    Thou couldst not see these eyes whose ecstasy
      Rolled hither, thither, proud and overweening.
    What though they did not soar unto thine height,
      or reached those far-off, cloud-reared precipices,
    For _that_ they sank the deeper so they might
      Within themselves light Destiny's abysses.

    Thus oft in sullenness perverse and free,
      Bent hideous like a savage at his altar,
    There, Melancholy, held I thought of thee,
      A penitent, though youthful, with his psalter.

    So crouched did I enjoy the vulture's span,
      The thunder of the avalanche's paces,
    Thou spakest to me--nor wast false like man,
      Thou spakest, but with stern and dreadful faces.

    Harsh goddess thou of Nature wild and stark,
      Mistress, that com'st with threats to daunt and quell me,
    To point me out the vulture's airy are
      And laughing avalanches, to repel me.
    Around us gnashing pants the lust to kill,
      The torment to win life in all its changes;
    Alluring on some cliff, abrupt and chill,
      Some flower craves the butterfly that ranges.

    All this am I--shuddering I feel it all--
      O butterfly beguiled, O lonely flower,
    The vulture and the ice-pent waterfall,
      The moaning storm--all symbols of thy power,--
    Thou goddess grim before whom deeply bowed,
      With head on knee, my lips with pæans bursting,
    I lift a dreadful song and cry aloud
      For Life, for Life, for Life--forever thirsting!

    O vengeful goddess, be not wroth, I ask,
      That I to mesh thee in my rhymes have striven.
    He trembles who beholds thine awful mask;
      He quails to whom thy dread right hand is given.
    Song upon trembling song by starts and fits
      I chant, in rhythm all my thought unfolding,
    The black ink flows, the pointed goose-quill spits,
      O goddess, goddess--leave me to my scolding!




    AFTER A NIGHT STORM[2]


    To-day in misty veils thou hangest dimly,
      Gloomy goddess, o'er my window-pane.
    Grimly whirl the pallid snow-flakes, grimly
      Roars the swollen brook unto the plain.

    Ah, by light of haggard levins glaring,
      'Neath the untamed thunder's roar and roll,
    'Midst the valley's murk wast thou preparing--
      Sorceress! thy dank and poisoned bowl.

    Shuddering, I heard through midnight breaking
      Raptures of thy voice--and howls of pain.
    Saw thy bright orbs gleam, thy right hand shaking
      With the mace of thunder hurled amain.

    Near my dreary couch I heard the crashes
      Of thine armoured steps, heard weapons slam,
    Heard thy brazen chain strike 'gainst the sashes,
      And thy voice: "Come! hearken who I am!

    The immortal Amazon they call me;
      All things weak and womanish I shun;
    Manly scorn and hate in war enthral me;
      Victress I and tigress all in one!

    Where I tread there corpses fall before me;
      From mine eyes the furious torches fly,
    And my brain thinks poisons. Bend, adore me!
      Worm of Earth and Will o' Wisp--or die!"




    HYMNS TO FRIENDSHIP


    (_Two Fragments_)


    1

    Goddess Friendship, deign to hear the song
      That we sing in friendship's honour!
    Where the eye of friendship glances,
      Filled with all the joy of friendship
      Come thou nigh to aid me,
    Rosy dawn in thy gaze and
    In holy hand the faithful pledge of youth eternal.


    2

    Morning's past: the sun of noonday
      Scorches with hot ray our heads.
    Let us sit beneath the arbour
    Singing songs in praise of friendship.
    Friendship was our life's red dawning,
      And its sunset red shall be.




    THE WANDERER[3]


    All through the night a wanderer walks
      Sturdy of stride,
    With winding vale and sloping height
      E'er at his side.
      Fair is the night:
    On, on he strides, nor slackens speed,
    And knows not where his path will lead.

    A bird's song in the night is heard,
    "Ah me, what hast thou done, O bird,
      How dost thou grip my sense and feet
      And pourest heart-vexation sweet
    Into mine ear--I must remain,
      To hearken fain:
    Why lure me with inviting strain?"

    The good bird speaks, staying his song:
    "I lure not thee,--no, thou art wrong--
      With these my trills
    I lure my mate from off the hills--
      Nor heed thy plight.
    To me alone the night's not fair.
    What's that to thee? Forth must thou fare,
    On, onward ever, resting ne'er.

      Why stand'st thou now?
    What has my piping done to thee,
      Thou roaming wight?"
    The good bird pondered, silent quite,
    "Why doth my piping change his plight?
      Why stands he now,
    That luckless, luckless, roaming wight?"




    TO THE GLACIER


    At noontide hour, when first,
    Into the mountains Summer treads,
    Summer, the boy with eyes so hot and weary,
    Then too he speaks,
    Yet we can only see his speech.

    His breath is panting, like the sick man's breath
    On fevered couch.
    The glacier and the fir tree and the spring
    Answer his call
    --Yet we their answer only see.
    For faster from the rock leaps down
    The torrent stream, as though to greet,
    And stands, like a white column trembling,
    All yearning there.
    And darker yet and truer looks the fir-tree
    Than e'er before.
    And 'twixt the ice-mass and the cold grey stone
    A sudden light breaks forth--
    Such light I once beheld, and marked the sign.

    Even the dead man's eye
    Surely once more grows light,
    When, sorrowful, his child
    Gives him embrace and kiss:
    Surely once more the flame of light
    Wells out, and glowing into life
    The dead eye speaks: "My child!
    Ah child, you know I love you true!"

    So all things glow and speak--the glacier speaks,
    The brook, the fir,
    Speak with their glance the selfsame words:
    We love you true,
    Ah, child, you know we love you, love you true!

    And he,
    Summer, the boy with eyes so hot and weary,
    Woe-worn, gives kisses
    More ardent ever,
    And will not go:
    But like to veils he blows his words
    From out his lips,
    His cruel words:
    "My greeting's parting,
    My coming going,
    In youth I die."

    All round they hearken
    And scarcely breathe
    (No songster sings),
    And shuddering run
    Like gleaming ray
    Over the mountain;
    All round they ponder,--
    Nor speak--

    Twas at the noon,
    At noontide hour, when first
    Into the mountains Summer treads,
    Summer, the boy with eyes so hot and weary.




    AUTUMN[4]


    'Tis Autumn:--Autumn yet shall break thy heart!
    Fly away! fly away!--
    The sun creeps 'gainst the hill
    And climbs and climbs
    And rests at every step.

    How faded grew the world!
    On weary, slackened strings the wind
    Playeth his tune.
    Fair Hope fled far--
    He waileth after.

    'Tis Autumn:--Autumn yet shall break thy heart!
    Fly away! fly away!
    O fruit of the tree,
    Thou tremblest, fallest?
    What secret whispered unto thee
    The Night,
    That icy shudders deck thy cheek,
    Thy cheek of purple hue?

    Silent art thou, nor dost reply--
    Who speaketh still?--

    'Tis Autumn:--Autumn yet shall break thy heart!
    Fly away! fly away!--
    "I am not fair,"--
    So speaks the lone star-flower,--
    "Yet men I love
    And comfort men--
    Many flowers shall they behold,
    And stoop to me,
    And break me, ah!--
    So that within their eyes shall gleam
    Remembrance swift,
    _Remembrance of far fairer things than I_:--
    I see it--see it--and I perish so."

    'Tis Autumn:--Autumn yet shall break thy heart!
    Fly away! fly away!




    CAMPO SANTO DI STAGLIENO[5]


    Maiden, in gentle wise
    You stroke your lamb's soft fleece,
    Yet flashing from your eyes
    Both light and flame ne'er cease.
    Creature of merry jest
    And favourite near and far,
    Pious with kindness blest,
          Amorosissima!

    What broke so soon the chain,
    What does your heart deplore?
    And who, pray, would not fain,
    If you loved him, adore?--
    You're mute, but from your eye,
    The tear-drop is not far,
    You're mute: you'll yearn and die,
          Amorosissima?




    THE LITTLE BRIG NAMED "LITTLE ANGEL"[6]


    "Little Angel" call they me!--
    Now a ship, but once a girl,
    Ah, and still too much a girl!
    My steering-wheel, so bright to see,
    But for sake of love doth whirl.

    "Little Angel" call they me,
    With hundred flags to ornament,
    A captain smart, on glory bent,
    Steers me, puffed with vanity
    (He himself's an ornament).

    "Little Angel" call they me,
    And where'er a little flame
    Gleams for me, I, like a lamb,
    Go my journey eagerly
    (I was always such a lamb!).

    "Little Angel" call they me--
    Think you I can bark and whine
    Like a dog, this mouth of mine
    Throwing smoke and flame full free?
    Ah, a devil's mouth is mine.

    "Little Angel" call they me--
    Once I spoke a bitter word,
    That my lover, when he heard,
    Fast and far away did flee:
    Yes, I killed him with that word!

    "Little Angel" call they me:
    Hardly heard, I sprang so glib
    From the cliff and broke a rib:
    From my frame my soul went free,
    Yes, escaped me through that rib.

    "Little Angel" call they me--
    Then my soul, like cat in flight
    Straight did on this ship alight
    Swiftly bounding--one, two, three!
    Yes, its claws are swift to smite.

    "Little Angel" call they me!--
    Now a ship, but once a girl,
    Ah, and still too much a girl!
    My steering-wheel, so bright to see,
    For sake of love alone doth whirl.




    MAIDEN'S SONG


    Yesterday with seventeen years
    Wisdom reached I, a maiden fair,
    I am grey-haired, it appears,
    Now in all things--save my hair.

    Yesterday, I had a thought,
    Was't a thought?--you laugh and scorn!
    Did you ever have a thought?
    Rather was a feeling born.

    Dare a woman think? This screed
    Wisdom long ago begot:
    "Follow woman must, not lead;
    If she thinks, she follows not."

    Wisdom speaks--I credit naught:
    Rather hops and stings like flea:
    "Woman seldom harbours thought;
    If she thinks, no good is she!"

    To this wisdom, old, renowned,
    Bow I in deep reverence:
    Now my wisdom I'll expound
    In its very quintessence.

    A voice spoke in me yesterday
    As ever--listen if you can:
    "Woman is more beauteous aye,
    But more interesting--man!"




    "PIA, CARITATEVOLE, AMOROSISSIMA"[7]


    Cave where the dead ones rest,
    O marble falsehood, thee
    I love: for easy jest
    My soul thou settest free.

    To-day, to-day alone,
    My soul to tears is stirred,
    At thee, the pictured stone,
    At thee, the graven word.

    This picture (none need wis)
    I kissed the other day.
    When there's so much to kiss
    Why did I kiss the--clay?

    Who knows the reason why?
    "A tombstone fool!" you laugh:
    I kissed--I'll not deny--
    E'en the long epitaph.




    TO FRIENDSHIP


    Hail to thee, Friendship!
    My hope consummate,
    My first red daybreak!
    Alas, so endless
    Oft path and night seemed,
    And life's long road
    Aimless and hateful!
    Now life I'd double
    In thine eyes seeing
    Dawn-glory, triumph,
    Most gracious goddess!




    PINE TREE AND LIGHTNING


    O'er man and beast I grew so high,
    And speak--but none will give reply.

    Too lone and tall my crest did soar:
    I wait: what am I waiting for?

    The clouds are grown too nigh of late,
    'Tis the first lightning I await.




    TREE IN AUTUMN


    Why did ye, blockheads, me awaken
      While I in blissful blindness stood?
    Ne'er I by fear more fell was shaken--
      Vanished my golden dreaming mood.

    Bear-elephants, with trunks all greedy,
      Knock first! Where have your manners fled?
    I threw--and fear has made me speedy--
      Dishes of ripe fruit--at your head.




    AMONG FOES (OR AGAINST CRITICS)


    (_After a Gipsy Proverb_)


    Here the gallows, there the cord,
      And the hangman's ruddy beard.
    Round, the venom-glancing horde:--
      Nothing new to me's appeared.
    Many times I've seen the sight,
      Now laughing in your face I cry,
    "Hanging me is useless quite:
      Die? Nay, nay, I cannot die!"

    Beggars all! Ye envy me
      Winning what ye never won!
    True, I suffer agony,
      But for you--your life is done.
    Many times I've faced death's plight,
      Yet steam and light and breath am I.
    Hanging me is useless quite:
      Die? Nay, nay, I cannot die!




    THE NEW COLUMBUS[8]


    "Dearest," said Columbus, "never
      Trust a Genoese again.
    At the blue he gazes ever,
      Distance doth his soul enchain.

    Strangeness is to me too dear--
      Genoa has sunk and passed--
    Heart, be cool! Hand, firmly steer!
      Sea before me: land--at last?

    Firmly let us plant our feet,
      Ne'er can we give up this game--
    From the distance what doth greet?
      One death, one happiness, one fame.




    IN LONESOMENESS[9]


    The cawing crows
    Townwards on whirring pinions roam;
    Soon come the snows--
    Thrice happy now who hath a home!

    Fast-rooted there,
    Thou gazest backwards--oh, how long!
    Thou fool, why dare
    Ere winter come, this world of wrong?

    This world--a gate
    To myriad deserts dumb and hoar!
    Who lost through fate
    What thou hast lost, shall rest no more.

    Now stand'st thou pale,
    A frozen pilgrimage thy doom,
    Like smoke whose trail
    Cold and still colder skies consume.

    Fly, bird, and screech,
    Like desert-fowl, thy song apart!
    Hide out of reach,
    Fool! in grim ice thy bleeding heart.

    Firmly let us plant our feet,
      Ne'er can we give up this game--
    From the distance what doth greet?
      One death, one happiness, one fame.

    The cawing crows
      Townwards on whirring pinions roam:
    Soon come the snows--
      Woe unto him who hath no home!

    _My Answer_

    The man presumes--
      Good Lord!--to think that I'd return
    To those warm rooms
      Where snug the German ovens burn

    My friend, you see
      'Tis but thy folly drives me far,--
    Pity for _thee_
      And all that German blockheads are!




    VENICE


    ON the bridge I stood,
    Mellow was the night,
    Music came from far--
    Drops of gold outpoured
    On the shimmering waves.
    Song, gondolas, light,
    Floated a-twinkling out into the dusk.

    The chords of my soul, moved
    By unseen impulse, throbbed
    Secretly into a gondola song,
    With thrills of bright-hued ecstasy.
    Had I a listener there?


[Footnote 1: Translated by Herman Scheffauer.]

[Footnote 2: Translated by Herman Scheffauer.]

[Footnote 3: This poem was written on the betrothal of one of
Nietzsche's Bâle friends.--TR.]

[Footnote 4: Translated by Herman Scheffauer.]

[Footnote 5: Campo Santo di Staglieno is the cemetery of Staglieno,
near Genoa. The poem was inspired by the sight of a girl
with a lamb on the tombstone, with the words underneath--
"Pia, caritatevole, amorosissima."]

[Footnote 6: Published by Nietzsche himself. The poem was inspired
by a ship that was christened _Angiolina,_ in memory of a
love-sick girl who leapt into the sea.--TR.]

[Footnote 7: See above, p. 157. Both poems were inspired by the same
tombstone.--TR.]

[Footnote 8: The Genoese is Nietzsche himself, who lived a great
part of his life at Genoa.--TR.]

[Footnote 9: Translated by Herman Scheffauer.]





EPIGRAMS



    CAUTION: POISON![1]


    He who cannot laugh at this had better not start reading;

    For if he read and do not laugh, physic he'll be needing!




    HOW TO FIND ONE'S COMPANY


    With jesters it is good to jest:
    Who likes to tickle, is tickled best.




    THE WORD


    I dearly love the living word,
    That flies to you like a merry bird,
    Ready with pleasant nod to greet,
    E'en in misfortune welcome, sweet,
    Yet it has blood, can pant you deep:
    Then to the dove's ear it will creep:
    And curl itself, or start for flight--
    Whate'er it does, it brings delight.

    Yet tender doth the word remain,
    Soon it is ill, soon well again:
    So if its little life you'd spare,
    O grasp it lightly and with care,
    Nor heavy hand upon it lay,
    For e'en a cruel glance would slay!
    There it would lie, unsouled, poor thing!
    All stark, all formless, and all cold,
    Its little body changed and battered,
    By death and dying rudely shattered.

    A dead word is a hateful thing,
    A barren, rattling, ting-ting-ting.
    A curse on ugly trades I cry
    That doom all little words to die!




    THE WANDERER AND HIS SHADOW


    _A Book_


    You'll ne'er go on nor yet go back?
    Is e'en for chamois here no track?

    So here I wait and firmly clasp
    What eye and hand will let me grasp!

    Five-foot-broad ledge, red morning's breath,
    And under me--world, man, and death!




    JOYFUL WISDOM


    This is no book--for such, who looks?
    Coffins and shrouds, naught else, are books!
    What's dead and gone they make their prey,
    Yet in my book lives fresh To-day.

    This is no book--for such, who looks?
    Who cares for coffins, shrouds, and spooks?
    This is a promise, an act of will,
    A last bridge-breaking, for good or ill;
    A wind from sea, an anchor light,
    A whirr of wheels, a steering right.
    The cannon roars, white smokes its flame,
    The sea--the monster--laughs and scents its game.




    DEDICATION[2]


    He who has much to tell, keeps much
      Silent and unavowed.
    He who with lightning-flash would touch
      Must long remain a cloud!




    THE NEW TESTAMENT[3]


    Is this your Book of Sacred Lore,
    For blessing, cursing, and such uses?--
    Come, come now: at the very door
    God some one else's wife seduces?




    THE "TRUE GERMAN"


    "O Peuple des meillures Tartuffes,
    To you I'm true, I wis."
    He spoke, but in the swiftest skiff
    Went to Cosmopolis.




    TO THE DARWINIANS[4]


    A fool this honest Britisher
    Was not ... But a Philosopher!
      As _that_ you really rate him?
    Set Darwin up by Goethe's side?
    But majesty you thus deride--
      _Genii majestatem_!




    To HAFIZ


    (_Toast Question of a Water-Drinker_)


    What you have builded, yonder inn,
      O'ertops all houses high:
    The posset you have brewed therein
      The world will ne'er drink dry.
    The bird that once appeared on earth
      As phœnix, is your, guest.
    The mouse that gave a mountain birth
      Is you yourself confessed!
    You're all and naught, you're inn and wine,
      You're phœnix, mountain, mouse.
    Back to yourself to come you pine
      Or fly from out your house.
    Downward from every height you've sunk,
      And in the depths still shine:
    The drunkenness of all the drunk,
      Why do you ask for--wine?




    TO SPINOZA


    Of "All in One" a fervent devotee
    _Amore Dei,_ of reasoned piety,
    Doff shoes! A land thrice holy this must be!--
    Yet underneath this love there sate
    A torch of vengeance, burning secretly
    The Hebrew God was gnawed by Hebrew hate.
    Hermit! Do I aright interpret thee?




    ARTHUR SCHOPENHAUER


    That which he taught, has had its day,
    That which he lived, shall live for aye:
    Look at the man! No bondsman he!
    Nor e'er to mortal bowed his knee!




    TO RICHARD WAGNER


    O You who chafe at every fetter's link,
    A restless spirit, never free:
    Who, though victorious aye, in bonds still cowered,
    Disgusted more and more, and flayed and scoured,
    Till from each cup of balm you poison drink,
    Alas! and by the Cross all helpless sink,
    You too, you too, among the overpowered!

    For long I watched this play so weirdly shaped,
    Breathing an air of prison, vault, and dread,
    With churchly fragrance, clouds of incense spread,
    And yet I found all strange/in terror gaped.
    But now I throw my fool's cap o'er my head,
    For I escaped!




    MUSIC OF THE SOUTH[5]


    All that my eagle e'er saw clear,
    I see and feel in heart to-day
    (Although my hope was wan and gray)
    Thy song like arrow pierced mine ear,
    A balm to touch, a balm to hear,
    As down from heaven it winged its way.

    So now for lands of southern fire
    To happy isles where Grecian nymphs hold sport!
    Thither now turn the ship's desire--
    No ship e'er sped to fairer port.




    A RIDDLE


    A riddle here--can you the answer scent?
    "When man discovers, woman must invent."----




    TO FALSE FRIENDS


    You stole, your eye's not clear to-day.
    You only stole a thought, sir? nay,
    Why be so rudely modest, pray?
    Here, take another handful--stay,
    Take all I have, you swine--you may
    Eat till your filth is purged away.




    FRIEND YORICK


    Be of good cheer,
    Friend Yorick! If this thought gives pain,
    As now it does, I fear,
    Is it not "God"? And though in error lain,
    'Tis but your own dear child,
    Your flesh and blood,
    That tortures you and gives you pain,
    Your little rogue and do-no-good,
    See if the rod will change its mood!

    In brief, friend Yorick, leave that drear
    Philosophy--and let me now
    Whisper one word as medicine,
    My own prescription, in your ear,
    My remedy against such spleen--
    "Who loves his God, chastises him, I ween,"




    RESOLUTION


    I should be wise to suit my mood,
    Not at the beck of other men:
    God made as stupid as he could
    The world--well, let me praise him then.

    And if I make not straight my track,
    But, far as may be, wind and bend,
    That's how the sage begins his tack,
    And that is how the fool will--end.

         *     *     *     *     *

    The world stands never still,
    Night loves the glowing day--
    Sweet sounds to ear "I will!"
    And sweeter still "I may!"




    THE HALCYONIAN[6]


    Addressing me most bashfully,
      A woman to-day said this:
    "What would you be like in ecstasy,
      If sober you feel such bliss?"




    FINALE[6]


    Laughter is a serious art.
    I would do it better daily.
    Did I well to-day or no?
    Came the spark right from the heart?
    Little use though head wag gaily,
    If the heart contain no glow.



[Footnote 1: Translated by Francis Bickley.]

[Footnote 2: On the title-page of a copy of _Joyful Wisdom,_ dedicated
to Herr August Bungal.--TR.]

[Footnote 3: Translated by Francis Bickley.]

[Footnote 4: Translated by Francis Bickley.]

[Footnote 5: Probably written for Peter Gast, Nietzsche's faithful
friend, and a musician whose "Southern" music Nietzsche
admired.--TR.]

[Footnote 6: Translated by Francis Bickley.]




DIONYSUS-DITHYRAMBS


(1888)


These are the songs of Zarathustra which he sang to
himself so as to endure his last solitude.



    OF THE POVERTY OF THE RICHEST


    Ten years passed by--
    Not a drop reached me,
    No rain-fraught wind, no dew of love
    --A rainless land....
    Now entreat I my wisdom
    Not to become stingy in this drought;
    Overflow thyself, trickle thy dew,
    Be thyself the rain of the parched wilderness!

    I once bade the clouds
    Depart from my mountains;
    Once I said to them,
    "More light, ye dark ones!"
    To-day I entice them to come:
    Make me dark with your udders:
    --I would milk you,
    Ye cows of the heights!
    Milk-warm wisdom, sweet dew of love
    I pour over the land.

    Away, away, ye truths
    That look so gloomy!
    I will not have on my mountains
    Bitter, impatient truths.
    May truth approach me to-day
    Gilded by smiles,
    Sweetened by the sun, browned by love,--
    A ripe truth I would fain break off from the tree.

    To-day I stretch my hands
    Toward the tresses of chance,
    Wise enough to lead,
    To outwit chance like a child.
    To-day I will be hospitable
    'Gainst the unwelcome,
    'Gainst destiny itself I will not be prickly....
    --Zarathustra is no hedgehog.

    My soul,
    Insatiable with its tongue,
    Has already tasted of all things good and evil,
    And has dived into all depths.
    But ever, like the cork,
    It swims to the surface again,
    And floats like oil upon brown seas:
    Because of this soul men call me fortunate.

    Who are my father and mother?
    Is not my father Prince Plenty?
    And my mother Silent Laughter?
    Did not the union of these two
    Beget me, the enigmatic beast--
    Me, the monster of light--
    Me, Zarathustra, the squanderer of all wisdom?

    Sick to-day from tenderness,
    A dewy wind,
    Zarathustra sits waiting, waiting on his mountains--
    Sweet and stewing
    In his own juice,
    Beneath his own summit,
    Beneath his ice,
    Weary and happy,
    A Creator on his seventh day.

    --Silence!
    A truth passes over me
    Like a cloud,--
    With invisible lightnings it strikes me,
    On broad, slow stairs,
    Its happiness climbs to me:
    Come, come, beloved truth!

    --Silence!
    'Tis _my_ truth!
    From timid eyes,
    From velvet shudders,
    Her glance meets mine,
    Sweet and wicked, a maiden's glance.
    She has guessed the reason of my happiness,
    She has guessed me--ha! what is she thinking?
    A purple dragon
    Lurks in the abyss of her maiden's glance.

    --Silence! My truth is speaking!--

    "Woe to thee, Zarathustra!
    Thou lookest like one
    That hath swallowed gold:
    They will slit up thy belly yet!

    Thou art too rich,
    Thou corrupter of many!
    Thou makest too many jealous,
    Too many poor....
    Even on me thy light casts a shadow--
    I feel chill: go away, thou rich one
    Go away, Zarathustra, from the path of thy sun




    BETWEEN BIRDS OF PREY


    Who would here descend,
    How soon
    Is he swallowed up by the depths!
    But thou, Zarathustra,
    Still lovest the abysses,
    Lovest them as doth the fir tree!

    The fir flings its roots
    Where the rock itself gazes
    Shuddering at the depths,--
    The fir pauses before the abysses
    Where all around
    Would fain descend:
    Amid the impatience
    Of wild, rolling, leaping torrents
    It waits so patient, stern and silent,
    Lonely....

    Lonely!
    Who would venture
    Here to be guest--
    To be thy guest?

    A bird of prey, perchance
    Joyous at others' misfortune,
    Will cling persistent
    To the hair of the steadfast watcher,
    With frenzied laughter,
    A vulture's laughter....

    Wherefore so steadfast?
    --Mocks he so cruel:
    He must have wings, who loves the abyss,
    He must not stay on the cliff,
    As thou who hangest there!--

    O Zarathustra,
    Cruellest Nimrod!
    Of late still a hunter of God,
    A spider's web to capture virtue,
    An arrow of evil!
    Now
    Hunted by thyself,
    Thine own prey
    Caught in the grip of thine own soul.

    Now
    Lonely to me and thee,
    Twofold in thine own knowledge,
    Mid a hundred mirrors
    False to thyself,
    Mid a hundred memories
    Uncertain,
    Weary at every wound,
    Shivering at every frost,
    Throttled in thine own noose,
    Self-knower!
    Self-hangman!

    Why didst bind thyself
    With the noose of thy wisdom?
    Why luredst thyself
    Into the old serpent's paradise?
    Why stolest into
    Thyself, thyself?...

    A sick man now,
    Sick of serpent's poison,
    A captive now
    Who hast drawn the hardest lot:
    In thine own shaft
    Bowed as thou workest,
    In thine own cavern
    Digging at thyself,
    Helpless quite,
    Stiff,
    A cold corse
    Overwhelmed with a hundred burdens,
    Overburdened by thyself,
    A knower!
    A self-knower!
    The wise Zarathustra!...

    Thou soughtest the heaviest burden,
    So foundest thou thyself,
    And canst not shake thyself off....

    Watching,
    Chewing,
    One that stands upright no more!
    Thou wilt grow deformed even in thy grave,
    Deformed spirit!

    And of late still so proud
    On all the stilts of thy pride!
    Of late still the godless hermit,
    The hermit with one comrade--the devil,
    The scarlet prince of every devilment!...

    Now--
    Between two nothings
    Huddled up,
    A question-mark,
    A weary riddle,
    A riddle for vultures....
    They will "solve" thee,
    They hunger already for thy "solution,"
    They flutter already about their "riddle,"
    About thee, the doomed one!
    O Zarathustra,
    Self-knower!
    Self-hangman!




    THE SUN SINKS


    I

    Not much longer thirstest thou,
    O burnt-up heart!
    Promise is in the air,
    From unknown mouths I feel a breath,
    --The great coolness comes....
    My sun stood hot above me at noonday:
    A greeting to you that are coming,
    Ye sudden winds,
    Ye cool spirits of afternoon!

    The air is strange and pure.
    See how the night
    Leers at me with eyes askance,
    Like a seducer!...
    Be strong, my brave heart,
    And ask not "Why?"


    2

    The day of my life!
    The sun sinks,
    And the calm flood
    Already is gilded.
    Warm breathes the rock:
    Did happiness at noonday
    Take its siesta well upon it?
    In green light
    Happiness still glimmers up from the brown abyss

    Day of my life!
    Eventide's nigh,
    Thy eye already
    Glows half-broken,
    Thy dew already
    Pours out its tear-drops,
    Already over the white seas
    Walks the purple of thy love,
    Thy last hesitating holiness....


    3

    Golden gaiety, come!
    Thou, the sweetest foretaste--
    Foretaste of death!
    --Went I my way too swiftly?
    Now that the foot grows weary,
    Thine eye still catches me,
    Thy happiness still catches me.

    Around but waves and play.
    Whatever was hard
    --Sank into blue oblivion.
    My boat now stands idle.
    Storm and motion--how did it forget them!
    Desire and Hope are drowned,
    Sea and soul are becalmed.

    Seventh Solitude!
    Never felt!
    Sweet certainty nearer,
    Or warmer the sun's ray.
    --Glows not the ice of my summit yet?
    Silvery, light, a fish
    Now my vessel swims out....




    THE LAST DESIRE[1]


    So would I die
    As then I saw him die,
    The friend, who like a god
    Into my darkling youth
    Threw lightning's light and fire:
    Buoyant yet deep was he,
    Yea, in the battle's strife
    With the gay dancer's heart.

    Amid the warriors
    His was the lightest heart,
    Amid the conquerors
    His brow was dark with thought--
    He was a fate poised on his destiny:
    Unbending, casting thought into the past
    And future, such was he.

    Fearful beneath the weight of victory,
    Yet chanting, as both victory and death
    Came hand and hand to him.

    Commanding even as he lay in death,
    And his command that man annihilate.

    So would I die
    As then I saw him die,
    Victorious and destroying.




    THE BEACON


    Here, where the island grew amid the seas,
    A sacrificial rock high-towering,
    Here under darkling heavens,
    Zarathustra lights his mountain-fires,
    A beacon for ships that have strayed,
    A beacon for them that have an answer!...

    These flames with grey-white belly,
    In cold distances sparkle their desire,
    Stretches its neck towards ever purer heights--
    A snake upreared in impatience:
    This signal I set up there before me.
    This flame is mine own soul,
    Insatiable for new distances,
    Speeding upward, upward its silent heat.

    Why flew Zarathustra from beasts and men?
    Why fled he swift from all continents?
    Six solitudes he knows already--
    But even the sea was not lonely enough for him,
    On the island he could climb, on the mount he
        became flame,
    At the seventh solitude
    He casts a fishing-rod far o'er his head.

    Storm-tossed seamen! Wreckage of ancient stars
    Ye seas of the future! Uncompassed heavens!
    At all lonely ones I now throw my fishing-rod.
    Give answer to the flame's impatience,
    Let me, the fisher on high mountains,
    Catch my seventh, last solitude!----




    FAME AND ETERNITY[2]


    I

    Speak, tell me, how long wilt thou brood
    Upon this adverse fate of thine?
    Beware, lest from thy doleful mood
    A countenance _90_ dark is brewed
    That men in seeing thee divine
    A hate more bitter than the brine.
        *     *     *     *
    Speak, why does Zarathustra roam
    Upon the towering mountain-height?
    Distrustful, cankered, dour, his home
    Is shut so long from human sight?
        *     *     *     *
    See, suddenly flames forth a lightning-flash,
    The pit profound with thunderous challenge fights
    Against the heavens, midst clamorous crack and crash
    Of the great mountain! Cradled in the heights,
    Born as the fruit of hate and lightning's love,
    The wrath of Zarathustra dwells above
    And looms with menace of a thundercloud.
        *     *     *     *
    Ye, who have roofs, go quickly, creep and hide!
    To bed, ye tenderlings! For thunders loud
    Upon the blasts of storm triumphant ride,
    And bastions and ramparts sway and rock,

    The lightning sears the dusky face of night,
    And eerie truths like gleams of Hades mock
    The sense familiar. So in storm breaks forth
    The flaming curse of Zarathustra's wrath.


    2

    This fame, which all the wide world loves,
    I touch with gloves,
    And scorning beat
    Beneath my feet.
        *     *     *     *
    Who hanker after the pay of it?
    Who cast themselves in the way of it?
    These prostitutes to gold,
    These merchant folk. They fold
    Their unctuous palms over the jingling fame,
    Whose ringing chink wins all the world's acclaim.
        *     *     *     *
    Hast thou the lust to buy? It needs no skill.
    They are all venal. Let thy purse be deep,
    And let their greedy paws unhindered creep
    Into its depths. So let them take their fill,
    For if thou dost not offer them enough,
    Their "virtue" they'll parade, to hide their huff.
        *     *     *     *
    They are all virtuous, yea every one.
    Virtue and fame are ever in accord
    So long as time doth run,

    The tongues that prate of virtue as reward
    Earn fame. For virtue is fame's clever bawd.
        *     *     *     *
    Amongst these virtuous, I prefer to be
    One guilty of all vile and horrid sin!
    And when I see fame's importunity
    So advertise her shameless harlotry,
    Ambition turns to gall. Amidst such kin
    One place alone, the lowest, would I win.
        *     *     *     *
    This fame, which all the wide world loves,
    I touch with gloves,
    And scorning beat
    Beneath my feet.


    3

    Hush! I see vastness!--and of vasty things
    Shall man be dumb, unless he can enshrine
    Them with his words? Then take the might which brings
    The heart upon thy tongue, charmed wisdom mine!
        *     *     *     *
    I look above, there rolls the star-strown sea.
    O night, mute silence, voiceless cry of stars!
    And lo! A sign! The heaven its verge unbars--
    A shining constellation falls towards me.


    4

    O loftiest, star-clustered crown of Being!
    O carved tablets of Eternity!
    And dost thou truly bend thy way to me?
    Thy loveliness, to all--obscurity,
    What? Fear'st not to unveil before _my_ seeing?
        *     *     *     *
    O shield of Destiny!
    O carven tablets of Eternity!
    Yea, verily, thou knowest--what mankind doth hate,
    What I alone do love: thou art inviolate
    To strokes of change and time, of fates the fate!
    'Tis only thou, O dire Necessity,
    Canst kindle everlasting love in me!
        *     *     *     *
    O loftiest crown of Life! O shield of Fate!
    That no desire can reach to invocate,
    That ne'er defiled or sullied is by Nay,
    Eternal Yea of life, for e'er am I thy Yea:
    For I love thee, Eternity!


[Footnote 1: Translated by Dr. G. T. Wrench.]

[Footnote 2: Translated by Dr. G. T. Wrench.]




FRAGMENTS OF DIONYSUS-DITHYRAMBS

(1882-88)


SPEECHES, PARABLES, AND SIMILES


    3

    My home's in the highlands,
    For the highlands I yearn not,
    I raise not mine eyes aloft:
    I am one that looks downward,
    One that must bless,--All
    blessers look downward.


    11

    Thus I began,
    I unlearned all self-pity!


    13

    Not in shattering idols,
    But in shattering the idol-worshipper in thee,
    Consisted thy valour.


    14

    See, there stand
    Those heavy cats of granite,
    Those old, old Values.
    Woe is me! How overthrow them?
       *   *   *   *
    Scratching cats,
    With paws that are fettered,
    There they sit
    And their glance is poison.


    17

    A lightning-flash became my wisdom:
    With sword of adamant it clove me every
        darkness!


    19

    A thought that still
    Flows hot, like lava:
    But all streams of lava
    Build a fortress around them,
    And every thought finally
    Oppresses itself with laws.


    20

    Such is my will:
    And since 'tis my will,
    All goes as I wish--
    That was my final wisdom:
    I willed what I must,
    And thus I forced every "must,"--
    Since then has been for me no "must."


    23

    Deceit
    Is war's whole art
    The fox's skin
    Is my secret shirt of mail


    25

    We of the new underworld
    Grub for new treasures.
    Godless it seemed to the ancients
    To disturb the earth's bowels for treasures
    And once more this godlessness revives,
    Hear ye not earth's bowels thunder?


    28

    Looking for love and finding masks,
    Finding accursed masks and having to break them!


    29

    Do I love you?
    Yes, as the rider loves his steed,
    That carryeth him to his goal.


    30

    His pity is cruel,
    His loving hand-clasp bruises,
    Give not a giant your hand!


    31

    Ye fear me?
    Ye fear the taut-strung bow?
    Ye fear a man might set his arrow to the bow?


    33

    I am naught but a word-maker.
    What matter words?
    What matter I?


    34

    Ah, my friends,
    Whither has flown all that is called "good"?
    Whither all good people?
    Whither the innocence of all these falsehoods?
    I call all good,
    Leaves and grass, happiness, blessing, and rain.


    35

    Not through his sins and greatest follies.
    Through his perfection I suffered,
    As I suffered most from men.[1]


    36

    "Man is evil."
    So spake the wisest
    For my consolement.


    37

    And only when I to myself am a burden
    Do ye fall heavy upon me!


    38

    Too soon, already
    I laugh again:
    For a foe 'tis easy
    To make me amends.


    39

    Gentle am I towards man and chance;
    Gentle with all men, and even with grasses:
    A spot of sunshine on winter curtains,
    Moist with tenderness,
    A thawing wind to snow-bound souls:
        *    *    *    *
    Proud-minded towards trifling
    Gains, where I see the huckster's long finger,
    'Tis aye my pleasure
    To be bamboozled:
    Such is the bidding of my fastidious taste.


    40

    A strange breath breathes and spits at me,
    Am I a mirror, that straightway is clouded?


    41

    Little people,
    Confiding, open-hearted,
    But low-built portals,
    Where only the low of stature can enter.
        *    *    *    *
    How can I get through the city-gate
    Who had forgotten to live among dwarfs?


    42

    My wisdom was like to the sun,
    I longed to give them light,
    But I only deceived them.
    The sun of my wisdom
    Blinded the eyes
    Of these poor bats....


    43

    Blacker and eviller things didst thou see than ever
        a seer did:
    Through the revels of Hell no sage had ever
        journeyed.


    44

    Back! on my heels too closely ye follow!
    Back! lest my wisdom should tread on you, crush
       you!


    45

    "He goes to hell who goes thy ways!"
    So be it I to my hell
    I'll pave the way myself with well-made maxims.


    46

    Your God, you tell me,
    Is a God of love?
    The sting of conscience
    A sting from God?
    A sting of love?


    48

    They chew gravel,
    They lie on their bellies
    Before little round things,
    They adore all that falleth not down--
    These last servants of God
    Believers (in reality)!


    50

    They made their God out of nothing,
    What wonder if now he is naught?


    51

    Ye loftier men! There have once been
    More thoughtful times, more reflective,
    Than is our to-day and to-morrow.


    52
    Our time is like a sick woman--
    Let her but shriek, rave, scold,
    And break the tables and dishes!


    54

    Ye mount?
    Is it true that ye mount,
    Ye loftier men?

    Are ye not, pray,
    Like to a ball
    Sped to the heights
    By the lowest that's in you?
    Do ye not flee from yourselves, O ye climbers?


    55

    All that you thought
    You had to despise,
    Where you only renounced!


    56

    All men repeat the refrain!
    No, no, and thrice say No!
    What's all this yap-yap talk of heaven?
    We would not enter the kingdom of heaven,
    The kingdom of earth shall be ours?


    57

    The will redeemeth,
    He that has nothing to do
    In a Nothing finds food for trouble.


    58

    You cannot endure it more,
    Your tyrannous destiny,
    Love it--you're given no choice!


    59

    These alone free us from woes
    (Choose now I)
    Sudden death
    Or long-drawn-out love.


    60

    Of death we are sure,
    So why not be merry?


    61

    The worst of pleas
    I have hidden from you--that life grew tedious!
    Throw it away, that ye find it again to your taste!


    62

    Lonely days,
    Ye must walk on valorous feet!


    63

    Loneliness
    Plants naught, it ripens....
    And even then you must have the sun for your
    friend.


    64

    Once more must ye plunge in the throng--In
    the throng ye grow hard and smooth.
    Solitude withers
    And lastly destroys.--


    65

    When on the hermit comes the great fear;
    When he runs and runs
    And knows not whither;
    When the storms roar behind
    And the lightning bears witness against him,
    And his cavern breeds spectres
    And fills him with dread.


    67

    Throw thy pain in the depths,
    Man, forget! Man, forget!
    Divine is the art of forgetting!
    Wouldst fly?
    Wouldst feel at home in the heights?
    Throw thy heaviest load in the sea!
    Here is the sea, hurl thyself in the sea!
    Divine is the art of forgetting!


    69

    Look forward, never look back!
    We sink to the depths
    If we peer ever into the depths.


    70

    Beware, beware
    Of warning the reckless!
    Thy warning will drive them
    To leap into every abyss!

    71

    Why hurled he himself from the heights?
    What led him astray?
    His pity for all that is lowly led him astray,
    And now he lies there, broken, useless, and cold.

    72

    Whither went he? Who knows?
    We only know that he sank.
    A star went out in the desolate void,
    And lone was the void.


    73

    What we have not
    But need,
    We must take.
    And so a good conscience I took.


    74

    Who is there that could bestow right upon thee?
    So take thy right!


    75

    O ye waves,
    Wondrous waves, are ye wroth with me?
    Do ye raise me your crests in wrath?
    With my rudder I smite
    Your folly full square.
    This bark ye yourselves
    To immortal life will carry along.


    77

    When no new voice was heard,
    Ye made from old words
    A law:
    When life grows stark, there shoots up the law.


    78

    What none can refute
    Ye say must be true?
    Oh, ye innocents!


    79

    Art thou strong?
    Strong as an ass? Strong as God?
    Art thou proud?
    So proud as to flaunt
    Unashamed thy conceit?


    80

    Beware,
    And ne'er beat the drum
    Of thy destiny I
    Go out of the way
    From all pom-pom of fame!
        *    *    *    *
    Be not known too soon!
    Be one that has hoarded renown!


    81

    Wilt thou grasp at the thorns?
    Thy fingers must pay.
    Grasp at a poniard.


    85

    Be a tablet of gold,
    They will grave upon thee
    In golden script.


    86

    Upright he stands
    With more sense of "justice"
    In his outermost toe
    Than I have in all my head.
    A virtue-monster
    Mantled in white.


    87

    Already he mimics himself,
    Already weary he grows,
    Already he seeks the paths he has trod--
    Who of late still loved all tracks untrodden!

    Secretly burnt--
    Not for his faith,
    Rather because he had lost the heart
    To find new faith.


    88

    Too long he sat in the cage,
    That runaway!
    Too long he dreaded
    A gaoler!

    Timorous now he goeth his ways,
    All things make him to stumble--
    The shadow e'en of a stick makes him to stumble.


    89

    Ye chambers smoky and musty,
    Ye cages and narrow hearts,
    How could your spirit be free?


    90

    Narrow souls!
    Huckster-souls!
    When money leaps into the box
    The soul leaps into it too![2]


    92

    Are ye women,
    That ye wish to suffer
    From that which ye love?


    99

    They are cold, these men of learning!
    Would that a lightning-flash might strike their food,
    And their mouths could learn to eat fire!


    101

    Your false love
    For the past,
    A love for the graves of the dead,
    Is a theft from life
    That steals all the future.
        *    *    *    *
    An antiquary
    Is a craftsman of dead things,
    Who lives among coffins and skeletons.


    103

    Only the poet who can lie
    Wilfully, skilfully,
    Can tell the truth.


    104

    Our chase after truth,
    Is't a chase after happiness?


    105

    Truth
    Is a woman, no better,
    Cunning in her shame:
    Of what she likes best
    She will know naught,
    And covers her face....
    To what doth she yield
    But to violence?
    Violence she needs.
    Be hard, ye sages!
    Ye must compel her,
    That shamefaced Truth....
    For her happiness
    She needs constraint--She
    is a woman, no better.


    106

    We thought evil of each other?
    We were too distant,
    But now in this tiny hut,
    Pinned to one destiny,
    How could we still be foes?
    We must needs love those
    Whom we cannot escape.


    107

    Love thy foe,
    Let the robber rob thee:
    The woman hears and--does it.


    110

    A proud eye
    With silken curtains,
    Seldom clear,
    Honours him that may see it unveiled.


    111

    Sluggard eyes
    That seldom love--
    But when they love, the levin flashes
    As from shafts of gold
    Where a dagger keeps guard at the treasure of love.


    117

    They are crabs, for whom I have no fellow-feeling.
    Grasp them, they pinch you;
    Leave them alone, and they walk backward.


    119

    Crooked go great rivers and men,
    Crooked, but turned to their goal;
    That is their highest courage,
    They dreaded not crooked paths.


    121

    Wouldst catch them?
    Then speak to them
    As to stray sheep:
    "Your path, your path
    You have lost!"
    They follow all
    That flatter them so:
    "What? had we a path?"
    Each whispers the other:
    "It really seems that we have a path."









AUTHOR’S PREFACE.


In this book we find a “subterrestrial” at work, digging, mining,
undermining. You can see him, always provided that you have eyes for such
deep work,—how he makes his way slowly, cautiously, gently but surely,
without showing signs of the weariness that usually accompanies a long
privation of light and air. He might even be called happy, despite his
labours in the dark. Does it not seem as if some faith were leading him
on, some solace recompensing him for his toil? Or that he himself desires
a long period of darkness, an unintelligible, hidden, enigmatic something,
knowing as he does that he will in time have his own morning, his own
redemption, his own rosy dawn?—Yea, verily he will return: ask him not
what he seeketh in the depths; for he himself will tell you, this apparent
Trophonius and subterrestrial, whensoever he once again becomes man. One
easily unlearns how to hold one’s tongue when one has for so long been a
mole, and all alone, like him.—




2.


Indeed, my indulgent friends, I will tell you—here, in this late
preface,(1) which might easily have become an obituary or a funeral
oration—what I sought in the depths below: for I have come back, and—I
have escaped. Think not that I will urge you to run the same perilous
risk! or that I will urge you on even to the same solitude! For whoever
proceeds on his own path meets nobody: this is the feature of one’s “own
path.” No one comes to help him in his task: he must face everything quite
alone—danger, bad luck, wickedness, foul weather. He goes his own way;
and, as is only right, meets with bitterness and occasional irritation
because he pursues this “own way” of his: for instance, the knowledge that
not even his friends can guess who he is and whither he is going, and that
they ask themselves now and then: “Well? Is he really moving at all? Has
he still ... a path before him?”—At that time I had undertaken something
which could not have been done by everybody: I went down into the deepest
depths; I tunnelled to the very bottom; I started to investigate and
unearth an old _faith_ which for thousands of years we philosophers used
to build on as the safest of all foundations—which we built on again and
again although every previous structure fell in: I began to undermine our
_faith in morals_. But ye do not understand me?—




3.


So far it is on Good and Evil that we have meditated least profoundly:
this was always too dangerous a subject. Conscience, a good reputation,
hell, and at times even the police, have not allowed and do not allow of
impartiality; in the presence of morality, as before all authority, we
_must_ not even think, much less speak: here we must obey! Ever since the
beginning of the world, no authority has permitted itself to be made the
subject of criticism; and to criticise morals—to look upon morality as a
problem, as problematic—what! was that not—_is_ that not—immoral?—But
morality has at its disposal not only every means of intimidation
wherewith to keep itself free from critical hands and instruments of
torture: its security lies rather in a certain art of enchantment, in
which it is a past master—it knows how to “enrapture.” It can often
paralyse the critical will with a single look, or even seduce it to
itself: yea, there are even cases where morality can turn the critical
will against itself; so that then, like the scorpion, it thrusts the sting
into its own body. Morality has for ages been an expert in all kinds of
devilry in the art of convincing: even at the present day there is no
orator who would not turn to it for assistance (only hearken to our
anarchists, for instance: how morally they speak when they would fain
convince! In the end they even call themselves “the good and the just”).
Morality has shown herself to be the greatest mistress of seduction ever
since men began to discourse and persuade on earth—and, what concerns us
philosophers even more, she is the veritable _Circe of philosophers_. For,
to what is it due that, from Plato onwards, all the philosophic architects
in Europe have built in vain? that everything which they themselves
honestly believed to be _aere perennius_ threatens to subside or is
already laid in ruins? Oh, how wrong is the answer which, even in our own
day, rolls glibly off the tongue when this question is asked: “Because
they have all neglected the prerequisite, the examination of the
foundation, a critique of all reason”—that fatal answer made by Kant, who
has certainly not thereby attracted us modern philosophers to firmer and
less treacherous ground! (and, one may ask apropos of this, was it not
rather strange to demand that an instrument should criticise its own value
and effectiveness? that the intellect itself should “recognise” its own
worth, power, and limits? was it not even just a little ridiculous?) The
right answer would rather have been, that all philosophers, including Kant
himself were building under the seductive influence of morality—that they
aimed at certainty and “truth” only in appearance; but that in reality
their attention was directed towards “_majestic moral edifices_,” to use
once more Kant’s innocent mode of expression, who deems it his “less
brilliant, but not undeserving” task and work “to level the ground and
prepare a solid foundation for the erection of those majestic moral
edifices” (_Critique of Pure Reason_, ii. 257). Alas! He did not succeed
in his aim, quite the contrary—as we must acknowledge to-day. With this
exalted aim, Kant was merely a true son of his century, which more than
any other may justly be called the century of exaltation: and this he
fortunately continued to be in respect to the more valuable side of this
century (with that solid piece of sensuality, for example, which he
introduced into his theory of knowledge). He, too, had been bitten by the
moral tarantula, Rousseau; he, too, felt weighing on his soul that moral
fanaticism of which another disciple of Rousseau’s, Robespierre, felt and
proclaimed himself to be the executor: _de fonder sur la terre l’empire de
la sagesse, de la justice, et de la vertu_. (Speech of June 4th, 1794.) On
the other hand, with such a French fanaticism in his heart, no one could
have cultivated it in a less French, more deep, more thorough and more
German manner—if the word German is still permissible in this sense—than
Kant did: in order to make room for _his_ “moral kingdom,” he found
himself compelled to add to it an indemonstrable world, a logical
“beyond”—that was why he required his critique of pure reason! In other
words, _he would not have wanted it_, if he had not deemed one thing to be
more important than all the others: to render his moral kingdom
unassailable by—or, better still, invisible to, reason,—for he felt too
strongly the vulnerability of a moral order of things in the face of
reason. For, when confronted with nature and history, when confronted with
the ingrained _immorality_ of nature and history, Kant was, like all good
Germans from the earliest times, a pessimist: he believed in morality, not
because it is demonstrated through nature and history, but despite its
being steadily contradicted by them. To understand this “despite,” we
should perhaps recall a somewhat similar trait in Luther, that other great
pessimist, who once urged it upon his friends with true Lutheran audacity:
“If we could conceive by reason alone how that God who shows so much wrath
and malignity could be merciful and just, what use should we have for
faith?” For, from the earliest times, nothing has ever made a deeper
impression upon the German soul, nothing has ever “tempted” it more, than
that deduction, the most dangerous of all, which for every true Latin is a
sin against the intellect: _credo quia absurdum est_.—With it German logic
enters for the first time into the history of Christian dogma; but even
to-day, a thousand years later, we Germans of the present, late Germans in
every way, catch the scent of truth, a _possibility_ of truth, at the back
of the famous fundamental principle of dialectics with which Hegel secured
the victory of the German spirit over Europe—“contradiction moves the
world; all things contradict themselves.” We are pessimists—even in logic.




4.


But logical judgments are not the deepest and most fundamental to which
the daring of our suspicion descends: the confidence in reason which is
inseparable from the validity of these judgments, is, as confidence, a
_moral_ phenomenon ... perhaps German pessimism has yet to take its last
step? Perhaps it has once more to draw up its “credo” opposite its
“absurdum” in a terrible manner? And if this book is pessimistic even in
regard to morals, even above the confidence in morals—should it not be a
German book for that very reason? For, in fact, it represents a
contradiction, and one which it does not fear: in it confidence in morals
is retracted—but why? Out of _morality_! Or how shall we call that which
takes place in it—in _us_? for our taste inclines to the employment of
more modest phrases. But there is no doubt that to us likewise there
speaketh a “thou shalt”; we likewise obey a strict law which is set above
us—and this is the last cry of morals which is still audible to us, which
we too must _live_: here, if anywhere, are we still _men of conscience_,
because, to put the matter in plain words, we will not return to that
which we look upon as decayed, outlived, and superseded, we will not
return to something “unworthy of belief,” whether it be called God,
virtue, truth, justice, love of one’s neighbour, or what not; we will not
permit ourselves to open up a lying path to old ideals; we are thoroughly
and unalterably opposed to anything that would intercede and mingle with
us; opposed to all forms of present-day faith and Christianity; opposed to
the lukewarmness of all romanticism and fatherlandism; opposed also to the
artistic sense of enjoyment and lack of principle which would fain make us
worship where we no longer believe—for we are artists—opposed, in short,
to all this European feminism (or idealism, if this term be thought
preferable) which everlastingly “draws upward,” and which in consequence
everlastingly “lowers” and “degrades.” Yet, being men of _this_
conscience, we feel that we are related to that German uprightness and
piety which dates back thousands of years, although we immoralists and
atheists may be the late and uncertain offspring of these virtues—yea, we
even consider ourselves, in a certain respect, as their heirs, the
executors of their inmost will: a pessimistic will, as I have already
pointed out, which is not afraid to deny itself, because it denies itself
with _joy_! In us is consummated, if you desire a formula—_the
autosuppression of morals_.




5.


But, after all, why must we proclaim so loudly and with such intensity
what we are, what we want, and what we do not want? Let us look at this
more calmly and wisely; from a higher and more distant point of view. Let
us proclaim it, as if among ourselves, in so low a tone that all the world
fails to hear it and _us_! Above all, however, let us say it _slowly_....
This preface comes late, but not too late: what, after all, do five or six
years matter? Such a book, and such a problem, are in no hurry; besides,
we are friends of the _lento_, I and my book. I have not been a
philologist in vain—perhaps I am one yet: a teacher of slow reading. I
even come to write slowly. At present it is not only my habit, but even my
taste—a perverted taste, maybe—to write nothing but what will drive to
despair every one who is “in a hurry.” For philology is that venerable art
which exacts from its followers one thing above all—to step to one side,
to leave themselves spare moments, to grow silent, to become slow—the
leisurely art of the goldsmith applied to language: an art which must
carry out slow, fine work, and attains nothing if not _lento_. For this
very reason philology is now more desirable than ever before; for this
very reason it is the highest attraction and incitement in an age of
“work”: that is to say, of haste, of unseemly and immoderate hurry-skurry,
which is intent upon “getting things done” at once, even every book,
whether old or new. Philology itself, perhaps, will not “get things done”
so hurriedly: it teaches how to read _well_: _i.e._ slowly, profoundly,
attentively, prudently, with inner thoughts, with the mental doors ajar,
with delicate fingers and eyes ... my patient friends, this book appeals
only to perfect readers and philologists: _learn_ to read me well!

RUTA, NEAR GENOA,

_Autumn_, 1886.





BOOK I.




1.


SUBSEQUENT JUDGMENT.—All things that endure for a long time are little by
little so greatly permeated by reason that their origin in unreason
becomes improbable. Does not almost every exact statement of an origin
strike us as paradoxical and sacrilegious? Indeed, does not the true
historian constantly contradict?




2.


PREJUDICE OF THE LEARNED.—Savants are quite correct in maintaining the
proposition that men in all ages believed that they _knew_ what was good
and evil, praiseworthy and blamable. But it is a prejudice of the learned
to say _that we now know it better_ than any other age.




3.


A TIME FOR EVERYTHING.—When man assigned a sex to all things, he did not
believe that he was merely playing; but he thought, on the contrary, that
he had acquired a profound insight:—it was only at a much later period,
and then only partly, that he acknowledged the enormity of his error. In
the same way, man has attributed a moral relationship to everything that
exists, throwing the cloak of _ethical significance_ over the world’s
shoulders. One day all that will be of just as much value, and no more, as
the amount of belief existing to-day in the masculinity or femininity of
the sun.(2)




4.


AGAINST THE FANCIFUL DISHARMONY OF THE SPHERES.—We must once more sweep
out of the world all this _false_ grandeur, for it is contrary to the
justice that all things about us may claim. And for this reason we must
not see or wish the world to be more disharmonic than it is!




5.


BE THANKFUL!—The most important result of the past efforts of humanity is
that we need no longer go about in continual fear of wild beasts,
barbarians, gods, and our own dreams.




6.


THE JUGGLER AND HIS COUNTERPART.—That which is wonderful in science is
contrary to that which is wonderful in the art of the juggler. For the
latter would wish to make us believe that we see a very simple causality,
where, in reality, an exceedingly complex causality is in operation.
Science, on the other hand, forces us to give up our belief in the simple
causality exactly where everything looks so easily comprehensible and we
are merely the victims of appearances. The simplest things are _very
_“complicated”—we can never be sufficiently astonished at them!




7.


RECONCEIVING OUR FEELING OF SPACE.—Is it real or imaginary things which
have built up the greater proportion of man’s happiness? It is certain, at
all events, that the extent of the distance between the highest point of
happiness and the lowest point of unhappiness has been established only
with the help of imaginary things. As a consequence, _this_ kind of a
conception of space is always, under the influence of science, becoming
smaller and smaller: in the same way as science has taught us, and is
still teaching us, to look upon the earth as small—yea, to look upon the
entire solar system as a mere point.




8.


TRANSFIGURATION.—Perplexed sufferers, confused dreamers, the hysterically
ecstatic—here we have the three classes into which Raphael divided
mankind. We no longer consider the world in this light—and Raphael himself
dare not do so: his own eyes would show him a new transfiguration.




9.


CONCEPTION OF THE MORALITY OF CUSTOM.—In comparison with the mode of life
which prevailed among men for thousands of years, we men of the present
day are living in a very immoral age: the power of custom has been
weakened to a remarkable degree, and the sense of morality is so refined
and elevated that we might almost describe it as volatilised. That is why
we late comers experience such difficulty in obtaining a fundamental
conception of the origin of morality: and even if we do obtain it, our
words of explanation stick in our throats, so coarse would they sound if
we uttered them! or to so great an extent would they seem to be a slander
upon morality! Thus, for example, the fundamental clause: morality is
nothing else (and, above all, nothing more) than obedience to customs, of
whatsoever nature they may be. But customs are simply the traditional way
of acting and valuing. Where there is no tradition there is no morality;
and the less life is governed by tradition, the narrower the circle of
morality. The free man is immoral, because it is his _will_ to depend upon
himself and not upon tradition: in all the primitive states of humanity
“evil” is equivalent to “individual,” “free,” “arbitrary,” “unaccustomed,”
“unforeseen,” “incalculable.” In such primitive conditions, always
measured by this standard, any action performed—_not_ because tradition
commands it, but for other reasons (_e.g._ on account of its individual
utility), even for the same reasons as had been formerly established by
custom—is termed immoral, and is felt to be so even by the very man who
performs it, for it has not been done out of obedience to the tradition.

What is tradition? A higher authority, which is obeyed, not because it
commands what is useful to us, but merely because it commands. And in what
way can this feeling for tradition be distinguished from a general feeling
of fear? It is the fear of a higher intelligence which commands, the fear
of an incomprehensible power, of something that is more than
personal—there is _superstition_ in this fear. In primitive times the
domain of morality included education and hygienics, marriage, medicine,
agriculture, war, speech and silence, the relationship between man and
man, and between man and the gods—morality required that a man should
observe her prescriptions without thinking of _himself_ as individual.
Everything, therefore, was originally custom, and whoever wished to raise
himself above it, had first of all to make himself a kind of lawgiver and
medicine-man, a sort of demi-god—in other words, he had to create customs,
a dangerous and fearful thing to do!—Who is the most moral man? On the one
hand, he who most frequently obeys the law: _e.g._ he who, like the
Brahmins, carries a consciousness of the law about with him wherever he
may go, and introduces it into the smallest divisions of time, continually
exercising his mind in finding opportunities for obeying the law. On the
other hand, he who obeys the law in the most difficult cases. The most
moral man is he who makes the greatest _sacrifices_ to morality; but what
are the greatest sacrifices? In answering this question several different
kinds of morality will be developed: but the distinction between the
morality of the _most frequent obedience_ and the morality of the _most
difficult obedience_ is of the greatest importance. Let us not be deceived
as to the motives of that moral law which requires, as an indication of
morality, obedience to custom in the most difficult cases! Self-conquest
is required, not by reason of its useful consequences for the individual;
but that custom and tradition may appear to be dominant, in spite of all
individual counter desires and advantages. The individual shall sacrifice
himself—so demands the morality of custom.

On the other hand, those moralists who, like the followers of Socrates,
recommend self-control and sobriety to the _individual_ as his greatest
possible advantage and the key to his greatest personal happiness, are
_exceptions_—and if we ourselves do not think so, this is simply due to
our having been brought up under their influence. They all take a new
path, and thereby bring down upon themselves the utmost disapproval of all
the representatives of the morality of custom. They sever their connection
with the community, as immoralists, and are, in the fullest sense of the
word, evil ones. In the same way, every Christian who “sought, above all
things, his _own_ salvation,” must have seemed evil to a virtuous Roman of
the old school. Wherever a community exists, and consequently also a
morality of custom, the feeling prevails that any punishment for the
violation of a custom is inflicted, above all, on the community: this
punishment is a supernatural punishment, the manifestations and limits of
which are so difficult to understand, and are investigated with such
superstitious fear. The community can compel any one member of it to make
good, either to an individual or to the community itself, any ill
consequences which may have followed upon such a member’s action. It can
also call down a sort of vengeance upon the head of the individual by
endeavouring to show that, as the result of his action, a storm of divine
anger has burst over the community,—but, above all, it regards the guilt
of the individual more particularly as _its own_ guilt, and bears the
punishment of the isolated individual as its own punishment—“Morals,” they
bewail in their innermost heart, “morals have grown lax, if such deeds as
these are possible.” And every individual action, every individual mode of
thinking, causes dread. It is impossible to determine how much the more
select, rare, and original minds must have suffered in the course of time
by being considered as evil and dangerous, _yea, because they even looked
upon themselves as such_. Under the dominating influence of the morality
of custom, originality of every kind came to acquire a bad conscience; and
even now the sky of the best minds seems to be more overcast by this
thought than it need be.




10.


COUNTER-MOTION BETWEEN THE SENSE OF MORALITY AND THE SENSE OF
CAUSALITY.—As the sense of causality increases, so does the extent of the
domain of morality decrease: for every time one has been able to grasp the
necessary effects, and to conceive them as distinct from all incidentals
and chance possibilities (_post hoc_), one has, at the same time,
destroyed an enormous number of _imaginary causalities_, which had
hitherto been believed in as the basis of morals—the real world is much
smaller than the world of our imagination—and each time also one casts
away a certain amount of one’s anxiousness and coercion, and some of our
reverence for the authority of custom is lost: morality in general
undergoes a diminution. He who, on the other hand, wishes to increase it
must know how to prevent results from becoming controllable.




11.


MORALS AND MEDICINES OF THE PEOPLE.—Every one is continuously occupied in
bringing more or less influence to bear upon the morals which prevail in a
community: most of the people bring forward example after example to show
the _alleged relationship between cause and effect_, guilt and punishment,
thus upholding it as well founded and adding to the belief in it. A few
make new observations upon the actions and their consequences, drawing
conclusions therefrom and laying down laws; a smaller number raise
objections and allow belief in these things to become weakened.—But they
are all alike in the crude and _unscientific_ manner in which they set
about their work: if it is a question of objections to a law, or examples
or observations of it, or of its proof, confirmation, expression or
refutation, we always find the material and method entirely valueless, as
valueless as the material and form of all popular medicine. Popular
medicines and popular morals are closely related, and should not be
considered and valued, as is still customary, in so different a way: both
are most dangerous and make-believe sciences.




12.


CONSEQUENCE AS ADJUVANT CAUSE.—Formerly the consequences of an action were
considered, not as the result of that action, but a voluntary
adjuvant—_i.e._ on the part of God. Can a greater confusion be imagined?
Entirely different practices and means have to be brought into use for
actions and effects!




13.


TOWARDS THE NEW EDUCATION OF MANKIND.—Help us, all ye who are
well-disposed and willing to assist, lend your aid in the endeavour to do
away with that conception of punishment which has swept over the whole
world! No weed more harmful than this! It is not only to the consequences
of our actions that this conception has been applied—and how horrible and
senseless it is to confuse cause and effect with cause and punishment!—but
worse has followed: the pure accidentality of events has been robbed of
its innocence by this execrable manner of interpreting conception of
punishment. Yea, they have even pushed their folly to such extremes that
they would have us look upon existence itself as a punishment—from which
it would appear that the education of mankind had hitherto been confided
to cranky gaolers and hangmen.




14.


THE SIGNIFICATION OF MADNESS IN THE HISTORY OF MORALITY.—If, despite that
formidable pressure of the “morality of custom,” under which all human
communities lived—thousands of years before our own era, and during our
own era up to the present day (we ourselves are dwelling in the small
world of exceptions, and, as it were, in an evil zone):—if, I say, in
spite of all this, new and divergent ideas, valuations, and impulses have
made their appearance time after time, this state of things has been
brought about only with the assistance of a dreadful associate: it was
insanity almost everywhere that paved the way for the new thought and cast
off the spell of an old custom and superstition. Do ye understand why this
had to be done through insanity? by something which is in both voice and
appearance as horrifying and incalculable as the demoniac whims of wind
and sea, and consequently calling for like dread and respect? by something
bearing upon it the signs of entire lack of consciousness as clearly as
the convulsions and foam of the epileptic, which appeared to typify the
insane person as the mask and speaking-trumpet of some divine being? by
something that inspired even the bearer of the new thought with awe and
fear of himself, and that, suppressing all remorse, drove him on to become
its prophet and martyr?—Well, in our own time, we continually hear the
statement reiterated that genius is tinctured with madness instead of good
sense. Men of earlier ages were far more inclined to believe that,
wherever traces of insanity showed themselves, a certain proportion of
genius and wisdom was likewise present—something “divine,” as they
whispered to one another. More than this, they expressed their opinions on
the point with sufficient emphasis. “All the greatest benefits of Greece
have sprung from madness,” said Plato, setting on record the opinion of
the entire ancient world. Let us take a step further: all those superior
men, who felt themselves irresistibly urged on to throw off the yoke of
some morality or other, had no other resource—_if they were not really
mad_—than to feign madness, or actually to become insane. And this holds
good for innovators in every department of life, and not only in religion
and politics. Even the reformer of the poetic metre was forced to justify
himself by means of madness. (Thus even down to gentler ages madness
remained a kind of convention in poets, of which Solon, for instance, took
advantage when urging the Athenians to reconquer Salamis.)—“How can one
make one’s self mad when one is not mad and dare not feign to be so?”
Almost all the eminent men of antiquity have given themselves up to this
dreadful mode of reasoning: a secret doctrine of artifices and dietetic
jugglery grew up around this subject and was handed down from generation
to generation, together with the feeling of the innocence, even sanctity,
of such plans and meditations. The means of becoming a medicine-man among
the Indians, a saint among Christians of the Middle Ages, an angecok among
Greenlanders, a Pagee among Brazilians, are the same in essence: senseless
fasting, continual abstention from sexual intercourse, isolation in a
wilderness, ascending a mountain or a pillar, “sitting on an aged willow
that looks out upon a lake,” and thinking of absolutely nothing but what
may give rise to ecstasy or mental derangements.

Who would dare to glance at the desert of the bitterest and most
superfluous agonies of spirit, in which probably the most productive men
of all ages have pined away? Who could listen to the sighs of those lonely
and troubled minds: “O ye heavenly powers, grant me madness! Madness, that
I at length may believe in myself! Vouchsafe delirium and convulsions,
sudden flashes of light and periods of darkness; frighten me with such
shivering and feverishness as no mortal ever experienced before, with
clanging noises and haunting spectres; let me growl and whine and creep
about like a beast, if only I can come to believe in myself! I am devoured
by doubt. I have slain the law, and I now dread the law as a living person
dreads a corpse. If I am not _above_ the law, I am the most abandoned of
wretches. Whence cometh this new spirit that dwelleth within me but from
you? Prove to me, then, that I am one of you—nothing but madness will
prove it to me.” And only too often does such a fervour attain its object:
at the very time when Christianity was giving the greatest proof of its
fertility in the production of saints and martyrs, believing that it was
thus proving itself, Jerusalem contained large lunatic asylums for
shipwrecked saints, for those whose last spark of good sense had been
quenched by the floods of insanity.




15.


THE MOST ANCIENT MEANS OF SOLACE.—First stage: In every misfortune or
discomfort man sees something for which he must make somebody else suffer,
no matter who—in this way he finds out the amount of power still remaining
to him; and this consoles him. Second stage: In every misfortune or
discomfort, man sees a punishment, _i.e._ an expiation of guilt and the
means by which he may get rid of the malicious enchantment of a real or
apparent wrong. When he perceives the _advantage_ which misfortune bring
with it, he believes he need no longer make another person suffer for
it—he gives up this kind of satisfaction, because he now has another.




16.


FIRST PRINCIPLE OF CIVILISATION.—Among savage tribes there is a certain
category of customs which appear to aim at nothing but custom. They
therefore lay down strict, and, on the whole, superfluous regulations
(_e.g._ the rules of the Kamchadales, which forbid snow to be scraped off
the boots with a knife, coal to be stuck on the point of a knife, or a
piece of iron to be put into the fire—and death to be the portion of every
one who shall act contrariwise!) Yet these laws serve to keep people
continually reminded of the custom, and the imperative necessity on their
parts to conform to it: and all this in support of the great principle
which stands at the beginning of all civilisation: any custom is better
than none.




17.


GOODNESS AND MALIGNITY.—At first men imposed their own personalities on
Nature: everywhere they saw themselves and their like, _i.e._ their own
evil and capricious temperaments, hidden, as it were, behind clouds,
thunder-storms, wild beasts, trees, and plants: it was then that they
declared Nature was evil. Afterwards there came a time, that of Rousseau,
when they sought to distinguish themselves from Nature: they were so tired
of each other that they wished to have separate little hiding-places where
man and his misery could not penetrate: then they invented “nature is
good.”




18.


THE MORALITY OF VOLUNTARY SUFFERING.—What is the highest enjoyment for men
living in a state of war in a small community, the existence of which is
continually threatened, and the morality of which is the strictest
possible? _i.e._ for souls which are vigorous, vindictive, malicious, full
of suspicion, ready to face the direst events, hardened by privation and
morality? The enjoyment of cruelty: just as, in such souls and in such
circumstances, it would be regarded as a virtue to be ingenious and
insatiable in cruelty. Such a community would find its delight in
performing cruel deeds, casting aside, for once, the gloom of constant
anxiety and precaution. Cruelty is one of the most ancient enjoyments at
their festivities. As a consequence it is believed that the gods likewise
are pleased by the sight of cruelty and rejoice at it—and in this way the
belief is spread that _voluntary suffering_, self-chosen martyrdom, has a
high signification and value of its own. In the community custom gradually
brings about a practice in conformity with this belief: henceforward
people become more suspicious of all exuberant well-being, and more
confident as they find themselves in a state of great pain; they think
that the gods may be unfavourable to them on account of happiness, and
favourable on account of pain—not compassionate! For compassion is looked
upon with contempt, and unworthy of a strong and awe-inspiring soul—but
agreeable to them, because the sight of human suffering put these gods
into good humour and makes them feel powerful, and a cruel mind revels in
the sensation of power. It was thus that the “most moral man” of the
community was considered as such by virtue of his frequent suffering,
privation, laborious existence, and cruel mortification—not, to repeat it
again and again, as a means of discipline or self-control or a desire for
individual happiness—but a a virtue which renders the evil gods
well-disposed towards the community, a virtue which continually wafts up
to them the odour of an expiatory sacrifice. All those intellectual
leaders of the nations who reached the point of being able to stir up the
sluggish though prolific mire of their customs had to possess this factor
of voluntary martyrdom as well as insanity in order to obtain
belief—especially, and above all, as is always the case, belief in
themselves! The more their minds followed new paths, and were consequently
tormented by pricks of conscience, the more cruelly they battled against
their own flesh, their own desires, and their own health—as if they were
offering the gods a compensation in pleasure, lest these gods should wax
wroth at the neglect of ancient customs and the setting up of new aims.

Let no one be too hasty in thinking that we have now entirely freed
ourselves from such a logic of feeling! Let the most heroic souls among us
question themselves on this very point. The least step forward in the
domain of free thought and individual life has been achieved in all ages
to the accompaniment of physical and intellectual tortures: and not only
the mere step forward, no! but every form of movement and change has
rendered necessary innumerable martyrs, throughout the entire course of
thousands of years which sought their paths and laid down their
foundation-stones, years, however, which we do not think of when we speak
about “world-history,” that ridiculously small division of mankind’s
existence. And even in this so-called world-history, which in the main is
merely a great deal of noise about the latest novelties, there is no more
important theme than the old, old tragedy of the martyrs _who tried to
move the mire_. Nothing has been more dearly bought than the minute
portion of human reason and feeling of liberty upon which we now pride
ourselves. But it is this very pride which makes it almost impossible for
us to-day to be conscious of that enormous lapse of time, preceding the
period of “world-history” when “morality of custom” held the field, and to
consider this lapse of time as _the real and decisive epoch that
established the character of mankind_: an epoch when suffering was
considered as a virtue, cruelty as a virtue, hypocrisy as a virtue,
revenge as a virtue, and the denial of the reason as a virtue, whereas, on
the other hand, well-being was regarded as a danger, longing for knowledge
as a danger, peace as a danger, compassion as a danger: an epoch when
being pitied was looked upon as an insult, work as an insult, madness as a
divine attribute, and every kind of change as immoral and pregnant with
ruin! You imagine that all this has changed, and that humanity must
likewise have changed its character? Oh, ye poor psychologists, learn to
know yourselves better!




19.


MORALITY AND STUPEFACTION.—Custom represents the experiences of men of
earlier times in regard to what they considered as useful and harmful; but
the _feeling of custom_ (morality) does not relate to these feelings as
such, but to the age, the sanctity, and the unquestioned authority of the
custom. Hence this feeling hinders our acquiring new experiences and
amending morals: _i.e._ morality is opposed to the formation of new and
better morals: it stupefies.




20.


FREE-DOERS AND FREE-THINKERS.—Compared with free-thinkers, free-doers are
at a disadvantage, because it is evident that men suffer more from the
consequences of actions than of thoughts. If we remember, however, that
both seek their own satisfaction, and that free-thinkers have already
found their satisfaction in reflection upon and utterance of forbidden
things, there is no difference in the motives; but in respect of the
consequences the issue will be decided against the free-thinker, provided
that it be not judged from the most superficial and vulgar external
appearance, _i.e._ not as every one would judge it. We must make up for a
good deal of the calumny with which men have covered all those who have,
by their actions, broken away from the authority of some custom—they are
generally called criminals. Every one who has hitherto overthrown a law of
established morality has always at first been considered as a _wicked
man_: but when it was afterwards found impossible to re-establish the law,
and people gradually became accustomed to the change, the epithet was
changed by slow degrees. History deals almost exclusively with these
_wicked men_, who later on came to be recognised as _good men_.




21.


“FULFILMENT OF THE LAW.”—In cases where the observance of a moral precept
has led to different consequence from that expected and promised, and does
not bestow upon the moral man the happiness he had hoped for, but leads
rather to misfortune and misery, the conscientious and timid man has
always his excuse ready: “Something was lacking in the proper _carrying
out_ of the law.” If the worst comes to the worst, a deeply-suffering and
down-trodden humanity will even decree: “It is impossible to carry out the
precept faithfully: we are too weak and sinful, and, in the depths of our
soul, incapable of morality: consequently we have no claim to happiness
and success. Moral precepts and promises have been given for better beings
than ourselves.”




22.


WORKS AND FAITH.—Protestant teachers are still spreading the fundamental
error that faith only is of consequence, and that works must follow
naturally upon faith. This doctrine is certainly not true, but it is so
seductive in appearance that it has succeeded in fascinating quite other
intellects than that of Luther (_e.g._ the minds of Socrates and Plato):
though the plain evidence and experience of our daily life prove the
contrary. The most assured knowledge and faith cannot give us either the
strength or the dexterity required for action, or the practice in that
subtle and complicated mechanism which is a prerequisite for anything to
be changed from an idea into action. Then, I say, let us first and
foremost have works! and this means practice! practice! practice! The
necessary faith will come later—be certain of that!




23.


IN WHAT RESPECT WE ARE MOST SUBTLE.—By the fact that, for thousands of
years, _things_ (nature, tools, property of all kinds) were thought to be
alive and to possess souls, and able to hinder and interfere with the
designs of man, the feeling of impotence among men has become greater and
more frequent than it need have been: for one had to secure one’s things
like men and beasts, by means of force, compulsion, flattery, treaties,
sacrifices—and it is here that we may find the origin of the greater
number of superstitious customs, _i.e._ of an important, _perhaps
paramount_, and nevertheless wasted and useless division of mankind’s
activity!—But since the feeling of impotence and fear was so strong, and
for such a length of time in a state of constant stimulation, the feeling
of _power_ in man has been developed in so subtle a manner that, in this
respect, he can compare favourably with the most delicately-adjusted
balance. This feeling has become his strongest propensity: and the means
he discovered for creating it form almost the entire history of culture.




24.


THE PROOF OF A PRECEPT.—The worth or worthlessness of a recipe—that for
baking bread, for example—is proved, generally speaking, by the result
expected coming to pass or not, provided, of course, that the directions
given have been carefully followed. The case is different, however, when
we come to deal with moral precepts, for here the results cannot be
ascertained, interpreted, and divined. These precepts, indeed, are based
upon hypotheses of but little scientific value, the proof or refutation of
which by means of results is impossible:—but in former ages, when all
science was crude and primitive, and when a matter was _taken for granted_
on the smallest evidence, then the worth or worthlessness of a moral
recipe was determined as we now determine any other precept: by reference
to the results. If the natives of Alaska believe in a command which says:
“Thou shalt not throw a bone into the fire or give it to a dog,” this will
be proved by the warning: “If thou dost thou wilt have no luck when
hunting.” Yet, in one sense or another, it almost invariably happens that
one has “no luck when hunting.” It is no easy matter to _refute_ the worth
of the precept in this way, the more so as it is the community, and not
the individual, which is regarded as the bearer of the punishment; and,
again, some occurrence is almost certain to happen which seems to prove
the rule.




25.


CUSTOMS AND BEAUTY.—In justice to custom it must not be overlooked that,
in the case of all those who conform to it whole-heartedly from the very
start, the organs of attack and defence, both physical and intellectual,
begin to waste away; _i.e._ these individuals gradually become more
beautiful! For it is the exercise of these organs and their corresponding
feelings that brings about ugliness and helps to preserve it. It is for
this reason that the old baboon is uglier than the young one, and that the
young female baboon most closely resembles man, and is hence the most
handsome.—Let us draw from this our own conclusions as to the origin of
female beauty!




26.


ANIMALS AND MORALS.—The rules insisted upon in polite society, such, for
example, as the avoidance of everything ridiculous, fantastic,
presumptuous; the suppression of one’s virtues just as much as of one’s
most violent desires, the instant bringing of one’s self down to the
general level, submitting one’s self to etiquette and self-depreciation:
all this, generally speaking, is to be found, as a social morality, even
in the lowest scale of the animal world—and it is only in this low scale
that we see the innermost plan of all these amiable precautionary
regulations: one wishes to escape from one’s pursuers and to be aided in
the search for plunder. Hence animals learn to control and to disguise
themselves to such an extent that some of them can even adapt the colour
of their bodies to that of their surroundings (by means of what is known
as the “chromatic function”). Others can simulate death, or adopt the
forms and colours of other animals, or of sand, leaves, moss, or fungi
(known to English naturalists as “mimicry”).

It is in this way that an individual conceals himself behind the
universality of the generic term “man” or “society,” or adapts and
attaches himself to princes, castes, political parties, current opinions
of the time, or his surroundings: and we may easily find the animal
equivalent of all those subtle means of making ourselves happy, thankful,
powerful, and fascinating. Even that sense of truth, which is at bottom
merely the sense of security, is possessed by man in common with the
animals: we do not wish to be deceived by others or by ourselves; we hear
with some suspicion the promptings of our own passions, we control
ourselves and remain on the watch against ourselves. Now, the animal does
all this as well as man; and in the animal likewise self-control
originates in the sense of reality (prudence). In the same way, the animal
observes the effects it exercises on the imagination of other beasts: it
thus learns to view itself from their position, to consider itself
“objectively”; it has its own degree of self-knowledge. The animal judges
the movements of its friends and foes, it learns their peculiarities by
heart and acts accordingly: it gives up, once and for all, the struggle
against individual animals of certain species, and it likewise recognises,
in the approach of certain varieties, whether their intentions are
agreeable and peaceful. The beginnings of justice, like those of wisdom—in
short, everything which we know as the _Socratic virtues_—are of an
_animal_ nature: a consequence of those instincts which teach us to search
for food and to avoid our enemies. If we remember that the higher man has
merely raised and refined himself in the _quality_ of his food and in the
conception of what is contrary to his nature, it may not be going too far
to describe the entire moral phenomenon as of an animal origin.




27.


THE VALUE OF THE BELIEF IN SUPERHUMAN PASSIONS.—The institution of
marriage stubbornly upholds the belief that love, although a passion, is
nevertheless capable of duration as such, yea, that lasting, lifelong love
may be taken as a general rule. By means of the tenacity of a noble
belief, in spite of such frequent and almost customary refutations—thereby
becoming a _pia fraus_—marriage has elevated love to a higher rank. Every
institution which has conceded to a passion the _belief in the duration of
the latter_, and responsibility for this duration, in spite of the nature
of the passion itself, has raised the passion to a higher level: and he
who is thenceforth seized with such a passion does not, as formerly, think
himself lowered in the estimation of others or brought into danger on that
account, but on the contrary believes himself to be raised, both in the
opinion of himself and of his equals. Let us recall institutions and
customs which, out of the fiery devotion of a moment, have created eternal
fidelity; out of the pleasure of anger, eternal vengeance; out of despair,
eternal mourning; out of a single hasty word, eternal obligation. A great
deal of hypocrisy and falsehood came into the world as the result of such
transformations; but each time, too, at the cost of such disadvantages, a
new and _superhuman_ conception which elevates mankind.




28.


STATE OF MIND AS ARGUMENT.—Whence arises within us a cheerful readiness
for action?—such is the question which has greatly occupied the attention
of men. The most ancient answer, and one which we still hear, is: God is
the cause; in this way He gives us to understand that He approves of our
actions. When, in former ages, people consulted the oracles, they did so
that they might return home strengthened by this cheerful readiness; and
every one answered the doubts which came to him, if alternative actions
suggested themselves, by saying: “I shall do whatever brings about that
feeling.” They did not decide, in other words, for what was most
reasonable, but upon some plan the conception of which imbued the soul
with courage and hope. A cheerful outlook was placed in the scales as an
argument and proved to be heavier than reasonableness; for the state of
mind was interpreted in a superstitious manner as the action of a god who
promises success; and who, by this argument, lets his reason speak as the
highest reasonableness. Now, let the consequences of such a prejudice be
considered when shrewd men, thirsting for power, availed themselves of
it—and still do so! “Bring about the right state of mind!”—in this way you
can do without all arguments and overcome every objection!




29.


ACTORS OF VIRTUE AND SIN.—Among the ancients who became celebrated for
their virtue there were many, it would seem, _who acted to themselves_,
especially the Greeks, who, being actors by nature, must have acted quite
unconsciously, seeing no reason why they should not do so. In addition,
every one was striving to outdo some one else’s virtue with his own, so
why should they not have made use of every artifice to show off their
virtues, especially among themselves, if only for the sake of practice! Of
what use was a virtue which one could not display, and which did not know
how to display itself!—Christianity put an end to the career of these
actors of virtue; instead it devised the disgusting ostentation and
parading of sins: it brought into the world a state of _mendacious
sinfulness_ (even at the present day this is considered as _bon ton_ among
orthodox Christians).




30.


REFINED CRUELTY AS VIRTUE.—Here we have a morality which is based entirely
upon our thirst for distinction—do not therefore entertain too high an
opinion of it! Indeed, we may well ask what kind of an impulse it is, and
what is its fundamental signification? It is sought, by our appearance, to
grieve our neighbour, to arouse his envy, and to awaken his feelings of
impotence and degradation; we endeavour to make him taste the bitterness
of his fate by dropping a little of _our_ honey on his tongue, and, while
conferring this supposed benefit on him, looking sharply and triumphantly
into his eyes.

Behold such a man, now become humble, and perfect in his humility—and seek
those for whom, through his humility, he has for a long time been
preparing a torture; for you are sure to find them! Here is another man
who shows mercy towards animals, and is admired for doing so—but there are
certain people on whom he wishes to vent his cruelty by this very means.
Look at that great artist: the pleasure he enjoyed beforehand in
conceiving the envy of the rivals he had outstripped, refused to let his
powers lie dormant until he became a great man—how many bitter moments in
the souls of other men has he asked for as payment for his own greatness!
The nun’s chastity: with what threatening eyes she looks into the faces of
other women who live differently from her! what a vindictive joy shines in
those eyes! The theme is short, and its variations, though they might well
be innumerable, could not easily become tiresome—for it is still too
paradoxical a novelty, and almost a painful one, to affirm that the
morality of distinction is nothing, at bottom, but joy in refined cruelty.
When I say “at bottom,” I mean here, every time in the first generation.
For, when the habit of some distinguished action becomes _hereditary_, its
root, so to speak, is not transmitted, but only its fruits (for only
feelings, and not thoughts, can become hereditary): and, if we presuppose
that this root is not reintroduced by education, in the second generation
the joy in the cruelty is no longer felt: but only pleasure in the habit
as such. _This_ joy, however, is the first degree of the “good.”




31.


PRIDE IN SPIRIT.—The pride of man, which strives to oppose the theory of
our own descent from animals and establishes a wide gulf between nature
and man himself—this pride is founded upon a prejudice as to what the mind
is; and this prejudice is relatively recent. In the long prehistorical
period of humanity it was supposed that the mind was everywhere, and men
did not look upon it as a particular characteristic of their own. Since,
on the contrary, everything spiritual (including all impulses,
maliciousness, and inclinations) was regarded as common property, and
consequently accessible to everybody, primitive mankind was not ashamed of
being descended from animals or trees (the noble races thought themselves
honoured by such legends), and saw in the spiritual that which unites us
with nature, and not that which severs us from her. Thus man was brought
up in modesty—and this likewise was the result of a prejudice.




32.


THE BRAKE.—To suffer morally, and then to learn afterwards that this kind
of suffering was founded upon an error, shocks us. For there is a unique
consolation in acknowledging, by our suffering, a “deeper world of truth”
than any other world, and we would much rather suffer and feel ourselves
above reality by doing so (through the feeling that, in this way, we
approach nearer to that “deeper world of truth”), than live without
suffering and hence without this feeling of the sublime. Thus it is pride,
and the habitual fashion of satisfying it, which opposes this new
interpretation of morality. What power, then, must we bring into operation
to get rid of this brake? Greater pride? A new pride?




33.


THE CONTEMPT OF CAUSES, CONSEQUENCES, AND REALITY.—Those unfortunate
occurrences which take place at times in the community, such as sudden
storms, bad harvests, or plagues, lead members of the community to suspect
that offences against custom have been committed, or that new customs must
be invented to appease a new demoniac power and caprice. Suspicion and
reasoning of this kind, however, evade an inquiry into the real and
natural causes, and take the demoniac cause for granted. This is one
source of the hereditary perversion of the human intellect; and the other
one follows in its train, for, proceeding on the same principle, people
paid much less attention to the real and natural consequences of an action
than to the supernatural consequences (the so-called punishments and
mercies of the Divinity). It is commanded, for instance, that certain
baths are to be taken at certain times: and the baths are taken, not for
the sake of cleanliness, but because the command has been made. We are not
taught to avoid the real consequences of dirt, but merely the supposed
displeasure of the gods because a bath has been omitted. Under the
pressure of superstitious fear, people began to suspect that these
ablutions were of much greater importance than they seemed; they ascribed
inner and supplementary meanings to them, gradually lost their sense of
and pleasure in reality, and finally reality is considered as valuable
_only to the extent that it is a symbol._ Hence a man who is under the
influence of the morality of custom comes to despise causes first of all,
secondly consequences, and thirdly reality, and weaves all his higher
feelings (reverence, sublimity, pride, gratitude, love) _into an imaginary
world_: the so-called higher world. And even to-day we can see the
consequences of this: wherever, and in whatever fashion, man’s feelings
are raised, that imaginary world is in evidence. It is sad to have to say
it; but for the time being _all higher sentiments_ must be looked upon
with suspicion by the man of science, to so great an extent are they
intermingled with illusion and extravagance. Not that they need
necessarily be suspected _per se_ and for ever; but there is no doubt
that, of all the gradual _purifications_ which await humanity, the
purification of the higher feelings will be one of the slowest.




34.


MORAL FEELINGS AND CONCEPTIONS.—It is clear that moral feelings are
transmitted in such a way that children perceive in adults violent
predilections and aversions for certain actions, and then, like born apes,
imitate such likes and dislikes. Later on in life, when they are
thoroughly permeated by these acquired and well-practised feelings, they
think it a matter of propriety and decorum to provide a kind of
justification for these predilections and aversions. These
“justifications,” however, are in no way connected with the origin or the
degree of the feeling: people simply accommodate themselves to the rule
that, as rational beings, they must give reasons for their pros and cons,
reasons which must be assignable and acceptable into the bargain. Up to
this extent the history of the moral feelings is entirely different from
the history of moral conceptions. The first-mentioned are powerful
_before_ the action, and the latter especially after it, in view of the
necessity for making one’s self clear in regard to them.




35.


FEELINGS AND THEIR DESCENT FROM JUDGMENTS.—“Trust in your feelings!” But
feelings comprise nothing final, original; feelings are based upon the
judgments and valuations which are transmitted to us in the shape of
feelings (inclinations, dislikes). The inspiration which springs from a
feeling is the grandchild of a judgment—often an erroneous judgment!—and
certainly not one’s own judgment! Trusting in our feelings simply means
obeying our grandfather and grandmother more than the gods within
_ourselves_: our reason and experience.




36.


A FOOLISH PIETY, WITH _ARRIÈRE-PENSÉES_.—What! the inventors of ancient
civilisations, the first makers of tools and tape lines, the first
builders of vehicles, ships, and houses, the first observers of the laws
of the heavens and the multiplication tables—is it contended that they
were entirely different from the inventors and observers of our own time,
and superior to them? And that the first slow steps forward were of a
value which has not been equalled by the discoveries we have made with all
our travels and circumnavigations of the earth? It is the voice of
prejudice that speaks thus, and argues in this way to depreciate the
importance of the modern mind. And yet it is plain to be seen that, in
former times, hazard was the greatest of all discoverers and observers and
the benevolent prompter of these ingenious ancients, and that, in the case
of the most insignificant invention now made, a greater intellect,
discipline, and scientific imagination are required than formerly existed
throughout long ages.




37.


WRONG CONCLUSIONS FROM USEFULNESS.—When we have demonstrated the highest
utility of a thing, we have nevertheless made no progress towards an
explanation of its origin; in other words, we can never explain, by mere
utility, the necessity of existence. But precisely the contrary opinion
has been maintained up to the present time, even in the domain of the most
exact science. In astronomy, for example, have we not heard it stated that
the (supposed) usefulness of the system of satellites—(replacing the light
which is diminished in intensity by the greater distance of the sun, in
order that the inhabitants of the various celestial bodies should not want
for light)—was the final object of this system and explained its origin?
Which may remind us of the conclusions of Christopher Columbus The earth
has been created for man, ergo, if there are countries, they must be
inhabited. “Is it probable that the sun would throw his rays on nothing,
and that the nocturnal vigils of the stars should be wasted upon
untravelled seas and unpeopled countries?”




38.


IMPULSES TRANSFORMED BY MORAL JUDGMENTS.—The same impulse, under the
impression of the blame cast upon it by custom, develops into the painful
feeling of cowardice, or else the pleasurable feeling of _humility_, in
case a morality, like that of Christianity, has taken it to its heart and
called it _good_. In other words, this instinct will fall under the
influence of either a good conscience or a bad one! In itself, _like every
instinct_, it does not possess either this or indeed any other moral
character and name, or even a definite accompanying feeling of pleasure or
displeasure; it does not acquire all these qualities as its second nature
until it comes into contact with impulses which have already been baptized
as good and evil, or has been recognised as the attribute of beings
already weighed and valued by the people from a moral point of view. Thus
the ancient conception of envy differed entirely from ours. Hesiod reckons
it among the qualities of the _good_, benevolent Eris, and it was not
considered as offensive to attribute some kind of envy even to the gods.
This is easy to understand in a state of things inspired mainly by
emulation, but emulation was looked upon as good, and valued accordingly.

The Greeks were likewise different from us in the value they set upon
hope: they conceived it as blind and deceitful. Hesiod in one of his poems
has made a strong reference to it—a reference so strong, indeed, that no
modern commentator has quite understood it; for it runs contrary to the
modern mind, which has learnt from Christianity to look upon hope as a
virtue. Among the Greeks, on the other hand, the portal leading to a
knowledge of the future seemed only partly closed, and, in innumerable
instances, it was impressed upon them as a religious obligation to inquire
into the future, in those cases where we remain satisfied with hope. It
thus came about that the Greeks, thanks to their oracles and seers, held
hope in small esteem, and even lowered it to the level of an evil and a
danger.

The Jews, again, took a different view of anger from that held by us, and
sanctified it: hence they have placed the sombre majesty of the wrathful
man at an elevation so high that a European cannot conceive it. They
moulded their wrathful and holy Jehovah after the images of their wrathful
and holy prophets. Compared with them, all the Europeans who have
exhibited the greatest wrath are, so to speak, only second-hand creatures.




39.


THE PREJUDICE CONCERNING “PURE SPIRIT.”—Wherever the doctrine of _pure
spirituality_ has prevailed, its excesses have resulted in the destruction
of the tone of the nerves: it taught that the body should be despised,
neglected, or tormented, and that, on account of his impulses, man himself
should be tortured and regarded with contempt. It gave rise to gloomy,
strained, and downcast souls—who, besides, thought they knew the reason of
their misery and how it might possibly be relieved! “It _must_ be in the
body! For it still _thrives_ too well!”—such was their conclusion, whilst
the fact was that the body, through its agonies, protested time after time
against this never-ending mockery. Finally, a universal and chronic
hyper-nervousness seized upon those virtuous representatives of the pure
spirit: they learned to recognise joy only in the shape of ecstasies and
other preliminary symptoms of insanity—and their system reached its climax
when it came to look upon ecstasy as the highest aim of life, and as the
standard by which all earthly things must be _condemned_.




40.


MEDITATIONS UPON OBSERVANCES.—Numerous moral precepts, carelessly drawn
from a single event, quickly became incomprehensible; it was as difficult
a matter to deduce their intentions with any degree of certainty as it was
to recognise the punishment which was to follow the breaking of the rule.
Doubts were even held regarding the order of the ceremonies; but, while
people guessed at random about such matters, the object of their
investigations increased in importance, it was precisely the greatest
absurdity of an observance that developed into a holy of holies. Let us
not think too little of the energy wasted by man in this regard throughout
thousands of years, and least of all of the effects of such _meditations
upon observances_! Here we find ourselves on the wide training-ground of
the intellect—not only do religions develop and continue to increase
within its boundaries: but here also is the venerable, though dreadful,
primeval world of science; here grow up the poet, the thinker, the
physician, the lawgiver. The dread of the unintelligible, which, in an
ambiguous fashion, demanded ceremonies from us, gradually assumed the
charm of the intricate, and where man could not unravel he learnt to
create.




41.


TO DETERMINE THE VALUE OF THE _VITA CONTEMPLATIVA_.—Let us not forget, as
men leading a contemplative life, what kind of evil and misfortunes have
overtaken the men of the _vita activa_ as the result of contemplation—in
short, what sort of contra-account the _vita activa_ has to offer _us_, if
we exhibit too much boastfulness before it with respect to our good deeds.
It would show us, in the first place, those so-called religious natures,
who predominate among the lovers of contemplation and consequently
represent their commonest type. They have at all times acted in such a
manner as to render life difficult to practical men, and tried to make
them disgusted with it, if possible: to darken the sky, to obliterate the
sun, to cast suspicion upon joy, to depreciate hope, to paralyse the
active hand—all this they knew how to do, just as, for miserable times and
feelings, they had their consolations, alms, blessings, and benedictions.
In the second place, it can show us the artists, a species of men leading
the _vita contemplativa_, rarer than the religious element, but still
often to be met with. As beings, these people are usually intolerable,
capricious, jealous, violent, quarrelsome: this, however, must be deduced
from the joyous and exalting effects of their works.

Thirdly, we have the philosophers, men who unite religious and artistic
qualities, combined, however, with a third element, namely, dialectics and
the love of controversy. They are the authors of evil in the same sense as
the religious men and artists, in addition to which they have wearied many
of their fellow-men with their passion for dialectics, though their number
has always been very small. Fourthly, the thinkers and scientific workers.
They but rarely strove after effects, and contented themselves with
silently sticking to their own groove. Thus they brought about little envy
and discomfort, and often, as objects of mockery and derision, they
served, without wishing to do so, to make life easier for the men of the
_vita activa_. Lastly, science ended by becoming of much advantage to all;
and if, _on account of this utility_, many of the men who were destined
for the _vita activa_ are now slowly making their way along the road to
science in the sweat of their brow, and not without brain-racking and
maledictions, this is not the fault of the crowd of thinkers and
scientific workers: it is “self-wrought pain.”(3)




42.


ORIGIN OF THE _VITA CONTEMPLATIVA_.—During barbarous ages, when
pessimistic judgments held sway over men and the world, the individual, in
the consciousness of his full power, always endeavoured to act in
conformity with such judgments, that is to say, he put his ideas into
action by means of hunting, robbery, surprise attacks, brutality, and
murder: including the weaker forms of such acts, as far as they are
tolerated within the community. When his strength declines, however, and
he feels tired, ill, melancholy, or satiated—consequently becoming
temporarily void of wishes or desires—he is a relatively better man, that
is to say, less dangerous; and his pessimistic ideas will now discharge
themselves only in words and reflections—upon his companions, for example,
or his wife, his life, his gods,—his judgments will be _evil_ ones. In
this frame of mind he develops into a thinker and prophet, or he adds to
his superstitions and invents new observances, or mocks his enemies.
Whatever he may devise, however, all the productions of his brain will
necessarily reflect his frame of mind, such as the increase of fear and
weariness, and the lower value he attributes to action and enjoyment. The
substance of these productions must correspond to the substance of these
poetic, thoughtful, and priestly moods; the evil judgment must be supreme.

In later years, all those who acted continuously as this man did in those
special circumstances—_i.e._ those who gave out pessimistic judgments, and
lived a melancholy life, poor in action—were called poets, thinkers,
priests, or “medicine-men.” The general body of men would have liked to
disregard such people, because they were not active enough, and to turn
them out of the community; but there was a certain risk in doing so: these
inactive men had found out and were following the tracks of superstition
and divine power, and no one doubted that they had unknown means of power
at their disposal. This was the value which was set upon _the ancient race
of contemplative natures_—despised as they were in just the same degree as
they were not dreaded! In such a masked form, in such an ambiguous aspect,
with an evil heart and often with a troubled head, did Contemplation make
its first appearance on earth: both weak and terrible at the same time,
despised in secret, and covered in public with every mark of superstitious
veneration. Here, as always, we must say: _pudenda origo_!




43.


HOW MANY FORCES MUST NOW BE UNITED IN A THINKER.—To rise superior to
considerations of the senses, to raise one’s self to abstract
contemplations: this is what was formerly regarded as _elevation_; but now
it is not practicable for us to share the same feelings. Luxuriating in
the most shadowy images of words and things; playing with those invisible,
inaudible, imperceptible beings, was considered as existence in another
and _higher_ world, a world that sprang from the deep contempt felt for
the world which was perceptible to the senses, this seductive and wicked
world of ours. “These _abstracta_ no longer mislead us, but they may lead
us”—with such words men soared aloft. It was not the _substance_ of these
intellectual sports, but the sports themselves, which was looked upon as
“the higher thing” in the primeval ages of science. Hence we have Plato’s
admiration for dialectics, and his enthusiastic belief in the necessary
relationship of dialectics to the good man who has risen superior to the
considerations of his senses. It was not only knowledge that was
discovered little by little, but also the different means of acquiring it,
the conditions and operations which precede knowledge in man. And it
always seemed as if the newly-discovered operation or the
newly-experienced condition were not a means of acquiring knowledge, but
was even the substance, goal, and sum-total of everything that was worth
knowing. What does the thinker require?—imagination, inspiration,
abstraction, spirituality, invention, presentiment, induction, dialectics,
deduction, criticism, ability to collect materials, an impersonal mode of
thinking, contemplation, comprehensiveness, and lastly, but not least,
justice, and love for everything that exists—but each one of these means
was at one time considered, in the history of the _vita contemplativa_, as
a goal and final purpose, and they all secured for their inventors that
perfect happiness which fills the human soul when its final purpose dawns
upon it.




44.


ORIGIN AND MEANING.—Why does this thought come into my mind again and
again, always in more and more vivid colours?—that, in former times,
investigators, in the course of their search for the origin of things,
always thought that they found something which would be of the highest
importance for all kinds of action and judgment: yea, that they even
invariably postulated that the salvation of mankind depended upon _insight
into the origin of things_—whereas now, on the other hand, the more we
examine into origins, the less do they concern our interests: on the
contrary, all the valuations and interestedness which we have placed upon
things begin to lose their meaning, the more we retrogress where knowledge
is concerned and approach the things themselves. _The origin becomes of
less significance in proportion as we acquire insight into it_; whilst
things nearest to ourselves, around and within us, gradually begin to
manifest their wealth of colours, beauties, enigmas, and diversity of
meaning, of which earlier humanity never dreamed. In former ages thinkers
used to move furiously about, like wild animals in cages, steadily glaring
at the bars which hemmed them in, and at times springing up against them
in a vain endeavour to break through them: and happy indeed was he who
could look through a gap to the outer world and could fancy that he saw
something of what lay beyond and afar off.




45.


A TRAGIC TERMINATION TO KNOWLEDGE.—Of all the means of exaltation, human
sacrifices have at times done most to elevate man. And perhaps the one
powerful thought—the idea of _self-sacrificing humanity_—might be made to
prevail over every other aspiration, and thus to prove the victor over
even the most victorious. But to whom should the sacrifice be made? We may
already swear that, if ever the constellation of such an idea appeared on
the horizon, the knowledge of truth would remain the single but enormous
object with which a sacrifice of such a nature would be
commensurate—because no sacrifice is too great for it. In the meantime the
problem has never been expounded as to how far humanity, considered as a
whole, could take steps to encourage the advancement of knowledge; and
even less as to what thirst for knowledge could impel humanity to the
point of sacrificing itself with the light of an anticipated wisdom in its
eyes. When, perhaps, with a view to the advancement of knowledge, we are
able to enter into communication with the inhabitants of other stars, and
when, during thousands of years, wisdom will have been carried from star
to star, the enthusiasm of knowledge may rise to such a dizzy height!




46.


DOUBT IN DOUBT.—“What a good pillow doubt is for a well-balanced head!”
This saying of Montaigne always made Pascal angry, for nobody ever wanted
a good pillow so much as he did. Whatever was the matter with him?




47.


WORDS BLOCK UP OUR PATH.—Wherever primitive men put down a word, they
thought they had made a discovery. How different the case really was!—they
had come upon a problem, and, while they thought they had solved it, they
had in reality placed an obstacle in the way of its solution. Now, with
every new piece of knowledge, we stumble over petrified words and
mummified conceptions, and would rather break a leg than a word in doing
so.




48.


“KNOW THYSELF” IS THE WHOLE OF SCIENCE.—Only when man shall have acquired
a knowledge of all things will he be able to know himself. For things are
but the boundaries of man.




49.


THE NEW FUNDAMENTAL FEELING: OUR FINAL CORRUPTIBILITY.—In former times
people sought to show the feeling of man’s greatness by pointing to his
divine descent. This, however, has now become a forbidden path, for the
ape stands at its entrance, and likewise other fearsome animals, showing
their teeth in a knowing fashion, as if to say, No further this way! Hence
people now try the opposite direction: the road along which humanity is
proceeding shall stand as an indication of their greatness and their
relationship to God. But alas! this, too, is useless! At the far end of
this path stands the funeral urn of the last man and grave-digger (with
the inscription, _Nihil humani a me alienum puto_). To whatever height
mankind may have developed—and perhaps in the end it will not be so high
as when they began!—there is as little prospect of their attaining to a
higher order as there is for the ant and the earwig to enter into kinship
with God and eternity at the end of their career on earth. What is to come
will drag behind it that which has passed: why should any little star, or
even any little species on that star, form an exception to that eternal
drama? Away with such sentimentalities!




50.


BELIEF IN INEBRIATION.—Those men who have moments of sublime ecstasy, and
who, on ordinary occasions, on account of the contrast and the excessive
wearing away of their nervous forces, usually feel miserable and desolate,
come to consider such moments as the true manifestation of their real
selves, of their “ego,” and their misery and dejection, on the other hand,
as the _effect of the _“non-ego”. This is why they think of their
environment, the age in which they live, and the whole world in which they
have their being, with feelings of vindictiveness. This intoxication
appears to them as their true life, their actual ego; and everywhere else
they see only those who strive to oppose and prevent this intoxication,
whether of an intellectual, moral, religious, or artistic nature.

Humanity owes no small part of its evils to these fantastic enthusiasts;
for they are the insatiable sowers of the weed of discontent with one’s
self and one’s neighbour, of contempt for the world and the age, and,
above all, of world-lassitude. An entire hell of criminals could not,
perhaps, bring about such unfortunate and far-reaching consequences, such
heavy and disquieting effects that corrupt earth and sky, as are brought
about by that “noble” little community of unbridled, fantastic, half-mad
people—of geniuses, too—who cannot control themselves, or experience any
inward joy, until they have lost themselves completely: while, on the
other hand, the criminal often gives a proof of his admirable
self-control, sacrifice, and wisdom, and thus maintains these qualities in
those who fear him. Through him life’s sky may at times seem overcast and
threatening, but the atmosphere ever remains brisk and
vigorous.—Furthermore, these enthusiasts bring their entire strength to
bear on the task of imbuing mankind with belief in inebriation as in life
itself: a dreadful belief! As savages are now quickly corrupted and ruined
by “fire-water,” so likewise has mankind in general been slowly though
thoroughly corrupted by these spiritual “fire-waters” of intoxicating
feelings and by those who keep alive the craving for them. It may yet be
ruined thereby.




51.


SUCH AS WE STILL ARE.—“Let us be indulgent to the great one-eyed!” said
Stuart Mill, as if it were necessary to ask for indulgence when we are
willing to believe and almost to worship them. I say: Let us be indulgent
towards the two-eyed, both great and small; for, _such as we are now_, we
shall never rise beyond indulgence!




52.


WHERE ARE THE NEW PHYSICIANS OF THE SOUL?—It is the means of consolation
which have stamped life with that fundamental melancholy character in
which we now believe: the worst disease of mankind has arisen from the
struggle against diseases, and apparent remedies have in the long run
brought about worse conditions than those which it was intended to remove
by their use. Men, in their ignorance, used to believe that the stupefying
and intoxicating means, which appeared to act immediately, the so-called
“consolations,” were the true healing powers: they even failed to observe
that they had often to pay for their immediate relief by a general and
profound deterioration in health, that the sick ones had to suffer from
the after-effects of the intoxication, then from the absence of the
intoxication, and, later on, from a feeling of disquietude, depression,
nervous starts, and ill-health. Again, men whose illness had advanced to a
certain extent never recovered from it—those physicians of the soul,
universally believed in and worshipped as they were, took care of that.

It has been justly said of Schopenhauer that he was one who again took the
sufferings of humanity seriously: where is the man who will at length take
the antidotes against these sufferings seriously, and who will pillory the
unheard-of quackery with which men, even up to our own age, and in the
most sublime nomenclature, have been wont to treat the illnesses of their
souls?




53.


ABUSE OF THE CONSCIENTIOUS ONES.—It is the conscientious, and not the
unscrupulous, who have suffered so greatly from exhortations to penitence
and the fear of hell, especially if they happened to be men of
imagination. In other words, a gloom has been cast over the lives of those
who had the greatest need of cheerfulness and agreeable images—not only
for the sake of their own consolation and recovery from themselves, but
that humanity itself might take delight in them and absorb a ray of their
beauty. Alas, how much superfluous cruelty and torment have been brought
about by those religions which invented sin! and by those men who, by
means of such religions, desired to reach the highest enjoyment of their
power!




54.


THOUGHTS ON DISEASE.—To soothe the imagination of the patient, in order
that he may at least no longer keep on thinking about his illness, and
thus suffer more from such thoughts than from the complaint itself, which
has been the case hitherto—that, it seems to me, is something! and it is
by no means a trifle! And now do ye understand our task?




55.


THE “WAYS.”—So-called “short cuts” have always led humanity to run great
risks: on hearing the “glad tidings” that a “short cut” had been found,
they always left the straight path—_and lost their way_.




56.


THE APOSTATE OF THE FREE SPIRIT.—Is there any one, then, who seriously
dislikes pious people who hold formally to their belief? Do we not, on the
contrary, regard them with silent esteem and pleasure, deeply regretting
at the same time that these excellent people do not share our own
feelings? But whence arises that sudden, profound, and unreasonable
dislike for the man who, having at one time possessed freedom of spirit,
finally becomes a “believer”? In thinking of him we involuntarily
experience the sensation of having beheld some loathsome spectacle, which
we must quickly efface from our recollection. Should we not turn our backs
upon even the most venerated man if we entertained the least suspicion of
him in this regard? Not, indeed, from a moral point of view, but because
of sudden disgust and horror! Whence comes this sharpness of feeling?
Perhaps we shall be given to understand that, at bottom, we are not quite
certain of our own selves? Or that, early in life, we build round
ourselves hedges of the most pointed contempt, in order that, when old age
makes us weak and forgetful, we may not feel inclined to brush our own
contempt away from us?

Now, speaking frankly, this suspicion is quite erroneous, and whoever
forms it knows nothing of what agitates and determines the free spirit:
how little, to him, does the _changing_ of an opinion seem contemptible
_per se_! On the contrary, how highly he prizes the _ability_ to change an
opinion as a rare and valuable distinction, especially if he can retain it
far into old age! And his pride (not his pusillanimity) even reaches so
high as to be able to pluck the fruits of the _spernere se sperni_ and the
_spernere se ipsum_: without his being troubled by the sensation of fear
of vain and easy-going men. Furthermore, the doctrine of the innocence of
all opinions appears to him to be as certain as the doctrine of the
innocence of all actions: how could he act as judge and hangman before the
apostate of intellectual liberty! On the contrary, the sight of such a
person would disgust him as much as the sight of a nauseous illness
disgusts the physician: the physical repulsion caused by everything
spongy, soft, and suppurating momentarily overcomes reason and the desire
to help. Hence our goodwill is overcome by the conception of the monstrous
dishonesty which must have gained the upper hand in the apostate from the
free spirit: by the conception of a general gnawing which is eating its
way down even to the framework of the character.




57.


OTHER FEARS, OTHER SAFETIES.—Christianity overspread life with a new and
unlimited _insecurity_, thereby creating new safeties, enjoyments and
recreations, and new valuations of all things. Our own century denies the
existence of this insecurity, and does so with a good conscience, yet it
clings to the old habit of Christian certainties, enjoyments, recreations,
and valuations!—even in its noblest arts and philosophies. How feeble and
worn out must all this now seem, how imperfect and clumsy, how arbitrarily
fanatical, and, above all, how uncertain: now that its horrible contrast
has been taken away—the ever-present fear of the Christian for his
_eternal_ salvation!




58.


CHRISTIANITY AND THE EMOTIONS.—In Christianity we may see a great popular
protest against philosophy: the reasoning of the sages of antiquity had
withdrawn men from the influence of the emotions, but Christianity would
fain give men their emotions back again. With this aim in view, it denies
any moral value to virtue such as philosophers understood it—as a victory
of the reason over the passions—generally condemns every kind of goodness,
and calls upon the passions to manifest themselves in their full power and
glory: as _love_ of God, _fear_ of God, fanatic _belief_ in God, blind
_hope_ in God.




59.


ERROR AS A CORDIAL.—Let people say what they will, it is nevertheless
certain that it was the aim of Christianity to deliver mankind from the
yoke of moral engagements by indicating what it believed to be the
_shortest way to perfection_: exactly in the same manner as a few
philosophers thought they could dispense with tedious and laborious
dialectics, and the collection of strictly-proved facts, and point out a
royal road to truth. It was an error in both cases, but nevertheless a
great cordial for those who were worn out and despairing in the
wilderness.




60.


ALL SPIRIT FINALLY BECOMES VISIBLE.—Christianity has assimilated the
entire spirituality of an incalculable number of men who were by nature
submissive, all those enthusiasts of humiliation and reverence, both
refined and coarse. It has in this way freed itself from its own original
rustic coarseness—of which we are vividly reminded when we look at the
oldest image of St. Peter the Apostle—and has become a very intellectual
religion, with thousands of wrinkles, _arrière-pensées_, and masks on its
face. It has made European humanity more clever, and not only cunning from
a theological standpoint. By the spirit which it has thus given to
European humanity—in conjunction with the power of abnegation, and very
often in conjunction with the profound conviction and loyalty of that
abnegation—it has perhaps chiselled and shaped the most subtle
individualities which have ever existed in human society: the
individualities of the higher ranks of the Catholic clergy, especially
when these priests have sprung from a noble family, and have brought to
their work, from the very beginning, the innate grace of gesture, the
dominating glance of the eye, and beautiful hands and feet. Here the human
face acquires that spiritualisation brought about by the continual ebb and
flow of two kinds of happiness (the feeling of power and the feeling of
submission) after a carefully-planned manner of living has conquered the
beast in man. Here an activity, which consists in blessing, forgiving
sins, and representing the Almighty, ever keeps alive in the soul, _and
even in the body_, the consciousness of a supreme mission; here we find
that noble contempt concerning the perishable nature of the body, of
well-being, and of happiness, peculiar to born soldiers: their _pride_
lies in obedience, a distinctly aristocratic trait; their excuse and their
idealism arise from the enormous impossibility of their task. The
surpassing beauty and subtleties of these princes of the Church have
always proved to the people the truth of the Church; a momentary
brutalisation of the clergy (such as came about in Luther’s time) always
tended to encourage the contrary belief. And would it be maintained that
this result of beauty and human subtlety, shown in harmony of figure,
intellect, and task, would come to an end with religions? and that nothing
higher could be obtained, or even conceived?




61.


THE NEEDFUL SACRIFICE.—Those earnest, able, and just men of profound
feelings, who are still Christians at heart, owe it to themselves to make
one attempt to live for a certain space of time without Christianity! they
owe it _to their faith_ that they should thus for once take up their abode
“in the wilderness”—if for no other reason than that of being able to
pronounce on the question as to whether Christianity is needful. So far,
however, they have confined themselves to their own narrow domain and
insulted every one who happened to be outside of it: yea, they even become
highly irritated when it is suggested to them that beyond this little
domain of theirs lies the great world, and that Christianity is, after
all, only a corner of it! No; your evidence on the question will be
valueless until you have lived year after year without Christianity, and
with the inmost desire to continue to exist without it: until, indeed, you
have withdrawn far, far away from it. It is not when your nostalgia urges
you back again, but when your judgment, based on a strict comparison,
drives you back, that your homecoming has any significance!—Men of coming
generations will deal in this manner with all the valuations of the past;
they must be voluntarily _lived_ over again, together with their
contraries, in order that such men may finally acquire the right of
shifting them.




62.


ON THE ORIGIN OF RELIGIONS.—How can any one regard his own opinion of
things as a revelation? This is the problem of the formation of religions:
there has always been some man in whom this phenomenon was possible. A
postulate is that such a man already believed in revelations. Suddenly,
however, a new idea occurs to him one day, _his_ idea; and the entire
blessedness of a great personal hypothesis, which embraces all existence
and the whole world, penetrates with such force into his conscience that
he dare not think himself the creator of such blessedness, and he
therefore attributes to his God the cause of this new idea and likewise
the cause of the cause, believing it to be the revelation of his God. How
could a man be the author of so great a happiness? ask his pessimistic
doubts. But other levers are secretly at work: an opinion may be
strengthened by one’s self if it be considered as a revelation; and in
this way all its hypothetic nature is removed; the matter is set beyond
criticism and even beyond doubt: it is sanctified. It is true that, in
this way, a man lowers himself to playing the rôle of “mouthpiece,” but
his thought will end by being victorious as a divine thought—the feeling
of finally gaining the victory conquers the feeling of degradation. There
is also another feeling in the background: if a man raises his products
above himself, and thus apparently detracts from his own worth, there
nevertheless remains a kind of joyfulness, paternal love, and paternal
pride, which compensates man—more than compensates man—for everything.




63.


HATRED OF ONE’S NEIGHBOUR.—Supposing that we felt towards our neighbour as
he does himself—Schopenhauer calls this compassion, though it would be
more correct to call it auto-passion, fellow-feeling—we should be
compelled to hate him, if, like Pascal, he thought himself hateful. And
this was probably the general feeling of Pascal regarding mankind, and
also that of ancient Christianity, which, under Nero, was “convicted” of
_odium generis humani_, as Tacitus has recorded.




64.


THE BROKEN-HEARTED ONES.—Christianity has the instinct of a hunter for
finding out all those who may by hook or by crook be driven to
despair—only a very small number of men can be brought to this despair.
Christianity lies in wait for such as those, and pursues them. Pascal made
an attempt to find out whether it was not possible, with the help of the
very subtlest knowledge, to drive everybody into despair. He failed: to
his second despair.




65.


BRAHMINISM AND CHRISTIANITY.—There are certain precepts for obtaining a
consciousness of power: on the one hand, for those who already know how to
control themselves, and who are therefore already quite used to the
feeling of power; and, on the other hand, for those who cannot control
themselves. Brahminism has given its care to the former type of man;
Christianity to the latter.




66.


THE FACULTY OF VISION.—During the whole of the Middle Ages it was believed
that the real distinguishing trait of higher men was the faculty of having
visions—that is to say, of having a grave mental trouble. And, in fact,
the rules of life of all the higher natures of the Middle Ages (the
religiosi) were drawn up with the object of making man capable of vision!
Little wonder, then, that the exaggerated esteem for these half-mad
fanatics, so-called men of genius, has continued even to our own days.
“They have seen things that others do not see”—no doubt! and this fact
should inspire us with caution where they are concerned, and not with
belief!




67.


THE PRICE OF BELIEVERS.—He who sets such a value on being believed in has
to promise heaven in recompense for this belief: and every one, even a
thief on the Cross, must have suffered from a terrible doubt and
experienced crucifixion in every form: otherwise he would not buy his
followers so dearly.




68.


THE FIRST CHRISTIAN.—The whole world still believes in the literary career
of the “Holy Ghost,” or is still influenced by the effects of this belief:
when we look into our Bibles we do so for the purpose of “edifying
ourselves,” to find a few words of comfort for our misery, be it great or
small—in short, we read ourselves into it and out of it. But who—apart
from a few learned men—know that it likewise records the history of one of
the most ambitious and importunate souls that ever existed, of a mind full
of superstition and cunning: the history of the Apostle Paul?
Nevertheless, without this singular history, without the tribulations and
passions of such a mind, and of such a soul, there would have been no
Christian kingdom; we should have scarcely have even heard of a little
Jewish sect, the founder of which died on the Cross. It is true that, if
this history had been understood in time, if we had read, _really read_,
the writings of St. Paul, not as the revelations of the “Holy Ghost,” but
with honest and independent minds, oblivious of all our personal
troubles—there were no such readers for fifteen centuries—it would have
been all up with Christianity long ago: so searchingly do these writings
of the Jewish Pascal lay bare the origins of Christianity, just as the
French Pascal let us see its destiny and how it will ultimately perish.
That the ship of Christianity threw overboard no inconsiderable part of
its Jewish ballast, that it was able to sail into the waters of the
heathen and actually did do so: this is due to the history of one single
man, this apostle who was so greatly troubled in mind and so worthy of
pity, but who was also very disagreeable to himself and to others.

This man suffered from a fixed idea, or rather a fixed question, an
ever-present and ever-burning question: what was the _meaning_ of the
Jewish Law? and, more especially, _the fulfilment of this Law_? In his
youth he had done his best to satisfy it, thirsting as he did for that
highest distinction which the Jews could imagine—this people, which raised
the imagination of moral loftiness to a greater elevation than any other
people, and which alone succeeded in uniting the conception of a holy God
with the idea of sin considered as an offence against this holiness. St.
Paul became at once the fanatic defender and guard-of-honour of this God
and His Law. Ceaselessly battling against and lying in wait for all
transgressors of this Law and those who presumed to doubt it, he was
pitiless and cruel towards all evil-doers, whom he would fain have
punished in the most rigorous fashion possible.

Now, however, he was aware in his own person of the fact that such a man
as himself—violent, sensual, melancholy, and malicious in his
hatred—_could_ not fulfil the Law; and furthermore, what seemed strangest
of all to him, he saw that his boundless craving for power was continually
provoked to break it, and that he could not help yielding to this impulse.
Was it really “the flesh” which made him a trespasser time and again? Was
it not rather, as it afterwards occurred to him, the Law itself, which
continually showed itself to be impossible to fulfil, and seduced men into
transgression with an irresistible charm? But at that time he had not
thought of this means of escape. As he suggests here and there, he had
many things on his conscience—hatred, murder, sorcery, idolatry,
debauchery, drunkenness, and orgiastic revelry,—and to however great an
extent he tried to soothe his conscience, and, even more, his desire for
power, by the extreme fanaticism of his worship for and defence of the
Law, there were times when the thought struck him: “It is all in vain! The
anguish of the unfulfilled Law cannot be overcome.” Luther must have
experienced similar feelings, when, in his cloister, he endeavoured to
become the ideal man of his imagination; and, as Luther one day began to
hate the ecclesiastical ideal, and the Pope, and the saints, and the whole
clergy, with a hatred which was all the more deadly as he could not avow
it even to himself, an analogous feeling took possession of St. Paul. The
Law was the Cross on which he felt himself crucified. How he hated it!
What a grudge he owed it! How he began to look round on all sides to find
a means for its total annihilation, that he might no longer be obliged to
fulfil it himself! And at last a liberating thought, together with a
vision—which was only to be expected in the case of an epileptic like
himself—flashed into his mind: to him, the stern upholder of the Law—who,
in his innermost heart, was tired to death of it—there appeared on the
lonely path that Christ, with the divine effulgence on His countenance,
and Paul heard the words: “Why persecutest thou Me?”

What actually took place, then, was this: his mind was suddenly
enlightened, and he said to himself: “It is unreasonable to persecute this
Jesus Christ! Here is my means of escape, here is my complete vengeance,
here and nowhere else have I the destroyer of the Law in my hands!” The
sufferer from anguished pride felt himself restored to health all at once,
his moral despair disappeared in the air; for morality itself was blown
away, annihilated—that is to say, _fulfilled_, there on the Cross! Up to
that time that ignominious death had seemed to him to be the principal
argument against the “Messiahship” proclaimed by the followers of the new
doctrine: but what if it were necessary for doing away with the Law? The
enormous consequences of this thought, of this solution of the enigma,
danced before his eyes, and he at once became the happiest of men. The
destiny of the Jews, yea, of all mankind, seemed to him to be intertwined
with this instantaneous flash of enlightenment: he held the thought of
thoughts, the key of keys, the light of lights; history would henceforth
revolve round him! For from that time forward he would be the apostle of
the _annihilation of the Law_! To be dead to sin—that meant to be dead to
the Law also; to be in the flesh—that meant to be under the Law! To be one
with Christ—that meant to have become, like Him, the destroyer of the Law;
to be dead with Him—that meant likewise to be dead to the Law. Even if it
were still possible to sin, it would not at any rate be possible to sin
against the Law: “I am above the Law,” thinks Paul; adding, “If I were now
to acknowledge the Law again and to submit to it, I should make Christ an
accomplice in the sin”; for the Law was there for the purpose of producing
sin and setting it in the foreground, as an emetic produces sickness. God
could not have decided upon the death of Christ had it been possible to
fulfil the Law without it; henceforth, not only are all sins expiated, but
sin itself is abolished; henceforth the Law is dead; henceforth “the
flesh” in which it dwelt is dead—or at all events dying, gradually wasting
away. To live for a short time longer amid this decay!—this is the
Christian’s fate, until the time when, having become one with Christ, he
arises with Him, sharing with Christ the divine glory, and becoming, like
Christ, a “Son of God.” Then Paul’s exaltation was at its height, and with
it the importunity of his soul—the thought of union with Christ made him
lose all shame, all submission, all constraint, and his ungovernable
ambition was shown to be revelling in the expectation of divine glories.

Such was the first Christian, the inventor of Christianity! before him
there were only a few Jewish sectaries.




69.


INIMITABLE.—There is an enormous strain and distance between envy and
friendship, between self-contempt and pride: the Greek lived in the
former, the Christian in the latter.




70.


THE USE OF A COARSE INTELLECT.—The Christian Church is an encyclopædia of
primitive cults and views of the most varied origin; and is, in
consequence, well adapted to missionary work: in former times she
could—and still does—go wherever she would, and in doing so always found
something resembling herself, to which she could assimilate herself and
gradually substitute her own spirit for it. It is not to what is Christian
in her usages, but to what is universally pagan in them, that we have to
attribute the development of this universal religion. Her thoughts, which
have their origin at once in the Judaic and in the Hellenic spirit, were
able from the very beginning to raise themselves above the exclusiveness
and subtleties of races and nations, as above prejudices. Although we may
admire the power which makes even the most difficult things coalesce, we
must nevertheless not overlook the contemptible qualities of this
power—the astonishing coarseness and narrowness of the Church’s intellect
when it was in process of formation, a coarseness which permitted it to
accommodate itself to any diet, and to digest contradictions like pebbles.




71.


THE CHRISTIAN VENGEANCE AGAINST ROME.—Perhaps nothing is more fatiguing
than the sight of a continual conqueror: for more than two hundred years
the world had seen Rome overcoming one nation after another, the circle
was closed, all future seemed to be at an end, everything was done with a
view to its lasting for all time—yea, when the Empire built anything it
was erected with a view to being _aere perennius_. We, who know only the
“melancholy of ruins,” can scarcely understand that totally different
_melancholy of eternal buildings_, from which men endeavoured to save
themselves as best they could—with the light-hearted fancy of a Horace,
for example. Others sought different consolations for the weariness which
was closely akin to despair, against the deadening knowledge that from
henceforth all progress of thought and heart would be hopeless, that the
huge spider sat everywhere and mercilessly continued to drink all the
blood within its reach, no matter where it might spring forth. This mute,
century-old hatred of the wearied spectators against Rome, wherever Rome’s
domination extended, was at length vented in Christianity, which united
Rome, “the world,” and “sin” into a single conception. The Christians took
their revenge on Rome by proclaiming the immediate and sudden destruction
of the world; by once more introducing a future—for Rome had been able to
transform everything into the history of its _own_ past and present—a
future in which Rome was no longer the most important factor; and by
dreaming of the last judgment—while the crucified Jew, as the symbol of
salvation, was the greatest derision on the superb Roman prætors in the
provinces; for now they seemed to be only the symbols of ruin and a
“world” ready to perish.




72.


THE “LIFE AFTER DEATH.”—Christianity found the idea of punishment in hell
in the entire Roman Empire: for the numerous mystic cults have hatched
this idea with particular satisfaction as being the most fecund egg of
their power. Epicurus thought he could do nothing better for his followers
than to tear this belief up by the roots: his triumph found its finest
echo in the mouth of one of his disciples, the Roman Lucretius, a poet of
a gloomy, though afterwards enlightened, temperament. Alas! his triumph
had come too soon: Christianity took under its special protection this
belief in subterranean horrors, which was already beginning to die away in
the minds of men; and that was clever of it. For, without this audacious
leap into the most complete paganism, how could it have proved itself
victorious over the popularity of Mithras and Isis? In this way it managed
to bring timorous folk over to its side—the most enthusiastic adherents of
a new faith! The Jews, being a people which, like the Greeks, and even in
a greater degree than the Greeks, loved and still love life, had not
cultivated that idea to any great extent: the thought of final death as
the punishment of the sinner, death without resurrection as an extreme
menace: this was sufficient to impress these peculiar men, who did not
wish to get rid of their bodies, but hoped, with their refined Egypticism,
to preserve them for ever. (A Jewish martyr, about whom we may read in the
Second Book of the Maccabees, would not think of giving up his intestines,
which had been torn out: he wanted to have them at the resurrection: quite
a Jewish characteristic!)

Thoughts of eternal damnation were far from the minds of the early
Christians: they thought they were _delivered_ from death, and awaited a
transformation from day to day, but not death. (What a curious effect the
first death must have produced on these expectant people! How many
different feelings must have been mingled together—astonishment,
exultation, doubt, shame, and passion! Verily, a subject worthy of a great
artist!) St. Paul could say nothing better in praise of his Saviour than
that he had opened the gates of immortality to everybody—he did not
believe in the resurrection of those who had not been saved: more than
this, by reason of his doctrine of the impossibility of carrying out the
Law, and of death considered as a consequence of sin, he even suspected
that, up to that time, no one had become immortal (or at all events only a
very few, solely owing to special grace and not to any merits of their
own): it was only in his time that immortality had begun to open its
gates—and only a few of the elect would finally gain admittance, as the
pride of the elect cannot help saying.

In other places, where the impulse towards life was not so strong as among
the Jews and the Christian Jews, and where the prospect of immortality did
not appear to be more valuable than the prospect of a final death, that
pagan, yet not altogether un-Jewish addition of Hell became a very useful
tool in the hands of the missionaries: then arose the new doctrine that
even the sinners and the unsaved are immortal, the doctrine of eternal
damnation, which was more powerful than the idea of a _final death_, which
thereafter began to fade away. It was science alone which could overcome
this idea, at the same time brushing aside all other ideas about death and
an after-life. We are poorer in one particular: the “life after death” has
no further interest for us! an indescribable blessing, which is as yet too
recent to be considered as such throughout the world. And Epicurus is once
more triumphant.




73.


FOR THE “TRUTH”!—“The truth of Christianity was attested by the virtuous
lives of the Christians, their firmness in suffering, their unshakable
belief and above all by the spread and increase of the faith in spite of
all calamities.”—That’s how you talk even now. The more’s the pity. Learn,
then, that all this proves nothing either in favour of truth or against
it; that truth must be demonstrated differently from conscientiousness,
and that the latter is in no respect whatever an argument in favour of the
former.




74.


A CHRISTIAN _ARRIÈRE-PENSÉE_.—Would not this have been a general
reservation among Christians of the first century: “It is better to
persuade ourselves into the belief that we are guilty rather than that we
are innocent; for it is impossible to ascertain the disposition of so
powerful a judge—but it is to be feared that he is looking out only for
those who are conscious of guilt. Bearing in mind his great power, it is
more likely that he will pardon a guilty person than admit that any one is
innocent, in his presence.” This was the feeling of poor provincial folk
in the presence of the Roman prætor: “He is too proud for us to dare to be
innocent.” And may not this very sentiment have made its influence felt
when the Christians endeavoured to picture to themselves the aspect of the
Supreme Judge?




75.


NEITHER EUROPEAN NOR NOBLE.—There is something Oriental and feminine in
Christianity, and this is shown in the thought, “Whom the Lord loveth, He
chasteneth”; for women in the Orient consider castigations and the strict
seclusion of their persons from the world as a sign of their husband’s
love, and complain if these signs of love cease.




76.


IF YOU THINK IT EVIL, YOU MAKE IT EVIL.—The passions become evil and
malignant when regarded with evil and malignant eyes. It is in this way
that Christianity has succeeded in transforming Eros and Aphrodite—sublime
powers, capable of idealisation—into hellish genii and phantom goblins, by
means of the pangs which every sexual impulse was made to raise in the
conscience of the believers. Is it not a dreadful thing to transform
necessary and regular sensations into a source of inward misery, and thus
arbitrarily to render interior misery necessary and regular _in the case
of every man_! Furthermore, this misery remains secret with the result
that it is all the more deeply rooted, for it is not all men who have the
courage, which Shakespeare shows in his sonnets, of making public their
Christian gloom on this point.

Must a feeling, then, always be called evil against which we are forced to
struggle, which we must restrain even within certain limits, or, in given
cases, banish entirely from our minds? Is it not the habit of vulgar souls
always to call an _enemy_ evil! and must we call Eros an enemy? The sexual
feelings, like the feelings of pity and adoration, possess the particular
characteristic that, in their case, one being gratifies another by the
pleasure he enjoys—it is but rarely that we meet with such a benevolent
arrangement in nature. And yet we calumniate and corrupt it all by our bad
conscience! We connect the procreation of man with a bad conscience!

But the outcome of this diabolisation of Eros is a mere farce: the “demon”
Eros becomes an object of greater interest to mankind than all the angels
and saints put together, thanks to the mysterious Mumbo-Jumboism of the
Church in all things erotic: it is due to the Church that love stories,
even in our own time, have become the one common interest which appeals to
all classes of people—with an exaggeration which would be incomprehensible
to antiquity, and which will not fail to provoke roars of laughter in
coming generations. All our poetising and thinking, from the highest to
the lowest, is marked, and more than marked, by the exaggerated importance
bestowed upon the love story as the principal item of our existence.
Posterity may perhaps, on this account, come to the conclusion that its
entire legacy of Christian culture is tainted with narrowness and
insanity.




77.


THE TORTURES OF THE SOUL.—The whole world raises a shout of horror at the
present day if one man presumes to torture the body of another: the
indignation against such a being bursts forth almost spontaneously. Nay;
we tremble even at the very thought of torture being inflicted on a man or
an animal, and we undergo unspeakable misery when we hear of such an act
having been accomplished. But the same feeling is experienced in a very
much lesser degree and extent when it is a question of the tortures of the
soul and the dreadfulness of their infliction. Christianity has introduced
such tortures on an unprecedented scale, and still continues to preach
this kind of martyrdom—yea, it even complains innocently of backsliding
and indifference when it meets with a state of soul which is free from
such agonies. From all this it now results that humanity, in the face of
spiritual racks, tortures of the mind, and instruments of punishment,
behaves even to-day with the same awesome patience and indecision which it
exhibited in former times in the presence of the cruelties practised on
the bodies of men or animals. Hell has certainly not remained merely an
empty sound; and a new kind of pity has been devised to correspond to the
newly-created fears of hell—a horrible and ponderous compassion, hitherto
unknown; with people “irrevocably condemned to hell,” as, for example, the
Stony Guest gave Don Juan to understand, and which, during the Christian
era, should often have made the very stones weep.

Plutarch presents us with a gloomy picture of the state of mind of a
superstitious man in pagan times: but this picture pales when compared
with that of a Christian of the Middle Ages, who _supposes_ that nothing
can save him from “torments everlasting.” Dreadful omens appear to him:
perhaps he sees a stork holding a snake in his beak and hesitating to
swallow it. Or all nature suddenly becomes pale; or bright, fiery colours
appear across the surface of the earth. Or the ghosts of his dead
relations approach him, with features showing traces of dreadful
sufferings. Or the dark walls of the room in which the man is sleeping are
suddenly lighted up, and there, amidst a yellow flame, he perceives
instruments of torture and a motley horde of snakes and devils.
Christianity has surely turned this world of ours into a fearful
habitation by raising the crucifix in all parts and thereby proclaiming
the earth to be a place “where the just man is tortured to death!” And
when the ardour of some great preacher for once disclosed to the public
the secret sufferings of the individual, the agonies of the lonely souls,
when, for example, Whitefield preached “like a dying man to the dying,”
now bitterly weeping, now violently stamping his feet, speaking
passionately, in abrupt and incisive tones, without fearing to turn the
whole force of his attack upon any one individual present, excluding him
from the assembly with excessive harshness—then indeed did it seem as if
the earth were being transformed into a “field of evil.” The huge crowds
were then seen to act as if seized with a sudden attack of madness: many
were in fits of anguish; others lay unconscious and motionless; others,
again, trembled or rent the air with their piercing shrieks. Everywhere
there was a loud breathing, as of half-choked people who were gasping for
the breath of life. “Indeed,” said an eye-witness once, “almost all the
noises appeared to come from people who were dying in the bitterest
agony.”

Let us never forget that it was Christianity which first turned the
death-bed into a bed of agony, and that, by the scenes which took place
there, and the terrifying sounds which were made possible there for the
first time, it has poisoned the senses and the blood of innumerable
witnesses and their children. Imagine the ordinary man who can never
efface the recollection of words like these: “Oh, eternity! Would that I
had no soul! Would that I had never been born! My soul is damned, damned;
lost for ever! Six days ago you might have helped me. But now all is over.
I belong to the devil, and with him I will go down to hell. Break, break,
ye poor hearts of stone! Ye will not break? What more can be done for
hearts of stone? I am damned that ye may be saved! There he is! Yea; there
he is! Come, good devil! Come!”




78.


AVENGING JUSTICE.—Misfortune and guilt: these two things have been put on
one scale by Christianity; so that, when the misfortune which follows a
fault is a serious one, this fault is always judged accordingly to be a
very heinous one. But this was not the valuation of antiquity, and that is
why Greek tragedy—in which misfortune and punishment are discussed at
length, and yet in another sense—forms part of the great liberators of the
mind to an extent which even the ancients themselves could not realise.
They remained ingenuous enough not to set up an “adequate relation”
between guilt and misfortune. The guilt of their tragic heroes is, indeed,
the little pebble that makes them stumble, and on which account they
sometimes happen to break an arm or knock out an eye. Upon this the
feeling of antiquity made the comment, “Well, he should have gone his way
with more caution and less pride.” It was reserved for Christianity,
however, to say: “Here we have a great misfortune, and behind this great
misfortune there must lie a great fault, an equally _serious fault_,
though we cannot clearly see it! If, wretched man, you do not feel it, it
is because your heart is hardened—and worse than this will happen to you!”

Besides this, antiquity could point to examples of real misfortunes,
misfortunes that were pure and innocent; it was only with the advent of
Christianity that all punishment became well-merited punishment: in
addition to this it renders the imagination of the sufferer still more
suffering, so that the victim, in the midst of his distress, is seized
with the feeling that he has been morally reproved and cast away. Poor
humanity! The Greeks had a special word to stand for the feeling of
indignation which was experienced at the misfortune of another: among
Christian peoples this feeling was prohibited and was not permitted to
develop; hence the reason why they have no name for this _more virile_
brother of pity.




79.


A PROPOSAL.—If, according to the arguments of Pascal and Christianity, our
ego is always hateful, how can we permit and suppose other people, whether
God or men, to love it? It would be contrary to all good principles to let
ourselves be loved when we know very well that we deserve nothing but
hatred—not to speak of other repugnant feelings. “But this is the very
Kingdom of Grace.” Then you look upon your love for your neighbour as a
grace? Your pity as a grace? Well, then, if you can do all this, there is
no reason why you should not go a step further: love yourselves through
grace, and then you will no longer find your God necessary, and the entire
drama of the Fall and Redemption of mankind will reach its last act in
yourselves!




80.


THE COMPASSIONATE CHRISTIAN.—A Christian’s compassion in the presence of
his neighbour’s suffering has another side to it: viz. his profound
suspicion of all the joy of his neighbour, of his neighbour’s joy in
everything that he wills and is able to do.




81.


THE SAINT’S HUMANITY.—A saint had fallen into the company of believers,
and could no longer stand their continually expressed hatred for sin. At
last he said to them: “God created all things, except sin: therefore it is
no wonder that He does not like it. But man has created sin, and why,
then, should he disown this only child of his merely because it is not
regarded with a friendly eye by God, its grandfather? Is that human?
Honour to whom honour is due—but one’s heart and duty must speak, above
all, in favour of the child—and only in the second place for the honour of
the grandfather!”




82.


THE THEOLOGICAL ATTACK.—“You must arrange that with yourself; for your
life is at stake!”—Luther it is who suddenly springs upon us with these
words and imagines that we feel the knife at our throats. But we throw him
off with the words of one higher and more considerate than he: “We need
form no opinion in regard to this or that matter, and thus save our souls
from trouble. For, by their very nature, the things themselves cannot
compel us to express an opinion.”




83.


POOR HUMANITY!—A single drop of blood too much or too little in the brain
may render our life unspeakably miserable and difficult, and we may suffer
more from this single drop of blood than Prometheus from his vulture. But
the worst is when we do not know that this drop is causing our
sufferings—and we think it is “the devil!” Or “sin!”




84.


THE PHILOLOGY OF CHRISTIANITY.—How little Christianity cultivates the
sense of honesty can be inferred from the character of the writings of its
learned men. They set out their conjectures as audaciously as if they were
dogmas, and are but seldom at a disadvantage in regard to the
interpretation of Scripture. Their continual cry is: “I am right, for it
is written”—and then follows an explanation so shameless and capricious
that a philologist, when he hears it, must stand stock-still between anger
and laughter, asking himself again and again: Is it possible? Is it
honest? Is it even decent?

It is only those who never—or always—attend church that underestimate the
dishonesty with which this subject is still dealt in Protestant pulpits;
in what a clumsy fashion the preacher takes advantage of his security from
interruption; how the Bible is pinched and squeezed; and how the people
are made acquainted with every form of _the art of false reading_.

When all is said and done, however, what can be expected from the effects
of a religion which, during the centuries when it was being firmly
established, enacted that huge philological farce concerning the Old
Testament? I refer to that attempt to tear the Old Testament from the
hands of the Jews under the pretext that it contained only Christian
doctrines and _belonged_ to the Christians as the true people of Israel,
while the Jews had merely arrogated it to themselves without authority.
This was followed by a mania of would-be interpretation and falsification,
which could not under any circumstances have been allied with a good
conscience. However strongly Jewish savants protested, it was everywhere
sedulously asserted that the Old Testament alluded everywhere to Christ,
and nothing but Christ, more especially His Cross, and thus, wherever
reference was made to wood, a rod, a ladder, a twig, a tree, a willow, or
a staff, such a reference could not but be a prophecy relating to the wood
of the Cross: even the setting-up of the Unicorn and the Brazen Serpent,
even Moses stretching forth his hands in prayer—yea, the very spits on
which the Easter lambs were roasted: all these were allusions to the
Cross, and, as it were, preludes to it! Did any one who kept on asserting
these things ever _believe_ in them? Let it not be forgotten that the
Church did not shrink from putting interpolations in the text of the
Septuagint (_e.g._ Ps. xcvi. 10), in order that she might later on make
use of these interpolated passages as Christian prophecies. They were
engaged in a struggle, and thought of their foes rather than of honesty.




85.


SUBTLETY IN PENURY.—Take care not to laugh at the mythology of the Greeks
merely because it so little resembles your own profound metaphysics! You
should admire a people who checked their quick intellect at this point,
and for a long time afterwards had tact enough to avoid the danger of
scholasticism and hair-splitting superstition.




86.


THE CHRISTIAN INTERPRETERS OF THE BODY.—Whatever originates in the
stomach, the intestines, the beating of the heart, the nerves, the bile,
the seed—all those indispositions, debilities, irritations, and the whole
contingency of that machine about which we know so little—a Christian like
Pascal considers it all as a moral and religious phenomenon, asking
himself whether God or the devil, good or evil, salvation or damnation, is
the cause. Alas for the unfortunate interpreter! How he must distort and
worry his system! How he must distort and worry himself in order to gain
his point!




87.


THE MORAL MIRACLE.—In the domain of morality, Christianity knows of
nothing but the miracle; the sudden change in all valuations, the sudden
renouncement of all habits, the sudden and irresistible predilection for
new things and persons. Christianity looks upon this phenomenon as the
work of God, and calls it the act of regeneration, thus giving it a unique
and incomparable value. Everything else which is called morality, and
which bears no relation to this miracle, becomes in consequence a matter
of indifference to the Christian, and indeed, so far as it is a feeling of
well-being and pride, an object of fear. The canon of virtue, of the
fulfilled law, is established in the New Testament, but in such a way as
to be the canon of _impossible virtue_: men who still aspire to moral
perfections must come to understand, in the face of this canon, that they
are further and further _removed_ from their aim; they must _despair_ of
virtue, and end by throwing themselves at the feet of the Merciful One.

It is only in reaching a conclusion like this that moral efforts on the
part of the Christian can still be regarded as possessing any value: the
condition that these efforts shall always remain sterile, painful, and
melancholy is therefore indispensable; and it is in this way that those
efforts could still avail to bring about that moment of ecstasy when man
experiences the “overflow of grace” and the moral miracle. This struggle
for morality is, however, not _necessary_; for it is by no means uncommon
for this miracle to happen to the sinner at the very moment when he is, so
to speak, wallowing in the mire of sin: yea, the leap from the deepest and
most abandoned sinfulness into its contrary seems easier, and, as a clear
proof of the miracle, even more desirable.

What, for the rest, may be the signification of such a sudden,
unreasonable, and irresistible revolution, such a change from the depths
of misery into the heights of happiness? (might it be a disguised
epilepsy?) This should at all events be considered by alienists, who have
frequent opportunities of observing similar “miracles”—for example, the
mania of murder or suicide. The relatively “more pleasant consequences” in
the case of the Christian make no important difference.




88.


LUTHER, THE GREAT BENEFACTOR.—Luther’s most important result is the
suspicion which he awakened against the saints and the entire Christian
_vita contemplativa_; only since his day has an un-Christian _vita
contemplativa_ again become possible in Europe, only since then has
contempt for laymen and worldly activity ceased. Luther continued to be an
honest miner’s son even after he had been shut up in a monastery, and
there, for lack of other depths and “borings,” he descended into himself,
and bored terrifying and dark passages through his own depths—finally
coming to recognise that an introspective and saintly life was impossible
to him, and that his innate “activity” in body and soul would end by being
his ruin. For a long time, too long, indeed, he endeavoured to find the
way to holiness through castigations; but at length he made up his mind,
and said to himself: “There is no real _vita contemplativa_! We have been
deceived. The saints were no better than the rest of us.” This was truly a
rustic way of gaining one’s case; but for the Germans of that period it
was the only proper way. How edified they felt when they could read in
their Lutheran catechism: “Apart from the Ten Commandments there is no
work which could find favour in the eyes of God—these much-boasted
spiritual works of the saints are purely imaginary!”




89.


DOUBT AS SIN.—Christianity has done all it possibly could to draw a circle
round itself, and has even gone so far as to declare doubt itself to be a
sin. We are to be precipitated into faith by a miracle, without the help
of reason, after which we are to float in it as the clearest and least
equivocal of elements—a mere glance at some solid ground, the thought that
we exist for some purpose other than floating, the least movement of our
amphibious nature: all this is a sin! Let it be noted that, following this
decision, the proofs and demonstration of the faith, and all meditations
upon its origin, are prohibited as sinful. Christianity wants blindness
and frenzy and an eternal swan-song above the waves under which reason has
been drowned!




90.


EGOISM _VERSUS_ EGOISM.—How many are there who still come to the
conclusion: “Life would be intolerable were there no God!” Or, as is said
in idealistic circles: “Life would be intolerable if its ethical
signification were lacking.” Hence there must be a God—or an ethical
signification of existence! In reality the case stands thus: He who is
accustomed to conceptions of this sort does not desire a life without
them, hence these conceptions are necessary for him and his
preservation—but what a presumption it is to assert that everything
necessary for my preservation must exist _in reality_! As if my
preservation were really necessary! What if others held the contrary
opinion? if they did not care to live under the conditions of these two
articles of faith, and did not regard life as worth living if they were
realised!—And that is the present position of affairs.




91.


THE HONESTY OF GOD.—An omniscient and omnipotent God who does not even
take care that His intentions shall be understood by His creatures—could
He be a God of goodness? A God, who, for thousands of years, has permitted
innumerable doubts and scruples to continue unchecked as if they were of
no importance in the salvation of mankind, and who, nevertheless,
announces the most dreadful consequences for any one who mistakes his
truth? Would he not be a cruel god if, being himself in possession of the
truth, he could calmly contemplate mankind, in a state of miserable
torment, worrying its mind as to what was truth?

Perhaps, however, he really is a God of goodness, and was unable to
express Himself more clearly? Perhaps he lacked intelligence enough for
this? Or eloquence? All the worse! For in such a case he may have been
deceived himself in regard to what he calls his “truth,” and may not be
far from being another “poor, deceived devil!” Must he not therefore
experience all the torments of hell at seeing His creatures suffering so
much here below—and even more, suffering through all eternity—when he
himself can neither advise nor help them, except as a deaf and dumb
person, who makes all kinds of equivocal signs when his child or his dog
is threatened with the most fearful danger? A distressed believer who
argues thus might be pardoned if his pity for the suffering God were
greater than his pity for his “neighbours”; for they are his neighbours no
longer if that most solitary and primeval being is also the greatest
sufferer and stands most in need of consolation.

Every religion shows some traits of the fact that it owes its origin to a
state of human intellectuality which was as yet too young and immature:
they all make light of the necessity for speaking the truth: as yet they
know nothing of the _duty of God_, the duty of being clear and truthful in
His communications with men. No one was more eloquent than Pascal in
speaking of the “hidden God” and the reasons why He had to keep Himself
hidden, all of which indicates clearly enough that Pascal himself could
never make his mind easy on this point: but he speaks with such confidence
that one is led to imagine that he must have been let into the secret at
some time or other. He seemed to have some idea that the _deus
absconditus_ bore a few slight traces of immorality; and he felt too much
ashamed and afraid of acknowledging this to himself: consequently, like a
man who is afraid, he spoke as loudly as he could.




92.


AT THE DEATH-BED OF CHRISTIANITY.—All truly active men now do without
inward Christianity, and the most moderate and thoughtful men of the
intellectual middle classes possess only a kind of modified Christianity;
that is, a peculiarly simplified Christianity. A God who, in his love,
ordains everything so that it may be best for us, a God who gives us our
virtue and our happiness and then takes them away from us, so that
everything at length goes on smoothly and there is no reason left why we
should take life ill or grumble about it: in short, resignation and
modesty raised to the rank of divinities—that is the best and most
lifelike remnant of Christianity now left to us. It must be remembered,
however, that in this way Christianity has developed into a soft
_moralism_: instead of “God, freedom, and immortality,” we have now a kind
of benevolence and honest sentiments, and the belief that, in the entire
universe, benevolence and honest sentiments will finally prevail: this is
the euthanasia of Christianity.




93.


WHAT IS TRUTH?—Who will not be pleased with the conclusions which the
faithful take such delight in coming to?—“Science cannot be true; for it
denies God. Hence it does not come from God; and consequently it cannot be
true—for God is truth.” It is not the deduction but the premise which is
fallacious. What if God were not exactly truth, and if this were proved?
And if he were instead the vanity, the desire for power, the ambitions,
the fear, and the enraptured and terrified folly of mankind?




94.


REMEDY FOR THE DISPLEASED.—Even Paul already believed that some sacrifice
was necessary to take away the deep displeasure which God experienced
concerning sin: and ever since then Christians have never ceased to vent
the ill-humour which they felt with themselves upon some victim or
another—whether it was “the world,” or “history,” or “reason,” or joy, or
the tranquillity of other men—something good, no matter what, had to die
for _their_ sins (even if only _in effigie_)!




95.


THE HISTORICAL REFUTATION AS THE DECISIVE ONE.—Formerly it was sought to
prove that there was no God—now it is shown how the belief that a God
existed could have _originated_, and by what means this belief gained
authority and importance: in this way the counterproof that there is no
God becomes unnecessary and superfluous.—In former times, when the
“evidences of the existence of God” which had been brought forward were
refuted, a doubt still remained, viz. whether better proofs could not be
found than those which had just been refuted: at that time the atheists
did not understand the art of making a _tabula rasa_.




96.


“IN HOC SIGNO VINCES.”—To whatever degree of progress Europe may have
attained in other respects, where religious affairs are concerned it has
not yet reached the liberal naïveté of the ancient Brahmins, which proves
that, in India, four thousand years ago, people meditated more profoundly
and transmitted to their descendants more pleasure in meditating than is
the case in our own days. For those Brahmins believed in the first place
that the priests were more powerful than the gods, and in the second place
that it was observances which constituted the power of the priests: as a
result of which their poets were never tired of glorifying those
observances (prayers, ceremonies, sacrifices, chants, improvised melodies)
as the real dispensers of all benefits. Although a certain amount of
superstition and poetry was mingled with all this, the principles were
_true_! A step further, and the gods were cast aside—which Europe likewise
will have to do before very long! One more step further, and priests and
intermediaries could also be dispensed with—and then Buddha, the teacher
of the religion of self-redemption, appeared. How far Europe is still
removed from this degree of culture! When at length all the customs and
observances, upon which rests the power of gods, priests, and saviours,
shall have been destroyed, when as a consequence morality, in the old
sense, will be dead, then there will come ... yea, what will come then?
But let us refrain from speculating; let us rather make certain that
Europe will retrieve that which, in India, amidst this people of thinkers,
was carried out thousands of years ago as a commandment of thought!

Scattered among the different nations of Europe there are now from ten to
twenty millions of men who no longer “believe in God”—is it too much to
ask that they should give each other some indication or password? As soon
as they recognise each other in this way, they will also make themselves
known to each other; and they will immediately become a power in Europe,
and, happily, a power _among_ the nations! among the classes! between rich
and poor! between those who command, and those who obey! between the most
restless and the most tranquil, tranquillising people!





BOOK II.




97.


ONE BECOMES MORAL—but not because one is moral! Submission to morals may
be due to slavishness or vanity, egoism or resignation, dismal fanaticism
or thoughtlessness. It may, again, be an act of despair, such as
submission to the authority of a ruler; but there is nothing moral about
it _per se_.




98.


ALTERATIONS IN MORALS.—Morals are constantly undergoing changes and
transformations, occasioned by successful crimes. (To these, for example,
belong all innovations in moral judgments.)




99.


WHEREIN WE ARE ALL IRRATIONAL.—We still continue to draw conclusions from
judgments which we consider as false, or doctrines in which we no longer
believe,—through our feelings.




100.


AWAKING FROM A DREAM.—Noble and wise men once upon a time believed in the
music of the spheres; there are still noble and wise men who believe in
“the moral significance of existence,” but there will come a day when this
music of the spheres also will no longer be audible to them. They will
awake and perceive that their ears have been dreaming.




101.


OPEN TO DOUBT.—To accept a belief simply because it is customary implies
that one is dishonest, cowardly, and lazy.—Must dishonesty, cowardice, and
laziness, therefore, be the primary conditions of morality?




102.


THE MOST ANCIENT MORAL JUDGMENTS.—What attitude do we assume towards the
acts of our neighbour?—In the first place, we consider how they may
benefit ourselves—we see them only in this light. It is this effect which
we regard as the intention of the acts,—and in the end we come to look
upon these intentions of our neighbour as permanent qualities in him, and
we call him, for example, “a dangerous man.” Triple error! Triple and most
ancient mistake! Perhaps this inheritance comes to us from the animals and
their faculty of judgment! Must not the origin of all morality be sought
in these detestable narrow-minded conclusions: “Whatever injures me is
evil (something injurious in itself), whatever benefits me is good
(beneficial and profitable in itself), whatever injures me once or several
times is hostile _per se_; whatever benefits me once or several times is
friendly _per se_.” _O pudenda origo!_ Is not this equivalent to
interpreting the contemptible, occasional, and often merely accidental
relations of another person to us as his primary and most essential
qualities, and affirming that towards himself and every one else he is
only capable of such actions as we ourselves have experienced at his hands
once or several times! And is not this thorough folly based upon the most
immodest of all mental reservations: namely, that we ourselves must be the
standard of what is good, since we determine good and evil?




103.


THERE ARE TWO CLASSES OF PEOPLE WHO DENY MORALITY.—To deny morality may
mean, in the first place, to deny the moral inducements which, men
pretend, have urged them on to their actions,—which is equivalent to
saying that morality merely consists of words and forms, part of that
coarse and subtle deceit (especially self-deceit) which is characteristic
of mankind, and perhaps more especially of those men who are celebrated
for their virtues. In the second place, it may mean our denying that moral
judgments are founded on truths. It is admitted in such a case that these
judgments are, in fact, the motives of the actions, but that in this way
it is really errors as the basis of all moral judgments which urge men on
to their moral actions. This is my point of view; but I should be far from
denying that in very many cases a subtle suspicion in accordance with the
former point of view—_i.e._ in the spirit of La Rochefoucauld—is also
justifiable, and in any case of a high general utility.—Therefore I deny
morality in the same way as I deny alchemy, _i.e._ I deny its hypotheses;
but I do not deny that there have been alchemists who believed in these
hypotheses and based their actions upon them. I also deny immorality—not
that innumerable people feel immoral, but that there is any true reason
why they should feel so. I should not, of course, deny—unless I were a
fool—that many actions which are called immoral should be avoided and
resisted; and in the same way that many which are called moral should be
performed and encouraged; but I hold that in both cases these actions
should be performed from motives other than those which have prevailed up
to the present time. We must learn anew in order that at last, perhaps
very late in the day, we may be able to do something more: feel anew.




104.


OUR VALUATIONS.—All actions may be referred back to valuations, and all
valuations are either one’s own or adopted, the latter being by far the
more numerous. Why do we adopt them? Through fear, _i.e._ we think it more
advisable to pretend that they are our own, and so well do we accustom
ourselves to do so that it at last becomes second nature to us. A
valuation of our own, which is the appreciation of a thing in accordance
with the pleasure or displeasure it causes us and no one else, is
something very rare indeed!—But must not our valuation of our
neighbour—which is prompted by the motive that we adopt his valuation in
most cases—proceed from ourselves and by our own decision? Of course, but
then we come to these decisions during our childhood, and seldom change
them. We often remain during our whole lifetime the dupes of our childish
and accustomed judgments in our manner of judging our fellow-men (their
minds, rank, morality, character, and reprehensibility), and we find it
necessary to subscribe to their valuations.




105.


PSEUDO-EGOISM.—The great majority of people, whatever they may think and
say about their “egoism,” do nothing for their ego all their life long,
but only for a phantom of this ego which has been formed in regard to them
by their friends and communicated to them. As a consequence, they all live
in a haze of impersonal and half-personal opinions and of arbitrary and,
as it were, poetic valuations: the one always in the head of another, and
this head, again, in the head of somebody else—a queer world of phantoms
which manages to give itself a rational appearance! This haze of opinions
and habits grows in extent and lives almost independently of the people it
surrounds; it is it which gives rise to the immense effect of general
judgments on “man”—all those men, who do not know themselves, believe in a
bloodless abstraction which they call “man,” _i.e._ in a fiction; and
every change caused in this abstraction by the judgments of powerful
individualities (such as princes and philosophers) produces an
extraordinary and irrational effect on the great majority,—for the simple
reason that not a single individual in this haze can oppose a real ego, an
ego which is accessible to and fathomed by himself, to the universal pale
fiction, which he could thereby destroy.




106.


AGAINST DEFINITIONS OF MORAL AIMS.—On all sides we now hear the aim of
morals defined as the preservation and advancement of humanity; but this
is merely the expression of a wish to have a formula and nothing more.
Preservation wherein? advancement whither? These are questions which must
at once be asked. Is not the most essential point, the answer to this
_wherein?_ and _whither?_ left out of the formula? What results therefrom,
so far as our own actions and duties are concerned, which is not already
tacitly and instinctively understood? Can we sufficiently understand from
this formula whether we must prolong as far as possible the existence of
the human race, or bring about the greatest possible disanimalisation of
man? How different the means, _i.e._ the practical morals, would have to
be in the two cases! Supposing that the greatest possible rationality were
given to mankind, this certainly would not guarantee the longest possible
existence for them! Or supposing that their “greatest happiness” was
thought to be the answer to the questions put, do we thereby mean the
highest degree of happiness which a few individuals might attain, or an
incalculable, though finally attainable, average state of happiness for
all? And why should morality be the way to it? Has not morality,
considered as a whole, opened up so many sources of displeasure as to lead
us to think that man up to the present, with every new refinement of
morality, has become more and more discontented with himself, with his
neighbour, and with his own lot? Has not the most moral of men hitherto
believed that the only justifiable state of mankind in the face of morals
is that of the deepest misery?




107.


OUR RIGHT TO OUR FOLLY.—How must we act? Why must we act? So far as the
coarse and immediate needs of the individual are concerned, it is easy to
answer these questions, but the more we enter upon the more important and
more subtle domains of action, the more does the problem become uncertain
and the more arbitrary its solution. An arbitrary decision, however, is
the very thing that must be excluded here,—thus commands the authority of
morals: an obscure uneasiness and awe must relentlessly guide man in those
very actions the objects and means of which he cannot at once perceive.
This authority of morals undermines our thinking faculty in regard to
those things concerning which it might be dangerous to think wrongly,—it
is in this way, at all events, that morality usually justifies itself to
its accusers. Wrong in this place means dangerous; but dangerous to whom?
It is not, as a rule, the danger of the doer of the action which the
supporters of authoritative morals have in view, but their own danger; the
loss which their power and influence might undergo if the right to act
according to their own greater or lesser reason, however wilfully and
foolishly, were accorded to all men. They on their part make unhesitating
use of their right to arbitrariness and folly,—they even command in cases
where it is hardly possible, or at all events very difficult, to answer
the questions, “How must they act, why must they act?” And if the reason
of mankind grows with such extraordinary slowness that it was often
possible to deny its growth during the whole course of humanity, what is
more to blame for this than this solemn presence, even omnipresence, of
moral commands, which do not even permit the individual question of how
and why to be asked at all? Have we not been educated precisely in such a
way as to make us feel pathetic, and thus to obscure our vision at the
very time when our reason should be able to see as clearly and calmly as
possible—_i.e._ in all higher and more important circumstances?




108.


SOME THESES.—We should not give the individual, in so far as he desires
his own happiness, any precepts or recommendations as to the road leading
to happiness; for individual happiness arises from particular laws that
are unknown to anybody, and such a man will only be hindered or obstructed
by recommendations which come to him from outside sources. Those precepts
which are called moral are in reality directed against individuals, and do
not by any means make for the happiness of such individuals. The
relationship of these precepts to the "happiness and well-being of
mankind" is equally slight, for it is quite impossible to assign a
definite conception to these words, and still less can they be employed as
guiding stars on the dark sea of moral aspirations. It is a prejudice to
think that morality is more favourable to the development of the reason
than immorality. It is erroneous to suppose that the unconscious aim in
the development of every conscious being (namely, animal, man, humanity,
etc.) is its “greatest happiness”: on the contrary, there is a particular
and incomparable happiness to be attained at every stage of our
development, one that is neither high nor low, but quite an individual
happiness. Evolution does not make happiness its goal; it aims merely at
evolution, and nothing else. It is only if humanity had a universally
recognised goal that we could propose to do this or that: for the time
being there is no such goal. It follows that the pretensions of morality
should not be brought into any relationship with mankind: this would be
merely childish and irrational. It is quite another thing to recommend a
goal to mankind: this goal would then be something that would depend upon
our own will and pleasure. Provided that mankind in general agreed to
adopt such a goal, it could then impose a moral law upon itself, a law
which would, at all events, be imposed by their own free will. Up to now,
however, the moral law has had to be placed above our own free will:
strictly speaking, men did not wish to impose this law upon themselves;
they wished to take it from somewhere, to discover it, or to let
themselves be commanded by it from somewhere.




109.


SELF-CONTROL AND MODERATION, AND THEIR FINAL MOTIVE.—I find not more than
six essentially different methods for combating the vehemence of an
impulse. First of all, we may avoid the occasion for satisfying the
impulse, weakening and mortifying it by refraining from satisfying it for
long and ever-lengthening periods. Secondly, we may impose a severe and
regular order upon ourselves in regard to the satisfying of our appetites.
By thus regulating the impulse and limiting its ebb and flow to fixed
periods, we may obtain intervals in which it ceases to disturb us; and by
beginning in this way we may perhaps be able to pass on to the first
method. In the third place, we may deliberately give ourselves over to an
unrestrained and unbounded gratification of the impulse in order that we
may become disgusted with it, and to obtain by means of this very disgust
a command over the impulse: provided, of course, that we do not imitate
the rider who rides his horse to death and breaks his own neck in doing
so. For this, unhappily, is generally the outcome of the application of
this third method.

In the fourth place, there is an intellectual trick, which consists in
associating the idea of the gratification so firmly with some painful
thought, that after a little practice the thought of gratification is
itself immediately felt as a very painful one. (For example, when the
Christian accustoms himself to think of the presence and scorn of the
devil in the course of sensual enjoyment, or everlasting punishment in
hell for revenge by murder; or even merely of the contempt which he will
meet with from those of his fellow-men whom he most respects, if he steals
a sum of money, or if a man has often checked an intense desire for
suicide by thinking of the grief and self-reproaches of his relations and
friends, and has thus succeeded in balancing himself upon the edge of
life: for, after some practice, these ideas follow one another in his mind
like cause and effect.) Among instances of this kind may be mentioned the
cases of Lord Byron and Napoleon, in whom the pride of man revolted and
took offence at the preponderance of one particular passion over the
collective attitude and order of reason. From this arises the habit and
joy of tyrannising over the craving and making it, as it were, gnash its
teeth. “I will not be a slave of any appetite,” wrote Byron in his diary.
In the fifth place, we may bring about a dislocation of our powers by
imposing upon ourselves a particularly difficult and fatiguing task, or by
deliberately submitting to some new charm and pleasure in order thus to
turn our thoughts and physical powers into other channels. It comes to the
same thing if we temporarily favour another impulse by affording it
numerous opportunities of gratification, and thus rendering it the
squanderer of the power which would otherwise be commandeered, so to
speak, by the tyrannical impulse. A few, perhaps, will be able to restrain
the particular passion which aspires to domination by granting their other
known passions a temporary encouragement and license in order that they
may devour the food which the tyrant wishes for himself alone.

In the sixth and last place, the man who can stand it, and thinks it
reasonable to weaken and subdue his entire physical and psychical
organisation, likewise, of course, attains the goal of weakening a single
violent instinct; as, for example, those who starve their sensuality and
at the same time their vigour, and often destroy their reason into the
bargain, such as the ascetics.—Hence, shunning the opportunities,
regulating the impulse, bringing about satiety and disgust in the impulse,
associating a painful idea (such as that of discredit, disgust, or
offended pride), then the dislocation of one’s forces, and finally general
debility and exhaustion: these are the six methods. But the will to combat
the violence of a craving is beyond our power, equally with the method we
adopt and the success we may have in applying it. In all this process our
intellect is rather merely the blind instrument of another rival craving,
whether it be the impulse to repose, or the fear of disgrace and other
evil consequences, or love. While “we” thus imagine that we are
complaining of the violence of an impulse, it is at bottom merely one
impulse which is complaining of another, _i.e._ the perception of the
violent suffering which is being caused us presupposes that there is
another equally or more violent impulse, and that a struggle is impending
in which our intellect must take part.




110.


THAT WHICH OPPOSES.—We may observe the following process in ourselves, and
I should like it to be often observed and confirmed. There arises in us
the scent of a kind of pleasure hitherto unknown to us, and consequently a
new craving. Now, the question is, What opposes itself to this craving? If
it be things and considerations of a common kind, or people whom we hold
in no very high esteem, the aim of the new craving assumes the appearance
of a “noble, good, praiseworthy feeling, and one worthy of sacrifice”: all
the moral dispositions which have been inherited will adopt it and will
add it to the number of those aims which we consider as moral—and now we
imagine that we are no longer striving after a pleasure, but after a
morality, which greatly increases our confidence in our aspirations.




111.


TO THE ADMIRERS OF OBJECTIVENESS.—He who, as a child, has observed in his
parents and acquaintances in the midst of whom he has grown up, certain
varied and strong feelings, with but little subtle discernment and
inclination for intellectual justice, and has therefore employed his best
powers and his most precious time in imitating these feelings, will
observe in himself when he arrives at years of discretion that every new
thing or man he meets with excites in him either sympathy or aversion,
envy or contempt. Under the domination of this experience, which he is
powerless to shake off, he admires neutrality of feeling or “objectivity”
as an extraordinary thing, as something connected with genius or a very
rare morality, and he cannot believe that even this neutrality is merely
the product of education and habit.




112.


ON THE NATURAL HISTORY OF DUTY AND RIGHT.—Our duties are the claims which
others have upon us. How did they acquire these claims? By the fact that
they considered us as capable of making and holding agreements and
contracts, by assuming that we were their like and equals, and by
consequently entrusting something to us, bringing us up, educating us, and
supporting us. We do our duty, _i.e._ we justify that conception of our
power for the sake of which all these things were done for us. We return
them in proportion as they were meted out to us. It is thus our pride that
orders us to do our duty—we desire to re-establish our own independence by
opposing to that which others have done for us something that we do for
them, for in that way the others invade our sphere of power, and would for
ever have a hand in it if we did not make reprisals by means of “duty,”
and thus encroach upon their power. The rights of others can only have
regard to that which lies within our power; it would be unreasonable on
their part to require something from us which does not belong to us. To
put the matter more accurately, their rights can only relate to what they
imagine to be in our power, provided that it is something that we
ourselves consider as being in our power. The same error may easily occur
on either side. The feeling of duty depends upon our having the same
belief in regard to the extent of our power as other people have, _i.e._
that we can promise certain things and undertake to do them freely (“free
will”).

My rights consist of that part of my power which others have not only
conceded to me, but which they wish to maintain for me. Why do they do it?
On the one hand they are actuated by wisdom, fear and prudence: whether
they expect something similar from us (the protection of their rights),
whether they consider a struggle with us as dangerous or inopportune, or
whether they see a disadvantage to themselves in every diminution of our
power, since in that case we should be ill adapted for an alliance with
them against a hostile third power. On the other hand rights are granted
by donations and cessions. In this latter case, the other people have not
only enough power, but more than enough, so that they can give up a
portion and guarantee it to the person to whom they give it: whereby they
presuppose a certain restricted sense of power in the person upon whom
they have bestowed the gift. In this way rights arise: recognised and
guaranteed degrees of power. When the relations of powers to one another
are materially changed, rights disappear and new ones are formed, as is
demonstrated by the constant flux and reflux of the rights of nations.
When our power diminishes to any great extent, the feelings of those who
hitherto guaranteed it undergo some change: they consider whether they
shall once again restore us to our former possession, and if they do not
see their way to do this they deny our “rights” from that time forward. In
the same way, if our power increases to a considerable extent the feelings
of those who previously recognised it, and whose recognition we no longer
require, likewise change: they will then try to reduce our power to its
former dimensions, and they will endeavour to interfere in our affairs,
justifying their interference by an appeal to their “duty.” But this is
merely useless word-quibbling. Where right prevails, a certain state and
degree of power is maintained, and all attempts at its augmentation and
diminution are resisted. The right of others is the concession of our
feeling of power to the feeling of power in these others. Whenever our
power shows itself to be thoroughly shattered and broken, our rights
cease: on the other hand, when we have become very much stronger, the
rights of others cease in our minds to be what we have hitherto admitted
them to be. The man who aims at being just, therefore, must keep a
constant lookout for the changes in the indicator of the scales in order
that he may properly estimate the degrees of power and right which, with
the customary transitoriness of human things, retain their equilibrium for
only a short time and in most cases continue to rise and fall. As a
consequence it is thus very difficult to be “just,” and requires much
experience, good intentions, and an unusually large amount of good sense.




113.


STRIVING FOR DISTINCTION.—When we strive after distinction we must
ceaselessly keep our eyes fixed on our neighbour and endeavour to
ascertain what his feelings are; but the sympathy and knowledge which are
necessary to satisfy this desire are far from being inspired by
harmlessness, compassion, or kindness. On the contrary, we wish to
perceive or find out in what way our neighbour suffers from us, either
internally or externally, how he loses control over himself and yields to
the impression which our hand or even our mere appearance makes on him.
Even when he who aspires to distinction makes or wishes to make a joyful,
elevating, or cheerful impression, he does not enjoy this success in that
he rejoices, exalts, or cheers his neighbour, but in that he leaves his
impress on the latter’s soul, changing its form and dominating it
according to his will. The desire for distinction is the desire to subject
one’s neighbour, even if it be merely in an indirect fashion, one only
felt or even only dreamt of. There is a long series of stages in this
secretly-desired will to subdue, and a very complete record of them would
perhaps almost be like an excellent history of culture from the early
distortions of barbarism down to the caricatures of modern over-refinement
and sickly idealism.

This desire for distinction entails upon our neighbour—to indicate only a
few rungs of the long ladder—torture first of all, followed by blows, then
terror, anxious surprise, wonder, envy, admiration, elevation, pleasure,
joy, laughter, derision, mockery, sneers, scourging and self-inflicted
torture. There at the very top of the ladder stands the ascetic and
martyr, who himself experiences the utmost satisfaction, because he
inflicts on himself, as a result of his desire for distinction, that pain
which his opposite, the barbarian on the first rung of the ladder,
inflicts upon those others, upon whom and before whom he wishes to
distinguish himself. The triumph of the ascetic over himself, his
introspective glance, which beholds a man split up into a sufferer and a
spectator, and which henceforth never looks at the outside world but to
gather from it, as it were, wood for his own funeral pyre: this final
tragedy of the desire for distinction which shows us only one person who,
so to speak, is consumed internally—that is an end worthy of the
beginning: in both cases there is an inexpressible happiness at the sight
of torture; indeed, happiness considered as a feeling of power developed
to the utmost, has perhaps never reached a higher pitch of perfection on
earth than in the souls of superstitious ascetics. This is expressed by
the Brahmins in the story of King Visvamitra, who obtained so much
strength by thousands of years of penance that he undertook to construct a
new heaven. I believe that in the entire category of inward experiences
the people of our time are mere novices and clumsy guessers who “try to
have a shot at it”: four thousand years ago much more was known about
these execrable refinements of self-enjoyment. Perhaps at that time the
creation of the world was imagined by some Hindu dreamer to have been an
ascetic operation which a god took upon himself! Perhaps this god may have
wished to join himself to a mobile nature as an instrument of torture in
order thus to feel his happiness and power doubled! And even supposing him
to have been a god of love: what a delight it would have been for him to
create a suffering mankind in order that he himself might suffer divinely
and super-humanly from the sight of the continual torture of his
creatures, and thus to tyrannise over himself! And, again, supposing him
to have been not only a god of love, but also a god of holiness, we can
scarcely conceive the ecstasies of this divine ascetic while creating sins
and sinners and eternal punishment, and an immense place of eternal
torture below his throne where there is a continual weeping and wailing
and gnashing of teeth!

It is not by any means impossible that the soul of a St. Paul, a Dante, or
a Calvin, and people like them, may once have penetrated into the
terrifying secrets of such voluptuousness of power, and in view of such
souls we may well ask whether the circle of this desire for distinction
has come to a close with the ascetic. Might it not be possible for the
course of this circle to be traversed a second time, by uniting the
fundamental idea of the ascetic, and at the same time that of a
compassionate Deity? In other words, pain would be given to others in
order that pain might be given to one’s self, so that in this way one
could triumph over one’s self and one’s pity to enjoy the extreme
voluptuousness of power.—Forgive me these digressions, which come to my
mind when I think of all the possibilities in the vast domain of psychical
debaucheries to which one may be led by the desire for power!




114.


ON THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE SUFFERER.—The state of sick men who have suffered
long and terribly from the torture inflicted upon them by their illness,
and whose reason has nevertheless not been in any way affected, is not
without a certain amount of value in our search for knowledge—quite apart
from the intellectual benefits which follow upon every profound solitude
and every sudden and justified liberation from duties and habits. The man
who suffers severely looks forth with terrible calmness from his state of
suffering upon outside things: all those little lying enchantments, by
which things are usually surrounded when seen through the eye of a healthy
person, have vanished from the sufferer; his own life even lies there
before him, stripped of all bloom and colour. If by chance it has happened
that up to then he has lived in some kind of dangerous fantasy, this
extreme disenchantment through pain is the means, and possibly the only
means, of extricating him from it. (It is possible that this is what
happened to the Founder of Christianity when suspended from the Cross; for
the bitterest words ever pronounced, “My God, My God, why hast Thou
forsaken Me?” if understood in their deepest sense, as they ought to be
understood, contain the evidence of a complete disillusionment and
enlightenment in regard to the deceptions of life: in that moment of
supreme suffering Christ obtained a clear insight into Himself, just as in
the poet’s narrative did the poor dying Don Quixote.)

The formidable tension of the intellect that wishes to hold its own
against pain shows everything that one now looks upon in a new light, and
the inexpressible charm of this new light is often powerful enough to
withstand all the seductiveness of suicide and to make the continuation of
life seem very desirable to the sufferer. His mind scornfully turns to the
warm and comfortable dream-world in which the healthy man moves about
thoughtlessly, and he thinks with contempt of the noblest and most
cherished illusions in which he formerly indulged. He experiences delight
in conjuring up this contempt as if from the depths of hell, and thus
inflicting the bitterest sufferings upon his soul: it is by this
counterpoise that he bears up against physical suffering—he feels that
such a counterpoise is now essential! In one terrible moment of
clear-sightedness he says to himself, “Be for once thine own accuser and
hangman; for once regard thy suffering as a punishment which thou hast
inflicted on thyself! Enjoy thy superiority as a judge: better still,
enjoy thine own will and pleasure, thy tyrannical arbitrariness! Raise
thyself above thy life as above thy suffering, and look down into the
depth of reason and unreason!”

Our pride revolts as it never did before, it experiences an incomparable
charm in defending life against such a tyrant as suffering and against all
the insinuations of this tyrant, who would fain urge us to give evidence
against life,—we are taking the part of life in the face of this tyrant.
In this state of mind we take up a bitter stand against all pessimism in
order that it may not appear to be a consequence of our condition, and
thus humiliate us as conquered ones. The charm of being just in our
judgments was also never greater than now; for now this justice is a
triumph over ourselves and over so irritated a state of mind that
unfairness of judgment might be excused,—but we will not be excused, it is
now, if ever, that we wish to show that we need no excuse. We pass through
downright orgies of pride.

And now appears the first ray of relief, of recovery, and one of its first
effects is that we turn against the preponderance of our pride: we call
ourselves foolish and vain, as if we had undergone some unique experience.
We humiliate ungratefully this all-powerful pride, the aid of which
enabled us to endure the pain we suffered, and we call vehemently for some
antidote for this pride: we wish to become strangers to ourselves and to
be freed from our own person after pain has forcibly made us personal too
long. “Away with this pride,” we cry, “it was only another illness and
convulsion!” Once more we look longingly at men and nature and recollect
with a sorrowful smile that now since the veil has fallen we regard many
things concerning them in a new and different light,—but we are refreshed
by once more seeing the softened lights of life, and emerge from that
fearfully dispassionate daylight in which we as sufferers saw things and
through things. We do not get angry when we see the charms of health
resume their play, and we contemplate the sight as if transformed, gently
and still fatigued. In this state we cannot listen to music without
weeping.




115.


THE SO-CALLED “EGO.”—Language and the prejudices upon which language is
based very often act as obstacles in our paths when we proceed to explore
internal phenomena and impulses: as one example, we may instance the fact
that there are only words to express the superlative degrees of these
phenomena and impulses. Now, it is our habit no longer to observe
accurately when words fail us, since it is difficult in such cases to
think with precision: in former times, even, people involuntarily came to
the conclusion that where the domain of words ceased, the domain of
existence ceased also. Wrath, hatred, love, pity, desire, recognition,
joy, pain: all these are names indicating extreme conditions; the milder
and middle stages, and even more particularly the ever active lower
stages, escape our attention, and yet it is they which weave the warp and
woof of our character and destiny. It often happens that these extreme
outbursts—and even the most moderate pleasure or displeasure of which we
are actually conscious, whether in partaking of food or listening to a
sound, is possibly, if properly estimated, merely an extreme
outburst,—destroy the texture and are then violent exceptions, in most
cases the consequences of some congestions,—and how easily as such can
they mislead the observer! as indeed they mislead the person acting! We
are all of us not what we appear to be according to the conditions for
which alone we have consciousness and words, and consequently praise and
blame. We fail to recognise ourselves after these coarse outbursts which
are known to ourselves alone, we draw conclusions from data where the
exceptions prove stronger than the rules; we misinterpret ourselves in
reading our own ego’s pronouncements, which appeared to be so clear. But
our opinion of ourselves, this so-called ego which we have arrived at by
this wrong method, contributes henceforth to form our character and
destiny.




116.


THE UNKNOWN WORLD OF THE “SUBJECT.”—What men have found it so difficult to
understand from the most ancient times down to the present day is their
ignorance in regard to themselves, not merely with respect to good and
evil, but something even more essential. The oldest of illusions lives on,
namely, that we know, and know precisely in each case, how human action is
originated. Not only “God who looks into the heart,” not only the man who
acts and reflects upon his action, but everybody does not doubt that he
understands the phenomena of action in every one else. “I know what I want
and what I have done, I am free and responsible for my act, and I make
others responsible for their acts; I can mention by its name every moral
possibility and every internal movement which precedes an act,—ye may act
as ye will, I understand myself and I understand you all!” Such was what
every one thought once upon a time, and almost every one thinks so even
now. Socrates and Plato, who in this matter were great sceptics and
admirable innovators, were nevertheless intensely credulous in regard to
that fatal prejudice, that profound error, which holds that “The right
knowledge must necessarily be followed by the right action.” In holding
this principle they were still the heirs of the universal folly and
presumption that knowledge exists concerning the essence of an action.

“It would indeed be dreadful if the comprehension of the essence of a
right action were not followed by that right action itself”—this was the
only manner in which these great men thought it necessary to demonstrate
this idea, the contrary seemed to them to be inconceivable and mad; and
nevertheless this contrary corresponds to the naked reality which has been
demonstrated daily and hourly from time immemorial. Is it not a “dreadful”
truth that all that we know about an act is never sufficient to accomplish
it, that the bridge connecting the knowledge of the act with the act
itself has never yet been built? Acts are never what they appear to us to
be. We have taken great pains to learn that external things are not as
they appear to us.—Well! It is the same with internal phenomena. All moral
acts are in reality “something different,”—we cannot say anything more
about them, and all acts are essentially unknown to us. The general
belief, however, has been and still is quite the contrary: the most
ancient realism is against us: up to the present humanity has thought, “An
action is what it appears to be.” (In re-reading these words a very
expressive passage from Schopenhauer occurs to me, and I will quote it as
a proof that he, too, without the slightest scruple, continued to adhere
to this moral realism: “Each one of us is in reality a competent and
perfect moral judge, knowing exactly good and evil, made holy by loving
good and despising evil,—such is every one of us in so far as the acts of
others and not his own are under consideration, and when he has merely to
approve or disapprove, whilst the burden of the performance of the acts is
borne by other shoulders. Every one is therefore justified in occupying as
confessor the place of God.”)




117.


IN PRISON.—My eye, whether it be keen or weak, can only see a certain
distance, and it is within this space that I live and move: this horizon
is my immediate fate, greater or lesser, from which I cannot escape. Thus,
a concentric circle is drawn round every being, which has a centre and is
peculiar to himself. In the same way our ear encloses us in a small space,
and so likewise does our touch. We measure the world by these horizons
within which our senses confine each of us within prison walls. We say
that this is near and that is far distant, that this is large and that is
small, that one thing is hard and another soft; and this appreciation of
things we call sensation—but it is all an error _per se_! According to the
number of events and emotions which it is on an average possible for us to
experience in a given space of time, we measure our lives; we call them
short or long, rich or poor, full or empty; and according to the average
of human life we estimate that of other beings,—and all this is an error
_per se_!

If we had eyes a hundred times more piercing to examine the things that
surround us, men would seem to us to be enormously tall; we can even
imagine organs by means of which men would appear to us to be of
immeasurable stature. On the other hand, certain organs could be so formed
as to permit us to view entire solar systems as if they were contracted
and brought close together like a single cell: and to beings of an inverse
order a single cell of the human body could be made to appear in its
construction, movement, and harmony as if it were a solar system in
itself. The habits of our senses have wrapped us up in a tissue of lying
sensations which in their turn lie at the base of all our judgments and
our “knowledge,”—there are no means of exit or escape to the real world!
We are like spiders in our own webs, and, whatever we may catch in them,
it will only be something that our web is capable of catching.




118.


WHAT IS OUR NEIGHBOUR?—What do we conceive of our neighbour except his
limits: I mean that whereby he, as it were, engraves and stamps himself in
and upon us? We can understand nothing of him except the changes which
take place upon our own person and of which he is the cause, what we know
of him is like a hollow, modelled space. We impute to him the feelings
which his acts arouse in us, and thus give him a wrong and inverted
positivity. We form him after our knowledge of ourselves into a satellite
of our own system, and if he shines upon us, or grows dark, and we in any
case are the ultimate cause of his doing so, we nevertheless still believe
the contrary! O world of phantoms in which we live! O world so perverted,
topsy-turvy and empty, and yet dreamt of as full and upright!




119.


EXPERIENCE AND INVENTION.—To however high a degree a man can attain to
knowledge of himself, nothing can be more incomplete than the conception
which he forms of the instincts constituting his individuality. He can
scarcely name the more common instincts: their number and force, their
flux and reflux, their action and counteraction, and, above all, the laws
of their nutrition, remain absolutely unknown to him. This nutrition,
therefore, becomes a work of chance: the daily experiences of our lives
throw their prey now to this instinct and now to that, and the instincts
gradually seize upon it; but the ebb and flow of these experiences does
not stand in any rational relationship to the nutritive needs of the total
number of the instincts. Two things, then, must always happen: some
cravings will be neglected and starved to death, while others will be
overfed. Every moment in the life of man causes some polypous arms of his
being to grow and others to wither away, in accordance with the nutriment
which that moment may or may not bring with it. Our experiences, as I have
already said, are all in this sense means of nutriment, but scattered
about with a careless hand and without discrimination between the hungry
and the overfed. As a consequence of this accidental nutrition of each
particular part, the polypus in its complete development will be something
just as fortuitous as its growth.

To put this more clearly: let us suppose that an instinct or craving has
reached that point when it demands gratification,—either the exercise of
its power or the discharge of it, or the filling up of a vacuum (all this
is metaphorical language),—then it will examine every event that occurs in
the course of the day to ascertain how it can be utilised with the object
of fulfilling its aim: whether the man runs or rests, or is angry, or
reads or speaks or fights or rejoices, the unsatiated instinct watches, as
it were, every condition into which the man enters, and, as a rule, if it
finds nothing for itself it must wait, still unsatisfied. After a little
while it becomes feeble, and at the end of a few days or a few months, if
it has not been satisfied, it will wither away like a plant which has not
been watered. This cruelty of chance would perhaps be more conspicuous if
all the cravings were as vehement in their demands as hunger, which
refuses to be satisfied with imaginary dishes; but the great majority of
our instincts, especially those which are called moral, are thus easily
satisfied,—if it be permitted to suppose that our dreams serve as
compensation to a certain extent for the accidental absence of “nutriment”
during the day. Why was last night’s dream full of tenderness and tears,
that of the night before amusing and gay, and the previous one adventurous
and engaged in some continual obscure search? How does it come about that
in this dream I enjoy indescribable beauties of music, and in that one I
soar and fly upwards with the delight of an eagle to the most distant
heights?

These inventions in which our instincts of tenderness, merriment, or
adventurousness, or our desire for music and mountains, can have free play
and scope—and every one can recall striking instances—are interpretations
of our nervous irritations during sleep, very free and arbitrary
interpretations of the movements of our blood and intestines, and the
pressure of our arm and the bed coverings, or the sound of a church bell,
the weathercocks, the moths, and so on. That this text, which on the whole
is very much the same for one night as another, is so differently
commented upon, that our creative reason imagines such different causes
for the nervous irritations of one day as compared with another, may be
explained by the fact that the prompter of this reason was different
to-day from yesterday—another instinct or craving wished to be satisfied,
to show itself, to exercise itself and be refreshed and discharged: this
particular one being at its height to-day and another one being at its
height last night. Real life has not the freedom of interpretation
possessed by dream life; it is less poetic and less unrestrained—but is it
necessary for me to show that our instincts, when we are awake, likewise
merely interpret our nervous irritations and determine their “causes” in
accordance with their requirements? that there is no really essential
difference between waking and dreaming! that even in comparing different
degrees of culture, the freedom of the conscious interpretation of the one
is not in any way inferior to the freedom in dreams of the other! that our
moral judgments and valuations are only images and fantasies concerning
physiological processes unknown to us, a kind of habitual language to
describe certain nervous irritations? that all our so-called consciousness
is a more or less fantastic commentary of an unknown text, one which is
perhaps unknowable but yet felt?

Consider some insignificant occurrence. Let us suppose that some day as we
pass along a public street we see some one laughing at us. In accordance
with whatever craving has reached its culminating point within us at that
moment, this incident will have this or that signification for us; and it
will be a very different occurrence in accordance with the class of men to
which we belong. One man will take it like a drop of rain, another will
shake it off like a fly, a third person will try to pick a quarrel on
account of it, a fourth will examine his garments to see if there is
anything about them likely to cause laughter, and a fifth will in
consequence think about what is ridiculous _per se_, a sixth will be
pleased at having involuntarily contributed to add a ray of sunshine and
mirth to the world,—in all these cases some craving is gratified, whether
anger, combativeness, meditation, or benevolence. This instinct, whatever
it may be, has seized upon that incident as its prey: why that particular
one? Because, hungry and thirsty, it was lying in ambush.

Not long ago at 11 o’clock in the morning a man suddenly collapsed and
fell down in front of me as if struck by lightning. All the women who were
near at once gave utterance to cries of horror, while I set the man on his
feet again and waited until he recovered his speech. During this time no
muscle of my face moved and I experienced no sensation of fear or pity; I
simply did what was most urgent and reasonable and calmly proceeded on my
way. Supposing some one had told me on the previous evening that at 11
o’clock on the following day a man would fall down in front of me like
this, I should have suffered all kinds of agonies in the interval, lying
awake all night, and at the decisive moment should also perhaps have
fallen down like the man instead of helping him; for in the meantime all
the imaginable cravings within me would have had leisure to conceive and
to comment upon this incident. What are our experiences, then? Much more
what we attribute to them than what they really are. Or should we perhaps
say that nothing is contained in them? that experiences in themselves are
merely works of fancy?




120.


TO TRANQUILLISE THE SCEPTIC.—“I don’t know at all what I am doing. I don’t
know in the least what I ought to do!”—You are right, but be sure of this:
you are being done at every moment! Mankind has at all times mistaken the
active for the passive: it is its eternal grammatical blunder.




121.


CAUSE AND EFFECT.—On this mirror—and our intellect is a mirror—something
is going on that indicates regularity: a certain thing is each time
followed by another certain thing. When we perceive this and wish to give
it a name, we call it cause and effect,—fools that we are! as if in this
we had understood or could understand anything! For, of course, we have
seen nothing but the images of causes and effects, and it is just this
figurativeness which renders it impossible for us to see a more
substantial relation than that of sequence!




122.


THE PURPOSES IN NATURE.—Any impartial investigator who examines the
history of the eye and its form in the lower creatures, and sees how the
visual organ was slowly developed, cannot help recognising that sight was
not the first purpose of the eye, but probably only asserted itself when
pure hazard had contributed to bring together the apparatus. One single
example of this kind, and the “final purposes” fall from our eyes like
scales.




123.


REASON.—How did reason come into the world? As is only proper, in an
irrational manner; by accident. We shall have to guess at this accident as
a riddle.




124.


WHAT IS VOLITION?—We laugh at a man who, stepping out of his room at the
very minute when the sun is rising, says, “It is my _will_ that the sun
shall rise”; or at him who, unable to stop a wheel, says, “I _wish_ it to
roll”; or, again, at him who, thrown in a wrestling match, says, “Here I
lie, but here I _wish_ to lie.” But, joking apart, do we not act like one
of these three persons whenever we use the expression “I wish”?




125.


ON THE DOMAIN OF FREEDOM.—We can _think_ many more things than we can do
and experience—_i.e._ our faculty of thinking is superficial and is
satisfied with what lies on the surface, it does not even perceive this
surface. If our intellect were strictly developed in proportion to our
power, and our exercise of this power, the primary principle of our
thinking would be that we can understand only that which we are able to
do—if, indeed, there is any understanding at all. The thirsty man is
without water, but the creations of his imagination continually bring the
image of water to his sight, as if nothing could be more easily procured.
The superficial and easily satisfied character of the intellect cannot
understand real need, and thus feels itself superior. It is proud of being
able to do more, to run faster, and to reach the goal almost within the
twinkling of an eye: and in this way the domain of thought, when
contrasted with the domain of action, volition, and experience, appears to
be the domain of liberty, while, as I have already stated, it is nothing
but the domain of superficiality and self-sufficiency.




126.


FORGETFULNESS.—It has never yet been proved that there is such a thing as
forgetfulness: all that we know is that we have no power over
recollection. In the meantime we have filled up this gap in our power with
the word “forgetfulness,” exactly as if it were another faculty added to
our list. But, after all, what is within our power? If that word fills up
a gap in our power, might not the other words be found capable of filling
up a gap in the knowledge which we possess of our power?




127.


FOR A DEFINITE PURPOSE.—Of all human actions probably the least understood
are those which are carried out for a definite purpose, because they have
always been regarded as the most intelligible and commonplace to our
intellect. The great problems can be picked up in the highways and byways.




128.


DREAMING AND RESPONSIBILITY.—You would wish to be responsible for
everything except your dreams! What miserable weakness, what lack of
logical courage! Nothing contains more of your own work than your dreams!
Nothing belongs to you so much! Substance, form, duration, actor,
spectator—in these comedies you act as your complete selves! And yet it is
just here that you are afraid and ashamed of yourselves, and even Oedipus,
the wise Oedipus, derived consolation from the thought that we cannot be
blamed for what we dream. From this I must conclude that the great
majority of men must have some dreadful dreams to reproach themselves
with. If it were otherwise, to how great an extent would these nocturnal
fictions have been exploited in the interests of man’s pride! Need I add
that the wise Oedipus was right, that we are really not responsible for
our dreams any more than for our waking hours, and that the doctrine of
free will has as its parents man’s pride and sense of power! Perhaps I say
this too often; but that does not prove that it is not true.




129.


THE ALLEGED COMBAT OF MOTIVES.—People speak of the “combat of motives,”
but they designate by this expression that which is not a combat of
motives at all. What I mean is that, in our meditative consciousness, the
consequences of different actions which we think we are able to carry out
present themselves successively, one after the other, and we compare these
consequences in our mind. We think we have come to a decision concerning
an action after we have established to our own satisfaction that the
consequences of this action will be favourable. Before we arrive at this
conclusion, however, we often seriously worry because of the great
difficulties we experience in guessing what the consequences are likely to
be, and in seeing them in their full importance, without exception—and,
after all this, we must reckon up any fortuitous elements that are likely
to arise. Then comes the chief difficulty: all the consequences which we
have with such difficulty determined one by one must be weighed on some
scales against each other; and it only too often comes about that, owing
to the difference in the quality of all the conceivable consequences, both
scales and weights are lacking for this casuistry of advantage.

Even supposing, however, that in this case we are able to overcome the
difficulty, and that mere hazard has placed in our scales results which
permit of a mutual balance, we have now, in the idea of the consequences
of a particular action, a motive for performing this very action, but only
one motive! When we have finally decided to act, however, we are fairly
often influenced by another order of motives than those of the “image of
the consequences.” What brings this about may be the habitual working of
our inner machinery, or some little encouragement on the part of a person
whom we fear or honour or love, or the love of comfort which prefers to do
that which lies nearest; or some stirring of the imagination provoked at
the decisive moment by some event of trifling importance; or some physical
influence which manifests itself quite unexpectedly; a mere whim brings it
about; or the outburst of a passion which, as it accidentally happens, is
ready to burst forth—in a word, motives operate which we do not understand
very well, or which we do not understand at all, and which we can never
balance against one another in advance.

It is probable that a contest is going on among these motives too, a
driving backwards and forwards, a rising and lowering of the parts, and it
is this which would be the real “contest of motives,” something quite
invisible and unknown to us. I have calculated the consequences and the
successes, and in doing so have set a very necessary motive in the line of
combat with the other motives,—but I am as little able to draw up this
battle line as to see it: the battle itself is hidden from my sight, as
likewise is the victory, as victory; for I certainly come to know what I
shall finally do, but I cannot know what motive has in the end proved to
be the victor. Nevertheless, we are decidedly not in the habit of taking
all these unconscious phenomena into account, and we generally conceive of
the preliminary stages of an action only so far as they are conscious:
thus we mistake the combat of the motives for a comparison of the possible
consequences of different actions,—a mistake that brings with it most
important consequences, and consequences that are most fatal to the
development of morals.




130.


AIMS? WILL?—We have accustomed ourselves to believe in two kingdoms, the
domain of purposes and volition, and the domain of chance. In this latter
domain everything is done senselessly, there is a continual going to and
fro without any one being able to say why or wherefore. We stand in awe of
this powerful realm of the great cosmic stupidity, for in most instances
we learn to know it when it falls down upon the other world, that of aims
and intentions, like a slate from a roof, always overwhelming some
beautiful purpose of ours.

This belief in these two kingdoms arises from ancient romanticism and
legend: we clever dwarfs, with all our will and aims, are interfered with,
knocked down, and very often crushed to death by those ultra-stupid
giants, the accidents,—but in spite of this we should not like to be
deprived of the fearful poetry of their proximity, for these monsters very
often make their appearance when life in the spider’s web of definite aims
has become too tiresome or too anxious for us, and they sometimes bring
about a divine diversion when their hands for once tear the whole web in
pieces,—not that these irrational beings ever intend to do what they do,
or even observe it. But their coarse and bony hands rend our web as if it
were thin air.

Moira was the name given by the Greeks to this realm of the incalculable
and of sublime and eternal limitedness; and they set it round their gods
like a horizon beyond which they could neither see nor act,—with that
secret defiance of the gods which one meets with in different nations; the
gods are worshipped, but a final trump card is held in readiness to play
against them. As instances of this we may recollect that the Indians and
the Persians, who conceived all their gods as having to depend upon the
sacrifices of mortals, so that if it came to the worst the mortals could,
at least, let the gods die of starvation; or the gods of the stubborn and
melancholy Scandinavians, who enjoyed a quiet revenge in the thought that
a twilight of the gods was to come as some compensation for the perpetual
fear which their evil gods caused them. The case of Christianity was very
different, for its essential feelings were not those of the Indians,
Persians, Greeks, or Scandinavians. Christianity commanded its disciples
to worship in the dust the spirit of power, and to kiss the very dust. It
gave the world to understand that this omnipotent “realm of stupidity” was
not so stupid as it seemed, and that we, on the contrary, were stupid when
we could not perceive that behind this realm stood God Himself: He who,
although fond of dark, crooked and wonderful ways, at last brought
everything to a “glorious end.” This new myth of God, who had hitherto
been mistaken for a race of giants or Moira, and who was now Himself the
spinner and weaver of webs and purposes even more subtle than those of our
own intellect—so subtle, indeed, that they appear to be incomprehensible
and even unreasonable—this myth was so bold a transformation and so daring
a paradox that the over-refined ancient world could not resist it, however
extravagant and contradictory the thing seemed: for, let it be said in
confidence, there was a contradiction in it,—if our intellect cannot
divine the intellect and aims of God, how did it divine this quality of
its intellect and this quality of God’s intellect?

In more modern times, indeed, the doubt has increased as to whether the
slate that falls from the roof is really thrown by “Divine love,” and
mankind again harks back to the old romance of giants and dwarfs. Let us
learn then, for it is time we did so, that even in our supposed separate
domain of aims and reason the giants likewise rule. And our aims and
reason are not dwarfs, but giants. And our own webs are just as often and
as clumsily rent by ourselves as by the slate. And not everything is
purpose that is called purpose, and still less is everything will that is
called will. And if you come to the conclusion, “Then there is only one
domain, that of stupidity and hazard?” it must be added that possibly
there is only one domain, possibly there is neither will nor aim, and we
may only have imagined these things. Those iron hands of necessity that
shake the dice-box of chance continue their game indefinitely: hence, it
must happen that certain throws perfectly resemble every degree of
appropriateness and good sense. It may be that our own voluntary acts and
purposes are merely such throws, and that we are too circumscribed and
vain to conceive our extremely circumscribed state! that we ourselves
shake the dice-box with iron hands, and do nothing in our most deliberate
actions but play the game of necessity. Possibly! To rise beyond this
“possibly” we should indeed have been guests in the Underworld, playing at
dice and betting with Proserpine at the table of the goddess herself.




131.


MORAL FASHIONS.—How moral judgments as a whole have changed! The greatest
marvels of the morality of antiquity, such as Epictetus, knew nothing of
the glorification, now so common, of the spirit of sacrifice, of living
for others: after the fashion of morality now prevailing we should really
call them immoral; for they fought with all their strength for their own
ego and against all sympathy for others, especially for the sufferings and
moral imperfections of others. Perhaps they would reply to us by saying,
“If you feel yourselves to be such dull and ugly people, by all means
think of others more than yourselves. You will be quite right in doing
so!”




132.


THE LAST ECHOES OF CHRISTIANITY IN MORALS.—“On n’est bon que par la pitié:
il faut donc qu’il y ait quelque pitié dans tous nos sentiments”—so says
morality nowadays. And how does this come about? The fact that the man who
performs social, sympathetic, disinterested, and benevolent actions is now
considered as the moral man: this is perhaps the most general effect, the
most complete transformation, that Christianity has produced in Europe;
perhaps in spite of itself, and not by any means because this was part of
its essential doctrine. But this was the residuum of those Christian
feelings that prevailed at the time when the contrary and thoroughly
selfish faith in the “one thing needful,” the absolute importance of
eternal and personal salvation, together with the dogmas upon which this
belief had rested, were gradually receding, and when the auxiliary beliefs
in “love” and “love of one’s neighbour,” harmonising with the
extraordinary practice of charity by the Church, were thereby coming to
the front. The more people gradually became separated from the dogmas, the
more did they seek some sort of justification for this separation in a
cult of the love of humanity: not to fall short in this respect of the
Christian ideal, but to excel it if possible, was the secret stimulus of
all the French free-thinkers from Voltaire to Auguste Comte; and this
latter with his famous moral formula “vivre pour autrui” has indeed
out-christianised even Christianity!

It was Schopenhauer in Germany and John Stuart Mill in England who were
the means of bringing into the greatest prominence this doctrine of
sympathetic affections and of pity or utility to others as a principle of
action; but these men themselves were only echoes. From about the time of
the French Revolution these doctrines have manifested themselves in
various places with enormous force. Since then they have shown themselves
in their coarsest as well has their most subtle form, and all Socialistic
principles have almost involuntarily taken their stand on the common
ground of this doctrine. At the present time there is perhaps no more
widely spread prejudice than that of thinking that we know what really and
truly constitutes morality. Every one now seems to learn with satisfaction
that society is beginning to adapt the individual to the general needs,
and that it is at the same time the happiness and sacrifice of each one to
consider himself as a useful member and instrument of the whole. They have
still, however, doubts as to the form in which this whole is to be looked
for, whether in a state already existing, or in one which has yet to be
established, or in a nation, or in an international brotherhood, or in new
and small economic communities. On this point there is still much
reflection, doubt, struggling, excitement, and passion; but it is pleasant
and wonderful to observe the unanimity with which the “ego” is called upon
to practice self-denial, until, in the form of adaptation to the whole, it
once again secures its own fixed sphere of rights and duties,—until,
indeed, it has become something quite new and different. Nothing else is
being attempted, whether admitted or not, than the complete
transformation, even the weakening and suppression of the individual: the
supporters of the majority never tire of enumerating and anathematising
all that is bad, hostile, lavish, expensive, and luxurious in the form of
individual existence that has hitherto prevailed; they hope that society
may be administered in a cheaper, less dangerous, more uniform, and more
harmonious way when nothing is left but large corporations and their
members. All that is considered as good which in any way corresponds to
this desire for grouping men into one particular society, and to the minor
cravings which necessarily accompany this desire,—this is the chief moral
current of our time; sympathy and social feelings are working hand in
glove. (Kant is still outside of this movement: he expressly teaches that
we should be insensible to the sufferings of others if our benevolence is
to have any moral value,—a doctrine which Schopenhauer, very angrily, as
may easily be imagined, described as the Kantian absurdity.)




133.


“NO LONGER THINKING OF ONE’S SELF.”—Let us seriously consider why we
should jump into the water to rescue some one who has just fallen in
before our eyes, although we may have no particular sympathy for him. We
do it for pity’s sake; no one thinks now but of his neighbour,—so says
thoughtlessness. Why do we experience grief and uneasiness when we see
some one spit blood, although we may be really ill-disposed towards him
and wish him no good? Out of pity; we have ceased to think of
ourselves,—so says thoughtlessness again. The truth is that in our pity—I
mean by this what we erroneously call “pity”—we no longer think
consciously of ourselves, but quite unconsciously, exactly as when
slipping we unconsciously make the best counter-motions possible in order
to recover our balance, and in doing so clearly use all our intelligence.
A mishap to another offends us; it would bring our impotence, or perhaps
our cowardice, into strong relief if we could do nothing to help him; or
in itself it would give rise to a diminution of our honour in the eyes of
others and of ourselves. Or again, accidents that happen to others act as
finger-posts to point out our own danger, and even as indications of human
peril and frailty they can produce a painful effect upon us. We shake off
this kind of pain and offence, and balance it by an act of pity behind
which may be hidden a subtle form of self-defence or even revenge. That at
bottom we strongly think of ourselves may easily be divined from the
decision that we arrive at in all cases where we can avoid the sight of
those who are suffering or starving or wailing. We make up our minds not
to avoid such people when we can approach them as powerful and helpful
ones, when we can safely reckon upon their applause, or wish to feel the
contrast of our own happiness, or, again, when we hope to get rid of our
own boredom. It is misleading to call the suffering that we experience at
such a sight, and which may be of a very different kind, commiseration.
For in all cases it is a suffering from which the suffering person before
us is free: it is our own suffering, just as his suffering is his own. It
is thus only this personal feeling of misery that we get rid of by acts of
compassion. Nevertheless, we never act thus from one single motive: as it
is certain that we wish to free ourselves from suffering thereby, it is
also certain that by the same action we yield to an impulse of pleasure.
Pleasure arises at the sight of a contrast to our own condition, at the
knowledge that we should be able to help if only we wished to do so, at
the thought of the praise and gratitude which we should gain if we did
help, at the very act of helping, in so far as this might prove successful
(and because something which is gradually seen to be successful gives
pleasure to the doer); but even more particularly at the feeling that our
intervention brings to an end some deplorable injustice,—even the outburst
of one’s indignation is invigorating.

All this, including even things still more subtle, comprises “pity.” How
clumsily with this one word does language fall foul of such a complex and
polyphonous organism! That pity, on the other hand, is identical with the
suffering the sight of which brings it about, or that it has a
particularly subtle and penetrating comprehension of it: this is in
contradiction to experience, and he who has glorified pity under these two
heads lacked sufficient experience in the domain of morals. That is why I
am seized with some doubts when reading of the incredible things
attributed by Schopenhauer to pity. It is obvious that he thereby wished
to make us believe in the great novelty he brought forward, viz., that
pity—the pity which he observed so superficially and described so
badly—was the source of all and every past and future moral action,—and
all this precisely because of those faculties which he had begun by
attributing to it.

What is it in the end that distinguishes men without pity from men who are
really compassionate? In particular, to give merely an approximate
indication, they have not the sensitive feeling for fear, the subtle
faculty for perceiving danger: nor yet is their vanity so easily wounded
if something happens which they might have been able to prevent,—the
caution of their pride commands them not to interfere uselessly with the
affairs of others; they even act on the belief that every one should help
himself and play his own cards. Again, in most cases they are more
habituated to bearing pain than compassionate men, and it does not seem at
all unjust to them that others should suffer, since they themselves have
suffered. Lastly, the state of soft-heartedness is as painful to them as
is the state of stoical impassability to compassionate men: they have only
disdainful words for sensitive hearts, as they think that such a state of
feeling is dangerous to their own manliness and calm bravery,—they conceal
their tears from others and wipe them off, angry with themselves. They
belong to a different type of egoists from the compassionate men,—but to
call them, in a distinct sense, evil and the compassionate ones good, is
merely a moral fashion which has had its innings, just as the reverse
fashion had also its innings, and a long innings, too.




134.


TO WHAT EXTENT WE MUST BEWARE OF PITY.—Pity, in so far as it actually
gives rise to suffering—and this must be our only point of view here—is a
weakness, like every other indulgence in an injurious emotion. It
increases suffering throughout the world, and although here and there a
certain amount of suffering may be indirectly diminished or removed
altogether as a consequence of pity, we must not bring forward these
occasional consequences, which are on the whole insignificant, to justify
the nature of pity which, as has already been stated, is prejudicial.
Supposing that it prevailed, even if only for one day, it would bring
humanity to utter ruin. In itself the nature of pity is no better than
that of any other craving; it is only where it is called for and
praised—and this happens when people do not understand what is injurious
in it, but find in it a sort of joy—that a good conscience becomes
attached to it; it is only then that we willingly yield to it, and do not
shrink from acknowledging it. In other circumstances where it is
understood to be dangerous, it is looked upon as a weakness; or, as in the
case of the Greeks, as an unhealthy periodical emotion the danger of which
might be removed by temporary and voluntary discharges. If a man were to
undertake the experiment of deliberately devoting his attention to the
opportunities afforded by practical life for the exercise of pity, and
were over and over again to picture in his own mind the misery he might
meet with in his immediate surroundings, he would inevitably become
melancholy and ill. If, however, he wished in any sense of the word to
serve humanity as a physician, he would have to take many precautions with
respect to this feeling, as otherwise it would paralyse him at all
critical moments, undermine the foundations of his knowledge, and unnerve
his helpful and delicate hand.




135.


AROUSING PITY.—Among savages men think with a moral shudder of the
possibility of becoming an object of pity, for such a state they regard as
deprived of all virtue. Pitying is equivalent to despising: they do not
want to see a contemptible being suffer, for this would afford them no
enjoyment. On the other hand, to behold one of their enemies suffering,
some one whom they look upon as their equal in pride, but whom torture
cannot induce to give up his pride, and in general to see some one suffer
who refuses to lower himself by appealing for pity—which would in their
eyes be the most profound and shameful humiliation—this is the very joy of
joys. Such a spectacle excites the deepest admiration in the soul of the
savage, and he ends by killing such a brave man when it is in his power,
afterwards according funeral honours to the unbending one. If he had
groaned, however; if his countenance had lost its expression of calm
disdain; if he had shown himself to be contemptible,—well, in such a case
he might have been allowed to live like a dog: he would no longer have
aroused the pride of the spectator, and pity would have taken the place of
admiration.




136.


HAPPINESS IN PITY.—If, as is the case among the Hindus, we decree the end
and aim of all intellectual activity to be the knowledge of human misery,
and if for generation after generation this dreadful resolution be
steadily adhered to, pity in the eyes of such men of hereditary pessimism
comes to have a new value as a preserver of life, something that helps to
make existence endurable, although it may seem worthy of being rejected
with horror and disgust. Pity becomes an antidote to suicide, a sentiment
which brings pleasure with it and enables us to taste superiority in small
doses. It gives some diversion to our minds, makes our hearts full,
banishes fear and lethargy, and incites us to speak, to complain, or to
act: it is a relative happiness when compared with the misery of the
knowledge that hampers the individual on every side, bewilders him, and
takes away his breath. Happiness, however, no matter of what nature it may
be, gives us air and light and freedom of movement.




137.


WHY DOUBLE THE “EGO”?—To view our own experiences in the same light as we
are in the habit of looking at those of others is very comforting and an
advisable medicine. On the other hand, to look upon the experiences of
others and adopt them as if they were our own—which is called for by the
philosophy of pity—would ruin us in a very short time: let us only make
the experiment without trying to imagine it any longer! The first maxim
is, in addition, undoubtedly more in accordance with reason and goodwill
towards reason; for we estimate more objectively the value and
significance of an event when it happens to others,—the value, for
instance, of a death, loss of money or slander. But pity, taking as its
principle of action the injunction, “Suffer the misfortune of another as
much as he himself,” would lead the point of view of the ego with all its
exaggerations and deviations to become the point of view of the other
person, the sympathiser: so that we should have to suffer at the same time
from our own ego and the other’s ego. In this way we would voluntarily
overload ourselves with a double irrationality, instead of making the
burden of our own as light as possible.




138.


BECOMING MORE TENDER.—Whenever we love some one and venerate and admire
him, and afterwards come to perceive that he is suffering—which always
causes us the utmost astonishment, since we cannot but feel that the
happiness we derive from him must flow from a superabundant source of
personal happiness—our feelings of love, veneration, and admiration are
essentially changed: they become more tender; that is, the gap that
separates us seems to be bridged over and there appears to be an approach
to equality. It now seems possible to give him something in return, whilst
we had previously imagined him as being altogether above our gratitude.
Our ability to requite him for what we have received from him arouses in
us feelings of much joy and pleasure. We endeavour to ascertain what can
best calm the grief of our friend, and we give it to him; if he wishes for
kind words, looks, attentions, services, or presents, we give them; but,
above all, if he would like to see us suffering from the sight of his
suffering, we pretend to suffer, for all this secures for us the enjoyment
of active gratitude, which is equivalent in a way to good-natured revenge.
If he wants none of these things, and refuses to accept them from us, we
depart from him chilled and sad, almost mortified; it appears to us as if
our gratitude had been declined, and on this point of honour even the best
of men is still somewhat touchy. It results from all this that even in the
best case there is something humiliating in suffering, and something
elevating and superior in sympathy,—a fact which will keep the two
feelings apart for ever and ever.




139.


HIGHER IN NAME ONLY.—You say that the morality of pity is a higher
morality than that of stoicism? Prove it! But take care not to measure the
“higher” and “lower” degrees of morality once more by moral yardsticks;
for there are no absolute morals. So take your yardstick from somewhere
else, and be on your guard!




140.


PRAISE AND BLAME.—When a war has come to an unsuccessful conclusion we try
to find the man who is to blame for the war; when it comes to a successful
conclusion we praise the man who is responsible for it. In all
unsuccessful cases attempts are made to blame somebody, for non-success
gives rise to dejection, against which the single possible remedy is
involuntarily applied; a new incitement of the sense of power; and this
incitement is found in the condemnation of the “guilty” one. This guilty
one is not perhaps the scapegoat of the faults of others; he is merely the
victim of the feeble, humiliated, and depressed people who wish to prove
upon some one that they have not yet lost all their power. Even
self-condemnation after a defeat may be the means of restoring the feeling
of power.

On the other hand, glorification of the originator is often but an equally
blind result of another instinct that demands its victim,—and in this case
the sacrifice appears to be sweet and attractive even for the victim. This
happens when the feeling of power is satiated in a nation or a society by
so great and fascinating a success that a weariness of victory supervenes
and pride wishes to be discharged: a feeling of self-sacrifice is aroused
and looks for its object. Thus, whether we are blamed or praised we
merely, as a rule, provide opportunities for the gratification of others,
and are only too often caught up and whirled away for our neighbours to
discharge upon us their accumulated feelings of praise or blame. In both
cases we confer a benefit upon them for which we deserve no credit and
they no thanks.




141.


MORE BEAUTIFUL BUT LESS VALUABLE.—Picturesque morality: such is the
morality of those passions characterised by sudden outbursts, abrupt
transitions; pathetic, impressive, dreadful, and solemn attitudes and
gestures. It is the semi-savage stage of morality: never let us be tempted
to set it on a higher plane merely on account of its æsthetic charms.




142.


SYMPATHY.—In order to understand our neighbour, that is, in order to
reproduce his sentiments in ourselves, we often, no doubt, plumb the cause
of his feelings, as, for example, by asking ourselves, Why is he sad? in
order that we may become sad ourselves for the same reason. But we much
more frequently neglect to act thus, and we produce these feelings in
ourselves in accordance with the _effects_ which they exhibit in the
person we are studying,—by imitating in our own body the expression of his
eyes, his voice, his gait, his attitude (or, at any rate, the likeness of
these things in words, pictures, and music), or we may at least endeavour
to mimic the action of his muscles and nervous system. A like feeling will
then spring up in us as the result of an old association of movements and
sentiments which has been trained to run backwards and forwards. We have
developed to a very high pitch this knack of sounding the feelings of
others, and when we are in the presence of any one else we bring this
faculty of ours into play almost involuntarily,—let the inquirer observe
the animation of a woman’s countenance and notice how it vibrates and
quivers with animation as the result of the continual imitation and
reflection of what is going on around her.

It is music, however, more than anything else that shows us what
past-masters we are in the rapid and subtle divination of feelings and
sympathy; for even if music is only the imitation of an imitation of
feelings, nevertheless, despite its distance and vagueness, it often
enables us to participate in those feelings, so that we become sad without
any reason for feeling so, like the fools that we are, merely because we
hear certain sounds and rhythms that somehow or other remind us of the
intonation and the movements, or perhaps even only of the behaviour, of
sorrowful people. It is related of a certain Danish king that he was
wrought up to such a pitch of warlike enthusiasm by the song of a minstrel
that he sprang to his feet and killed five persons of his assembled court:
there was neither war nor enemy; there was rather the exact opposite; yet
the power of the retrospective inference from a feeling to the cause of it
was sufficiently strong in this king to overpower both his observation and
his reason. Such, however, is almost invariably the effect of music
(provided that it thrills us), and we have no need of such paradoxical
instances to recognise this,—the state of feeling into which music
transports us is almost always in contradiction to the appearance of our
actual state, and of our reasoning power which recognises this actual
state and its causes.

If we inquire how it happened that this imitation of the feelings of
others has become so common, there will be no doubt as to the answer: man
being the most timid of all beings because of his subtle and delicate
nature has been made familiar through his timidity with this sympathy for,
and rapid comprehension of, the feelings of others, even of animals. For
century after century he saw danger in everything that was unfamiliar to
him, in anything that happened to be alive, and whenever the spectacle of
such things and creatures came before his eyes he imitated their features
and attitude, drawing at the same time his own conclusion as to the nature
of the evil intentions they concealed. This interpretation of all
movements and all facial characteristics in the sense of intentions, man
has even brought to bear on things inanimate,—urged on as he was by the
illusion that there was nothing inanimate. I believe that this is the
origin of everything that we now call a feeling for nature, that sensation
of joy which men experience at the sight of the sky, the fields, the
rocks, the forests, the storms, the stars, the landscapes, and spring:
without our old habits of fear which forced us to suspect behind
everything a kind of second and more recondite sense, we should now
experience no delight in nature, in the same way as men and animals do not
cause us to rejoice if we have not first been deterred by that source of
all understanding, namely, fear. For joy and agreeable surprise, and
finally the feeling of ridicule, are the younger children of sympathy, and
the much younger brothers and sisters of fear. The faculty of rapid
perception, which is based on the faculty of rapid dissimulation,
decreases in proud and autocratic men and nations, as they are less timid;
but, on the other hand, every category of understanding and dissimulation
is well known to timid peoples, and among them is to be found the real
home of imitative arts and superior intelligence.

When, proceeding from the theory of sympathy such as I have just outlined,
I turn my attention to the theory, now so popular and almost sacrosanct,
of a mystical process by means of which pity blends two beings into one,
and thus permits them immediately to understand one another, when I
recollect that even so clear a brain as Schopenhauer’s delighted in such
fantastic nonsense, and that he in his turn transplanted this delight into
other lucid and semi-lucid brains, I feel unlimited astonishment and
compassion. How great must be the pleasure we experience in this senseless
tomfoolery! How near must even a sane man be to insanity as soon as he
listens to his own secret intellectual desires!—Why did Schopenhauer
really feel so grateful, so profoundly indebted to Kant? He revealed on
one occasion the undoubted answer to this question. Some one had spoken of
the way in which the _qualitias occulta_ of Kant’s Categorical Imperative
might be got rid of, so that the theory itself might be rendered
intelligible. Whereupon Schopenhauer gave utterance to the following
outburst: “An intelligible Categorical Imperative! Preposterous idea!
Stygian darkness! God forbid that it should ever become intelligible! The
fact that there is actually something unintelligible, that this misery of
the understanding and its conceptions is limited, conditional, final, and
deceptive,—this is beyond question Kant’s great gift.” Let any one
consider whether a man can be in possession of a desire to gain an insight
into moral things when he feels himself comforted from the start by a
belief in the inconceivableness of these things! one who still honestly
believes in illuminations from above, in magic, in ghostly appearances,
and in the metaphysical ugliness of the toad!




143.


WOE TO US IF THIS IMPULSE SHOULD RAGE!—Supposing that the impulse towards
devotion and care for others (“sympathetic affection”) were doubly as
strong as it now is, life on earth could not be endured. Let it only be
considered how many foolish things every one of us does day by day and
hour by hour, merely out of solicitude and devotion for himself, and how
unbearable he seems in doing so: and what then would it be like if we were
to become for other people the object of the stupidities and importunities
with which up to the present they have only tormented themselves! Should
we not then take precipitately to our heels as soon as one of our
neighbours came towards us? And would it not be necessary to overwhelm
this sympathetic affection with the abuse that we now reserve for egoism?




144.


CLOSING OUR EARS TO THE COMPLAINTS OF OTHERS.—When we let our sky be
clouded by the complaints and suffering of other mortals, who must bear
the consequences of such gloom? No doubt those other mortals, in addition
to all their other burdens! If we are merely to be the echoes of their
complaints, we cannot accord them either help or comfort; nor can we do so
if we were continually keeping our ears open to listen to them,—unless we
have learnt the art of the Olympians, who, instead of trying to make
themselves unhappy, endeavoured to feel edified by the misfortunes of
mankind. But this is something too Olympian for us, although, in our
enjoyment of tragedy, we have already taken a step towards this ideal
divine cannibalism.




145.


“UNEGOISTIC.”—This man is empty and wishes to be filled, that one is
over-full and wishes to be emptied: both of them feel themselves urged on
to look for an individual who can help them. And this phenomenon,
interpreted in a higher sense, is in both cases known by the same name,
“love.” Well? and could this love be something unegoistic?




146.


LOOKING BEYOND OUR NEIGHBOUR.—What? Ought the nature of true morality to
consist for us in fixing our eyes upon the most direct and immediate
consequences of our action for other people, and in our coming to a
decision accordingly? This is only a narrow and bourgeois morality, even
though it may be a morality: but it seems to me that it would be more
superior and liberal to look beyond these immediate consequences for our
neighbour in order to encourage more distant purposes, even at the risk of
making others suffer,—as, for example, by encouraging the spirit of
knowledge in spite of the certainty that our free-thought will have the
instant effect of plunging others into doubt, grief, and even worse
afflictions. Have we not at least the right to treat our neighbour as we
treat ourselves? And if, where we are concerned, we do not think in such a
narrow and bourgeois fashion of immediate consequences and sufferings, why
should we be compelled to act thus in regard to our neighbour? Supposing
that we felt ready to sacrifice ourselves, what is there to prevent us
from sacrificing our neighbour together with ourselves,—just as States and
Sovereigns have hitherto sacrificed one citizen to the others, “for the
sake of the general interest,” as they say?

We too, however, have general interests, perhaps even more general than
theirs: so why may we not sacrifice a few individuals of this generation
for the benefit of generations to come? so that their affliction, anxiety,
despair, blunders, and misery may be deemed essential because a new plough
is to break up the ground and render it fertile for all. Finally, we
communicate the disposition to our neighbour by which he is enabled to
feel himself a victim: we persuade him to carry out the task for which we
employ him. Are we then devoid of all pity? If, however, we wish to
achieve a victory over ourselves beyond our pity, is not this a higher and
more liberal attitude and disposition than that in which we only feel safe
after having ascertained whether an action benefits or harms our
neighbour? On the contrary, it is by means of such sacrifice—including the
sacrifice of ourselves, as well as of our neighbours—that we should
strengthen and elevate the general sense of human power, even supposing
that we attain nothing more than this. But even this itself would be a
positive increase of happiness. Then, if even this ... but not a word
more! You have understood me at a glance.




147.


THE CAUSE OF “ALTRUISM.”—Men have on the whole spoken of love with so much
emphasis and adoration because they have hitherto always had so little of
it, and have never yet been satiated with this food: in this way it became
their ambrosia. If a poet wished to show universal benevolence in the
image of a Utopia, he would certainly have to describe an agonising and
ridiculous state of things, the like of which was never seen on
earth,—every one would be surrounded, importuned, and sighed for, not as
at present, by one lover, but by thousands, by everybody indeed, as the
result of an irresistible craving which would then be as vehemently
insulted and cursed as selfishness has been by men of past ages. The poets
of this new condition of things, if they had sufficient leisure to write,
would be dreaming of nothing but the blissful and loveless past, the
divine selfishness of yore, and the wonderful possibilities in former
times of remaining alone, not being run after by one’s friends, and of
even being hated and despised—or any other odious expressions which the
beautiful animal world in which we live chooses to coin.




148.


LOOKING FAR AHEAD.—If, in accordance with the present definition, only
those actions are moral which are done for the sake of others, and for
their sake only, then there are no moral actions at all! If, in accordance
with another definition, only those actions are moral which spring from
our own free will, then there are no moral actions in this case either!
What is it, then, that we designate thus, which certainly exists and
wishes as a consequence to be explained? It is the result of a few
intellectual blunders; and supposing that we were able to free ourselves
from these errors, what would then become of “moral actions”? It is due to
these errors that we have up to the present attributed to certain actions
a value superior to what was theirs in reality: we separated them from
“egoistic” and “non-free” actions. When we now set them once more in the
latter categories, as we must do, we certainly reduce their value (their
own estimate of value) even below its reasonable level, because “egoistic”
and “non-free” actions have up to the present been under-valued owing to
that alleged profound and essential difference.

In future, then, will these very actions be less frequently performed,
since they will be less highly esteemed? Inevitably! Or at all events for
a fairly long time, as long as the scale of valuations remains under the
reacting influence of former mistakes! But we make some return for this by
giving back to men their good courage for the carrying out of actions that
are now reputed to be selfish, and thus restore their value,—we relieve
men’s bad consciences! and as up to the present egoistic actions have been
by far the most frequent, and will be so to all eternity, we free the
whole conception of these actions and of life from its evil appearance!
This is a very high and important result. When men no longer believe
themselves to be evil, they cease to be so.





BOOK III.




149.


LITTLE UNCONVENTIONAL ACTIONS ARE NECESSARY!—To act occasionally in
matters of custom against our own better judgments; to yield in practice
while reserving our own intellectual liberty; to behave like everybody
else and thus to show ourselves amiable and considerate to all, to
compensate them, as it were, even if only to some extent, for our
unconventional opinions—all this among many tolerably liberal-minded men
is looked upon not only as permissible but even as “honourable,” “humane,”
“tolerant,” and “unpedantic,” or whatever fine words may be used to lull
to sleep the intellectual conscience. So, for example, one man, although
he may be an atheist, has his infant baptized in the usual Christian
fashion; another goes through his period of military service, though he
may severely condemn all hatred between nations; and a third runs into the
Church with a girl because she comes from a religious family, and makes
his vows to a priest without feeling ashamed of it. “It is of no
importance if one of us does what every one else does and has done”—so
says ignorant prejudice! What a profound mistake! For nothing is of
greater importance than that a powerful, long-established, and irrational
custom should be once again confirmed by the act of some one who is
recognised as rational. In this way the proceeding is thought to be
sanctioned by reason itself! All honour to your opinions! but little
unconventional actions are of still greater value.




150.


THE HAZARD OF MARRIAGES.—If I were a god, and a benevolent god, the
marriages of men would cause me more displeasure than anything else. An
individual can make very great progress within the seventy years of his
life—yea, even within thirty years: such progress, indeed, as to surprise
even the gods! But when we then see him exposing the inheritance and
legacy of his struggles and victories, the laurel crown of his humanity,
on the first convenient peg where any female may pick it to pieces for
him; when we observe how well he can acquire and how little he is capable
of preserving his acquisitions, and how he does not even dream that by
procreation he might prepare a still more victorious life,—we then,
indeed, become impatient and say, “Nothing can in the end result from
humanity, individuals are wasted, for all rationality of a great advance
of humanity is rendered impossible by the hazard of marriages: let us
cease from being the assiduous spectators and fools of this aimless
drama!” It was in this mood that the gods of Epicurus withdrew long ago to
their divine seclusion and felicity: they were tired of men and their love
affairs.




151.


HERE ARE NEW IDEALS TO INVENT.—At a time when a man is in love he should
not be allowed to come to a decision about his life and to determine once
and for all the character of his society on account of a whim. We ought
publicly to declare invalid the vows of lovers, and to refuse them
permission to marry: and this because we should treat marriage itself much
more seriously, so that in cases where it is now contracted it would not
usually be allowed in future! Are not the majority of marriages such that
we should not care to have them witnessed by a third party? And yet this
third party is scarcely ever lacking—the child—and he is more than a
witness; he is the whipping-boy and scapegoat.




152.


FORMULA OF OATH.—“If I am now telling a lie I am no longer an honourable
man, and every one may say so to my face.” I recommend this formula in
place of the present judicial oath and its customary invocation to the
Deity: it is stronger. There is no reason why even religious men should
oppose it; for as soon as the customary oath no longer serves, all the
religious people will have to turn to their catechism, which says, “Thou
shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain.”




153.


THE MALCONTENT.—He is one of the brave old warriors: angry with
civilisation because he believes that its object is to make all good
things—honour, rewards, and fair women—accessible even to cowards.




154.


CONSOLATION AMID PERILS.—The Greeks, in the course of a life that was
always surrounded by great dangers and cataclysms, endeavoured to find in
meditation and knowledge a kind of security of feeling, a last _refugium_.
We, who live in a much more secure state, have introduced danger into
meditation and knowledge, and it is in life itself that we endeavour to
find repose, a refuge from danger.




155.


EXTINCT SCEPTICISM.—Hazardous enterprises are rarer in modern times than
in antiquity and in the Middle Ages, probably because modern times have no
more belief in omens, oracles, stars, and soothsayers. In other words, we
have become incapable of believing in a future which is reserved for us,
as the ancients did, who—in contradistinction to ourselves—were much less
sceptical regarding that which is to be than that which is.




156.


EVIL THROUGH EXUBERANCE.—“Oh, that we should not feel too happy!”—such was
the secret fear of the Greeks in their best age. _That_ is why they
preached moderation to themselves. And we?




157.


THE WORSHIP OF NATURAL SOUNDS.—What signification can we find in the fact
that our culture is not only indulgent to the manifestations of grief,
such as tears, complaints, reproaches, and attitudes of rage and humility,
but even approves them and reckons them among the most noble and essential
things?—while, on the other hand, the spirit of ancient philosophy looked
down upon them with contempt, without admitting their necessity in any
way. Let us remember how Plato—who was by no means one of the most inhuman
of the philosophers—speaks of the Philoctetus of the tragic stage. Is it
possible that our modern culture is wanting in “philosophy”? or, in
accordance with the valuations of those old philosophers, do we perhaps
all form part of the “mob”?




158.


THE CLIMATE FOR FLATTERY.—In our day flatterers should no longer be sought
at the courts of kings, since these have all acquired a taste for
militarism, which cannot tolerate flattery. But this flower even now often
grows in abundance in the neighbourhood of bankers and artists.




159.


THE REVIVERS.—Vain men value a fragment of the past more highly from the
moment when they are able to revive it in their imagination (especially if
it is difficult to do so), they would even like if possible to raise it
from the dead. Since, however, the number of vain people is always very
large, the danger presented by historical studies, if an entire epoch
devotes its attention to them, is by no means small: too great an amount
of strength is then wasted on all sorts of imaginable resurrections. The
entire movement of romanticism is perhaps best understood from this point
of view.




160.


VAIN, GREEDY, AND NOT VERY WISE.—Your desires are greater than your
understanding, and your vanity is even greater than your desires,—to
people of your type a great deal of Christian practice and a little
Schopenhauerian theory may be strongly recommended.




161.


BEAUTY CORRESPONDING TO THE AGE.—If our sculptors, painters, and musicians
wish to catch the significance of the age, they should represent beauty as
bloated, gigantic, and nervous: just as the Greeks, under the influence of
their morality of moderation, saw and represented beauty in the Apollo di
Belvedere. We should, indeed, call him ugly! But the pedantic
“classicists” have deprived us of all our honesty!




162.


THE IRONY OF THE PRESENT TIME.—At the present day it is the habit of
Europeans to treat all matters of great importance with irony, because, as
the result of our activity in their service, we have no time to take them
seriously.




163.


AGAINST ROUSSEAU.—If it is true that there is something contemptible about
our civilisation, we have two alternatives: of concluding with Rousseau
that, “This despicable civilisation is to blame for our bad morality,” or
to infer, contrary to Rousseau’s view, that “Our good morality is to blame
for this contemptible civilisation. Our social conceptions of good and
evil, weak and effeminate as they are, and their enormous influence over
both body and soul, have had the effect of weakening all bodies and souls
and of crushing all unprejudiced, independent, and self-reliant men, the
real pillars of a strong civilisation: wherever we still find the evil
morality to-day, we see the last crumbling ruins of these pillars.” Thus
let paradox be opposed by paradox! It is quite impossible for the truth to
lie with both sides: and can we say, indeed, that it lies with either?
Decide for yourself.




164.


PERHAPS PREMATURE.—It would seem at the present time that, under many
different and misleading names, and often with a great want of clearness,
those who do not feel themselves attached to morals and to established
laws are taking the first initial steps to organise themselves, and thus
to create a right for themselves; whilst hitherto, as criminals,
free-thinkers, immoral men and miscreants, they have lived beyond the pale
of the law, under the bane of outlawry and bad conscience, corrupted and
corrupting. On the whole, we should consider this as right and proper,
although it may result in insecurity for the coming century and compel
every one to bear arms.—There is thereby a counterforce which continually
reminds us that there is no exclusively moral-making morality, and that a
morality which asserts itself to the exclusion of all other morality
destroys too much sound strength and is too dearly bought by mankind. The
non-conventional and deviating people, who are so often productive and
inventive, must no longer be sacrificed: it must never again be considered
as a disgrace to depart from morality either in actions or thought; many
new experiments must be made upon life and society, and the world must be
relieved from a huge weight of bad conscience. These general aims must be
recognised and encouraged by all those upright people who are seeking
truth.




165.


A MORALITY WHICH DOES NOT BORE ONE.—The principal moral commandments which
a nation permits its teachers to emphasise again and again stand in
relation to its chief defects, and that is why it does not find them
tiresome. The Greeks, who so often failed to employ moderation, coolness,
fair-mindedness, and rationality in general, turned a willing ear to the
four Socratic virtues,—they stood in such need of them, and yet had so
little talent for them!




166.


AT THE PARTING OF THE WAYS.—Shame! You wish to form part of a system in
which you must be a wheel, fully and completely, or risk being crushed by
wheels! where it is understood that each one will be that which his
superiors make of him! where the seeking for “connections” will form part
of one’s natural duties! where no one feels himself offended when he has
his attention drawn to some one with the remark, “He may be useful to you
some time”; where people do not feel ashamed of paying a visit to ask for
somebody’s intercession, and where they do not even suspect that by such a
voluntary submission to these morals, they are once and for all stamped as
the common pottery of nature, which others can employ or break up of their
free will without feeling in any way responsible for doing so,—just as if
one were to say, “People of my type will never be lacking, therefore, do
what you will with me! Do not stand on ceremony!”




167.


UNCONDITIONAL HOMAGE.—When I think of the most read German philosopher,
the most popular German musician, and the most distinguished German
statesman, I cannot but acknowledge that life is now rendered unusually
arduous for these Germans, this nation of unconditional sentiments, and
that, too, by their own great men. We see three magnificent spectacles
spread out before us: on each occasion there is a river rushing along in
the bed which it has made for itself, and even so agitated that one thinks
at times it intends to flow uphill. And yet, however we might admire
Schopenhauer, who would not, all things considered, like to have other
opinions than his? Who in all greater and smaller things would now share
the opinions of Richard Wagner, although there may be truth in the view
expressed by some one: viz. that wherever Wagner gave or took offence some
problem lay hidden,—which, however, he did not unearth for us. And,
finally, how many are there who would be willing and eager to agree with
Bismarck, if only he could always agree with himself, or were even to show
some signs of doing so for the future! It is true that it is by no means
astonishing to find statesmen without principles, but with dominant
instincts; a versatile mind, actuated by these dominant and violent
instincts, and hence without principles—these qualities are looked upon as
reasonable and natural in a statesman. But, alas, this has up to the
present been so un-German; as un-German as the fuss made about music and
the discord and bad temper excited around the person of the musician; or
as un-German as the new and extraordinary position taken up by
Schopenhauer: he did not feel himself to be either above things or on his
knees before them—one or other of these alternatives might still have been
German—but he assumed an attitude against things! How incredible and
disagreeable! to range one’s self with things and nevertheless be their
adversary, and finally the adversary of one’s self,—what can the
unconditional admirer do with such an example? And what, again, can he do
with three such examples who cannot keep the peace towards one another!
Here we see Schopenhauer as the antagonist of Wagner’s music, Wagner
attacking Bismarck’s politics, and Bismarck attacking Wagnerism and
Schopenhauerism. What remains for us to do? Where shall we flee with our
thirst for wholesale hero-worship! Would it not be possible to choose from
the music of the musician a few hundred bars of good music which appealed
to the heart, and which we should like to take to heart because they are
inspired by the heart,—could we not stand aside with this small piece of
plunder, and forget the rest? And could we not make a similar compromise
as regards the philosopher and the statesman,—select, take to heart, and
in particular forget the rest?

Yes, if only forgetfulness were not so difficult! There was once a very
proud man who would never on any account accept anything, good or evil,
from others,—from any one, indeed, but himself. When he wanted to forget,
however, he could not bestow this gift upon himself, and was three times
compelled to conjure up the spirits. They came, listened to his desire,
and said at last, “This is the only thing it is not in our power to give!”
Could not the Germans take warning by this experience of Manfred? Why,
then, should the spirits be conjured up? It is useless. We never forget
what we endeavour to forget. And how great would be the “balance” which we
should have to forget if we wished henceforth to continue wholesale
admirers of these three great men! It would therefore be far more
advisable to profit by the excellent opportunity offered us to try
something new, _i.e._ to advance in the spirit of honesty towards
ourselves and become, instead of a nation of credulous repetition and of
bitter and blind animosity, a people of conditional assent and benevolent
opposition. We must come to learn in the first place, however, that
unconditional homage to people is something rather ridiculous, that a
change of view on this point would not discredit even Germans, and that
there is a profound and memorable saying: “Ce qui importe, ce ne sont
point les personnes: mais les choses.” This saying is like the man who
uttered it—great, honest, simple, and silent,—just like Carnot, the
soldier and Republican. But may I at the present time speak thus to
Germans of a Frenchman, and a Republican into the bargain? Perhaps not:
perhaps I must not even recall what Niebuhr in his time dared to say to
the Germans: that no one had made such an impression of true greatness
upon him as Carnot.




168.


A MODEL.—What do I like about Thucydides, and how does it come that I
esteem him more highly than Plato? He exhibits the most wide-spread and
artless pleasure in everything typical in men and events, and finds that
each type is possessed of a certain quantity of good sense: it is this
good sense which he seeks to discover. He likewise exhibits a larger
amount of practical justice than Plato; he never reviles or belittles
those men whom he dislikes or who have in any way injured him in the
course of his life. On the contrary: while seeing only types, he
introduces something noble and additional into all things and persons; for
what could posterity, to which he dedicates his work, do with things not
typical! Thus this culture of the disinterested knowledge of the world
attains in him, the poet-thinker, a final marvellous bloom,—this culture
which has its poet in Sophocles, its statesman in Pericles, its doctor in
Hippocrates, and its natural philosopher in Democritus: this culture which
deserves to be called by the name of its teachers, the Sophists, and
which, unhappily, from the moment of its baptism at once begins to grow
pale and incomprehensible to us,—for henceforward we suspect that this
culture, which was combated by Plato and all the Socratic schools, must
have been very immoral! The truth of this matter is so complicated and
entangled that we feel unwilling to unravel it: so let the old error
(_error veritate simplicior_) run its old course.




169.


THE GREEK GENIUS FOREIGN TO US.—Oriental or modern, Asiatic or European:
compared with the ancient Greeks, everything is characterised by enormity
of size and by the revelling in great masses as the expression of the
sublime, whilst in Paestum, Pompeii, and Athens we are astonished, when
contemplating Greek architecture, to see with what small masses the Greeks
were able to express the sublime, and how they loved to express it thus.
In the same way, how simple were the Greeks in the idea which they formed
of themselves! How far we surpass them in the knowledge of man! Again, how
full of labyrinths would our souls and our conceptions of our souls appear
in comparison with theirs! If we had to venture upon an architecture after
the style of our own souls—(we are too cowardly for that!)—a labyrinth
would have to be our model. That music which is peculiar to us, and which
really expresses us, lets this be clearly seen! (for in music men let
themselves go, because they think there is no one who can see them hiding
behind their music).




170.


ANOTHER POINT OF VIEW.—How we babble about the Greeks! What do we
understand of their art, the soul of which was the passion for naked
masculine beauty! It was only by starting therefrom that they appreciated
feminine beauty. For the latter they had thus a perspective quite
different from ours. It was the same in regard to their love for women:
their worship was of a different kind, and so also was their contempt.




171.


THE FOOD OF THE MODERN MAN.—He has learned to digest many things; nay,
almost everything; it is his ambition to do so. He would, however, be
really of a higher order if he did not understand this so well: _homo
pamphagus_ is not the finest type of the human race. We live between a
past which had a more wayward and deranged taste than we, and a future
which will possibly have a more select taste,—we live too much midway.




172.


TRAGEDY AND MUSIC.—Men of essentially warlike disposition, such, for
example, as the ancient Greeks in the time of Æschylus, are difficult to
rouse, and when pity once triumphs over their hardness they are seized as
by a kind of giddiness or a “demoniacal power,”—they feel themselves
overpowered and thrilled by a religious horror. After this they become
sceptical about their condition; but as long as they are in it they enjoy
the charm of being, as it were, outside themselves, and the delight of the
marvellous mixed with the bitterest gall of suffering: this is the proper
kind of drink for fighting men,—something rare, dangerous, and
bitter-sweet, which does not often fall to one’s lot.

Tragedy appeals to souls who feel pity in this way, to those fierce and
warlike souls which are difficult to overcome, whether by fear or pity,
but which lose nothing by being softened from time to time. Of what use,
however, is tragedy to those who are as open to the “sympathetic
affections” as the sails of a ship to the wind! When at the time of Plato
the Athenians had become more softened and sensitive, oh, how far they
were still removed from the gushing emotions of the inhabitants of our
modern towns and villages! And yet even then the philosophers were
beginning to complain of the injurious nature of tragedy. An epoch full of
danger such as that now beginning, in which bravery and manliness are
rising in value, will perhaps again harden souls to such an extent that
they will once more stand in need of tragic poets: but in the meantime
these are somewhat superfluous, to put it mildly. For music, too, a better
age may be approaching (it will certainly be a more evil age!) when
artists will have to make their music appeal to strongly individual
beings, beings which will have become hard and which will be dominated by
the gloomy earnestness of their own passion; but of what use is music to
the little souls of the present age which is fast passing away, souls that
are too unsteady, ill-developed, half-personal, inquisitive, and covetous
of everything?




173.


THE FLATTERERS OF WORK.—In the glorification of “work” and the
never-ceasing talk about the “blessing of labour,” I see the same secret
_arrière-pensée_ as I do in the praise bestowed on impersonal acts of a
general interest, viz. a fear of everything individual. For at the sight
of work—that is to say, severe toil from morning till night—we have the
feeling that it is the best police, viz. that it holds every one in check
and effectively hinders the development of reason, of greed, and of desire
for independence. For work uses up an extraordinary proportion of nervous
force, withdrawing it from reflection, meditation, dreams, cares, love,
and hatred; it dangles unimportant aims before the eyes of the worker and
affords easy and regular gratification. Thus it happens that a society
where work is continually being performed will enjoy greater security, and
it is security which is now venerated as the supreme deity.—And now,
horror of horrors! it is the “workman” himself who has become dangerous;
the whole world is swarming with “dangerous individuals,” and behind them
follows the danger of dangers—_the_ individuum!




174.


THE MORAL FASHION OF A COMMERCIAL COMMUNITY.—Behind the principle of the
present moral fashion: “Moral actions are actions performed out of
sympathy for others,” I see the social instinct of fear, which thus
assumes an intellectual disguise: this instinct sets forth as its supreme,
most important, and most immediate principle that life shall be relieved
of all the dangerous characteristics which it possessed in former times,
and that every one must help with all his strength towards the attainment
of this end. It is for that reason that only those actions which keep in
view the general security and the feeling of security of society are
called “good.” How little joy must men now have in themselves when such a
tyranny of fear prescribes their supreme moral law, if they make no
objection when commanded to turn their eyes from themselves and to look
aside from themselves! And yet at the same time they have lynx eyes for
all distress and suffering elsewhere! Are we not, then, with this gigantic
intention of ours of smoothing down every sharp edge and corner in life,
utilising the best means of turning mankind into sand! Small, soft, round,
infinite sand! Is that your ideal, ye harbingers of the “sympathetic
affections”? In the meantime even the question remains unanswered whether
we are of more use to our neighbour in running immediately and continually
to his help,—which for the most part can only be done in a very
superficial way, as otherwise it would become a tyrannical meddling and
changing,—or by transforming ourselves into something which our neighbour
can look upon with pleasure,—something, for example, which may be compared
to a beautiful, quiet, and secluded garden, protected by high walls
against storms and the dust of the roads, but likewise with a hospitable
gate.




175.


FUNDAMENTAL BASIS OF A CULTURE OF TRADERS.—We have now an opportunity of
watching the manifold growth of the culture of a society of which commerce
is the soul, just as personal rivalry was the soul of culture among the
ancient Greeks, and war, conquest, and law among the ancient Romans. The
tradesman is able to value everything without producing it, and to value
it according to the requirements of the consumer rather than his own
personal needs. “How many and what class of people will consume this?” is
his question of questions. Hence, he instinctively and incessantly employs
this mode of valuation and applies it to everything, including the
productions of art and science, and of thinkers, scholars, artists,
statesmen, nations, political parties, and even entire ages: with respect
to everything produced or created he inquires into the supply and demand
in order to estimate for himself the value of a thing. This, when once it
has been made the principle of an entire culture, worked out to its most
minute and subtle details, and imposed upon every kind of will and
knowledge, this is what you men of the coming century will be proud of,—if
the prophets of the commercial classes are right in putting that century
into your possession! But I have little belief in these prophets. _Credat
Judæus Apella_—to speak with Horace.




176.


THE CRITICISM OF OUR ANCESTORS.—Why should we now endure the truth, even
about the most recent past? Because there is now always a new generation
which feels itself in contradiction to the past and enjoys in this
criticism the first-fruits of its sense of power. In former times the new
generation, on the contrary, wished to base itself on the old and began to
feel conscious of its power, not only in accepting the opinions of its
ancestors but, if possible, taking them even more seriously. To criticise
ancestral authority was in former times a vice; but at the present time
our idealists begin by making it their starting-point.




177.


TO LEARN SOLITUDE.—O ye poor fellows in the great centres of the world’s
politics, ye young and talented men, who, urged on by ambition, think it
your duty to propound your opinion of every event of the day,—for
something is always happening,—who, by thus making a noise and raising a
cloud of dust, mistake yourselves for the rolling chariot of history; who,
because ye always listen, always suit the moment when ye can put in your
word or two, thereby lose all real productiveness. Whatever may be your
desire to accomplish great deeds, the deep silence of pregnancy never
comes to you! The event of the day sweeps you along like straws before the
wind whilst ye lie under the illusion that ye are chasing the event,—poor
fellows! If a man wishes to act the hero on the stage he must not think of
forming part of the chorus; he should not even know how the chorus is made
up.




178.


DAILY WEAR AND TEAR.—These young men are lacking neither in character, nor
talent, nor zeal, but they have never had sufficient time to choose their
own path; they have, on the contrary, been habituated from the most tender
age to have their path pointed out to them. At the time when they were
ripe enough to be sent into the “desert,” something else was done with
them. They were turned to account, estranged from themselves, and brought
up in such a way that they became accustomed to be worn out by their daily
toil. This was imposed on them as a duty, and now they cannot do without
it; they would not wish it to be otherwise. The only thing that cannot be
refused to these poor beasts of burden is their “holidays”—such is the
name they give to this ideal of leisure in an overworked century;
“holidays,” in which they may for once be idle, idiotic, and childish to
their heart’s content.




179.


AS LITTLE STATE AS POSSIBLE!—All political and economic matters are not of
such great value that they ought to be dealt with by the most talented
minds: such a waste of intellect is at bottom worse than any state of
distress. These matters are, and ever will be, the province of smaller
minds, and others than the smaller minds should not be at the service of
this workshop: it would be better to let the machinery work itself to
pieces again! But as matters stand at the present time, when not only do
all people believe that they must know all about it day by day, but wish
likewise to be always busy about it, and in so doing neglect their own
work, it is a great and ridiculous mistake. The price that has to be paid
for the “public safety” is far too high, and, what is maddest of all, we
effect the very opposite of “public safety” a fact which our own dear
century has undertaken to prove, as if this had never been proved before!
To make society secure against thieves and fire, and to render it
thoroughly fit for all kinds of trade and traffic, and to transform the
State in a good and evil sense into a kind of Providence—these aims are
low, mediocre, and not by any means indispensable; and we should not seek
to attain them by the aid of the highest means and instruments which
exist—means which we should reserve precisely for our highest and rarest
aims! Our epoch, however much it may babble about economy, is a
spendthrift: it wastes intellect, the most precious thing of all.




180.


WARS.—The great wars of our own day are the outcome of historical study.




181.


GOVERNING.—Some people govern because of their passion for governing;
others in order that they may not be governed,—the latter choose it as the
lesser of two evils.




182.


ROUGH AND READY CONSISTENCY.—People say of a man with great respect, “He
is a character”—that is, when he exhibits a rough and ready consistency,
when it is evident even to the dullest eye. But, whenever a more subtle
and profound intellect sets itself up and shows consistency in a higher
manner, the spectators deny the existence of any character. That is why
cunning statesmen usually act their comedy under the cloak of a kind of
rough and ready consistency.




183.


THE OLD AND THE YOUNG.—“There is something immoral about Parliaments,”—so
many people still think,—“for in them views even against the Government
may be expressed.”—“We should always adopt that view of a subject which
our gracious Lord commands,”—this is the eleventh commandment in many an
honest old head, especially in Northern Germany. We laugh at it as an
out-of-date fashion, but in former times it was the moral law itself.
Perhaps we shall again some day laugh at that which is now considered as
moral by a generation brought up under a parliamentary régime, namely, the
policy of placing one’s party before one’s own wisdom, and of answering
every question concerning the public welfare in such a way as to fill the
sails of the party with a favourable gust of wind. “We must take that view
of a subject which the position of our party calls for”—such would be the
canon. In the service of such morals we may now behold every kind of
sacrifice, even martyrdom and conquest over one’s self.




184.


THE STATE AS A PRODUCTION OF ANARCHISTS.—In countries inhabited by
tractable men there are always a few backsliders and intractable people.
For the present the latter have joined the Socialists more than any other
party. If it should happen that these people once come to have the making
of the laws, they may be relied upon to impose iron chains upon
themselves, and to practise a dreadful discipline,—they know themselves!
and they will endure these harsh laws with the knowledge that they
themselves have imposed them—the feeling of power and of this particular
power will be too recent among them and too attractive for them not to
suffer anything for its sake.




185.


BEGGARS.—Beggars ought to be suppressed; because we get angry both when we
help them and when we do not.




186.


BUSINESS MEN.—Your business is your greatest prejudice, it binds you to
your locality, your society and your tastes. Diligent in business but lazy
in thought, satisfied with your paltriness and with the cloak of duty
concealing this contentment: thus you live, and thus you like your
children to be.




187.


A POSSIBLE FUTURE.—Is it impossible for us to imagine a social state in
which the criminal will publicly denounce himself and dictate his own
punishment, in the proud feeling that he is thus honouring the law which
he himself has made, that he is exercising his power, the power of a
lawmaker, in thus punishing himself? He may offend for once, but by his
own voluntary punishment he raises himself above his offence, and not only
expiates it by his frankness, greatness, and calmness, but adds to it a
public benefit.—Such would be the criminal of a possible future, a
criminal who would, it is true, presuppose a future legislation based upon
this fundamental idea: “I yield in great things as well as in small only
to the law which I myself have made.” How many experiments must yet be
made! How many futures have yet to dawn upon mankind!




188.


STIMULANTS AND FOOD.—Nations are deceived so often because they are always
looking for a deceiver, _i.e._ a stimulating wine for their senses. When
they can only have this wine they are glad to put up even with inferior
bread. Intoxication is to them more than nutriment—this is the bait with
which they always let themselves be caught! What, to them, are men chosen
from among themselves—although they may be the most expert specialists—as
compared with the brilliant conquerors, or ancient and magnificent
princely houses! In order that he may inspire them with faith, the
demagogue must at least exhibit to them a prospect of conquest and
splendour. People will always obey, and even do more than obey, provided
that they can become intoxicated in doing so. We may not even offer them
repose and pleasure without this laurel crown and its maddening influence.

This vulgar taste which ascribes greater importance to intoxication than
nutrition did not by any means originate in the lower ranks of the
population: it was, on the contrary, transplanted there, and on this
backward soil it grows in great abundance, whilst its real origin must be
sought amongst the highest intellects, where it flourished for thousands
of years. The people is the last virgin soil upon which this brilliant
weed can grow. Well, then, is it really to the people that we should
entrust politics in order that they may thereby have their daily
intoxication?




189.


HIGH POLITICS.—Whatever may be the influence in high politics of
utilitarianism and the vanity of individuals and nations, the sharpest
spur which urges them onwards is their need for the feeling of power—a
need which rises not only in the souls of princes and rulers, but also
gushes forth from time to time from inexhaustible sources in the people.
The time comes again and again when the masses are ready to stake their
lives and their fortunes, their consciences and their virtue, in order
that they may secure that highest of all enjoyments and rule as a
victorious, tyrannical, and arbitrary nation over other nations (or at all
events think that they do).

On occasions such as these, feelings of prodigality, sacrifice, hope,
confidence, extraordinary audacity, and enthusiasm will burst forth so
abundantly that a sovereign who is ambitious or far-sighted will be able
to seize the opportunity for making war, counting upon the good conscience
of his people to hide his injustice. Great conquerors have always given
utterance to the pathetic language of virtue; they have always been
surrounded by crowds of people who felt themselves, as it were, in a state
of exaltation and would listen to none but the most elevated oratory. The
strange madness of moral judgments! When man experiences the sensation of
power he feels and calls himself good; and at exactly the same time the
others who have to endure his power call him evil!—Hesiod, in his fable of
the epochs of man, has twice in succession depicted the same epoch, that
of the heroes of Homer, and has thus made two epochs out of one: to those
who lived under the terrible iron heel of those adventurous despots, or
had heard their ancestors speak of them, the epoch appeared to be evil;
but the descendants of those chivalric races worshipped it as the “good
old times,” and as an almost ideally blissful age. The poet could thus not
help doing what he did,—his audience probably included the descendants of
both races.




190.


FORMER GERMAN CULTURE.—When the Germans began to interest other European
nations, which is not so very long ago, it was owing to a culture which
they no longer possess to-day, and which they have indeed shaken off with
a blind ardour, as if it had been some disease; and yet they have not been
able to replace it by anything better than political and national lunacy.
They have in this way succeeded in becoming even more interesting to other
nations than they were formerly through their culture: and may that
satisfy them! It is nevertheless undeniable that this German culture has
fooled Europeans, and that it did not deserve the interest shown in it,
and much less the imitation and emulation displayed by other nations in
trying to rival it.

Let us look back for a moment upon Schiller, Wilhelm von Humboldt,
Schleiermacher, Hegel, and Schelling; let us read their correspondence and
mingle for a time with the large circle of their followers: what have they
in common, what characteristics have they, that fill us, as we are now,
partly with a feeling of nausea and partly with pitiful and touching
emotions? First and foremost, the passion for appearing at all costs to be
morally exalted, and then the desire for giving utterance to brilliant,
feeble, and inconsequential remarks, together with their fixed purpose of
looking upon everything (characters, passions, times, customs) as
beautiful—“beautiful,” alas, in accordance with a bad and vague taste,
which nevertheless pretended to be of Hellenic origin. We behold in these
people a weak, good-natured, and glistening idealism, which, above all,
wished to exhibit noble attitudes and noble voices, something at once
presumptuous and inoffensive, and animated by a cordial aversion to “cold”
or “dry” reality—as also to anatomy, complete passions, and every kind of
philosophical continence and scepticism, but especially towards the
knowledge of nature in so far as it was impossible to use it as religious
symbolism.

Goethe, in his own characteristic fashion, observed from afar these
movements of German culture: placing himself beyond their influence,
gently remonstrating, silent, more and more confirmed in his own better
course. A little later, and Schopenhauer also was an observer of these
movements—a great deal of the world and devilry of the world had again
been revealed to him, and he spoke of it both roughly and
enthusiastically, for there is a certain beauty in this devilry! And what
was it, then, that really seduced the foreigners and prevented them from
viewing this movement as did Goethe and Schopenhauer, or, better, from
ignoring it altogether? It was that faint lustre, that inexplicable
starlight which formed a mysterious halo around this culture. The
foreigners said to themselves: “This is all very very remote from us; our
sight, hearing, understanding, enjoyment, and powers of valuations are
lost here, but in spite of that there may be some stars! There may be
something in it! Is it possible that the Germans have quietly discovered
some corner of heaven and settled there? We must try to come nearer to
these Germans.” So they did begin to come nearer to the Germans, while not
so very long afterwards the Germans put themselves to some trouble to get
rid of this starlight halo: they knew only too well that they had not been
in heaven, but only in a cloud!




191.


BETTER MEN.—They tell me that our art is meant for the men of the present
day, these greedy, unsatisfied, undisciplined, disgusted, and harassed
spirits, and that it exhibits to them a picture of happiness, exaltation,
and unworldliness beside that of their own brutality, so that for once
they may forget and breathe freely; nay, perhaps find that they may derive
some encouragement towards flight and conversion from that oblivion. Poor
artists, with such a public as this; half of whose thoughts require the
attention of a priest, and the other half the attention of an alienist!
How much happier was Corneille—“Our great Corneille!” as Madame de Sévigné
exclaimed, with the accent of a woman in the presence of a whole man,—how
far superior was his audience, which he could please with pictures of
chivalric virtues, strict duty, generous devotion, and heroic self-denial!
How differently did he and they love existence, not as coming from blind
and confused “will,” which we curse because we cannot destroy it; but
loving existence as a place, so to speak, where greatness joined with
humanity is possible, and where even the greatest restraint of form, such
as submission to the caprice of priests and princes, could not suppress
either the pride, chivalric feeling, the grace or the intellect of
individuals, but could, on the contrary, be felt as a charm and incentive,
as a welcome contrast to innate self-glorification and distinction and the
inherited power of volition and passion.




192.


THE DESIRE FOR PERFECT OPPONENTS.—It cannot be denied that the French have
been the most Christian nation in the world, not because the devotion of
masses in France has been greater than elsewhere, but because those
Christian ideals which are most difficult to realise have become
incarnated here instead of merely remaining fancies, intentions, or
imperfect beginnings. Take Pascal, for example, the greatest of all
Christians in his combination of ardour, intellect, and honesty, and
consider what elements had to be combined in his case! Take Fénelon, the
most perfect and attractive embodiment of ecclesiastical culture in all
its power: a sublime golden mean of whom a historian would be tempted to
prove the impossibility, whilst in reality he was merely the perfection of
something exceedingly difficult and improbable. Take Madame de Guyon among
her companions, the French Quietists: and everything that the eloquence
and ardour of the Apostle Paul has endeavoured to divine with regard to
the Christian’s state of semi-divinity, this most sublime, loving, silent,
and ecstatic state is seen verified in her, without, however, that Jewish
obtrusiveness that Paul showed towards God—due in the case of Madame de
Guyon to the real old French artlessness in words and gestures,
artlessness at once womanly, subtle, and distinguished. Consider, again,
the founder of the Trappists—the last person who really took seriously the
ascetic ideal of Christianity, not because he was an exception among
Frenchmen, but because he was a true Frenchman: for up to our own day his
gloomy organisation has not been able to acclimatise itself and to
prosper, except among Frenchmen; and it has followed them into Alsace and
Algeria.

Let us not forget the Huguenots, either: that combination of a martial and
industrial spirit, refined manners and Christian severity, has never been
more beautifully exhibited. And it was at Port Royal that the great
Christian erudition beheld its last era of prosperity; and in France more
than anywhere else great men know how to prosper. Though not at all
superficial, a great Frenchman has always his apparent superficiality;—he
has, so to speak, a natural skin for his real contents and depth,—while,
on the other hand, the depth of a great German is generally, as it were,
closed up in an ugly-shaped box, like an elixir, which, by means of a hard
and curious covering, endeavours to preserve itself from the light of day
and the touch of thoughtless hands. And now let us endeavour to find out
why a people like the French, so prolific in perfect types of Christians,
likewise necessarily brought forth the perfect contrary types, those of
unchristian free-thought! The French free-thinker, in his own inward
being, had to fight against truly great men, and not, like the
free-thinkers of other nations, merely against dogmas and sublime
abortions.




193.


_ESPRIT_ AND MORALS.—The German, who possesses the secret of knowing how
to be tedious in spite of wit, knowledge, and feeling, and who has
habituated himself to consider tediousness as moral, is in dread in the
presence of French _esprit_ lest it should tear out the eyes of
morality—but a dread mingled with “fascination,” like that experienced by
the little bird in the presence of the rattlesnake. Amongst all the
celebrated Germans none possessed more _esprit_ than Hegel, but he also
had that great German dread of it which brought about his peculiar and
defective style. For the nature of this style resembles a kernel, which is
wrapped up so many times in an outer covering that it can scarcely peep
through, now and then glancing forth bashfully and inquisitively, like
“young women peeping through their veils,” to use the words of that old
woman-hater, Æschylus. This kernel, however, is a witty though often
impertinent joke on intellectual subjects, a subtle and daring combination
of words, such as is necessary in a society of thinkers as gilding for a
scientific pill—but, enveloped as it is in an almost impenetrable cover,
it exhibits itself as the most abstruse science, and likewise as the worst
possible moral tediousness. Here the Germans had a permissible form of
_esprit_ and they revelled in it with such boundless delight that even
Schopenhauer’s unusually fine understanding could not grasp it—during the
whole of his life he thundered against the spectacle that the Germans
offered to him, but he could never explain it.




194.


VANITY OF THE TEACHERS OF MORALS.—The relatively small success which
teachers of morals have met with may be explained by the fact that they
wanted too much at once, _i.e._ they were too ambitious and too fond of
laying down precepts for everybody. In other words, they were beating the
air and making speeches to animals in order to turn them into men; what
wonder, then, that the animals thought this tedious! We should rather
choose limited circles and endeavour to find and promote morals for them:
for instance, we should make speeches to wolves with the object of turning
them into dogs; but, above all, the greatest success will remain for the
man who does not seek to educate either everybody or certain limited
circles, but only one single individual, and who cannot be turned to the
right or left from his straight purpose. The last century was superior to
ours precisely because it possessed so many individually educated men, as
well as educators in the same proportion, who had made this their life’s
task, and who with this task were dignified not only in their own eyes but
in those of all the remaining “good society.”




195.


THE SO-CALLED CLASSICAL EDUCATION.—Alas! we discover that our life is
consecrated to knowledge and that we should throw it away, nay, that we
should even have to throw it away if this consecration did not protect us
from ourselves: we repeat this couplet, and not without deep emotion:


    Thee, Fate, I follow, though I fain would not,
    And yet I must, with many a sigh and groan!


And then, in looking backwards over the course of our lives, we discover
that there is one thing that cannot be restored to us: the wasted period
of our youth, when our teachers did not utilise these ardent and eager
years to lead us to the knowledge of things, but merely to this so-called
“classical education”! Only think of this wasted youth, when we were
inoculated clumsily and painfully with an imperfect knowledge of the
Greeks and Romans as well as of their languages, contrary to the highest
principle of all culture, which holds that we should not give food except
to those who hunger for it! Think of that period of our lives when we had
mathematics and physics forced down our throats, instead of being first of
all made acquainted with the despair of ignorance, instead of having our
little daily life, our activities, and everything occurring in our houses,
our workshops, in the sky, and in nature, split up into thousands of
problems, painful, humiliating and irritating problems—and thus having our
curiosity made acquainted with the fact that we first of all require a
mathematical and mechanical knowledge before we can be allowed to rejoice
in the absolute logic of this knowledge! If we had only been imbued with
reverence for those branches of science, if we had only been made to
tremble with emotion—were it only for once—at the struggles, the defeats,
and the renewed combats of those great men, of the martyrdom which is the
history of pure science! But, on the contrary, we were allowed to develop
a certain contempt for those sciences in favour of historical training,
formal education(4) and “classicism.”

And we allowed ourselves to be so easily deceived! Formal education! Might
we not have pointed to the best teachers at our high schools and asked
laughingly, “Where then do they keep their formal education? and, if it is
wanting in them, how can they teach it?” And classicism! Did we get any of
that instruction which the ancients used to impart to their youth? Did we
learn to speak or to write like them? Did we ceaselessly exercise
ourselves in that duel of speech, dialectic? Did we learn to move as
beautifully and proudly as they did, and to excel as they did in
wrestling, throwing, and boxing? Did we learn anything of that practical
asceticism of all the Greek philosophers? Did we receive any training in a
single ancient virtue, and in the way in which the ancients were trained
in it? Was not all meditation upon morals wanting in our education?—And
how much more the only possible criticism on the subject of morality,
those courageous and earnest attempts to live according to this or that
morality! Did our teachers ever stir up a feeling in us which the ancients
valued more highly than moderns? Did they in the spirit of the ancients
indicate to us the divisions of the day and of life, and those aims by
which the lives of the ancients were guided? Did we learn the ancient
languages as we now learn the modern ones, viz. that we might speak them
fluently and well? Nowhere can we find a real proficiency or any new
faculty as the result of those toilsome years! only the knowledge of what
men had learnt and were able to do in past ages!

And what knowledge! Nothing becomes clearer to me year by year than the
fact that the entire Greek and ancient mode of life, however simple and
evident it must seem to our eyes, is in truth very difficult to
understand, and even scarcely accessible, and that the customary ease with
which we babble about the ancients is either giddy levity or the old
hereditary conceit of our thoughtlessness. We are deceived by words and
ideas which appear to resemble our own, but behind them there is always
concealed a feeling which must be strange, incomprehensible, or painful to
our modern conceptions. And these are realms in which boys are allowed to
roam about! Enough: we roamed about them in our childhood, and there we
became seized with an almost ineradicable antipathy for all antiquity, the
antipathy arising from an intimacy which was apparently too great! For so
great is the conceit of our classical teachers, who would almost make it
appear that they had gained full control over the ancients, that they pass
on this conceit to their pupils, together with the suspicion that such a
possession is of little use for making people happy, but is good enough
for honest, foolish old book-worms. “Let them brood over their treasure:
it is well worthy of them!”—It is with this unexpressed thought that we
completed our classical education. It can’t be changed now—for us, at all
events! But let us not think of ourselves alone!




196.


THE MOST PERSONAL QUESTIONS OF TRUTH.—What am I really doing, and what do
I mean by doing it? That is the question of truth which is not taught
under our present system of education, and consequently not asked, because
there is no time for it. On the other hand, we have always time and
inclination for talking nonsense with children, rather than telling them
the truth; for flattering women who will later on be mothers, rather than
telling them the truth; and for speaking with young men about their future
and their pleasures, rather than about the truth!

But what, after all, are seventy years!—Time passes, and they soon come to
an end; it matters as little to us as it does to the wave to know how and
whither it is rolling! No, it might even be wisdom not to know it.

“Agreed; but it shows a want of pride not even to inquire into the matter;
our culture does not tend to make people proud.”

“So much the better!”

“Is it really?”




197.


ENMITY OF THE GERMANS TOWARDS ENLIGHTENMENT.—Let us consider the
contributions which in the first half of this century the Germans made to
general culture by their intellectual work. In the first place, let us
take the German philosophers: they went back to the first and oldest stage
of speculation, for they were content with conceptions instead of
explanations, like the thinkers of dreamy epochs—a pre-scientific type of
philosophy was thus revived by them. Secondly, we have the German
historians and romanticists: their efforts on the whole aimed at restoring
to the place of honour certain old and primitive sentiments, especially
Christianity, the “soul of the people,” folk-lore, folk-speech,
mediævalism, Oriental asceticism, and Hinduism. In the third place, there
are the natural philosophers who fought against the spirit of Newton and
Voltaire, and, like Goethe and Schopenhauer, endeavoured to re-establish
the idea of a deified or diabolised nature, and of its absolute ethical
and symbolical meaning. The main general tendency of the Germans was
directed against enlightenment and against those social revolutions which
were stupidly mistaken for the consequences of enlightenment: the piety
towards everything that existed tried to become piety towards everything
that had ever existed, only in order that heart and mind might be
permitted to fill themselves and gush forth again, thus leaving no space
for future and novel aims. The cult of feeling took the place of the cult
of reason, and the German musicians, as the best exponents of all that is
invisible, enthusiastic, legendary, and passionate, showed themselves more
successful in building up the new temple than all the other artists in
words and thoughts.

If, in considering these details, we have taken into account the fact that
many good things were said and investigated, and that many things have
since then been more fairly judged than on any previous occasion, there
yet remains to be said of the whole that it was a general danger, and one
by no means small, to set knowledge altogether below feeling under the
appearance of an entire and definitive acquaintance with the past—and, to
use that expression of Kant, who thus defined his own particular task—“To
make way again for belief by fixing the limits of knowledge.” Let us once
more breathe freely, the hour of this danger is past! And yet, strange to
say, the very spirits which these Germans conjured up with such eloquence
have at length become the most dangerous for the intentions of those who
did conjure them up: history, the comprehension of origin and development,
sympathy with the past, the new passion for feeling and knowledge, after
they had been for a long time at the service of this obscure exalted and
retrograde spirit, have once more assumed another nature, and are now
soaring with outstretched wings above the heads of those who once upon a
time conjured them forth, as new and stronger genii of that very
enlightenment to combat which they had been resuscitated. It is this
enlightenment which we have now to carry forward,—caring nothing for the
fact that there has been and still is “a great revolution,” and again a
great “reaction” against it: these are but playful crests of foam when
compared with the truly great current on which we float, and want to
float.




198.


ASSIGNING PRESTIGE TO ONE’S COUNTRY.—It is the men of culture who
determine the rank of their country, and they are characterised by an
innumerable number of great inward experiences, which they have digested
and can now value justly. In France and Italy this fell to the lot of the
nobility; in Germany, where up to now the nobility has been, as a rule,
composed of men who had not much intellect to boast about (perhaps this
will soon cease to be the case), it was the task of the priests, the
school teachers and their descendants.




199.


WE ARE NOBLER.—Fidelity, generosity, concern for one’s good reputation:
these three qualities, combined in one sentiment, we call noble,
distinguished, aristocratic; and in this respect we excel the Greeks. We
do not wish to give this up at any cost under the pretext that the ancient
objects of these virtues have rightly fallen in esteem, but we wish
cautiously to substitute new objects for these most precious and
hereditary impulses. To understand why the sentiments of the noblest
Greeks must be considered as inferior and scarcely respectable in the
present age, where we are still under the influence of the chivalric and
feudal nobility, we must recall the words of consolation to which Ulysses
gave utterance in the midst of the most humiliating situations, “Bear with
it, my dear heart, bear with it! Thou hast borne with many more swinish
things(5) than these!” As an instance of this mythical example, consider
also the tale of that Athenian officer, who, when threatened with a stick
by another officer in the presence of the entire general staff, shook off
his disgrace with the words, “Strike, but listen to me.” (This was
Themistocles, that ingenious Ulysses of the classical epoch, who was just
the man at the moment of disgrace to address to his “dear heart” that
verse of comfort and affliction.)

The Greeks were far from making light of life and death because of an
insult, as we, influenced by a hereditary spirit of chivalric
adventurousness and self-devotion, are in the habit of doing; or from
looking for opportunities of honourably risking life and death, as in
duels; or from valuing the preservation of an unstained name (honour) more
than the acquirement of an evil reputation, when the latter was compatible
with glory and the feeling of power; or from remaining faithful to the
prejudices and the articles of faith of a caste, when these could prevent
them from becoming tyrants. For this is the ignoble secret of the good
Greek aristocrat: out of sheer jealousy he treats every one of the members
of his caste as being on an equal footing with himself, but he is ready at
every moment to spring like a tiger on his prey—despotism. What matter
lies, murders, treason, or the betrayal of his native city to him! Justice
was an extremely difficult matter for people of this kind to
understand—nay, justice was almost something incredible. “The just man”
was to the Greeks what “the saint” was to the Christians. When Socrates,
however, laid down the axiom, “The most virtuous man is the happiest,”
they could not trust their ears; they thought they had heard a madman
speaking. For, as a picture of the happiest man, every nobleman had in his
mind the cheeky audacity and devilry of the tyrant who sacrifices
everything and every one to his own exuberance and pleasure. Among people
whose imagination secretly raved about such happiness, the worship of the
State could not, of course, have been too deeply implanted—but I think
that men whose desire for power does not rage so blindly as that of the
Greek noblemen no longer stand in need of such idolatry of the State, by
means of which, in past ages, such a passion was kept within due bounds.




200.


ENDURANCE OF POVERTY.—There is one great advantage in noble extraction: it
makes us endure poverty better.




201.


THE FUTURE OF THE NOBILITY.—The bearing of the aristocratic classes shows
that, in all the members of their body the consciousness of power is
continually playing its fascinating game. Thus people of aristocratic
habits, men or women, never sink worn out into a chair; when every one
else makes himself comfortable, as in a train, for example, they avoid
reclining at their ease; they do not appear to get tired after standing at
Court for hours at a stretch; they do not furnish their houses in a
comfortable manner, but in such a way as to produce the impression of
something grand and imposing, as if they had to serve as a residence for
greater and taller beings; they reply to a provoking speech with dignity
and clearness of mind, and not as if scandalised, crushed, shamed, or out
of breath in the plebeian fashion. As the aristocrat is able to preserve
the appearance of being possessed of a superior physical force which never
leaves him, he likewise wishes by his aspect of constant serenity and
civility of disposition, even in the most trying circumstances, to convey
the impression that his mind and soul are equal to all dangers and
surprises. A noble culture may resemble, so far as passions are concerned,
either a horseman who takes pleasure in making his proud and fiery animal
trot in the Spanish fashion,—we have only to recollect the age of Louis
XIV.,—or like the rider who feels his horse dart away with him like the
elemental forces, to such a degree that both horse and rider come near
losing their heads, but, owing to the enjoyment of the delight, do keep
very clear heads: in both these cases this aristocratic culture breathes
power, and if very often in its customs only the appearance of the feeling
of power is required, nevertheless the real sense of superiority continues
constantly to increase as the result of the impression which this display
makes upon those who are not aristocrats.

This indisputable happiness of aristocratic culture, based as it is on the
feeling of superiority, is now beginning to rise to ever higher levels;
for now, thanks to the free spirits, it is henceforth permissible and not
dishonourable for people who have been born and reared in aristocratic
circles to enter the domain of knowledge, where they may secure more
intellectual consecrations and learn chivalric services even higher than
those of former times, and where they may look up to that ideal of
victorious wisdom which as yet no age has been able to set before itself
with so good a conscience as the period which is about to dawn. Lastly,
what is to be the occupation of the nobility in the future if it becomes
more evident from day to day that it is less and less indecorus to take
any part in politics?




202.


THE CARE OF THE HEALTH.—We have scarcely begun to devote any attention to
the physiology of criminals, and yet we have already reached the
inevitable conclusion that between criminals and madmen there is no really
essential difference: _if we suppose that the current moral fashion of
thinking is a healthy way of thinking_. No belief, however, is nowadays
more firmly believed in than this one, so we should not therefore shrink
from drawing the inevitable conclusion and treating the criminal like a
lunatic—above all, not with haughty pitifulness, but with medical skill
and good will. He may perhaps be in need of a change of air, a change of
society, or temporary absence: perhaps of solitude and new
occupations—very well! He may perhaps feel that it would be to his
advantage to live under surveillance for a short time in order thus to
obtain protection from himself and from a troublesome tyrannical
impulse—very well! We should make clear to him the possibility and the
means of curing him (the extermination, transformation, and sublimation of
these impulses), and also, in the worst cases, the improbability of a
cure; and we should offer to the incurable criminal, who has become a
useless burden to himself, the opportunity of committing suicide. While
holding this in reserve as an extreme measure of relief, we should neglect
nothing which would tend above all to restore to the criminal his good
courage and freedom of spirit; we should free his soul from all remorse,
as if it were something unclean, and show him how he may atone for a wrong
which he may have done some one by benefiting some one else, perhaps the
community at large, in such way that he might even do more than balance
his previous offence.

All this must be done with the greatest tact! The criminal must, above
all, remain anonymous or adopt an assumed name, changing his place of
residence frequently, so that his reputation and future life may suffer as
little as possible. At the present time it is true that the man who has
been injured, apart altogether from the manner in which this injury might
be redressed, wishes for revenge in addition, and applies to the courts
that he may obtain it—and this is why our dreadful penal laws are still in
force: Justice, as it were, holding up a pair of shopkeeper’s scales and
endeavouring to balance the guilt by punishment; but can we not take a
step beyond this? Would it not be a great relief to the general sentiment
of life if, while getting rid of our belief in guilt, we could also get
rid of our old craving for vengeance, and gradually come to believe that
it is a refined wisdom for happy men to bless their enemies and to do good
to those who have offended them, exactly in accordance with the spirit of
Christian teaching! Let us free the world from this idea of sin, and take
care to cast out with it the idea of punishment. May these monstrous ideas
henceforth live banished far from the abodes of men—if, indeed, they must
live at all, and do not perish from disgust with themselves.

Let us not forget also, however, that the injury caused to society and to
the individual by the criminal is of the same species as that caused by
the sick: for the sick spread cares and ill-humour; they are
non-productive, consume the earnings of others, and at the same time
require attendance, doctors, and support, and they really live on the time
and strength of the healthy. In spite of this, however, we should
designate as inhuman any one who, for this reason, would wish to wreak
vengeance on the sick. In past ages, indeed, this was actually done: in
primitive conditions of society, and even now among certain savage
peoples, the sick man is treated as a criminal and as a danger to the
community, and it is believed that he is the resting-place of certain
demoniacal beings who have entered into his body as the result of some
offence he has committed—those ages and peoples hold that the sick are the
guilty!

And what of ourselves? Are we not yet ripe for the contrary conception?
Shall we not be allowed to say, “The guilty are the sick”? No; the hour
for that has not yet come. We still lack, above all, those physicians who
have learnt something from what we have hitherto called practical morals
and have transformed it into the art and science of healing. We still lack
that intense interest in those things which some day perhaps may seem not
unlike the “storm and stress” of those old religious ecstasies. The
Churches have not yet come into the possession of those who look after our
health; the study of the body and of dietary are not yet amongst the
obligatory subjects taught in our primary and secondary schools; there are
as yet no quiet associations of those people who are pledged to one
another to do without the help of law courts, and who renounce the
punishment and vengeance now meted out to those who have offended against
society. No thinker has as yet been daring enough to determine the health
of society, and of the individuals who compose it, by the number of
parasites which it can support; and no statesman has yet been found to use
the ploughshare in the spirit of that generous and tender saying, “If thou
wilt till the land, till it with the plough; then the bird and the wolf,
walking behind thy plough, will rejoice in thee—all creatures will rejoice
in thee.”




203.


AGAINST BAD DIET.—Fie upon the meals which people nowadays eat in hotels
and everywhere else where the well-off classes of society live! Even when
eminent men of science meet together their tables groan under the weight
of the dishes, in accordance with the principle of the bankers: the
principle of too many dishes and too much to eat. The result of this is
that dinners are prepared with a view to their mere appearance rather than
the consequences that may follow from eating them, and that stimulating
drinks are required to help in driving away the heaviness in the stomach
and in the brain. Fie on the dissoluteness and extreme nervousness which
must follow upon all this! Fie upon the dreams that such repasts bring!
Fie upon the arts and books which must be the desert of such meals!
Despite all the efforts of such people their acts will taste of pepper and
ill-temper, or general weariness! (The wealthy classes in England stand in
great need of their Christianity in order to be able to endure their bad
digestions and their headaches.) Finally, to mention not only the
disgusting but also the more pleasant side of the matter, these people are
by no means mere gluttons: our century and its spirit of activity has more
power over the limbs than the belly. What then is the meaning of these
banquets? They represent! What in Heaven’s name do they represent?
Rank?—no, money! There is no rank now! We are all “individuals”! but money
now stands for power, glory, pre-eminence, dignity, and influence; money
at the present time acts as a greater or lesser moral prejudice for a man
in proportion to the amount he may possess. Nobody wishes to hide it under
a bushel or display it in heaps on a table: hence money must have some
representative which can be put on the table—so behold our banquets!




204.


DANÆ AND THE GOD OF GOLD.—Whence arises this excessive impatience in our
day which turns men into criminals even in circumstances which would be
more likely to bring about the contrary tendency? What induces one man to
use false weights, another to set his house on fire after having insured
it for more than its value, a third to take part in counterfeiting, while
three-fourths of our upper classes indulge in legalised fraud, and suffer
from the pangs of conscience that follow speculation and dealings on the
Stock Exchange: what gives rise to all this? It is not real want,—for
their existence is by no means precarious; perhaps they have even enough
to eat and drink without worrying,—but they are urged on day and night by
a terrible impatience at seeing their wealth pile up so slowly, and by an
equally terrible longing and love for these heaps of gold. In this
impatience and love, however, we see re-appear once more that fanaticism
of the desire for power which was stimulated in former times by the belief
that we were in the possession of truth, a fanaticism which bore such
beautiful names that we could dare to be inhuman with a good conscience
(burning Jews, heretics, and good books, and exterminating entire cultures
superior to ours, such as those of Peru and Mexico). The means of this
desire for power are changed in our day, but the same volcano is still
smouldering, impatience and intemperate love call for their victims, and
what was once done “for the love of God” is now done for the love of
money, _i.e._ for the love of that which at present affords us the highest
feeling of power and a good conscience.




205.


THE PEOPLE OF ISRAEL.—One of the spectacles which the next century will
invite us to witness is the decision regarding the fate of the European
Jews. It is quite obvious now that they have cast their die and crossed
their Rubicon: the only thing that remains for them is either to become
masters of Europe or to lose Europe, as they once centuries ago lost
Egypt, where they were confronted with similar alternatives. In Europe,
however, they have gone through a schooling of eighteen centuries such as
no other nation has ever undergone, and the experiences of this dreadful
time of probation have benefited not only the Jewish community but, even
to a greater extent, the individual. As a consequence of this, the
resourcefulness of the modern Jews, both in mind and soul, is
extraordinary. Amongst all the inhabitants of Europe it is the Jews least
of all who try to escape from any deep distress by recourse to drink or to
suicide, as other less gifted people are so prone to do. Every Jew can
find in the history of his own family and of his ancestors a long record
of instances of the greatest coolness and perseverance amid difficulties
and dreadful situations, an artful cunning in fighting with misfortune and
hazard. And above all it is their bravery under the cloak of wretched
submission, their heroic _spernere se sperni_ that surpasses the virtues
of all the saints.

People wished to make them contemptible by treating them contemptibly for
nearly twenty centuries, and refusing them access to all honourable
positions and dignities, and by pushing them further down into the meaner
trades—and under this process indeed they have not become any cleaner. But
contemptible? They have never ceased for a moment from believing
themselves qualified for the very highest functions, nor have the virtues
of the suffering ever ceased to adorn them. Their manner of honouring
their parents and children, the rationality of their marriages and
marriage customs, distinguishes them amongst all Europeans. Besides this,
they have been able to create for themselves a sense of power and eternal
vengeance from the very trades that were left to them (or to which they
were abandoned). Even in palliation of their usury we cannot help saying
that, without this occasional pleasant and useful torture inflicted on
their scorners, they would have experienced difficulty in preserving their
self-respect for so long. For our self-respect depends upon our ability to
make reprisals in both good and evil things. Nevertheless, their revenge
never urges them on too far, for they all have that liberty of mind, and
even of soul, produced in men by frequent changes of place, climate, and
customs of neighbours and oppressors, they possess by far the greatest
experience in all human intercourse, and even in their passions they
exercise the caution which this experience has developed in them. They are
so certain of their intellectual versatility and shrewdness that they
never, even when reduced to the direst straits, have to earn their bread
by manual labour as common workmen, porters, or farm hands. In their
manners we can still see that they have never been inspired by chivalric
and noble feelings, or that their bodies have ever been girt with fine
weapons: a certain obtrusiveness alternates with a submissiveness which is
often tender and almost always painful.

Now, however, that they unavoidably inter-marry more and more year after
year with the noblest blood of Europe, they will soon have a considerable
heritage of good intellectual and physical manners, so that in another
hundred years they will have a sufficiently noble aspect not to render
themselves, as masters, ridiculous to those whom they will have subdued.
And this is important! and therefore a settlement of the question is still
premature. They themselves know very well that the conquest of Europe or
any act of violence is not to be thought of; but they also know that some
day or other Europe may, like a ripe fruit, fall into their hands, if they
do not clutch at it too eagerly. In the meantime, it is necessary for them
to distinguish themselves in all departments of European distinction and
to stand in the front rank: until they shall have advanced so far as to
determine themselves what distinction shall mean. Then they will be called
the pioneers and guides of the Europeans whose modesty they will no longer
offend.

And then where shall an outlet be found for this abundant wealth of great
impressions accumulated during such an extended period and representing
Jewish history for every Jewish family, this wealth of passions, virtues,
resolutions, resignations, struggles, and conquests of all kinds—where can
it find an outlet but in great intellectual men and works! On the day when
the Jews will be able to exhibit to us as their own work such jewels and
golden vessels as no European nation, with its shorter and less profound
experience, can or could produce, when Israel shall have changed its
eternal vengeance into an eternal benediction for Europe: then that
seventh day will once more appear when old Jehovah may rejoice in Himself,
in His creation, in His chosen people—and all, all of us, will rejoice
with Him!




206.


THE IMPOSSIBLE CLASS.—Poverty, cheerfulness, and independence—it is
possible to find these three qualities combined in one individual;
poverty, cheerfulness, and slavery—this is likewise a possible
combination: and I can say nothing better to the workmen who serve as
factory slaves; presuming that it does not appear to them altogether to be
a shameful thing to be utilised as they are, as the screws of a machine
and the stopgaps, as it were, of the human spirit of invention. Fie on the
thought that merely by means of higher wages the essential part of their
misery, _i.e._ their impersonal enslavement, might be removed! Fie, that
we should allow ourselves to be convinced that, by an increase of this
impersonality within the mechanical working of a new society, the disgrace
of slavery could be changed into a virtue! Fie, that there should be a
regular price at which a man should cease to be a personality and become a
screw instead! Are you accomplices in the present madness of nations which
desire above all to produce as much as possible, and to be as rich as
possible? Would it not be your duty to present a counter-claim to them,
and to show them what large sums of internal value are wasted in the
pursuit of such an external object?

But where is your internal value when you no longer know what it is to
breathe freely; when you have scarcely any command over your own selves,
and often feel disgusted with yourselves as with some stale food; when you
zealously study the newspapers and look enviously at your wealthy
neighbour, made covetous by the rapid rise and fall of power, money, and
opinions; when you no longer believe in a philosophy in rags, or in the
freedom of spirit of a man who has few needs; when a voluntary and idyllic
poverty without profession or marriage, such as should suit the more
intellectual ones among you, has become for you an object of derision? On
the other hand, the piping of the Socialistic rat-catchers who wish to
inspire you with foolish hopes is continually sounding in your ears: they
tell you to be ready and nothing further, ready from this day to the next,
so that you wait and wait for something to come from outside, though
living in all other respects as you lived before—until this waiting is at
length changed into hunger and thirst and fever and madness, and the clay
of the _bestia triumphans_ at last dawns in all its glory. Every one of
you should on the contrary say to himself: “It would be better to emigrate
and endeavour to become a master in new and savage countries, and
especially to become master over myself, changing my place of abode
whenever the least sign of slavery threatens me, endeavouring to avoid
neither adventure nor war, and, if things come to the worst, holding
myself ready to die: anything rather than continuing in this state of
disgraceful thraldom, this bitterness, malice and rebelliousness!” This
would be the proper spirit: the workmen in Europe ought to make it clear
that their position as a class has become a human impossibility, and not
merely, as they at present maintain, the result of some hard and aimless
arrangement of society. They should bring about an age of great swarming
forth from the European beehive such as has never yet been seen,
protesting by this voluntary and huge migration against machines and
capital and the alternatives that now threaten them either of becoming
slaves of the State or slaves of some revolutionary party.

May Europe be freed from one-fourth of her inhabitants! Both she and they
will experience a sensation of relief. It is only far in the distance, in
the undertaking of vast colonisations, that we shall be able to observe
how much rationality, fairness, and healthy suspicion mother Europe has
incorporated in her sons—these sons who could no longer endure life in the
home of the dull old woman, always running the danger of becoming as
bad-tempered, irritable, and pleasure-seeking as she herself. The European
virtues will travel along with these workmen far beyond the boundaries of
Europe; and those very qualities which on their native soil had begun to
degenerate into a dangerous discontent and criminal inclinations will,
when abroad, be transformed into a beautiful, savage naturalness and will
be called heroism; so that at last a purer air would again be wafted over
this old, over-populated, and brooding Europe of ours. What would it
matter if there was a scarcity of “hands”? Perhaps people would then
recollect that they had accustomed themselves to many wants merely because
it was easy to gratify them—it would be sufficient to unlearn some of
these wants! Perhaps also Chinamen would be called in, and these would
bring with them their modes of living and thinking, which would be found
very suitable for industrious ants. They would also perhaps help to imbue
this fretful and restless Europe with some of their Asiatic calmness and
contemplation, and—what is perhaps most needful of all—their Asiatic
stability.




207.


THE ATTITUDE OF THE GERMANS TO MORALITY.—A German is capable of great
things, but he is unlikely to accomplish them, for he obeys whenever he
can, as suits a naturally lazy intellect. If he is ever in the dangerous
situation of having to stand alone and cast aside his sloth, when he finds
it no longer possible to disappear like a cipher in a number (in which
respect he is far inferior to a Frenchman or an Englishman), he shows his
true strength: then he becomes dangerous, evil, deep, and audacious, and
exhibits to the light of day that wealth of latent energy which he had
previously carried hidden in himself, and in which no one, not even
himself, had ever believed. When in such a case a German obeys himself—it
is very exceptional for him to do so—he does so with the same heaviness,
inflexibility, and endurance with which he obeys his prince and performs
his official duties: so that, as I have said, he is then capable of great
things which bear no relation to the “weak disposition” he attributes to
himself.

As a rule, however, he is afraid of depending upon himself alone, he is
afraid of taking the initiative: that is why Germany uses up so many
officials and so much ink. Light-heartedness is a stranger to the German;
he is too timid for it: but in entirely new situations which rouse him
from his torpor he exhibits an almost frivolous spirit—he then delights in
the novelty of his new position as if it were some intoxicating drink, and
he is, as we know, quite a connoisseur in intoxication. It thus happens
that the German of the present day is almost always frivolous in politics,
though even here he has the advantage and prejudice of thoroughness and
seriousness; and, although he may take full advantage of these qualities
in negotiations with other political powers, he nevertheless rejoices
inwardly at being able for once in his life to feel enthusiastic and
capricious, to show his fondness for innovations, and to change persons,
parties, and hopes as if they were masks. Those learned German scholars,
who hitherto have been considered as the most German of Germans, were and
perhaps still are as good as the German soldiers on account of their
profound and almost childish inclination to obey in all external things,
and on account of being often compelled to stand alone in science and to
answer for many things: if they can only preserve their proud, simple, and
patient disposition, and their freedom from political madness at those
times when the wind changes, we may yet expect great things from them—such
as they are or such as they were, they are the embryonic stage of
something higher.

So far the advantages and disadvantages of the Germans, including even
their learned men, have been that they were more given to superstition and
showed greater eagerness to believe than any of the other nations; their
vices are, and always have been, their drunkenness and suicidal
inclinations (the latter a proof of the clumsiness of their intellect,
which is easily tempted to throw away the reins). Their danger is to be
sought in everything that binds down the faculties of reason and unchains
the passions (as, for example, the excessive use of music and spirits),
for the German passion acts contrarily to its own advantage, and is as
self-destructive as the passions of the drunkard. Indeed, German
enthusiasm is worth less than that of other nations, for it is barren.
When a German ever did anything great it was done at a time of danger, or
when his courage was high, with his teeth firmly set and his prudence on
the alert, and often enough in a fit of generosity.—Intercourse with these
Germans is indeed advisable, for almost every one of them has something to
give, if we can only understand how to make him find it, or rather recover
it (for he is very untidy in storing away his knowledge).

Well: when people of this type occupy themselves with morals, what
precisely will be the morality that will satisfy them? In the first place,
they will wish to see idealised in their morals their sincere instinct for
obedience. “Man must have something which he can implicitly obey”—this is
a German sentiment, a German deduction; it is the basis of all German
moral teaching. How different is the impression, however, when we compare
this with the entire morality of the ancient world! All those Greek
thinkers, however varied they may appear to us, seem to resemble, as
moralists, the gymnastic teacher who encourages his pupils by saying,
“Come, follow me! Submit to my discipline! Then perhaps you may carry off
the prize from all the other Greeks.” Personal distinction: such was the
virtue of antiquity. Submission, obedience, whether public or private:
such is German virtue. Long before Kant set forth his doctrine of the
Categorical Imperative, Luther, actuated by the same impulse, said that
there surely must be a being in whom man could trust implicitly—it was his
proof of the existence of God; it was his wish, coarser and more popular
than that of Kant, that people should implicitly obey a person and not an
idea, and Kant also finally took his roundabout route through morals
merely that he might secure obedience for the person. This is indeed the
worship of the German, the more so as there is now less worship left in
his religion.

The Greeks and Romans had other opinions on these matters, and would have
laughed at such “there must be a being”: it is part of the boldness of
their Southern nature to take up a stand against “implicit belief,” and to
retain in their inmost heart a trace of scepticism against all and every
one, whether God, man, or idea. The thinker of antiquity went even
further, and said _nil admirari_: in this phrase he saw reflected all
philosophy. A German, Schopenhauer, goes so far in the contrary direction
as to say: _admirari id est philosophari_. But what if, as happens now and
then, the German should attain to that state of mind which would enable
him to perform great things? if the hour of exception comes, the hour of
disobedience? I do not think Schopenhauer is right in saying that the
single advantage the Germans have over other nations is that there are
more atheists among them than elsewhere; but I do know this: whenever the
German reaches the state in which he is capable of great things, he
invariably raises himself above morals! And why should he not? Now he has
something new to do, viz. to command—either himself or others! But this
German morality of his has not taught him how to command! Commanding has
been forgotten in it.





BOOK IV.




208.


A QUESTION OF CONSCIENCE.—“Now, _in summa_, tell me what this new thing is
that you want.”—“We no longer wish causes to be sinners and effects to be
executioners.”




209.


THE UTILITY OF THE STRICTEST THEORIES.—People are indulgent towards a
man’s moral weaknesses, and in this connection they use a coarse sieve,
provided that he always professes to hold the most strict moral theories.
On the other hand, the lives of free-thinking moralists have always been
examined closely through a microscope, in the tacit belief that an error
in their lives would be the best argument against their disagreeable
knowledge.(6)




210.


THE “THING IN ITSELF.”—We used to ask formerly: What is the ridiculous?—as
if there were something above and beyond ourselves that possessed the
quality of provoking laughter, and we exhausted ourselves in trying to
guess what it was (a theologian even held that it might be “the _naïveté_
of sin”). At the present time we ask: What is laughter? how does it arise?
We have considered the point, and finally reached the conclusion that
there is nothing which is good, beautiful, sublime, or evil in itself; but
rather that there are conditions of soul which lead us to attribute such
qualities to things outside ourselves and in us. We have taken back their
predicates from things; or we have at all events recollected that we have
merely lent the things these predicates. Let us be careful that this
insight does not cause us to lose the faculty of lending, and that we do
not become at the same time wealthier and more avaricious.




211.


TO THOSE WHO DREAM OF IMMORTALITY.—So you desire the everlasting
perpetuity of this beautiful consciousness of yourselves? Is it not
shameful? Do you forget all those other things which would in their turn
have to support _you_ for all eternity, just as they have borne with you
up to the present with more than Christian patience? Or do you think that
you can inspire them with an eternally pleasant feeling towards yourself?
A single immortal man on earth would imbue everyone around him with such a
disgust for him that a general epidemic of murder and suicide would be
brought about. And yet, ye petty dwellers on earth, with your narrow
conceptions of a few thousand little minutes of time, ye would wish to be
an everlasting burden on this everlasting universal existence! Could
anything be more impertinent? After all, however, let us be indulgent
towards a being of seventy years: he has not been able to exercise his
imagination in conceiving his own “eternal tediousness”—he had not time
enough for that!




212.


WHEREIN WE KNOW OURSELVES.—As soon as one animal sees another it mentally
compares itself with it; and men of uncivilised ages did the same. The
consequence is that almost all men come to know themselves only as regards
their defensive and offensive faculties.




213.


MEN WHOSE LIVES HAVE BEEN FAILURES.—Some men are built of such stuff that
society is at liberty to do what it likes with them—they will do well in
any case, and will not have to complain of having failed in life. Other
men are formed of such peculiar material—it need not be a particularly
noble one, but simply rarer—that they are sure to fare ill except in one
single instance: when they can live according to their own designs,—in all
other cases the injury has to be borne by society. For everything that
seems to the individual to be a wasted or blighted life, his entire burden
of discouragement, powerlessness, sickness, irritation, covetousness, is
attributed by him to society—and thus a heavy, vitiated atmosphere is
gradually formed round society, or, in the most favourable cases, a
thundercloud.




214.


WHAT INDULGENCE!—You suffer, and call upon us to be indulgent towards you,
even when in your suffering you are unjust towards things and men! But
what does our indulgence matter! You, however, should take greater
precautions for your own sake! That’s a nice way of compensating yourself
for your sufferings, by imposing still further suffering on your own
judgment! Your own revenge recoils upon yourselves when you start reviling
something: you dim your own eyes in this way, and not the eyes of others;
you accustom yourself to looking at things in the wrong way, and with a
squint.




215.


THE MORALITY OF VICTIMS.—“Enthusiastic sacrifice,” “self-immolation”—these
are the catch-words of your morality, and I willingly believe that you, as
you say, “mean it honestly”: but I know you better than you know
yourselves, if your “honesty” is capable of going arm in arm with such a
morality. You look down from the heights of this morality upon that other
sober morality which calls for self-control, severity, and obedience; you
even go so far as to call it egoistic—and you are indeed frank towards
yourselves in saying that it displeases you—it must displease you! For, in
sacrificing and immolating yourselves with such enthusiasm, you delight in
the intoxication of the thought that you are now one with the powerful
being, God or man, to whom you are consecrating yourselves: you revel in
the feeling of his power, which is again attested by this sacrifice.

In reality, however, you only _appear_ to sacrifice yourselves; for your
imagination turns you into gods and you enjoy yourselves as such. Judged
from the point of view of this enjoyment, how poor and feeble must that
other “egoistic” morality of obedience, duty, and reason seem to you: it
is displeasing to you because in this instance true self-sacrifice and
self-surrender are called for, without the victim thinking himself to be
transformed into a god, as you do. In a word, you want intoxication and
excess, and this morality which you despise takes up a stand against
intoxication and excess—no wonder it causes you some displeasure!




216.


EVIL PEOPLE AND MUSIC.—Should the full bliss of love, which consists in
unlimited confidence, ever have fallen to the lot of persons other than
those who are profoundly suspicious, evil, and bitter? For such people
enjoy in this bliss the gigantic, unlooked-for, and incredible _exception_
of their souls! One day they are seized with that infinite, dreamy
sensation which is entirely opposed to the remainder of their private and
public life, like a delicious enigma, full of golden splendour, and
impossible to be described by mere words or similes. Implicit confidence
makes them speechless—there is even a species of suffering and heaviness
in this blissful silence; and this is why souls that are overcome with
happiness generally feel more grateful to music than others and better
ones do: for they see and hear through music, as through a coloured mist,
their love becoming, as it were, more distant, more touching, and less
heavy. Music is the only means that such people have of observing their
extraordinary condition and of becoming aware of its presence with a
feeling of estrangement and relief. When the sound of music reaches the
ears of every lover he thinks: “It speaks of me, it speaks in my stead; it
knows everything!”




217.


THE ARTIST.—The Germans wish to be transported by the artist into a state
of dreamy passion; by his aid the Italians wish to rest from their real
passions; the French wish him to give them an opportunity of showing their
judgment and of making speeches. So let us be just!




218.


TO DEAL LIKE AN ARTIST WITH ONE’S WEAKNESSES.—If we must positively have
weaknesses and come in the end to look upon them as laws beyond ourselves,
I wish that everybody may be possessed of as much artistic capacity as
will enable him to set off his virtues by means of his weaknesses, and to
make us, through his weaknesses, desirous of acquiring his virtues: a
power which great musicians have possessed in quite an exceptional degree.
How frequently do we notice in Beethoven’s music a coarse, dogmatic, and
impatient tone; in Mozart, the joviality of an honest man, whose heart and
mind have not overmuch to give us; in Richard Wagner, an abrupt and
aggressive restlessness, in the midst of which, just as the most patient
listener is on the point of losing his temper, the composer regains his
powers, and likewise the others. Through their very weaknesses, these
musicians have created in us an ardent desire for their virtues, and have
given us a palate which is ten times more sensitive to every note of this
tuneful intellect, tuneful beauty, and tuneful goodness.




219.


DECEIT IN HUMILIATION.—By your foolishness you have done a great wrong to
your neighbour and destroyed his happiness irretrievably—and then, having
overcome your vanity, you humble yourself before him, surrender your
foolishness to his contempt, and fancy that, after this difficult scene,
which is an exceedingly painful one for you, everything has been set
right, that your own voluntary loss of honour compensates your neighbour
for the injury you have done to his happiness. With this feeling you take
your leave comforted, believing that your virtue has been re-established.

Your neighbour, however, suffers as intensely as before. He finds nothing
to comfort him in the fact that you have been irrational and have told him
so: on the contrary, he remembers the painful appearance you presented to
him when you were disparaging yourself in his presence—it is as if another
wound had been inflicted on him. He does not think of revenging himself,
however; and cannot conceive how a proper balance can be struck between
you and him. In point of fact, you have been acting that scene for
yourself and before yourself: you invited a witness to be present, not on
his account, but on your own—don’t deceive yourself!




220.


DIGNITY AND TIMIDITY.—Ceremonies, official robes and court dresses, grave
countenances, solemn aspects, the slow pace, involved speech—everything,
in short, known as dignity—are all pretences adopted by those who are
timid at heart: they wish to make themselves feared (themselves or the
things they represent). The fearless (_i.e._ originally those who
naturally inspire others with awe) have no need of dignity and ceremonies:
they bring into repute—or, still more, into ill-repute—honesty and
straightforward words and bearing, as characteristics of their
self-confident awefulness.




221.


THE MORALITY OF SACRIFICE.—The morality which is measured by the spirit of
sacrifice is that of a semi-civilised state of society. Reason in this
instance gains a hard-fought and bloody victory within the soul; for there
are powerful contrary instincts to be overcome. This cannot be brought
about without the cruelty which the sacrifices to cannibal gods demand.




222.


WHERE FANATICISM IS TO BE DESIRED.—Phlegmatic natures can be rendered
enthusiastic only by being fanaticised.




223.


THE DREADED EYE.—Nothing is dreaded more by artists, poets, and writers
than the eye which sees through their little deceptions and subsequently
notices how often they have stopped at the boundary where the paths branch
off either to innocent delight in themselves or to the straining after
effect; the eye which checks them when they try to sell little things
dear, or when they try to exalt and adorn without being exalted
themselves; the eye which, despite all the artifices of their art, sees
the thought as it first presented itself to them, perhaps as a charming
vision of light, perhaps also, however, as a theft from the whole world,
or as an everyday conception which they had to expand, contract, colour,
wrap up, and spice, in order to make something out of it, instead of the
thought making something out of them.—Oh, this eye, which sees in your
work all your restlessness, inquisitiveness, and covetousness, your
imitation and exaggeration (which is only envious imitation) which knows
both your blush of shame and your skill in concealing it from others and
interpreting it to yourselves!




224.


THE “EDIFYING” ELEMENT IN OUR NEIGHBOUR’S MISFORTUNE.—He is in distress,
and straightway the “compassionate” ones come to him and depict his
misfortune to him. At last they go away again, satisfied and elevated,
after having gloated over the unhappy man’s misfortune and their own, and
spent a pleasant Sunday afternoon.




225.


TO BE QUICKLY DESPISED.—A man who speaks a great deal, and speaks quickly,
soon sinks exceedingly low in our estimation, even when he speaks
rationally—not only to the extent that he annoys us personally, but far
lower. For we conjecture how great a burden he has already proved to many
other people, and we thus add to the discomfort which he causes us all the
contempt which we presume he has caused to others.




226.


RELATIONS WITH CELEBRITIES.—_A._ But why do you shun this great man?—_B._
I should not like to misunderstand him. Our defects are incompatible with
one another: I am short-sighted and suspicious, and he wears his false
diamonds as willingly as his real ones.




227.


THE CHAIN-WEARERS.—Beware of all those intellects which are bound in
chains! clever women, for example, who have been banished by fate to
narrow and dull surroundings, amid which they grow old. True, there they
lie in the sun, apparently lazy and half-blind; but at every unknown step,
at everything unexpected, they start up to bite: they revenge themselves
on everything that has escaped their kennel.




228.


REVENGE IN PRAISE.—Here we have a written page which is covered with
praise, and you call it flat; but when you find out that revenge is
concealed in this praise you will find it almost too subtle, and you will
experience a great deal of pleasure in its numerous delicate and bold
strokes and similes. It is not the man himself, but his revenge, which is
so subtle, rich, and ingenious: he himself is scarcely aware of it.




229.


PRIDE.—Ah, not one of you knows the feeling of the tortured man after he
has been put to the torture, when he is being carried back to his cell,
and his secret with him!—he still holds it in a stubborn and tenacious
grip. What know ye of the exultation of human pride?




230.


“UTILITARIAN.”—At the present time men’s sentiments on moral things run in
such labyrinthic paths that, while we demonstrate morality to one man by
virtue of its utility, we refute it to another on account of this utility.




231.


ON GERMAN VIRTUE.—How degenerate in its taste, how servile to dignities,
ranks, uniforms, pomp, and splendour must a nation have been, when it
began to consider the simple as the bad, the simple man (_schlicht_) as
the bad man (_schlecht_)! We should always oppose the moral bumptiousness
of the Germans with this one little word “bad,” and nothing else.




232.


FROM A DISPUTE.—_A._ Friend, you have talked yourself hoarse.—_B._ Then I
am refuted, so let’s drop the subject.




233.


THE “CONSCIENTIOUS” ONES.—Have you noticed the kind of men who attach the
greatest value to the most scrupulous conscientiousness? Those who are
conscious of many mean and petty sentiments, who are anxiously thinking of
and about themselves, are afraid of others, and are desirous of concealing
their inmost feelings as far as possible. They endeavour to impose upon
themselves by means of this strict conscientiousness and rigorousness of
duty, and by the stern and harsh impression which others, especially their
inferiors, cannot fail to receive of them.




234.


DREAD OF FAME.—_A._ The endeavour to avoid one’s renown, the intentional
offending of one’s panegyrists, the dislike of hearing opinions about
one’s self, and all through fear of renown: instances like these are to be
met with; they actually exist—believe it or not!—_B._ They are found, no
doubt! They exist! A little patience, Sir Arrogance!




235.


REFUSING THANKS.—We are perfectly justified in refusing a request, but it
is never right to refuse thanks—or, what comes to the same thing, to
accept them coldly and conventionally. This gives deep offence—and why?




236.


PUNISHMENT.—A strange thing, this punishment of ours! It does not purify
the criminal; it is not a form of expiation; but, on the contrary, it is
even more defiling than the crime itself.




237.


PARTY GRIEVANCES.—In almost every party there is a ridiculous, but
nevertheless somewhat dangerous grievance. The sufferers from it are those
who have long been the faithful and honourable upholders of the doctrine
propagated by the party, and who suddenly remark that one day a much
stronger figure than themselves has got the ear of the public. How can
they bear being reduced to silence? So they raise their voices, sometimes
changing their notes.




238.


STRIVING FOR GENTLENESS.—When a vigorous nature has not an inclination
towards cruelty, and is not always preoccupied with itself; it
involuntarily strives after gentleness—this is its distinctive
characteristic. Weak natures, on the other hand, have a tendency towards
harsh judgments—they associate themselves with the heroes of the contempt
of mankind, the religious or philosophical traducers of existence, or they
take up their position behind strict habits and punctilious “callings”: in
this way they seek to give themselves a character and a kind of strength.
This is likewise done quite involuntarily.




239.


A HINT TO MORALISTS.—Our musicians have made a great discovery. They have
found out that interesting ugliness is possible even in their art; this is
why they throw themselves with such enthusiastic intoxication into this
ocean of ugliness, and never before has it been so easy to make music. It
is only now that we have got the general, dark-coloured background, upon
which every luminous ray of fine music, however faint, seems tinged with
golden emerald lustre; it is only now that we dare to inspire our audience
with feelings of impetuosity and indignation, taking away their breath, so
to speak, in order that we may afterwards, in an interval of restful
harmony, inspire them with a feeling of bliss which will be to the general
advantage of a proper appreciation of music.

We have discovered the contrast: it is only now that the strongest effects
are possible—and cheap. No one bothers any more about good music. But you
must hurry up! When any art has once made this discovery, it has but a
short space of time to live.—Oh, if only our thinkers could probe into the
depths of the souls of our musicians when listening to their music! How
long we must wait until we again have an opportunity of surprising the
inward man in the very act of his evil doing, and his innocence of this
act! For our musicians have not the slightest suspicion that it is their
own history, the history of the disfigurement of the soul, which they are
transposing into music. In former times a good musician was almost forced
by the exigencies of his art to become a good man—and now!




240.


THE MORALITY OF THE STAGE.—The man who imagines that the effect of
Shakespeare’s plays is a moral one, and that the sight of Macbeth
irresistibly induces us to shun the evil of ambition, is mistaken, and he
is mistaken once more if he believes that Shakespeare himself thought so.
He who is truly obsessed by an ardent ambition takes delight in beholding
this picture of himself; and when the hero is driven to destruction by his
passion, this is the most pungent spice in the hot drink of this delight.
Did the poet feel this in another way? How royally and with how little of
the knave in him does his ambitious hero run his course from the moment of
his great crime! It is only from this moment that he becomes
“demoniacally” attractive, and that he encourages similar natures to
imitate him.—There is something demoniacal here: something which is in
revolt against advantage and life, in favour of a thought and an impulse.
Do you think that Tristan and Isolde are warnings against adultery, merely
because adultery has resulted in the death of both of them? This would be
turning poets upside down, these poets who, especially Shakespeare, are in
love with the passions in themselves, and not less so with the readiness
for death which they give rise to: this mood in which the heart no more
clings to life than a drop of water does to the glass. It is not the guilt
and its pernicious consequences which interests these poets—Shakespeare as
little as Sophocles (in the _Ajax_, _Philoctetes_, _Œdipus_)—however easy
it might have been in the cases just mentioned to make the guilt the lever
of the play, it was carefully avoided by the poets.

In the same way the tragic poet by his images of life does not wish to set
us against life. On the contrary, he exclaims; “It is the charm of charms,
this exciting, changing, and dangerous existence of ours, so often gloomy
and so often bathed in sun! Life is an adventure—whichever side you may
take in life it will always retain this character!”—Thus speaks the poet
of a restless and vigorous age, an age which is almost intoxicated and
stupefied by its superabundance of blood and energy, in an age more evil
than our own: and this is why it is necessary for us to adapt and
accommodate ourselves first to the purpose of a Shakespearian play, that
is, by misunderstanding it.




241.


FEAR AND INTELLIGENCE.—If that which is now expressly maintained is true,
viz. that the cause of the black pigment of the skin must not be sought in
light, might this phenomenon perhaps be the ultimate effect of frequent
fits of passion accumulated for century after century (and an afflux of
blood under the skin)? while in other and more intelligent races the
equally frequent spasms of fear and blanching may have resulted in the
white colour of the skin?—For the degree of timidity is the standard by
which the intelligence may be measured; and the fact that men give
themselves up to blind anger is an indication that their animal nature is
still near the surface, and is longing for an opportunity to make its
presence felt once more. Thus a brownish-grey would probably be the
primitive colour of man—something of the ape and the bear, as is only
proper.




242.


INDEPENDENCE.—Independence (which in its weakest form is called “freedom
of thought”) is the type of resignation which the tyrannical man ends by
accepting—he who for a long time had been looking for something to govern,
but without finding anything except himself.




243.


THE TWO COURSES.—When we endeavour to examine the mirror in itself we
discover in the end that we can detect nothing there but the things which
it reflects. If we wish to grasp the things reflected we touch nothing in
the end but the mirror.—This is the general history of knowledge.




244.


DELIGHT IN REALITY.—Our present inclination to take delight in reality—for
almost every one of us possesses it—can only be explained by the fact that
we have taken delight in the unreal for such a long time that we have got
tired of it. This inclination in its present form, without choice and
without refinement, is not without danger—its least danger is its want of
taste.




245.


THE SUBTLETY OF THE FEELING OF POWER.—Napoleon was greatly mortified at
the fact that he could not speak well, and he did not deceive himself in
this respect: but his thirst for power, which never despised the slightest
opportunity of showing itself, and which was still more subtle than his
subtle intellect, led him to speak even worse than he might have done. It
was in this way that he revenged himself upon his own mortification (he
was jealous of all his emotions because they possessed power) in order to
enjoy his autocratic pleasure.

He enjoyed this pleasure a second time in respect to the ears and judgment
of his audience, as if it were good enough for them to be addressed in
this way. He even secretly enjoyed the thought of bewildering their
judgment and good taste by the thunder and lightning of his highest
authority—that authority which lies in the union of power and genius—while
both his judgment and his good taste held fast proudly and indifferently
to the truth that he did not speak well.—Napoleon, as the complete and
fully developed type of a single instinct, belongs to ancient humanity,
whose characteristic—the simple construction and ingenious development and
realisation of a single motive or a small number of motives—may be easily
enough recognised.




246.


ARISTOTLE AND MARRIAGE.—Insanity makes its appearance in the children of
great geniuses, and stupidity in those of the most virtuous—so says
Aristotle. Did he mean by this to invite exceptional men to marry?




247.


THE ORIGIN OF A BAD TEMPERAMENT.—Injustice and instability in the minds of
certain men, their disordered and immoderate manner, are the ultimate
consequences of the innumerable logical inexactitudes, superficialities,
and hasty conclusions of which their ancestors have been guilty. Men of a
good temperament, on the other hand, are descended from solid and
meditative races which have set a high value upon reason—whether for
praiseworthy or evil purposes is of no great importance.




248.


DISSIMULATION AS A DUTY.—Kindness has been best developed by the long
dissimulation which endeavoured to appear as kindness: wherever great
power existed the necessity for dissimulation of this nature was
recognised—it inspires security and confidence, and multiplies the actual
sum of our physical power. Falsehood, if not actually the mother, is at
all events the nurse of kindness. In the same way, honesty has been
brought to maturity by the need for a semblance of honesty and integrity:
in hereditary aristocracies. The persistent exercise of such a
dissimulation ends by bringing about the actual nature of the thing
itself: the dissimulation in the long run suppresses itself, and organs
and instincts are the unexpected fruits in this garden of hypocrisy.




249.


WHO, THEN, IS EVER ALONE.—The faint-hearted wretch does not know what it
means to be lonely. An enemy is always prowling in his tracks. Oh, for the
man who could give us the history of that subtle feeling called
loneliness!




250.


NIGHT AND MUSIC.—It was only at night time, and in the semi-obscurity of
dark forests and caverns, that the ear, the organ of fear, was able to
develop itself so well, in accordance with the mode of living of the
timid—that is, the longest human epoch which has ever yet existed: when it
is clear daylight the ear is less necessary. Hence the character of music,
which is an art of night and twilight.




251.


STOICAL.—The Stoic experiences a certain sense of cheerfulness when he
feels oppressed by the ceremonial which he has prescribed for himself: he
enjoys himself then as a ruler.




252.


CONSIDER.—The man who is being punished is no longer he who has done the
deed. He is always the scapegoat.




253.


APPEARANCE.—Alas! what must be best and most resolutely proved is
appearance itself; for only too many people lack eyes to observe it. But
it is so tiresome!




254.


THOSE WHO ANTICIPATE.—What distinguishes poetic natures, but is also a
danger for them, is their imagination, which exhausts itself in advance:
which anticipates what will happen or what may happen, which enjoys and
suffers in advance, and which at the final moment of the event or the
action is already fatigued. Lord Byron, who was only too familiar with
this, wrote in his diary: “If ever I have a son he shall choose a very
prosaic profession—that of a lawyer or a pirate.”




255.


CONVERSATION ON MUSIC.—

_A._ What do you say to that music?

_B._ It has overpowered me, I can say nothing about it. Listen! there it
is beginning again.

_A._ All the better! This time let us do our best to overpower it. Will
you allow me to add a few words to this music? and also to show you a
drama which perhaps at your first hearing you did not wish to observe?

_B._ Very well, I have two ears and even more if necessary; move up closer
to me.

_A._ We have not yet heard what he wishes to say to us, up to the present
he has only promised to say something—something as yet unheard, so he
gives us to understand by his gestures, for they are gestures. How he
beckons! How he raises himself up! How he gesticulates! and now the moment
of supreme tension seems to have come to him: two more fanfares, and he
will present us with his superb and splendidly-adorned theme, rattling, as
it were, with precious stones.

Is it a handsome woman? or a beautiful horse? Enough, he looks about him
as if enraptured, for he must assemble looks of rapture. It is only now
that his theme quite pleases him: it is only now that he becomes inventive
and risks new and audacious features. How he forces out his theme! Ah,
take care!—he not only understands how to adorn, but also how to gloss it
over! Yes, he knows what the colour of health is, and he knows how to make
it up,—he is more subtle in his self-consciousness than I thought. And now
he is convinced that he has convinced his hearers; he sets off his
impromptus as if they were the most important things under the sun: he
points to his theme with an insolent finger as if it were too good for
this world.—Ah, how distrustful he is! He is afraid we may get tired!—that
is why he buries his melody in sweet notes.—Now he even appeals to our
coarser senses that he may excite us and thus get us once again into his
power. Listen to him as he conjures up the elementary force of tempestuous
and thundering rhythms!

And now that he sees that these things have captivated our attention,
strangle us, and almost overwhelm us, he once again ventures to introduce
his theme amidst this play of the elements in order to convince us,
confused and agitated as we are, that our confusion and agitation are the
effects of his miraculous theme. And from now onwards his hearers believe
in him: as soon as the theme is heard once more they are reminded of its
thrilling elementary effects. The theme profits by this recollection—now
it has become demoniacal! What a connoisseur of the soul he is! He gains
command over us by all the artifices of the popular orator. But the music
has stopped again.

_B._ And I am glad of it; for I could no longer bear listening to your
observations! I should prefer ten times over to let myself be deceived to
knowing the truth once after your version.

_A._ That is just what I wished to hear from you. The best people now are
just like you: you are quite content to let yourselves be deceived. You
come here with coarse, lustful ears, and you do not bring with you your
conscience of the art of listening. On the way here you have cast away
your intellectual honesty, and thus you corrupt both art and artists.
Whenever you applaud and cheer you have in your hands the conscience of
the artists—and woe to art if they get to know that you cannot distinguish
between innocent and guilty music! I do not indeed refer to “good” and
“bad” music—we meet with both in the two kinds of music mentioned! but I
call innocent music that which thinks only of itself and believes only in
itself, and which on account of itself has forgotten the world at
large—this spontaneous expression of the most profound solitude which
speaks of itself and with itself, and has entirely forgotten that there
are listeners, effects, misunderstandings and failures in the world
outside. In short, the music which we have just heard is precisely of this
rare and noble type; and everything I said about it was a fable—pardon my
little trick if you will!

_B._ Oh, then you like _this_ music, too? In that case many sins shall be
forgiven you!




256.


THE HAPPINESS OF THE EVIL ONES.—These silent, gloomy, and evil men possess
a peculiar something which you cannot dispute with them—an uncommon and
strange enjoyment in the _dolce far niente_; a sunset and evening rest,
such as none can enjoy but a heart which has been too often devoured,
lacerated, and poisoned by the passions.




257.


WORDS PRESENT IN OUR MINDS.—We always express our thoughts with those
words which lie nearest to hand. Or rather, if I may reveal my full
suspicion; at every moment we have only the particular thought for the
words that are present in our minds.




258.


FLATTERING THE DOG.—You have only to stroke this dog’s coat once, and he
immediately splutters and gives off sparks like any other flatterer—and he
is witty in his own way. Why should we not endure him thus?




259.


THE QUONDAM PANEGYRIST.—“He has now become silent now in regard to me,
although he knows the truth and could tell it; but it would sound like
vengeance—and he values truth so highly, this honourable man!”




260.


THE AMULET OF DEPENDENT MEN.—He who is unavoidably dependent upon some
master ought to possess something by which he can inspire his master with
fear, and keep him in check: integrity, for example, or probity, or an
evil tongue.




261.


WHY SO SUBLIME!—Oh, I know them well this breed of animals! Certainly it
pleases them better to walk on two legs “like a god”—but it pleases me
better when they fall back on their four feet. This is incomparably more
natural for them!




262.


THE DEMON OF POWER.—Neither necessity nor desire, but the love of power,
is the demon of mankind. You may give men everything possible—health,
food, shelter, enjoyment—but they are and remain unhappy and capricious,
for the demon waits and waits; and must be satisfied. Let everything else
be taken away from men, and let this demon be satisfied, and then they
will nearly be happy—as happy as men and demons can be; but why do I
repeat this? Luther has already said it, and better than I have done, in
the verses:


    “And though they take our life,
    Goods, honour, children, wife,
    Yet is their profit small,
    These things shall vanish all,
    The Kingdom it remaineth.”


The Kingdom! there it is again!(7)




263.


CONTRADICTION INCARNATE AND ANIMATED.—There is a physiological
contradiction in what is called genius: genius possesses on the one hand a
great deal of savage disorder and involuntary movement, and on the other
hand a great deal of superior activity in this movement. Joined to this a
genius possesses a mirror which reflects the two movements beside one
another, and within one another, but often opposed to one another. Genius
in consequence of this sight is often unhappy, and if it feels its
greatest happiness in creating, it is because it forgets that precisely
then, with the highest determinate activity, it does something fantastic
and irrational (such is all art) and cannot help doing it.




264.


DECEIVING ONE’S SELF.—Envious men with a discriminating intuition
endeavour not to become too closely acquainted with their rivals in order
that they may feel themselves superior to them.




265.


THERE IS A TIME FOR THE THEATRE.—When the imagination of a people begins
to diminish, there arises the desire to have its legends represented on
the stage: it then tolerates the coarse substitutes for imagination. In
the age of the epic rhapsodist, however, the theatre itself, and the actor
dressed up as a hero, form an obstacle in the path of the imagination
instead of acting as wings for it—too near, too definite, too heavy, and
with too little of dreamland and the flights of birds about them.




266.


WITHOUT CHARM.—He lacks charm and knows it. Ah, how skilful he is in
masking this defect! He does it by a strict virtue, gloomy looks, and
acquired distrust of all men, and of existence itself; by coarse jests, by
contempt for a more refined manner of living, by pathos and pretensions,
and by a cynical philosophy—yea, he has even developed into a character
through the continual knowledge of his deficiency.




267.


WHY SO PROUD?—A noble character is distinguished from a vulgar one by the
fact that the latter has not at ready command a certain number of habits
and points of view like the former: fate willed that they should not be
his either by inheritance or by education.




268.


THE ORATOR’S SCYLLA AND CHARYBDIS.—How difficult it was in Athens to speak
in such a way as to win over the hearers to one’s cause without repelling
them at the same time by the form in which one’s speech was cast, or
withdrawing their attention from the cause itself by this form! How
difficult it still is to write thus in France!




269.


SICK PEOPLE AND ART.—For all kinds of sadness and misery of soul we should
first of all try a change of diet and severe manual labour; but in such
cases men are in the habit of having recourse to mental intoxicants, to
art for example—which is both to their own detriment and that of art! Can
you not see that when you call for art as sick people you make the artists
themselves sick?




270.


APPARENT TOLERATION.—Those are good, benevolent, and rational words on and
in favour of science, but, alas! I see behind these words your toleration
of science. In a corner of your inmost mind you think, in spite of all you
say, that _it is not necessary for you_, that it shows magnanimity on your
part to admit and even to advocate it, more especially as science on its
part does not exhibit this magnanimity in regard to your opinion! Do you
know that you have no right whatever to exercise this toleration? that
this condescension of yours is an even coarser disparagement of science
than any of that open scorn which a presumptuous priest or artist might
allow himself to indulge in towards science? What is lacking in you is a
strong sense for everything that is true and actual, you do not feel
grieved and worried to find that science is in contradiction to your own
sentiments, you are unacquainted with that intense desire for knowledge
ruling over you like a law, you do not feel a duty in the need of being
present with your own eyes wherever knowledge exists, and to let nothing
that is “known” escape you. You do not know that which you are treating
with such toleration! and it is only because you do not know it that you
can succeed in adopting such a gracious attitude towards it. You,
forsooth, would look upon science with hatred and fanaticism if it for
once cast its shining and illuminating glance upon you! What does it
matter to us, then, if you do exhibit toleration—and towards a phantom!
and not even towards us!—and what do we matter!




271.


FESTIVE MOODS.—It is exactly those men who aspire most ardently towards
power who feel it indescribably agreeable to be overpowered! to sink
suddenly and deeply into a feeling as into a whirlpool! To suffer the
reins to be snatched out of their hand, and to watch a movement which
takes them they know not where! Whatever or whoever may be the person or
thing that renders us this service, it is nevertheless a great service: we
are so happy and breathless, and feel around us an exceptional silence, as
if we were in the most central bowels of the earth. To be for once
entirely powerless! the plaything of the elementary forces of nature!
There is a restfulness in this happiness, a casting away of the great
burden, a descent without fatigue, as if one had been given up to the
blind force of gravity.

This is the dream of the mountain climber, who, although he sees his goal
far above him, nevertheless falls asleep on the way from utter exhaustion,
and dreams of the happiness of the contrast—this effortless rolling down
hill. I describe happiness as I imagine it to be in our present-day
society, the badgered, ambitious society of Europe and America. Now and
then they _wish_ to fall back into impotence—this enjoyment is offered
them by wars, arts, religions, and geniuses. When a man has temporarily
abandoned himself to a momentary impression which devours and crushes
everything—and this is the modern festive mood—he afterwards becomes
freer, colder, more refreshed, and more strict, and again strives
tirelessly after the contrary of all this: power.




272.


THE PURIFICATION OF RACES.—It is probable that there are no pure races,
but only races which have become purified, and even these are extremely
rare.(8) We more often meet with crossed races, among whom, together with
the defects in the harmony of the bodily forms (for example when the eyes
do not accord with the mouth) we necessarily always find defects of
harmony in habits and appreciations. (Livingstone heard some one say, “God
created white and black men, but the devil created the half-castes.”)

Crossed races are always at the same time crossed cultures and crossed
moralities: they are, as a rule, more evil, cruel, and restless. Purity is
the final result of innumerable adjustments, absorptions, and
eliminations; and progress towards purity in a race is shown by the fact
that the latent strength in the race is more and more restricted to a few
special functions, whilst it formerly had to carry out too many and often
contradictory things. Such a restriction will always have the appearance
of an impoverishment, and must be judged with prudence and moderation. In
the long run, however, when the process of purification has come to a
successful termination, all those forces which were formerly wasted in the
struggle between the disharmonious qualities are at the disposal of the
organism as a whole, and this is why purified races have always become
stronger and more beautiful.—The Greeks may serve us as a model of a
purified race and culture!—and it is to be hoped that some day a pure
European race and culture may arise.




273.


PRAISE.—Here is some one who, you perceive, wishes to praise you: you bite
your lips and brace up your heart: Oh, that _that_ cup might go hence! But
it does not, it comes! let us therefore drink the sweet impudence of the
panegyrist, let us overcome the disgust and profound contempt that we feel
for the innermost substance of his praise, let us assume a look of
thankful joy—for he wished to make himself agreeable to us! And now that
it is all over we know that he feels greatly exalted; he has been
victorious over us. Yes, and also over himself, the villain!—for it was no
easy matter for him to wring this praise from himself.




274.


THE RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES OF MAN.—We human beings are the only creatures
who, when things do not go well with us, can blot ourselves out like a
clumsy sentence,—whether we do so out of honour for humanity or pity for
it, or on account of the aversion we feel towards ourselves.




275.


THE TRANSFORMED BEING.—Now he becomes virtuous; but only for the sake of
hurting others by being so. Don’t pay so much attention to him.




276.


HOW OFTEN! HOW UNEXPECTED!—How may married men have some morning awakened
to the fact that their young wife is dull, although she thinks quite the
contrary! not to speak of those wives whose flesh is willing but whose
intellect is weak!




277.


WARM AND COLD VIRTUES.—Courage is sometimes the consequence of cold and
unshaken resolution, and at other times of a fiery and reckless élan. For
these two kinds of courage there is only the one name!—but how different,
nevertheless, are cold virtues and warm virtues! and the man would be a
fool who could suppose that “goodness” could only be brought about by
warmth, and no less a fool he who would only attribute it to cold. The
truth is that mankind has found both warm and cold courage very useful,
yet not often enough to prevent it from setting them both in the category
of precious stones.




278.


THE GRACIOUS MEMORY.—A man of high rank will do well to develop a gracious
memory, that is, to note all the good qualities of people and remember
them particularly; for in this way he holds them in an agreeable
dependence. A man may also act in this way towards himself: whether or not
he has a gracious memory determines in the end the superiority,
gentleness, or distrust with which he observes his own inclinations and
intentions, and finally even the nature of these inclinations and
intentions.




279.


WHEREIN WE BECOME ARTISTS.—He who makes an idol of some one endeavours to
justify himself in his own eyes by idealising this person: in other words,
he becomes an artist that he may have a clear conscience. When he suffers
he does not suffer from his ignorance, but from the lie he has told
himself to make himself ignorant. The inmost misery and desire of such a
man—and all passionate lovers are included in this category—cannot be
exhausted by normal means.




280.


CHILDLIKE.—Those who live like children—those who have not to struggle for
their daily bread, and do not think that their actions have any ultimate
signification—remain childlike.




281.


OUR EGO DESIRES EVERYTHING.—It would seem as if men in general were only
inspired by the desire to possess: languages at least would permit of this
supposition, for they view past actions from the standpoint that we have
been put in possession of something—“I _have_ spoken, struggled,
conquered”—as if to say, I am now in possession of my word, my struggle,
my victory. How greedy man appears in this light! he cannot even let the
past escape him: he even wishes to _have_ it still!




282.


DANGER IN BEAUTY.—This woman is beautiful and intelligent: alas, how much
more intelligent she would have become if she had not been beautiful!




283.


DOMESTIC AND MENTAL PEACE.—Our habitual mood depends upon the mood in
which we maintain our habitual entourage.




284.


NEW THINGS AS OLD ONES.—Many people seem irritated when something new is
told them: they feel the ascendancy which the news has given to the person
who has learnt it first.




285.


WHAT ARE THE LIMITS OF THE EGO.—The majority of people take under their
protection, as it were, something that they know, as if the fact of
knowing it was sufficient in itself to make it their property. The
acquisitiveness of the egoistic feeling has no limits: Great men speak as
if they had behind them the whole of time, and had placed themselves at
the head of this enormous host; and good women boast of the beauty of
their children, their clothes, their dog, their physician, or their native
town, but the only thing they dare not say is, “I am all that.” _Chi non
ha non è_—as they say in Italy.




286.


DOMESTIC ANIMALS, PETS AND THE LIKE.—Could there be anything more
repugnant than the sentimentality which is shown to plants and animals—and
this on the part of a creature who from the very beginning has made such
ravages among them as their most ferocious enemy,—and who ends by even
claiming affectionate feelings from his weakened and mutilated victims!
Before this kind of “nature” man must above all be serious, if he is any
sort of a thinking being.




287.


TWO FRIENDS.—They were friends once, but now they have ceased to be so,
and both of them broke off the friendship at the same time, the one
because he believed himself to be too greatly misunderstood, and the other
because he thought he was known too intimately—and both were wrong! For
neither of them knew himself well enough.




288.


THE COMEDY OF THE NOBLE SOULS.—Those who cannot succeed in exhibiting a
noble and cordial familiarity endeavour to let the nobleness of their
nature be seen by their exercise of reserve and strictness, and a certain
contempt for familiarity, as if their strong sense of confidence were
ashamed to show itself.




289.


WHERE WE MAY SAY NOTHING AGAINST VIRTUE.—Among cowards it is thought bad
form to say anything against bravery, for any expression of this kind
would give rise to some contempt; and unfeeling people are irritated when
anything is said against pity.(9)




290.


A WASTE.—We find that with irritable and abrupt people their first words
and actions generally afford no indication of their actual character—they
are prompted by circumstances, and are to some extent simply reproductions
of the spirit of these circumstances. Because, however, as the words have
been uttered and the deeds done, the subsequent words and deeds,
indicating the real nature of such people, have often to be used to
reconcile, amend, or extinguish the former.




291.


ARROGANCE.—Arrogance is an artificial and simulated pride; but it is
precisely the essential nature of pride to be incapable of artifice,
simulation, or hypocrisy—and thus arrogance is the hypocrisy of the
incapacity for hypocrisy, a very difficult thing, and one which is a
failure in most cases. But if we suppose that, as most frequently happens,
the presumptuous person betrays himself, then a treble annoyance falls to
his lot: people are angry with him because he has endeavoured to deceive
them, and because he wished to show himself superior to them, and finally
they laugh at him because he failed in both these endeavours. How
earnestly, therefore, should we dissuade our fellow-men from arrogance!




292.


A SPECIES OF MISCONCEPTION.—When we hear somebody speak it is often
sufficient for his pronunciation of a single consonant (the letter r, for
example) to fill us with doubts as to the honesty of his feelings: we are
not accustomed to this particular pronunciation, and should have to make
it ourselves as it were arbitrarily—it sounds “forced” to us. This is the
domain of the greatest possible misconception: and it is the same with the
style of a writer who has certain habits which are not the habits of
everybody. His “artlessness” is felt as such only by himself, and
precisely in regard to that which he himself feels to be “forced” (because
he has yielded in this matter to the prevailing fashion and to so called
“good taste”), he may perhaps give pleasure and inspire confidence.




293.


THANKFUL.—One superfluous grain of gratitude and piety makes one suffer as
from a vice—in spite of all one’s independence and honesty one begins to
have a bad conscience.




294.


SAINTS.—It is the most sensual men who find it necessary to avoid women
and to torture their bodies.




295.


THE SUBTLETY OF SERVING.—One of the most subtle tasks in the great art of
serving is that of serving a more than usually ambitious man, who, indeed,
is excessively egoistic in all things, but is entirely adverse to being
thought so (this is part of his ambition). He requires that everything
shall be according to his own will and humour, yet in such a way as to
give him the appearance of always having sacrificed himself, and of rarely
desiring anything for himself alone.




296.


DUELLING.—I think it a great advantage, said some one, to be able to fight
a duel—if, of course, it is absolutely necessary; for I have at all times
brave companions about me. The duel is the last means of thoroughly
honourable suicide left to us; but it is unfortunately a circuitous means,
and not even a certain one.




297.


PERNICIOUS.—A young man can be most surely corrupted when he is taught to
value the like-minded more highly than the differently minded.




298.


HERO-WORSHIP AND ITS FANATICS.—The fanatic of an ideal that possesses
flesh and blood is right as a rule so long as he assumes a negative
attitude, and he is terrible in his negation: he knows what he denies as
well as he knows himself, for the simple reason that he comes thence, that
he feels at home there, and that he has always the secret fear of being
forced to return there some day. He therefore wishes to make his return
impossible by the manner of his negation. As soon as he begins to affirm,
however, he partly shuts his eyes and begins to idealise (frequently
merely for the sake of annoying those who have stayed at home). We might
say that there was something artistic about this—agreed, but there is also
something dishonest about it.

The idealist of a person imagines this person to be so far from him that
he can no longer see him distinctly, and then he travesties that which he
can just perceive into something “beautiful”—that is to say, symmetrical,
vaguely outlined, uncertain. Since he wishes to worship from afar that
ideal which floats on high in the distance, he finds it essential to build
a temple for the object of his worship as a protection from the _profanum
vulgus_. He brings into this temple for the object of his worship all the
venerable and sanctified objects which he still possesses, so that his
ideal may benefit by their charm, and that, nourished in this way, it may
grow more and more divine. In the end he really succeeds in forming his
God, but, alas for him! there is some one who knows how all this has been
done, viz. his intellectual conscience; and there is also some one who,
quite unconsciously, begins to protest against these things, viz. the
deified one himself, who, in consequence of all this worship, praise, and
incense, now becomes completely unbearable and shows himself in the most
obvious and dreadful manner to be non-divine, and only too human.

In a case like this there is only one means of escape left for such a
fanatic; he patiently suffers himself and his fellows to be maltreated,
and interprets all this misery _in maiorem dei gloriam_ by a new kind of
self-deceit and noble falsehood. He takes up a stand against himself, and
in doing so experiences, as an interpreter and ill-treated person,
something like martyrdom—and in this way he climbs to the height of his
conceit. Men of this kind to be found, for example, in the entourage of
Napoleon: indeed, perhaps it may have been he who inspired the soul of his
century with that romantic prostration in the presence of the “genius” and
the “hero,” which was so foreign to the spirit of rationalism of the
nineteenth century—a man about whom even Byron was not ashamed to say that
he was a “worm compared with such a being.” (The formulæ of this
prostration have been discovered by Thomas Carlyle, that arrogant old
muddle-head and grumbler, who spent his long life in trying to romanticise
the common sense of his Englishmen: but in vain!)




299.


THE APPEARANCE OF HEROISM.—Throwing ourselves in the midst of our enemies
may be a sign of cowardice.




300.


CONDESCENDING TOWARDS THE FLATTERER.—It is the ultimate prudence of
insatiably ambitious men not only to conceal their contempt for man which
the sight of flatterers causes them: but also to appear even condescending
to them, like a God who can be nothing if not condescending.




301.


“STRENGTH OF CHARACTER.”—“What I have said once I will do”—This manner of
thinking is believed to indicate great strength of character. How many
actions are accomplished, not because they have been selected as being the
most rational, but because at the moment when we thought of them they
influenced our ambition and vanity by some means or another, so that we do
not stop until we have blindly carried them out. Thus they strengthen in
us our belief in our character and our good conscience, in short our
strength; whilst the choice of the most rational acts possible brings
about a certain amount of scepticism towards ourselves, and thus
encourages a sense of weakness in us.




302.


ONCE, TWICE, AND THRICE TRUE.—Men lie unspeakably and often, but they do
not think about it afterwards, and generally do not believe in it.




303.


THE PASTIME OF THE PSYCHOLOGIST.—He thinks he knows me, and fancies
himself to be subtle and important when he has any kind of relations with
me; and I take care not to undeceive him. For in such a case I should
suffer for it, while now he wishes me well because I arouse in him a
feeling of conscious superiority.—There is another, who fears that I think
I know him, and feels a sense of inferiority at this. As a result he
behaves in a timid and vacillating manner, in my presence, and endeavours
to mislead me in regard to himself so that he may regain an ascendancy
over me.




304.


THE DESTROYERS OF THE WORLD.—When some men fail to accomplish what they
desire to do they exclaim angrily, “May the whole world perish!” This
odious feeling is the height of envy which reasons thus: because I cannot
have one thing the whole world in general must have nothing! the whole
world shall not exist!




305.


GREED.—When we set out to buy something our greed increases with the
cheapness of the object—Why? Is it because the small differences in price
make up the little eye of greed?




306.


THE GREEK IDEAL.—What did the Greeks admire in Ulysses? Above all his
capacity for lying and for taking a shrewd and dreadful revenge, his being
equal to circumstances, his appearing to be nobler than the noblest when
necessary, his ability to be everything he desired, his heroic
pertinacity, having all means within his command, possessing genius—the
genius of Ulysses is an object of the admiration of the gods, they smile
when they think of it—all this is the Greek ideal! What is most remarkable
about it is that the contradiction between seeming and being was not felt
in any way, and that as a consequence it could not be morally estimated.
Were there ever such accomplished actors?




307.


FACTA! YES, FACTA FICTA!—The historian need not concern himself with
events which have actually happened, but only those which are supposed to
have happened; for none but the latter have produced an effect. The same
remark applies to the imaginary heroes. His theme—this so-called
world-history—what is it but opinions on imaginary actions and their
imaginary motives, which in their turn give rise to opinions and actions
the reality of which, however, is at once evaporated, and is only
effective as vapour,—a continual generating and impregnating of phantoms
above the dense mists of unfathomable reality. All historians record
things which have never existed, except in imagination.




308.


NOT TO UNDERSTAND TRADE IS NOBLE.—To sell one’s virtue only at the highest
price, or even to carry on usury with it as a teacher, a civil servant, or
an artist, for instance, brings genius and talent down to the level of the
common tradesman. We must be careful not to be clever with our wisdom!




309.


FEAR AND LOVE.—The general knowledge of mankind has been furthered to a
greater extent by fear than by love; for fear endeavours to find out who
the other is, what he can do, and what he wants: it would be dangerous and
prejudicial to be deceived on this point. On the other hand, love is
induced by its secret craving to discover as many beautiful qualities as
possible in the loved object, or to raise this loved object as high as
possible: it is a joy and an advantage to love to be deceived in this
way—and this is why it does it.




310.


GOOD-NATURED PEOPLE.—Good-natured people have acquired their character
from the continual fear of foreign attacks in which their ancestors
lived,—these ancestors, who were in the habit of mitigating and
tranquillising, humbling themselves, preventing, distracting, flattering,
and apologising, concealing their grief and anger, and preserving an
unruffled countenance,—and they ultimately bequeathed all this delicate
and well-formed mechanism to their children and grandchildren. These
latter, thanks to their more favourable lot, did not experience this
feeling of dread, but they nevertheless continue in the same groove.




311.


THE SO-CALLED SOUL.—The sum-total of those internal movements which come
naturally to men, and which they can consequently set in motion readily
and gracefully, is called the soul—men are looked upon as void of soul
when they let it be seen that their inward emotions are difficult and
painful to them.




312.


THE FORGETFUL ONES.—In outbursts of passion and the delusions of dreams
and madness, man rediscovers his own primitive history, and that of
humanity: animality and its savage grimaces. For once his memory stretches
back into the past, while his civilised condition is developed from the
forgetfulness of these primitive experiences, that is to say, from the
failing of this memory. He who, as a forgetful man of a higher nature, has
always remained aloof from these things, does not understand men—but it is
an advantage if from time to time there are individuals who do not
understand men, individuals who are, so to speak, created from the divine
seed and born of reason.




313.


THE FRIEND WHOM WE WANT NO LONGER.—That friend whose hopes we cannot
satisfy we should prefer to have as an enemy.




314.


IN THE SOCIETY OF THINKERS.—In the midst of the ocean of becoming we
adventurers and birds of passage wake up on an island no larger than a
small boat, and here we look round us for a moment with as much haste and
curiosity as possible; for how quickly may some gale blow us away or some
wave sweep over the little island and leave nothing of us remaining! Here,
however, upon this little piece of ground we meet with other birds of
passage and hear of still earlier ones,—and thus we live together for one
precious minute of recognition and divining, amid the cheerful fluttering
of wings and joyful chirping, and then adventure in spirit far out on the
ocean, feeling no less proud than the ocean itself.




315.


PARTING WITH SOMETHING.—To give up some of our property, or to waive a
right, gives pleasure when it denotes great wealth. Generosity may be
placed in this category.




316.


WEAK SECTS.—Those sects which feel that they will always remain weak hunt
up a few intelligent individual adherents, wishing to make up in quality
what they lack in quantity. This gives rise to no little danger for
intelligent minds.




317.


THE JUDGMENT OF THE EVENING.—The man who meditates upon his day’s and
life’s work when he has reached the end of his journey and feels weary,
generally arrives at a melancholy conclusion; but this is not the fault of
the day or his life, but of weariness.—In the midst of creative work we do
not take time, as a rule, to meditate upon life and existence, nor yet in
the midst of our pleasures: but if by a chance this did happen once we
should no longer believe him to be right who waited for the seventh day
and for repose to find everything that exists very beautiful.—He had
missed the right moment.




318.


BEWARE OF SYSTEMISERS!—There is a certain amount of comedy about
systemisers: in trying to complete a system and to round off its horizon
they have to try to let their weaker qualities appear in the same style as
their stronger ones.—They wish to represent complete and uniformly strong
natures.




319.


HOSPITALITY.—The object of hospitality is to paralyse all hostile feeling
in a stranger. When we cease to look upon strangers as enemies,
hospitality diminishes; it flourishes so long as its evil presupposition
does.




320.


THE WEATHER.—An exceptional and uncertain state of the weather makes men
suspicious even of one another: at the same time they come to like
innovations, for they must diverge from their accustomed habits. This is
why despots like those countries where the weather is moral.




321.


DANGER IN INNOCENCE.—Innocent people become easy victims in all
circumstances because their lack of knowledge prevents them from
distinguishing between moderation and excess, and from being betimes on
their guard against themselves. It is as a result of this that innocent,
that is, ignorant young women become accustomed to the frequent enjoyment
of sexual intercourse, and feel the want of it very much in later years
when their husbands fall ill or grow prematurely old. It is on account of
this harmless and orthodox conception, as if frequent sexual intercourse
were right and proper, that they come to experience a need which
afterwards exposes them to the severest tribulations, and even worse.

Considering the matter, however, from a higher and more general point of
view, whoever loves a man or a thing without knowing him or it, falls a
prey to something which he would not love if he could see it. In all cases
where experience, precautions, and prudent steps are required, it is the
innocent man who will be most thoroughly corrupted, for he has to drink
with closed eyes the dregs and most secret poison of everything put before
him. Let us consider the procedure of all princes, churches, sects,
parties, and corporations: Is not the innocent man always used as the
sweetest bait for the most dangerous and wicked traps?—just as Ulysses
availed himself of the services of the innocent Neoptolemos to cheat the
old and infirm anchorite and ogre of Lemnos out of his bow and arrows.
Christianity, with its contempt for the world, has made ignorance a
virtue—innocence, perhaps because the most frequent result of this
innocence is precisely, as I have indicated above, guilt, the sense of
guilt, and despair: In other words, a virtue which leads to Heaven by the
circuitous route of Hell; for only then can the gloomy propylæa of
Christian salvation be thrown open, and only then is the promise of a
posthumous second innocence effective. This is one of the finest
inventions of Christianity!




322.


LIVING WITHOUT A DOCTOR WHEN POSSIBLE.—It seems to me that a sick man
lives more carelessly when he is under medical observation than when he
attends to his own health. In the first case it suffices for him to obey
strictly all his Doctor’s prescriptions; but in the second case he gives
more attention to the ultimate object of these prescriptions, namely, his
health; he observes much more, and submits himself to a more severe
discipline than the directions of his physician would compel him to do.

All rules have this effect: they distract our attention from the
fundamental aim of the rule, and make us more thoughtless. But to what
heights of immoderation and destruction would men have risen if ever they
had completely and honestly left everything to the Godhead as to their
physician, and acted in accordance with the words “as God will”!




323.


THE DARKENING OF THE HEAVENS.—Do you know the vengeance of those timid
people who behave in society just as if they had stolen their limbs? The
vengeance of the humble, Christian-like souls who just manage to slink
quietly through the world? The vengeance of those who always judge
hastily, and are as hastily said to be in the wrong? The vengeance of all
classes of drunkards, for whom the morning is always the most miserable
part of the day? and also of all kinds of invalids and sick and depressed
people who have no longer the courage to become healthy?

The number of these petty vengeful people, and, even more, the number of
their petty acts of revenge, is incalculable. The air around us is
continually whizzing with the discharged arrows of their malignity, so
that the sun and the sky of their lives become darkened thereby,—and,
alas! not only theirs, but more often ours and other men’s: and this is
worse than the frequent wounds which they make on our skins and hearts. Do
we not occasionally deny the existence of the sun and sky merely because
we have not seen them for so long?—Well then, solitude! because of this,
solitude!




324.


THE PSYCHOLOGY OF THE ACTOR.—It is the blissful illusion of all great
actors to imagine that the historical personages whom they are
representing were really in the same state of mind as they themselves are
when interpreting them—but in this they are very much mistaken. Their
powers of imitation and divination, which they would fain exhibit as a
clairvoyant faculty, penetrate only far enough to explain gestures,
accent, and looks, and in general anything exterior: that is, they can
grasp the shadow of the soul of a great hero, statesman, or warrior, or of
an ambitious, jealous, or desperate person—they penetrate fairly near to
the soul, but they never reach the inmost spirit of the man they are
imitating.

It would, indeed, be a fine thing to discover that instead of thinkers,
psychologists, or experts we required nothing but clairvoyant actors to
throw light upon the essence of any condition. Let us never forget,
whenever such pretensions are heard, that the actor is nothing but an
ideal ape—so much of an ape is he, indeed, that he is not capable of
believing in the “essence” or in the “essential”: everything becomes for
him merely performance, intonation, attitude, stage, scenery, and public.




325.


LIVING AND BELIEVING APART.—The means of becoming the prophet and
wonder-worker of one’s age are the same to-day as in former times: one
must live apart, with little knowledge, some ideas, and a great deal of
presumption—we then finish by believing that mankind cannot do without us,
because it is clear that we can do without it. When we are inspired with
this belief we find faith. Finally, a piece of advice to him who needs it
(it was given to Wesley by Boehler, his spiritual teacher): “Preach faith
until you have it; then you will preach it because you have it!”




326.


KNOWING OUR CIRCUMSTANCES.—We may estimate our powers, but not our power.
Not only do circumstances conceal it from us and show it to us time about,
but they even exaggerate or diminish it. We must consider ourselves as
variable quantities whose productive capacity may in favourable
circumstances reach the greatest possible heights: we must therefore
reflect upon these circumstances, and spare no pains in studying them.




327.


A FABLE.—The Don Juan of knowledge—no philosopher or poet has yet
succeeded in discovering him. He is wanting in love for the things he
recognises, but he possesses wit, a lust for the hunting after knowledge,
and the intrigues in connection with it, and he finds enjoyment in all
these, even up to the highest and most distant stars of knowledge—until at
last there is nothing left for him to pursue but the absolutely injurious
side of knowledge, just as the drunkard who ends by drinking absinthe and
aquafortis. That is why last of all he feels a longing for hell, for this
is the final knowledge which seduces him. Perhaps even this would
disappoint him, as all things do which one knows! and then he would have
to stand still for all eternity, a victim to eternal deception, and
transformed into his enemy, the Stony Guest, who longs for an evening meal
of knowledge which will never more fall to his share! for the whole world
of things will not have another mouthful left to offer to these hungry
men.




328.


WHAT IDEALISTIC THEORIES DISCLOSE.—We are most certain to find idealistic
theories among unscrupulously practical men; for such men stand in need of
the lustre of these theories for the sake of their reputation. They adopt
them instinctively without by any means feeling hypocritical in doing
so—no more hypocritical than Englishmen with their Christianity and their
Sabbath-keeping. On the other hand, contemplative natures who have to keep
themselves on the guard against all kinds of fantasies and who dread to be
reputed as enthusiasts, are only to be satisfied with hard realistic
theories: they take possession of them under the same instinctive
compulsion without thereby losing their honesty.




329.


THE CALUMNIATORS OF CHEERFULNESS.—People who have been deeply wounded by
the disappointments of life look with suspicion upon all cheerfulness as
if it were something childish and puerile, and revealed a lack of common
sense that moves them to pity and tenderness, such as one would experience
when seeing a dying child caressing his toys on his death-bed. Such men
appear to see hidden graves under every rose; rejoicings, tumult, and
cheerful music appear to them to be the voluntary illusions of a man who
is dangerously ill and yet wishes to take a momentary draught from the
intoxicating cup of life. But this judgment about cheerfulness is merely
the reflection of the latter on the dark background of weariness and
ill-health: in itself it is something touching, irrational, and pitiable,
even childlike and puerile, but connected with that second childhood which
follows in the train of old age, and is the harbinger of death.




330.


NOT YET ENOUGH!—It is not sufficient to prove a case, we must also tempt
or raise men to it: hence the wise man must learn to convey his wisdom;
and often in such a manner that it may sound like foolishness!




331.


RIGHT AND LIMITS.—Asceticism is the proper mode of thinking for those who
must extirpate their carnal instincts, because these are ferocious
beasts,—but only for such people!




332.


THE BOMBASTIC STYLE.—An artist who does not wish to put his elevated
feelings into a work and thus unburden himself, but who rather wishes to
impart these feelings of elevation to others, becomes pompous, and his
style becomes the bombastic style.




333.


“HUMANITY.”—We do not consider animals as moral beings. But do you think
that animals consider us as moral beings? An animal which had the power of
speech once said: “Humanity is a prejudice from which we animals at least
do not suffer.”




334.


THE CHARITABLE MAN.—The charitable man gratifies a need of his own inward
feelings when doing good. The stronger this need is the less does such a
man try to put himself in the place of those who serve the purpose of
gratifying his desire: he becomes indelicate and sometimes even offensive.
(This remark applies to the benevolence and charity of the Jews, which, as
is well known, is somewhat more effusive than that of other peoples.)(10)




335.


THAT LOVE MAY BE FELT AS LOVE.—We must be honest towards ourselves, and
must know ourselves very well indeed, to be able to practise upon others
that humane dissimulation known as love and kindness.




336.


WHAT ARE WE CAPABLE OF?—A man who had been tormented all day by his wicked
and malicious son slew him in the evening, and then with a sigh of relief
said to the other members of his family: “Well now we can sleep in peace.”
Who knows what circumstances might drive us to!




337.


“NATURAL.”—To be natural, at least in his deficiencies, is perhaps the
last praise that can be bestowed upon an artificial artist, who is in
other respects theatrical and half genuine. Such a man will for this very
reason boldly parade his deficiencies.




338.


CONSCIENCE-SUBSTITUTE.—One man is another’s conscience: and this is
especially important when the other has none else.




339.


THE TRANSFORMATION OF DUTIES.—When our duties cease to be difficult of
accomplishment, and after long practice become changed into agreeable
delights and needs, then the rights of others to whom our duties (though
now our inclinations) refer change into something else: that is, they
become the occasion of pleasant feelings for us. Henceforth the “other,”
by virtue of his rights, becomes an object of love to us instead of an
object of reverence and awe as formerly. It is our own pleasure we seek
when we recognise and maintain the extent of his power. When the Quietists
no longer felt their Christian faith as a burden, and experienced their
delight only in God, they took the motto: “Do all to the glory of God.”
Whatever they performed henceforth in this sense was no longer a
sacrifice, it was as much as to say, “Everything for the sake of our
pleasure.” To demand that duty should be always rather burdensome, as Kant
does, is to demand that it shall never develop into a habit or custom.
There is a small residue of ascetic cruelty in this demand.




340.


APPEARANCES ARE AGAINST THE HISTORIAN.—It is a sufficiently demonstrated
fact that human beings come from the womb; nevertheless when children grow
up and stand by the side of their mother this hypothesis appears very
absurd—all appearances are against it.




341.


THE ADVANTAGE OF IGNORANCE.—Some one has said that in his childhood he
experienced such a contempt for the caprices and whims of a melancholy
temperament that, until he had grown up and had become a middle-aged man,
he did not know what his own temperament was like: it was precisely a
melancholy temperament. He declared that this was the best of all possible
kinds of ignorance.




342.


DO NOT BE DECEIVED!—Yes, he examined the matter from every side and you
think him to be a man of profound knowledge. But he only wishes to lower
the price—he wants to buy it!




343.


A MORAL PRETENCE.—You refuse to be dissatisfied with yourselves or to
suffer from yourselves, and this you call your moral tendency! Very well;
another may perhaps call it your cowardice! One thing, however, is
certain, and that is that you will never take a trip round the world (and
you yourselves are this world), and you will always remain in yourselves
an accident and a clod on the face of the earth! Do you fancy that we who
hold different views from you are merely exposing ourselves out of pure
folly to the journey through our own deserts, swamps, and glaciers, and
that we are voluntarily choosing grief and disgust with ourselves, like
the Stylites?




344.


SUBTLETY IN MISTAKES.—If Homer, as they say, sometimes nodded, he was
wiser than all the artists of sleepless ambition. We must allow admirers
to stop for a time and take breath by letting them find fault now and
then; for nobody can bear an uninterruptedly brilliant and untiring
excellence—and instead of doing good such a master would merely become a
taskmaster, whom we hate while he precedes us.




345.


OUR HAPPINESS IS NOT AN ARGUMENT EITHER PRO OR CON.—Many men are only
capable of a small share of happiness: and it is not an argument against
their wisdom if this wisdom is unable to afford them a greater degree of
happiness, any more than it is an argument against medical skill that many
people are incurable, and others always ailing. May every one have the
good fortune to discover the conception of existence which will enable him
to realise _his_ greatest share of happiness! though this will not
necessarily prevent his life from being miserable and not worth envying.




346.


THE ENEMIES OF WOMEN.—“Woman is our enemy”—The man who speaks to men in
this way exhibits an unbridled lust which not only hates itself but also
its means.




347.


THE SCHOOL OF THE ORATOR.—When a man has kept silence for a whole year he
learns to stop chattering, and to discourse instead. The Pythagoreans were
the best statesmen of their age.




348.


THE FEELING OF POWER.—Note the distinction: the man who wishes to acquire
the feeling of power seizes upon any means, and looks upon nothing as too
petty which can foster this feeling. He who already possesses power,
however, has grown fastidious and refined in his tastes; few things can be
found to satisfy him.




349.


NOT SO VERY IMPORTANT.—When we are present at a death-bed there regularly
arises in us a thought that we immediately suppress from a false sense of
propriety: the thought that the act of dying is less important than the
customary veneration of it would wish us to believe, and that the dying
man has probably lost in his life things which were more important than he
is now about to lose by his death. In this case the end is certainly not
the goal.




350.


THE BEST WAY TO PROMISE.—When a man makes a promise it is not merely the
word that promises, but what lies unexpressed behind the word. Words
indeed weaken a promise by discharging and using up a power which forms
part of that power which promises. Therefore shake hands when making a
promise, but put your finger on your lips—in this way you will make the
safest promises.




351.


GENERALLY MISUNDERSTOOD.—In conversation we sometimes observe people
endeavouring to set a trap in which to catch others—not out of
evil-mindedness, as one might suppose, but from delight in their own
shrewdness. Others again prepare a joke so that some one else may utter
it, they tie the knot so that others may undo it: not out of goodwill, as
might be supposed, but from wickedness, and their contempt for coarse
intellects.




352.


CENTRE.—The feeling, “I am the centre of the world,” forcibly comes to us
when we are unexpectedly overtaken by disgrace: we then feel as if we were
standing dazed in the midst of a surge, and dazzled by the glance of one
enormous eye which gazes down upon us from all sides and looks us through
and through.




353.


FREEDOM OF SPEECH.—“The truth must be told, even if the world should be
shivered in fragments”—so cries the eminent and grandiloquent Fichte.—Yes,
certainly; but we must have it first.—What he really means, however, is
that each man should speak his mind, even if everything were to be turned
upside down. This point, however, is open to dispute.




354.


THE COURAGE FOR SUFFERING.—Such as we now are, we are capable of bearing a
tolerable amount of displeasure, and our stomach is suited to such
indigestible food. If we were deprived of it, indeed, we should perhaps
think the banquet of life insipid; and if it were not for our willingness
to suffer pain we should have to let too many pleasures escape us!




355.


ADMIRERS.—The man who admires up to the point that he would be ready to
crucify any one who did not admire, must be reckoned among the
executioners of his party—beware of shaking hands with him, even when he
belongs to your own side.




356.


THE EFFECT OF HAPPINESS.—The first effect of happiness is the feeling of
power, and this feeling longs to manifest itself, whether towards
ourselves or other men, or towards ideas and imaginary beings. Its most
common modes of manifestation are making presents, derision, and
destruction—all three being due to a common fundamental instinct.




357.


MORAL MOSQUITOES.—Those moralists who are lacking in the love of
knowledge, and who are only acquainted with the pleasure of giving pain,
have the spirit and tediousness of provincials. Their pastime, as cruel as
it is lamentable, is to observe their neighbour with the greatest possible
closeness, and, unperceived, to place a pin in such position that he
cannot help pricking himself with it. Such men have preserved something of
the wickedness of schoolboys, who cannot amuse themselves without hunting
and torturing either the living or the dead.




358.


REASONS AND THEIR UNREASON.—You feel a dislike for him, and adduce
innumerable reasons for this dislike, but I only believe in your dislike
and not in your reasons! You flatter yourself by adducing as a rational
conclusion, both to yourself and to me, that which happens to be merely a
matter of instinct.




359.


APPROVING OF SOMETHING.—We approve of marriage in the first place because
we are not yet acquainted with it, in the second place because we have
accustomed ourselves to it, and in the third place because we have
contracted it—that is to say, in most cases. And yet nothing has been
proved thereby in favour of the value of marriage in general.




360.


NO UTILITARIANS.—“Power which has greatly suffered both in deed and in
thought is better than powerlessness which only meets with kind
treatment”—such was the Greek way of thinking. In other words, the feeling
of power was prized more highly by them than any mere utility or fair
renown.




361.


UGLY IN APPEARANCE.—Moderation appears to itself to be quite beautiful: it
is unaware of the fact that in the eyes of the immoderate it seems coarse
and insipid, and consequently ugly.




362.


DIFFERENT IN THEIR HATRED.—There are men who do not begin to hate until
they feel weak and tired: in other respects they are fair-minded and
superior. Others only begin to hate when they see an opportunity for
revenge: in other respects they carefully avoid both secret and open
wrath, and overlook it whenever there is any occasion for it.




363.


MEN OF CHANCE.—It is pure hazard which plays the essential part in every
invention, but most men do not meet with this hazard.




364.


CHOICE OF ENVIRONMENT.—We should beware of living in an environment where
we are neither able to maintain a dignified silence nor to express our
loftier thoughts, so that only our complaints and needs and the whole
story of our misery are left to be told. We thus become dissatisfied with
ourselves and with our surroundings, and to the discomfort which brings
about our complaints we add the vexation which we feel at always being in
the position of grumblers. But we should, on the contrary, live in a place
where we should be ashamed to speak of ourselves and where it would not be
necessary to do so.—Who, however, thinks of such things, or of the choice
in such things? We talk about our “fate,” brace up our shoulders, and
sigh, “Unfortunate Atlas that I am!”




365.


VANITY.—Vanity is the dread of appearing to be original. Hence it is a
lack of pride, but not necessarily a lack of originality.




366.


THE CRIMINAL’S GRIEF.—The criminal who has been found out does not suffer
because of the crime he has committed, but because of the shame and
annoyance caused him either by some blunder which he has made or by being
deprived of his habitual element; and keen discernment is necessary to
distinguish such cases. Every one who has had much experience of prisons
and reformatories is astonished at the rare instances of really genuine
“remorse,” and still more so at the longing shown to return to the old
wicked and beloved crime.




367.


ALWAYS APPEARING HAPPY.—When, in the Greece of the third century,
philosophy had become a matter of public emulation, there were not a few
philosophers who became happy through the thought that others who lived
according to different principles, and suffered from them, could not but
feel envious of their happiness. They thought they could refute these
other people with their happiness better than anything else, and to
achieve this object they were content to appear to be always happy; but,
following this practice, they were obliged to become happy in the long
run! This, for example, was the case of the cynics.




368.


THE CAUSE OF MUCH MISUNDERSTANDING.—The morality of increasing nervous
force is joyful and restless; the morality of diminishing nervous force,
towards evening, or in invalids and old people, is passive, calm, patient,
and melancholy, and not rarely even gloomy. In accordance with what we may
possess of one or other of these moralities, we do not understand that
which we lack, and we often interpret it in others as immorality and
weakness.




369.


RAISING ONE’S SELF ABOVE ONE’S OWN LOWNESS.—“Proud” fellows they are
indeed, those who, in order to establish a sense of their own dignity and
importance, stand in need of other people whom they may tyrannise and
oppress—those whose powerlessness and cowardice permits some one to make
sublime and furious gestures in their presence with impunity, so that they
require the baseness of their surroundings to raise themselves for one
short moment above their own baseness!—For this purpose one man requires a
dog, another a friend, a third a wife, a fourth a party, a fifth, again,
one very rarely to be met with, a whole age.




370.


TO WHAT EXTENT THE THINKER LOVES HIS ENEMY.—Make it a rule never to
withhold or conceal from yourself anything that may be thought against
your own thoughts. Vow it! This is the essential requirement of honest
thinking. You must undertake such a campaign against yourself every day. A
victory and a conquered position are no longer your concern, but that of
truth—and your defeat also is no longer your concern!




371.


THE EVIL OF STRENGTH.—Violence as the outcome of passion, for example, of
rage, must be understood from the physiological point of view as an
attempt to avoid an imminent fit of suffocation. Innumerable acts arising
from animal spirits and vented upon others are simply outlets for getting
rid of sudden congestion by a violent muscular exertion: and perhaps the
entire “evil of strength” must be considered from this point of view.
(This evil of strength wounds others unintentionally—it must find an
outlet somewhere; while the evil of weakness wishes to wound and to see
signs of suffering.)




372.


TO THE CREDIT OF THE CONNOISSEUR.—As soon as some one who is no
connoisseur begins to pose as a judge we should remonstrate, whether it is
a male or female whipper-snapper. Enthusiasm or delight in a thing or a
human being is not an argument; neither is repugnance or hatred.




373.


TREACHEROUS BLAME.—“He has no knowledge of men” means in the mouth of some
“He does not know what baseness is”; and in the mouths of others, “He does
not know the exception and knows only too well what baseness means.”




374.


THE VALUE OF SACRIFICE.—The more the rights of states and princes are
questioned as to their right to sacrifice the individual (for example, in
the administration of justice, conscription, etc.), the more will the
value of self-sacrifice rise.




375.


SPEAKING TOO DISTINCTLY.—There are several reasons why we articulate our
words too distinctly: in the first place, from distrust of ourselves when
using a new and unpractised language; secondly, when we distrust others on
account of their stupidity or their slowness of comprehension. The same
remark applies to intellectual matters: our communications are sometimes
too distinct, too painful, because if it were otherwise those to whom we
communicate our ideas would not understand us. Consequently the perfect
and easy style is only permissible when addressing a perfect audience.




376.


PLENTY OF SLEEP.—What can we do to arouse ourselves when we are weary and
tired of our ego? Some recommend the gambling table, others Christianity,
and others again electricity. But the best remedy, my dear hypochondriac,
is, and always will be, plenty of sleep in both the literal and figurative
sense of the word. Thus another morning will at length dawn upon us. The
knack of worldly wisdom is to find the proper time for applying this
remedy in both its forms.




377.


WHAT WE MAY CONCLUDE FROM FANTASTIC IDEALS.—Where our deficiencies are,
there also is our enthusiasm. The enthusiastic principle “love your
enemies” had to be invented by the Jews, the best haters that ever
existed; and the finest glorifications of chastity have been written by
those who in their youth led dissolute and licentious lives.




378.


CLEAN HANDS AND CLEAN WALLS.—Do not paint the picture either of God or the
devil on your walls: for in so doing you will spoil your walls as well as
your surroundings.(11)




379.


PROBABLE AND IMPROBABLE.—A woman secretly loved a man, raised him far
above her, and said to herself hundreds of times in her inmost heart, “If
a man like that were to love me, I should look upon it as a condescension
before which I should have to humble myself in the dust.”—And the man
entertained the same feelings towards the woman, and in his inmost heart
he felt the very same thought. When at last both their tongues were
loosened, and they had communicated their most secret thoughts to one
another, a deep and meditative silence ensued. Then the woman said in a
cold voice: “The thing is quite clear! We are neither of us that which we
loved! If you are what you say you are, and nothing more, then I have
humbled myself in vain and loved you; the demon misled me as well as you.”
This very probable story never happens—and why doesn’t it?




380.


TESTED ADVICE.—Of all the means of consolation there is none so
efficacious for him who has need of it as the declaration that in his case
no consolation can be given. This implies such a distinction that the
afflicted person will at once raise his head again.




381.


KNOWING ONE’S “INDIVIDUALITY”.—We too often forget that in the eyes of
strangers who see us for the first time we are quite different beings from
what we consider ourselves to be—in most cases we exhibit nothing more
than one particular characteristic which catches the eye of the stranger,
and determines the impression we make on him. Thus the most peaceful and
fair-minded man, if only he has a big moustache, may, as it were, repose
in the shade of this moustache; for ordinary eyes will merely see in him
the accessory of a big moustache, that is to say, a military, irascible,
and occasionally violent character, and will act accordingly.




382.


GARDENERS AND GARDENS.—Wet dreary days, loneliness, and unkind words give
rise within us to conclusions like fungi; some morning we find that they
have grown up in front of us we know not whence, and there they scowl at
us, sullen and morose. Woe to the thinker who instead of being the
gardener of his plants, is merely the soil from which they spring.




383.


THE COMEDY OF PITY.—However much we may feel for an unhappy friend of
ours, we always act with a certain amount of insincerity in his presence:
we refrain from telling him everything we think, and how we think it, with
all the circumspection of a doctor standing by the bedside of a patient
who is seriously ill.




384.


CURIOUS SAINTS.—There are pusillanimous people who have a bad opinion of
everything that is best in their works, and who at the same time interpret
and comment upon them badly: but also, by a kind of revenge, they
entertain a bad opinion of the sympathy of others, and do not believe in
sympathy at all; they are ashamed to appear to be carried away from
themselves, and feel a defiant comfort in appearing or becoming
ridiculous.—States of soul like these are to be found in melancholy
artists.




385.


VAIN PEOPLE.—We are like shop-windows, where we ourselves are constantly
arranging, concealing, or setting in the foreground those supposed
qualities which others attribute to us—in order to deceive _ourselves_.




386.


PATHETIC AND NAÏVE.—It may be a very vulgar habit to let no opportunity
slip of assuming a pathetic air for the sake of the enjoyment to be
experienced in imagining the spectator striking his breast and feeling
himself to be small and miserable. Consequently it may also be the
indication of a noble mind to make fun of pathetic situations, and to
behave in an undignified manner in them. The old, warlike nobility of
France possessed that kind of distinction and delicacy.




387.


A REFLECTION BEFORE MARRIAGE.—Supposing she loved me, what a burden she
would be to me in the long run! and supposing that she did not love me,
what a much greater burden she would be to me in the long run! We have to
choose between two different kinds of burdens; therefore let us marry.




388.


RASCALITY WITH A GOOD CONSCIENCE.—It is exceedingly annoying to be cheated
in small bargains in certain countries,—in the Tyrol, for
example,—because, in addition to the bad bargain, we are compelled to
accept the evil countenance and coarse greediness of the man who has
cheated us, together with his bad conscience and his hostile feeling
against us. At Venice, on the other hand, the cheater is highly delighted
at his successful fraud, and is not in the least angry with the man he has
cheated—nay, he is even inclined to show him some kindness, and above all
to have a hearty laugh with him if he likes.—In short, one must possess
wit and a good conscience in order to be a knave, and this will almost
reconcile the cheated one with the cheat.(12)




389.


RATHER TOO AWKWARD.—Good people who are too awkward to be polite and
amiable promptly endeavour to return an act of politeness by an important
service, or by a contribution beyond their power. It is touching to see
them timidly producing their gold coins when others have offered them
their gilded coppers!




390.


HIDING ONE’S INTELLIGENCE.—When we surprise some one in the act of hiding
his intelligence from us we call him evil: the more so if we suspect that
it is his civility and benevolence which have induced him to do so.




391.


THE EVIL MOMENT.—Lively dispositions only lie for a moment: after this
they have deceived themselves, and are convinced and honest.




392.


THE CONDITION OF POLITENESS.—Politeness is a very good thing, and really
one of the four chief virtues (although the last), but in order that it
may not result in our becoming tiresome to one another the person with
whom I have to deal must be either one degree more or less polite than
I—otherwise we should never get on, and the ointment would not only anoint
us, but would cement us together.




393.


DANGEROUS VIRTUES.—“He forgets nothing, but forgives everything”—wherefore
he shall be doubly detested, for he causes us double shame by his memory
and his magnanimity.




394.


WITHOUT VANITY.—Passionate people think little of what others may think;
their state of mind raises them above vanity.




395.


CONTEMPLATION.—In some thinkers the contemplative state peculiar to a
thinker is always the consequence of a state of fear, in others always of
desire. In the former, contemplation thus seems allied to the feeling of
security, in the latter to the feeling of surfeit—in other words, the
former are spirited in their mood, the latter over-satiated and neutral.




396.


HUNTING.—The one is hunting for agreeable truths, the other for
disagreeable ones. But even the former takes greater pleasure in the hunt
than in the booty.




397.


EDUCATION.—Education is a continuation of procreation, and very often a
kind of supplementary varnishing of it.




398.


HOW TO RECOGNISE THE CHOLERIC.—Of two persons who are struggling together,
or who love and admire one another, the more choleric will always be at a
disadvantage. The same remark applies to two nations.




399.


SELF-EXCUSE.—Many men have the best possible right to act in this or that
way; but as soon as they begin to excuse their actions we no longer
believe that they are right—and we are mistaken.




400.


MORAL PAMPERING.—There are tender, moral natures who are ashamed of all
their successes and feel remorse after every failure.




401.


DANGEROUS UNLEARNING.—We begin by unlearning to love others, and end by
finding nothing lovable in ourselves.




402.


ANOTHER FORM OF TOLERATION.—“To remain a minute too long on red-hot coals
and to be burnt a little does no harm either to men or to chestnuts. The
slight bitterness and hardness makes the kernel all the sweeter.”—Yes,
this is your opinion, you who enjoy the taste! You sublime cannibals!




403.


DIFFERENT PRIDE.—Women turn pale at the thought that their lover may not
be worthy of them; Men turn pale at the thought that they may not be
worthy of the women they love. I speak of perfect women, perfect men. Such
men, who are self-reliant and conscious of power at ordinary times, grow
diffident and doubtful of themselves when under the influence of a strong
passion. Such women, on the other hand, though always looking upon
themselves as the weak and devoted sex, become proud and conscious of
their power in the great exception of passion,—they ask: “Who then is
worthy of me?”




404.


WHEN WE SELDOM DO JUSTICE.—Certain men are unable to feel enthusiasm for a
great and good cause without committing a great injustice in some other
quarter: this is _their_ kind of morality.




405.


LUXURY.—The love of luxury is rooted in the depths of a man’s heart: it
shows that the superfluous and immoderate is the sea wherein his soul
prefers to float.




406.


TO IMMORTALISE.—Let him who wishes to kill his opponent first consider
whether by doing so he will not immortalise him in himself.




407.


AGAINST OUR CHARACTER.—If the truth which we have to utter goes against
our character—as very often happens—we behave as if we had uttered a
clumsy falsehood, and thus rouse suspicion.




408.


WHERE A GREAT DEAL OF GENTLENESS IS NEEDED.—Many natures have only the
choice of being either public evil-doers or secret sorrow-bearers.




409.


ILLNESS.—Among illness are to be reckoned the premature approach of old
age, ugliness, and pessimistic opinions—three things that always go
together.




410.


TIMID PEOPLE.—It is the awkward and timid people who easily become
murderers: they do not understand slight but sufficient means of defence
or revenge, and their hatred, owing to their lack of intelligence and
presence of mind, can conceive of no other expedient than destruction.




411.


WITHOUT HATRED.—You wish to bid farewell to your passion? Very well, but
do so without hatred against it! Otherwise you have a second passion.—The
soul of the Christian who has freed himself from sin is generally ruined
afterwards by the hatred for sin. Just look at the faces of the great
Christians! they are the faces of great haters.




412.


INGENIOUS AND NARROW-MINDED.—He can appreciate nothing beyond himself, and
when he wishes to appreciate other people he must always begin by
transforming them into himself. In this, however, he is ingenious.




413.


PRIVATE AND PUBLIC ACCUSERS.—Watch closely the accuser and inquirer,—for
he reveals his true character; and it is not rare for this to be a worse
character than that of the victim whose crime he is investigating. The
accuser believes in all innocence that the opponent of a crime and
criminal must be by nature of good character, or at least must appear as
such—and this is why he lets himself go, that is to say, he drops his
mask.




414.


VOLUNTARY BLINDNESS.—There is a kind of enthusiastic and extreme devotion
to a person or a party which reveals that in our inmost hearts we feel
ourselves superior to this person or party, and for this reason we feel
indignant with ourselves. We blind ourselves, as it were, of our own free
will to punish our eyes for having seen too much.




415.


_REMEDIUM AMORIS._—That old radical remedy for love is now in most cases
as effective as it always was: love in return.




416.


WHERE IS OUR WORST ENEMY?—He who can look after his own affairs well, and
knows that he can do so, is as a rule conciliatory towards his adversary.
But to believe that we have right on our side, and to know that we are
incapable of defending it—this gives rise to a fierce and implacable
hatred against the opponent of our cause. Let every one judge accordingly
where his worst enemies are to be sought.




417.


THE LIMITS OF ALL HUMILITY.—Many men may certainly have attained that
humility which says _credo quia absurdum est_, and sacrifices its reason;
but, so far as I know, not one has attained to that humility which after
all is only one step further, and which says _creda quia absurdus sum_.




418.


ACTING THE TRUTH.—Many a man is truthful, not because he would be ashamed
to exhibit hypocritical feelings, but because he would not succeed very
well in inducing others to believe in his hypocrisy. In a word, he has no
confidence in his talent as an actor, and therefore prefers honestly to
act the truth.




419.


COURAGE IN A PARTY.—The poor sheep say to their bell-wether: “Only lead
us, and we shall never lack courage to follow you.” But the poor
bell-wether thinks in his heart: “Only follow me, and I shall never lack
courage to lead you.”




420.


CUNNING OF THE VICTIM.—What a sad cunning there is in the wish to deceive
ourselves with respect to the person for whom we have sacrificed
ourselves, when we give him an opportunity in which he must appear to us
as we should wish him to be!




421.


THROUGH OTHERS.—There are men who do not wish to be seen except through
the eyes of others: a wish which implies a great deal of wisdom.




422.


MAKING OTHERS HAPPY.—Why is the fact of our making others happy more
gratifying to us than all other pleasures?—Because in so doing we gratify
fifty cravings at one time. Taken separately they would, perhaps, be very
small pleasures; but when put into one hand, that hand will be fuller than
ever before—and the heart also.





BOOK V.




423.


IN THE GREAT SILENCE.—Here is the sea, here may we forget the town. It is
true that its bells are still ringing the Angelus—that solemn and foolish
yet sweet sound at the junction between day and night,—but one moment
more! now all is silent. Yonder lies the ocean, pale and brilliant; it
cannot speak. The sky is glistening with its eternal mute evening hues,
red, yellow, and green: it cannot speak. The small cliffs and rocks which
stretch out into the sea as if each one of them were endeavouring to find
the loneliest spot—they too are dumb. Beautiful and awful indeed is this
vast silence, which so suddenly overcomes us and makes our heart swell.

Alas! what deceit lies in this dumb beauty! How well could it speak, and
how evilly, too, if it wished! Its tongue, tied up and fastened, and its
face of suffering happiness—all this is but malice, mocking at your
sympathy: be it so! I do not feel ashamed to be the plaything of such
powers! but I pity thee, oh nature, because thou must be silent, even
though it be only malice that binds thy tongue: nay, I pity thee for the
sake of thy malice!

Alas! the silence deepens, and once again my heart swells within me: it is
startled by a fresh truth—it, too, is dumb; it likewise sneers when the
mouth calls out something to this beauty; it also enjoys the sweet malice
of its silence. I come to hate speaking; yea, even thinking. Behind every
word I utter do I not hear the laughter of error, imagination, and
insanity? Must I not laugh at my pity and mock my own mockery? Oh sea, oh
evening, ye are bad teachers! Ye teach man how to cease to be a man. Is he
to give himself up to you? Shall he become as you now are, pale,
brilliant, dumb, immense, reposing calmly upon himself?—exalted above
himself?




424.


FOR WHOM THE TRUTH EXISTS.—Up to the present time errors have been the
power most fruitful in consolations: we now expect the same effects from
accepted truths, and we have been waiting rather too long for them. What
if these truths could not give us this consolation we are looking for?
Would that be an argument against them? What have these truths in common
with the sick condition of suffering and degenerate men that they should
be useful to them? It is, of course, no proof against the truth of a plant
when it is clearly established that it does not contribute in any way to
the recovery of sick people. Formerly, however, people were so convinced
that man was the ultimate end of nature that they believed that knowledge
could reveal nothing that was not beneficial and useful to man—nay, there
could not, should not be, any other things in existence.

Perhaps all this leads to the conclusion that truth as an entity and a
coherent whole exists only for those natures who, like Aristotle, are at
once powerful and harmless, joyous and peaceful: just as none but these
would be in a position to seek such truths; for the others seek remedies
for themselves—however proud they may be of their intellect and its
freedom, they do not seek truth. Hence it comes about that these others
take no real joy in science, but reproach it for its coldness, dryness,
and inhumanity. This is the judgment of sick people about the games of the
healthy.—Even the Greek gods were unable to administer consolation; and
when at length the entire Greek world fell ill, this was a reason for the
destruction of such gods.




425.


WE GODS IN EXILE.—Owing to errors regarding their descent, their
uniqueness, their mission, and by claims based upon these errors, men have
again and again “surpassed themselves”; but through these same errors the
world has been filled with unspeakable suffering, mutual persecution,
suspicion, misunderstanding, and an even greater amount of individual
misery. Men have become suffering creatures in consequence of their
morals, and the sum-total of what they have obtained by those morals is
simply the feeling that they are far too good and great for this world,
and that they are enjoying merely a transitory existence on it. As yet the
“proud sufferer” is the highest type of mankind.




426.


THE COLOUR-BLINDNESS OF THINKERS.—How differently from us the Greeks must
have viewed nature, since, as we cannot help admitting, they were quite
colour-blind in regard to blue and green, believing the former to be a
deeper brown, and the latter to be yellow. Thus, for instance, they used
the same word to describe the colour of dark hair, of the corn-flower, and
the southern sea; and again they employed exactly the same expression for
the colour of the greenest herbs, the human skin, honey, and yellow
raisins: whence it follows that their greatest painters reproduced the
world they lived in only in black, white, red, and yellow. How different
and how much nearer to mankind, therefore, must nature have seemed to
them, since in their eyes the tints of mankind predominated also in
nature, and nature was, as it were, floating in the coloured ether of
humanity! (blue and green more than anything else dehumanise nature). It
is this defect which developed the playful facility that characterised the
Greeks of seeing the phenomena of nature as gods and demi-gods—that is to
say, as human forms.

Let this, however, merely serve as a simile for another supposition. Every
thinker paints his world and the things that surround him in fewer colours
than really exist, and he is blind to individual colours. This is
something more than a mere deficiency. Thanks to this nearer approach and
simplification, he imagines he sees in things those harmonies of colours
which possess a great charm, and may greatly enrich nature. Perhaps,
indeed, it was in this way that men first learnt to take delight in
viewing existence, owing to its being first of all presented to them in
one or two shades, and consequently harmonised. They practised these few
shades, so to speak, before they could pass on to any more. And even now
certain individuals endeavour to get rid of a partial colour-blindness
that they may obtain a richer faculty of sight and discernment, in the
course of which they find that they not only discover new pleasures, but
are also obliged to lose and give up some of their former ones.




427.


THE EMBELLISHMENT OF SCIENCE.—In the same way that the feeling that
“nature is ugly, wild, tedious—we must embellish it (_embellir la
nature_)”—brought about rococo horticulture, so does the view that
“science is ugly, difficult, dry, dreary and weary, we must embellish it,”
invariably gives rise to something called philosophy. This philosophy sets
out to do what all art and poetry endeavour to do, viz., giving amusement
above all else; but it wishes to do this, in conformity with its
hereditary pride, in a higher and more sublime fashion before an audience
of superior intellects. It is no small ambition to create for these
intellects a kind of horticulture, the principal charm of which—like that
of the usual gardening—is to bring about an optical illusion (by means of
temples, perspective, grottos, winding walks, and waterfalls, to speak in
similes), exhibiting science in a condensed form and in all kinds of
strange and unexpected illuminations, infusing into it as much indecision,
irrationality, and dreaminess as will enable us to walk about in it “as in
savage nature,” but without trouble and boredom.

Those who are possessed of this ambition even dream of making religion
superfluous—religion, which among men of former times served as the
highest kind of entertainment. All this is now running its course, and
will one day attain its highest tide. Even now hostile voices are being
raised against philosophy, exclaiming: “Return to science, to nature, and
the naturalness of science!” and thus an age may begin which may discover
the most powerful beauty precisely in the “savage and ugly” domains of
science, just as it is only since the time of Rousseau that we have
discovered the sense for the beauty of high mountains and deserts.




428.


TWO KINDS OF MORALISTS.—To see a law of nature for the first time, and to
see it whole (for example, the law of gravity or the reflection of light
and sound), and afterwards to explain such a law, are two different things
and concern different classes of minds. In the same way, those moralists
who observe and exhibit human laws and habits—moralists with
discriminating ears, noses, and eyes—differ entirely from those who
interpret their observations. These latter must above all be inventive,
and must possess an imagination untrammelled by sagacity and knowledge.




429.


THE NEW PASSION.—Why do we fear and dread a possible return to barbarism?
Is it because it would make people less happy than they are now? Certainly
not! the barbarians of all ages possessed more happiness than we do: let
us not deceive ourselves on this point!—but our impulse towards knowledge
is too widely developed to allow us to value happiness without knowledge,
or the happiness of a strong and fixed delusion: it is painful to us even
to imagine such a state of things! Our restless pursuit of discoveries and
divinations has become for us as attractive and indispensable as hapless
love to the lover, which on no account would he exchange for
indifference,—nay, perhaps we, too, are hapless lovers! Knowledge within
us has developed into a passion, which does not shrink from any sacrifice,
and at bottom fears nothing but its own extinction. We sincerely believe
that all humanity, weighed down as it is by the burden of this passion,
are bound to feel more exalted and comforted than formerly, when they had
not yet overcome the longing for the coarser satisfaction which
accompanies barbarism.

It may be that mankind may perish eventually from this passion for
knowledge!—but even that does not daunt us. Did Christianity ever shrink
from a similar thought? Are not love and death brother and sister? Yes, we
detest barbarism,—we all prefer that humanity should perish rather than
that knowledge should enter into a stage of retrogression. And, finally,
if mankind does not perish through some passion it will perish through
some weakness: which would we prefer? This is the main question. Do we
wish its end to be in fire and light, or in the sands?




430.


LIKEWISE HEROIC.—To do things of the worst possible odour, things of which
we scarcely dare to speak, but which are nevertheless useful and
necessary, is also heroic. The Greeks were not ashamed of numbering even
the cleansing of a stable among the great tasks of Hercules.




431.


THE OPINIONS OF OPPONENTS.—In order to measure the natural subtlety or
weakness of even the cleverest heads, we must consider the manner in which
they take up and reproduce the opinions of their adversaries, for the
natural measure of any intellect is thereby revealed. The perfect sage
involuntarily idealises his opponent and frees his inconsistencies from
all defects and accidentalities: he only takes up arms against him when he
has thus turned his opponent into a god with shining weapons.




432.


INVESTIGATOR AND ATTEMPTER.—There is no exclusive method of knowing in
science. We must deal with things tentatively, treating them by turns
harshly or justly, passionately or coldly. One investigator deals with
things like a policeman, another like a confessor, and yet a third like an
inquisitive traveller. We force something from them now by sympathy and
now by violence: the one is urged onward and led to see clearly by the
veneration which the secrets of the things inspire in him, and the other
again by the indiscretion and malice met with in the explanation of these
secrets. We investigators, like all conquerors, explorers, navigators, and
adventurers, are men of a daring morality, and we must put up with our
liability to be in the main looked upon as evil.




433.


SEEING WITH NEW EYES.—Presuming that by the term “beauty in art” is always
implied the imitation of something that is happy—and this I consider to be
true—according as an age or a people or a great autocratic individuality
represents happiness: what then is disclosed by the so-called realism of
our modern artists in regard to the happiness of our epoch? It is
undoubtedly its type of beauty which we now understand most easily and
enjoy best of any. As a consequence, we are induced to believe that this
happiness which is now peculiar to us is based on realism, on the sharpest
possible senses, and on the true conception of the actual—that is to say,
not upon reality, but upon what we know of reality. The results of science
have already gained so much in depth and extent that the artists of our
century have involuntarily become the glorifiers of scientific “blessings”
_per se_.




434.


INTERCESSION.—Unpretentious regions are subjects for great landscape
painters; remarkable and rare regions for inferior painters: for the great
things of nature and humanity must intercede in favour of their little,
mediocre, and vain admirers—whereas the great man intercedes in favour of
unassuming things.




435.


NOT TO PERISH UNNOTICED.—It is not only once but continuously that our
excellence and greatness are constantly crumbling away; the weeds that
grow among everything and cling to everything ruin all that is great in
us—the wretchedness of our surroundings, which we always try to overlook
and which is before our eyes at every hour of the day, the innumerable
little roots of mean and petty feelings which we allow to grow up all
about us, in our office, among our companions, or our daily labours. If we
permit these small weeds to escape our notice we shall perish through them
unnoticed!—And, if you must perish, then do so immediately and suddenly;
for in that case you will perhaps leave proud ruins behind you! and not,
as is now to be feared, merely molehills, covered with grass and
weeds—these petty and miserable conquerors, as humble as ever, and too
wretched even to triumph.




436.


CASUISTIC.—We are confronted with a very bitter and painful dilemma, for
the solution of which not every one’s bravery and character are equal:
when, as passengers on board a steamer, we discover that the captain and
the helmsman are making dangerous mistakes, and that we are their
superiors in nautical science—and then we ask ourselves: “What would
happen if we organised a mutiny against them, and made them both
prisoners? Is it not our duty to do so in view of our superiority? and
would not they in their turn be justified in putting us in irons for
encouraging disobedience?”

This is a simile for higher and worse situations; and the final question
to be decided is, What guarantees our superiority and our faith in
ourselves in such a case? Success? but in order to do that we must do the
very thing in which all the danger lies—not only dangerous for ourselves,
but also for the ship.




437.


PRIVILEGES.—The man who really owns himself, that is to say, he who has
finally conquered himself, regards it as his own right to punish, to
pardon, or to pity himself: he need not concede this privilege to any one,
though he may freely bestow it upon some one else—a friend, for
example—but he knows that in doing this he is conferring a right, and that
rights can only be conferred by one who is in full possession of power.




438.


MAN AND THINGS.—Why does the man not see the things? He himself is in the
way: he conceals the things.




439.


CHARACTERISTICS OF HAPPINESS.—There are two things common to all
sensations of happiness: a profusion of feelings, accompanied by animal
spirits, so that, like the fishes, we feel ourselves to be in our element
and play about in it. Good Christians will understand what Christian
exuberance means.




440.


NEVER RENOUNCE.—Renouncing the world without knowing it, like a nun,
results in a fruitless and perhaps melancholy solitude. This has nothing
in common with the solitude of the _vita contemplativa_ of the thinker:
when he chooses this form of solitude he wishes to renounce nothing; but
he would on the contrary regard it as a renunciation, a melancholy
destruction of his own self, if he were obliged to continue in the _vita
practica_. He forgoes this latter because he knows it, because he knows
himself. So he jumps into _his_ water, and thus gains _his_ cheerfulness.




441.


WHY THE NEAREST THINGS BECOME EVER MORE DISTANT FOR US.—The more we give
up our minds to all that has been and will be, the paler will become that
which actually is. When we live with the dead and participate in their
death, what are our “neighbours” to us? We grow lonelier simply because
the entire flood of humanity is surging round about us. The fire that
burns within us, and glows for all that is human, is continually
increasing—and hence we look upon everything that surrounds us as if it
had become more indifferent, more shadowy,—but our cold glance is
offensive.




442.


THE RULE.—“The rule always appears to me to be more interesting than the
exception”—whoever thinks thus has made considerable progress in
knowledge, and is one of the initiated.




443.


ON EDUCATION.—I have gradually come to see daylight in regard to the most
general defect in our methods of education and training: nobody learns,
nobody teaches, nobody wishes, to endure solitude.




444.


SURPRISE AT RESISTANCE.—Because we have reached the point of being able to
see through a thing we believe that henceforth it can offer us no further
resistance—and then we are surprised to find that we can see through it
and yet cannot penetrate through it. This is the same kind of foolishness
and surprise as that of the fly on a pane of glass.




445.


WHERE THE NOBLEST ARE MISTAKEN.—We give some one at length our dearest and
most valued possession, and then love has nothing more to give: but the
recipient of the gift will certainly not consider it as his dearest
possession, and will consequently be wanting in that full and complete
gratitude which we expect from him.




446.


HIERARCHY.—First and foremost, there are the superficial thinkers, and
secondly the profound thinkers—such as dive into the depths of a
thing,—thirdly, the thorough thinkers, who get to the bottom of a
thing—which is of much greater importance than merely diving into its
depths,—and, finally, those who leap head foremost into the marsh: though
this must not be looked upon as indicating either depth or thoroughness!
these are the lovers of obscurity.(13)




447.


MASTER AND PUPIL.—By cautioning his pupils against himself the teacher
shows his humanity.




448.


HONOURING REALITY.—How can we look at this exulting multitude without
tears and acquiescence? at one time we thought little of the object of
their exultation, and we should still think so if we ourselves had not
come through a similar experience. And what may these experiences lead us
to! what are our opinions! In order that we may not lose ourselves and our
reason we must fly from experiences. It was thus that Plato fled from
actuality, and wished to contemplate things only in their pale mental
concepts: he was full of sensitiveness, and knew how easily the waves of
this sensitiveness would drown his reason.—Must the sage therefore say, “I
will honour reality, but I will at the same time turn my back to it
because I know and dread it?” Ought he to behave as certain African tribes
do in the presence of their sovereign, whom they approach backwards, thus
showing their reverence at the same time as their dread?




449.


WHERE ARE THE POOR IN SPIRIT?—Oh, how greatly it goes against my grain to
impose my own thoughts upon others! How I rejoice over every mood and
secret change within me as the result of which the thoughts of others are
victorious over my own! but from time to time I enjoy an even greater
satisfaction, when I am allowed to give away my intellectual possessions,
like the confessor sitting in his box and anxiously awaiting the arrival
of some distressed person who stands in need of consolation, and will be
only too glad to relate the full misery of his thoughts so that the
listener’s hand and heart will once again be filled, and the troubled soul
eased! Not only has the confessor no desire for renown: he would fain shun
gratitude as well, for it is obtrusive, and does not stand in awe of
solitude or silence.

But to live without a name, and even to be slightly sneered at; too
obscure to arouse envy or enmity; with a head free from fever, a handful
of knowledge, and a pocketful of experience; a physician, as it were, of
the poor in spirit, helping this one or that one whose head is troubled
with opinions, without the latter perceiving who has actually helped him!
without any desire to appear to be in the right in the presence of his
patient, or to carry off a victory. To speak to him in such a way that,
after a short and almost imperceptible hint or objection, the listener may
find out for himself what is right and proudly walk away! To be like an
obscure and unknown inn which turns no one away who is in need, but which
is afterwards forgotten and laughed at! To be without any advantages over
others—neither possessing better food nor purer air, nor a more cheerful
mind—but always to be giving away, returning, communicating, and becoming
poorer! To know how to be humble in order to be accessible to many people
and humiliating to none! To take a great deal of injustice on his
shoulders and creep through the cracks and crannies of all kinds of
errors, in order that we may reach many obscure souls on their secret
paths! ever in possession of some kind of love, and some kind of egoism
and self-enjoyment! in possession of power, and yet at the same time
hidden and resigned! constantly basking in the sunshine and sweetness of
grace, and yet knowing that quite near to us stands the ladder leading to
the sublime!—that would be life! that would indeed be a reason for a long
life!




450.


THE TEMPTATIONS OF KNOWLEDGE.—A glance through the gate of science acts
upon passionate spirits as the charm of charms: they will probably become
dreamers, or in the most favourable cases poets, so great is their desire
for the happiness of the man who can discern. Does it not enter into all
your senses, this note of sweet temptation by which science has announced
its joyful message in a thousand ways, and in the thousand and first way,
the noblest of all, “Begone, illusion! for then ‘Woe is me’ also vanished,
and with it woe itself is gone” (Marcus Aurelius).




451.


FOR WHOM A COURT JESTER IS NEEDFUL.—Those who are very beautiful, very
good, and very powerful scarcely ever learn the full and naked truth about
anything,—for in their presence we involuntarily lie a little, because we
feel their influence, and in view of this influence convey a truth in the
form of an adaptation (by falsifying the shades and degrees of facts, by
omitting or adding details, and withholding that which is insusceptible of
adaptation). If, however, in spite of all this, people of this description
insist upon hearing the truth, they must keep a court jester—a being with
the madman’s privilege of being unable to adapt himself.




452.


IMPATIENCE.—There is a certain degree of impatience in men of thought and
action, which in cases of failure at once drives them to the opposite
camp, induces them to take a great interest in it, and to give themselves
up to new undertakings—until here again the slowness of their success
drives them away. Thus they rove about, like so many reckless adventurers,
through the practices of many kingdoms and natures; and in the end, as the
result of their wide knowledge of men and things, acquired by their
unheard of travel and practice, and with a certain moderation of their
craving, they become powerful practical men. Hence a defect in character
may become the school of genius.




453.


A MORAL INTERREGNUM.—Who is now in a position to describe that which will
one day supplant moral feelings and judgments!—however certain we may be
that these are founded on error, and that the building erected upon such
foundations cannot be repaired: their obligation must gradually diminish
from day to day, in so far as the obligation of reason does not diminish!
To carry out the task of re-establishing the laws of life and action is
still beyond the power of our sciences of physiology and medicine, society
and solitude: though it is only from them that we can borrow the
foundation-stones of new ideals (but not the ideals themselves). Thus we
live a preliminary or after existence, according to our tastes and
talents, and the best we can do in this interregnum is to be as much as
possible our own “_reges_,” and to establish small experimental states. We
are experiments: if we want to be so!




454.


A DIGRESSION.—A book like this is not intended to be read through at once,
or to be read aloud. It is intended more particularly for reference,
especially on our walks and travels: we must take it up and put it down
again after a short reading, and, more especially, we ought not to be
amongst our usual surroundings.




455.


THE PRIMARY NATURE.—As we are now brought up, we begin by acquiring a
secondary nature, and we possess it when the world calls us mature, of
age, efficient. A few have sufficient of the serpent about them to cast
this skin some day, when their primary nature has come to maturity under
it. But in the majority of people the germ of it withers away.




456.


A VIRTUE IN PROCESS OF BECOMING.—Such assertions and promises as those of
the ancient philosophers on the unity of virtue and felicity, or that of
Christianity, “Seek ye first the Kingdom of God and His righteousness, and
all these things shall be added unto you,” have never been made with
absolute sincerity, but always without a bad conscience nevertheless.
People were in the habit of boldly laying down principles—which they
wished to be true—exactly as if they were truth itself, in spite of all
appearances to the contrary, and in doing this they felt neither religious
nor moral compunction; for it was _in honorem maiorem_ of virtue or of God
that one had gone beyond truth, without, however, any selfish intention!

Many good people still act up to this degree of truthfulness: when they
feel unselfish they think it permissible to treat truth more lightly. Let
it be remembered that the word honesty is neither to be found among the
Socratic nor the Christian virtues: it is one of our most recent virtues,
not yet quite mature, frequently misconstrued and misunderstood, scarcely
conscious of itself—something in embryo, which we may either promote or
check according to our inclination.




457.


FINAL TACITURNITY.—There are some men who fare like the digger after
hidden treasures: they quite accidentally discover the carefully-preserved
secrets of another’s soul, and as a result come into the possession of
knowledge which it is often a heavy burden to bear. In certain
circumstances we may know the living and the dead, and sound their inmost
thoughts to such an extent that it becomes painful to us to speak to
others about them: at every word we utter we are afraid of being
indiscreet.—I can easily imagine a sudden silence on the part of the
wisest historian.




458.


THE GREAT PRIZE.—There is a very rare thing, but a very delightful one,
viz. the man with a nobly-formed intellect who possesses at the same time
the character and inclinations, and even meets with the experiences,
suited to such an intellect.




459.


THE MAGNANIMITY OF THE THINKER.—Both Rousseau and Schopenhauer were proud
enough to inscribe upon their lives the motto, _Vitam impendere vero_. And
how they both must have suffered in their pride because they could not
succeed in _verum impendere vitæ!_—_verum_, such as each of them
understood it,—when their lives ran side by side with their knowledge like
an uncouth bass which is not in tune with the melody.

Knowledge, however, would be in a bad way if it were measured out to every
thinker only in proportion as it can be adapted to his own person. And
thinkers would be in a bad way if their vanity were so great that they
could only endure such an adaptation, for the noblest virtue of a great
thinker is his magnanimity, which urges him on in his search for knowledge
to sacrifice himself and his life unshrinkingly, often shamefacedly, and
often with sublime scorn, and smiling.




460.


UTILISING OUR HOURS OF DANGER.—Those men and conditions whose every
movement may mean danger to our possessions, honour, and life or death,
and to those most dear to us, we shall naturally learn to know thoroughly.
Tiberius, for instance, must have meditated much more deeply on the
character and methods of government of the Emperor Augustus, and must have
known far more about them than even the wisest historian.

At the present day we all live, relatively speaking, in a security which
is much too great to make us true psychologists: some survey their
fellow-men as a hobby, others out of ennui, and others again merely from
habit; but never to the extent they would do if they were told “Discern or
perish!” As long as truths do not cut us to the quick we assume an
attitude of contempt towards them: they still appear to us too much like
the “winged dreams,” as if we could or could not have them at our
discretion, as if we could likewise be aroused from these truths as from a
dream!




461.


_HIC RHODUS, HIC SALTA._—Our music, which can and must change into
everything, because like the demon of the sea, it has no character of its
own: this music in former times devoted its attention to the Christian
savant, and transposed his ideals into sounds: why cannot it likewise find
those brighter, more cheerful, and universal sounds which correspond to
the ideal thinker?—a music which could rock itself at ease in the vast
floating vaults of the soul? So far our music has been so great and so
good; nothing seemed impossible to its powers. May it therefore prove
possible to create these three sensations at one time: sublimity, deep and
warm light, and rapture of the greatest possible consistency!




462.


SLOW CURES.—Chronic illnesses of the soul, like those of the body, are
very rarely due to one gross offence against physical and mental reason,
but as a general rule they arise from innumerable and petty negligences of
a minor order.—A man, for example, whose breathing becomes a trifle weaker
every day, and whose lungs, by inhaling too little air, are deprived of
their proper amount of exercise, will end by being struck down by some
chronic disease of the lungs. The only remedy for cases like these is a
countless number of minor exercises of a contrary tendency—making it a
rule, for example, to take a long and deep breath every quarter of an
hour, lying flat on the ground if possible. For this purpose a clock which
strikes the quarters should be chosen as a lifelong companion.

All these remedies are slow and trifling; but yet the man who wishes to
cure his soul will carefully consider a change, even in his least
important habits. Many a man will utter a cold and angry word to his
surroundings ten times a day without thinking about it, and he will forget
that after a few years it will have become a regular habit with him to put
his surroundings out of temper ten times a day. But he can also acquire
the habit of doing good to them ten times.




463.


ON THE SEVENTH DAY.—“You praise this as my creation? but I have only put
aside what was a burden to me! my soul is above the vanity of
creators.—You praise this as my resignation? but I have only stripped
myself of what had become burdensome! My soul is above the vanity of the
resigned ones!”




464.


THE DONOR’S MODESTY.—There is such a want of generosity in always posing
as the donor and benefactor, and showing one’s face when doing so! But to
give and bestow, and at the same time to conceal one’s name and favour! or
not to have a name at all, like nature, in whom this fact is more
refreshing to us than anything else—here at last we no more meet with the
giver and bestower, no more with a “gracious countenance.”—It is true that
you have now forfeited even this comfort, for you have placed a God in
this nature—and now everything is once again fettered and oppressed! Well?
are we never to have the right of remaining alone with ourselves? are we
always to be watched, guarded, surrounded by leading strings and gifts? If
there is always some one round about us, the best part of courage and
kindness will ever remain impossible of attainment in this world. Are we
not tempted to fly to hell before this continual obtrusiveness of heaven,
this inevitable supernatural neighbour? Never mind, it was only a dream;
let us wake up!




465.


AT A MEETING.—

_A._ What are you looking at? you have been standing here for a very long
time.

_B._ Always the new and the old over again! the helplessness of a thing
urges me on to plunge into it so deeply that I end by penetrating to its
deepest depths, and perceive that in reality it is not worth so very much.
At the end of all experiences of this kind we meet with a kind of sorrow
and stupor. I experience this on a small scale several times a day.




466.


A LOSS OF RENOWN.—What an advantage it is to be able to speak as a
stranger to mankind! When they take away our anonymity, and make us
famous, the gods deprive us of “half our virtue.”




467.


DOUBLY PATIENT.—“By doing this you will hurt many people.”—I know that,
and I also know that I shall have to suffer for it doubly: in the first
place out of pity for their suffering, and secondly from the revenge they
will take on me. But in spite of this I cannot help doing what I do.




468.


THE KINGDOM OF BEAUTY IS GREATER.—We move about in nature, cunning and
cheerful, in order that we may surprise everything in the beauty peculiar
to it; we make an effort, whether in sunshine or under a stormy sky, to
see a distant part of the coast with its rocks, bays, and olive and pine
trees under an aspect in which it achieves its perfection and
consummation. Thus also we should walk about among men as their
discoverers and explorers, meting out to them good and evil in order that
we may unveil the peculiar beauty which is seen with some in the sunshine,
in others under thunder-clouds, or with others again only in twilight and
under a rainy sky.

Are we then forbidden to enjoy the evil man like some savage landscape
which possesses its own bold and daring lines and luminous effects, while
this same man, so long as he behaves well, and in conformity with the law,
appears to us to be an error of drawing, and a mere caricature which
offends us like a defect in nature?—Yes, this is forbidden: for as yet we
have only been permitted to seek beauty in anything that is morally
good,—and this is sufficient to explain why we have found so little and
have been compelled to look for beauty without either flesh or bones!—in
the same way as evil men are familiar with innumerable kinds of happiness
which the virtuous never dream of, we may also find among them innumerable
types of beauty, many of them as yet undiscovered.




469.


THE INHUMANITY OF THE SAGE.—The heavy and grinding progress of the sage,
who in the words of the Buddhist song, “Wanders lonely like the
rhinoceros,” now and again stands in need of proofs of a conciliatory and
softened humanity, and not only proofs of those accelerated steps, those
polite and sociable witticisms; not only of humour and a certain
self-mockery, but likewise of contradictions and occasional returns to the
predominating inconsistencies. In order that he may not resemble the heavy
roller that rolls along like fate, the sage who wishes to teach must take
advantage of his defects, and utilise them for his own adornment; and when
saying “despise me” he will implore permission to be the advocate of a
presumptuous truth.

This sage wishes to lead you to the mountains, and he will perhaps
endanger your life: therefore as the price of his enjoyment he willingly
authorises you to take your revenge either before or afterwards on such a
guide. Do you remember what thoughts came into your head when he once led
you to a gloomy cavern over a slippery path? Your distrustful heart beat
rapidly, and said inwardly, “This guide might surely do something better
than crawl about here! he is one of those idle people who are full of
curiosity—is it not doing him too much honour to appear to attach any
value at all to him by following him?”




470.


MANY AT THE BANQUET.—How happy we are when we are fed like the birds by
the hand of some one who throws them their crumbs without examining them
too closely, or inquiring into their worthiness! To live like a bird which
comes and flies away, and does not carry its name on its beak! I take
great pleasure in satisfying my appetite at the banquet of the many.




471.


ANOTHER TYPE OF LOVE FOR ONE’S NEIGHBOUR.—Everything that is agitated,
noisy, fitful, and nervous forms a contrast to the great passion which,
glowing in the heart of man like a quiet and gloomy flame, and gathering
about it all that is flaming and ardent, gives to man the appearance of
coldness and indifference, and stamps a certain impassiveness on his
features. Such men are occasionally capable of showing their love for
their neighbour, but this love is different from that of sociable people
who are anxious to please. It is a mild, contemplative, and calm
amiability: these people, as it were, look out of the windows of the
castle which serves them as a stronghold, and consequently as a prison;
for the outlook into the far distance, the open air, and a different world
is so pleasant for them!




472.


NOT JUSTIFYING ONESELF.—

_A._ But why are you not willing to justify yourself?

_B._ I could do it in this instance, as in dozens of others; but I despise
the pleasure which lies in justification, for all that matters little to
me, and I would rather bear a stained reputation than give those petty
folks the spiteful pleasure of saying, “He takes these things very
seriously.” This is not true. Perhaps I ought to have more consideration
for myself, and look upon it as a duty to rectify erroneous opinions about
myself—I am too indifferent and too indolent regarding myself, and
consequently also regarding everything that is brought about through my
agency.




473.


WHERE TO BUILD ONE’S HOUSE.—If you feel great and productive in solitude,
society will belittle and isolate you, and _vice versa_. A powerful
mildness such as that of a father:—wherever this feeling takes possession
of you, _there_ build your house, whether in the midst of the multitude,
or on some silent spot. _Ubi pater sum, ibi patria._(14)




474.


THE ONLY MEANS.—“Dialectic is the only means of reaching the divine
essence, and penetrating behind the veil of appearance.” This declaration
of Plato in regard to dialectic is as solemn and passionate as that of
Schopenhauer in regard to the contrary of dialectic—and both are wrong.
For that to which they wish to point out the way to us does not exist.—And
so far have not all the great passions of mankind been passions for
something non-existent?—and all their ceremonies—ceremonies for something
non-existent also?




475.


BECOMING HEAVY.—You know him not; whatever weights he may attach to
himself he will nevertheless be able to raise them all with him. But you,
judging from the weak flapping of your own wings, come to the conclusion
that he wishes to remain below, merely because he does burden himself with
those weights.




476.


AT THE HARVEST THANKSGIVING OF THE INTELLECT.—There is a daily increase
and accumulation of experiences, events, opinions upon these experiences
and events, and dreams upon these opinions—a boundless and delightful
display of wealth! its aspect dazzles the eyes: I can no longer understand
how the poor in spirit can be called blessed! Occasionally, however, I
envy them when I am tired: for the superintendence of such vast wealth is
no easy task, and its weight frequently crushes all happiness.—Alas, if
only the mere sight of it were sufficient! If only we could be misers of
our knowledge!




477.


FREED FROM SCEPTICISM.—

_A._ Some men emerge from a general moral scepticism bad-tempered and
feeble, corroded, worm-eaten, and even partly consumed—but I on the other
hand, more courageous and healthier than ever, and with my instincts
conquered once more. Where a strong wind blows, where the waves are
rolling angrily, and where more than usual danger is to be faced, there I
feel happy. I did not become a worm, although I often had to work and dig
like a worm.

_B._ You have just ceased to be a sceptic; for you deny!

_A._ And in doing so I have learnt to say yea again.




478.


LET US PASS BY.—Spare him! Leave him in his solitude! Do you wish to crush
him down entirely? He became cracked like a glass into which some hot
liquid was poured suddenly—and he was such a precious glass!




479.


LOVE AND TRUTHFULNESS.—Through our love we have become dire offenders
against truth, and even habitual dissimulators and thieves, who give out
more things as true than seem to us to be true. On this account the
thinker must from time to time drive away those whom he loves (not
necessarily those who love him), so that they may show their sting and
wickedness, and cease to tempt him. Consequently the kindness of the
thinker will have its waning and waxing moon.




480.


INEVITABLE.—No matter what your experience may be, any one who does not
feel well disposed towards you will find in this experience some pretext
for disparaging you! You may undergo the greatest possible revolutions of
mind and knowledge, and at length, with the melancholy smile of the
convalescent, you may be able to step out into freedom and bright
stillness, and yet some one will say: “This fellow looks upon his illness
as an argument, and takes his impotence to be a proof of the impotence of
all others—he is vain enough to fall ill that he may feel the superiority
of the sufferer.” And again, if somebody were to break the chains that
bound him down, and wounded himself severely in doing so, some one else
would point at him mockingly and cry: “How awkward he is! there is a man
who had got accustomed to his chains, and yet he is fool enough to burst
them asunder!”




481.


TWO GERMANS.—If we compare Kant and Schopenhauer with Plato, Spinoza,
Pascal, Rousseau, and Goethe, with reference to their souls and not their
intellects, we shall see that the two first-named thinkers are at a
disadvantage: their thoughts do not constitute a passionate history of
their souls—we are not led to expect in them romance, crises,
catastrophies, or death struggles. Their thinking is not at the same time
the involuntary biography of a soul, but in the case of Kant merely of a
head; and in the case of Schopenhauer again merely the description and
reflection of a character (“the invariable”) and the pleasure which this
reflection causes, that is to say, the pleasure of meeting with an
intellect of the first order.

Kant, when he shimmers through his thoughts, appears to us as an honest
and honourable man in the best sense of the words, but likewise as an
insignificant one: he is wanting in breadth and power; he had not come
through many experiences, and his method of working did not allow him
sufficient time to undergo experiences. Of course, in speaking of
experiences, I do not refer to the ordinary external events of life, but
to those fatalities and convulsions which occur in the course of the most
solitary and quiet life which has some leisure and glows with the passion
for thinking. Schopenhauer has at all events one advantage over him; for
he at least was distinguished by a certain fierce ugliness of disposition,
which showed itself in hatred, desire, vanity, and suspicion: he was of a
rather more ferocious disposition, and had both time and leisure to
indulge this ferocity. But he lacked “development,” which was also wanting
in his range of thought: he had no “history.”




482.


SEEKING ONE’S COMPANY.—Are we then looking for too much when we seek the
company of men who have grown mild, agreeable to the taste, and nutritive,
like chestnuts which have been put into the fire and taken out just at the
right moment? Of men who expect little from life, and prefer to accept
this little as a present rather than as a merit of their own, as if it
were carried to them by birds and bees? Of men who are too proud ever to
feel themselves rewarded, and too serious in their passion for knowledge
and honesty to have time for or pleasure in fame? Such men we should call
philosophers; but they themselves will always find some more modest
designation.




483.


SATIATED WITH MANKIND.—

_A._ Seek for knowledge! Yes! but always as a man! What? must I always be
a spectator of the same comedy, and always play a part in the same comedy,
without ever being able to observe things with other eyes than those? and
yet there may be countless types of beings whose organs are better adapted
for knowledge than ours! At the end of all their searching for knowledge
what will men at length come to know? Their organs! which perhaps is as
much as to say: the impossibility of knowledge! misery and disgust!

_B._ This is a bad attack you have—reason is attacking you! to-morrow,
however, you will again be in the midst of knowledge, and hence of
irrationality—that is to say, delighted about all that is human. Let us go
to the sea!




484.


GOING OUR OWN WAY.—When we take the decisive step, and make up our minds
to follow our own path, a secret is suddenly revealed to us: it is clear
that all those who had hitherto been friendly to us and on intimate terms
with us judged themselves to be superior to us, and are offended now. The
best among them are indulgent, and are content to wait patiently until we
once more find the “right path”—they know it, apparently. Others make fun
of us, and pretend that we have been seized with a temporary attack of
mild insanity, or spitefully point out some seducer. The more malicious
say we are vain fools, and do their best to blacken our motives; while the
worst of all see in us their greatest enemy, some one who is thirsting for
revenge after many years of dependence,—and are afraid of us. What, then,
are we to do? My own opinion is that we should begin our sovereignty by
promising to all our acquaintances in advance a whole year’s amnesty for
sins of every kind.




485.


FAR-OFF PERSPECTIVES.—

_A._ But why this solitude?

_B._ I am not angry with anybody. But when I am alone it seems to me that
I can see my friends in a clearer and rosier light than when I am with
them; and when I loved and felt music best I lived far from it. It would
seem that I must have distant perspectives in order that I may think well
of things.




486.


GOLD AND HUNGER.—Here and there we meet with a man who changes into gold
everything that he touches. But some fine evil day he will discover that
he himself must starve through this gift of his. Everything around him is
brilliant, superb, and unapproachable in its ideal beauty, and now he
eagerly longs for things which it is impossible for him to turn into
gold—and how intense is this longing! like that of a starving man for a
meal! Query: What will he seize?




487.


SHAME.—Look at that noble steed pawing the ground, snorting, longing for a
ride, and loving its accustomed rider—but, shameful to relate, the rider
cannot mount to-day, he is tired.—Such is the shame felt by the weary
thinker in the presence of his own philosophy!




488.


AGAINST THE WASTE OF LOVE.—Do we not blush when we surprise ourselves in a
state of violent aversion? Well, then, we should also blush when we find
ourselves possessed of strong affections on account of the injustice
contained in them. More: there are people who feel their hearts weighed
down and oppressed when some one gives them the benefit of his love and
sympathy to the extent that he deprives others of a share. The tone of his
voice reveals to us the fact that we have been specially selected and
preferred! but, alas! I am not thankful for being thus selected: I
experience within myself a certain feeling of resentment against him who
wishes to distinguish me in this way—he shall not love me at the expense
of others! I shall always try to look after myself and to endure myself,
and my heart is often filled to overflowing, and with some reason. To such
a man nothing ought to be given of which others stand so greatly in need.




489.


FRIENDS IN NEED.—We may occasionally remark that one of our friends
sympathises with another more than with us. His delicacy is troubled
thereby, and his selfishness is not equal to the task of breaking down his
feelings of affection: in such a case we should facilitate the separation
for him, and estrange him in some way in order to widen the distance
between us.—This is also necessary when we fall into a habit of thinking
which might be detrimental to him: our affection for him should induce us
to ease his conscience in separating himself from us by means of some
injustice which we voluntarily take upon ourselves.




490.


THOSE PETTY TRUTHS.—“You know all that, but you have never lived through
it—so I will not accept your evidence. Those ‘petty truths’—you deem them
petty because you have not paid for them with your blood!”—But are they
really great, simply because they have been bought at so high a price? and
blood is always too high a price!—“Do you really think so? How stingy you
are with your blood!”




491.


SOLITUDE, THEREFORE!—

_A._ So you wish to go back to your desert?

_B._ I am not a quick thinker; I must wait for myself a long time—it is
always later and later before the water from the fountain of my own ego
spurts forth, and I have often to go thirsty longer than suits my
patience. That is why I retire into solitude in order that I may not have
to drink from the common cisterns. When I live in the midst of the
multitude my life is like theirs, and I do not think like myself; but
after some time it always seems to me as if the multitude wished to banish
me from myself and to rob me of my soul. Then I get angry with all these
people, and afraid of them; and I must have the desert to become well
disposed again.




492.


UNDER THE SOUTH WIND.—

_A._ I can no longer understand myself! It was only yesterday that I felt
myself so tempestuous and ardent, and at the same time so warm and sunny
and exceptionally bright! but to-day! Now everything is calm, wide,
oppressive, and dark like the lagoon at Venice. I wish for nothing, and
draw a deep breath, and yet I feel inwardly indignant at this “wish for
nothing”—so the waves rise and fall in the ocean of my melancholy.

_B._ You describe a petty, agreeable illness. The next wind from the
north-east will blow it away.

_A._ Why so?




493.


ON ONE’S OWN TREE.—

_A._ No thinker’s thoughts give me so much pleasure as my own: this, of
course, proves nothing in favour of their value; but I should be foolish
to neglect fruits which are tasteful to me only because they happen to
grow on my own tree!—and I was once such a fool.

_B._ Others have the contrary feeling: which likewise proves nothing in
favour of their thoughts, nor yet is it any argument against their value.




494.


THE LAST ARGUMENT OF THE BRAVE MAN.—There are snakes in this little clump
of trees.—Very well, I will rush into the thicket and kill them.—But by
doing that you will run the risk of falling a victim to them, and not they
to you.—But what do I matter?




495.


OUR TEACHERS.—During our period of youth we select our teachers and guides
from our own times, and from those circles which we happen to meet with:
we have the thoughtless conviction that the present age must have teachers
who will suit us better than any others, and that we are sure to find them
without having to look very far. Later on we find that we have to pay a
heavy penalty for this childishness: we have to expiate our teachers in
ourselves, and then perhaps we begin to look for the proper guides. We
look for them throughout the whole world, including even present and past
ages—but perhaps it may be too late, and at the worst we discover that
they lived when we were young—and that at that time we lost our
opportunity.




496.


THE EVIL PRINCIPLE.—Plato has marvellously described how the philosophic
thinker must necessarily be regarded as the essence of depravity in the
midst of every existing society: for as the critic of all its morals he is
naturally the antagonist of the moral man, and, unless he succeeds in
becoming the legislator of new morals, he lives long in the memory of men
as an instance of the “evil principle.” From this we may judge to how
great an extent the city of Athens, although fairly liberal and fond of
innovations, abused the reputation of Plato during his lifetime. What
wonder then that he—who, as he has himself recorded, had the “political
instinct” in his body—made three different attempts in Sicily, where at
that time a united Mediterranean Greek State appeared to be in process of
formation?

It was in this State, and with its assistance, that Plato thought he could
do for the Greeks what Mohammed did for the Arabs several centuries later:
viz. establishing both minor and more important customs, and especially
regulating the daily life of every man. His ideas were quite practicable
just as certainly as those of Mohammed were practicable; for even much
more incredible ideas, those of Christianity, proved themselves to be
practicable! a few hazards less and a few hazards more—and then the world
would have witnessed the Platonisation of Southern Europe; and, if we
suppose that this state of things had continued to our own days, we should
probably be worshipping Plato now as the “good principle.” But he was
unsuccessful, and so his traditional character remains that of a dreamer
and a Utopian—stronger epithets than these passed away with ancient
Athens.




497.


THE PURIFYING EYE.—We have the best reason for speaking of “genius” in
men—for example, Plato, Spinoza, and Goethe—whose minds appear to be but
loosely linked to their character and temperament, like winged beings
which easily separate themselves from them, and then rise far above them.
On the other hand, those who never succeeded in cutting themselves loose
from their temperament, and who knew how to give to it the most
intellectual, lofty, and at times even cosmic expression (Schopenhauer,
for instance) have always been very fond of speaking about their genius.

These geniuses could not rise above themselves, but they believed that,
fly where they would, they would always find and recover themselves—this
is their “greatness,” and this can be greatness!—The others who are
entitled to this name possess the pure and purifying eye which does not
seem to have sprung out of their temperament and character, but separately
from them, and generally in contradiction to them, and looks out upon the
world as on a God whom it loves. But even people like these do not come
into possession of such an eye all at once: they require practice and a
preliminary school of sight, and he who is really fortunate will at the
right moment also fall in with a teacher of pure sight.




498.


NEVER DEMAND!—You do not know him! it is true that he easily and readily
submits both to men and things, and that he is kind to both—his only wish
is to be left in peace—but only in so far as men and things do not
_demand_ his submission. Any demand makes him proud, bashful, and warlike.




499.


THE EVIL ONE.—“Only the solitary are evil!”—thus spake Diderot, and
Rousseau at once felt deeply offended. Thus he proved that Diderot was
right. Indeed, in society, or amid social life, every evil instinct is
compelled to restrain itself, to assume so many masks, and to press itself
so often into the Procrustean bed of virtue, that we are quite justified
in speaking of the martyrdom of the evil man. In solitude, however, all
this disappears. The evil man is still more evil in solitude—and
consequently for him whose eye sees only a drama everywhere he is also
more beautiful.




500.


AGAINST THE GRAIN.—A thinker may for years at a time force himself to
think against the grain: that is, not to pursue the thoughts that spring
up within him, but, instead, those which he is compelled to follow by the
exigencies of his office, an established division of time, or any
arbitrary duty which he may find it necessary to fulfil. In the long run,
however, he will fall ill; for this apparently moral self-command will
destroy his nervous system as thoroughly and completely as regular
debauchery.




501.


MORTAL SOULS.—Where knowledge is concerned perhaps the most useful
conquest that has ever been made is the abandonment of the belief in the
immortality of the soul. Humanity is henceforth at liberty to wait: men
need no longer be in a hurry to swallow badly-tested ideas as they had to
do in former times. For in those times the salvation of this poor
“immortal soul” depended upon the extent of the knowledge which could be
acquired in the course of a short existence: decisions had to be reached
from one day to another, and “knowledge” was a matter of dreadful
importance!

Now we have acquired good courage for errors, experiments, and the
provisional acceptance of ideas—all this is not so very important!—and for
this very reason individuals and whole races may now face tasks so vast in
extent that in former years they would have looked like madness, and
defiance of heaven and hell. Now we have the right to experiment upon
ourselves! Yes, men have the right to do so! the greatest sacrifices have
not yet been offered up to knowledge—nay, in earlier periods it would have
been sacrilege, and a sacrifice of our eternal salvation, even to surmise
such ideas as now precede our actions.




502.


ONE WORD FOR THREE DIFFERENT CONDITIONS.—When in a state of passion one
man will be forced to let loose the savage, dreadful, unbearable animal.
Another when under the influence of passion will raise himself to a high,
noble, and lofty demeanour, in comparison with which his usual self
appears petty. A third, whose whole person is permeated with nobility of
feeling, has also the most noble storm and stress: and in this state he
represents Nature in her state of savageness and beauty, and stands only
one degree lower than Nature in her periods of greatness and serenity,
which he usually represents. It is while in this state of passion,
however, that men understand him better, and venerate him more highly at
these moments—for then he is one step nearer and more akin to them. They
feel at once delighted and horrified at such a sight and call it—divine.




503.


FRIENDSHIP.—The objection to a philosophic life that it renders us useless
to our friends would never have arisen in a modern mind: it belongs rather
to classical antiquity. Antiquity knew the stronger bonds of friendship,
meditated upon it, and almost took it to the grave with it. This is the
advantage it has over us: we, on the other hand, can point to our
idealisation of sexual love. All the great excellencies of ancient
humanity owed their stability to the fact that man was standing side by
side with man, and that no woman was allowed to put forward the claim of
being the nearest and highest, nay even sole object of his love, as the
feeling of passion would teach. Perhaps our trees do not grow so high now
owing to the ivy and the vines that cling round them.




504.


RECONCILIATION.—Should it then be the task of philosophy to reconcile what
the child has learnt with what the man has come to recognise? Should
philosophy be the task of young men because they stand midway between
child and man and possess intermediate necessities? It would almost appear
to be so if you consider at what ages of their life philosophers are now
in the habit of setting forth their conceptions: at a time when it is too
late for faith and too early for knowledge.




505.


PRACTICAL PEOPLE.—We thinkers have the right of deciding good taste in all
things, and if necessary of decreeing it. The practical people finally
receive it from us: their dependence upon us is incredibly great, and is
one of the most ridiculous spectacles in the world, little though they
themselves know it and however proudly they like to carp at us unpractical
people. Nay, they would even go so far as to belittle their practical life
if we should show a tendency to despise it—whereto at times we might be
urged on by a slightly vindictive feeling.




506.


THE NECESSARY DESICCATION OF EVERYTHING GOOD.—What! must we conceive of a
work exactly in the spirit of the age that has produced it? but we
experience greater delight and surprise, and get more information out of
it when we do not conceive it in this spirit! Have you not remarked that
every new and good work, so long as it is exposed to the damp air of its
own age is least valuable—just because it still has about it all the odour
of the market, of opposition, of modern ideas, and of all that is
transient from day to day? Later on, however, it dries up, its “actuality”
dies away: and then only does it obtain its deep lustre and its
perfume—and also, if it is destined for it, the calm eye of eternity.




507.


AGAINST THE TYRANNY OF TRUTH.—Even if we were mad enough to consider all
our opinions as truth, we should nevertheless not wish them alone to
exist. I cannot see why we should ask for an autocracy and omnipotence of
truth: it is sufficient for me to know that it is a great power. Truth,
however, must meet with opposition and be able to fight, and we must be
able to rest from it at times in falsehood—otherwise truth will grow
tiresome, powerless, and insipid, and will render us equally so.




508.


NOT TO TAKE A THING PATHETICALLY.—What we do to benefit ourselves should
not bring us in any moral praise, either from others or from ourselves,
and the same remark applies to those things which we do to please
ourselves. It is looked upon as _bon ton_ among superior men to refrain
from taking things pathetically in such cases, and to refrain from all
pathetic feelings: the man who has accustomed himself to this has
retrieved his _naïveté_.




509.


THE THIRD EYE.—What! You are still in need of the theatre! are you still
so young? Be wise, and seek tragedy and comedy where they are better
acted, and where the incidents are more interesting, and the actors more
eager. It is indeed by no means easy to be merely a spectator in these
cases—but learn! and then, amid all difficult or painful situations, you
will have a little gate leading to joy and refuge, even when your passions
attack you. Open your stage eye, that big third eye of yours, which looks
out into the world through the other two.




510.


ESCAPING FROM ONE’S VIRTUES.—Of what account is a thinker who does not
know how to escape from his own virtues occasionally! Surely a thinker
should be more than “a moral being”!




511.


THE TEMPTRESS.—Honesty is the great temptress of all fanatics.(15) What
seemed to tempt Luther in the guise of the devil or a beautiful woman, and
from which he defended himself in that uncouth way of his, was probably
nothing but honesty, and perhaps in a few rarer cases even truth.




512.


BOLD TOWARDS THINGS.—The man who, in accordance with his character, is
considerate and timid towards persons, but is courageous and bold towards
things, is afraid of new and closer acquaintances, and limits his old ones
in order that he may thus make his incognito and his inconsiderateness
coincide with truth.




513.


LIMITS AND BEAUTY.—Are you looking for men with a fine culture? Then you
will have to be satisfied with restricted views and sights, exactly as
when you are looking for fine countries.—There are, of course, such
panoramic men: they are like panoramic regions, instructive and
marvellous: but not beautiful.




514.


TO THE STRONGER.—Ye stronger and arrogant intellects, we ask you for only
one thing: throw no further burdens upon our shoulders, but take some of
our burdens upon your own, since ye are stronger! but ye delight in doing
the exact contrary: for ye wish to soar, so that we must carry your burden
in addition to our own—we must crawl!




515.


THE INCREASE OF BEAUTY.—Why has beauty increased by the progress of
civilisation? because the three occasions for ugliness appear ever more
rarely among civilised men: first, the wildest outbursts of ecstasy;
secondly, extreme bodily exertion, and, thirdly, the necessity of inducing
fear by one’s very sight and presence—a matter which is so frequent and of
so great importance in the lower and more dangerous stages of culture that
it even lays down the proper gestures and ceremonials and makes ugliness a
duty.




516.


NOT TO IMBUE OUR NEIGHBOURS WITH OUR OWN DEMON.—Let us in our age continue
to hold the belief that benevolence and beneficence are the
characteristics of a good man; but let us not fail to add “provided that
in the first place he exhibits his benevolence and beneficence towards
himself.” For if he acts otherwise—that is to say, if he shuns, hates, or
injures himself—he is certainly not a good man. He then merely saves
himself through others: and let these others take care that they do not
come to grief through him, however well disposed he may appear to be to
them!—but to shun and hate one’s own ego, and to live in and for others,
this has up to the present, with as much thoughtlessness as conviction,
been looked upon as “unselfish,” and consequently as “good.”




517.


TEMPTING INTO LOVE.—We ought to fear a man who hates himself; for we are
liable to become the victims of his anger and revenge. Let us therefore
try to tempt him into self-love.




518.


RESIGNATION.—What is resignation? It is the most comfortable position of a
patient, who, after having suffered a long time from tormenting pains in
order to find it, at last became tired—and then found it.




519.


DECEPTION.—When you wish to act you must close the door upon doubt, said a
man of action.—And are you not afraid of being deceived in doing so?
replied the man of a contemplative mind.




520.


ETERNAL OBSEQUIES.—Both within and beyond the confines of history we might
imagine that we were listening to a continual funeral oration: we have
buried, and are still burying, all that we have loved best, our thoughts,
and our hopes, receiving in exchange pride, _gloria mundi_—that is, the
pomp of the graveside speech. It is thus that everything is made good!
Even at the present time the funeral orator remains the greatest public
benefactor.




521.


EXCEPTIONAL VANITY.—Yonder man possesses one great quality which serves as
a consolation for him: his look passes with contempt over the remainder of
his being, and almost his entire character is included in this. But he
recovers from himself when, as it were, he approaches his sanctuary;
already the road leading to it appears to him to be an ascent on broad
soft steps—and yet, ye cruel ones, ye call him vain on this account!




522.


WISDOM WITHOUT EARS.—To hear every day what is said about us, or even to
endeavour to discover what people think of us, will in the end kill even
the strongest man. Our neighbours permit us to live only that they may
exercise a daily claim upon us! They certainly would not tolerate us if we
wished to claim rights over them, and still less if we wished to be right!
In short, let us offer up a sacrifice to the general peace, let us not
listen when they speak of us, when they praise us, blame us, wish for us,
or hope for us—nay, let us not even think of it.




523.


A QUESTION OF PENETRATION.—When we are confronted with any manifestation
which some one has permitted us to see, we may ask: what is it meant to
conceal? What is it meant to draw our attention from? What prejudices does
it seek to raise? and again, how far does the subtlety of the
dissimulation go? and in what respect is the man mistaken?




524.


THE JEALOUSY OF THE LONELY ONES.—This is the difference between sociable
and solitary natures, provided that both possess an intellect: the former
are satisfied, or nearly satisfied, with almost anything whatever; from
the moment that their minds have discovered a communicable and happy
version of it they will be reconciled even with the devil himself! But the
lonely souls have their silent rapture, and their speechless agony about a
thing: they hate the ingenious and brilliant display of their inmost
problems as much as they dislike to see the women they love too loudly
dressed—they watch her mournfully in such a case, as if they were just
beginning to suspect that she was desirous of pleasing others. This is the
jealousy which all lonely thinkers and passionate dreamers exhibit with
regard to the _esprit_.




525.


THE EFFECT OF PRAISE.—Some people become modest when highly praised,
others insolent.




526.


UNWILLING TO BE A SYMBOL.—I sympathise with princes: they are not at
liberty to discard their high rank even for a short time, and thus they
come to know people only from the very uncomfortable position of constant
dissimulation—their continual compulsion to represent something actually
ends by making solemn ciphers of them.—Such is the fate of all those who
deem it their duty to be symbols.




527.


THE HIDDEN MEN.—Have you never come across those people who check and
restrain even their enraptured hearts, and who would rather become mute
than lose the modesty of moderation? and have you never met those
embarrassing, and yet so often good-natured people who do not wish to be
recognised, and who time and again efface the tracks they have made in the
sand? and who even deceive others as well as themselves in order to remain
obscure and hidden?




528.


UNUSUAL FORBEARANCE.—It is often no small indication of kindness to be
unwilling to criticise some one, and even to refuse to think of him.




529.


HOW MEN AND NATIONS GAIN LUSTRE.—How many really individual actions are
left undone merely because before performing them we perceive or suspect
that they will be misunderstood!—those actions, for example, which have
some intrinsic value, both in good and evil. The more highly an age or a
nation values its individuals, therefore, and the more right and
ascendancy we accord them, the more will actions of this kind venture to
make themselves known,—and thus in the long run a lustre of honesty, of
genuineness in good and evil, will spread over entire ages and nations, so
that they—the Greeks, for example—like certain stars, will continue to
shed light for thousands of years after their sinking.




530.


DIGRESSIONS OF THE THINKER.—The course of thought in certain men is strict
and inflexibly bold. At times it is even cruel towards such men, although
considered individually they may be gentle and pliable. With well-meaning
hesitation they will turn the matter ten times over in their heads, but
will at length continue their strict course. They are like streams that
wind their way past solitary hermitages: there are places in their course
where the stream plays hide and seek with itself, and indulges in short
idylls with islets, trees, grottos, and cascades—and then it rushes ahead
once more, passes by the rocks, and forces its way through the hardest
stones.




531.


DIFFERENT FEELINGS TOWARDS ART.—From the time when we begin to live as a
hermit, consuming and consumed, our only company being deep and prolific
thoughts, we expect from art either nothing more, or else something quite
different from what we formerly expected—in a word, we change our taste.
For in former times we wished to penetrate for a moment by means of art
into the element in which we are now living permanently: at that time we
dreamt ourselves into the rapture of a possession which we now actually
possess. Indeed, flinging away from us for the time being what we now
have, and imagining ourselves to be poor, or to be a child, a beggar, or a
fool, may now at times fill us with delight.




532.


“LOVE EQUALISES.”—Love wishes to spare the other to whom it devotes itself
any feeling of strangeness: as a consequence it is permeated with disguise
and simulation; it keeps on deceiving continuously, and feigns an equality
which in reality does not exist. And all this is done so instinctively
that women who love deny this simulation and constant tender trickery, and
have even the audacity to assert that love equalises (in other words that
it performs a miracle)!

This phenomenon is a simple matter if one of the two permits himself or
herself to be loved, and does not deem it necessary to feign, but leaves
this to the other. No drama, however, could offer a more intricate and
confused instance than when both persons are passionately in love with one
another; for in this case both are anxious to surrender and to endeavour
to conform to the other, and finally they are both at a loss to know what
to imitate and what to feign. The beautiful madness of this spectacle is
too good for this world, and too subtle for human eyes.




533.


WE BEGINNERS.—How many things does an actor see and divine when he watches
another on the stage! He notices at once when a muscle fails in some
gesture; he can distinguish those little artificial tricks which are so
calmly practised separately before the mirror, and are not in conformity
with the whole; he feels when the actor is surprised on the stage by his
own invention, and when he spoils it amid this surprise.—How differently,
again, does a painter look at some one who happens to be moving before
him! He will see a great deal that does not actually exist in order to
complete the actual appearance of the person, and to give it its full
effect. In his mind he attempts several different illuminations of the
same object, and divides the whole by an additional contrast.—Oh, that we
now possessed the eyes of such an actor and such a painter for the
province of the human soul!




534.


SMALL DOSES.—If we wish a change to be as deep and radical as possible, we
must apply the remedy in minute doses, but unremittingly for long periods.
What great action can be performed all at once? Let us therefore be
careful not to exchange violently and precipitately the moral conditions
with which we are familiar for a new valuation of things,—nay, we may even
wish to continue living in the old way for a long time to come, until
probably at some very remote period we become aware of the fact that the
new valuation has made itself the predominating power within us, and that
its minute doses to which we must henceforth become accustomed have set up
a new nature within us.—We now also begin to understand that the last
attempt at a great change of valuations—that which concerned itself with
political affairs (the “great revolution”)—was nothing more than a
pathetic and sanguinary piece of quackery which, by means of sudden
crises, was able to inspire a credulous Europe with the hope of a sudden
recovery, and has therefore made all political invalids impatient and
dangerous up to this very moment.




535.


TRUTH REQUIRES POWER.—Truth in itself is no power at all, in spite of all
that flattering rationalists are in the habit of saying to the contrary.
Truth must either attract power to its side, or else side with power, for
otherwise it will perish again and again. This has already been
sufficiently demonstrated, and more than sufficiently!




536.


THE THUMBSCREW.—It is disgusting to observe with what cruelty every one
charges his two or three private virtues to the account of others who may
perhaps not possess them, and whom he torments and worries with them. Let
us therefore deal humanely with the “sense of honesty,” although we may
possess in it a thumbscrew with which we can worry to death all these
presumptuous egoists who even yet wish to impose their own beliefs upon
the whole world—we have tried this thumbscrew on ourselves!




537.


MASTERY.—We have reached mastery when we neither mistake nor hesitate in
the achievement.




538.


THE MORAL INSANITY OF GENIUS.—In a certain category of great intellects we
may observe a painful and partly horrible spectacle: in their most
productive moments their flights aloft and into the far distance appear to
be out of harmony with their general constitution and to exceed their
power in one way or another, so that each time there remains a deficiency,
and also in the long run a defectiveness in the entire machinery, which
latter is manifested among those highly intellectual natures by various
kinds of moral and intellectual symptoms more regularly than by conditions
of bodily distress.

Thus those incomprehensible characteristics of their nature—all their
timidity, vanity, hatefulness, envy, their narrow and narrowing
disposition—and that too personal and awkward element in natures like
those of Rousseau and Schopenhauer, may very well be the consequences of a
periodical attack of heart disease; and this in its turn may be the result
of a nervous complaint, and this latter the consequence of ——(16)

So long as genius dwells within us we are full of audacity, yea, almost
mad, and heedless of health, life, and honour; we fly through the day as
free and swift as an eagle, and in the darkness we feel as confident as an
owl.—But let genius once leave us and we are instantly overcome by a
feeling of the most profound despondency: we can no longer understand
ourselves; we suffer from everything that we experience and do not
experience; we feel as if we were in the midst of shelterless rocks with
the tempest raging round us, and we are at the same time like pitiful
childish souls, afraid of a rustle or a shadow.—Three-fourths of all the
evil committed in the world is due to timidity; and this is above all a
physiological process.




539.


DO YOU KNOW WHAT YOU WANT?—Have you never been troubled by the fear that
you might not be at all fitted for recognising what is true? by the fear
that your senses might be too dull, and even your delicacy of sight far
too blunt? If you could only perceive, even once, to what extent your
volition dominates your sight! How, for example, you wished yesterday to
see more than some one else, while to-day you wish to see it differently!
and how from the start you were anxious to see something which would be in
conformity with or in opposition to anything that people thought they had
observed up to the present. Oh, those shameful cravings! How often you
keep your eyes open for what is efficacious, for what is soothing, just
because you happen to be tired at the moment! Always full of secret
predeterminations of what truth should be like, so that you—you,
forsooth!—might accept it! or do you think that to-day, because you are as
frozen and dry as a bright winter morning, and because nothing is weighing
on your mind, you have better eyesight! Are not ardour and enthusiasm
necessary to do justice to the creations of thought?—and this indeed is
what is called sight! as if you could treat matters of thought any
differently from the manner in which you treat men. In all relations with
thought there is the same morality, the same honesty of purpose, the same
_arrière-pensée_, the same slackness, the same faint-heartedness—your
whole lovable and hateful self! Your physical exhaustion will lend the
things pale colours whilst your feverishness will turn them into monsters!
Does not your morning show the things in a different light from the
evening? Are you not afraid of finding in the cave of all knowledge your
own phantom, the veil in which truth is wrapped up and hidden from your
sight? Is it not a dreadful comedy in which you so thoughtlessly wish to
take part?




540.


LEARNING.—Michelangelo considered Raphael’s genius as having been acquired
by study, and upon his own as a natural gift: learning as opposed to
talent; though this is mere pedantry, with all due respect to the great
pedant himself. For what is talent but a name for an older piece of
learning, experience, exercise, appropriation, and incorporation, perhaps
as far back as the times of our ancestors, or even earlier! And again: he
who learns forms his own talents, only learning is not such an easy matter
and depends not only upon our willingness, but also upon our being able to
learn at all.

Jealousy often prevents this in an artist, or that pride which, when it
experiences any strange feeling, at once assumes an attitude of defence
instead of an attitude of scholarly receptiveness. Raphael, like Goethe,
lacked this pride, on which account they were great learners, and not
merely the exploiters of those quarries which had been formed by the
manifold genealogy of their forefathers. Raphael vanishes before our eyes
as a learner in the midst of that assimilation of what his great rival
called _his_ “nature”: this noblest of all thieves daily carried off a
portion of it; but before he had appropriated all the genius of
Michelangelo he died—and the final series of his works, because it is the
beginning of a new plan of study, is less perfect and good, for the simple
reason that the great student was interrupted by death in the midst of his
most difficult task, and took away with him that justifying and final goal
which he had in view.




541.


HOW WE SHOULD TURN TO STONE.—By slowly, very, very slowly, becoming hard
like a precious stone, and at last lie still, a joy to all eternity.




542.


THE PHILOSOPHER AND OLD AGE.—It is not wise to permit evening to act as a
judge of the day; for only too often in this case weariness becomes the
judge of success and good will. We should also take the greatest
precautions in regard to everything connected with old age and its
judgment upon life, more especially since old age, like the evening, is
fond of assuming a new and charming morality, and knows well enough how to
humiliate the day by the glow of the evening skies, twilight and a
peaceful and wistful silence. The reverence which we feel for an old man,
especially if he is an old thinker and sage, easily blinds us to the
deterioration of his intellect, and it is always necessary to bring to
light the hidden symptoms of such a deterioration and lassitude, that is
to say, to uncover the physiological phenomenon which is still concealed
behind the old man’s moral judgments and prejudices, in case we should be
deceived by our veneration for him, and do something to the disadvantage
of knowledge. For it is not seldom that the illusion of a great moral
renovation and regeneration takes possession of the old man. Basing his
views upon this, he then proceeds to express his opinions on the work and
development of his life as if he had only then for the first time become
clearsighted—and nevertheless it is not wisdom, but fatigue, which prompts
his present state of well-being and his positive judgments.

The most dangerous indication of this weariness is above all the belief in
genius, which as a rule only arises in great and semi-great men of
intellect at this period of their lives: the belief in an exceptional
position, and exceptional rights. The thinker who thus believes himself to
be inspired by genius henceforth deems it permissible for him to take
things more easily, and takes advantage of his position as a genius to
decree rather than to prove. It is probable, however, that the need felt
by the weary intellect for alleviation is the main source of this
belief—it precedes it in time, though appearances may indicate the
contrary.

At this time too, as the result of the love which all weary and old people
feel for enjoyment, such men as those I am speaking of wish to enjoy the
results of their thinking instead of again testing them and scattering the
seeds abroad once more. This leads them to make their thoughts palatable
and enjoyable, and to take away their dryness, coldness, and want of
flavour; and thus it comes about that the old thinker apparently raises
himself above his life’s work, while in reality he spoils it by infusing
into it a certain amount of fantasy, sweetness, flavour, poetic mists, and
mystic lights. This is how Plato ended, as did also that great and honest
Frenchman, Auguste Comte, who, as a conqueror of the exact sciences,
cannot be matched either among the Germans or the Englishmen of this
century.

There is a third symptom of fatigue: that ambition which actuated the
great thinker when he was young, and which could not then find anything to
satisfy it, has also grown old, and, like one that has no more time to
lose, it begins to snatch at the coarser and more immediate means of its
gratification, means which are peculiar to active, dominating, violent,
and conquering dispositions. From this time onwards the thinker wishes to
found institutions which shall bear his name, instead of erecting mere
brain-structures. What are now to him the ethereal victories and honours
to be met with in the realm of proofs and refutations, or the perpetuation
of his fame in books, or the thrill of exultation in the soul of the
reader? But the institution, on the other hand, is a temple, as he well
knows—a temple of stone, a durable edifice, which will keep its god alive
with more certainty than the sacrifices of rare and tender souls.(17)

Perhaps, too, at this period of his life the old thinker will for the
first time meet with that love which is fitted for a god rather than for a
human being, and his whole nature becomes softened and sweetened in the
rays of such a sun, like fruit in autumn. Yes, he grows more divine and
beautiful, this great old man,—and nevertheless it is old age and
weariness which permit him to ripen in this way, to grow more silent, and
to repose in the luminous adulation of a woman. Now it is all up with his
former desire—a desire which was superior even to his own ego—for real
disciples, followers who would carry on his thought, that is, true
opponents. This desire arose from his hitherto undiminished energy, the
conscious pride he felt in being able at any time to become an opponent
himself,—nay, even the deadly enemy of his own doctrine,—but now his
desire is for resolute partisans, unwavering comrades, auxiliary forces,
heralds, a pompous train of followers. He is now no longer able to bear
that dreadful isolation in which every intellect that advances beyond the
others is compelled to live. From this time forward he surrounds himself
with objects of veneration, companionship, tenderness, and love; but he
also wishes to enjoy the privileges of all religious people, and to
worship what he venerates most highly in his little community—he will even
go as far as to invent a religion for the purpose of having a community.

Thus lives the wise old man, and in living thus he falls almost
imperceptibly into such a deplorable proximity to priestly and poetic
extravagances that it is difficult to recollect all his wise and severe
period of youth, the former rigid morality of his mind, and his truly
virile dread of fancies and misplaced enthusiasm. When he was formerly in
the habit of comparing himself with the older thinkers, he did so merely
that he might measure his weakness against their strength, and that he
might become colder and more audacious towards himself; but now he only
makes this comparison to intoxicate himself with his own delusions.
Formerly he looked forward with confidence to future thinkers, and he even
took a delight in imagining himself to be cast into the shade by their
brighter light. Now, however, he is mortified to think that he cannot be
the last: he endeavours to discover some way of imposing upon mankind,
together with the inheritance which he is leaving to them, a restriction
of sovereign thinking. He fears and reviles the pride and the love of
freedom of individual minds: after him no one must allow his intellect to
govern with absolute unrestriction: he himself wishes to remain for ever
the bulwark on which the waves of ideas may break—these are his secret
wishes, and perhaps, indeed, they are not always secret.

The hard fact upon which such wishes are based, however, is that he
himself has come to a halt before his teaching, and has set up his
boundary stone, his “thus far and no farther.” In canonising himself he
has drawn up his own death warrant: from now on his mind cannot develop
further. His race is run; the hour-hand stops. Whenever a great thinker
tries to make himself a lasting institution for posterity, we may readily
suppose that he has passed the climax of his powers, and is very tired,
very near the setting of his sun.




543.


WE MUST NOT MAKE PASSION AN ARGUMENT FOR TRUTH.—Oh, you kind-hearted and
even noble enthusiasts, I know you! You wish to seem right in our eyes as
well as in your own, but especially in your own!—and an irritable and
subtle evil conscience so often spurs you on against your very enthusiasm!
How ingenious you then become in deceiving your conscience, and lulling it
to sleep! How you hate honest, simple, and clean souls; how you avoid
their innocent glances! That better knowledge whose representatives they
are, and whose voice you hear only too distinctly within yourselves when
it questions your belief,—how you try to cast suspicion upon it as a bad
habit, as a disease of the age, as the neglect and infection of your own
intellectual health! It drives you on to hate even criticism, science,
reason! You must falsify history to make it testify in your favour; you
must deny virtues in case they should obscure those of your own idols and
ideals.

Coloured images where arguments are needed! Ardour and power of
expression! Silver mists! Ambrosian nights! well do you know how to
enlighten and to darken—to darken by means of light! and indeed when your
passion can no longer be kept within bounds the moment comes when you say
to yourselves, “Now I have won for myself a good conscience, now I am
exalted, courageous, self-denying, magnanimous; now I am honest!” How you
long for these moments when your passion will confer upon you full and
absolute rights, and also, as it were, innocence. How happy you are when
engaged in battle and inspired with ecstasy or courage, when you are
elated beyond yourself, when gnawing doubt has left you, and when you can
even decree: “Any man who is not in ecstasy as we are cannot by any chance
know what or where truth is.” How you long to meet with those who share
your belief in this state—which is a state of intellectual depravity—and
to set your own fire alight with their flames! Oh, for your martyrdom,
your victory of the sanctified lie! Must you really inflict so much pain
upon yourselves?—_Must_ you?




544.


HOW PHILOSOPHY IS NOW PRACTISED.—I can see quite well that our
philosophising youths, women, and artists require from philosophy exactly
the opposite of what the Greeks derived from it. What does he who does not
hear the continual exultation that resounds through every speech and
counter-argument in a Platonic dialogue, this exultation over the new
invention of rational thinking, know about Plato or about ancient
philosophy? At that time souls were filled with enthusiasm when they gave
themselves up to the severe and sober sport of ideas, generalisations,
refutations,—that enthusiasm which perhaps those old, great, severe, and
prudent contrapuntists in music have also known. At that time the Greek
palate still possessed that older and formerly omnipotent taste: and by
the side of this taste their new taste appeared to be enveloped in so much
charm that the divine art of dialectic was sung by hesitating voices as if
its followers were intoxicated with the frenzy of love. That old form of
thinking, however, was thought within the bounds of morality, and for it
nothing existed but fixed judgments and established facts, and it had no
reasons but those of authority. Thinking, therefore, was simply a matter
of repetition, and all the enjoyment of speech and dialogue could only lie
in their form.

Wherever the substance of a thing is looked upon as eternal and
universally approved, there is only one great charm, the charm of variable
forms, that is, of fashion. Even in the poets ever since the time of
Homer, and later on in the case of the sculptors, the Greeks did not enjoy
originality, but its contrary. It was Socrates who discovered another
charm, that of cause and effect, of reason and sequence, and we moderns
have become so used to it, and have been brought up to the necessity of
logic that we look upon it as the normal taste, and as such it cannot but
be repugnant to ardent and presumptuous people. Such people are pleased by
whatever stands out boldly from the normal: their more subtle ambition
leads them to believe only too readily that they are exceptional souls,
not dialectic and rational beings, but, let us say, “intuitive” beings
gifted with an “inner sense,” or with a certain “intellectual perception.”
Above all, however, they wish to be “artistic natures” with a genius in
their heads, and a demon in their bodies, and consequently with special
rights in this world and in the world to come—especially the divine
privilege of being incomprehensible.

And people like these are “going in for” philosophy nowadays! I fear they
will discover one day that they have made a mistake—what they are looking
for is religion!




545.


BUT WE DO NOT BELIEVE YOU.—You would fain pass for psychologists, but we
shall not allow it! Are we not to notice that you pretend to be more
experienced, profound, passionate, and perfect than you actually are?—just
as we notice in yonder painter that there is a trifling presumptuousness
in his manner of wielding the brush, and in yonder musician that he brings
forward his theme with the desire to make it appear superior to what it
really is. Have you experienced history within yourselves, commotions,
earthquakes, long and profound sadness, and sudden flashes of happiness?
Have you acted foolishly with great and little fools? Have you really
undergone the delusions and woe of the good people? and also the woe and
the peculiar happiness of the most evil? Then you may speak to me of
morality, but not otherwise!




546.


SLAVE AND IDEALIST.—The followers of Epictetus would doubtless not be to
the taste of those who are now striving after the ideal. The constant
tension of his being, the indefatigable inward glance, the prudent and
reserved incommunicativeness of his eye whenever it happens to gaze upon
the outer world, and above all, his silence or laconic speech: all these
are characteristics of the strictest fortitude,—and what would our
idealists, who above all else are desirous of expansion, care for this?
But in spite of all this the Stoic is not fanatical. He detests the
display and boasting of our idealists: his pride, however great it may be,
is not eager to disturb others. It permits of a certain gentle approach,
and has no desire to spoil anybody’s good humour—nay, it can even smile. A
great deal of ancient humanity is to be seen exemplified in this ideal.
The most excellent feature about it, however, is that the thinker is
completely free from the fear of God, strictly believes in reason, and is
no preacher of penitence.

Epictetus was a slave: his ideal man is without any particular rank, and
may exist in any grade of society, but above all he is to be sought in the
deepest and lowest social classes, as the silent and self-sufficient man
in the midst of a general state of servitude, a man who defends himself
alone against the outer world, and is constantly living in a state of the
highest fortitude. He is distinguished from the Christian especially,
because the latter lives in hope in the promise of “unspeakable glory,”
permits presents to be made to him, and expects and accepts the best
things from divine love and grace, and not from himself. Epictetus, on the
other hand, neither hopes nor allows his best treasure to be given him—he
possesses it already, holds it bravely in his hand, and defies the world
to take it away from him. Christianity was devised for another class of
ancient slaves, for those who had a weak will and weak reason—that is to
say, for the majority of slaves.




547.


THE TYRANTS OF THE INTELLECT.—The progress of science is at the present
time no longer hindered by the purely accidental fact that man attains to
about seventy years, which was the case far too long. In former times
people wished to master the entire extent of knowledge within this period,
and all the methods of knowledge were valued according to this general
desire. Minor questions and individual experiments were looked upon as
unworthy of notice: people wanted to take the shortest path under the
impression that, since everything in this world seemed to be arranged with
a view to man’s needs, even the acquirement of knowledge was regulated in
view of the limits of human life.

To solve everything at a single stroke, with one word—this was the secret
desire; and the task was represented in the symbol of the Gordian knot or
the egg of Columbus. No one doubted that it was possible to reach the goal
of knowledge after the manner of Alexander or Columbus, and to settle all
questions with one answer. “There is a mystery to be solved,” seemed to be
the aim of life in the eyes of the philosopher: it was necessary in the
first place to find out what this enigma was, and to condense the problem
of the world into the simplest enigmatical formula possible. The boundless
ambition and delight of being the “unraveller of the world” charmed the
dreams of many a thinker: nothing seemed to him worth troubling about in
this world but the means of bringing everything to a satisfactory
conclusion. Philosophy thus became a kind of supreme struggle for the
tyrannical sway over the intellect, and no one doubted that such a
tyrannical domination was reserved for some very happy, subtle, ingenious,
bold, and powerful person—a single individual!—and many (the last was
Schopenhauer) fancied themselves to be this privileged person.

From this it follows that, on the whole, science has up to the present
remained in a rather backward state owing to the moral narrow-mindedness
of its disciples, and that henceforth it will have to be pursued from a
higher and more generous motive. “What do I matter?” is written over the
door of the thinker of the future.




548.


VICTORY OVER POWER.—If we consider all that has been venerated up to the
present as “superhuman intellect” or “genius,” we must come to the sad
conclusion that, considered as a whole, the intellectuality of mankind
must have been extremely low and poor: so little mind has hitherto been
necessary in order to feel at once considerably superior to all this! Alas
for the cheap glory of “genius”! How quickly has it been raised to the
throne, and its worship grown into a custom! We still fall on our knees
before power—according to the old custom of slaves—and nevertheless, when
the degree of venerability comes to be determined, only the degree of
reason in the power will be the deciding factor. We must find out, indeed,
to how great an extent power has been overcome by something higher, which
it now obeys as a tool and instrument.

As yet, however, there have been too few eyes for such investigations:
even in the majority of cases the mere valuation of genius has almost been
looked upon as blasphemy. And thus perhaps everything that is most
beautiful still takes place in the midst of darkness and vanishes in
endless night almost as soon as it has made its appearance,—I refer to the
spectacle of that power which a genius does not lay out upon works, but
upon himself as a work, that is, his own self-control, the purifying of
his own imagination, the order and selection in his inspirations and
tasks. The great man ever remains invisible in the greatest thing that
claims worship, like some distant star: his victory over power remains
without witnesses, and hence also without songs and singers. The hierarchy
of the great men in all the past history of the human race has not yet
been determined.




549.


FLIGHT FROM ONE’S SELF.—Those sufferers from intellectual spasms who are
impatient towards themselves and look upon themselves with a gloomy
eye—such as Byron or Alfred de Musset—and who, in everything that they do,
resemble runaway horses, and from their own works derive only a transient
joy and an ardent passion which almost bursts their veins, followed by
sterility and disenchantment—how are they able to bear up! They would fain
attain to something “beyond themselves.” If we happen to be Christians,
and are seized by such a desire as this, we strive to reach God and to
become one with Him; if we are a Shakespeare we shall be glad to perish in
images of a passionate life; if we are like Byron we long for actions,
because these detach us from ourselves to an even greater extent than
thoughts, feelings, and works.

And should the desire for performing great deeds really be at bottom
nothing but a flight from our own selves?—as Pascal would ask us. And
indeed this assertion might be proved by considering the most noble
representations of this desire for action: in this respect let us
remember, bringing the knowledge of an alienist to our aid, that four of
the greatest men of all ages who were possessed of this lust for action
were epileptics—Alexander the Great, Cæsar, Mohammed, and Napoleon; and
Byron likewise was subject to the same complaint.




550.


KNOWLEDGE AND BEAUTY.—If men, as they are still in the habit of doing,
reserve their veneration and feelings of happiness for works of fancy and
imagination, we should not be surprised if they feel chilled and
displeased by the contrary of fancy and imagination. The rapture which
arises from even the smallest, sure, and definite step in advance into
insight, and which our present state of science yields to so many in such
abundance—this rapture is in the meantime not believed in by all those who
are in the habit of feeling enraptured only when they leave reality
altogether and plunge into the depths of vague appearance—romanticism.
These people look upon reality as ugly, but they entirely overlook the
fact that the knowledge of even the ugliest reality is beautiful, and that
the man who can discern much and often is in the end very far from
considering as ugly the main items of that reality, the discovery of which
has always inspired him with the feeling of happiness.

Is there anything “beautiful in itself”? The happiness of those who can
recognise augments the beauty of the world, bathing everything that exists
in a sunnier light: discernment not only envelops all things in its own
beauty, but in the long run permeates the things themselves with its
beauty—may ages to come bear witness to the truth of this statement! In
the meantime let us recall an old experience: two men so thoroughly
different in every respect as Plato and Aristotle were agreed in regard to
what constituted superior happiness—not merely their own and that of men
in general, but happiness in itself, even the happiness of the gods. They
found this happiness to lie in knowledge, in the activity of a well
practised and inventive understanding (not in “intuition” like the German
theologians and semi-theologians; not in visions, like the mystics; and
not in work, like the merely practical men). Similar opinions were
expressed by Descartes and Spinoza. What great delight must all these men
have felt in knowledge! and how great was the danger that their honesty
might give way, and that they themselves might become panegyrists of
things!




551.


FUTURE VIRTUES.—How has it come about that, the more intelligible the
world has become, the more all kinds of ceremonies have diminished? Was
fear so frequently the fundamental basis of that awe which overcame us at
the sight of anything hitherto unknown and mysterious, and which taught us
to fall upon our knees before the unintelligible, and to beg for mercy?
And has the world, perhaps, through the very fact that we have grown less
timid, lost some of the charms it formerly had for us? Is it not possible
that our own dignity and stateliness, our formidable character, has
decreased together with our spirit of dread? Perhaps we value the world
and ourselves less highly since we have begun to think more boldly about
it and ourselves? Perhaps there will come a moment in the future when this
courageous spirit of thinking will have reached such a point that it will
feel itself soaring in supreme pride, far above men and things—when the
wise man, being also the boldest, will see himself and even more
particularly existence, the lowest of all beneath himself?

This type of courage, which is not far removed from excessive generosity,
has been lacking in humanity up to the present.—Oh, that our poets might
once again become what they once were: seers, telling us something about
what might possibly happen! now that what is real and what is past are
being ever more and more taken from them, and must continue to be taken
from them—for the time of innocent counterfeiting is at an end! Let them
try to enable us to anticipate future virtues, or virtues that will never
be found on earth, although they may exist somewhere in the
world!—purple-glowing constellations and whole Milky Ways of the
beautiful! Where are ye, ye astronomers of the ideal?




552.


IDEAL SELFISHNESS.—Is there a more sacred state than that of pregnancy? To
perform every one of our actions in the silent conviction that in one way
or another it will be to the benefit of that which is being generated
within us—that it must augment its mysterious value, the very thought of
which fills us with rapture? At such a time we refrain from many things
without having to force ourselves to do so: we suppress the angry word, we
grasp the hand forgivingly; our child must be born from all that is best
and gentlest. We shun our own harshness and brusqueness in case it should
instil a drop of unhappiness into the cup of the beloved unknown.
Everything is veiled, ominous; we know nothing about what is going on, but
simply wait and try to be prepared. During this time, too, we experience a
pure and purifying feeling of profound irresponsibility, similar to that
felt by a spectator before a drawn curtain; _it_ is growing, _it_ is
coming to light; we have nothing to do with determining its value, or the
hour of its arrival. We are thrown back altogether upon indirect,
beneficent and defensive influences. “Something greater than we are is
growing here”—such is our most secret hope: we prepare everything with a
view to his birth and prosperity—not merely everything that is useful, but
also the noblest gifts of our souls.

We should, and can, live under the influence of such a blessed
inspiration! Whether what we are looking forward to is a thought or a
deed, our relationship to every essential achievement is none other than
that of pregnancy, and all our vainglorious boasting about “willing” and
“creating” should be cast to the winds! True and ideal selfishness
consists in always watching over and restraining the soul, so that our
productiveness may come to a beautiful termination. Thus in this indirect
manner we must provide for and watch over the good of all; and the frame
of mind, the mood in which we live, is a kind of soothing oil which
spreads far around us on the restless souls.—Still, these pregnant ones
are funny people! let us therefore dare to be funny also, and not reproach
others if they must be the same. And even when this phenomenon becomes
dangerous and evil we must not show less respect to that which is
generating within us or others than ordinary worldly justice, which does
not allow the judge or the hangman to interfere with a pregnant woman.




553.


CIRCUITOUS ROUTES.—Where does all this philosophy mean to end with its
circuitous routes? Does it do more than transpose into reason, so to
speak, a continuous and strong impulse—a craving for a mild sun, a bright
and bracing atmosphere, southern plants, sea breezes, short meals of meat,
eggs, and fruit, hot water to drink, quiet walks for days at a time,
little talking, rare and cautious reading, living alone, pure, simple, and
almost soldier-like habits—a craving, in short, for all things which are
suited to my own personal taste? a philosophy which is in the main the
instinct for a personal regimen—an instinct that longs for my air, my
height, my temperature, and my kind of health, and takes the circuitous
route of my head to persuade me to it!

There are many other and certainly more lofty philosophies, and not only
such as are more gloomy and pretentious than mine—and are they perhaps,
taking them as a whole, nothing but intellectual circuitous routes of the
same kind of personal impulses?—In the meantime I look with a new eye upon
the mysterious and solitary flight of a butterfly high on the rocky banks
of the lake where so many plants are growing: there it flies hither and
thither, heedless of the fact that its life will last only one more day,
and that the night will be too cold for its winged fragility. For it, too,
a philosophy might be found, though it might not be my own.




554.


LEADING.(18)—When we praise progress we only praise the movement and those
who do not let us remain on the same spot, and in the circumstances this
is certainly something, especially if we live among Egyptians. In
changeable Europe, however, where movement is “understood,” to use their
own expression, “as a matter of course”—alas, if _we_ only understood
something about it too!—I praise leaders and forerunners: that is to say,
those who always leave themselves behind, and do not care in the least
whether any one is following them or not. “Wherever I halt I find myself
alone: why should I halt! the desert is still so wide!”—such is the
sentiment of the true leader.




555.


THE LEAST IMPORTANT ARE SUFFICIENT.—We ought to avoid events when we know
that even the least important of them frequently enough leave a strong
impression upon us—and these we cannot avoid.—The thinker must possess an
approximate canon of all the things he still wishes to experience.




556.


THE FOUR VIRTUES.—Honest towards ourselves, and to all and everything
friendly to us; brave in the face of our enemy; generous towards the
vanquished; polite at all times: such do the four cardinal virtues wish us
to be.




557.


MARCHING AGAINST AN ENEMY.—How pleasant is the sound of even bad music and
bad motives when we are setting out to march against an enemy!




558.


NOT CONCEALING ONE’S VIRTUES.—I love those men who are as transparent as
water, and who, to use Pope’s expression, hide not from view the turbid
bottom of their stream. Even they, however, possess a certain vanity,
though of a rare and more sublimated kind: some of them would wish us to
see nothing but the mud, and to take no notice of the clearness of the
water which enables us to look right to the bottom. No less a man than
Gautama Buddha has imagined the vanity of these few in the formula, “Let
your sins appear before men, and conceal your virtues.” But this would
exhibit a disagreeable spectacle to the world—it would be a sin against
good taste.




559.


"NOTHING IN EXCESS!"—How often is the individual recommended to set up a
goal which it is beyond his power to reach, in order that he may at least
attain that which lies within the scope of his abilities and most
strenuous efforts! Is it really so desirable, however, that he should do
so? Do not the best men who try to act according to this doctrine,
together with their best deeds, necessarily assume a somewhat exaggerated
and distorted appearance on account of their excessive tension? and in the
future will not a grey mist of failure envelop the world, owing to the
fact that we may see everywhere struggling athletes and tremendous
gestures, but nowhere a conqueror crowned with the laurel, and rejoicing
in his victory?




560.


WHAT WE ARE FREE TO DO.—We can act as the gardeners of our impulses,
and—which few people know—we may cultivate the seeds of anger, pity,
vanity, or excessive brooding, and make these things fecund and
productive, just as we can train a beautiful plant to grow along
trellis-work. We may do this with the good or bad taste of a gardener, and
as it were, in the French, English, Dutch, or Chinese style. We may let
nature take its own course, only trimming and embellishing a little here
and there; and finally, without any knowledge or consideration, we may
even allow the plants to spring up in accordance with their own natural
growth and limitations, and fight out their battle among themselves,—nay,
we can even take delight in such chaos, though we may possibly have a hard
time with it! All this is at our option: but how many know that it is? Do
not the majority of people believe in themselves as complete and perfect
facts? and have not the great philosophers set their seal on this
prejudice through their doctrine of the unchangeability of character?




561.


LETTING OUR HAPPINESS ALSO SHINE.—In the same way as painters are unable
to reproduce the deep brilliant hue of the natural sky, and are compelled
to use all the colours they require for their landscapes a few shades
deeper than nature has made them—just as they, by means of this trick,
succeed in approaching the brilliancy and harmony of nature’s own hues, so
also must poets and philosophers, for whom the luminous rays of happiness
are inaccessible, endeavour to find an expedient. By picturing all things
a shade or two darker than they really are, their light, in which they
excel, will produce almost exactly the same effect as the sunlight, and
will resemble the light of true happiness.—The pessimist, on the other
hand, who paints all things in the blackest and most sombre hues, only
makes use of bright flames, lightning, celestial glories, and everything
that possesses a glaring, dazzling power, and bewilders our eyes: to him
light only serves the purpose of increasing the horror, and of making us
look upon things as being more dreadful than they really are.




562.


THE SETTLED AND THE FREE.—It is only in the Underworld that we catch a
glimpse of that gloomy background of all that bliss of adventure which
forms an everlasting halo around Ulysses and his like, rivalling the
eternal phosphorescence of the sea,—that background which we can never
forget: the mother of Ulysses died of grief and yearning for her child.
The one is driven on from place to place, and the heart of the other, the
tender stay-at-home friend, breaks through it—so it always is. Affliction
breaks the hearts of those who live to see that those whom they love best
are deserting their former views and faith,—it is a tragedy brought about
by the free spirits,—a tragedy which, indeed, occasionally comes to their
own knowledge. Then, perhaps, they too, like Ulysses, will be forced to
descend among the dead to get rid of their sorrow and to relieve their
affliction.




563.


THE ILLUSION OF THE MORAL ORDER OF THE UNIVERSE.—There is no “eternal
justice” which requires that every fault shall be atoned and paid for,—the
belief that such a justice existed was a terrible delusion, and useful
only to a limited extent; just as it is also a delusion that everything is
guilt which is felt as such. It is not the things themselves, but the
opinions about things that do not exist, which have been such a source of
trouble to mankind.




564.


BY THE SIDE OF EXPERIENCE.—Even great intellects have only a hand-breadth
experience—in the immediate proximity of this experience their reflection
ceases, and its place is taken by unlimited vacuity and stupidity.




565.


DIGNITY AND IGNORANCE.—Wherever we understand we become amiable, happy,
and ingenious; and when we have learnt enough, and have trained our eyes
and ears, our souls show greater plasticity and charm. We understand so
little, however, and are so insufficiently informed, that it rarely
happens that we seize upon a thing and make ourselves lovable at the same
time,—on the contrary we pass through cities, nature, and history with
stiffness and indifference, at the same time taking a pride in our stiff
and indifferent attitude, as if it were simply due to superiority. Thus
our ignorance and our mediocre desire for knowledge understand quite well
how to assume a mask of dignity and character.




566.


LIVING CHEAPLY.—The cheapest and most innocent mode of life is that of the
thinker; for, to mention at once its most important feature, he has the
greatest need of those very things which others neglect and look upon with
contempt. In the second place he is easily pleased and has no desire for
any expensive pleasures. His task is not difficult, but, so to speak,
southern; his days and nights are not wasted by remorse; he moves, eats,
drinks, and sleeps in a manner suited to his intellect, in order that it
may grow calmer, stronger, and clearer. Again, he takes pleasure in his
body and has no reason to fear it; he does not require society, except
from time to time in order that he may afterwards go back to his solitude
with even greater delight. He seeks and finds in the dead compensation for
the living, and can even replace his friends in this way—viz., by seeking
out among the dead the best who have ever lived.—Let us consider whether
it is not the contrary desires and habits which have made the life of man
expensive, and as a consequence difficult and often unbearable. In another
sense, however, the thinker’s life is certainly the most expensive, for
nothing is too good for him; and it would be an intolerable privation for
him to be deprived of the best.




567.


IN THE FIELD.—“We should take things more cheerfully than they deserve;
especially because for a very long time we have taken them more seriously
than they deserved.” So speak the brave soldiers of knowledge.




568.


POET AND BIRD.—The bird Phœnix showed the poet a glowing scroll which was
being gradually consumed in the flames. “Be not alarmed,” said the bird,
“it is your work! It does not contain the spirit of the age, and to a
still less extent the spirit of those who are against the age: so it must
be burnt. But that is a good sign. There is many a dawn of day.”




569.


TO THE LONELY ONES.—If we do not respect the honour of others in our
soliloquies as well as in what we say publicly, we are not gentlemen.




570.


LOSSES.—There are some losses which communicate to the soul a sublimity in
which it ceases from wailing, and wanders about silently, as if in the
shade of some high and dark cypresses.




571.


THE BATTLE-FIELD DISPENSARY OF THE SOUL.—What is the most efficacious
remedy?—Victory.




572.


LIFE SHALL COMFORT US.—If, like the thinker, we live habitually amid the
great current of ideas and feelings, and even our dreams follow this
current, we expect comfort and peacefulness from life, while others wish
to rest from life when they give themselves up to meditation.




573.


CASTING ONE’S SKIN.—The snake that cannot cast its skin perishes. So too
with those minds which are prevented from changing their views: they cease
to be minds.




574.


NEVER FORGET!—The higher we soar the smaller we appear to those who cannot
fly.




575.


WE AERONAUTS OF THE INTELLECT.—All those daring birds that soar far and
ever farther into space, will somewhere or other be certain to find
themselves unable to continue their flight, and they will perch on a mast
or some narrow ledge—and will be grateful even for this miserable
accommodation! But who could conclude from this that there was not an
endless free space stretching far in front of them, and that they had
flown as far as they possibly could? In the end, however, all our great
teachers and predecessors have come to a standstill, and it is by no means
in the noblest or most graceful attitude that their weariness has brought
them to a pause: the same thing will happen to you and me! but what does
this matter to either of us? _Other birds will fly farther!_ Our minds and
hopes vie with them far out and on high; they rise far above our heads and
our failures, and from this height they look far into the distant horizon
and see hundreds of birds much more powerful than we are, striving whither
we ourselves have also striven, and where all is sea, sea, and nothing but
sea!

And where, then, are we aiming at? Do we wish to cross the sea? whither
does this over-powering passion urge us, this passion which we value more
highly than any other delight? Why do we fly precisely in this direction,
where all the suns of humanity have hitherto set? Is it possible that
people may one day say of us that we also steered westward, hoping to
reach India—but that it was our fate to be wrecked on the infinite? Or, my
brethren? or—?






AN ATTEMPT AT SELF-CRITICISM.



I.


Whatever may lie at the bottom of this doubtful book must be a
question of the first rank and attractiveness, moreover a deeply
personal question,--in proof thereof observe the time in which it
originated, _in spite_ of which it originated, the exciting period
of the Franco-German war of 1870-71. While the thunder of the battle
of Wörth rolled over Europe, the ruminator and riddle-lover, who had
to be the parent of this book, sat somewhere in a nook of the Alps,
lost in riddles and ruminations, consequently very much concerned and
unconcerned at the same time, and wrote down his meditations on the
_Greeks,_--the kernel of the curious and almost inaccessible book, to
which this belated prologue (or epilogue) is to be devoted. A few weeks
later: and he found himself under the walls of Metz, still wrestling
with the notes of interrogation he had set down concerning the alleged
"cheerfulness" of the Greeks and of Greek art; till at last, in that
month of deep suspense, when peace was debated at Versailles, he too
attained to peace with himself, and, slowly recovering from a disease
brought home from the field, made up his mind definitely regarding the
"Birth of Tragedy from the Spirit of _Music."_--From music? Music and
Tragedy? Greeks and tragic music? Greeks and the Art-work of pessimism?
A race of men, well-fashioned, beautiful, envied, life-inspiring, like
no other race hitherto, the Greeks--indeed? The Greeks were _in need_
of tragedy? Yea--of art? Wherefore--Greek art?...

We can thus guess where the great note of interrogation concerning the
value of existence had been set. Is pessimism _necessarily_ the sign of
decline, of decay, of failure, of exhausted and weakened instincts?--as
was the case with the Indians, as is, to all appearance, the case with
us "modern" men and Europeans? Is there a pessimism of _strength_? An
intellectual predilection for what is hard, awful, evil, problematical
in existence, owing to well-being, to exuberant health, to _fullness_
of existence? Is there perhaps suffering in overfullness itself? A
seductive fortitude with the keenest of glances, which _yearns_ for
the terrible, as for the enemy, the worthy enemy, with whom it may try
its strength? from whom it is willing to learn what "fear" is? What
means _tragic_ myth to the Greeks of the best, strongest, bravest era?
And the prodigious phenomenon of the Dionysian? And that which was
born thereof, tragedy?--And again: that of which tragedy died, the
Socratism of morality, the dialectics, contentedness and cheerfulness
of the theoretical man--indeed? might not this very Socratism
be a sign of decline, of weariness, of disease, of anarchically
disintegrating instincts? And the "Hellenic cheerfulness" of the later
Hellenism merely a glowing sunset? The Epicurean will _counter_ to
pessimism merely a precaution of the sufferer? And science itself,
our science--ay, viewed as a symptom of life, what really signifies
all science? Whither, worse still, _whence_--all science? Well? Is
scientism perhaps only fear and evasion of pessimism? A subtle defence
against--_truth!_ Morally speaking, something like falsehood and
cowardice? And, unmorally speaking, an artifice? O Socrates, Socrates,
was this perhaps _thy_ secret? Oh mysterious ironist, was this perhaps
thine--irony?...



2.


What I then laid hands on, something terrible and dangerous, a
problem with horns, not necessarily a bull itself, but at all events
a _new_ problem: I should say to-day it was the _problem of science_
itself--science conceived for the first time as problematic, as
questionable. But the book, in which my youthful ardour and suspicion
then discharged themselves--what an _impossible_ book must needs
grow out of a task so disagreeable to youth. Constructed of nought
but precocious, unripened self-experiences, all of which lay close
to the threshold of the communicable, based on the groundwork of
_art_--for the problem of science cannot be discerned on the groundwork
of science,--a book perhaps for artists, with collateral analytical
and retrospective aptitudes (that is, an exceptional kind of artists,
for whom one must seek and does not even care to seek ...), full of
psychological innovations and artists' secrets, with an artists'
metaphysics in the background, a work of youth, full of youth's mettle
and youth's melancholy, independent, defiantly self-sufficient even
when it seems to bow to some authority and self-veneration; in short,
a firstling-work, even in every bad sense of the term; in spite of its
senile problem, affected with every fault of youth, above all with
youth's prolixity and youth's "storm and stress": on the other hand,
in view of the success it had (especially with the great artist to
whom it addressed itself, as it were, in a duologue, Richard Wagner) a
_demonstrated_ book, I mean a book which, at any rate, sufficed "for
the best of its time." On this account, if for no other reason, it
should be treated with some consideration and reserve; yet I shall not
altogether conceal how disagreeable it now appears to me, how after
sixteen years it stands a total stranger before me,--before an eye
which is more mature, and a hundred times more fastidious, but which
has by no means grown colder nor lost any of its interest in that
self-same task essayed for the first time by this daring book,--_to
view science through the optics of the artist, and art moreover through
the optics of life...._



3.


I say again, to-day it is an impossible book to me,--I call it badly
written, heavy, painful, image-angling and image-entangling, maudlin,
sugared at times even to femininism, uneven in tempo, void of the will
to logical cleanliness, very convinced and therefore rising above the
necessity of demonstration, distrustful even of the _propriety_ of
demonstration, as being a book for initiates, as "music" for those who
are baptised with the name of Music, who are united from the beginning
of things by common ties of rare experiences in art, as a countersign
for blood-relations _in artibus._--a haughty and fantastic book,
which from the very first withdraws even more from the _profanum
vulgus_ of the "cultured" than from the "people," but which also, as
its effect has shown and still shows, knows very well how to seek
fellow-enthusiasts and lure them to new by-ways and dancing-grounds.
Here, at any rate--thus much was acknowledged with curiosity as well
as with aversion--a _strange_ voice spoke, the disciple of a still
"unknown God," who for the time being had hidden himself under the
hood of the scholar, under the German's gravity and disinclination for
dialectics, even under the bad manners of the Wagnerian; here was a
spirit with strange and still nameless needs, a memory bristling with
questions, experiences and obscurities, beside which stood the name
Dionysos like one more note of interrogation; here spoke--people said
to themselves with misgivings--something like a mystic and almost
mænadic soul, which, undecided whether it should disclose or conceal
itself, stammers with an effort and capriciously as in a strange
tongue. It should have _sung,_ this "new soul"--and not spoken! What
a pity, that I did not dare to say what I then had to say, as a poet:
I could have done so perhaps! Or at least as a philologist:--for even
at the present day well-nigh everything in this domain remains to be
discovered and disinterred by the philologist! Above all the problem,
_that_ here there _is_ a problem before us,--and that, so long as we
have no answer to the question "what is Dionysian?" the Greeks are now
as ever wholly unknown and inconceivable....



4.


Ay, what is Dionysian?--In this book may be found an answer,--a
"knowing one" speaks here, the votary and disciple of his god.
Perhaps I should now speak more guardedly and less eloquently of a
psychological question so difficult as the origin of tragedy among the
Greeks. A fundamental question is the relation of the Greek to pain,
his degree of sensibility,--did this relation remain constant? or did
it veer about?--the question, whether his ever-increasing _longing
for beauty,_ for festivals, gaieties, new cults, did really grow out
of want, privation, melancholy, pain? For suppose even this to be
true--and Pericles (or Thucydides) intimates as much in the great
Funeral Speech:--whence then the opposite longing, which appeared
first in the order of time, the _longing for the ugly_, the good,
resolute desire of the Old Hellene for pessimism, for tragic myth, for
the picture of all that is terrible, evil, enigmatical, destructive,
fatal at the basis of existence,--whence then must tragedy have
sprung? Perhaps from _joy,_ from strength, from exuberant health, from
over-fullness. And what then, physiologically speaking, is the meaning
of that madness, out of which comic as well as tragic art has grown,
the Dionysian madness? What? perhaps madness is not necessarily the
symptom of degeneration, of decline, of belated culture? Perhaps there
are--a question for alienists--neuroses of _health_? of folk-youth
and youthfulness? What does that synthesis of god and goat in the
Satyr point to? What self-experience what "stress," made the Greek
think of the Dionysian reveller and primitive man as a satyr? And as
regards the origin of the tragic chorus: perhaps there were endemic
ecstasies in the eras when the Greek body bloomed and the Greek soul
brimmed over with life? Visions and hallucinations, which took hold
of entire communities, entire cult-assemblies? What if the Greeks
in the very wealth of their youth had the will _to be_ tragic and
were pessimists? What if it was madness itself, to use a word of
Plato's, which brought the _greatest_ blessings upon Hellas? And
what if, on the other hand and conversely, at the very time of their
dissolution and weakness, the Greeks became always more optimistic,
more superficial, more histrionic, also more ardent for logic and
the logicising of the world,--consequently at the same time more
"cheerful" and more "scientific"? Ay, despite all "modern ideas" and
prejudices of the democratic taste, may not the triumph of _optimism,_
the _common sense_ that has gained the upper hand, the practical and
theoretical _utilitarianism,_ like democracy itself, with which it is
synchronous--be symptomatic of declining vigour, of approaching age,
of physiological weariness? And _not_ at all--pessimism? Was Epicurus
an optimist--because a _sufferer_?... We see it is a whole bundle of
weighty questions which this book has taken upon itself,--let us not
fail to add its weightiest question! Viewed through the optics of
_life,_ what is the meaning of--morality?...



5.


Already in the foreword to Richard Wagner, art---and _not_ morality--is
set down as the properly _metaphysical_ activity of man; in the
book itself the piquant proposition recurs time and again, that the
existence of the world is _justified_ only as an æsthetic phenomenon.
Indeed, the entire book recognises only an artist-thought and
artist-after-thought behind all occurrences,--a "God," if you will,
but certainly only an altogether thoughtless and unmoral artist-God,
who, in construction as in destruction, in good as in evil, desires
to become conscious of his own equable joy and sovereign glory; who,
in creating worlds, frees himself from the _anguish_ of fullness
and _overfullness,_ from the _suffering_ of the contradictions
concentrated within him. The world, that is, the redemption of God
_attained_ at every moment, as the perpetually changing, perpetually
new vision of the most suffering, most antithetical, most contradictory
being, who contrives to redeem himself only in _appearance:_ this
entire artist-metaphysics, call it arbitrary, idle, fantastic, if
you will,--the point is, that it already betrays a spirit, which is
determined some day, at all hazards, to make a stand against the
_moral_ interpretation and significance of life. Here, perhaps for the
first time, a pessimism "Beyond Good and Evil" announces itself, here
that "perverseness of disposition" obtains expression and formulation,
against which Schopenhauer never grew tired of hurling beforehand his
angriest imprecations and thunderbolts,--a philosophy which dares to
put, derogatorily put, morality itself in the world of phenomena, and
not only among "phenomena" (in the sense of the idealistic _terminus
technicus_), but among the "illusions," as appearance, semblance,
error, interpretation, accommodation, art. Perhaps the depth of this
_antimoral_ tendency may be best estimated from the guarded and
hostile silence with which Christianity is treated throughout this
book,--Christianity, as being the most extravagant burlesque of the
moral theme to which mankind has hitherto been obliged to listen. In
fact, to the purely æsthetic world-interpretation and justification
taught in this book, there is no greater antithesis than the Christian
dogma, which is _only_ and will be only moral, and which, with
its absolute standards, for instance, its truthfulness of God,
relegates--that is, disowns, convicts, condemns--art, _all_ art, to
the realm of _falsehood._ Behind such a mode of thought and valuation,
which, if at all genuine, must be hostile to art, I always experienced
what was _hostile to life,_ the wrathful, vindictive counterwill to
life itself: for all life rests on appearance, art, illusion, optics,
necessity of perspective and error. From the very first Christianity
was, essentially and thoroughly, the nausea and surfeit of Life for
Life, which only disguised, concealed and decked itself out under the
belief in "another" or "better" life. The hatred of the "world," the
curse on the affections, the fear of beauty and sensuality, another
world, invented for the purpose of slandering this world the more,
at bottom a longing for. Nothingness, for the end, for rest, for the
"Sabbath of Sabbaths"--all this, as also the unconditional will of
Christianity to recognise _only_ moral values, has always appeared to
me as the most dangerous and ominous of all possible forms of a "will
to perish"; at the least, as the symptom of a most fatal disease, of
profoundest weariness, despondency, exhaustion, impoverishment of
life,--for before the tribunal of morality (especially Christian, that
is, unconditional morality) life _must_ constantly and inevitably be
the loser, because life _is_ something essentially unmoral,--indeed,
oppressed with the weight of contempt and the everlasting No, life
_must_ finally be regarded as unworthy of desire, as in itself
unworthy. Morality itself what?--may not morality be a "will to
disown life," a secret instinct for annihilation, a principle of
decay, of depreciation, of slander, a beginning of the end? And,
consequently, the danger of dangers?... It was _against_ morality,
therefore, that my instinct, as an intercessory-instinct for life,
turned in this questionable book, inventing for itself a fundamental
counter--dogma and counter-valuation of life, purely artistic, purely
_anti-Christian._ What should I call it? As a philologist and man of
words I baptised it, not without some liberty--for who could be sure
of the proper name of the Antichrist?--with the name of a Greek god: I
called it _Dionysian._



6.


You see which problem I ventured to touch upon in this early work?...
How I now regret, that I had not then the courage (or immodesty?) to
allow myself, in all respects, the use of an _individual language_
for such _individual_ contemplations and ventures in the field of
thought--that I laboured to express, in Kantian and Schopenhauerian
formulæ, strange and new valuations, which ran fundamentally counter
to the spirit of Kant and Schopenhauer, as well as to their taste!
What, forsooth, were Schopenhauer's views on tragedy? "What gives"--he
says in _Welt als Wille und Vorstellung,_ II. 495--"to all tragedy
that singular swing towards elevation, is the awakening of the
knowledge that the world, that life, cannot satisfy us thoroughly,
and consequently is _not worthy_ of our attachment In this consists
the tragic spirit: it therefore leads to _resignation_." Oh, how
differently Dionysos spoke to me! Oh how far from me then was just
this entire resignationism!--But there is something far worse in this
book, which I now regret even more than having obscured and spoiled
Dionysian anticipations with Schopenhauerian formulæ: to wit, that, in
general, I _spoiled_ the grand _Hellenic problem,_ as it had opened
up before me, by the admixture of the most modern things! That I
entertained hopes, where nothing was to be hoped for, where everything
pointed all-too-clearly to an approaching end! That, on the basis of
our latter-day German music, I began to fable about the "spirit of
Teutonism," as if it were on the point of discovering and returning
to itself,--ay, at the very time that the German spirit which not so
very long before had had the will to the lordship over Europe, the
strength to lead and govern Europe, testamentarily and conclusively
_resigned_ and, under the pompous pretence of empire-founding,
effected its transition to mediocritisation, democracy, and "modern
ideas." In very fact, I have since learned to regard this "spirit of
Teutonism" as something to be despaired of and unsparingly treated,
as also our present _German music,_ which is Romanticism through and
through and the most un-Grecian of all possible forms of art: and
moreover a first-rate nerve-destroyer, doubly dangerous for a people
given to drinking and revering the unclear as a virtue, namely, in
its twofold capacity of an intoxicating and stupefying narcotic. Of
course, apart from all precipitate hopes and faulty applications to
matters specially modern, with which I then spoiled my first book, the
great Dionysian note of interrogation, as set down therein, continues
standing on and on, even with reference to music: how must we conceive
of a music, which is no longer of Romantic origin, like the German; but
of _Dionysian_?...



7.


--But, my dear Sir, if _your_ book is not Romanticism, what in
the world is? Can the deep hatred of the present, of "reality"
and "modern ideas" be pushed farther than has been done in your
artist-metaphysics?--which would rather believe in Nothing, or in
the devil, than in the "Now"? Does not a radical bass of wrath and
annihilative pleasure growl on beneath all your contrapuntal vocal
art and aural seduction, a mad determination to oppose all that "now"
is, a will which is not so very far removed from practical nihilism
and which seems to say: "rather let nothing be true, than that _you_
should be in the right, than that _your_ truth should prevail!"
Hear, yourself, my dear Sir Pessimist and art-deifier, with ever
so unlocked ears, a single select passage of your own book, that
not ineloquent dragon-slayer passage, which may sound insidiously
rat-charming to young ears and hearts. What? is not that the true
blue romanticist-confession of 1830 under the mask of the pessimism
of 1850? After which, of course, the usual romanticist finale at once
strikes up,--rupture, collapse, return and prostration before an old
belief, before _the_ old God.... What? is not your pessimist book
itself a piece of anti-Hellenism and Romanticism, something "equally
intoxicating and befogging," a narcotic at all events, ay, a piece of
music, of _German_ music? But listen:

    Let us imagine a rising generation with this undauntedness
    of vision, with this heroic impulse towards the prodigious,
    let us imagine the bold step of these dragon-slayers,
    the proud daring with which they turn their backs on all
    the effeminate doctrines of optimism, in order "to live
    resolutely" in the Whole and in the Full: _would it not be
    necessary_ for the tragic man of this culture, with his
    self-discipline to earnestness and terror, to desire a new
    art, _the art of metaphysical comfort,_ tragedy as the
    Helena belonging to him, and that he should exclaim with
    Faust:

        "Und sollt ich nicht, sehnsüchtigster Gewalt,
        In's Leben ziehn die einzigste Gestalt?"[1]


"Would it not be _necessary_?" ... No, thrice no! ye young
romanticists: it would _not_ be necessary! But it is very probable,
that things may _end_ thus, that _ye_ may end thus, namely "comforted,"
as it is written, in spite of all self-discipline to earnestness and
terror; metaphysically comforted, in short, as Romanticists are wont to
end, as _Christians...._ No! ye should first of all learn the art of
earthly comfort, ye should learn to _laugh,_ my young friends, if ye
are at all determined to remain pessimists: if so, you will perhaps,
as laughing ones, eventually send all metaphysical comfortism to the
devil--and metaphysics first of all! Or, to say it in the language of
that Dionysian ogre, called _Zarathustra_:

    "Lift up your hearts, my brethren, high, higher! And do
    not forget your legs! Lift up also your legs, ye good
    dancers--and better still if ye stand also on your heads!

    "This crown of the laughter, this rose-garland crown--I
    myself have put on this crown; I myself have consecrated my
    laughter. No one else have I found to-day strong enough for
    this.

    "Zarathustra the dancer, Zarathustra the light one,
    who beckoneth with his pinions, one ready for flight,
    beckoning unto all birds, ready and prepared, a blissfully
    light-spirited one:--

    "Zarathustra the soothsayer, Zarathustra the sooth-laugher,
    no impatient one, no absolute one, one who loveth leaps and
    side-leaps: I myself have put on this crown!

    "This crown of the laughter, this rose-garland crown--to
    you my brethren do I cast this crown! Laughing have I
    consecrated: ye higher men, _learn,_ I pray you--to laugh!"

    _Thus spake Zarathustra_, lxxiii. 17, 18, and 20.

SILS-MARIA, OBERENGADIN, _August_ 1886.


[1]

    And shall not I, by mightiest desire,
    In living shape that sole fair form acquire?
    SWANWICK, trans. of _Faust._




THE BIRTH OF TRAGEDY

FROM THE SPIRIT OF MUSIC




FOREWORD TO RICHARD WAGNER.


In order to keep at a distance all the possible scruples, excitements,
and misunderstandings to which the thoughts gathered in this essay
will give occasion, considering the peculiar character of our æsthetic
publicity, and to be able also Co write the introductory remarks
with the same contemplative delight, the impress of which, as the
petrifaction of good and elevating hours, it bears on every page, I
form a conception of the moment when you, my highly honoured friend,
will receive this essay; how you, say after an evening walk in the
winter snow, will behold the unbound Prometheus on the title-page,
read my name, and be forthwith convinced that, whatever this essay may
contain, the author has something earnest and impressive to say, and,
moreover, that in all his meditations he communed with you as with one
present and could thus write only what befitted your presence. You
will thus remember that it was at the same time as your magnificent
dissertation on Beethoven originated, viz., amidst the horrors and
sublimities of the war which had just then broken out, that I collected
myself for these thoughts. But those persons would err, to whom this
collection suggests no more perhaps than the antithesis of patriotic
excitement and æsthetic revelry, of gallant earnestness and sportive
delight. Upon a real perusal of this essay, such readers will, rather
to their surprise, discover how earnest is the German problem we have
to deal with, which we properly place, as a vortex and turning-point,
in the very midst of German hopes. Perhaps, however, this same class
of readers will be shocked at seeing an æsthetic problem taken so
seriously, especially if they can recognise in art no more than a merry
diversion, a readily dispensable court-jester to the "earnestness
of existence": as if no one were aware of the real meaning of this
confrontation with the "earnestness of existence." These earnest ones
may be informed that I am convinced that art is the highest task and
the properly metaphysical activity of this life, as it is understood by
the man, to whom, as my sublime protagonist on this path, I would now
dedicate this essay.

BASEL, _end of the year_ 1871.




THE BIRTH OF TRAGEDY.



1.


We shall have gained much for the science of æsthetics, when once we
have perceived not only by logical inference, but by the immediate
certainty of intuition, that the continuous development of art is bound
up with the duplexity of the _Apollonian_ and the _Dionysian:_ in
like manner as procreation is dependent on the duality of the sexes,
involving perpetual conflicts with only periodically intervening
reconciliations. These names we borrow from the Greeks, who disclose
to the intelligent observer the profound mysteries of their view of
art, not indeed in concepts, but in the impressively clear figures of
their world of deities. It is in connection with Apollo and Dionysus,
the two art-deities of the Greeks, that we learn that there existed in
the Grecian world a wide antithesis, in origin and aims, between the
art of the shaper, the Apollonian, and the non-plastic art of music,
that of Dionysus: both these so heterogeneous tendencies run parallel
to each other, for the most part openly at variance, and continually
inciting each other to new and more powerful births, to perpetuate in
them the strife of this antithesis, which is but seemingly bridged over
by their mutual term "Art"; till at last, by a metaphysical miracle
of the Hellenic will, they appear paired with each other, and through
this pairing eventually generate the equally Dionysian and Apollonian
art-work of Attic tragedy.

In order to bring these two tendencies within closer range, let us
conceive them first of all as the separate art-worlds of _dreamland_
and _drunkenness;_ between which physiological phenomena a contrast
may be observed analogous to that existing between the Apollonian and
the Dionysian. In dreams, according to the conception of Lucretius,
the glorious divine figures first appeared to the souls of men, in
dreams the great shaper beheld the charming corporeal structure of
superhuman beings, and the Hellenic poet, if consulted on the mysteries
of poetic inspiration, would likewise have suggested dreams and would
have offered an explanation resembling that of Hans Sachs in the
Meistersingers:--

    Mein Freund, das grad' ist Dichters Werk,
    dass er sein Träumen deut' und merk'.
    Glaubt mir, des Menschen wahrster Wahn
    wird ihm im Traume aufgethan:
    all' Dichtkunst und Poeterei
    ist nichts als Wahrtraum-Deuterei.[1]


The beauteous appearance of the dream-worlds, in the production of
which every man is a perfect artist, is the presupposition of all
plastic art, and in fact, as we shall see, of an important half of
poetry also. We take delight in the immediate apprehension of form; all
forms speak to us; there is nothing indifferent, nothing superfluous.
But, together with the highest life of this dream-reality we also have,
glimmering through it, the sensation of its appearance: such at least
is my experience, as to the frequency, ay, normality of which I could
adduce many proofs, as also the sayings of the poets. Indeed, the man
of philosophic turn has a foreboding that underneath this reality in
which we live and have our being, another and altogether different
reality lies concealed, and that therefore it is also an appearance;
and Schopenhauer actually designates the gift of occasionally regarding
men and things as mere phantoms and dream-pictures as the criterion of
philosophical ability. Accordingly, the man susceptible to art stands
in the same relation to the reality of dreams as the philosopher to
the reality of existence; he is a close and willing observer, for from
these pictures he reads the meaning of life, and by these processes
he trains himself for life. And it is perhaps not only the agreeable
and friendly pictures that he realises in himself with such perfect
understanding: the earnest, the troubled, the dreary, the gloomy, the
sudden checks, the tricks of fortune, the uneasy presentiments, in
short, the whole "Divine Comedy" of life, and the Inferno, also pass
before him, not merely like pictures on the wall--for he too lives and
suffers in these scenes,--and yet not without that fleeting sensation
of appearance. And perhaps many a one will, like myself, recollect
having sometimes called out cheeringly and not without success amid the
dangers and terrors of dream-life: "It is a dream! I will dream on!" I
have likewise been told of persons capable of continuing the causality
of one and the same dream for three and even more successive nights:
all of which facts clearly testify that our innermost being, the common
substratum of all of us, experiences our dreams with deep joy and
cheerful acquiescence.

This cheerful acquiescence in the dream-experience has likewise been
embodied by the Greeks in their Apollo: for Apollo, as the god of
all shaping energies, is also the soothsaying god. He, who (as the
etymology of the name indicates) is the "shining one," the deity of
light, also rules over the fair appearance of the inner world of
fantasies. The higher truth, the perfection of these states in contrast
to the only partially intelligible everyday world, ay, the deep
consciousness of nature, healing and helping in sleep and dream, is at
the same time the symbolical analogue of the faculty of soothsaying
and, in general, of the arts, through which life is made possible and
worth living. But also that delicate line, which the dream-picture must
not overstep--lest it act pathologically (in which case appearance,
being reality pure and simple, would impose upon us)--must not be
wanting in the picture of Apollo: that measured limitation, that
freedom from the wilder emotions, that philosophical calmness of the
sculptor-god. His eye must be "sunlike," according to his origin; even
when it is angry and looks displeased, the sacredness of his beauteous
appearance is still there. And so we might apply to Apollo, in an
eccentric sense, what Schopenhauer says of the man wrapt in the veil
of Mâyâ[2]: _Welt als Wille und Vorstellung,_ I. p. 416: "Just as in
a stormy sea, unbounded in every direction, rising and falling with
howling mountainous waves, a sailor sits in a boat and trusts in his
frail barque: so in the midst of a world of sorrows the individual sits
quietly supported by and trusting in his _principium individuationis_."
Indeed, we might say of Apollo, that in him the unshaken faith in
this _principium_ and the quiet sitting of the man wrapt therein have
received their sublimest expression; and we might even designate Apollo
as the glorious divine image of the _principium individuationis,_
from out of the gestures and looks of which all the joy and wisdom of
"appearance," together with its beauty, speak to us.

In the same work Schopenhauer has described to us the stupendous _awe_
which seizes upon man, when of a sudden he is at a loss to account for
the cognitive forms of a phenomenon, in that the principle of reason,
in some one of its manifestations, seems to admit of an exception.
Add to this awe the blissful ecstasy which rises from the innermost
depths of man, ay, of nature, at this same collapse of the _principium
individuationis,_ and we shall gain an insight into the being of
the _Dionysian,_ which is brought within closest ken perhaps by the
analogy of _drunkenness._ It is either under the influence of the
narcotic draught, of which the hymns of all primitive men and peoples
tell us, or by the powerful approach of spring penetrating all nature
with joy, that those Dionysian emotions awake, in the augmentation of
which the subjective vanishes to complete self-forgetfulness. So also
in the German Middle Ages singing and dancing crowds, ever increasing
in number, were borne from place to place under this same Dionysian
power. In these St. John's and St. Vitus's dancers we again perceive
the Bacchic choruses of the Greeks, with their previous history in Asia
Minor, as far back as Babylon and the orgiastic Sacæa. There are some,
who, from lack of experience or obtuseness, will turn away from such
phenomena as "folk-diseases" with a smile of contempt or pity prompted
by the consciousness of their own health: of course, the poor wretches
do not divine what a cadaverous-looking and ghastly aspect this very
"health" of theirs presents when the glowing life of the Dionysian
revellers rushes past them.

Under the charm of the Dionysian not only is the covenant between man
and man again established, but also estranged, hostile or subjugated
nature again celebrates her reconciliation with her lost son, man. Of
her own accord earth proffers her gifts, and peacefully the beasts of
prey approach from the desert and the rocks. The chariot of Dionysus is
bedecked with flowers and garlands: panthers and tigers pass beneath
his yoke. Change Beethoven's "jubilee-song" into a painting, and, if
your imagination be equal to the occasion when the awestruck millions
sink into the dust, you will then be able to approach the Dionysian.
Now is the slave a free man, now all the stubborn, hostile barriers,
which necessity, caprice, or "shameless fashion" has set up between
man and man, are broken down. Now, at the evangel of cosmic harmony,
each one feels himself not only united, reconciled, blended with
his neighbour, but as one with him, as if the veil of Mâyâ has been
torn and were now merely fluttering in tatters before the mysterious
Primordial Unity. In song and in dance man exhibits himself as a member
of a higher community, has forgotten how to walk and speak, and is on
the point of taking a dancing flight into the air. His gestures bespeak
enchantment. Even as the animals now talk, and as the earth yields milk
and honey, so also something super-natural sounds forth from him: he
feels himself a god, he himself now walks about enchanted and elated
even as the gods whom he saw walking about in his dreams. Man is no
longer an artist, he has become a work of art: the artistic power of
all nature here reveals itself in the tremors of drunkenness to the
highest gratification of the Primordial Unity. The noblest clay, the
costliest marble, namely man, is here kneaded and cut, and the chisel
strokes of the Dionysian world-artist are accompanied with the cry of
the Eleusinian mysteries: "Ihr stürzt nieder, Millionen? Ahnest du den
Schöpfer, Welt?"[3]


[1]

    My friend, just this is poet's task:
    His dreams to read and to unmask.
    Trust me, illusion's truths thrice sealed
    In dream to man will be revealed.
    All verse-craft and poetisation
    Is but soothdream interpretation.

[2] Cf. _World and Will as Idea,_ 1. 455 ff., trans, by
Haldane and Kemp.

[3]

    Ye bow in the dust, oh millions?
    Thy maker, mortal, dost divine?
Cf. Schiller's "Hymn to Joy"; and Beethoven, Ninth Symphony.--TR.





2.


Thus far we have considered the Apollonian and his antithesis,
the Dionysian, as artistic powers, which burst forth from nature
herself, _without the mediation of the human artist,_ and in which
her art-impulses are satisfied in the most immediate and direct way:
first, as the pictorial world of dreams, the perfection of which
has no connection whatever with the intellectual height or artistic
culture of the unit man, and again, as drunken reality, which likewise
does not heed the unit man, but even seeks to destroy the individual
and redeem him by a mystic feeling of Oneness. Anent these immediate
art-states of nature every artist is either an "imitator," to wit,
either an Apollonian, an artist in dreams, or a Dionysian, an artist
in ecstasies, or finally--as for instance in Greek tragedy--an artist
in both dreams and ecstasies: so we may perhaps picture him, as in
his Dionysian drunkenness and mystical self-abnegation, lonesome and
apart from the revelling choruses, he sinks down, and how now, through
Apollonian dream-inspiration, his own state, _i.e._, his oneness
with the primal source of the universe, reveals itself to him _in a
symbolical dream-picture_.

After these general premisings and contrastings, let us now approach
the _Greeks_ in order to learn in what degree and to what height
these _art-impulses of nature_ were developed in them: whereby
we shall be enabled to understand and appreciate more deeply the
relation of the Greek artist to his archetypes, or, according to the
Aristotelian expression, "the imitation of nature." In spite of all the
dream-literature and the numerous dream-anecdotes of the Greeks, we can
speak only conjecturally, though with a fair degree of certainty, of
their _dreams._ Considering the incredibly precise and unerring plastic
power of their eyes, as also their manifest and sincere delight in
colours, we can hardly refrain (to the shame of every one born later)
from assuming for their very dreams a logical causality of lines and
contours, colours and groups, a sequence of scenes resembling their
best reliefs, the perfection of which would certainly justify us, if a
comparison were possible, in designating the dreaming Greeks as Homers
and Homer as a dreaming Greek: in a deeper sense than when modern man,
in respect to his dreams, ventures to compare himself with Shakespeare.

On the other hand, we should not have to speak conjecturally, if asked
to disclose the immense gap which separated the _Dionysian Greek_ from
the Dionysian barbarian. From all quarters of the Ancient World--to
say nothing of the modern--from Rome as far as Babylon, we can prove
the existence of Dionysian festivals, the type of which bears, at
best, the same relation to the Greek festivals as the bearded satyr,
who borrowed his name and attributes from the goat, does to Dionysus
himself. In nearly every instance the centre of these festivals lay
in extravagant sexual licentiousness, the waves of which overwhelmed
all family life and its venerable traditions; the very wildest beasts
of nature were let loose here, including that detestable mixture of
lust and cruelty which has always seemed to me the genuine "witches'
draught." For some time, however, it would seem that the Greeks
were perfectly secure and guarded against the feverish agitations
of these festivals (--the knowledge of which entered Greece by all
the channels of land and sea) by the figure of Apollo himself rising
here in full pride, who could not have held out the Gorgon's head to
a more dangerous power than this grotesquely uncouth Dionysian. It
is in Doric art that this majestically-rejecting attitude of Apollo
perpetuated itself. This opposition became more precarious and even
impossible, when, from out of the deepest root of the Hellenic nature,
similar impulses finally broke forth and made way for themselves:
the Delphic god, by a seasonably effected reconciliation, was now
contented with taking the destructive arms from the hands of his
powerful antagonist. This reconciliation marks the most important
moment in the history of the Greek cult: wherever we turn our eyes
we may observe the revolutions resulting from this event. It was
the reconciliation of two antagonists, with the sharp demarcation
of the boundary-lines to be thenceforth observed by each, and with
periodical transmission of testimonials;--in reality, the chasm was
not bridged over. But if we observe how, under the pressure of this
conclusion of peace, the Dionysian power manifested itself, we shall
now recognise in the Dionysian orgies of the Greeks, as compared with
the Babylonian Sacæa and their retrogression of man to the tiger and
the ape, the significance of festivals of world-redemption and days of
transfiguration. Not till then does nature attain her artistic jubilee;
not till then does the rupture of the _principium individuationis_
become an artistic phenomenon. That horrible "witches' draught" of
sensuality and cruelty was here powerless: only the curious blending
and duality in the emotions of the Dionysian revellers reminds one of
it--just as medicines remind one of deadly poisons,--that phenomenon,
to wit, that pains beget joy, that jubilation wrings painful sounds out
of the breast. From the highest joy sounds the cry of horror or the
yearning wail over an irretrievable loss. In these Greek festivals a
sentimental trait, as it were, breaks forth from nature, as if she must
sigh over her dismemberment into individuals. The song and pantomime
of such dually-minded revellers was something new and unheard-of in
the Homeric-Grecian world; and the Dionysian _music_ in particular
excited awe and horror. If music, as it would seem, was previously
known as an Apollonian art, it was, strictly speaking, only as the
wave-beat of rhythm, the formative power of which was developed to
the representation of Apollonian conditions. The music of Apollo was
Doric architectonics in tones, but in merely suggested tones, such
as those of the cithara. The very element which forms the essence of
Dionysian music (and hence of music in general) is carefully excluded
as un-Apollonian; namely, the thrilling power of the tone, the uniform
stream of the melos, and the thoroughly incomparable world of harmony.
In the Dionysian dithyramb man is incited to the highest exaltation
of all his symbolic faculties; something never before experienced
struggles for utterance--the annihilation of the veil of Mâyâ, Oneness
as genius of the race, ay, of nature. The essence of nature is now
to be expressed symbolically; a new world of symbols is required;
for once the entire symbolism of the body, not only the symbolism of
the lips, face, and speech, but the whole pantomime of dancing which
sets all the members into rhythmical motion. Thereupon the other
symbolic powers, those of music, in rhythmics, dynamics, and harmony,
suddenly become impetuous. To comprehend this collective discharge
of all the symbolic powers, a man must have already attained that
height of self-abnegation, which wills to express itself symbolically
through these powers: the Dithyrambic votary of Dionysus is therefore
understood only by those like himself! With what astonishment must the
Apollonian Greek have beheld him! With an astonishment, which was all
the greater the more it was mingled with the shuddering suspicion that
all this was in reality not so very foreign to him, yea, that, like
unto a veil, his Apollonian consciousness only hid this Dionysian world
from his view.



3.


In order to comprehend this, we must take down the artistic structure,
of the _Apollonian culture,_ as it were, stone by stone, till we behold
the foundations on which it rests. Here we observe first of all the
glorious _Olympian_ figures of the gods, standing on the gables of this
structure, whose deeds, represented in far-shining reliefs, adorn its
friezes. Though Apollo stands among them as an individual deity, side
by side with others, and without claim to priority of rank, we must not
suffer this fact to mislead us. The same impulse which embodied itself
in Apollo has, in general, given birth to this whole Olympian world,
and in this sense we may regard Apollo as the father thereof. What was
the enormous need from which proceeded such an illustrious group of
Olympian beings?

Whosoever, with another religion in his heart, approaches these
Olympians and seeks among them for moral elevation, even for sanctity,
for incorporeal spiritualisation, for sympathetic looks of love, will
soon be obliged to turn his back on them, discouraged and disappointed.
Here nothing suggests asceticism, spirituality, or duty: here only
an exuberant, even triumphant life speaks to us, in which everything
existing is deified, whether good or bad. And so the spectator will
perhaps stand quite bewildered before this fantastic exuberance of
life, and ask himself what magic potion these madly merry men could
have used for enjoying life, so that, wherever they turned their eyes,
Helena, the ideal image of their own existence "floating in sweet
sensuality," smiled upon them. But to this spectator, already turning
backwards, we must call out: "depart not hence, but hear rather what
Greek folk-wisdom says of this same life, which with such inexplicable
cheerfulness spreads out before thee." There is an ancient story that
king Midas hunted in the forest a long time for the wise _Silenus,_
the companion of Dionysus, without capturing him. When at last he fell
into his hands, the king asked what was best of all and most desirable
for man. Fixed and immovable, the demon remained silent; till at last,
forced by the king, he broke out with shrill laughter into these words:
"Oh, wretched race of a day, children of chance and misery, why do ye
compel me to say to you what it were most expedient for you not to
hear? What is best of all is for ever beyond your reach: not to be
born, not to _be_, to be _nothing._ The second best for you, however,
is soon to die."

How is the Olympian world of deities related to this folk-wisdom? Even
as the rapturous vision of the tortured martyr to his sufferings.

Now the Olympian magic mountain opens, as it were, to our view and
shows to us its roots. The Greek knew and felt the terrors and horrors
of existence: to be able to live at all, he had to interpose the
shining dream-birth of the Olympian world between himself and them.
The excessive distrust of the titanic powers of nature, the Moira
throning inexorably over all knowledge, the vulture of the great
philanthropist Prometheus, the terrible fate of the wise Œdipus, the
family curse of the Atridæ which drove Orestes to matricide; in short,
that entire philosophy of the sylvan god, with its mythical exemplars,
which wrought the ruin of the melancholy Etruscans--was again and again
surmounted anew by the Greeks through the artistic _middle world_ of
the Olympians, or at least veiled and withdrawn from sight. To be able
to live, the Greeks had, from direst necessity, to create these gods:
which process we may perhaps picture to ourselves in this manner: that
out of the original Titan thearchy of terror the Olympian thearchy of
joy was evolved, by slow transitions, through the Apollonian impulse to
beauty, even as roses break forth from thorny bushes. How else could
this so sensitive people, so vehement in its desires, so singularly
qualified for _sufferings_ have endured existence, if it had not been
exhibited to them in their gods, surrounded with a higher glory?
The same impulse which calls art into being, as the complement and
consummation of existence, seducing to a continuation of life, caused
also the Olympian world to arise, in which the Hellenic "will" held
up before itself a transfiguring mirror. Thus do the gods justify the
life of man, in that they themselves live it--the only satisfactory
Theodicy! Existence under the bright sunshine of such gods is regarded
as that which is desirable in itself, and the real _grief_ of the
Homeric men has reference to parting from it, especially to early
parting: so that we might now say of them, with a reversion of the
Silenian wisdom, that "to die early is worst of all for them, the
second worst is--some day to die at all." If once the lamentation is
heard, it will ring out again, of the short-lived Achilles, of the
leaf-like change and vicissitude of the human race, of the decay of
the heroic age. It is not unworthy of the greatest hero to long for a
continuation of life, ay, even as a day-labourer. So vehemently does
the "will," at the Apollonian stage of development, long for this
existence, so completely at one does the Homeric man feel himself with
it, that the very lamentation becomes its song of praise.

Here we must observe that this harmony which is so eagerly contemplated
by modern man, in fact, this oneness of man with nature, to express
which Schiller introduced the technical term "naïve," is by no means
such a simple, naturally resulting and, as it were, inevitable
condition, which _must_ be found at the gate of every culture leading
to a paradise of man: this could be believed only by an age which
sought to picture to itself Rousseau's Émile also as an artist,
and imagined it had found in Homer such an artist Émile, reared at
Nature's bosom. Wherever we meet with the "naïve" in art, it behoves
us to recognise the highest effect of the Apollonian culture, which
in the first place has always to overthrow some Titanic empire and
slay monsters, and which, through powerful dazzling representations
and pleasurable illusions, must have triumphed over a terrible depth
of world-contemplation and a most keen susceptibility to suffering.
But how seldom is the naïve--that complete absorption, in the beauty
of appearance--attained! And hence how inexpressibly sublime is
_Homer,_ who, as unit being, bears the same relation to this Apollonian
folk-culture as the unit dream-artist does to the dream-faculty of
the people and of Nature in general. The Homeric "naïveté" can be
comprehended only as the complete triumph of the Apollonian illusion:
it is the same kind of illusion as Nature so frequently employs to
compass her ends. The true goal is veiled by a phantasm: we stretch out
our hands for the latter, while Nature attains the former through our
illusion. In the Greeks the "will" desired to contemplate itself in the
transfiguration of the genius and the world of art; in order to glorify
themselves, its creatures had to feel themselves worthy of glory;
they had to behold themselves again in a higher sphere, without this
consummate world of contemplation acting as an imperative or reproach.
Such is the sphere of beauty, in which, as in a mirror, they saw their
images, the Olympians. With this mirroring of beauty the Hellenic will
combated its talent--correlative to the artistic--for suffering and for
the wisdom of suffering: and, as a monument of its victory, Homer, the
naïve artist, stands before us.



4.


Concerning this naïve artist the analogy of dreams will enlighten us to
some extent. When we realise to ourselves the dreamer, as, in the midst
of the illusion of the dream-world and without disturbing it, he calls
out to himself: "it is a dream, I will dream on"; when we must thence
infer a deep inner joy in dream-contemplation; when, on the other hand,
to be at all able to dream with this inner joy in contemplation, we
must have completely forgotten the day and its terrible obtrusiveness,
we may, under the direction of the dream-reading Apollo, interpret
all these phenomena to ourselves somewhat as follows. Though it is
certain that of the two halves of life, the waking and the dreaming,
the former appeals to us as by far the more preferred, important,
excellent and worthy of being lived, indeed, as that which alone is
lived: yet, with reference to that mysterious ground of our being of
which we are the phenomenon, I should, paradoxical as it may seem, be
inclined to maintain the very opposite estimate of the value of dream
life. For the more clearly I perceive in nature those all-powerful art
impulses, and in them a fervent longing for appearance, for redemption
through appearance, the more I feel myself driven to the metaphysical
assumption that the Verily-Existent and Primordial Unity, as the
Eternally Suffering and Self-Contradictory, requires the rapturous
vision, the joyful appearance, for its continuous salvation: which
appearance we, who are completely wrapt in it and composed of it, must
regard as the Verily Non-existent,--_i.e.,_ as a perpetual unfolding
in time, space and causality,--in other words, as empiric reality.
If we therefore waive the consideration of our own "reality" for the
present, if we conceive our empiric existence, and that of the world
generally, as a representation of the Primordial Unity generated every
moment, we shall then have to regard the dream as an _appearance of
appearance,_ hence as a still higher gratification of the primordial
desire for appearance. It is for this same reason that the innermost
heart of Nature experiences that indescribable joy in the naïve artist
and in the naïve work of art, which is likewise only "an appearance of
appearance." In a symbolic painting, _Raphael_, himself one of these
immortal "naïve" ones, has represented to us this depotentiating of
appearance to appearance, the primordial process of the naïve artist
and at the same time of Apollonian culture. In his _Transfiguration,_
the lower half, with the possessed boy, the despairing bearers, the
helpless, terrified disciples, shows to us the reflection of eternal
primordial pain, the sole basis of the world: the "appearance" here
is the counter-appearance of eternal Contradiction, the father of
things. Out of this appearance then arises, like an ambrosial vapour, a
visionlike new world of appearances, of which those wrapt in the first
appearance see nothing--a radiant floating in purest bliss and painless
Contemplation beaming from wide-open eyes. Here there is presented to
our view, in the highest symbolism of art, that Apollonian world of
beauty and its substratum, the terrible wisdom of Silenus, and we
comprehend, by intuition, their necessary interdependence. Apollo,
however, again appears to us as the apotheosis of the _principium
individuationis,_ in which alone the perpetually attained end of the
Primordial Unity, its redemption through appearance, is consummated: he
shows us, with sublime attitudes, how the entire world of torment is
necessary, that thereby the individual may be impelled to realise the
redeeming vision, and then, sunk in contemplation thereof, quietly sit
in his fluctuating barque, in the midst of the sea.

This apotheosis of individuation, if it be at all conceived as
imperative and laying down precepts, knows but one law--the individual,
_i.e.,_ the observance of the boundaries of the individual,
_measure_ in the Hellenic sense. Apollo, as ethical deity, demands
due proportion of his disciples, and, that this may be observed, he
demands self-knowledge. And thus, parallel to the æsthetic necessity
for beauty, there run the demands "know thyself" and "not too much,"
while presumption and undueness are regarded as the truly hostile
demons of the non-Apollonian sphere, hence as characteristics of the
pre-Apollonian age, that of the Titans, and of the extra-Apollonian
world, that of the barbarians. Because of his Titan-like love for
man, Prometheus had to be torn to pieces by vultures; because of his
excessive wisdom, which solved the riddle of the Sphinx, Œdipus had
to plunge into a bewildering vortex of monstrous crimes: thus did the
Delphic god interpret the Grecian past.

So also the effects wrought by the _Dionysian_ appeared "titanic" and
"barbaric" to the Apollonian Greek: while at the same time he could
not conceal from himself that he too was inwardly related to these
overthrown Titans and heroes. Indeed, he had to recognise still more
than this: his entire existence, with all its beauty and moderation,
rested on a hidden substratum of suffering and of knowledge, which
was again disclosed to him by the Dionysian. And lo! Apollo could not
live without Dionysus! The "titanic" and the "barbaric" were in the
end not less necessary than the Apollonian. And now let us imagine to
ourselves how the ecstatic tone of the Dionysian festival sounded in
ever more luring and bewitching strains into this artificially confined
world built on appearance and moderation, how in these strains all
the _undueness_ of nature, in joy, sorrow, and knowledge, even to
the transpiercing shriek, became audible: let us ask ourselves what
meaning could be attached to the psalmodising artist of Apollo, with
the phantom harp-sound, as compared with this demonic folk-song! The
muses of the arts of "appearance" paled before an art which, in its
intoxication, spoke the truth, the wisdom of Silenus cried "woe! woe!"
against the cheerful Olympians. The individual, with all his boundaries
and due proportions, went under in the self-oblivion of the Dionysian
states and forgot the Apollonian precepts. The _Undueness_ revealed
itself as truth, contradiction, the bliss born of pain, declared itself
but of the heart of nature. And thus, wherever the Dionysian prevailed,
the Apollonian was routed and annihilated. But it is quite as certain
that, where the first assault was successfully withstood, the authority
and majesty of the Delphic god exhibited itself as more rigid and
menacing than ever. For I can only explain to myself the _Doric_ state
and Doric art as a permanent war-camp of the Apollonian: only by
incessant opposition to the titanic-barbaric nature of the Dionysian
was it possible for an art so defiantly-prim, so encompassed with
bulwarks, a training so warlike and rigorous, a constitution so cruel
and relentless, to last for any length of time.

Up to this point we have enlarged upon the observation made at the
beginning of this essay: how the Dionysian and the Apollonian, in ever
new births succeeding and mutually augmenting one another, controlled
the Hellenic genius: how from out the age of "bronze," with its Titan
struggles and rigorous folk-philosophy, the Homeric world develops
under the fostering sway of the Apollonian impulse to beauty, how this
"naïve" splendour is again overwhelmed by the inbursting flood of the
Dionysian, and how against this new power the Apollonian rises to the
austere majesty of Doric art and the Doric view of things. If, then,
in this way, in the strife of these two hostile principles, the older
Hellenic history falls into four great periods of art, we are now
driven to inquire after the ulterior purpose of these unfoldings and
processes, unless perchance we should regard the last-attained period,
the period of Doric art, as the end and aim of these artistic impulses:
and here the sublime and highly celebrated art-work of _Attic tragedy_
and dramatic dithyramb presents itself to our view as the common
goal of both these impulses, whose mysterious union, after many and
long precursory struggles, found its glorious consummation in such a
child,--which is at once Antigone and Cassandra.



5.


We now approach the real purpose of our investigation, which aims
at acquiring a knowledge of the Dionyso-Apollonian genius and his
art-work, or at least an anticipatory understanding of the mystery of
the aforesaid union. Here we shall ask first of all where that new
germ which subsequently developed into tragedy and dramatic dithyramb
first makes itself perceptible in the Hellenic world. The ancients
themselves supply the answer in symbolic form, when they place _Homer_
and _Archilochus_ as the forefathers and torch-bearers of Greek poetry
side by side on gems, sculptures, etc., in the sure conviction that
only these two thoroughly original compeers, from whom a stream of
fire flows over the whole of Greek posterity, should be taken into
consideration. Homer, the aged dreamer sunk in himself, the type
of the Apollonian naïve artist, beholds now with astonishment the
impassioned genius of the warlike votary of the muses, Archilochus,
violently tossed to and fro on the billows of existence: and modern
æsthetics could only add by way of interpretation, that here the
"objective" artist is confronted by the first "subjective" artist.
But this interpretation is of little service to us, because we know
the subjective artist only as the poor artist, and in every type and
elevation of art we demand specially and first of all the conquest
of the Subjective, the redemption from the "ego" and the cessation
of every individual will and desire; indeed, we find it impossible
to believe in any truly artistic production, however insignificant,
without objectivity, without pure, interestless contemplation. Hence
our æsthetics must first solve the problem as to how the "lyrist" is
possible as an artist: he who according to the experience of all ages
continually says "I" and sings off to us the entire chromatic scale of
his passions and desires. This very Archilochus appals us, alongside
of Homer, by his cries of hatred and scorn, by the drunken outbursts
of his desire. Is not just he then, who has been called the first
subjective artist, the non-artist proper? But whence then the reverence
which was shown to him--the poet--in very remarkable utterances by the
Delphic oracle itself, the focus of "objective" art?

_Schiller_ has enlightened us concerning his poetic procedure by a
psychological observation, inexplicable to himself, yet not apparently
open to any objection. He acknowledges that as the preparatory state
to the act of poetising he had not perhaps before him or within him a
series of pictures with co-ordinate causality of thoughts, but rather
a _musical mood_ ("The perception with me is at first without a clear
and definite object; this forms itself later. A certain musical mood
of mind precedes, and only after this does the poetical idea follow
with me.") Add to this the most important phenomenon of all ancient
lyric poetry, _the union,_ regarded everywhere as natural, _of the
lyrist with the musician,_ their very identity, indeed,--compared
with which our modern lyric poetry is like the statue of a god without
a head,--and we may now, on the basis of our metaphysics of æsthetics
set forth above, interpret the lyrist to ourselves as follows. As
Dionysian artist he is in the first place become altogether one with
the Primordial Unity, its pain and contradiction, and he produces the
copy of this Primordial Unity as music, granting that music has been
correctly termed a repetition and a recast of the world; but now, under
the Apollonian dream-inspiration, this music again becomes visible
to him as in a _symbolic dream-picture._ The formless and intangible
reflection of the primordial pain in music, with its redemption in
appearance, then generates a second mirroring as a concrete symbol or
example. The artist has already surrendered his subjectivity in the
Dionysian process: the picture which now shows to him his oneness with
the heart of the world, is a dream-scene, which embodies the primordial
contradiction and primordial pain, together with the primordial joy, of
appearance. The "I" of the lyrist sounds therefore from the abyss of
being: its "subjectivity," in the sense of the modern æsthetes, is a
fiction. When Archilochus, the first lyrist of the Greeks, makes known
both his mad love and his contempt to the daughters of Lycambes, it is
not his passion which dances before us in orgiastic frenzy: we see
Dionysus and the Mænads, we see the drunken reveller Archilochus sunk
down to sleep--as Euripides depicts it in the Bacchæ, the sleep on the
high Alpine pasture, in the noonday sun:--and now Apollo approaches and
touches him with the laurel. The Dionyso-musical enchantment of the
sleeper now emits, as it were, picture sparks, lyrical poems, which in
their highest development are called tragedies and dramatic dithyrambs.

The plastic artist, as also the epic poet, who is related to him, is
sunk in the pure contemplation of pictures. The Dionysian musician
is, without any picture, himself just primordial pain and the
primordial re-echoing thereof. The lyric genius is conscious of a
world of pictures and symbols--growing out of the state of mystical
self-abnegation and oneness,--which has a colouring causality and
velocity quite different from that of the world of the plastic artist
and epic poet. While the latter lives in these pictures, and only in
them, with joyful satisfaction, and never grows tired of contemplating
them with love, even in their minutest characters, while even the
picture of the angry Achilles is to him but a picture, the angry
expression of which he enjoys with the dream-joy in appearance--so
that, by this mirror of appearance, he is guarded against being unified
and blending with his figures;--the pictures of the lyrist on the other
hand are nothing but _his very_ self and, as it were, only different
projections of himself, on account of which he as the moving centre
of this world is entitled to say "I": only of course this self is
not the same as that of the waking, empirically real man, but the
only verily existent and eternal self resting at the basis of things,
by means of the images whereof the lyric genius sees through even to
this basis of things. Now let us suppose that he beholds _himself_
also among these images as non-genius, _i.e.,_ his subject, the whole
throng of subjective passions and impulses of the will directed to a
definite object which appears real to him; if now it seems as if the
lyric genius and the allied non-genius were one, and as if the former
spoke that little word "I" of his own accord, this appearance will no
longer be able to lead us astray, as it certainly led those astray who
designated the lyrist as the subjective poet. In truth, Archilochus,
the passionately inflamed, loving and hating man, is but a vision of
the genius, who by this time is no longer Archilochus, but a genius
of the world, who expresses his primordial pain symbolically in the
figure of the man Archilochus: while the subjectively willing and
desiring man, Archilochus, can never at any time be a poet. It is by no
means necessary, however, that the lyrist should see nothing but the
phenomenon of the man Archilochus before him as a reflection of eternal
being; and tragedy shows how far the visionary world of the lyrist may
depart from this phenomenon, to which, of course, it is most intimately
related.

_Schopenhauer,_ who did not shut his eyes to the difficulty presented
by the lyrist in the philosophical contemplation of art, thought he
had found a way out of it, on which, however, I cannot accompany him;
while he alone, in his profound metaphysics of music, held in his
hands the means whereby this difficulty could be definitely removed:
as I believe I have removed it here in his spirit and to his honour.
In contrast to our view, he describes the peculiar nature of song
as follows[4] (_Welt als Wille und Vorstellung,_ I. 295):--"It is
the subject of the will, _i.e.,_ his own volition, which fills the
consciousness of the singer; often as an unbound and satisfied desire
(joy), but still more often as a restricted desire (grief), always as
an emotion, a passion, or an agitated frame of mind. Besides this,
however, and along with it, by the sight of surrounding nature, the
singer becomes conscious of himself as the subject of pure will-less
knowing, the unbroken, blissful peace of which now appears, in contrast
to the stress of desire, which is always restricted and always needy.
The feeling of this contrast, this alternation, is really what the
song as a whole expresses and what principally constitutes the lyrical
state of mind. In it pure knowing comes to us as it were to deliver us
from desire and the stress thereof: we follow, but only for an instant;
for desire, the remembrance of our personal ends, tears us anew from
peaceful contemplation; yet ever again the next beautiful surrounding
in which the pure will-less knowledge presents itself to us, allures
us away from desire. Therefore, in song and in the lyrical mood,
desire (the personal interest of the ends) and the pure perception of
the surrounding which presents itself, are wonderfully mingled with
each other; connections between them are sought for and imagined; the
subjective disposition, the affection of the will, imparts its own
hue to the contemplated surrounding, and conversely, the surroundings
communicate the reflex of their colour to the will. The true song is
the expression of the whole of this mingled and divided state of mind."

Who could fail to see in this description that lyric poetry is here
characterised as an imperfectly attained art, which seldom and only
as it were in leaps arrives at its goal, indeed, as a semi-art, the
essence of which is said to consist in this, that desire and pure
contemplation, _i.e.,_ the unæsthetic and the æsthetic condition, are
wonderfully mingled with each other? We maintain rather, that this
entire antithesis, according to which, as according to some standard
of value, Schopenhauer, too, still classifies the arts, the antithesis
between the subjective and the objective, is quite out of place in
æsthetics, inasmuch as the subject _i.e.,_ the desiring individual who
furthers his own egoistic ends, can be conceived only as the adversary,
not as the origin of art. In so far as the subject is the artist,
however, he has already been released from his individual will, and has
become as it were the medium, through which the one verily existent
Subject celebrates his redemption in appearance. For this one thing
must above all be clear to us, to our humiliation _and_ exaltation,
that the entire comedy of art is not at all performed, say, for our
betterment and culture, and that we are just as little the true authors
of this art-world: rather we may assume with regard to ourselves, that
its true author uses us as pictures and artistic projections, and that
we have our highest dignity in our significance as works of art--for
only as an _æsthetic phenomenon_ is existence and the world eternally
_justified:_--while of course our consciousness of this our specific
significance hardly differs from the kind of consciousness which the
soldiers painted on canvas have of the battle represented thereon.
Hence all our knowledge of art is at bottom quite illusory, because, as
knowing persons we are not one and identical with the Being who, as the
sole author and spectator of this comedy of art, prepares a perpetual
entertainment for himself. Only in so far as the genius in the act of
artistic production coalesces with this primordial artist of the world,
does he get a glimpse of the eternal essence of art, for in this state
he is, in a marvellous manner, like the weird picture of the fairy-tale
which can at will turn its eyes and behold itself; he is now at once
subject and object, at once poet, actor, and spectator.


[4] _World as Will and Idea,_ I. 323, 4th ed. of Haldane and
Kemp's translation. Quoted with a few changes.



6.


With reference to Archilochus, it has been established by critical
research that he introduced the _folk-song_ into literature, and,
on account thereof, deserved, according to the general estimate of
the Greeks, his unique position alongside of Homer. But what is this
popular folk-song in contrast to the wholly Apollonian epos? What
else but the _perpetuum vestigium_ of a union of the Apollonian and
the Dionysian? Its enormous diffusion among all peoples, still further
enhanced by ever new births, testifies to the power of this artistic
double impulse of nature: which leaves its vestiges in the popular
song in like manner as the orgiastic movements of a people perpetuate
themselves in its music. Indeed, one might also furnish historical
proofs, that every period which is highly productive in popular songs
has been most violently stirred by Dionysian currents, which we must
always regard as the substratum and prerequisite of the popular song.

First of all, however, we regard the popular song as the musical mirror
of the world, as the Original melody, which now seeks for itself a
parallel dream-phenomenon and expresses it in poetry. _Melody is
therefore primary and universal,_ and as such may admit of several
objectivations, in several texts. Likewise, in the naïve estimation of
the people, it is regarded as by far the more important and necessary.
Melody generates the poem out of itself by an ever-recurring process.
_The strophic form of the popular song_ points to the same phenomenon,
which I always beheld with astonishment, till at last I found this
explanation. Any one who in accordance with this theory examines a
collection of popular songs, such as "Des Knaben Wunderhorn," will find
innumerable instances of the perpetually productive melody scattering
picture sparks all around: which in their variegation, their abrupt
change, their mad precipitance, manifest a power quite unknown to the
epic appearance and its steady flow. From the point of view of the
epos, this unequal and irregular pictorial world of lyric poetry must
be simply condemned: and the solemn epic rhapsodists of the Apollonian
festivals in the age of Terpander have certainly done so.

Accordingly, we observe that in the poetising of the popular song,
language is strained to its utmost _to imitate music;_ and hence a
new world of poetry begins with Archilochus, which is fundamentally
opposed to the Homeric. And in saying this we have pointed out the
only possible relation between poetry and music, between word and
tone: the word, the picture, the concept here seeks an expression
analogous to music and now experiences in itself the power of music.
In this sense we may discriminate between two main currents in the
history of the language of the Greek people, according as their
language imitated either the world of phenomena and of pictures, or the
world of music. One has only to reflect seriously on the linguistic
difference with regard to colour, syntactical structure, and vocabulary
in Homer and Pindar, in order to comprehend the significance of this
contrast; indeed, it becomes palpably clear to us that in the period
between Homer and Pindar the _orgiastic flute tones of Olympus_ must
have sounded forth, which, in an age as late as Aristotle's, when
music was infinitely more developed, transported people to drunken
enthusiasm, and which, when their influence was first felt, undoubtedly
incited all the poetic means of expression of contemporaneous man
to imitation. I here call attention to a familiar phenomenon of our
own times, against which our æsthetics raises many objections. We
again and again have occasion to observe how a symphony of Beethoven
compels the individual hearers to use figurative speech, though the
appearance presented by a collocation of the different pictorial
world generated by a piece of music may be never so fantastically
diversified and even contradictory. To practise its small wit on such
compositions, and to overlook a phenomenon which is certainly worth
explaining, is quite in keeping with this æsthetics. Indeed, even if
the tone-poet has spoken in pictures concerning a composition, when for
instance he designates a certain symphony as the "pastoral" symphony,
or a passage therein as "the scene by the brook," or another as the
"merry gathering of rustics," these are likewise only symbolical
representations born out of music--and not perhaps the imitated objects
of music--representations which can give us no information whatever
concerning the _Dionysian_ content of music, and which in fact have
no distinctive value of their own alongside of other pictorical
expressions. This process of a discharge of music in pictures we have
now to transfer to some youthful, linguistically productive people, to
get a notion as to how the strophic popular song originates, and how
the entire faculty of speech is stimulated by this new principle of
imitation of music.

If, therefore, we may regard lyric poetry as the effulguration of
music in pictures and concepts, we can now ask: "how does music
_appear_ in the mirror of symbolism and conception?" _It appears as
will,_ taking the word in the Schopenhauerian sense, _i.e.,_ as the
antithesis of the æsthetic, purely contemplative, and passive frame
of mind. Here, however, we must discriminate as sharply as possible
between the concept of essentiality and the concept of phenominality;
for music, according to its essence, cannot be will, because as such it
would have to be wholly banished from the domain of art--for the will
is the unæsthetic-in-itself;--yet it appears as will. For in order to
express the phenomenon of music in pictures, the lyrist requires all
the stirrings of passion, from the whispering of infant desire to the
roaring of madness. Under the impulse to speak of music in Apollonian
symbols, he conceives of all nature, and himself therein, only as the
eternally willing, desiring, longing existence. But in so far as he
interprets music by means of pictures, he himself rests in the quiet
calm of Apollonian contemplation, however much all around him which
he beholds through the medium of music is in a state of confused and
violent motion. Indeed, when he beholds himself through this same
medium, his own image appears to him in a state of unsatisfied feeling:
his own willing, longing, moaning and rejoicing are to him symbols by
which he interprets music. Such is the phenomenon of the lyrist: as
Apollonian genius he interprets music through the image of the will,
while he himself, completely released from the avidity of the will, is
the pure, undimmed eye of day.

Our whole disquisition insists on this, that lyric poetry is dependent
on the spirit of music just as music itself in its absolute sovereignty
does not _require_ the picture and the concept, but only _endures_
them as accompaniments. The poems of the lyrist can express nothing
which has not already been contained in the vast universality and
absoluteness of the music which compelled him to use figurative
speech. By no means is it possible for language adequately to render
the cosmic symbolism of music, for the very reason that music stands
in symbolic relation to the primordial contradiction and primordial
pain in the heart of the Primordial Unity, and therefore symbolises a
sphere which is above all appearance and before all phenomena. Rather
should we say that all phenomena, compared with it, are but symbols:
hence _language,_ as the organ and symbol of phenomena, cannot at all
disclose the innermost essence, of music; language can only be in
superficial contact with music when it attempts to imitate music; while
the profoundest significance of the latter cannot be brought one step
nearer to us by all the eloquence of lyric poetry.



7.


We shall now have to avail ourselves of all the principles of art
hitherto considered, in order to find our way through the labyrinth,
as we must designate _the origin of Greek tragedy._ I shall not be
charged with absurdity in saying that the problem of this origin has
as yet not even been seriously stated, not to say solved, however
often the fluttering tatters of ancient tradition have been sewed
together in sundry combinations and torn asunder again. This tradition
tells us in the most unequivocal terms, _that tragedy sprang from the
tragic chorus,_ and was originally only chorus and nothing but chorus:
and hence we feel it our duty to look into the heart of this tragic
chorus as being the real proto-drama, without in the least contenting
ourselves with current art-phraseology--according to which the chorus
is the ideal spectator, or represents the people in contrast to the
regal side of the scene. The latter explanatory notion, which sounds
sublime to many a politician--that the immutable moral law was embodied
by the democratic Athenians in the popular chorus, which always carries
its point over the passionate excesses and extravagances of kings--may
be ever so forcibly suggested by an observation of Aristotle: still
it has no bearing on the original formation of tragedy, inasmuch
as the entire antithesis of king and people, and, in general, the
whole politico-social sphere, is excluded from the purely religious
beginnings of tragedy; but, considering the well-known classical
form of the chorus in Æschylus and Sophocles, we should even deem
it blasphemy to speak here of the anticipation of a "constitutional
representation of the people," from which blasphemy others have not
shrunk, however. The ancient governments knew of no constitutional
representation of the people _in praxi,_ and it is to be hoped that
they did not even so much as "anticipate" it in tragedy.

Much more celebrated than this political explanation of the chorus is
the notion of A. W. Schlegel, who advises us to regard the chorus, in
a manner, as the essence and extract of the crowd of spectators,--as
the "ideal spectator." This view when compared with the historical
tradition that tragedy was originally only chorus, reveals itself
in its true character, as a crude, unscientific, yet brilliant
assertion, which, however, has acquired its brilliancy only through
its concentrated form of expression, through the truly Germanic bias
in favour of whatever is called "ideal," and through our momentary
astonishment. For we are indeed astonished the moment we compare our
well-known theatrical public with this chorus, and ask ourselves if it
could ever be possible to idealise something analogous to the Greek
chorus out of such a public. We tacitly deny this, and now wonder
as much at the boldness of Schlegel's assertion as at the totally
different nature of the Greek public. For hitherto we always believed
that the true spectator, be he who he may, had always to remain
conscious of having before him a work of art, and not an empiric
reality: whereas the tragic chorus of the Greeks is compelled to
recognise real beings in the figures of the stage. The chorus of the
Oceanides really believes that it sees before it the Titan Prometheus,
and considers itself as real as the god of the scene. And are we to
own that he is the highest and purest type of spectator, who, like the
Oceanides, regards Prometheus as real and present in body? And is it
characteristic of the ideal spectator that he should run on the stage
and free the god from his torments? We had believed in an æsthetic
public, and considered the individual spectator the better qualified
the more he was capable of viewing a work of art as art, that is,
æsthetically; but now the Schlegelian expression has intimated to us,
that the perfect ideal spectator does not at all suffer the world of
the scenes to act æsthetically on him, but corporeo-empirically. Oh,
these Greeks! we have sighed; they will upset our æsthetics! But once
accustomed to it, we have reiterated the saying of Schlegel, as often
as the subject of the chorus has been broached.

But the tradition which is so explicit here speaks against Schlegel:
the chorus as such, without the stage,--the primitive form of
tragedy,--and the chorus of ideal spectators do not harmonise. What
kind of art would that be which was extracted from the concept of the
spectator, and whereof we are to regard the "spectator as such" as the
true form? The spectator without the play is something absurd. We fear
that the birth of tragedy can be explained neither by the high esteem
for the moral intelligence of the multitude nor by the concept of the
spectator without the play; and we regard the problem as too deep to be
even so much as touched by such superficial modes of contemplation.

An infinitely more valuable insight into the signification of the
chorus had already been displayed by Schiller in the celebrated Preface
to his Bride of Messina, where he regarded the chorus as a living wall
which tragedy draws round herself to guard her from contact with the
world of reality, and to preserve her ideal domain and poetical freedom.

It is with this, his chief weapon, that Schiller combats the ordinary
conception of the natural, the illusion ordinarily required in
dramatic poetry. He contends that while indeed the day on the stage is
merely artificial, the architecture only symbolical, and the metrical
dialogue purely ideal in character, nevertheless an erroneous view
still prevails in the main: that it is not enough to tolerate merely
as a poetical license _that_ which is in reality the essence of all
poetry. The introduction of the chorus is, he says, the decisive step
by which war is declared openly and honestly against all naturalism
in art.--It is, methinks, for disparaging this mode of contemplation
that our would-be superior age has coined the disdainful catchword
"pseudo-idealism." I fear, however, that we on the other hand with our
present worship of the natural and the real have landed at the nadir
of all idealism, namely in the region of cabinets of wax-figures. An
art indeed exists also here, as in certain novels much in vogue at
present: but let no one pester us with the claim that by this art the
Schiller-Goethian "Pseudo-idealism" has been vanquished.

It is indeed an "ideal" domain, as Schiller rightly perceived,
upon--which the Greek satyric chorus, the chorus of primitive tragedy,
was wont to walk, a domain raised far above the actual path of
mortals. The Greek framed for this chorus the suspended scaffolding of
a fictitious _natural state_ and placed thereon fictitious _natural
beings._ It is on this foundation that tragedy grew up, and so it
could of course dispense from the very first with a painful portrayal
of reality. Yet it is, not an arbitrary world placed by fancy betwixt
heaven and earth; rather is it a world possessing the same reality
and trustworthiness that Olympus with its dwellers possessed for the
believing Hellene. The satyr, as being the Dionysian chorist, lives
in a religiously acknowledged reality under the sanction of the myth
and cult. That tragedy begins with him, that the Dionysian wisdom of
tragedy speaks through him, is just as surprising a phenomenon to us
as, in general, the derivation of tragedy from the chorus. Perhaps
we shall get a starting-point for our inquiry, if I put forward the
proposition that the satyr, the fictitious natural being, is to the
man of culture what Dionysian music is to civilisation. Concerning
this latter, Richard Wagner says that it is neutralised by music even
as lamplight by daylight. In like manner, I believe, the Greek man of
culture felt himself neutralised in the presence of the satyric chorus:
and this is the most immediate effect of the Dionysian tragedy, that
the state and society, and, in general, the gaps between man and man
give way to an overwhelming feeling of oneness, which leads back to
the heart of nature. The metaphysical comfort,--with which, as I have
here intimated, every true tragedy dismisses us--that, in spite of
the perpetual change of phenomena, life at bottom is indestructibly
powerful and pleasurable, this comfort appears with corporeal lucidity
as the satyric chorus, as the chorus of natural beings, who live
ineradicable as it were behind all civilisation, and who, in spite of
the ceaseless change of generations and the history of nations, remain
for ever the same.

With this chorus the deep-minded Hellene, who is so singularly
qualified for the most delicate and severe suffering, consoles
himself:--he who has glanced with piercing eye into the very heart of
the terrible destructive processes of so-called universal history, as
also into the cruelty of nature, and is in danger of longing for a
Buddhistic negation of the will. Art saves him, and through art life
saves him--for herself.

For we must know that in the rapture of the Dionysian state, with its
annihilation of the ordinary bounds and limits of existence, there is
a _lethargic_ element, wherein all personal experiences of the past
are submerged. It is by this gulf of oblivion that the everyday world
and the world of Dionysian reality are separated from each other. But
as soon as this everyday reality rises again in consciousness, it is
felt as such, and nauseates us; an ascetic will-paralysing mood is
the fruit of these states. In this sense the Dionysian man may be
said to resemble Hamlet: both have for once seen into the true nature
of things,--they have _perceived,_ but they are loath to act; for
their action cannot change the eternal nature of things; they regard
it as shameful or ridiculous that one should require of them to set
aright the time which is out of joint. Knowledge kills action, action
requires the veil of illusion--it is this lesson which Hamlet teaches,
and not the cheap wisdom of John-a-Dreams who from too much reflection,
as it were from a surplus of possibilities, does not arrive at action
at all. Not reflection, no!--true knowledge, insight into appalling
truth, preponderates over all motives inciting to action, in Hamlet as
well as in the Dionysian man. No comfort avails any longer; his longing
goes beyond a world after death, beyond the gods themselves; existence
with its glittering reflection in the gods, or in an immortal other
world is abjured. In the consciousness of the truth he has perceived,
man now sees everywhere only the awfulness or the absurdity of
existence, he now understands the symbolism in the fate of Ophelia, he
now discerns the wisdom of the sylvan god Silenus: and loathing seizes
him.

Here, in this extremest danger of the will, _art_ approaches, as a
saving and healing enchantress; she alone is able to transform these
nauseating reflections on the awfulness or absurdity of existence
into representations wherewith it is possible to live: these are the
representations of the _sublime_ as the artistic subjugation of the
awful, and the _comic_ as the artistic delivery from the nausea of
the absurd. The satyric chorus of dithyramb is the saving deed of
Greek art; the paroxysms described above spent their force in the
intermediary world of these Dionysian followers.



8.


The satyr, like the idyllic shepherd of our more recent time, is the
offspring of a longing after the Primitive and the Natural; but mark
with what firmness and fearlessness the Greek embraced the man of
the woods, and again, how coyly and mawkishly the modern man dallied
with the flattering picture of a tender, flute-playing, soft-natured
shepherd! Nature, on which as yet no knowledge has been at work,
which maintains unbroken barriers to culture--this is what the Greek
saw in his satyr, which still was not on this account supposed to
coincide with the ape. On the contrary: it was the archetype of
man, the embodiment of his highest and strongest emotions, as the
enthusiastic reveller enraptured By the proximity of his god, as the
fellow-suffering companion in whom the suffering of the god repeats
itself, as the herald of wisdom speaking from the very depths of
nature, as the emblem of the sexual omnipotence of nature, which the
Greek was wont to contemplate with reverential awe. The satyr was
something sublime and godlike: he could not but appear so, especially
to the sad and wearied eye of the Dionysian man. He would have been
offended by our spurious tricked-up shepherd, while his eye dwelt
with sublime satisfaction on the naked and unstuntedly magnificent
characters of nature: here the illusion of culture was brushed away
from the archetype of man; here the true man, the bearded satyr,
revealed himself, who shouts joyfully to his god. Before him the
cultured man shrank to a lying caricature. Schiller is right also
with reference to these beginnings of tragic art: the chorus is a
living bulwark against the onsets of reality, because it--the satyric
chorus--portrays existence more truthfully, more realistically, more
perfectly than the cultured man who ordinarily considers himself as the
only reality. The sphere of poetry does not lie outside the world, like
some fantastic impossibility of a poet's imagination: it seeks to be
the very opposite, the unvarnished expression of truth, and must for
this very reason cast aside the false finery of that supposed reality
of the cultured man. The contrast between this intrinsic truth of
nature and the falsehood of culture, which poses as the only reality,
is similar to that existing between the eternal kernel of things, the
thing in itself, and the collective world of phenomena. And even as
tragedy, with its metaphysical comfort, points to the eternal life of
this kernel of existence, notwithstanding the perpetual dissolution of
phenomena, so the symbolism of the satyric chorus already expresses
figuratively this primordial relation between the thing in itself and
phenomenon. The idyllic shepherd of the modern man is but a copy of the
sum of the illusions of culture which he calls nature; the Dionysian
Greek desires truth and nature in their most potent form;--he sees
himself metamorphosed into the satyr.

The revelling crowd of the votaries of Dionysus rejoices, swayed by
such moods and perceptions, the power of which transforms them before
their own eyes, so that they imagine they behold themselves as
reconstituted genii of nature, as satyrs. The later constitution of the
tragic chorus is the artistic imitation of this natural phenomenon,
which of course required a separation of the Dionysian spectators from
the enchanted Dionysians. However, we must never lose sight of the fact
that the public of the Attic tragedy rediscovered itself in the chorus
of the orchestra, that there was in reality no antithesis of public
and chorus: for all was but one great sublime chorus of dancing and
singing satyrs, or of such as allowed themselves to be represented by
the satyrs. The Schlegelian observation must here reveal itself to us
in a deeper sense. The chorus is the "ideal spectator"[5] in so far as
it is the only _beholder,_[6] the beholder of the visionary world of
the scene. A public of spectators, as known to us, was unknown to the
Greeks. In their theatres the terraced structure of the spectators'
space rising in concentric arcs enabled every one, in the strictest
sense, to _overlook_ the entire world of culture around him, and in
surfeited contemplation to imagine himself a chorist. According to
this view, then, we may call the chorus in its primitive stage in
proto-tragedy, a self-mirroring of the Dionysian man: a phenomenon
which may be best exemplified by the process of the actor, who, if he
be truly gifted, sees hovering before his eyes with almost tangible
perceptibility the character he is to represent. The satyric chorus
is first of all a vision of the Dionysian throng, just as the world
of the stage is, in turn, a vision of the satyric chorus: the power
of this vision is great enough to render the eye dull and insensible
to the impression of "reality," to the presence of the cultured men
occupying the tiers of seats on every side. The form of the Greek
theatre reminds one of a lonesome mountain-valley: the architecture of
the scene appears like a luminous cloud-picture which the Bacchants
swarming on the mountains behold from the heights, as the splendid
encirclement in the midst of which the image of Dionysus is revealed to
them.

Owing to our learned conception of the elementary artistic processes,
this artistic proto-phenomenon, which is here introduced to explain
the tragic chorus, is almost shocking: while nothing can be more
certain than that the poet is a poet only in that he beholds himself
surrounded by forms which live and act before him, into the innermost
being of which his glance penetrates. By reason of a strange defeat in
our capacities, we modern men are apt to represent to ourselves the
æsthetic proto-phenomenon as too complex and abstract. For the true
poet the metaphor is not a rhetorical figure, but a vicarious image
which actually hovers before him in place of a concept. The character
is not for him an aggregate composed of a studied collection of
particular traits, but an irrepressibly live person appearing before
his eyes, and differing only from the corresponding vision of the
painter by its ever continued life and action. Why is it that Homer
sketches much more vividly[7] than all the other poets? Because he
contemplates[8] much more. We talk so abstractly about poetry, because
we are all wont to be bad poets. At bottom the æsthetic phenomenon is
simple: let a man but have the faculty of perpetually seeing a lively
play and of constantly living surrounded by hosts of spirits, then he
is a poet: let him but feel the impulse to transform himself and to
talk from out the bodies and souls of others, then he is a dramatist.

The Dionysian excitement is able to impart to a whole mass of men
this artistic faculty of seeing themselves surrounded by such a host
of spirits, with whom they know themselves to be inwardly one. This
function of the tragic chorus is the _dramatic_ proto-phenomenon: to
see one's self transformed before one's self, and then to act as if
one had really entered into another body, into another character. This
function stands at the beginning of the development of the drama.
Here we have something different from the rhapsodist, who does not
blend with his pictures, but only sees them, like the painter, with
contemplative eye outside of him; here we actually have a surrender
of the individual by his entering into another nature. Moreover this
phenomenon appears in the form of an epidemic: a whole throng feels
itself metamorphosed in this wise. Hence it is that the dithyramb is
essentially different from every other variety of the choric song. The
virgins, who with laurel twigs in their hands solemnly proceed to
the temple of Apollo and sing a processional hymn, remain what they
are and retain their civic names: the dithyrambic chorus is a chorus
of transformed beings, whose civic past and social rank are totally
forgotten: they have become the timeless servants of their god that
live aloof from all the spheres of society. Every other variety of
the choric lyric of the Hellenes is but an enormous enhancement of
the Apollonian unit-singer: while in the dithyramb we have before us
a community of unconscious actors, who mutually regard themselves as
transformed among one another.

This enchantment is the prerequisite of all dramatic art. In this
enchantment the Dionysian reveller sees himself as a satyr, _and as
satyr he in turn beholds the god,_ that is, in his transformation he
sees a new vision outside him as the Apollonian consummation of his
state. With this new vision the drama is complete.

According to this view, we must understand Greek tragedy as the
Dionysian chorus, which always disburdens itself anew in an Apollonian
world of pictures. The choric parts, therefore, with which tragedy is
interlaced, are in a manner the mother-womb of the entire so-called
dialogue, that is, of the whole stage-world, of the drama proper. In
several successive outbursts does this primordial basis of tragedy beam
forth the vision of the drama, which is a dream-phenomenon throughout,
and, as such, epic in character: on the other hand, however, as
objectivation of a Dionysian state, it does not represent the
Apollonian redemption in appearance, but, conversely, the dissolution
of the individual and his unification with primordial existence.
Accordingly, the drama is the Apollonian embodiment of Dionysian
perceptions and influences, and is thereby separated from the epic as
by an immense gap.

The _chorus_ of Greek tragedy, the symbol of the mass of the people
moved by Dionysian excitement, is thus fully explained by our
conception of it as here set forth. Whereas, being accustomed to the
position of a chorus on the modern stage, especially an operatic
chorus, we could never comprehend why the tragic chorus of the Greeks
should be older, more primitive, indeed, more important than the
"action" proper,--as has been so plainly declared by the voice of
tradition; whereas, furthermore, we could not reconcile with this
traditional paramount importance and primitiveness the fact of the
chorus' being composed only of humble, ministering beings; indeed, at
first only of goatlike satyrs; whereas, finally, the orchestra before
the scene was always a riddle to us; we have learned to comprehend at
length that the scene, together with the action, was fundamentally
and originally conceived only as a _vision,_ that the only reality
is just the chorus, which of itself generates the vision and speaks
thereof with the entire symbolism of dancing, tone, and word. This
chorus beholds in the vision its lord and master Dionysus, and is thus
for ever the _serving_ chorus: it sees how he, the god, suffers and
glorifies himself, and therefore does not itself _act_. But though its
attitude towards the god is throughout the attitude of ministration,
this is nevertheless the highest expression, the Dionysian expression
of _Nature,_ and therefore, like Nature herself, the chorus utters
oracles and wise sayings when transported with enthusiasm: as
_fellow-sufferer_ it is also the _sage_ proclaiming truth from out the
heart of Nature. Thus, then, originates the fantastic figure, which
seems so shocking, of the wise and enthusiastic satyr, who is at the
same time "the dumb man" in contrast to the god: the image of Nature
and her strongest impulses, yea, the symbol of Nature, and at the same
time the herald of her art and wisdom: musician, poet, dancer, and
visionary in one person.

Agreeably to this view, and agreeably to tradition, _Dionysus,_ the
proper stage-hero and focus of vision, is not at first actually present
in the oldest period of tragedy, but is only imagined as present:
_i.e.,_ tragedy is originally only "chorus" and not "drama." Later
on the attempt is made to exhibit the god as real and to display the
visionary figure together with its glorifying encirclement before the
eyes of all; it is here that the "drama" in the narrow sense of the
term begins. To the dithyrambic chorus is now assigned the task of
exciting the minds of the hearers to such a pitch of Dionysian frenzy,
that, when the tragic hero appears on the stage, they do not behold
in him, say, the unshapely masked man, but a visionary figure, born
as it were of their own ecstasy. Let us picture Admetes thinking in
profound meditation of his lately departed wife Alcestis, and quite
consuming himself in spiritual contemplation thereof--when suddenly
the veiled figure of a woman resembling her in form and gait is led
towards him: let us picture his sudden trembling anxiety, his agitated
comparisons, his instinctive conviction--and we shall have an analogon
to the sensation with which the spectator, excited to Dionysian frenzy,
saw the god approaching on the stage, a god with whose sufferings he
had already become identified. He involuntarily transferred the entire
picture of the god, fluttering magically before his soul, to this
masked figure and resolved its reality as it were into a phantasmal
unreality. This is the Apollonian dream-state, in which the world
of day is veiled, and a new world, clearer, more intelligible, more
striking than the former, and nevertheless more shadowy, is ever born
anew in perpetual change before our eyes. We accordingly recognise in
tragedy a thorough-going stylistic contrast: the language, colour,
flexibility and dynamics of the dialogue fall apart in the Dionysian
lyrics of the chorus on the one hand, and in the Apollonian dream-world
of the scene on the other, into entirely separate spheres of
expression. The Apollonian appearances, in which Dionysus objectifies
himself, are no longer "ein ewiges Meer, ein wechselnd Weben, ein
glühend Leben,"[9] as is the music of the chorus, they are no longer
the forces merely felt, but not condensed into a picture, by which
the inspired votary of Dionysus divines the proximity of his god: the
clearness and firmness of epic form now speak to him from the scene,
Dionysus now no longer speaks through forces, but as an epic hero,
almost in the language of Homer.


[5] Zuschauer.

[6] Schauer.

[7] Anschaulicher.

[8] Anschaut.

[9] An eternal sea, A weaving, flowing, Life, all glowing.
_Faust,_ trans. of Bayard Taylor.--TR.



9.


Whatever rises to the surface in the dialogue of the Apollonian part
of Greek tragedy, appears simple, transparent, beautiful. In this
sense the dialogue is a copy of the Hellene, whose nature reveals
itself in the dance, because in the dance the greatest energy is merely
potential, but betrays itself nevertheless in flexible and vivacious
movements. The language of the Sophoclean heroes, for instance,
surprises us by its Apollonian precision and clearness, so that we at
once imagine we see into the innermost recesses of their being, and
marvel not a little that the way to these recesses is so short. But
if for the moment we disregard the character of the hero which rises
to the surface and grows visible--and which at bottom is nothing but
the light-picture cast on a dark wall, that is, appearance through and
through,--if rather we enter into the myth which projects itself in
these bright mirrorings, we shall of a sudden experience a phenomenon
which bears a reverse relation to one familiar in optics. When, after
a vigorous effort to gaze into the sun, we turn away blinded, we have
dark-coloured spots before our eyes as restoratives, so to speak;
while, on the contrary, those light-picture phenomena of the Sophoclean
hero,--in short, the Apollonian of the mask,--are the necessary
productions of a glance into the secret and terrible things of nature,
as it were shining spots to heal the eye which dire night has seared.
Only in this sense can we hope to be able to grasp the true meaning of
the serious and significant notion of "Greek cheerfulness"; while of
course we encounter the misunderstood notion of this cheerfulness, as
resulting from a state of unendangered comfort, on all the ways and
paths of the present time.

The most sorrowful figure of the Greek stage, the hapless _Œdipus,_
was understood by Sophocles as the noble man, who in spite of his
wisdom was destined to error and misery, but nevertheless through
his extraordinary sufferings ultimately exerted a magical, wholesome
influence on all around him, which continues effective even after
his death. The noble man does not sin; this is what the thoughtful
poet wishes to tell us: all laws, all natural order, yea, the moral
world itself, may be destroyed through his action, but through this
very action a higher magic circle of influences is brought into play,
which establish a new world on the ruins of the old that has been
overthrown. This is what the poet, in so far as he is at the same time
a religious thinker, wishes to tell us: as poet, he shows us first of
all a wonderfully complicated legal mystery, which the judge slowly
unravels, link by link, to his own destruction. The truly Hellenic
delight at this dialectical loosening is so great, that a touch of
surpassing cheerfulness is thereby communicated to the entire play,
which everywhere blunts the edge of the horrible presuppositions of the
procedure. In the "Œdipus at Colonus" we find the same cheerfulness,
elevated, however, to an infinite transfiguration: in contrast to
the aged king, subjected to an excess of misery, and exposed solely
as a _sufferer_ to all that befalls him, we have here a supermundane
cheerfulness, which descends from a divine sphere and intimates to
us that in his purely passive attitude the hero attains his highest
activity, the influence of which extends far beyond his life, while
his earlier conscious musing and striving led him only to passivity.
Thus, then, the legal knot of the fable of Œdipus, which to mortal
eyes appears indissolubly entangled, is slowly unravelled--and the
profoundest human joy comes upon us in the presence of this divine
counterpart of dialectics. If this explanation does justice to the
poet, it may still be asked whether the substance of the myth is
thereby exhausted; and here it turns out that the entire conception
of the poet is nothing but the light-picture which healing nature
holds up to us after a glance into the abyss. Œdipus, the murderer of
his father, the husband of his mother, Œdipus, the interpreter of the
riddle of the Sphinx! What does the mysterious triad of these deeds
of destiny tell us? There is a primitive popular belief, especially
in Persia, that a wise Magian can be born only of incest: which
we have forthwith to interpret to ourselves with reference to the
riddle-solving and mother-marrying Œdipus, to the effect that when
the boundary of the present and future, the rigid law of individuation
and, in general, the intrinsic spell of nature, are broken by prophetic
and magical powers, an extraordinary counter-naturalness--as, in this
case, incest--must have preceded as a cause; for how else could one
force nature to surrender her secrets but by victoriously opposing her,
_i.e.,_ by means of the Unnatural? It is this intuition which I see
imprinted in the awful triad of the destiny of Œdipus: the very man
who solves the riddle of nature--that double-constituted Sphinx--must
also, as the murderer of his father and husband of his mother, break
the holiest laws of nature. Indeed, it seems as if the myth sought to
whisper into our ears that wisdom, especially Dionysian wisdom, is
an unnatural abomination, and that whoever, through his knowledge,
plunges nature into an abyss of annihilation, must also experience
the dissolution of nature in himself. "The sharpness of wisdom turns
round upon the sage: wisdom is a crime against nature": such terrible
expressions does the myth call out to us: but the Hellenic poet touches
like a sunbeam the sublime and formidable Memnonian statue of the myth,
so that it suddenly begins to sound--in Sophoclean melodies.

With the glory of passivity I now contrast the glory of activity which
illuminates the _Prometheus_ of Æschylus. That which Æschylus the
thinker had to tell us here, but which as a poet he only allows us to
surmise by his symbolic picture, the youthful Goethe succeeded in
disclosing to us in the daring words of his Prometheus:--

    "Hier sitz' ich, forme Menschen
    Nach meinem Bilde,
    Ein Geschlecht, das mir gleich sei,
    Zu leiden, zu weinen,
    Zu geniessen und zu freuen sich,
    Und dein nicht zu achten,
    Wie ich!"[10]

Man, elevating himself to the rank of the Titans, acquires his culture
by his own efforts, and compels the gods to unite with him, because
in his self-sufficient wisdom he has their existence and their limits
in his hand. What is most wonderful, however, in this Promethean
form, which according to its fundamental conception is the specific
hymn of impiety, is the profound Æschylean yearning for _justice_:
the untold sorrow of the bold "single-handed being" on the one hand,
and the divine need, ay, the foreboding of a twilight of the gods, on
the other, the power of these two worlds of suffering constraining
to reconciliation, to metaphysical oneness--all this suggests most
forcibly the central and main position of the Æschylean view of
things, which sees Moira as eternal justice enthroned above gods and
men. In view of the astonishing boldness with which Æschylus places the
Olympian world on his scales of justice, it must be remembered that
the deep-minded Greek had an immovably firm substratum of metaphysical
thought in his mysteries, and that all his sceptical paroxysms could
be discharged upon the Olympians. With reference to these deities,
the Greek artist, in particular, had an obscure feeling as to mutual
dependency: and it is just in the Prometheus of Æschylus that this
feeling is symbolised. The Titanic artist found in himself the
daring belief that he could create men and at least destroy Olympian
deities: namely, by his superior wisdom, for which, to be sure, he had
to atone by eternal suffering. The splendid "can-ing" of the great
genius, bought too cheaply even at the price of eternal suffering,
the stern pride of the _artist_: this is the essence and soul of
Æschylean poetry, while Sophocles in his Œdipus preludingly strikes up
the victory-song of the _saint_. But even this interpretation which
Æschylus has given to the myth does not fathom its astounding depth of
terror; the fact is rather that the artist's delight in unfolding, the
cheerfulness of artistic creating bidding defiance to all calamity,
is but a shining stellar and nebular image reflected in a black sea
of sadness. The tale of Prometheus is an original possession of the
entire Aryan family of races, and documentary evidence of their
capacity for the profoundly tragic; indeed, it is not improbable that
this myth has the same characteristic significance for the Aryan
race that the myth of the fall of man has for the Semitic, and that
there is a relationship between the two myths like that of brother and
sister. The presupposition of the Promethean myth is the transcendent
value which a naïve humanity attach to _fire_ as the true palladium
of every ascending culture: that man, however, should dispose at will
of this fire, and should not receive it only as a gift from heaven,
as the igniting lightning or the warming solar flame, appeared to the
contemplative primordial men as crime and robbery of the divine nature.
And thus the first philosophical problem at once causes a painful,
irreconcilable antagonism between man and God, and puts as it were
a mass of rock at the gate of every culture. The best and highest
that men can acquire they obtain by a crime, and must now in their
turn take upon themselves its consequences, namely the whole flood of
sufferings and sorrows with which the offended celestials _must_ visit
the nobly aspiring race of man: a bitter reflection, which, by the
_dignity_ it confers on crime, contrasts strangely with the Semitic
myth of the fall of man, in which curiosity, beguilement, seducibility,
wantonness,--in short, a whole series of pre-eminently feminine
passions,--were regarded as the origin of evil. What distinguishes
the Aryan representation is the sublime view of _active sin_ as the
properly Promethean virtue, which suggests at the same time the ethical
basis of pessimistic tragedy as the _justification_ of human evil--of
human guilt as well as of the suffering incurred thereby. The misery in
the essence of things--which the contemplative Aryan is not disposed
to explain away--the antagonism in the heart of the world, manifests
itself to him as a medley of different worlds, for instance, a Divine
and a human world, each of which is in the right individually, but
as a separate existence alongside of another has to suffer for its
individuation. With the heroic effort made by the individual for
universality, in his attempt to pass beyond the bounds of individuation
and become the _one_ universal being, he experiences in himself the
primordial contradiction concealed in the essence of things, _i.e.,_
he trespasses and suffers. Accordingly crime[11] is understood by
the Aryans to be a man, sin[12] by the Semites a woman; as also, the
original crime is committed by man, the original sin by woman. Besides,
the witches' chorus says:

    "Wir nehmen das nicht so genau:
    Mit tausend Schritten macht's die Frau;
    Doch wie sie auch sich eilen kann
    Mit einem Sprunge macht's der Mann."[13]

He who understands this innermost core of the tale of
Prometheus--namely the necessity of crime imposed on the titanically
striving individual--will at once be conscious of the un-Apollonian
nature of this pessimistic representation: for Apollo seeks to pacify
individual beings precisely by drawing boundary lines between them,
and by again and again calling attention thereto, with his requirements
of self-knowledge and due proportion, as the holiest laws of the
universe. In order, however, to prevent the form from congealing to
Egyptian rigidity and coldness in consequence of this Apollonian
tendency, in order to prevent the extinction of the motion of the
entire lake in the effort to prescribe to the individual wave its path
and compass, the high tide of the Dionysian tendency destroyed from
time to time all the little circles in which the one-sided Apollonian
"will" sought to confine the Hellenic world. The suddenly swelling
tide of the Dionysian then takes the separate little wave-mountains of
individuals on its back, just as the brother of Prometheus, the Titan
Atlas, does with the earth. This Titanic impulse, to become as it were
the Atlas of all individuals, and to carry them on broad shoulders
higher and higher, farther and farther, is what the Promethean and the
Dionysian have in common. In this respect the Æschylean Prometheus is
a Dionysian mask, while, in the afore-mentioned profound yearning for
justice, Æschylus betrays to the intelligent observer his paternal
descent from Apollo, the god of individuation and of the boundaries
of justice. And so the double-being of the Æschylean Prometheus, his
conjoint Dionysian and Apollonian nature, might be thus expressed in
an abstract formula: "Whatever exists is alike just and unjust, and
equally justified in both."

    Das ist deine Welt! Das heisst eine Welt![14]


[10]

    "Here sit I, forming mankind
    In my image,
    A race resembling me,--
    To sorrow and to weep,
    To taste, to hold, to enjoy,
    And not have need of thee,
    As I!"

(Translation in Hæckel's _History of the Evolution of Man._)

[11] _Der_ Frevel.]

[12] _Die_ Sünde.

[13]

    We do not measure with such care:
    Woman in thousand steps is there,
    But howsoe'er she hasten may.
    Man in one leap has cleared the way.
    _Faust,_ trans. of Bayard Taylor.--TR.


[14] This is thy world, and what a world!--_Faust._



10.


It is an indisputable tradition that Greek tragedy in its earliest
form had for its theme only the sufferings of Dionysus, and that for
some time the only stage-hero therein was simply Dionysus himself.
With the same confidence, however, we can maintain that not until
Euripides did Dionysus cease to be the tragic hero, and that in fact
all the celebrated figures of the Greek stage--Prometheus, Œdipus,
etc.--are but masks of this original hero, Dionysus. The presence of a
god behind all these masks is the one essential cause of the typical
"ideality," so oft exciting wonder, of these celebrated figures. Some
one, I know not whom, has maintained that all individuals are comic as
individuals and are consequently un-tragic: from whence it might be
inferred that the Greeks in general _could_ not endure individuals on
the tragic stage. And they really seem to have had these sentiments:
as, in general, it is to be observed that the Platonic discrimination
and valuation of the "idea" in contrast to the "eidolon," the image,
is deeply rooted in the Hellenic being. Availing ourselves of Plato's
terminology, however, we should have to speak of the tragic figures of
the Hellenic stage somewhat as follows. The one truly real Dionysus
appears in a multiplicity of forms, in the mask of a fighting hero
and entangled, as it were, in the net of an individual will. As the
visibly appearing god now talks and acts, he resembles an erring,
striving, suffering individual: and that, in general, he _appears_
with such epic precision and clearness, is due to the dream-reading
Apollo, who reads to the chorus its Dionysian state through this
symbolic appearance. In reality, however, this hero is the suffering
Dionysus of the mysteries, a god experiencing in himself the sufferings
of individuation, of whom wonderful myths tell that as a boy he was
dismembered by the Titans and has been worshipped in this state
as Zagreus:[15] whereby is intimated that this dismemberment, the
properly Dionysian _suffering,_ is like a transformation into air,
water, earth, and fire, that we must therefore regard the state of
individuation as the source and primal cause of all suffering, as
something objectionable in itself. From the smile of this Dionysus
sprang the Olympian gods, from his tears sprang man. In his existence
as a dismembered god, Dionysus has the dual nature of a cruel
barbarised demon, and a mild pacific ruler. But the hope of the epopts
looked for a new birth of Dionysus, which we have now to conceive of in
anticipation as the end of individuation: it was for this coming third
Dionysus that the stormy jubilation-hymns of the epopts resounded. And
it is only this hope that sheds a ray of joy upon the features of a
world torn asunder and shattered into individuals: as is symbolised in
the myth by Demeter sunk in eternal sadness, who _rejoices_ again only
when told that she may _once more_ give birth to Dionysus In the views
of things here given we already have all the elements of a profound and
pessimistic contemplation of the world, and along with these we have
the _mystery doctrine of tragedy_: the fundamental knowledge of the
oneness of all existing things, the consideration of individuation as
the primal cause of evil, and art as the joyous hope that the spell of
individuation may be broken, as the augury of a restored oneness.

It has already been intimated that the Homeric epos is the poem
of Olympian culture, wherewith this culture has sung its own song
of triumph over the terrors of the war of the Titans. Under the
predominating influence of tragic poetry, these Homeric myths are now
reproduced anew, and show by this metempsychosis that meantime the
Olympian culture also has been vanquished by a still deeper view of
things. The haughty Titan Prometheus has announced to his Olympian
tormentor that the extremest danger will one day menace his rule,
unless he ally with him betimes. In Æschylus we perceive the terrified
Zeus, apprehensive of his end, in alliance with the Titan. Thus, the
former age of the Titans is subsequently brought from Tartarus once
more to the light of day. The philosophy of wild and naked nature
beholds with the undissembled mien of truth the myths of the Homeric
world as they dance past: they turn pale, they tremble before the
lightning glance of this goddess--till the powerful fist[16] of
the Dionysian artist forces them into the service of the new deity.
Dionysian truth takes over the entire domain of myth as symbolism of
_its_ knowledge, which it makes known partly in the public cult of
tragedy and partly in the secret celebration of the dramatic mysteries,
always, however, in the old mythical garb. What was the power, which
freed Prometheus from his vultures and transformed the myth into a
vehicle of Dionysian wisdom? It is the Heracleian power of music:
which, having reached its highest manifestness in tragedy, can invest
myths with a new and most profound significance, which we have already
had occasion to characterise as the most powerful faculty of music. For
it is the fate of every myth to insinuate itself into the narrow limits
of some alleged historical reality, and to be treated by some later
generation as a solitary fact with historical claims: and the Greeks
were already fairly on the way to restamp the whole of their mythical
juvenile dream sagaciously and arbitrarily into a historico-pragmatical
_juvenile history._ For this is the manner in which religions are
wont to die out: when of course under the stern, intelligent eyes of
an orthodox dogmatism, the mythical presuppositions of a religion are
systematised as a completed sum of historical events, and when one
begins apprehensively to defend the credibility of the myth, while at
the same time opposing all continuation of their natural vitality and
luxuriance; when, accordingly, the feeling for myth dies out, and its
place is taken by the claim of religion to historical foundations.
This dying myth was now seized by the new-born genius of Dionysian
music, in whose hands it bloomed once more, with such colours as it
had never yet displayed, with a fragrance that awakened a longing
anticipation of a metaphysical world. After this final effulgence
it collapses, its leaves wither, and soon the scoffing Lucians of
antiquity catch at the discoloured and faded flowers which the winds
carry off in every direction. Through tragedy the myth attains its
profoundest significance, its most expressive form; it rises once more
like a wounded hero, and the whole surplus of vitality, together with
the philosophical calmness of the Dying, burns in its eyes with a last
powerful gleam.

What meantest thou, oh impious Euripides, in seeking once more to
enthral this dying one? It died under thy ruthless hands: and then
thou madest use of counterfeit, masked myth, which like the ape of
Heracles could only trick itself out in the old finery. And as myth
died in thy hands, so also died the genius of music; though thou
couldst covetously plunder all the gardens of music--thou didst only
realise a counterfeit, masked music. And because thou hast forsaken
Dionysus. Apollo hath also forsaken thee; rout up all the passions from
their haunts and conjure them into thy sphere, sharpen and polish a
sophistical dialectics for the speeches of thy heroes--thy very heroes
have only counterfeit, masked passions, and speak only counterfeit,
masked music.


[15] See article by Mr. Arthur Symons in _The Academy,_ 30th
August 1902.

[16] Die mächtige Faust.--Cf. _Faust,_ Chorus of
Spirits.--TR.



11.


Greek tragedy had a fate different from that of all her older sister
arts: she died by suicide, in consequence of an irreconcilable
conflict; accordingly she died tragically, while they all passed away
very calmly and beautifully in ripe old age. For if it be in accordance
with a happy state of things to depart this life without a struggle,
leaving behind a fair posterity, the closing period of these older
arts exhibits such a happy state of things: slowly they sink out of
sight, and before their dying eyes already stand their fairer progeny,
who impatiently lift up their heads with courageous mien. The death of
Greek tragedy, on the other hand, left an immense void, deeply felt
everywhere. Even as certain Greek sailors in the time of Tiberius once
heard upon a lonesome island the thrilling cry, "great Pan is dead": so
now as it were sorrowful wailing sounded through the Hellenic world:
"Tragedy is dead! Poetry itself has perished with her! Begone, begone,
ye stunted, emaciated epigones! Begone to Hades, that ye may for once
eat your fill of the crumbs of your former masters!"

But when after all a new Art blossomed forth which revered tragedy as
her ancestress and mistress, it was observed with horror that she did
indeed bear the features of her mother, but those very features the
latter had exhibited in her long death-struggle. It was _Euripides_ who
fought this death-struggle of tragedy; the later art is known as the
_New Attic Comedy._ In it the degenerate form of tragedy lived on as a
monument of the most painful and violent death of tragedy proper.

This connection between the two serves to explain the passionate
attachment to Euripides evinced by the poets of the New Comedy, and
hence we are no longer surprised at the wish of Philemon, who would
have got himself hanged at once, with the sole design of being able
to visit Euripides in the lower regions: if only he could be assured
generally that the deceased still had his wits. But if we desire, as
briefly as possible, and without professing to say aught exhaustive on
the subject, to characterise what Euripides has in common with Menander
and Philemon, and what appealed to them so strongly as worthy of
imitation: it will suffice to say that the _spectator_ was brought upon
the stage by Euripides. He who has perceived the material of which the
Promethean tragic writers prior to Euripides formed their heroes, and
how remote from their purpose it was to bring the true mask of reality
on the stage, will also know what to make of the wholly divergent
tendency of Euripides. Through him the commonplace individual forced
his way from the spectators' benches to the stage itself; the mirror in
which formerly only great and bold traits found expression now showed
the painful exactness that conscientiously reproduces even the abortive
lines of nature. Odysseus, the typical Hellene of the Old Art, sank,
in the hands of the new poets, to the figure of the Græculus, who, as
the good-naturedly cunning domestic slave, stands henceforth in the
centre of dramatic interest. What Euripides takes credit for in the
Aristophanean "Frogs," namely, that by his household remedies he freed
tragic art from its pompous corpulency, is apparent above all in his
tragic heroes. The spectator now virtually saw and heard his double on
the Euripidean stage, and rejoiced that he could talk so well. But this
joy was not all: one even learned of Euripides how to speak: he prides
himself upon this in his contest with Æschylus: how the people have
learned from him how to observe, debate, and draw conclusions according
to the rules of art and with the cleverest sophistications. In general
it may be said that through this revolution of the popular language he
made the New Comedy possible. For it was henceforth no longer a secret,
how--and with what saws--the commonplace could represent and express
itself on the stage. Civic mediocrity, on which Euripides built all
his political hopes, was now suffered to speak, while heretofore the
demigod in tragedy and the drunken satyr, or demiman, in comedy, had
determined the character of the language. And so the Aristophanean
Euripides prides himself on having portrayed the common, familiar,
everyday life and dealings of the people, concerning which all are
qualified to pass judgment. If now the entire populace philosophises,
manages land and goods with unheard-of circumspection, and conducts
law-suits, he takes all the credit to himself, and glories in the
splendid results of the wisdom with which he inoculated the rabble.

It was to a populace prepared and enlightened in this manner that the
New Comedy could now address itself, of which Euripides had become
as it were the chorus-master; only that in this case the chorus of
spectators had to be trained. As soon as this chorus was trained to
sing in the Euripidean key, there arose that chesslike variety of the
drama, the New Comedy, with its perpetual triumphs of cunning and
artfulness. But Euripides--the chorus-master--was praised incessantly:
indeed, people would have killed themselves in order to learn yet more
from him, had they not known that tragic poets were quite as dead as
tragedy. But with it the Hellene had surrendered the belief in his
immortality; not only the belief in an ideal past, but also the belief
in an ideal future. The saying taken from the well-known epitaph, "as
an old man, frivolous and capricious," applies also to aged Hellenism.
The passing moment, wit, levity, and caprice, are its highest deities;
the fifth class, that of the slaves, now attains to power, at least in
sentiment: and if we can still speak at all of "Greek cheerfulness,"
it is the cheerfulness of the slave who has nothing of consequence to
answer for, nothing great to strive for, and cannot value anything of
the past or future higher than the present. It was this semblance of
"Greek cheerfulness" which so revolted the deep-minded and formidable
natures of the first four centuries of Christianity: this womanish
flight from earnestness and terror, this cowardly contentedness with
easy pleasure, was not only contemptible to them, but seemed to be a
specifically anti-Christian sentiment. And we must ascribe it to its
influence that the conception of Greek antiquity, which lived on for
centuries, preserved with almost enduring persistency that peculiar
hectic colour of cheerfulness--as if there had never been a Sixth
Century with its birth of tragedy, its Mysteries, its Pythagoras and
Heraclitus, indeed as if the art-works of that great period did not at
all exist, which in fact--each by itself--can in no wise be explained
as having sprung from the soil of such a decrepit and slavish love
of existence and cheerfulness, and point to an altogether different
conception of things as their source.

The assertion made a moment ago, that Euripides introduced the
spectator on the stage to qualify him the better to pass judgment on
the drama, will make it appear as if the old tragic art was always
in a false relation to the spectator: and one would be tempted to
extol the radical tendency of Euripides to bring about an adequate
relation between art-work and public as an advance on Sophocles. But,
as things are, "public" is merely a word, and not at all a homogeneous
and constant quantity. Why should the artist be under obligations to
accommodate himself to a power whose strength is merely in numbers?
And if by virtue of his endowments and aspirations he feels himself
superior to every one of these spectators, how could he feel greater
respect for the collective expression of all these subordinate
capacities than for the relatively highest-endowed individual
spectator? In truth, if ever a Greek artist treated his public
throughout a long life with presumptuousness and self-sufficiency,
it was Euripides, who, even when the masses threw themselves at his
feet, with sublime defiance made an open assault on his own tendency,
the very tendency with which he had triumphed over the masses. If this
genius had had the slightest reverence for the pandemonium of the
public, he would have broken down long before the middle of his career
beneath the weighty blows of his own failures. These considerations
here make it obvious that our formula--namely, that Euripides brought
the spectator upon the stage, in order to make him truly competent to
pass judgment--was but a provisional one, and that we must seek for a
deeper understanding of his tendency. Conversely, it is undoubtedly
well known that Æschylus and Sophocles, during all their lives, indeed,
far beyond their lives, enjoyed the full favour of the people, and that
therefore in the case of these predecessors of Euripides the idea of
a false relation between art-work and public was altogether excluded.
What was it that thus forcibly diverted this highly gifted artist, so
incessantly impelled to production, from the path over which shone the
sun of the greatest names in poetry and the cloudless heaven of popular
favour? What strange consideration for the spectator led him to defy,
the spectator? How could he, owing to too much respect for the public
--dis-respect the public?

Euripides--and this is the solution of the riddle just propounded--felt
himself, as a poet, undoubtedly superior to the masses, but not to
two of his spectators: he brought the masses upon the stage; these
two spectators he revered as the only competent judges and masters
of his art: in compliance with their directions and admonitions, he
transferred the entire world of sentiments, passions, and experiences,
hitherto present at every festival representation as the invisible
chorus on the spectators' benches, into the souls of his stage-heroes;
he yielded to their demands when he also sought for these new
characters the new word and the new tone; in their voices alone he
heard the conclusive verdict on his work, as also the cheering promise
of triumph when he found himself condemned as usual by the justice of
the public.

Of these two, spectators the one is--Euripides himself, Euripides _as
thinker,_ not as poet. It might be said of him, that his unusually
large fund of critical ability, as in the case of Lessing, if it did
not create, at least constantly fructified a productively artistic
collateral impulse. With this faculty, with all the clearness and
dexterity of his critical thought, Euripides had sat in the theatre and
striven to recognise in the masterpieces of his great predecessors, as
in faded paintings, feature and feature, line and line. And here had
happened to him what one initiated in the deeper arcana of Æschylean
tragedy must needs have expected: he observed something incommensurable
in every feature and in every line, a certain deceptive distinctness
and at the same time an enigmatic profundity, yea an infinitude, of
background. Even the clearest figure had always a comet's tail attached
to it, which seemed to suggest the uncertain and the inexplicable.
The same twilight shrouded the structure of the drama, especially the
significance of the chorus. And how doubtful seemed the solution of
the ethical problems to his mind! How questionable the treatment of
the myths! How unequal the distribution of happiness and misfortune!
Even in the language of the Old Tragedy there was much that was
objectionable to him, or at least enigmatical; he found especially
too much pomp for simple affairs, too many tropes and immense things
for the plainness of the characters. Thus he sat restlessly pondering
in the theatre, and as a spectator he acknowledged to himself that he
did not understand his great predecessors. If, however, he thought the
understanding the root proper of all enjoyment and productivity, he had
to inquire and look about to see whether any one else thought as he
did, and also acknowledged this incommensurability. But most people,
and among them the best individuals, had only a distrustful smile for
him, while none could explain why the great masters were still in the
right in face of his scruples and objections. And in this painful
condition he found _that other spectator,_ who did not comprehend,
and therefore did not esteem, tragedy. In alliance with him he could
venture, from amid his lonesomeness, to begin the prodigious struggle
against the art of Æschylus and Sophocles--not with polemic writings,
but as a dramatic poet, who opposed _his own_ conception of tragedy to
the traditional one.



12.


Before we name this other spectator, let us pause here a moment in
order to recall our own impression, as previously described, of the
discordant and incommensurable elements in the nature of Æschylean
tragedy. Let us think of our own astonishment at the _chorus_ and
the _tragic hero_ of that type of tragedy, neither of which we could
reconcile with our practices any more than with tradition--till we
rediscovered this duplexity itself as the origin and essence of Greek
tragedy, as the expression of two interwoven artistic impulses, _the
Apollonian and the Dionysian_.

To separate this primitive and all-powerful Dionysian element from
tragedy, and to build up a new and purified form of tragedy on the
basis of a non-Dionysian art, morality, and conception of things--such
is the tendency of Euripides which now reveals itself to us in a clear
light.

In a myth composed in the eve of his life, Euripides himself most
urgently propounded to his contemporaries the question as to the
value and signification of this tendency. Is the Dionysian entitled
to exist at all? Should it not be forcibly rooted out of the Hellenic
soil? Certainly, the poet tells us, if only it were possible: but the
god Dionysus is too powerful; his most intelligent adversary--like
Pentheus in the "Bacchæ"--is unwittingly enchanted by him, and
in this enchantment meets his fate. The judgment of the two old
sages, Cadmus and Tiresias, seems to be also the judgment of the
aged poet: that the reflection of the wisest individuals does not
overthrow old popular traditions, nor the perpetually propagating
worship of Dionysus, that in fact it behoves us to display at least a
diplomatically cautious concern in the presence of such strange forces:
where however it is always possible that the god may take offence
at such lukewarm participation, and finally change the diplomat--in
this case Cadmus--into a dragon. This is what a poet tells us, who
opposed Dionysus with heroic valour throughout a long life--in order
finally to wind up his career with a glorification of his adversary,
and with suicide, like one staggering from giddiness, who, in order
to escape the horrible vertigo he can no longer endure, casts himself
from a tower. This tragedy--the Bacchæ--is a protest against the
practicability of his own tendency; alas, and it has already been
put into practice! The surprising thing had happened: when the poet
recanted, his tendency had already conquered. Dionysus had already
been scared from the tragic stage, and in fact by a demonic power
which spoke through Euripides. Even Euripides was, in a certain sense,
only a mask: the deity that spoke through him was neither Dionysus nor
Apollo, but an altogether new-born demon, called _Socrates._ This is
the new antithesis: the Dionysian and the Socratic, and the art-work of
Greek tragedy was wrecked on it. What if even Euripides now seeks to
comfort us by his recantation? It is of no avail: the most magnificent
temple lies in ruins. What avails the lamentation of the destroyer,
and his confession that it was the most beautiful of all temples? And
even that Euripides has been changed into a dragon as a punishment by
the art-critics of all ages--who could be content with this wretched
compensation?

Let us now approach this _Socratic_ tendency with which Euripides
combated and vanquished Æschylean tragedy.

We must now ask ourselves, what could be the ulterior aim of the
Euripidean design, which, in the highest ideality of its execution,
would found drama exclusively on the non-Dionysian? What other form of
drama could there be, if it was not to be born of the womb of music, in
the mysterious twilight of the Dionysian? Only _the dramatised epos:_
in which Apollonian domain of art the _tragic_ effect is of course
unattainable. It does not depend on the subject-matter of the events
here represented; indeed, I venture to assert that it would have been
impossible for Goethe in his projected "Nausikaa" to have rendered
tragically effective the suicide of the idyllic being with which he
intended to complete the fifth act; so extraordinary is the power of
the epic-Apollonian representation, that it charms, before our eyes,
the most terrible things by the joy in appearance and in redemption
through appearance. The poet of the dramatised epos cannot completely
blend with his pictures any more than the epic rhapsodist. He is still
just the calm, unmoved embodiment of Contemplation whose wide eyes see
the picture _before_ them. The actor in this dramatised epos still
remains intrinsically rhapsodist: the consecration of inner dreaming
is on all his actions, so that he is never wholly an actor.

How, then, is the Euripidean play related to this ideal of the
Apollonian drama? Just as the younger rhapsodist is related to the
solemn rhapsodist of the old time. The former describes his own
character in the Platonic "Ion" as follows: "When I am saying anything
sad, my eyes fill with tears; when, however, what I am saying is awful
and terrible, then my hair stands on end through fear, and my heart
leaps." Here we no longer observe anything of the epic absorption
in appearance, or of the unemotional coolness of the true actor,
who precisely in his highest activity is wholly appearance and joy
in appearance. Euripides is the actor with leaping heart, with hair
standing on end; as Socratic thinker he designs the plan, as passionate
actor he executes it. Neither in the designing nor in the execution is
he an artist pure and simple. And so the Euripidean drama is a thing
both cool and fiery, equally capable of freezing and burning; it is
impossible for it to attain the Apollonian, effect of the epos, while,
on the other hand, it has severed itself as much as possible from
Dionysian elements, and now, in order to act at all, it requires new
stimulants, which can no longer lie within the sphere of the two unique
art-impulses, the Apollonian and the Dionysian. The stimulants are
cool, paradoxical _thoughts_, in place of Apollonian intuitions--and
fiery _passions_--in place Dionysean ecstasies; and in fact, thoughts
and passions very realistically copied, and not at all steeped in the
ether of art.

Accordingly, if we have perceived this much, that Euripides did not
succeed in establishing the drama exclusively on the Apollonian, but
that rather his non-Dionysian inclinations deviated into a naturalistic
and inartistic tendency, we shall now be able to approach nearer to
the character _æsthetic Socratism._ supreme law of which reads about
as follows: "to be beautiful everything must be intelligible," as
the parallel to the Socratic proposition, "only the knowing is one
virtuous." With this canon in his hands Euripides measured all the
separate elements of the drama, and rectified them according to his
principle: the language, the characters, the dramaturgic structure, and
the choric music. The poetic deficiency and retrogression, which we
are so often wont to impute to Euripides in comparison with Sophoclean
tragedy, is for the most part the product of this penetrating critical
process, this daring intelligibility. The Euripidian _prologue_ may
serve us as an example of the productivity of this, rationalistic
method. Nothing could be more opposed to the technique of our stage
than the prologue in the drama of Euripides. For a single person to
appear at the outset of the play telling us who he is, what precedes
the action, what has happened thus far, yea, what will happen in
the course of the play, would be designated by a modern playwright
as a wanton and unpardonable abandonment of the effect of suspense.
Everything that is about to happen is known beforehand; who then
cares to wait for it actually to happen?--considering, moreover, that
here there is not by any means the exciting relation of a predicting
dream to a reality taking place later on. Euripides speculated quite
differently. The effect of tragedy never depended on epic suspense, on
the fascinating uncertainty as to what is to happen now and afterwards:
but rather on the great rhetoro-lyric scenes in which the passion and
dialectics of the chief hero swelled to a broad and mighty stream.
Everything was arranged for pathos, not for action: and whatever
was not arranged for pathos was regarded as objectionable. But what
interferes most with the hearer's pleasurable satisfaction in such
scenes is a missing link, a gap in the texture of the previous history.
So long as the spectator has to divine the meaning of this or that
person, or the presuppositions of this or that conflict of inclinations
and intentions, his complete absorption in the doings and sufferings
of the chief persons is impossible, as is likewise breathless
fellow-feeling and fellow-fearing. The Æschyleo-Sophoclean tragedy
employed the most ingenious devices in the first scenes to place in
the hands of the spectator as if by chance all the threads requisite
for understanding the whole: a trait in which that noble artistry is
approved, which as it were masks the _inevitably_ formal, and causes
it to appear as something accidental. But nevertheless Euripides
thought he observed that during these first scenes the spectator was
in a strange state of anxiety to make out the problem of the previous
history, so that the poetic beauties and pathos of the exposition
were lost to him. Accordingly he placed the prologue even before the
exposition, and put it in the mouth of a person who could be trusted:
some deity had often as it were to guarantee the particulars of the
tragedy to the public and remove every doubt as to the reality of the
myth: as in the case of Descartes, who could only prove the reality
of the empiric world by an appeal to the truthfulness of God and His
inability to utter falsehood. Euripides makes use of the same divine
truthfulness once more at the close of his drama, in order to ensure to
the public the future of his heroes; this is the task of the notorious
_deus ex machina._ Between the preliminary and the additional epic
spectacle there is the dramatico-lyric present, the "drama" proper.

Thus Euripides as a poet echoes above all his own conscious
knowledge; and it is precisely on this account that he occupies such
a notable position in the history of Greek art. With reference to his
critico-productive activity, he must often have felt that he ought
to actualise in the drama the words at the beginning of the essay of
Anaxagoras: "In the beginning all things were mixed together; then
came the understanding and created order." And if Anaxagoras with his
"νοῡς" seemed like the first sober person among nothing but drunken
philosophers, Euripides may also have conceived his relation to
the other tragic poets under a similar figure. As long as the sole
ruler and disposer of the universe, the νοῡς, was still excluded
from artistic activity, things were all mixed together in a chaotic,
primitive mess;--it is thus Euripides was obliged to think, it is thus
he was obliged to condemn the "drunken" poets as the first "sober" one
among them. What Sophocles said of Æschylus, that he did what was
right, though unconsciously, was surely not in the mind of Euripides:
who would have admitted only thus much, that Æschylus, _because_ he
wrought unconsciously, did what was wrong. So also the divine Plato
speaks for the most part only ironically of the creative faculty of the
poet, in so far as it is not conscious insight, and places it on a par
with the gift of the soothsayer and dream-interpreter; insinuating that
the poet is incapable of composing until he has become unconscious and
reason has deserted him. Like Plato, Euripides undertook to show to the
world the reverse of the "unintelligent" poet; his æsthetic principle
that "to be beautiful everything must be known" is, as I have said,
the parallel to the Socratic "to be good everything must be known."
Accordingly we may regard Euripides as the poet of æsthetic Socratism.
Socrates, however, was that _second spectator_ who did not comprehend
and therefore did not esteem the Old Tragedy; in alliance with him
Euripides ventured to be the herald of a new artistic activity. If,
then, the Old Tragedy was here destroyed, it follows that æsthetic
Socratism was the murderous principle; but in so far as the struggle is
directed against the Dionysian element in the old art, we recognise in
Socrates the opponent of Dionysus, the new Orpheus who rebels against
Dionysus; and although destined to be torn to pieces by the Mænads of
the Athenian court, yet puts to flight the overpowerful god himself,
who, when he fled from Lycurgus, the king of Edoni, sought refuge in
the depths of the ocean--namely, in the mystical flood of a secret
cult which gradually overspread the earth.



13.


That Socrates stood in close relationship to Euripides in the tendency
of his teaching, did not escape the notice of contemporaneous
antiquity; the most eloquent expression of this felicitous insight
being the tale current in Athens, that Socrates was accustomed to help
Euripides in poetising. Both names were mentioned in one breath by the
adherents of the "good old time," whenever they came to enumerating the
popular agitators of the day: to whose influence they attributed the
fact that the old Marathonian stalwart capacity of body and soul was
more and more being sacrificed to a dubious enlightenment, involving
progressive degeneration of the physical and mental powers. It is in
this tone, half indignantly and half contemptuously, that Aristophanic
comedy is wont to speak of both of them--to the consternation of
modern men, who would indeed be willing enough to give up Euripides,
but cannot suppress their amazement that Socrates should appear in
Aristophanes as the first and head _sophist,_ as the mirror and epitome
of all sophistical tendencies; in connection with which it offers the
single consolation of putting Aristophanes himself in the pillory, as a
rakish, lying Alcibiades of poetry. Without here defending the profound
instincts of Aristophanes against such attacks, I shall now indicate,
by means of the sentiments of the time, the close connection between
Socrates and Euripides. With this purpose in view, it is especially to
be remembered that Socrates, as an opponent of tragic art, did not
ordinarily patronise tragedy, but only appeared among the spectators
when a new play of Euripides was performed. The most noted thing,
however, is the close juxtaposition of the two names in the Delphic
oracle, which designated Socrates as the wisest of men, but at the same
time decided that the second prize in the contest of wisdom was due to
Euripides.

Sophocles was designated as the third in this scale of rank; he who
could pride himself that, in comparison with Æschylus, he did what
was right, and did it, moreover, because he _knew_ what was right. It
is evidently just the degree of clearness of this _knowledge,_ which
distinguishes these three men in common as the three "knowing ones" of
their age.

The most decisive word, however, for this new and unprecedented
esteem of knowledge and insight was spoken by Socrates when he
found that he was the only one who acknowledged to himself that he
_knew nothing_ while in his critical pilgrimage through Athens, and
calling on the greatest statesmen, orators, poets, and artists, he
discovered everywhere the conceit of knowledge. He perceived, to his
astonishment, that all these celebrities were without a proper and
accurate insight, even with regard to their own callings, and practised
them only by instinct. "Only by instinct": with this phrase we touch
upon the heart and core of the Socratic tendency. Socratism condemns
therewith existing art as well as existing ethics; wherever Socratism
turns its searching eyes it beholds the lack of insight and the
power of illusion; and from this lack infers the inner perversity and
objectionableness of existing conditions. From this point onwards,
Socrates believed that he was called upon to, correct existence;
and, with an air of disregard and superiority, as the precursor
of an altogether different culture, art, and morality, he enters
single-handed into a world, of which, if we reverently touched the hem,
we should count it our greatest happiness.

Here is the extraordinary hesitancy which always seizes upon us with
regard to Socrates, and again and again invites us to ascertain the
sense and purpose of this most questionable phenomenon of antiquity.
Who is it that ventures single-handed to disown the Greek character,
which, as Homer, Pindar, and Æschylus, as Phidias, as Pericles, as
Pythia and Dionysus, as the deepest abyss and the highest height, is
sure of our wondering admiration? What demoniac power is it which would
presume to spill this magic draught in the dust? What demigod is it to
whom the chorus of spirits of the noblest of mankind must call out:
"Weh! Weh! Du hast sie zerstört, die schöne Welt, mit mächtiger Faust;
sie stürzt, sie zerfällt!"[17]

A key to the character of Socrates is presented to us by the surprising
phenomenon designated as the "daimonion" of Socrates. In special
circumstances, when his gigantic intellect began to stagger, he got
a secure support in the utterances of a divine voice which then
spake to him. This voice, whenever it comes, always _dissuades._
In this totally abnormal nature instinctive wisdom only appears in
order to hinder the progress of conscious perception here and there.
While in all productive men it is instinct which is the creatively
affirmative force, consciousness only comporting itself critically
and dissuasively; with Socrates it is instinct which becomes critic;
it is consciousness which becomes creator--a perfect monstrosity
_per defectum!_ And we do indeed observe here a monstrous _defectus_
of all mystical aptitude, so that Socrates might be designated as
the specific _non-mystic,_ in whom the logical nature is developed,
through a superfoetation, to the same excess as instinctive wisdom
is developed in the mystic. On the other hand, however, the logical
instinct which appeared in Socrates was absolutely prohibited from
turning against itself; in its unchecked flow it manifests a native
power such as we meet with, to our shocking surprise, only among the
very greatest instinctive forces. He who has experienced even a breath
of the divine naïveté and security of the Socratic course of life in
the Platonic writings, will also feel that the enormous driving-wheel
of logical Socratism is in motion, as it were, _behind_ Socrates, and
that it must be viewed through Socrates as through a shadow. And
that he himself had a boding of this relation is apparent from the
dignified earnestness with which he everywhere, and even before his
judges, insisted on his divine calling. To refute him here was really
as impossible as to approve of his instinct-disintegrating influence.
In view of this indissoluble conflict, when he had at last been brought
before the forum of the Greek state, there was only one punishment
demanded, namely exile; he might have been sped across the borders as
something thoroughly enigmatical, irrubricable and inexplicable, and so
posterity would have been quite unjustified in charging the Athenians
with a deed of ignominy. But that the sentence of death, and not mere
exile, was pronounced upon him, seems to have been brought about by
Socrates himself, with perfect knowledge of the circumstances, and
without the natural fear of death: he met his death with the calmness
with which, according to the description of Plato, he leaves the
symposium at break of day, as the last of the revellers, to begin a new
day; while the sleepy companions remain behind on the benches and the
floor, to dream of Socrates, the true eroticist. _The dying Socrates_
became the new ideal of the noble Greek youths,--an ideal they had
never yet beheld,--and above all, the typical Hellenic youth, Plato,
prostrated himself before this scene with all the fervent devotion of
his visionary soul.


[17]

    Woe! Woe!
    Thou hast it destroyed,
    The beautiful world;
    With powerful fist;
    In ruin 'tis hurled!
    _Faust,_ trans. of Bayard Taylor.--TR.



14.


Let us now imagine the one great Cyclopean eye of Socrates fixed on
tragedy, that eye in which the fine frenzy of artistic enthusiasm had
never glowed--let us think how it was denied to this eye to gaze with
pleasure into the Dionysian abysses--what could it not but see in the
"sublime and greatly lauded" tragic art, as Plato called it? Something
very absurd, with causes that seemed to be without effects, and
effects apparently without causes; the whole, moreover, so motley and
diversified that it could not but be repugnant to a thoughtful mind, a
dangerous incentive, however, to sensitive and irritable souls. We know
what was the sole kind of poetry which he comprehended: the _Æsopian
fable_: and he did this no doubt with that smiling complaisance with
which the good honest Gellert sings the praise of poetry in the fable
of the bee and the hen:--

    "Du siehst an mir, wozu sie nützt,
    Dem, der nicht viel Verstand besitzt,
    Die Wahrheit durch ein Bild zu sagen."[18]

But then it seemed to Socrates that tragic art did not even "tell the
truth": not to mention the fact that it addresses itself to him who
"hath but little wit"; consequently not to the philosopher: a twofold
reason why it should be avoided. Like Plato, he reckoned it among the
seductive arts which only represent the agreeable, not the useful, and
hence he required of his disciples abstinence and strict separation
from such unphilosophical allurements; with such success that the
youthful tragic poet Plato first of all burned his poems to be able to
become a scholar of Socrates. But where unconquerable native capacities
bore up against the Socratic maxims, their power, together with the
momentum of his mighty character, still sufficed to force poetry itself
into new and hitherto unknown channels.

An instance of this is the aforesaid Plato: he, who in the condemnation
of tragedy and of art in general certainly did not fall short of
the naïve cynicism of his master, was nevertheless constrained by
sheer artistic necessity to create a form of art which is inwardly
related even to the then existing forms of art which he repudiated.
Plato's main objection to the old art--that it is the imitation of
a phantom,[19] and hence belongs to a sphere still lower than the
empiric world--could not at all apply to the new art: and so we find
Plato endeavouring to go beyond reality and attempting to represent
the idea which underlies this pseudo-reality. But Plato, the thinker,
thereby arrived by a roundabout road just at the point where he had
always been at home as poet, and from which Sophocles and all the old
artists had solemnly protested against that objection. If tragedy
absorbed into itself all the earlier varieties of art, the same
could again be said in an unusual sense of Platonic dialogue, which,
engendered by a mixture of all the then existing forms and styles,
hovers midway between narrative, lyric and drama, between prose and
poetry, and has also thereby broken loose from the older strict law
of unity of linguistic form; a movement which was carried still
farther by the _cynic_ writers, who in the most promiscuous style,
oscillating to and fro betwixt prose and metrical forms, realised also
the literary picture of the "raving Socrates" whom they were wont to
represent in life. Platonic dialogue was as it were the boat in which
the shipwrecked ancient poetry saved herself together with all her
children: crowded into a narrow space and timidly obsequious to the
one steersman, Socrates, they now launched into a new world, which
never tired of looking at the fantastic spectacle of this procession.
In very truth, Plato has given to all posterity the prototype of a new
form of art, the prototype of the _novel_ which must be designated as
the infinitely evolved Æsopian fable, in which poetry holds the same
rank with reference to dialectic philosophy as this same philosophy
held for many centuries with reference to theology: namely, the rank of
_ancilla._ This was the new position of poetry into which Plato forced
it under the pressure of the demon-inspired Socrates.

Here _philosophic thought_ overgrows art and compels it to cling close
to the trunk of dialectics. The _Apollonian_ tendency has chrysalised
in the logical schematism; just as something analogous in the case
of Euripides (and moreover a translation of the _Dionysian_ into the
naturalistic emotion) was forced upon our attention. Socrates, the
dialectical hero in Platonic drama, reminds us of the kindred nature
of the Euripidean hero, who has to defend his actions by arguments and
counter-arguments, and thereby so often runs the risk of forfeiting
our tragic pity; for who could mistake the _optimistic_ element
in the essence of dialectics, which celebrates a jubilee in every
conclusion, and can breathe only in cool clearness and consciousness:
the optimistic element, which, having once forced its way into tragedy,
must gradually overgrow its Dionysian regions, and necessarily impel it
to self-destruction--even to the death-leap into the bourgeois drama.
Let us but realise the consequences of the Socratic maxims: "Virtue is
knowledge; man only sins from ignorance; he who is virtuous is happy":
these three fundamental forms of optimism involve the death of tragedy.
For the virtuous hero must now be a dialectician; there must now be a
necessary, visible connection between virtue and knowledge, between
belief and morality; the transcendental justice of the plot in Æschylus
is now degraded to the superficial and audacious principle of poetic
justice with its usual _deus ex machina_.

How does the _chorus,_ and, in general, the entire Dionyso-musical
substratum of tragedy, now appear in the light of this new
Socrato-optimistic stage-world? As something accidental, as a readily
dispensable reminiscence of the origin of tragedy; while we have
in fact seen that the chorus can be understood only as the cause of
tragedy, and of the tragic generally. This perplexity with respect to
the chorus first manifests itself in Sophocles--an important sign that
the Dionysian basis of tragedy already begins to disintegrate with
him. He no longer ventures to entrust to the chorus the main share
of the effect, but limits its sphere to such an extent that it now
appears almost co-ordinate with the actors, just as if it were elevated
from the orchestra into the scene: whereby of course its character
is completely destroyed, notwithstanding that Aristotle countenances
this very theory of the chorus. This alteration of the position of
the chorus, which Sophocles at any rate recommended by his practice,
and, according to tradition, even by a treatise, is the first step
towards the _annihilation_ of the chorus, the phases of which follow
one another with alarming rapidity in Euripides, Agathon, and the New
Comedy. Optimistic dialectics drives, _music_ out of tragedy with the
scourge of its syllogisms: that is, it destroys the essence of tragedy,
which can be explained only as a manifestation and illustration of
Dionysian states, as the visible symbolisation of music, as the
dream-world of Dionysian ecstasy.

If, therefore, we are to assume an anti-Dionysian tendency operating
even before Socrates, which received in him only an unprecedentedly
grand expression, we must not shrink from the question as to what
a phenomenon like that of Socrates indicates: whom in view of the
Platonic dialogues we are certainly not entitled to regard as a purely
disintegrating, negative power. And though there can be no doubt
whatever that the most immediate effect of the Socratic impulse tended
to the dissolution of Dionysian tragedy, yet a profound experience of
Socrates' own life compels us to ask whether there is _necessarily_
only an antipodal relation between Socratism and art, and whether the
birth of an "artistic Socrates" is in general something contradictory
in itself.

For that despotic logician had now and then the feeling of a gap, or
void, a sentiment of semi-reproach, as of a possibly neglected duty
with respect to art. There often came to him, as he tells his friends
in prison, one and the same dream-apparition, which kept constantly
repeating to him: "Socrates, practise music." Up to his very last days
he solaces himself with the opinion that his philosophising is the
highest form of poetry, and finds it hard to believe that a deity will
remind him of the "common, popular music." Finally, when in prison,
he consents to practise also this despised music, in order thoroughly
to unburden his conscience. And in this frame of mind he composes
a poem on Apollo and turns a few Æsopian fables into verse. It was
something similar to the demonian warning voice which urged him to
these practices; it was because of his Apollonian insight that, like a
barbaric king, he did not understand the noble image of a god and was
in danger of sinning against a deity--through ignorance. The prompting
voice of the Socratic dream-vision is the only sign of doubtfulness
as to the limits of logical nature. "Perhaps "--thus he had to ask
himself--"what is not intelligible to me is not therefore unreasonable?
Perhaps there is a realm of wisdom from which the logician is banished?
Perhaps art is even a necessary correlative of and supplement to
science?"


[18]

    In me thou seest its benefit,--
    To him who hath but little wit,
    Through parables to tell the truth.

[19] Scheinbild = ειδολον.--TR.



15.


In the sense of these last portentous questions it must now be
indicated how the influence of Socrates (extending to the present
moment, indeed, to all futurity) has spread over posterity like an
ever-increasing shadow in the evening sun, and how this influence
again and again necessitates a regeneration of _art,_--yea, of art
already with metaphysical, broadest and profoundest sense,--and its own
eternity guarantees also the eternity of art.

Before this could be perceived, before the intrinsic dependence of
every art on the Greeks, the Greeks from Homer to Socrates, was
conclusively demonstrated, it had to happen to us with regard to these
Greeks as it happened to the Athenians with regard to Socrates. Nearly
every age and stage of culture has at some time or other sought with
deep displeasure to free itself from the Greeks, because in their
presence everything self-achieved, sincerely admired and apparently
quite original, seemed all of a sudden to lose life and colour
and shrink to an abortive copy, even to caricature. And so hearty
indignation breaks forth time after time against this presumptuous
little nation, which dared to designate as "barbaric" for all time
everything not native: who are they, one asks one's self, who, though
they possessed only an ephemeral historical splendour, ridiculously
restricted institutions, a dubious excellence in their customs, and
were even branded with ugly vices, yet lay claim to the dignity and
singular position among the peoples to which genius is entitled among
the masses. What a pity one has not been so fortunate as to find the
cup of hemlock with which such an affair could be disposed of without
ado: for all the poison which envy, calumny, and rankling resentment
engendered within themselves have not sufficed to destroy that
self-sufficient grandeur! And so one feels ashamed and afraid in the
presence of the Greeks: unless one prize truth above all things, and
dare also to acknowledge to one's self this truth, that the Greeks,
as charioteers, hold in their hands the reins of our own and of
every culture, but that almost always chariot and horses are of too
poor material and incommensurate with the glory of their guides, who
then will deem it sport to run such a team into an abyss: which they
themselves clear with the leap of Achilles.

In order to assign also to Socrates the dignity of such a leading
position, it will suffice to recognise in him the type of an unheard-of
form of existence, the type of the _theoretical man,_ with regard
to whose meaning and purpose it will be our next task to attain
an insight. Like the artist, the theorist also finds an infinite
satisfaction in what _is_ and, like the former, he is shielded by this
satisfaction from the practical ethics of pessimism with its lynx eyes
which shine only in the dark. For if the artist in every unveiling
of truth always cleaves with raptured eyes only to that which still
remains veiled after the unveiling, the theoretical man, on the other
hand, enjoys and contents himself with the cast-off veil, and finds
the consummation of his pleasure in the process of a continuously
successful unveiling through his own unaided efforts. There would
have been no science if it had only been concerned about that _one_
naked goddess and nothing else. For then its disciples would have been
obliged to feel like those who purposed to dig a hole straight through
the earth: each one of whom perceives that with the utmost lifelong
exertion he is able to excavate only a very little of the enormous
depth, which is again filled up before his eyes by the labours of his
successor, so that a third man seems to do well when on his own account
he selects a new spot for his attempts at tunnelling. If now some one
proves conclusively that the antipodal goal cannot be attained in this
direct way, who will still care to toil on in the old depths, unless he
has learned to content himself in the meantime with finding precious
stones or discovering natural laws? For that reason Lessing, the most
honest theoretical man, ventured to say that he cared more for the
search after truth than for truth itself: in saying which he revealed
the fundamental secret of science, to the astonishment, and indeed,
to the vexation of scientific men. Well, to be sure, there stands
alongside of this detached perception, as an excess of honesty, if not
of presumption, a profound _illusion_ which first came to the world
in the person of Socrates, the imperturbable belief that, by means
of the clue of causality, thinking reaches to the deepest abysses of
being, and that thinking is able not only to perceive being but even
to _correct_ it. This sublime metaphysical illusion is added as an
instinct to science and again and again leads the latter to its limits,
where it must change into _art; which is really the end, to be attained
by this mechanism_.

If we now look at Socrates in the light of this thought, he appears to
us as the first who could not only live, but--what is far more--also
die under the guidance of this instinct of science: and hence the
picture of the _dying, Socrates_, as the man delivered from the fear of
death by knowledge and argument, is the escutcheon, above the entrance
to science which reminds every one of its mission, namely, to make
existence appear to be comprehensible, and therefore to be justified:
for which purpose, if arguments do not suffice, _myth_ also must be
used, which I just now designated even as the necessary consequence,
yea, as the end of science.

He who once makes intelligible to himself how, after the death of
Socrates, the mystagogue of science, one philosophical school succeeds
another, like wave upon wave,--how an entirely unfore-shadowed
universal development of the thirst for knowledge in the widest
compass of the cultured world (and as the specific task for every
one highly gifted) led science on to the high sea from which since
then it has never again been able to be completely ousted; how
through the universality of this movement a common net of thought
was first stretched over the entire globe, with prospects, moreover,
of conformity to law in an entire solar system;--he who realises all
this, together with the amazingly high pyramid of our present-day
knowledge, cannot fail to see in Socrates the turning-point and vortex
of so-called universal history. For if one were to imagine the whole
incalculable sum of energy which has been used up by that universal
tendency,--employed, _not_ in the service of knowledge, but for the
practical, _i.e.,_ egoistical ends of individuals and peoples,--then
probably the instinctive love of life would be so much weakened in
universal wars of destruction and incessant migrations of peoples,
that, owing to the practice of suicide, the individual would perhaps
feel the last remnant of a sense of duty, when, like the native of
the Fiji Islands, as son he strangles his parents and, as friend, his
friend: a practical pessimism which might even give rise to a horrible
ethics of general slaughter out of pity--which, for the rest, exists
and has existed wherever art in one form or another, especially as
science and religion, has not appeared as a remedy and preventive of
that pestilential breath.

In view of this practical pessimism, Socrates is the archetype of
the theoretical optimist, who in the above-indicated belief in the
fathomableness of the nature of things, attributes to knowledge and
perception the power of a universal medicine, and sees in error and
evil. To penetrate into the depths of the nature of things, and to
separate true perception from error and illusion, appeared to the
Socratic man the noblest and even the only truly human calling: just as
from the time of Socrates onwards the mechanism of concepts, judgments,
and inferences was prized above all other capacities as the highest
activity and the most admirable gift of nature. Even the sublimest
moral acts, the stirrings of pity, of self-sacrifice, of heroism,
and that tranquillity of soul, so difficult of attainment, which the
Apollonian Greek called Sophrosyne, were derived by Socrates, and his
like-minded successors up to the present day, from the dialectics of
knowledge, and were accordingly designated as teachable. He who has
experienced in himself the joy of a Socratic perception, and felt how
it seeks to embrace, in constantly widening circles, the entire world
of phenomena, will thenceforth find no stimulus which could urge him
to existence more forcible than the desire to complete that conquest
and to knit the net impenetrably close. To a person thus minded the
Platonic Socrates then appears as the teacher of an entirely new form
of "Greek cheerfulness" and felicity of existence, which seeks to
discharge itself in actions, and will find its discharge for the most
part in maieutic and pedagogic influences on noble youths, with a view
to the ultimate production of genius.

But now science, spurred on by its powerful illusion, hastens
irresistibly to its limits, on which its optimism, hidden in the
essence of logic, is wrecked. For the periphery of the circle of
science has an infinite number of points, and while there is still no
telling how this circle can ever be completely measured, yet the noble
and gifted man, even before the middle of his career, inevitably comes
into contact with those extreme points of the periphery where he stares
at the inexplicable. When he here sees to his dismay how logic coils
round itself at these limits and finally bites its own tail--then the
new form of perception discloses itself, namely _tragic perception,_
which, in order even to be endured, requires art as a safeguard and
remedy.

If, with eyes strengthened and refreshed at the sight of the Greeks, we
look upon the highest spheres of the world that surrounds us, we behold
the avidity of the insatiate optimistic knowledge, of which Socrates is
the typical representative, transformed into tragic resignation and the
need of art: while, to be sure, this same avidity, in its lower stages,
has to exhibit itself as antagonistic to art, and must especially have
an inward detestation of Dionyso-tragic art, as was exemplified in the
opposition of Socratism to Æschylean tragedy.

Here then with agitated spirit we knock at the gates of the present and
the future: will that "transforming" lead to ever new configurations
of genius, and especially of the _music-practising Socrates_? Will the
net of art which is spread over existence, whether under the name of
religion or of science, be knit always more closely and delicately,
or is it destined to be torn to shreds under the restlessly barbaric
activity and whirl which is called "the present day"?--Anxious, yet
not disconsolate, we stand aloof for a little while, as the spectators
who are permitted to be witnesses of these tremendous struggles and
transitions. Alas! It is the charm of these struggles that he who
beholds them must also fight them!



16.


By this elaborate historical example we have endeavoured to make it
clear that tragedy perishes as surely by evanescence of the spirit of
music as it can be born only out of this spirit. In order to qualify
the singularity of this assertion, and, on the other hand, to disclose
the source of this insight of ours, we must now confront with clear
vision the analogous phenomena of the present time; we must enter
into the midst of these struggles, which, as I said just now, are
being carried on in the highest spheres of our present world between
the insatiate optimistic perception and the tragic need of art. In
so doing I shall leave out of consideration all other antagonistic
tendencies which at all times oppose art, especially tragedy, and which
at present again extend their sway triumphantly, to such an extent that
of the theatrical arts only the farce and the ballet, for example, put
forth their blossoms, which perhaps not every one cares to smell, in
tolerably rich luxuriance. I will speak only of the _Most Illustrious
Opposition_ to the tragic conception of things--and by this I mean
essentially optimistic science, with its ancestor Socrates at the head
of it. Presently also the forces will be designated which seem to me
to guarantee _a re-birth of tragedy_--and who knows what other blessed
hopes for the German genius!

Before we plunge into the midst of these struggles, let us array
ourselves in the armour of our hitherto acquired knowledge. In
contrast to all those who are intent on deriving the arts from one
exclusive principle, as the necessary vital source of every work of
art, I keep my eyes fixed on the two artistic deities of the Greeks,
Apollo and Dionysus, and recognise in them the living and conspicuous
representatives of _two_ worlds of art which differ in their intrinsic
essence and in their highest aims. Apollo stands before me as the
transfiguring genius of the _principium individuationis_ through
which alone the redemption in appearance is to be truly attained,
while by the mystical cheer of Dionysus the spell of individuation
is broken, and the way lies open to the Mothers of Being,[20] to the
innermost heart of things. This extraordinary antithesis, which opens
up yawningly between plastic art as the Apollonian and music as the
Dionysian art, has become manifest to only one of the great thinkers,
to such an extent that, even without this key to the symbolism of the
Hellenic divinities, he allowed to music a different character and
origin in advance of all the other arts, because, unlike them, it is
not a copy of the phenomenon, but a direct copy of the will itself, and
therefore represents _the metaphysical of everything physical in the
world_, the thing-in-itself of every phenomenon. (Schopenhauer, _Welt
als Wille und Vorstellung,_ I. 310.) To this most important perception
of æsthetics (with which, taken in a serious sense, æsthetics properly
commences), Richard Wagner, by way of confirmation of its eternal
truth, affixed his seal, when he asserted in his _Beethoven_ that
music must be judged according to æsthetic principles quite different
from those which apply to the plastic arts, and not, in general,
according to the category of beauty: although an erroneous æsthetics,
inspired by a misled and degenerate art, has by virtue of the concept
of beauty prevailing in the plastic domain accustomed itself to demand
of music an effect analogous to that of the works of plastic art,
namely the suscitating _delight in beautiful forms._ Upon perceiving
this extraordinary antithesis, I felt a strong inducement to approach
the essence of Greek tragedy, and, by means of it, the profoundest
revelation of Hellenic genius: for I at last thought myself to be in
possession of a charm to enable me--far beyond the phraseology of our
usual æsthetics--to represent vividly to my mind the primitive problem
of tragedy: whereby such an astounding insight into the Hellenic
character was afforded me that it necessarily seemed as if our proudly
comporting classico-Hellenic science had thus far contrived to subsist
almost exclusively on phantasmagoria and externalities.

Perhaps we may lead up to this primitive problem with the question:
what æsthetic effect results when the intrinsically separate
art-powers, the Apollonian and the Dionysian, enter into concurrent
actions? Or, in briefer form: how is music related to image and
concept?--Schopenhauer, whom Richard Wagner, with especial reference to
this point, accredits with an unsurpassable clearness and perspicuity
of exposition, expresses himself most copiously on the subject in
the following passage which I shall cite here at full length[21]
(_Welt als Wille und Vorstellung,_ I. p. 309): "According to all
this, we may regard the phenomenal world, or nature, and music as
two different expressions of the same thing,[20] which is therefore
itself the only medium of the analogy between these two expressions,
so that a knowledge of this medium is required in order to understand
that analogy. Music, therefore, if regarded as an expression of the
world, is in the highest degree a universal language, which is related
indeed to the universality of concepts, much as these are related to
the particular things. Its universality, however, is by no means the
empty universality of abstraction, but of quite a different kind, and
is united with thorough and distinct definiteness. In this respect it
resembles geometrical figures and numbers, which are the universal
forms of all possible objects of experience and applicable to them all
_a priori_, and yet are not abstract but perceptiple and thoroughly
determinate. All possible efforts, excitements and manifestations of
will, all that goes on in the heart of man and that reason includes in
the wide, negative concept of feeling, may be expressed by the infinite
number of possible melodies, but always in the universality of mere
form, without the material, always according to the thing-in-itself,
not the phenomenon,--of which they reproduce the very soul and essence
as it were, without the body. This deep relation which music bears to
the true nature of all things also explains the fact that suitable
music played to any scene, action, event, or surrounding seems to
disclose to us its most secret meaning, and appears as the most
accurate and distinct commentary upon it; as also the fact that whoever
gives himself up entirely to the impression of a symphony seems to see
all the possible events of life and the world take place in himself:
nevertheless upon reflection he can find no likeness between the music
and the things that passed before his mind. For, as we have said, music
is distinguished from all the other arts by the fact that it is not a
copy of the phenomenon, or, more accurately, the adequate objectivity
of the will, but the direct copy of the will itself, and therefore
represents the metaphysical of everything physical in the world, and
the thing-in-itself of every phenomenon. We might, therefore, just as
well call the world embodied music as embodied will: and this is the
reason why music makes every picture, and indeed every scene of real
life and of the world, at once appear with higher significance; all the
more so, to be sure, in proportion as its melody is analogous to the
inner spirit of the given phenomenon. It rests upon this that we are
able to set a poem to music as a song, or a perceptible representation
as a pantomime, or both as an opera. Such particular pictures of human
life, set to the universal language of music, are never bound to it
or correspond to it with stringent necessity, but stand to it only
in the relation of an example chosen at will to a general concept.
In the determinateness of the real they represent that which music
expresses in the universality of mere form. For melodies are to a
certain extent, like general concepts, an abstraction from the actual.
This actual world, then, the world of particular things, affords the
object of perception, the special and the individual, the particular
case, both to the universality of concepts and to the universality of
the melodies. But these two universalities are in a certain respect
opposed to each other; for the concepts contain only the forms, which
are first of all abstracted from perception,--the separated outward
shell of things, as it were,--and hence they are, in the strictest
sense of the term, _abstracta_; music, on the other hand, gives the
inmost kernel which precedes all forms, or the heart of things. This
relation may be very well expressed in the language of the schoolmen,
by saying: the concepts are the _universalia post rem,_ but music gives
the _universalia ante rem,_ and the real world the _universalia in
re._--But that in general a relation is possible between a composition
and a perceptible representation rests, as we have said, upon the
fact that both are simply different expressions of the same inner
being of the world. When now, in the particular case, such a relation
is actually given, that is to say, when the composer has been able to
express in the universal language of music the emotions of will which
constitute the heart of an event, then the melody of the song, the
music of the opera, is expressive. But the analogy discovered by the
composer between the two must have proceeded from the direct knowledge
of the nature of the world unknown to his reason, and must not be an
imitation produced with conscious intention by means of conceptions;
otherwise the music does not express the inner nature of the will
itself, but merely gives an inadequate imitation of its phenomenon: all
specially imitative music does this."

We have therefore, according to the doctrine of Schopenhauer, an
immediate understanding of music as the language of the will, and
feel our imagination stimulated to give form to this invisible and
yet so actively stirred spirit-world which speaks to us, and prompted
to embody it in an analogous example. On the other hand, image and
concept, under the influence of a truly conformable music, acquire a
higher significance. Dionysian art therefore is wont to exercise--two
kinds of influences, on the Apollonian art-faculty: music firstly
incites to the _symbolic intuition_ of Dionysian universality, and,
secondly, it causes the symbolic image to stand forth _in its fullest
significance._ From these facts, intelligible in themselves and not
inaccessible to profounder observation, I infer the capacity of music
to give birth to _myth,_ that is to say, the most significant exemplar,
and precisely _tragic_ myth: the myth which speaks of Dionysian
knowledge in symbols. In the phenomenon of the lyrist, I have set forth
that in him music strives to express itself with regard to its nature
in Apollonian images. If now we reflect that music in its highest
potency must seek to attain also to its highest symbolisation, we must
deem it possible that it also knows how to find the symbolic expression
of its inherent Dionysian wisdom; and where shall we have to seek for
this expression if not in tragedy and, in general, in the conception of
the _tragic_?

From the nature of art, as it is ordinarily conceived according to
the single category of appearance and beauty, the tragic cannot be
honestly deduced at all; it is only through the spirit of music that
we understand the joy in the annihilation of the individual. For in
the particular examples of such annihilation only is the eternal
phenomenon of Dionysian art made clear to us, which gives expression
to the will in its omnipotence, as it were, behind the _principium
individuationis,_ the eternal life beyond all phenomena, and in
spite of all annihilation. The metaphysical delight in the tragic
is a translation of the instinctively unconscious Dionysian wisdom
into the language of the scene: the hero, the highest manifestation
of the will, is disavowed for our pleasure, because he is only
phenomenon, and because the eternal life of the will is not affected
by his annihilation. "We believe in eternal life," tragedy exclaims;
while music is the proximate idea of this life. Plastic art has an
altogether different object: here Apollo vanquishes the suffering of
the individual by the radiant glorification of the _eternity of the
phenomenon_; here beauty triumphs over the suffering inherent in life;
pain is in a manner surreptitiously obliterated from the features of
nature. In Dionysian art and its tragic symbolism the same nature
speaks to us with its true undissembled voice: "Be as I am! Amidst the
ceaseless change of phenomena the eternally creative primordial mother,
eternally impelling to existence, self-satisfying eternally with this
change of phenomena!"


[20] Cf. _World and Will as Idea,_ I. p. 339, trans. by
Haldane and Kemp.

[21] That is "the will" as understood by Schopenhauer.--TR.



17.


Dionysian art, too, seeks to convince us of the eternal joy of
existence: only we are to seek this joy not in phenomena, but behind
phenomena. We are to perceive how all that comes into being must be
ready for a sorrowful end; we are compelled to look into the terrors of
individual existence--yet we are not to become torpid: a metaphysical
comfort tears us momentarily from the bustle of the transforming
figures. We are really for brief moments Primordial Being itself,
and feel its indomitable desire for being and joy in existence; the
struggle, the pain, the destruction of phenomena, now appear to us as
something necessary, considering the surplus of innumerable forms of
existence which throng and push one another into life, considering
the exuberant fertility of the universal will. We are pierced by the
maddening sting of these pains at the very moment when we have become,
as it were, one with the immeasurable primordial joy in existence,
and when we anticipate, in Dionysian ecstasy, the indestructibility
and eternity of this joy. In spite of fear and pity, we are the happy
living beings, not as individuals, but as the _one_ living being, with
whose procreative joy we are blended.

The history of the rise of Greek tragedy now tells us with luminous
precision that the tragic art of the Greeks was really born of the
spirit of music: with which conception we believe we have done justice
for the first time to the original and most astonishing significance of
the chorus. At the same time, however, we must admit that the import of
tragic myth as set forth above never became transparent with sufficient
lucidity to the Greek poets, let alone the Greek philosophers; their
heroes speak, as it were, more superficially than they act; the myth
does not at all find its adequate objectification in the spoken word.
The structure of the scenes and the conspicuous images reveal a deeper
wisdom than the poet himself can put into words and concepts: the same
being also observed in Shakespeare, whose Hamlet, for instance, in an
analogous manner talks more superficially than he acts, so that the
previously mentioned lesson of Hamlet is to be gathered not from his
words, but from a more profound contemplation and survey of the whole.
With respect to Greek tragedy, which of course presents itself to us
only as word-drama, I have even intimated that the incongruence between
myth and expression might easily tempt us to regard it as shallower
and less significant than it really is, and accordingly to postulate
for it a more superficial effect than it must have had according to
the testimony of the ancients: for how easily one forgets that what
the word-poet did not succeed in doing, namely realising the highest
spiritualisation and ideality of myth, he might succeed in doing
every moment as creative musician! We require, to be sure, almost by
philological method to reconstruct for ourselves the ascendency of
musical influence in order to receive something of the incomparable
comfort which must be characteristic of true tragedy. Even this musical
ascendency, however, would only have been felt by us as such had
we been Greeks: while in the entire development of Greek music--as
compared with the infinitely richer music known and familiar to us--we
imagine we hear only the youthful song of the musical genius intoned
with a feeling of diffidence. The Greeks are, as the Egyptian priests
say, eternal children, and in tragic art also they are only children
who do not know what a sublime play-thing has originated under their
hands and--is being demolished.

That striving of the spirit of music for symbolic and mythical
manifestation, which increases from the beginnings of lyric poetry to
Attic tragedy, breaks off all of a sudden immediately after attaining
luxuriant development, and disappears, as it were, from the surface
of Hellenic art: while the Dionysian view of things born of this
striving lives on in Mysteries and, in its strangest metamorphoses and
debasements, does not cease to attract earnest natures. Will it not one
day rise again as art out of its mystic depth?

Here the question occupies us, whether the power by the counteracting
influence of which tragedy perished, has for all time strength enough
to prevent the artistic reawaking of tragedy and of the tragic view
of things. If ancient tragedy was driven from its course by the
dialectical desire for knowledge and the optimism of science, it might
be inferred that there is an eternal conflict between _the theoretic_
and _the tragic view of things,_ and only after the spirit of science
has been led to its boundaries, and its claim to universal validity
has been destroyed by the evidence of these boundaries, can we hope
for a re-birth of tragedy: for which form of culture we should have to
use the symbol _of the music-practising Socrates_ in the sense spoken
of above. In this contrast, I understand by the spirit of science the
belief which first came to light in the person of Socrates,--the belief
in the fathomableness of nature and in knowledge as a panacea.

He who recalls the immediate consequences of this restlessly
onward-pressing spirit of science will realise at once that _myth_
was annihilated by it, and that, in consequence of this annihilation,
poetry was driven as a homeless being from her natural ideal soil.
If we have rightly assigned to music the capacity to reproduce myth
from itself, we may in turn expect to find the spirit of science on
the path where it inimically opposes this mythopoeic power of music.
This takes place in the development of the _New Attic Dithyramb,_ the
music of which no longer expressed the inner essence, the will itself,
but only rendered the phenomenon insufficiently, in an imitation by
means of concepts; from which intrinsically degenerate music the truly
musical natures turned away with the same repugnance that they felt
for the art-destroying tendency of Socrates. The unerring instinct of
Aristophanes surely did the proper thing when it comprised Socrates
himself, the tragedy of Euripides, and the music of the new Dithyrambic
poets in the same feeling of hatred, and perceived in all three
phenomena the symptoms of a degenerate culture. By this New Dithyramb,
music has in an outrageous manner been made the imitative portrait of
phenomena, for instance, of a battle or a storm at sea, and has thus,
of course, been entirely deprived of its mythopoeic power. For if it
endeavours to excite our delight only by compelling us to seek external
analogies between a vital or natural process and certain rhythmical
figures and characteristic sounds of music; if our understanding is
expected to satisfy itself with the perception of these analogies, we
are reduced to a frame of mind in which the reception of the mythical
is impossible; for the myth as a unique exemplar of generality
and truth towering into the infinite, desires to be conspicuously
perceived. The truly Dionysean music presents itself to us as such
a general mirror of the universal will: the conspicuous event which
is refracted in this mirror expands at once for our consciousness to
the copy of an eternal truth. Conversely, such a conspicious event is
at once divested of every mythical character by the tone-painting
of the New Dithyramb; music has here become a wretched copy of the
phenomenon, and therefore infinitely poorer than the phenomenon itself:
through which poverty it still further reduces even the phenomenon for
our consciousness, so that now, for instance, a musically imitated
battle of this sort exhausts itself in marches, signal-sounds, etc.,
and our imagination is arrested precisely by these superficialities.
Tone-painting is therefore in every respect the counterpart of true
music with its mythopoeic power: through it the phenomenon, poor in
itself, is made still poorer, while through an isolated Dionysian music
the phenomenon is evolved and expanded into a picture of the world.
It was an immense triumph of the non-Dionysian spirit, when, in the
development of the New Dithyramb, it had estranged music from itself
and reduced it to be the slave of phenomena. Euripides, who, albeit in
a higher sense, must be designated as a thoroughly unmusical nature,
is for this very reason a passionate adherent of the New Dithyrambic
Music, and with the liberality of a freebooter employs all its
effective turns and mannerisms.

In another direction also we see at work the power of this
un-Dionysian, myth-opposing spirit, when we turn our eyes to the
prevalence of _character representation_ and psychological refinement
from Sophocles onwards. The character must no longer be expanded into
an eternal type, but, on the contrary, must operate individually
through artistic by-traits and shadings, through the nicest precision
of all lines, in such a manner that the spectator is in general no
longer conscious of the myth, but of the mighty nature-myth and the
imitative power of the artist. Here also we observe the victory of
the phenomenon over the Universal, and the delight in the particular
quasi-anatomical preparation; we actually breathe the air of a
theoretical world, in which scientific knowledge is valued more highly
than the artistic reflection of a universal law. The movement along
the line of the representation of character proceeds rapidly: while
Sophocles still delineates complete characters and employs myth for
their refined development, Euripides already delineates only prominent
individual traits of character, which can express themselves in violent
bursts of passion; in the New Attic Comedy, however, there are only
masks with _one_ expression: frivolous old men, duped panders, and
cunning slaves in untiring repetition. Where now is the mythopoeic
spirit of music? What is still left now of music is either excitatory
music or souvenir music, that is, either a stimulant for dull and
used-up nerves, or tone-painting. As regards the former, it hardly
matters about the text set to it: the heroes and choruses of Euripides
are already dissolute enough when once they begin to sing; to what pass
must things have come with his brazen successors?

The new un-Dionysian spirit, however, manifests itself most clearly in
the _dénouements_ of the new dramas. In the Old Tragedy one could feel
at the close the metaphysical comfort, without which the delight in
tragedy cannot be explained at all; the conciliating tones from another
world sound purest, perhaps, in the Œdipus at Colonus. Now that the
genius of music has fled from tragedy, tragedy is, strictly speaking,
dead: for from whence could one now draw the metaphysical comfort? One
sought, therefore, for an earthly unravelment of the tragic dissonance;
the hero, after he had been sufficiently tortured by fate, reaped a
well-deserved reward through a superb marriage or divine tokens of
favour. The hero had turned gladiator, on whom, after being liberally
battered about and covered with wounds, freedom was occasionally
bestowed. The _deus ex machina_ took the place of metaphysical comfort.
I will not say that the tragic view of things was everywhere completely
destroyed by the intruding spirit of the un-Dionysian: we only know
that it was compelled to flee from art into the under-world as it were,
in the degenerate form of a secret cult. Over the widest extent of the
Hellenic character, however, there raged the consuming blast of this
spirit, which manifests itself in the form of "Greek cheerfulness,"
which we have already spoken of as a senile, unproductive love of
existence; this cheerfulness is the counterpart of the splendid
"naïveté" of the earlier Greeks, which, according to the characteristic
indicated above, must be conceived as the blossom of the Apollonian
culture growing out of a dark abyss, as the victory which the Hellenic
will, through its mirroring of beauty, obtains over suffering and the
wisdom of suffering. The noblest manifestation of that other form of
"Greek cheerfulness," the Alexandrine, is the cheerfulness of the
_theoretical man_: it exhibits the same symptomatic characteristics as
I have just inferred concerning the spirit of the un-Dionysian:--it
combats Dionysian wisdom and art, it seeks to dissolve myth, it
substitutes for metaphysical comfort an earthly consonance, in fact, a
_deus ex machina_ of its own, namely the god of machines and crucibles,
that is, the powers of the genii of nature recognised and employed in
the service of higher egoism; it believes in amending the world by
knowledge, in guiding life by science, and that it can really confine
the individual within a narrow sphere of solvable problems, where he
cheerfully says to life: "I desire thee: it is worth while to know
thee."



18.


It is an eternal phenomenon: the avidious will can always, by means
of an illusion spread over things, detain its creatures in life
and compel them to live on. One is chained by the Socratic love of
knowledge and the vain hope of being able thereby to heal the eternal
wound of existence; another is ensnared by art's seductive veil of
beauty fluttering before his eyes; still another by the metaphysical
comfort that eternal life flows on indestructibly beneath the whirl of
phenomena: to say nothing of the more ordinary and almost more powerful
illusions which the will has always at hand. These three specimens of
illusion are on the whole designed only for the more nobly endowed
natures, who in general feel profoundly the weight and burden of
existence, and must be deluded into forgetfulness of their displeasure
by exquisite stimulants. All that we call culture is made up of these
stimulants; and, according to the proportion of the ingredients, we
have either a specially _Socratic_ or _artistic_ or _tragic culture_:
or, if historical exemplifications are wanted, there is either an
Alexandrine or a Hellenic or a Buddhistic culture.

Our whole modern world is entangled in the meshes of Alexandrine
culture, and recognises as its ideal the _theorist_ equipped with
the most potent means of knowledge, and labouring in the service of
science, of whom the archetype and progenitor is Socrates. All our
educational methods have originally this ideal in view: every other
form of existence must struggle onwards wearisomely beside it, as
something tolerated, but not intended. In an almost alarming manner the
cultured man was here found for a long time only in the form of the
scholar: even our poetical arts have been forced to evolve from learned
imitations, and in the main effect of the rhyme we still recognise the
origin of our poetic form from artistic experiments with a non-native
and thoroughly learned language. How unintelligible must _Faust,_ the
modern cultured man, who is in himself intelligible, have appeared to a
true Greek,--Faust, storming discontentedly through all the faculties,
devoted to magic and the devil from a desire for knowledge, whom we
have only to place alongside of Socrates for the purpose of comparison,
in order to see that modern man begins to divine the boundaries of
this Socratic love of perception and longs for a coast in the wide
waste of the ocean of knowledge. When Goethe on one occasion said to
Eckermann with reference to Napoleon: "Yes, my good friend, there is
also a productiveness of deeds," he reminded us in a charmingly naïve
manner that the non-theorist is something incredible and astounding to
modern man; so that the wisdom of Goethe is needed once more in order
to discover that such a surprising form of existence is comprehensible,
nay even pardonable.

Now, we must not hide from ourselves what is concealed in the heart
of this Socratic culture: Optimism, deeming itself absolute! Well, we
must not be alarmed if the fruits of this optimism ripen,--if society,
leavened to the very lowest strata by this kind of culture, gradually
begins to tremble through wanton agitations and desires, if the belief
in the earthly happiness of all, if the belief in the possibility of
such a general intellectual culture is gradually transformed into the
threatening demand for such an Alexandrine earthly happiness, into
the conjuring of a Euripidean _deus ex machina._ Let us mark this
well: the Alexandrine culture requires a slave class, to be able to
exist permanently: but, in its optimistic view of life, it denies the
necessity of such a class, and consequently, when the effect of its
beautifully seductive and tranquillising utterances about the "dignity
of man" and the "dignity of labour" is spent, it gradually drifts
towards a dreadful destination. There is nothing more terrible than
a barbaric slave class, who have learned to regard their existence
as an injustice, and now prepare to take vengeance, not only for
themselves, but for all generations. In the face of such threatening
storms, who dares to appeal with confident spirit to our pale and
exhausted religions, which even in their foundations have degenerated
into scholastic religions?--so that myth, the necessary prerequisite
of every religion, is already paralysed everywhere, and even in this
domain the optimistic spirit--which we have just designated as the
annihilating germ of society--has attained the mastery.

While the evil slumbering in the heart of theoretical culture gradually
begins to disquiet modern man, and makes him anxiously ransack the
stores of his experience for means to avert the danger, though not
believing very much in these means; while he, therefore, begins to
divine the consequences his position involves: great, universally
gifted natures have contrived, with an incredible amount of thought, to
make use of the apparatus of science itself, in order to point out the
limits and the relativity of knowledge generally, and thus definitely
to deny the claim of science to universal validity and universal ends:
with which demonstration the illusory notion was for the first time
recognised as such, which pretends, with the aid of causality, to be
able to fathom the innermost essence of things. The extraordinary
courage and wisdom of _Kant_ and _Schopenhauer_ have succeeded in
gaining the most, difficult, victory, the victory over the optimism
hidden in the essence of logic, which optimism in turn is the basis of
our culture. While this optimism, resting on apparently unobjectionable
_æterna veritates,_ believed in the intelligibility and solvability of
all the riddles of the world, and treated space, time, and causality
as totally unconditioned laws of the most universal validity, Kant, on
the other hand, showed that these served in reality only to elevate the
mere phenomenon, the work of Mâyâ, to the sole and highest reality,
putting it in place of the innermost and true essence of things, thus
making the actual knowledge of this essence impossible, that is,
according to the expression of Schopenhauer, to lull the dreamer still
more soundly asleep (_Welt als Wille und Vorstellung,_ I. 498). With
this knowledge a culture is inaugurated which I venture to designate as
a tragic culture; the most important characteristic of which is that
wisdom takes the place of science as the highest end,--wisdom, which,
uninfluenced by the seductive distractions of the sciences, turns
with unmoved eye to the comprehensive view of the world, and seeks to
apprehend therein the eternal suffering as its own with sympathetic
feelings of love. Let us imagine a rising generation with this
undauntedness of vision, with this heroic desire for the prodigious,
let us imagine the bold step of these dragon-slayers, the proud and
daring spirit with which they turn their backs on all the effeminate
doctrines of optimism in order "to live resolutely" in the Whole and in
the Full: would it not be necessary for the tragic man of this culture,
with his self-discipline to earnestness and terror, to desire a new
art, the art of metaphysical comfort,--namely, tragedy, as the Hellena
belonging to him, and that he should exclaim with Faust:

    Und sollt' ich nicht, sehnsüchtigster Gewalt,
    In's Leben ziehn die einzigste Gestalt?[21]

But now that the Socratic culture has been shaken from two directions,
and is only able to hold the sceptre of its infallibility with
trembling hands,--once by the fear of its own conclusions which it at
length begins to surmise, and again, because it is no longer convinced
with its former naïve trust of the eternal validity of its foundation,
--it is a sad spectacle to behold how the dance of its thought always
rushes longingly on new forms, to embrace them, and then, shuddering,
lets them go of a sudden, as Mephistopheles does the seductive Lamiæ.
It is certainly the symptom of the "breach" which all are wont to speak
of as the primordial suffering of modern culture that the theoretical
man, alarmed and dissatisfied at his own conclusions, no longer dares
to entrust himself to the terrible ice-stream of existence: he runs
timidly up and down the bank. He no longer wants to have anything
entire, with all the natural cruelty of things, so thoroughly has he
been spoiled by his optimistic contemplation. Besides, he feels that
a culture built up on the principles of science must perish when it
begins to grow _illogical,_ that is, to avoid its own conclusions.
Our art reveals this universal trouble: in vain does one seek help by
imitating all the great productive periods and natures, in vain does
one accumulate the entire "world-literature" around modern man for
his comfort, in vain does one place one's self in the midst of the
art-styles and artists of all ages, so that one may give names to them
as Adam did to the beasts: one still continues the eternal hungerer,
the "critic" without joy and energy, the Alexandrine man, who is in
the main a librarian and corrector of proofs, and who, pitiable wretch
goes blind from the dust of books and printers' errors.


[21] Cf. Introduction, p. 14.



19.


We cannot designate the intrinsic substance of Socratic culture more
distinctly than by calling it _the culture of the opera_: for it is in
this department that culture has expressed itself with special naïveté
concerning its aims and perceptions, which is sufficiently surprising
when we compare the genesis of the opera and the facts of operatic
development with the eternal truths of the Apollonian and Dionysian.
I call to mind first of all the origin of the _stilo rappresentativo_
and the recitative. Is it credible that this thoroughly externalised
operatic music, incapable of devotion, could be received and cherished
with enthusiastic favour, as a re-birth, as it were, of all true music,
by the very age in which the ineffably sublime and sacred music of
Palestrina had originated? And who, on the other hand, would think of
making only the diversion-craving luxuriousness of those Florentine
circles and the vanity of their dramatic singers responsible for the
love of the opera which spread with such rapidity? That in the same
age, even among the same people, this passion for a half-musical
mode of speech should awaken alongside of the vaulted structure
of Palestrine harmonies which the entire Christian Middle Age had
been building up, I can explain to myself only by a co-operating
_extra-artistic tendency_ in the essence of the recitative.

The listener, who insists on distinctly hearing the words under the
music, has his wishes met by the singer in that he speaks rather than
sings, and intensifies the pathetic expression of the words in this
half-song: by this intensification of the pathos he facilitates the
understanding of the words and surmounts the remaining half of the
music. The specific danger which now threatens him is that in some
unguarded moment he may give undue importance to music, which would
forthwith result in the destruction of the pathos of the speech and
the distinctness of the words: while, on the other hand, he always
feels himself impelled to musical delivery and to virtuose exhibition
of vocal talent. Here the "poet" comes to his aid, who knows how to
provide him with abundant opportunities for lyrical interjections,
repetitions of words and sentences, etc.,--at which places the singer,
now in the purely musical element, can rest himself without minding the
words. This alternation of emotionally impressive, yet only half-sung
speech and wholly sung interjections, which is characteristic of the
_stilo rappresentativo,_ this rapidly changing endeavour to operate
now on the conceptional and representative faculty of the hearer, now
on his musical sense, is something so thoroughly unnatural and withal
so intrinsically contradictory both to the Apollonian and Dionysian
artistic impulses, that one has to infer an origin of the recitative
foreign to all artistic instincts. The recitative must be defined,
according to this description, as the combination of epic and lyric
delivery, not indeed as an intrinsically stable combination which
could not be attained in the case of such totally disparate elements,
but an entirely superficial mosaic conglutination, such as is totally
unprecedented in the domain of nature and experience. _But this was
not the opinion of the inventors of the recitative:_ they themselves,
and their age with them, believed rather that the mystery of antique
music had been solved by this _stilo rappresentativo,_ in which, as
they thought, the only explanation of the enormous influence of an
Orpheus, an Amphion, and even of Greek tragedy was to be found. The new
style was regarded by them as the re-awakening of the most effective
music, the Old Greek music: indeed, with the universal and popular
conception of the Homeric world _as the primitive world,_ they could
abandon themselves to the dream of having descended once more into the
paradisiac beginnings of mankind, wherein music also must needs have
had the unsurpassed purity, power, and innocence of which the poets
could give such touching accounts in their pastoral plays. Here we see
into the internal process of development of this thoroughly modern
variety of art, the opera: a powerful need here acquires an art, but
it is a need of an unæsthetic kind: the yearning for the idyll, the
belief in the prehistoric existence of the artistic, good man. The
recitative was regarded as the rediscovered language of this primitive
man; the opera as the recovered land of this idyllically or heroically
good creature, who in every action follows at the same time a natural
artistic impulse, who sings a little along with all he has to say, in
order to sing immediately with full voice on the slightest emotional
excitement. It is now a matter of indifference to us that the humanists
of those days combated the old ecclesiastical representation of man
as naturally corrupt and lost, with this new-created picture of the
paradisiac artist: so that opera may be understood as the oppositional
dogma of the good man, whereby however a solace was at the same time
found for the pessimism to which precisely the seriously-disposed
men of that time were most strongly incited, owing to the frightful
uncertainty of all conditions of life. It is enough to have perceived
that the intrinsic charm, and therefore the genesis, of this new form
of art lies in the gratification of an altogether unæsthetic need, in
the optimistic glorification of man as such, in the conception of the
primitive man as the man naturally good and artistic: a principle of
the opera which has gradually changed into a threatening and terrible
_demand,_ which, in face of the socialistic movements of the present
time, we can no longer ignore. The "good primitive man" wants his
rights: what paradisiac prospects!

I here place by way of parallel still another equally obvious
confirmation of my view that opera is built up on the same principles
as our Alexandrine culture. Opera is the birth of the theoretical man,
of the critical layman, not of the artist: one of the most surprising
facts in the whole history of art. It was the demand of thoroughly
unmusical hearers that the words must above all be understood, so
that according to them a re-birth of music is only to be expected
when some mode of singing has been discovered in which the text-word
lords over the counterpoint as the master over the servant. For the
words, it is argued, are as much nobler than the accompanying harmonic
system as the soul is nobler than the body. It was in accordance with
the laically unmusical crudeness of these views that the combination
of music, picture and expression was effected in the beginnings of
the opera: in the spirit of this æsthetics the first experiments
were also made in the leading laic circles of Florence by the poets
and singers patronised there. The man incapable of art creates for
himself a species of art precisely because he is the inartistic man
as such. Because he does not divine the Dionysian depth of music, he
changes his musical taste into appreciation of the understandable
word-and-tone-rhetoric of the passions in the _stilo rappresentativo,_
and into the voluptuousness of the arts of song; because he is unable
to behold a vision, he forces the machinist and the decorative artist
into his service; because he cannot apprehend the true nature of the
artist, he conjures up the "artistic primitive man" to suit his taste,
that is, the man who sings and recites verses under the influence
of passion. He dreams himself into a time when passion suffices to
generate songs and poems: as if emotion had ever been able to create
anything artistic. The postulate of the opera is a false belief
concerning the artistic process, in fact, the idyllic belief that every
sentient man is an artist. In the sense of this belief, opera is the
expression of the taste of the laity in art, who dictate their laws
with the cheerful optimism of the theorist.

Should we desire to unite in one the two conceptions just set forth
as influential in the origin of opera, it would only remain for us to
speak of an _idyllic tendency of the opera_: in which connection we
may avail ourselves exclusively of the phraseology and illustration of
Schiller.[22] "Nature and the ideal," he says, "are either objects of
grief, when the former is represented as lost, the latter unattained;
or both are objects of joy, in that they are represented as real.
The first case furnishes the elegy in its narrower signification,
the second the idyll in its widest sense." Here we must at once call
attention to the common characteristic of these two conceptions in
operatic genesis, namely, that in them the ideal is not regarded as
unattained or nature as lost Agreeably to this sentiment, there was
a primitive age of man when he lay close to the heart of nature,
and, owing to this naturalness, had attained the ideal of mankind in
a paradisiac goodness and artist-organisation: from which perfect
primitive man all of us were supposed to be descended; whose faithful
copy we were in fact still said to be: only we had to cast off some
few things in order to recognise ourselves once more as this primitive
man, on the strength of a voluntary renunciation of superfluous
learnedness, of super-abundant culture. It was to such a concord of
nature and the ideal, to an idyllic reality, that the cultured man
of the Renaissance suffered himself to be led back by his operatic
imitation of Greek tragedy; he made use of this tragedy, as Dante made
use of Vergil, in order to be led up to the gates of paradise: while
from this point he went on without assistance and passed over from an
imitation of the highest form of Greek art to a "restoration of all
things," to an imitation of man's original art-world. What delightfully
naïve hopefulness of these daring endeavours, in the very heart of
theoretical culture!--solely to be explained by the comforting belief,
that "man-in-himself" is the eternally virtuous hero of the opera,
the eternally fluting or singing shepherd, who must always in the end
rediscover himself as such, if he has at any time really lost himself;
solely the fruit of the optimism, which here rises like a sweetishly
seductive column of vapour out of the depth of the Socratic conception
of the world.

The features of the opera therefore do not by any means exhibit the
elegiac sorrow of an eternal loss, but rather the cheerfulness of
eternal rediscovery, the indolent delight in an idyllic reality which
one can at least represent to one's self each moment as real: and in
so doing one will perhaps surmise some day that this supposed reality
is nothing but a fantastically silly dawdling, concerning which every
one, who could judge it by the terrible earnestness of true nature
and compare it with the actual primitive scenes of the beginnings of
mankind, would have to call out with loathing: Away with the phantom!
Nevertheless one would err if one thought it possible to frighten
away merely by a vigorous shout such a dawdling thing as the opera,
as if it were a spectre. He who would destroy the opera must join
issue with Alexandrine cheerfulness, which expresses itself so naïvely
therein concerning its favourite representation; of which in fact
it is the specific form of art. But what is to be expected for art
itself from the operation of a form of art, the beginnings of which
do not at all lie in the æsthetic province; which has rather stolen
over from a half-moral sphere into the artistic domain, and has been
able only now and then to delude us concerning this hybrid origin? By
what sap is this parasitic opera-concern nourished, if not by that
of true art? Must we not suppose that the highest and indeed the
truly serious task of art--to free the eye from its glance into the
horrors of night and to deliver the "subject" by the healing balm of
appearance from the spasms of volitional agitations--will degenerate
under the influence of its idyllic seductions and Alexandrine
adulation to an empty dissipating tendency, to pastime? What will
become of the eternal truths of the Dionysian and Apollonian in such
an amalgamation of styles as I have exhibited in the character of the
_stilo rappresentativo_? where music is regarded as the servant, the
text as the master, where music is compared with the body, the text
with the soul? where at best the highest aim will be the realisation
of a paraphrastic tone-painting, just as formerly in the New Attic
Dithyramb? where music is completely alienated from its true dignity
of being, the Dionysian mirror of the world, so that the only thing
left to it is, as a slave of phenomena, to imitate the formal character
thereof, and to excite an external pleasure in the play of lines and
proportions. On close observation, this fatal influence of the opera
on music is seen to coincide absolutely with the universal development
of modern music; the optimism lurking in the genesis of the opera and
in the essence of culture represented thereby, has, with alarming
rapidity, succeeded in divesting music of its Dionyso-cosmic mission
and in impressing on it a playfully formal and pleasurable character: a
change with which perhaps only the metamorphosis of the Æschylean man
into the cheerful Alexandrine man could be compared.

If, however, in the exemplification herewith indicated we have rightly
associated the evanescence of the Dionysian spirit with a most
striking, but hitherto unexplained transformation and degeneration of
the Hellene--what hopes must revive in us when the most trustworthy
auspices guarantee _the reverse process, the gradual awakening of
the Dionysian spirit_ in our modern world! It is impossible for the
divine strength of Herakles to languish for ever in voluptuous bondage
to Omphale. Out of the Dionysian root of the German spirit a power
has arisen which has nothing in common with the primitive conditions
of Socratic culture, and can neither be explained nor excused
thereby, but is rather regarded by this culture as something terribly
inexplicable and overwhelmingly hostile,--namely, _German music_ as
we have to understand it, especially in its vast solar orbit from
Bach to Beethoven, from Beethoven to Wagner. What even under the most
favourable circumstances can the knowledge-craving Socratism of our
days do with this demon rising from unfathomable depths? Neither by
means of the zig-zag and arabesque work of operatic melody, nor with
the aid of the arithmetical counting board of fugue and contrapuntal
dialectics is the formula to be found, in the trebly powerful light[23]
of which one could subdue this demon and compel it to speak. What
a spectacle, when our æsthetes, with a net of "beauty" peculiar to
themselves, now pursue and clutch at the genius of music romping
about before them with incomprehensible life, and in so doing display
activities which are not to be judged by the standard of eternal beauty
any more than by the standard of the sublime. Let us but observe these
patrons of music as they are, at close range, when they call out so
indefatigably "beauty! beauty!" to discover whether they have the marks
of nature's darling children who are fostered and fondled in the lap
of the beautiful, or whether they do not rather seek a disguise for
their own rudeness, an æsthetical pretext for their own unemotional
insipidity: I am thinking here, for instance, of Otto Jahn. But let the
liar and the hypocrite beware of our German music: for in the midst
of all our culture it is really the only genuine, pure and purifying
fire-spirit from which and towards which, as in the teaching of the
great Heraclitus of Ephesus, all things move in a double orbit-all
that we now call culture, education, civilisation, must appear some day
before the unerring judge, Dionysus.

Let us recollect furthermore how Kant and Schopenhauer made it
possible for the spirit of _German philosophy_ streaming from the
same sources to annihilate the satisfied delight in existence of
scientific Socratism by the delimitation of the boundaries thereof; how
through this delimitation an infinitely profounder and more serious
view of ethical problems and of art was inaugurated, which we may
unhesitatingly designate as _Dionysian_ wisdom comprised in concepts.
To what then does the mystery of this oneness of German music and
philosophy point, if not to a new form of existence, concerning the
substance of which we can only inform ourselves presentiently from
Hellenic analogies? For to us who stand on the boundary line between
two different forms of existence, the Hellenic prototype retains the
immeasurable value, that therein all these transitions and struggles
are imprinted in a classically instructive form: except that we, as
it were, experience analogically in _reverse_ order the chief epochs
of the Hellenic genius, and seem now, for instance, to pass backwards
from the Alexandrine age to the period of tragedy. At the same time
we have the feeling that the birth of a tragic age betokens only a
return to itself of the German spirit, a blessed self-rediscovering
after excessive and urgent external influences have for a long time
compelled it, living as it did in helpless barbaric formlessness, to
servitude under their form. It may at last, after returning to the
primitive source of its being, venture to stalk along boldly and freely
before all nations without hugging the leading-strings of a Romanic
civilisation: if only it can learn implicitly of one people--the
Greeks, of whom to learn at all is itself a high honour and a rare
distinction. And when did we require these highest of all teachers more
than at present, when we experience _a re-birth of tragedy_ and are in
danger alike of not knowing whence it comes, and of being unable to
make clear to ourselves whither it tends.


[22] Essay on Elegiac Poetry.--TR.

[23] See _Faust,_ Part 1.1. 965--TR.



20.


It may be weighed some day before an impartial judge, in what time and
in what men the German spirit has thus far striven most resolutely to
learn of the Greeks: and if we confidently assume that this unique
praise must be accorded to the noblest intellectual efforts of Goethe,
Schiller, and Winkelmann, it will certainly have to be added that
since their time, and subsequently to the more immediate influences of
these efforts, the endeavour to attain to culture and to the Greeks by
this path has in an incomprehensible manner grown feebler and feebler.
In order not to despair altogether of the German spirit, must we not
infer therefrom that possibly, in some essential matter, even these
champions could not penetrate into the core of the Hellenic nature,
and were unable to establish a permanent friendly alliance between
German and Greek culture? So that perhaps an unconscious perception
of this shortcoming might raise also in more serious minds the
disheartening doubt as to whether after such predecessors they could
advance still farther on this path of culture, or could reach the goal
at all. Accordingly, we see the opinions concerning the value of Greek
contribution to culture degenerate since that time in the most alarming
manner; the expression of compassionate superiority may be heard
in the most heterogeneous intellectual and non-intellectual camps,
and elsewhere a totally ineffective declamation dallies with "Greek
harmony," "Greek beauty," "Greek cheerfulness." And in the very circles
whose dignity it might be to draw indefatigably from the Greek channel
for the good of German culture, in the circles of the teachers in the
higher educational institutions, they have learned best to compromise
with the Greeks in good time and on easy terms, to the extent often of
a sceptical abandonment of the Hellenic ideal and a total perversion of
the true purpose of antiquarian studies. If there be any one at all in
these circles who has not completely exhausted himself in the endeavour
to be a trustworthy corrector of old texts or a natural-history
microscopist of language, he perhaps seeks also to appropriate Grecian
antiquity "historically" along with other antiquities, and in any case
according to the method and with the supercilious air of our present
cultured historiography. When, therefore, the intrinsic efficiency
of the higher educational institutions has never perhaps been lower
or feebler than at present, when the "journalist," the paper slave
of the day, has triumphed over the academic teacher in all matters
pertaining to culture, and there only remains to the latter the often
previously experienced metamorphosis of now fluttering also, as a
cheerful cultured butterfly, in the idiom of the journalist, with the
"light elegance" peculiar thereto--with what painful confusion must the
cultured persons of a period like the present gaze at the phenomenon
(which can perhaps be comprehended analogically only by means of the
profoundest principle of the hitherto unintelligible Hellenic genius)
of the reawakening of the Dionysian spirit and the re-birth of tragedy?
Never has there been another art-period in which so-called culture
and true art have been so estranged and opposed, as is so obviously
the case at present. We understand why so feeble a culture hates true
art; it fears destruction thereby. But must not an entire domain of
culture, namely the Socratic-Alexandrine, have exhausted its powers
after contriving to culminate in such a daintily-tapering point as our
present culture? When it was not permitted to heroes like Goethe and
Schiller to break open the enchanted gate which leads into the Hellenic
magic mountain, when with their most dauntless striving they did not
get beyond the longing gaze which the Goethean Iphigenia cast from
barbaric Tauris to her home across the ocean, what could the epigones
of such heroes hope for, if the gate should not open to them suddenly
of its own accord, in an entirely different position, quite overlooked
in all endeavours of culture hitherto--amidst the mystic tones of
reawakened tragic music.

Let no one attempt to weaken our faith in an impending re-birth of
Hellenic antiquity; for in it alone we find our hope of a renovation
and purification of the German spirit through the fire-magic of music.
What else do we know of amidst the present desolation and languor
of culture, which could awaken any comforting expectation for the
future? We look in vain for one single vigorously-branching root, for
a speck of fertile and healthy soil: there is dust, sand, torpidness
and languishing everywhere! Under such circumstances a cheerless
solitary wanderer could choose for himself no better symbol than the
Knight with Death and the Devil, as Dürer has sketched him for us, the
mail-clad knight, grim and stern of visage, who is able, unperturbed
by his gruesome companions, and yet hopelessly, to pursue his terrible
path with horse and hound alone. Our Schopenhauer was such a Dürerian
knight: he was destitute of all hope, but he sought the truth. There is
not his equal.

But how suddenly this gloomily depicted wilderness of our exhausted
culture changes when the Dionysian magic touches it! A hurricane
seizes everything decrepit, decaying, collapsed, and stunted; wraps
it whirlingly into a red cloud of dust; and carries it like a vulture
into the air. Confused thereby, our glances seek for what has vanished:
for what they see is something risen to the golden light as from
a depression, so full and green, so luxuriantly alive, so ardently
infinite. Tragedy sits in the midst of this exuberance of life,
sorrow and joy, in sublime ecstasy; she listens to a distant doleful
song--it tells of the Mothers of Being, whose names are: _Wahn, Wille,
Wehe_[21]--Yes, my friends, believe with me in Dionysian life and
in the re-birth of tragedy. The time of the Socratic man is past:
crown yourselves with ivy, take in your hands the thyrsus, and do not
marvel if tigers and panthers lie down fawning at your feet. Dare now
to be tragic men, for ye are to be redeemed! Ye are to accompany the
Dionysian festive procession from India to Greece! Equip yourselves for
severe conflict, but believe in the wonders of your god!



21.


Gliding back from these hortative tones into the mood which befits
the contemplative man, I repeat that it can only be learnt from the
Greeks what such a sudden and miraculous awakening of tragedy must
signify for the essential basis of a people's life. It is the people
of the tragic mysteries who fight the battles with the Persians: and
again, the people who waged such wars required tragedy as a necessary
healing potion. Who would have imagined that there was still such a
uniformly powerful effusion of the simplest political sentiments, the
most natural domestic instincts and the primitive manly delight in
strife in this very people after it had been shaken to its foundations
for several generations by the most violent convulsions of the
Dionysian demon? If at every considerable spreading of the Dionysian
commotion one always perceives that the Dionysian loosing from the
shackles of the individual makes itself felt first of all in an
increased encroachment on the political instincts, to the extent of
indifference, yea even hostility, it is certain, on the other hand,
that the state-forming Apollo is also the genius of the _principium
individuationis,_ and that the state and domestic sentiment cannot live
without an assertion of individual personality. There is only one way
from orgasm for a people,--the way to Indian Buddhism, which, in order
to be at all endured with its longing for nothingness, requires the
rare ecstatic states with their elevation above space, time, and the
individual; just as these in turn demand a philosophy which teaches how
to overcome the indescribable depression of the intermediate states by
means of a fancy. With the same necessity, owing to the unconditional
dominance of political impulses, a people drifts into a path of
extremest secularisation, the most magnificent, but also the most
terrible expression of which is the Roman _imperium_.

Placed between India and Rome, and constrained to a seductive choice,
the Greeks succeeded in devising in classical purity still a third form
of life, not indeed for long private use, but just on that account for
immortality. For it holds true in all things that those whom the gods
love die young, but, on the other hand, it holds equally true that they
then live eternally with the gods. One must not demand of what is most
noble that it should possess the durable toughness of leather; the
staunch durability, which, for instance, was inherent in the national
character of the Romans, does not probably belong to the indispensable
predicates of perfection. But if we ask by what physic it was possible
for the Greeks, in their best period, notwithstanding the extraordinary
strength of their Dionysian and political impulses, neither to exhaust
themselves by ecstatic brooding, nor by a consuming scramble for empire
and worldly honour, but to attain the splendid mixture which we find
in a noble, inflaming, and contemplatively disposing wine, we must
remember the enormous power of _tragedy,_ exciting, purifying, and
disburdening the entire life of a people; the highest value of which
we shall divine only when, as in the case of the Greeks, it appears
to us as the essence of all the prophylactic healing forces, as the
mediator arbitrating between the strongest and most inherently fateful
characteristics of a people.

Tragedy absorbs the highest musical orgasm into itself, so that it
absolutely brings music to perfection among the Greeks, as among
ourselves; but it then places alongside thereof tragic myth and the
tragic hero, who, like a mighty Titan, takes the entire Dionysian world
on his shoulders and disburdens us thereof; while, on the other hand,
it is able by means of this same tragic myth, in the person of the
tragic hero, to deliver us from the intense longing for this existence,
and reminds us with warning hand of another existence and a higher
joy, for which the struggling hero prepares himself presentiently by
his destruction, not by his victories. Tragedy sets a sublime symbol,
namely the myth between the universal authority of its music and the
receptive Dionysian hearer, and produces in him the illusion that music
is only the most effective means for the animation of the plastic world
of myth. Relying upon this noble illusion, she can now move her limbs
for the dithyrambic dance, and abandon herself unhesitatingly to an
orgiastic feeling of freedom, in which she could not venture to indulge
as music itself, without this illusion. The myth protects us from the
music, while, on the other hand, it alone gives the highest freedom
thereto. By way of return for this service, music imparts to tragic
myth such an impressive and convincing metaphysical significance as
could never be attained by word and image, without this unique aid;
and the tragic spectator in particular experiences thereby the sure
presentiment of supreme joy to which the path through destruction and
negation leads; so that he thinks he hears, as it were, the innermost
abyss of things speaking audibly to him.

If in these last propositions I have succeeded in giving perhaps only a
preliminary expression, intelligible to few at first, to this difficult
representation, I must not here desist from stimulating my friends to a
further attempt, or cease from beseeching them to prepare themselves,
by a detached example of our common experience, for the perception of
the universal proposition. In this example I must not appeal to those
who make use of the pictures of the scenic processes, the words and the
emotions of the performers, in order to approximate thereby to musical
perception; for none of these speak music as their mother-tongue,
and, in spite of the aids in question, do not get farther than the
precincts of musical perception, without ever being allowed to touch
its innermost shrines; some of them, like Gervinus, do not even reach
the precincts by this path. I have only to address myself to those
who, being immediately allied to music, have it as it were for their
mother's lap, and are connected with things almost exclusively by
unconscious musical relations. I ask the question of these genuine
musicians: whether they can imagine a man capable of hearing the third
act of _Tristan und Isolde_ without any aid of word or scenery, purely
as a vast symphonic period, without expiring by a spasmodic distention
of all the wings of the soul? A man who has thus, so to speak, put his
ear to the heart-chamber of the cosmic will, who feels the furious
desire for existence issuing therefrom as a thundering stream or most
gently dispersed brook, into all the veins of the world, would he not
collapse all at once? Could he endure, in the wretched fragile tenement
of the human individual, to hear the re-echo of countless cries of
joy and sorrow from the "vast void of cosmic night," without flying
irresistibly towards his primitive home at the sound of this pastoral
dance-song of metaphysics? But if, nevertheless, such a work can be
heard as a whole, without a renunciation of individual existence, if
such a creation could be created without demolishing its creator--where
are we to get the solution of this contradiction?

Here there interpose between our highest musical excitement and the
music in question the tragic myth and the tragic hero--in reality only
as symbols of the most universal facts, of which music alone can speak
directly. If, however, we felt as purely Dionysian beings, myth as a
symbol would stand by us absolutely ineffective and unnoticed, and
would never for a moment prevent us from giving ear to the re-echo of
the _universalia ante rem._ Here, however, the _Apollonian_ power, with
a view to the restoration of the well-nigh shattered individual, bursts
forth with the healing balm of a blissful illusion: all of a sudden
we imagine we see only Tristan, motionless, with hushed voice saying
to himself: "the old tune, why does it wake me?" And what formerly
interested us like a hollow sigh from the heart of being, seems now
only to tell us how "waste and void is the sea." And when, breathless,
we thought to expire by a convulsive distention of all our feelings,
and only a slender tie bound us to our present existence, we now hear
and see only the hero wounded to death and still not dying, with his
despairing cry: "Longing! Longing! In dying still longing! for longing
not dying!" And if formerly, after such a surplus and superabundance of
consuming agonies, the jubilation of the born rent our hearts almost
like the very acme of agony, the rejoicing Kurwenal now stands between
us and the "jubilation as such," with face turned toward the ship which
carries Isolde. However powerfully fellow-suffering encroaches upon us,
it nevertheless delivers us in a manner from the primordial suffering
of the world, just as the symbol-image of the myth delivers us from the
immediate perception of the highest cosmic idea, just as the thought
and word deliver us from the unchecked effusion of the unconscious
will. The glorious Apollonian illusion makes it appear as if the very
realm of tones presented itself to us as a plastic cosmos, as if even
the fate of Tristan and Isolde had been merely formed and moulded
therein as out of some most delicate and impressible material.

Thus does the Apollonian wrest us from Dionysian universality and fill
us with rapture for individuals; to these it rivets our sympathetic
emotion, through these it satisfies the sense of beauty which longs for
great and sublime forms; it brings before us biographical portraits,
and incites us to a thoughtful apprehension of the essence of life
contained therein. With the immense potency of the image, the concept,
the ethical teaching and the sympathetic emotion--the Apollonian
influence uplifts man from his orgiastic self-annihilation, and
beguiles him concerning the universality of the Dionysian process
into the belief that he is seeing a detached picture of the world,
for instance, Tristan and Isolde, and that, _through music,_ he will
be enabled to _see_ it still more clearly and intrinsically. What can
the healing magic of Apollo not accomplish when it can even excite in
us the illusion that the Dionysian is actually in the service of the
Apollonian, the effects of which it is capable of enhancing; yea, that
music is essentially the representative art for an Apollonian substance?

With the pre-established harmony which obtains between perfect drama
and its music, the drama attains the highest degree of conspicuousness,
such as is usually unattainable in mere spoken drama. As all the
animated figures of the scene in the independently evolved lines
of melody simplify themselves before us to the distinctness of the
catenary curve, the coexistence of these lines is also audible in the
harmonic change which sympathises in a most delicate manner with the
evolved process: through which change the relations of things become
immediately perceptible to us in a sensible and not at all abstract
manner, as we likewise perceive thereby that it is only in these
relations that the essence of a character and of a line of melody
manifests itself clearly. And while music thus compels us to see more
extensively and more intrinsically than usual, and makes us spread out
the curtain of the scene before ourselves like some delicate texture,
the world of the stage is as infinitely expanded for our spiritualised,
introspective eye as it is illumined outwardly from within. How can
the word-poet furnish anything analogous, who strives to attain this
internal expansion and illumination of the visible stage-world by a
much more imperfect mechanism and an indirect path, proceeding as he
does from word and concept? Albeit musical tragedy likewise avails
itself of the word, it is at the same time able to place alongside
thereof its basis and source, and can make the unfolding of the word,
from within outwards, obvious to us.

Of the process just set forth, however, it could still be said
as decidedly that it is only a glorious appearance, namely the
afore-mentioned Apollonian _illusion,_ through the influence of which
we are to be delivered from the Dionysian obtrusion and excess.
In point of fact, the relation of music to drama is precisely the
reverse; music is the adequate idea of the world, drama is but the
reflex of this idea, a detached umbrage thereof. The identity between
the line of melody and the lining form, between the harmony and the
character-relations of this form, is true in a sense antithetical to
what one would suppose on the contemplation of musical tragedy. We
may agitate and enliven the form in the most conspicuous manner, and
enlighten it from within, but it still continues merely phenomenon,
from which there is no bridge to lead us into the true reality, into
the heart of the world. Music, however, speaks out of this heart; and
though countless phenomena of the kind might be passing manifestations
of this music, they could never exhaust its essence, but would always
be merely its externalised copies. Of course, as regards the intricate
relation of music and drama, nothing can be explained, while all may
be confused by the popular and thoroughly false antithesis of soul and
body; but the unphilosophical crudeness of this antithesis seems to
have become--who knows for what reasons--a readily accepted Article of
Faith with our æstheticians, while they have learned nothing concerning
an antithesis of phenomenon and thing-in-itself, or perhaps, for
reasons equally unknown, have not cared to learn anything thereof.

Should it have been established by our analysis that the Apollonian
element in tragedy has by means of its illusion gained a complete
victory over the Dionysian primordial element of music, and has made
music itself subservient to its end, namely, the highest and clearest
elucidation of the drama, it would certainly be necessary to add the
very important restriction: that at the most essential point this
Apollonian illusion is dissolved and annihilated. The drama, which, by
the aid of music, spreads out before us with such inwardly illumined
distinctness in all its movements and figures, that we imagine we
see the texture unfolding on the loom as the shuttle flies to and
fro,--attains as a whole an effect which _transcends all Apollonian
artistic effects._ In the collective effect of tragedy, the Dionysian
gets the upper hand once more; tragedy ends with a sound which could
never emanate from the realm of Apollonian art. And the Apollonian
illusion is thereby found to be what it is,--the assiduous veiling
during the performance of tragedy of the intrinsically Dionysian
effect: which, however, is so powerful, that it finally forces
the Apollonian drama itself into a sphere where it begins to talk
with Dionysian wisdom, and even denies itself and its Apollonian
conspicuousness. Thus then the intricate relation of the Apollonian and
the Dionysian in tragedy must really be symbolised by a fraternal union
of the two deities: Dionysus speaks the language of Apollo; Apollo,
however, finally speaks the language of Dionysus; and so the highest
goal of tragedy and of art in general is attained.



22.


Let the attentive friend picture to himself purely and simply,
according to his experiences, the effect of a true musical tragedy. I
think I have so portrayed the phenomenon of this effect in both its
phases that he will now be able to interpret his own experiences. For
he will recollect that with regard to the myth which passed before
him he felt himself exalted to a kind of omniscience, as if his
visual faculty were no longer merely a surface faculty, but capable
of penetrating into the interior, and as if he now saw before him,
with the aid of music, the ebullitions of the will, the conflict of
motives, and the swelling stream of the passions, almost sensibly
visible, like a plenitude of actively moving lines and figures, and
could thereby dip into the most tender secrets of unconscious emotions.
While he thus becomes conscious of the highest exaltation of his
instincts for conspicuousness and transfiguration, he nevertheless
feels with equal definitiveness that this long series of Apollonian
artistic effects still does _not_ generate the blissful continuance in
will-less contemplation which the plasticist and the epic poet, that
is to say, the strictly Apollonian artists, produce in him by their
artistic productions: to wit, the justification of the world of the
_individuatio_ attained in this contemplation,--which is the object
and essence of Apollonian art. He beholds the transfigured world of
the stage and nevertheless denies it. He sees before him the tragic
hero in epic clearness and beauty, and nevertheless delights in his
annihilation. He comprehends the incidents of the scene in all their
details, and yet loves to flee into the incomprehensible. He feels the
actions of the hero to be justified, and is nevertheless still more
elated when these actions annihilate their originator. He shudders at
the sufferings which will befall the hero, and yet anticipates therein
a higher and much more overpowering joy. He sees more extensively and
profoundly than ever, and yet wishes to be blind. Whence must we derive
this curious internal dissension, this collapse of the Apollonian apex,
if not from the _Dionysian_ spell, which, though apparently stimulating
the Apollonian emotions to their highest pitch, can nevertheless force
this superabundance of Apollonian power into its service? _Tragic
myth_ is to be understood only as a symbolisation of Dionysian wisdom
by means of the expedients of Apollonian art: the mythus conducts the
world of phenomena to its boundaries, where it denies itself, and seeks
to flee back again into the bosom of the true and only reality; where
it then, like Isolde, seems to strike up its metaphysical swan-song:--

    In des Wonnemeeres
    wogendem Schwall,
    in der Duft-Wellen
    tönendem Schall,
    in des Weltathems
    wehendem All--
    ertrinken--versinken
    unbewusst--höchste Lust![24]

We thus realise to ourselves in the experiences of the truly æsthetic
hearer the tragic artist himself when he proceeds like a luxuriously
fertile divinity of individuation to create his figures (in which sense
his work can hardly be understood as an "imitation of nature")--and
when, on the other hand, his vast Dionysian impulse then absorbs the
entire world of phenomena, in order to anticipate beyond it, and
through its annihilation, the highest artistic primal joy, in the bosom
of the Primordial Unity. Of course, our æsthetes have nothing to say
about this return in fraternal union of the two art-deities to the
original home, nor of either the Apollonian or Dionysian excitement
of the hearer, while they are indefatigable in characterising the
struggle of the hero with fate, the triumph of the moral order of the
world, or the disburdenment of the emotions through tragedy, as the
properly Tragic: an indefatigableness which makes me think that they
are perhaps not æsthetically excitable men at all, but only to be
regarded as moral beings when hearing tragedy. Never since Aristotle
has an explanation of the tragic effect been proposed, by which an
æsthetic activity of the hearer could be inferred from artistic
circumstances. At one time fear and pity are supposed to be forced to
an alleviating discharge through the serious procedure, at another time
we are expected to feel elevated and inspired at the triumph of good
and noble principles, at the sacrifice of the hero in the interest of
a moral conception of things; and however certainly I believe that for
countless men precisely this, and only this, is the effect of tragedy,
it as obviously follows therefrom that all these, together with their
interpreting æsthetes, have had no experience of tragedy as the highest
_art._ The pathological discharge, the catharsis of Aristotle, which
philologists are at a loss whether to include under medicinal or moral
phenomena, recalls a remarkable anticipation of Goethe. "Without a
lively pathological interest," he says, "I too have never yet succeeded
in elaborating a tragic situation of any kind, and hence I have rather
avoided than sought it. Can it perhaps have been still another of the
merits of the ancients that the deepest pathos was with them merely
æsthetic play, whereas with us the truth of nature must co-operate in
order to produce such a work?" We can now answer in the affirmative
this latter profound question after our glorious experiences, in which
we have found to our astonishment in the case of musical tragedy
itself, that the deepest pathos can in reality be merely æsthetic play:
and therefore we are justified in believing that now for the first time
the proto-phenomenon of the tragic can be portrayed with some degree
of success. He who now will still persist in talking only of those
vicarious effects proceeding from ultra-æsthetic spheres, and does not
feel himself raised above the pathologically-moral process, may be left
to despair of his æsthetic nature: for which we recommend to him, by
way of innocent equivalent, the interpretation of Shakespeare after the
fashion of Gervinus, and the diligent search for poetic justice.

Thus with the re-birth of tragedy the _æsthetic hearer_ is also
born anew, in whose place in the theatre a curious _quid pro quo_
was wont to sit with half-moral and half-learned pretensions,--the
"critic." In his sphere hitherto everything has been artificial and
merely glossed over with a semblance of life. The performing artist
was in fact at a loss what to do with such a critically comporting
hearer, and hence he, as well as the dramatist or operatic composer
who inspired him, searched anxiously for the last remains of life
in a being so pretentiously barren and incapable of enjoyment. Such
"critics," however, have hitherto constituted the public; the student,
the school-boy, yea, even the most harmless womanly creature, were
already unwittingly prepared by education and by journals for a similar
perception of works of art. The nobler natures among the artists
counted upon exciting the moral-religious forces in such a public,
and the appeal to a moral order of the world operated vicariously,
when in reality some powerful artistic spell should have enraptured
the true hearer. Or again, some imposing or at all events exciting
tendency of the contemporary political and social world was presented
by the dramatist with such vividness that the hearer could forget his
critical exhaustion and abandon himself to similar emotions, as, in
patriotic or warlike moments, before the tribune of parliament, or
at the condemnation of crime and vice:--an estrangement of the true
aims of art which could not but lead directly now and then to a cult
of tendency. But here there took place what has always taken place
in the case of factitious arts, an extraordinary rapid depravation
of these tendencies, so that for instance the tendency to employ the
theatre as a means for the moral education of the people, which in
Schiller's time was taken seriously, is already reckoned among the
incredible antiquities of a surmounted culture. While the critic got
the upper hand in the theatre and concert-hall, the journalist in the
school, and the press in society, art degenerated into a topic of
conversation of the most trivial kind, and æsthetic criticism was used
as the cement of a vain, distracted, selfish and moreover piteously
unoriginal sociality, the significance of which is suggested by the
Schopenhauerian parable of the porcupines, so that there has never
been so much gossip about art and so little esteem for it. But is it
still possible to have intercourse with a man capable of conversing on
Beethoven or Shakespeare? Let each answer this question according to
his sentiments: he will at any rate show by his answer his conception
of "culture," provided he tries at least to answer the question, and
has not already grown mute with astonishment.

On the other hand, many a one more nobly and delicately endowed by
nature, though he may have gradually become a critical barbarian
in the manner described, could tell of the unexpected as well as
totally unintelligible effect which a successful performance of
_Lohengrin,_ for example, exerted on him: except that perhaps every
warning and interpreting hand was lacking to guide him; so that the
incomprehensibly heterogeneous and altogether incomparable sensation
which then affected him also remained isolated and became extinct, like
a mysterious star after a brief brilliancy. He then divined what the
æsthetic hearer is.


[24]

    In the sea of pleasure's
    Billowing roll,
    In the ether-waves
    Knelling and toll,
    In the world-breath's
    Wavering whole--
    To drown in, go down in--
    Lost in swoon--greatest boon!



23.


He who wishes to test himself rigorously as to how he is related to the
true æsthetic hearer, or whether he belongs rather to the community
of the Socrato-critical man, has only to enquire sincerely concerning
the sentiment with which he accepts the _wonder_ represented on the
stage: whether he feels his historical sense, which insists on strict
psychological causality, insulted by it, whether with benevolent
concession he as it were admits the wonder as a phenomenon intelligible
to childhood, but relinquished by him, or whether he experiences
anything else thereby. For he will thus be enabled to determine how
far he is on the whole capable of understanding _myth,_ that is to
say, the concentrated picture of the world, which, as abbreviature of
phenomena, cannot dispense with wonder. It is probable, however, that
nearly every one, upon close examination, feels so disintegrated by
the critico-historical spirit of our culture, that he can only perhaps
make the former existence of myth credible to himself by learned
means through intermediary abstractions. Without myth, however, every
culture loses its healthy, creative natural power: it is only a horizon
encompassed with myths which rounds off to unity a social movement.
It is only by myth that all the powers of the imagination and of the
Apollonian dream are freed from their random rovings. The mythical
figures have to be the invisibly omnipresent genii, under the care of
which the young soul grows to maturity, by the signs of which the man
gives a meaning to his life and struggles: and the state itself knows
no more powerful unwritten law than the mythical foundation which
vouches for its connection with religion and its growth from mythical
ideas.

Let us now place alongside thereof the abstract man proceeding
independently of myth, the abstract education, the abstract usage,
the abstract right, the abstract state: let us picture to ourselves
the lawless roving of the artistic imagination, not bridled by any
native myth: let us imagine a culture which has no fixed and sacred
primitive seat, but is doomed to exhaust all its possibilities, and
has to nourish itself wretchedly from the other cultures--such is the
Present, as the result of Socratism, which is bent on the destruction
of myth. And now the myth-less man remains eternally hungering among
all the bygones, and digs and grubs for roots, though he have to dig
for them even among the remotest antiquities. The stupendous historical
exigency of the unsatisfied modern culture, the gathering around one of
countless other cultures, the consuming desire for knowledge--what does
all this point to, if not to the loss of myth, the loss of the mythical
home, the mythical source? Let us ask ourselves whether the feverish
and so uncanny stirring of this culture is aught but the eager seizing
and snatching at food of the hungerer--and who would care to contribute
anything more to a culture which cannot be appeased by all it devours,
and in contact with which the most vigorous and wholesome nourishment
is wont to change into "history and criticism"?

We should also have to regard our German character with despair and
sorrow, if it had already become inextricably entangled in, or even
identical with this culture, in a similar manner as we can observe it
to our horror to be the case in civilised France; and that which for
a long time was the great advantage of France and the cause of her
vast preponderance, to wit, this very identity of people and culture,
might compel us at the sight thereof to congratulate ourselves that
this culture of ours, which is so questionable, has hitherto had
nothing in common with the noble kernel of the character of our people.
All our hopes, on the contrary, stretch out longingly towards the
perception that beneath this restlessly palpitating civilised life and
educational convulsion there is concealed a glorious, intrinsically
healthy, primeval power, which, to be sure, stirs vigorously only at
intervals in stupendous moments, and then dreams on again in view of
a future awakening. It is from this abyss that the German Reformation
came forth: in the choral-hymn of which the future melody of German
music first resounded. So deep, courageous, and soul-breathing, so
exuberantly good and tender did this chorale of Luther sound,--as the
first Dionysian-luring call which breaks forth from dense thickets
at the approach of spring. To it responded with emulative echo the
solemnly wanton procession of Dionysian revellers, to whom we are
indebted for German music--and to whom we shall be indebted for _the
re-birth of German myth._

I know that I must now lead the sympathising and attentive friend to
an elevated position of lonesome contemplation, where he will have
but few companions, and I call out encouragingly to him that we must
hold fast to our shining guides, the Greeks. For the rectification
of our æsthetic knowledge we previously borrowed from them the two
divine figures, each of which sways a separate realm of art, and
concerning whose mutual contact and exaltation we have acquired a
notion through Greek tragedy. Through a remarkable disruption of both
these primitive artistic impulses, the ruin of Greek tragedy seemed
to be necessarily brought about: with which process a degeneration
and a transmutation of the Greek national character was strictly in
keeping, summoning us to earnest reflection as to how closely and
necessarily art and the people, myth and custom, tragedy and the state,
have coalesced in their bases. The ruin of tragedy was at the same
time the ruin of myth. Until then the Greeks had been involuntarily
compelled immediately to associate all experiences with their myths,
indeed they had to comprehend them only through this association:
whereby even the most immediate present necessarily appeared to them
_sub specie æterni_ and in a certain sense as timeless. Into this
current of the timeless, however, the state as well as art plunged
in order to find repose from the burden and eagerness of the moment.
And a people--for the rest, also a man--is worth just as much only as
its ability to impress on its experiences the seal of eternity: for
it is thus, as it were, desecularised, and reveals its unconscious
inner conviction of the relativity of time and of the true, that is,
the metaphysical significance of life. The contrary happens when a
people begins to comprehend itself historically and to demolish the
mythical bulwarks around it: with which there is usually connected
a marked secularisation, a breach with the unconscious metaphysics
of its earlier existence, in all ethical consequences. Greek art and
especially Greek tragedy delayed above all the annihilation of myth:
it was necessary to annihilate these also to be able to live detached
from the native soil, unbridled in the wilderness of thought, custom,
and action. Even in such circumstances this metaphysical impulse still
endeavours to create for itself a form of apotheosis (weakened, no
doubt) in the Socratism of science urging to life: but on its lower
stage this same impulse led only to a feverish search, which gradually
merged into a pandemonium of myths and superstitions accumulated from
all quarters: in the midst of which, nevertheless, the Hellene sat with
a yearning heart till he contrived, as Græculus, to mask his fever with
Greek cheerfulness and Greek levity, or to narcotise himself completely
with some gloomy Oriental superstition.

We have approached this condition in the most striking manner since the
reawakening of the Alexandro--Roman antiquity in the fifteenth century,
after a long, not easily describable, interlude. On the heights there
is the same exuberant love of knowledge, the same insatiate happiness
of the discoverer, the same stupendous secularisation, and, together
with these, a homeless roving about, an eager intrusion at foreign
tables, a frivolous deification of the present or a dull senseless
estrangement, all _sub speci sæculi,_ of the present time: which
same symptoms lead one to infer the same defect at the heart of
this culture, the annihilation of myth. It seems hardly possible to
transplant a foreign myth with permanent success, without dreadfully
injuring the tree through this transplantation: which is perhaps
occasionally strong enough and sound enough to eliminate the foreign
element after a terrible struggle; but must ordinarily consume itself
in a languishing and stunted condition or in sickly luxuriance. Our
opinion of the pure and vigorous kernel of the German being is such
that we venture to expect of it, and only of it, this elimination of
forcibly ingrafted foreign elements, and we deem it possible that
the German spirit will reflect anew on itself. Perhaps many a one
will be of opinion that this spirit must begin its struggle with the
elimination of the Romanic element: for which it might recognise an
external preparation and encouragement in the victorious bravery and
bloody glory of the late war, but must seek the inner constraint in the
emulative zeal to be for ever worthy of the sublime protagonists on
this path, of Luther as well as our great artists and poets. But let
him never think he can fight such battles without his household gods,
without his mythical home, without a "restoration" of all German things
I And if the German should look timidly around for a guide to lead
him back to his long-lost home, the ways and paths of which he knows
no longer--let him but listen to the delightfully luring call of the
Dionysian bird, which hovers above him, and would fain point out to him
the way thither.



24.


Among the peculiar artistic effects of musical tragedy we had to
emphasise an Apollonian _illusion,_ through which we are to be saved
from immediate oneness with the Dionysian music, while our musical
excitement is able to discharge itself on an Apollonian domain and
in an interposed visible middle world. It thereby seemed to us that
precisely through this discharge the middle world of theatrical
procedure, the drama generally, became visible and intelligible from
within in a degree unattainable in the other forms of Apollonian art:
so that here, where this art was as it were winged and borne aloft by
the spirit of music, we had to recognise the highest exaltation of its
powers, and consequently in the fraternal union of Apollo and Dionysus
the climax of the Apollonian as well as of the Dionysian artistic aims.

Of course, the Apollonian light-picture did not, precisely with this
inner illumination through music, attain the peculiar effect of the
weaker grades of Apollonian art. What the epos and the animated stone
can do--constrain the contemplating eye to calm delight in the world
of the _individuatio_--could not be realised here, notwithstanding
the greater animation and distinctness. We contemplated the drama
and penetrated with piercing glance into its inner agitated world of
motives--and yet it seemed as if only a symbolic picture passed before
us, the profoundest significance of which we almost believed we had
divined, and which we desired to put aside like a curtain in order to
behold the original behind it. The greatest distinctness of the picture
did not suffice us: for it seemed to reveal as well as veil something;
and while it seemed, with its symbolic revelation, to invite the
rending of the veil for the disclosure of the mysterious background,
this illumined all-conspicuousness itself enthralled the eye and
prevented it from penetrating more deeply He who has not experienced
this,--to have to view, and at the same time to have a longing
beyond the viewing,--will hardly be able to conceive how clearly and
definitely these two processes coexist in the contemplation of tragic
myth and are felt to be conjoined; while the truly æsthetic spectators
will confirm my assertion that among the peculiar effects of tragedy
this conjunction is the most noteworthy. Now let this phenomenon of the
æsthetic spectator be transferred to an analogous process in the tragic
artist, and the genesis of _tragic myth_ will have been understood. It
shares with the Apollonian sphere of art the full delight in appearance
and contemplation, and at the same time it denies this delight and
finds a still higher satisfaction in the annihilation of the visible
world of appearance. The substance of tragic myth is first of all an
epic event involving the glorification of the fighting hero: but whence
originates the essentially enigmatical trait, that the suffering in
the fate of the hero, the most painful victories, the most agonising
contrasts of motives, in short, the exemplification of the wisdom of
Silenus, or, æsthetically expressed, the Ugly and Discordant, is always
represented anew in such countless forms with such predilection, and
precisely in the most youthful and exuberant age of a people, unless
there is really a higher delight experienced in all this?

For the fact that things actually take such a tragic course would
least of all explain the origin of a form of art; provided that art
is not merely an imitation of the reality of nature, but in truth a
metaphysical supplement to the reality of nature, placed alongside
thereof for its conquest. Tragic myth, in so far as it really belongs
to art, also fully participates in this transfiguring metaphysical
purpose of art in general: What does it transfigure, however, when it
presents the phenomenal world in the guise of the suffering hero? Least
of all the "reality" of this phenomenal world, for it says to us: "Look
at this! Look carefully! It is your life! It is the hour-hand of your
clock of existence!"

And myth has displayed this life, in order thereby to transfigure it
to us? If not, how shall we account for the æsthetic pleasure with
which we make even these representations pass before us? I am inquiring
concerning the æsthetic pleasure, and am well aware that many of
these representations may moreover occasionally create even a moral
delectation, say under the form of pity or of a moral triumph. But he
who would derive the effect of the tragic exclusively from these moral
sources, as was usually the case far too long in æsthetics, let him not
think that he has done anything for Art thereby; for Art must above all
insist on purity in her domain. For the explanation of tragic myth the
very first requirement is that the pleasure which characterises it must
be sought in the purely æsthetic sphere, without encroaching on the
domain of pity, fear, or the morally-sublime. How can the ugly and the
discordant, the substance of tragic myth, excite an æsthetic pleasure?

Here it is necessary to raise ourselves with a daring bound into a
metaphysics of Art. I repeat, therefore, my former proposition, that
it is only as an æsthetic phenomenon that existence and the world,
appear justified: and in this sense it is precisely the function of
tragic myth to convince us that even the Ugly and Discordant is an
artistic game which the will, in the eternal fulness of its joy, plays
with itself. But this not easily comprehensible proto-phenomenon of
Dionysian Art becomes, in a direct way, singularly intelligible, and
is immediately apprehended in the wonderful significance of _musical
dissonance:_ just as in general it is music alone, placed in contrast
to the world, which can give us an idea as to what is meant by the
justification of the world as an æsthetic phenomenon. The joy that the
tragic myth excites has the same origin as the joyful sensation of
dissonance in music. The Dionysian, with its primitive joy experienced
in pain itself, is the common source of music and tragic myth.

Is it not possible that by calling to our aid the musical relation of
dissonance, the difficult problem of tragic effect may have meanwhile
been materially facilitated? For we now understand what it means to
wish to view tragedy and at the same time to have a longing beyond the
viewing: a frame of mind, which, as regards the artistically employed
dissonance, we should simply have to characterise by saying that we
desire to hear and at the same time have a longing beyond the hearing.
That striving for the infinite, the pinion-flapping of longing,
accompanying the highest delight in the clearly-perceived reality,
remind one that in both states we have to recognise a Dionysian
phenomenon, which again and again reveals to us anew the playful
up-building and demolishing of the world of individuals as the efflux
of a primitive delight, in like manner as when Heraclitus the Obscure
compares the world-building power to a playing child which places
stones here and there and builds sandhills only to overthrow them again.

Hence, in order to form a true estimate of the Dionysian capacity of
a people, it would seem that we must think not only of their music,
but just as much of their tragic myth, the second witness of this
capacity. Considering this most intimate relationship between music
and myth, we may now in like manner suppose that a degeneration and
depravation of the one involves a deterioration of the other: if it be
true at all that the weakening of the myth is generally expressive of
a debilitation of the Dionysian capacity. Concerning both, however,
a glance at the development of the German genius should not leave
us in any doubt; in the opera just as in the abstract character of
our myth-less existence, in an art sunk to pastime just as in a life
guided by concepts, the inartistic as well as life-consuming nature
of Socratic optimism had revealed itself to us. Yet there have been
indications to console us that nevertheless in some inaccessible abyss
the German spirit still rests and dreams, undestroyed, in glorious
health, profundity, and Dionysian strength, like a knight sunk in
slumber: from which abyss the Dionysian song rises to us to let us
know that this German knight even still dreams his primitive Dionysian
myth in blissfully earnest visions. Let no one believe that the German
spirit has for ever lost its mythical home when it still understands so
obviously the voices of the birds which tell of that home. Some day it
will find itself awake in all the morning freshness of a deep sleep:
then it will slay the dragons, destroy the malignant dwarfs, and waken
Brünnhilde--and Wotan's spear itself will be unable to obstruct its
course!

My friends, ye who believe in Dionysian music, ye know also what
tragedy means to us. There we have tragic myth, born anew from
music,--and in this latest birth ye can hope for everything and forget
what is most afflicting. What is most afflicting to all of us, however,
is--the prolonged degradation in which the German genius has lived
estranged from house and home in the service of malignant dwarfs. Ye
understand my allusion--as ye will also, in conclusion, understand my
hopes.



25.


Music and tragic myth are equally the expression of the Dionysian
capacity of a people, and are inseparable from each other. Both
originate in an ultra Apollonian sphere of art; both transfigure a
region in the delightful accords of which all dissonance, just like
the terrible picture of the world, dies charmingly away; both play
with the sting of displeasure, trusting to their most potent magic;
both justify thereby the existence even of the "worst world." Here
the Dionysian, as compared with the Apollonian, exhibits itself as
the eternal and original artistic force, which in general calls into
existence the entire world of phenomena: in the midst of which a new
transfiguring appearance becomes necessary, in order to keep alive the
animated world of individuation. If we could conceive an incarnation
of dissonance--and what is man but that?--then, to be able to live
this dissonance would require a glorious illusion which would spread
a veil of beauty over its peculiar nature. This is the true function
of Apollo as deity of art: in whose name we comprise all the countless
manifestations of the fair realm of illusion, which each moment render
life in general worth living and make one impatient for the experience
of the next moment.

At the same time, just as much of this basis of all existence--the
Dionysian substratum of the world--is allowed to enter into the
consciousness of human beings, as can be surmounted again by the
Apollonian transfiguring power, so that these two art-impulses are
constrained to develop their powers in strictly mutual proportion,
according to the law of eternal justice. When the Dionysian powers rise
with such vehemence as we experience at present, there can be no doubt
that, veiled in a cloud, Apollo has already descended to us; whose
grandest beautifying influences a coming generation will perhaps behold.

That this effect is necessary, however, each one would most surely
perceive by intuition, if once he found himself carried back--even in
a dream--into an Old-Hellenic existence. In walking under high Ionic
colonnades, looking upwards to a horizon defined by clear and noble
lines, with reflections of his transfigured form by his side in shining
marble, and around him solemnly marching or quietly moving men, with
harmoniously sounding voices and rhythmical pantomime, would he not in
the presence of this perpetual influx of beauty have to raise his hand
to Apollo and exclaim: "Blessed race of Hellenes! How great Dionysus
must be among you, when the Delian god deems such charms necessary
to cure you of your dithyrambic madness!"--To one in this frame of
mind, however, an aged Athenian, looking up to him with the sublime
eye of Æschylus, might answer: "Say also this, thou curious stranger:
what sufferings this people must have undergone, in order to be able
to become thus beautiful! But now follow me to a tragic play, and
sacrifice with me in the temple of both the deities!"




PREFACE


SUPPOSING that Truth is a woman--what then? Is there not ground
for suspecting that all philosophers, in so far as they have been
dogmatists, have failed to understand women--that the terrible
seriousness and clumsy importunity with which they have usually paid
their addresses to Truth, have been unskilled and unseemly methods for
winning a woman? Certainly she has never allowed herself to be won; and
at present every kind of dogma stands with sad and discouraged mien--IF,
indeed, it stands at all! For there are scoffers who maintain that it
has fallen, that all dogma lies on the ground--nay more, that it is at
its last gasp. But to speak seriously, there are good grounds for hoping
that all dogmatizing in philosophy, whatever solemn, whatever conclusive
and decided airs it has assumed, may have been only a noble puerilism
and tyronism; and probably the time is at hand when it will be once
and again understood WHAT has actually sufficed for the basis of such
imposing and absolute philosophical edifices as the dogmatists have
hitherto reared: perhaps some popular superstition of immemorial time
(such as the soul-superstition, which, in the form of subject- and
ego-superstition, has not yet ceased doing mischief): perhaps some
play upon words, a deception on the part of grammar, or an
audacious generalization of very restricted, very personal, very
human--all-too-human facts. The philosophy of the dogmatists, it is to
be hoped, was only a promise for thousands of years afterwards, as was
astrology in still earlier times, in the service of which probably more
labour, gold, acuteness, and patience have been spent than on any
actual science hitherto: we owe to it, and to its "super-terrestrial"
pretensions in Asia and Egypt, the grand style of architecture. It seems
that in order to inscribe themselves upon the heart of humanity with
everlasting claims, all great things have first to wander about the
earth as enormous and awe-inspiring caricatures: dogmatic philosophy has
been a caricature of this kind--for instance, the Vedanta doctrine in
Asia, and Platonism in Europe. Let us not be ungrateful to it, although
it must certainly be confessed that the worst, the most tiresome,
and the most dangerous of errors hitherto has been a dogmatist
error--namely, Plato's invention of Pure Spirit and the Good in Itself.
But now when it has been surmounted, when Europe, rid of this nightmare,
can again draw breath freely and at least enjoy a healthier--sleep,
we, WHOSE DUTY IS WAKEFULNESS ITSELF, are the heirs of all the strength
which the struggle against this error has fostered. It amounted to
the very inversion of truth, and the denial of the PERSPECTIVE--the
fundamental condition--of life, to speak of Spirit and the Good as Plato
spoke of them; indeed one might ask, as a physician: "How did such a
malady attack that finest product of antiquity, Plato? Had the wicked
Socrates really corrupted him? Was Socrates after all a corrupter of
youths, and deserved his hemlock?" But the struggle against Plato,
or--to speak plainer, and for the "people"--the struggle against
the ecclesiastical oppression of millenniums of Christianity (FOR
CHRISTIANITY IS PLATONISM FOR THE "PEOPLE"), produced in Europe
a magnificent tension of soul, such as had not existed anywhere
previously; with such a tensely strained bow one can now aim at the
furthest goals. As a matter of fact, the European feels this tension as
a state of distress, and twice attempts have been made in grand style to
unbend the bow: once by means of Jesuitism, and the second time by means
of democratic enlightenment--which, with the aid of liberty of the press
and newspaper-reading, might, in fact, bring it about that the spirit
would not so easily find itself in "distress"! (The Germans invented
gunpowder--all credit to them! but they again made things square--they
invented printing.) But we, who are neither Jesuits, nor democrats,
nor even sufficiently Germans, we GOOD EUROPEANS, and free, VERY free
spirits--we have it still, all the distress of spirit and all the
tension of its bow! And perhaps also the arrow, the duty, and, who
knows? THE GOAL TO AIM AT....

Sils Maria Upper Engadine, JUNE, 1885.




CHAPTER I. PREJUDICES OF PHILOSOPHERS


1. The Will to Truth, which is to tempt us to many a hazardous
enterprise, the famous Truthfulness of which all philosophers have
hitherto spoken with respect, what questions has this Will to Truth not
laid before us! What strange, perplexing, questionable questions! It is
already a long story; yet it seems as if it were hardly commenced. Is
it any wonder if we at last grow distrustful, lose patience, and turn
impatiently away? That this Sphinx teaches us at last to ask questions
ourselves? WHO is it really that puts questions to us here? WHAT really
is this "Will to Truth" in us? In fact we made a long halt at the
question as to the origin of this Will--until at last we came to an
absolute standstill before a yet more fundamental question. We inquired
about the VALUE of this Will. Granted that we want the truth: WHY NOT
RATHER untruth? And uncertainty? Even ignorance? The problem of the
value of truth presented itself before us--or was it we who presented
ourselves before the problem? Which of us is the Oedipus here? Which
the Sphinx? It would seem to be a rendezvous of questions and notes of
interrogation. And could it be believed that it at last seems to us as
if the problem had never been propounded before, as if we were the first
to discern it, get a sight of it, and RISK RAISING it? For there is risk
in raising it, perhaps there is no greater risk.

2. "HOW COULD anything originate out of its opposite? For example, truth
out of error? or the Will to Truth out of the will to deception? or the
generous deed out of selfishness? or the pure sun-bright vision of the
wise man out of covetousness? Such genesis is impossible; whoever dreams
of it is a fool, nay, worse than a fool; things of the highest
value must have a different origin, an origin of THEIR own--in this
transitory, seductive, illusory, paltry world, in this turmoil of
delusion and cupidity, they cannot have their source. But rather in
the lap of Being, in the intransitory, in the concealed God, in the
'Thing-in-itself--THERE must be their source, and nowhere else!"--This
mode of reasoning discloses the typical prejudice by which
metaphysicians of all times can be recognized, this mode of valuation
is at the back of all their logical procedure; through this "belief" of
theirs, they exert themselves for their "knowledge," for something that
is in the end solemnly christened "the Truth." The fundamental belief of
metaphysicians is THE BELIEF IN ANTITHESES OF VALUES. It never occurred
even to the wariest of them to doubt here on the very threshold (where
doubt, however, was most necessary); though they had made a solemn
vow, "DE OMNIBUS DUBITANDUM." For it may be doubted, firstly, whether
antitheses exist at all; and secondly, whether the popular valuations
and antitheses of value upon which metaphysicians have set their
seal, are not perhaps merely superficial estimates, merely provisional
perspectives, besides being probably made from some corner, perhaps from
below--"frog perspectives," as it were, to borrow an expression current
among painters. In spite of all the value which may belong to the true,
the positive, and the unselfish, it might be possible that a higher
and more fundamental value for life generally should be assigned to
pretence, to the will to delusion, to selfishness, and cupidity. It
might even be possible that WHAT constitutes the value of those good and
respected things, consists precisely in their being insidiously
related, knotted, and crocheted to these evil and apparently opposed
things--perhaps even in being essentially identical with them. Perhaps!
But who wishes to concern himself with such dangerous "Perhapses"!
For that investigation one must await the advent of a new order of
philosophers, such as will have other tastes and inclinations, the
reverse of those hitherto prevalent--philosophers of the dangerous
"Perhaps" in every sense of the term. And to speak in all seriousness, I
see such new philosophers beginning to appear.

3. Having kept a sharp eye on philosophers, and having read between
their lines long enough, I now say to myself that the greater part of
conscious thinking must be counted among the instinctive functions, and
it is so even in the case of philosophical thinking; one has here to
learn anew, as one learned anew about heredity and "innateness." As
little as the act of birth comes into consideration in the whole process
and procedure of heredity, just as little is "being-conscious" OPPOSED
to the instinctive in any decisive sense; the greater part of the
conscious thinking of a philosopher is secretly influenced by his
instincts, and forced into definite channels. And behind all logic and
its seeming sovereignty of movement, there are valuations, or to speak
more plainly, physiological demands, for the maintenance of a definite
mode of life For example, that the certain is worth more than the
uncertain, that illusion is less valuable than "truth" such valuations,
in spite of their regulative importance for US, might notwithstanding be
only superficial valuations, special kinds of _niaiserie_, such as may
be necessary for the maintenance of beings such as ourselves. Supposing,
in effect, that man is not just the "measure of things."

4. The falseness of an opinion is not for us any objection to it: it is
here, perhaps, that our new language sounds most strangely. The
question is, how far an opinion is life-furthering, life-preserving,
species-preserving, perhaps species-rearing, and we are fundamentally
inclined to maintain that the falsest opinions (to which the synthetic
judgments a priori belong), are the most indispensable to us, that
without a recognition of logical fictions, without a comparison of
reality with the purely IMAGINED world of the absolute and immutable,
without a constant counterfeiting of the world by means of numbers,
man could not live--that the renunciation of false opinions would be
a renunciation of life, a negation of life. TO RECOGNISE UNTRUTH AS A
CONDITION OF LIFE; that is certainly to impugn the traditional ideas of
value in a dangerous manner, and a philosophy which ventures to do so,
has thereby alone placed itself beyond good and evil.

5. That which causes philosophers to be regarded half-distrustfully
and half-mockingly, is not the oft-repeated discovery how innocent they
are--how often and easily they make mistakes and lose their way, in
short, how childish and childlike they are,--but that there is not
enough honest dealing with them, whereas they all raise a loud and
virtuous outcry when the problem of truthfulness is even hinted at in
the remotest manner. They all pose as though their real opinions had
been discovered and attained through the self-evolving of a cold, pure,
divinely indifferent dialectic (in contrast to all sorts of mystics,
who, fairer and foolisher, talk of "inspiration"), whereas, in fact, a
prejudiced proposition, idea, or "suggestion," which is generally
their heart's desire abstracted and refined, is defended by them with
arguments sought out after the event. They are all advocates who do not
wish to be regarded as such, generally astute defenders, also, of their
prejudices, which they dub "truths,"--and VERY far from having the
conscience which bravely admits this to itself, very far from having
the good taste of the courage which goes so far as to let this be
understood, perhaps to warn friend or foe, or in cheerful confidence
and self-ridicule. The spectacle of the Tartuffery of old Kant, equally
stiff and decent, with which he entices us into the dialectic
by-ways that lead (more correctly mislead) to his "categorical
imperative"--makes us fastidious ones smile, we who find no small
amusement in spying out the subtle tricks of old moralists and ethical
preachers. Or, still more so, the hocus-pocus in mathematical form, by
means of which Spinoza has, as it were, clad his philosophy in mail and
mask--in fact, the "love of HIS wisdom," to translate the term fairly
and squarely--in order thereby to strike terror at once into the heart
of the assailant who should dare to cast a glance on that invincible
maiden, that Pallas Athene:--how much of personal timidity and
vulnerability does this masquerade of a sickly recluse betray!

6. It has gradually become clear to me what every great philosophy up
till now has consisted of--namely, the confession of its originator, and
a species of involuntary and unconscious auto-biography; and moreover
that the moral (or immoral) purpose in every philosophy has constituted
the true vital germ out of which the entire plant has always grown.
Indeed, to understand how the abstrusest metaphysical assertions of a
philosopher have been arrived at, it is always well (and wise) to first
ask oneself: "What morality do they (or does he) aim at?" Accordingly,
I do not believe that an "impulse to knowledge" is the father of
philosophy; but that another impulse, here as elsewhere, has only made
use of knowledge (and mistaken knowledge!) as an instrument. But whoever
considers the fundamental impulses of man with a view to determining
how far they may have here acted as INSPIRING GENII (or as demons and
cobolds), will find that they have all practiced philosophy at one time
or another, and that each one of them would have been only too glad to
look upon itself as the ultimate end of existence and the legitimate
LORD over all the other impulses. For every impulse is imperious, and as
SUCH, attempts to philosophize. To be sure, in the case of scholars, in
the case of really scientific men, it may be otherwise--"better," if
you will; there there may really be such a thing as an "impulse to
knowledge," some kind of small, independent clock-work, which, when well
wound up, works away industriously to that end, WITHOUT the rest of
the scholarly impulses taking any material part therein. The actual
"interests" of the scholar, therefore, are generally in quite another
direction--in the family, perhaps, or in money-making, or in politics;
it is, in fact, almost indifferent at what point of research his little
machine is placed, and whether the hopeful young worker becomes a
good philologist, a mushroom specialist, or a chemist; he is not
CHARACTERISED by becoming this or that. In the philosopher, on the
contrary, there is absolutely nothing impersonal; and above all,
his morality furnishes a decided and decisive testimony as to WHO HE
IS,--that is to say, in what order the deepest impulses of his nature
stand to each other.

7. How malicious philosophers can be! I know of nothing more stinging
than the joke Epicurus took the liberty of making on Plato and the
Platonists; he called them Dionysiokolakes. In its original sense,
and on the face of it, the word signifies "Flatterers of
Dionysius"--consequently, tyrants' accessories and lick-spittles;
besides this, however, it is as much as to say, "They are all ACTORS,
there is nothing genuine about them" (for Dionysiokolax was a popular
name for an actor). And the latter is really the malignant reproach that
Epicurus cast upon Plato: he was annoyed by the grandiose manner, the
mise en scene style of which Plato and his scholars were masters--of
which Epicurus was not a master! He, the old school-teacher of Samos,
who sat concealed in his little garden at Athens, and wrote three
hundred books, perhaps out of rage and ambitious envy of Plato, who
knows! Greece took a hundred years to find out who the garden-god
Epicurus really was. Did she ever find out?

8. There is a point in every philosophy at which the "conviction" of
the philosopher appears on the scene; or, to put it in the words of an
ancient mystery:

Adventavit asinus, Pulcher et fortissimus.

9. You desire to LIVE "according to Nature"? Oh, you noble Stoics, what
fraud of words! Imagine to yourselves a being like Nature, boundlessly
extravagant, boundlessly indifferent, without purpose or consideration,
without pity or justice, at once fruitful and barren and uncertain:
imagine to yourselves INDIFFERENCE as a power--how COULD you live
in accordance with such indifference? To live--is not that just
endeavouring to be otherwise than this Nature? Is not living valuing,
preferring, being unjust, being limited, endeavouring to be different?
And granted that your imperative, "living according to Nature," means
actually the same as "living according to life"--how could you do
DIFFERENTLY? Why should you make a principle out of what you yourselves
are, and must be? In reality, however, it is quite otherwise with you:
while you pretend to read with rapture the canon of your law in Nature,
you want something quite the contrary, you extraordinary stage-players
and self-deluders! In your pride you wish to dictate your morals and
ideals to Nature, to Nature herself, and to incorporate them therein;
you insist that it shall be Nature "according to the Stoa," and would
like everything to be made after your own image, as a vast, eternal
glorification and generalism of Stoicism! With all your love for truth,
you have forced yourselves so long, so persistently, and with such
hypnotic rigidity to see Nature FALSELY, that is to say, Stoically,
that you are no longer able to see it otherwise--and to crown all, some
unfathomable superciliousness gives you the Bedlamite hope that
BECAUSE you are able to tyrannize over yourselves--Stoicism is
self-tyranny--Nature will also allow herself to be tyrannized over: is
not the Stoic a PART of Nature?... But this is an old and everlasting
story: what happened in old times with the Stoics still happens today,
as soon as ever a philosophy begins to believe in itself. It always
creates the world in its own image; it cannot do otherwise; philosophy
is this tyrannical impulse itself, the most spiritual Will to Power, the
will to "creation of the world," the will to the causa prima.

10. The eagerness and subtlety, I should even say craftiness, with
which the problem of "the real and the apparent world" is dealt with at
present throughout Europe, furnishes food for thought and attention; and
he who hears only a "Will to Truth" in the background, and nothing else,
cannot certainly boast of the sharpest ears. In rare and isolated
cases, it may really have happened that such a Will to Truth--a certain
extravagant and adventurous pluck, a metaphysician's ambition of the
forlorn hope--has participated therein: that which in the end always
prefers a handful of "certainty" to a whole cartload of beautiful
possibilities; there may even be puritanical fanatics of conscience,
who prefer to put their last trust in a sure nothing, rather than in an
uncertain something. But that is Nihilism, and the sign of a despairing,
mortally wearied soul, notwithstanding the courageous bearing such a
virtue may display. It seems, however, to be otherwise with stronger
and livelier thinkers who are still eager for life. In that they side
AGAINST appearance, and speak superciliously of "perspective," in
that they rank the credibility of their own bodies about as low as the
credibility of the ocular evidence that "the earth stands still," and
thus, apparently, allowing with complacency their securest possession
to escape (for what does one at present believe in more firmly than
in one's body?),--who knows if they are not really trying to win back
something which was formerly an even securer possession, something
of the old domain of the faith of former times, perhaps the "immortal
soul," perhaps "the old God," in short, ideas by which they could live
better, that is to say, more vigorously and more joyously, than by
"modern ideas"? There is DISTRUST of these modern ideas in this mode
of looking at things, a disbelief in all that has been constructed
yesterday and today; there is perhaps some slight admixture of satiety
and scorn, which can no longer endure the BRIC-A-BRAC of ideas of the
most varied origin, such as so-called Positivism at present throws on
the market; a disgust of the more refined taste at the village-fair
motleyness and patchiness of all these reality-philosophasters, in whom
there is nothing either new or true, except this motleyness. Therein it
seems to me that we should agree with those skeptical anti-realists and
knowledge-microscopists of the present day; their instinct, which repels
them from MODERN reality, is unrefuted... what do their retrograde
by-paths concern us! The main thing about them is NOT that they wish
to go "back," but that they wish to get AWAY therefrom. A little MORE
strength, swing, courage, and artistic power, and they would be OFF--and
not back!

11. It seems to me that there is everywhere an attempt at present to
divert attention from the actual influence which Kant exercised on
German philosophy, and especially to ignore prudently the value which
he set upon himself. Kant was first and foremost proud of his Table of
Categories; with it in his hand he said: "This is the most difficult
thing that could ever be undertaken on behalf of metaphysics." Let us
only understand this "could be"! He was proud of having DISCOVERED a
new faculty in man, the faculty of synthetic judgment a priori. Granting
that he deceived himself in this matter; the development and rapid
flourishing of German philosophy depended nevertheless on his pride, and
on the eager rivalry of the younger generation to discover if possible
something--at all events "new faculties"--of which to be still
prouder!--But let us reflect for a moment--it is high time to do so.
"How are synthetic judgments a priori POSSIBLE?" Kant asks himself--and
what is really his answer? "BY MEANS OF A MEANS (faculty)"--but
unfortunately not in five words, but so circumstantially, imposingly,
and with such display of German profundity and verbal flourishes, that
one altogether loses sight of the comical niaiserie allemande involved
in such an answer. People were beside themselves with delight over this
new faculty, and the jubilation reached its climax when Kant further
discovered a moral faculty in man--for at that time Germans were still
moral, not yet dabbling in the "Politics of hard fact." Then came
the honeymoon of German philosophy. All the young theologians of the
Tubingen institution went immediately into the groves--all seeking for
"faculties." And what did they not find--in that innocent, rich, and
still youthful period of the German spirit, to which Romanticism, the
malicious fairy, piped and sang, when one could not yet distinguish
between "finding" and "inventing"! Above all a faculty for the
"transcendental"; Schelling christened it, intellectual intuition,
and thereby gratified the most earnest longings of the naturally
pious-inclined Germans. One can do no greater wrong to the whole of
this exuberant and eccentric movement (which was really youthfulness,
notwithstanding that it disguised itself so boldly, in hoary and senile
conceptions), than to take it seriously, or even treat it with moral
indignation. Enough, however--the world grew older, and the dream
vanished. A time came when people rubbed their foreheads, and they still
rub them today. People had been dreaming, and first and foremost--old
Kant. "By means of a means (faculty)"--he had said, or at least meant to
say. But, is that--an answer? An explanation? Or is it not rather merely
a repetition of the question? How does opium induce sleep? "By means of
a means (faculty)," namely the virtus dormitiva, replies the doctor in
Moliere,

    Quia est in eo virtus dormitiva,
    Cujus est natura sensus assoupire.

But such replies belong to the realm of comedy, and it is high time
to replace the Kantian question, "How are synthetic judgments a PRIORI
possible?" by another question, "Why is belief in such judgments
necessary?"--in effect, it is high time that we should understand
that such judgments must be believed to be true, for the sake of the
preservation of creatures like ourselves; though they still might
naturally be false judgments! Or, more plainly spoken, and roughly and
readily--synthetic judgments a priori should not "be possible" at all;
we have no right to them; in our mouths they are nothing but false
judgments. Only, of course, the belief in their truth is necessary, as
plausible belief and ocular evidence belonging to the perspective view
of life. And finally, to call to mind the enormous influence which
"German philosophy"--I hope you understand its right to inverted commas
(goosefeet)?--has exercised throughout the whole of Europe, there is
no doubt that a certain VIRTUS DORMITIVA had a share in it; thanks to
German philosophy, it was a delight to the noble idlers, the virtuous,
the mystics, the artiste, the three-fourths Christians, and the
political obscurantists of all nations, to find an antidote to the still
overwhelming sensualism which overflowed from the last century into
this, in short--"sensus assoupire."...

12. As regards materialistic atomism, it is one of the best-refuted
theories that have been advanced, and in Europe there is now perhaps
no one in the learned world so unscholarly as to attach serious
signification to it, except for convenient everyday use (as an
abbreviation of the means of expression)--thanks chiefly to the Pole
Boscovich: he and the Pole Copernicus have hitherto been the greatest
and most successful opponents of ocular evidence. For while Copernicus
has persuaded us to believe, contrary to all the senses, that the earth
does NOT stand fast, Boscovich has taught us to abjure the belief in the
last thing that "stood fast" of the earth--the belief in "substance," in
"matter," in the earth-residuum, and particle-atom: it is the greatest
triumph over the senses that has hitherto been gained on earth. One
must, however, go still further, and also declare war, relentless war
to the knife, against the "atomistic requirements" which still lead a
dangerous after-life in places where no one suspects them, like the more
celebrated "metaphysical requirements": one must also above all give
the finishing stroke to that other and more portentous atomism which
Christianity has taught best and longest, the SOUL-ATOMISM. Let it be
permitted to designate by this expression the belief which regards the
soul as something indestructible, eternal, indivisible, as a monad,
as an atomon: this belief ought to be expelled from science! Between
ourselves, it is not at all necessary to get rid of "the soul" thereby,
and thus renounce one of the oldest and most venerated hypotheses--as
happens frequently to the clumsiness of naturalists, who can hardly
touch on the soul without immediately losing it. But the way is open
for new acceptations and refinements of the soul-hypothesis; and such
conceptions as "mortal soul," and "soul of subjective multiplicity,"
and "soul as social structure of the instincts and passions," want
henceforth to have legitimate rights in science. In that the NEW
psychologist is about to put an end to the superstitions which have
hitherto flourished with almost tropical luxuriance around the idea of
the soul, he is really, as it were, thrusting himself into a new desert
and a new distrust--it is possible that the older psychologists had a
merrier and more comfortable time of it; eventually, however, he finds
that precisely thereby he is also condemned to INVENT--and, who knows?
perhaps to DISCOVER the new.

13. Psychologists should bethink themselves before putting down the
instinct of self-preservation as the cardinal instinct of an organic
being. A living thing seeks above all to DISCHARGE its strength--life
itself is WILL TO POWER; self-preservation is only one of the indirect
and most frequent RESULTS thereof. In short, here, as everywhere else,
let us beware of SUPERFLUOUS teleological principles!--one of which
is the instinct of self-preservation (we owe it to Spinoza's
inconsistency). It is thus, in effect, that method ordains, which must
be essentially economy of principles.

14. It is perhaps just dawning on five or six minds that natural
philosophy is only a world-exposition and world-arrangement (according
to us, if I may say so!) and NOT a world-explanation; but in so far as
it is based on belief in the senses, it is regarded as more, and for a
long time to come must be regarded as more--namely, as an explanation.
It has eyes and fingers of its own, it has ocular evidence and
palpableness of its own: this operates fascinatingly, persuasively, and
CONVINCINGLY upon an age with fundamentally plebeian tastes--in fact, it
follows instinctively the canon of truth of eternal popular sensualism.
What is clear, what is "explained"? Only that which can be seen and
felt--one must pursue every problem thus far. Obversely, however, the
charm of the Platonic mode of thought, which was an ARISTOCRATIC mode,
consisted precisely in RESISTANCE to obvious sense-evidence--perhaps
among men who enjoyed even stronger and more fastidious senses than our
contemporaries, but who knew how to find a higher triumph in remaining
masters of them: and this by means of pale, cold, grey conceptional
networks which they threw over the motley whirl of the senses--the
mob of the senses, as Plato said. In this overcoming of the world, and
interpreting of the world in the manner of Plato, there was an ENJOYMENT
different from that which the physicists of today offer us--and likewise
the Darwinists and anti-teleologists among the physiological workers,
with their principle of the "smallest possible effort," and the greatest
possible blunder. "Where there is nothing more to see or to grasp, there
is also nothing more for men to do"--that is certainly an imperative
different from the Platonic one, but it may notwithstanding be the right
imperative for a hardy, laborious race of machinists and bridge-builders
of the future, who have nothing but ROUGH work to perform.

15. To study physiology with a clear conscience, one must insist on
the fact that the sense-organs are not phenomena in the sense of the
idealistic philosophy; as such they certainly could not be causes!
Sensualism, therefore, at least as regulative hypothesis, if not as
heuristic principle. What? And others say even that the external world
is the work of our organs? But then our body, as a part of this external
world, would be the work of our organs! But then our organs themselves
would be the work of our organs! It seems to me that this is a
complete REDUCTIO AD ABSURDUM, if the conception CAUSA SUI is something
fundamentally absurd. Consequently, the external world is NOT the work
of our organs--?

16. There are still harmless self-observers who believe that there are
"immediate certainties"; for instance, "I think," or as the superstition
of Schopenhauer puts it, "I will"; as though cognition here got hold
of its object purely and simply as "the thing in itself," without any
falsification taking place either on the part of the subject or the
object. I would repeat it, however, a hundred times, that "immediate
certainty," as well as "absolute knowledge" and the "thing in itself,"
involve a CONTRADICTIO IN ADJECTO; we really ought to free ourselves
from the misleading significance of words! The people on their part may
think that cognition is knowing all about things, but the philosopher
must say to himself: "When I analyze the process that is expressed in
the sentence, 'I think,' I find a whole series of daring assertions, the
argumentative proof of which would be difficult, perhaps impossible:
for instance, that it is _I_ who think, that there must necessarily be
something that thinks, that thinking is an activity and operation on the
part of a being who is thought of as a cause, that there is an 'ego,'
and finally, that it is already determined what is to be designated by
thinking--that I KNOW what thinking is. For if I had not already decided
within myself what it is, by what standard could I determine whether
that which is just happening is not perhaps 'willing' or 'feeling'? In
short, the assertion 'I think,' assumes that I COMPARE my state at the
present moment with other states of myself which I know, in order to
determine what it is; on account of this retrospective connection with
further 'knowledge,' it has, at any rate, no immediate certainty for
me."--In place of the "immediate certainty" in which the people may
believe in the special case, the philosopher thus finds a series of
metaphysical questions presented to him, veritable conscience questions
of the intellect, to wit: "Whence did I get the notion of 'thinking'?
Why do I believe in cause and effect? What gives me the right to speak
of an 'ego,' and even of an 'ego' as cause, and finally of an 'ego'
as cause of thought?" He who ventures to answer these metaphysical
questions at once by an appeal to a sort of INTUITIVE perception, like
the person who says, "I think, and know that this, at least, is
true, actual, and certain"--will encounter a smile and two notes of
interrogation in a philosopher nowadays. "Sir," the philosopher will
perhaps give him to understand, "it is improbable that you are not
mistaken, but why should it be the truth?"

17. With regard to the superstitions of logicians, I shall never tire
of emphasizing a small, terse fact, which is unwillingly recognized by
these credulous minds--namely, that a thought comes when "it" wishes,
and not when "I" wish; so that it is a PERVERSION of the facts of the
case to say that the subject "I" is the condition of the predicate
"think." ONE thinks; but that this "one" is precisely the famous old
"ego," is, to put it mildly, only a supposition, an assertion, and
assuredly not an "immediate certainty." After all, one has even gone too
far with this "one thinks"--even the "one" contains an INTERPRETATION of
the process, and does not belong to the process itself. One infers here
according to the usual grammatical formula--"To think is an activity;
every activity requires an agency that is active; consequently"... It
was pretty much on the same lines that the older atomism sought, besides
the operating "power," the material particle wherein it resides and out
of which it operates--the atom. More rigorous minds, however, learnt at
last to get along without this "earth-residuum," and perhaps some day we
shall accustom ourselves, even from the logician's point of view, to
get along without the little "one" (to which the worthy old "ego" has
refined itself).

18. It is certainly not the least charm of a theory that it is
refutable; it is precisely thereby that it attracts the more subtle
minds. It seems that the hundred-times-refuted theory of the "free will"
owes its persistence to this charm alone; some one is always appearing
who feels himself strong enough to refute it.

19. Philosophers are accustomed to speak of the will as though it were
the best-known thing in the world; indeed, Schopenhauer has given us
to understand that the will alone is really known to us, absolutely and
completely known, without deduction or addition. But it again and
again seems to me that in this case Schopenhauer also only did what
philosophers are in the habit of doing--he seems to have adopted a
POPULAR PREJUDICE and exaggerated it. Willing seems to me to be above
all something COMPLICATED, something that is a unity only in name--and
it is precisely in a name that popular prejudice lurks, which has got
the mastery over the inadequate precautions of philosophers in all ages.
So let us for once be more cautious, let us be "unphilosophical": let
us say that in all willing there is firstly a plurality of sensations,
namely, the sensation of the condition "AWAY FROM WHICH we go," the
sensation of the condition "TOWARDS WHICH we go," the sensation of this
"FROM" and "TOWARDS" itself, and then besides, an accompanying muscular
sensation, which, even without our putting in motion "arms and legs,"
commences its action by force of habit, directly we "will" anything.
Therefore, just as sensations (and indeed many kinds of sensations) are
to be recognized as ingredients of the will, so, in the second place,
thinking is also to be recognized; in every act of the will there is
a ruling thought;--and let us not imagine it possible to sever this
thought from the "willing," as if the will would then remain over!
In the third place, the will is not only a complex of sensation and
thinking, but it is above all an EMOTION, and in fact the emotion of the
command. That which is termed "freedom of the will" is essentially the
emotion of supremacy in respect to him who must obey: "I am free, 'he'
must obey"--this consciousness is inherent in every will; and equally
so the straining of the attention, the straight look which fixes itself
exclusively on one thing, the unconditional judgment that "this and
nothing else is necessary now," the inward certainty that obedience
will be rendered--and whatever else pertains to the position of the
commander. A man who WILLS commands something within himself which
renders obedience, or which he believes renders obedience. But now let
us notice what is the strangest thing about the will,--this affair so
extremely complex, for which the people have only one name. Inasmuch as
in the given circumstances we are at the same time the commanding AND
the obeying parties, and as the obeying party we know the sensations of
constraint, impulsion, pressure, resistance, and motion, which usually
commence immediately after the act of will; inasmuch as, on the other
hand, we are accustomed to disregard this duality, and to deceive
ourselves about it by means of the synthetic term "I": a whole series
of erroneous conclusions, and consequently of false judgments about the
will itself, has become attached to the act of willing--to such a degree
that he who wills believes firmly that willing SUFFICES for action.
Since in the majority of cases there has only been exercise of will
when the effect of the command--consequently obedience, and therefore
action--was to be EXPECTED, the APPEARANCE has translated itself into
the sentiment, as if there were a NECESSITY OF EFFECT; in a word, he who
wills believes with a fair amount of certainty that will and action are
somehow one; he ascribes the success, the carrying out of the willing,
to the will itself, and thereby enjoys an increase of the sensation
of power which accompanies all success. "Freedom of Will"--that is the
expression for the complex state of delight of the person exercising
volition, who commands and at the same time identifies himself with
the executor of the order--who, as such, enjoys also the triumph over
obstacles, but thinks within himself that it was really his own will
that overcame them. In this way the person exercising volition adds the
feelings of delight of his successful executive instruments, the useful
"underwills" or under-souls--indeed, our body is but a social structure
composed of many souls--to his feelings of delight as commander. L'EFFET
C'EST MOI. what happens here is what happens in every well-constructed
and happy commonwealth, namely, that the governing class identifies
itself with the successes of the commonwealth. In all willing it is
absolutely a question of commanding and obeying, on the basis, as
already said, of a social structure composed of many "souls", on which
account a philosopher should claim the right to include willing-as-such
within the sphere of morals--regarded as the doctrine of the relations
of supremacy under which the phenomenon of "life" manifests itself.

20. That the separate philosophical ideas are not anything optional or
autonomously evolving, but grow up in connection and relationship with
each other, that, however suddenly and arbitrarily they seem to appear
in the history of thought, they nevertheless belong just as much to
a system as the collective members of the fauna of a Continent--is
betrayed in the end by the circumstance: how unfailingly the most
diverse philosophers always fill in again a definite fundamental scheme
of POSSIBLE philosophies. Under an invisible spell, they always revolve
once more in the same orbit, however independent of each other they
may feel themselves with their critical or systematic wills, something
within them leads them, something impels them in definite order the
one after the other--to wit, the innate methodology and relationship
of their ideas. Their thinking is, in fact, far less a discovery than a
re-recognizing, a remembering, a return and a home-coming to a far-off,
ancient common-household of the soul, out of which those ideas formerly
grew: philosophizing is so far a kind of atavism of the highest order.
The wonderful family resemblance of all Indian, Greek, and German
philosophizing is easily enough explained. In fact, where there is
affinity of language, owing to the common philosophy of grammar--I mean
owing to the unconscious domination and guidance of similar grammatical
functions--it cannot but be that everything is prepared at the outset
for a similar development and succession of philosophical systems,
just as the way seems barred against certain other possibilities of
world-interpretation. It is highly probable that philosophers within the
domain of the Ural-Altaic languages (where the conception of the subject
is least developed) look otherwise "into the world," and will be
found on paths of thought different from those of the Indo-Germans and
Mussulmans, the spell of certain grammatical functions is ultimately
also the spell of PHYSIOLOGICAL valuations and racial conditions.--So
much by way of rejecting Locke's superficiality with regard to the
origin of ideas.

21. The CAUSA SUI is the best self-contradiction that has yet been
conceived, it is a sort of logical violation and unnaturalness; but the
extravagant pride of man has managed to entangle itself profoundly and
frightfully with this very folly. The desire for "freedom of will"
in the superlative, metaphysical sense, such as still holds sway,
unfortunately, in the minds of the half-educated, the desire to bear
the entire and ultimate responsibility for one's actions oneself, and
to absolve God, the world, ancestors, chance, and society therefrom,
involves nothing less than to be precisely this CAUSA SUI, and, with
more than Munchausen daring, to pull oneself up into existence by the
hair, out of the slough of nothingness. If any one should find out in
this manner the crass stupidity of the celebrated conception of "free
will" and put it out of his head altogether, I beg of him to carry
his "enlightenment" a step further, and also put out of his head the
contrary of this monstrous conception of "free will": I mean "non-free
will," which is tantamount to a misuse of cause and effect. One
should not wrongly MATERIALISE "cause" and "effect," as the natural
philosophers do (and whoever like them naturalize in thinking at
present), according to the prevailing mechanical doltishness which makes
the cause press and push until it "effects" its end; one should use
"cause" and "effect" only as pure CONCEPTIONS, that is to say, as
conventional fictions for the purpose of designation and mutual
understanding,--NOT for explanation. In "being-in-itself" there is
nothing of "casual-connection," of "necessity," or of "psychological
non-freedom"; there the effect does NOT follow the cause, there "law"
does not obtain. It is WE alone who have devised cause, sequence,
reciprocity, relativity, constraint, number, law, freedom, motive,
and purpose; and when we interpret and intermix this symbol-world,
as "being-in-itself," with things, we act once more as we have always
acted--MYTHOLOGICALLY. The "non-free will" is mythology; in real life
it is only a question of STRONG and WEAK wills.--It is almost always
a symptom of what is lacking in himself, when a thinker, in every
"causal-connection" and "psychological necessity," manifests something
of compulsion, indigence, obsequiousness, oppression, and non-freedom;
it is suspicious to have such feelings--the person betrays himself. And
in general, if I have observed correctly, the "non-freedom of the will"
is regarded as a problem from two entirely opposite standpoints, but
always in a profoundly PERSONAL manner: some will not give up their
"responsibility," their belief in THEMSELVES, the personal right to
THEIR merits, at any price (the vain races belong to this class); others
on the contrary, do not wish to be answerable for anything, or blamed
for anything, and owing to an inward self-contempt, seek to GET OUT OF
THE BUSINESS, no matter how. The latter, when they write books, are
in the habit at present of taking the side of criminals; a sort of
socialistic sympathy is their favourite disguise. And as a matter of
fact, the fatalism of the weak-willed embellishes itself surprisingly
when it can pose as "la religion de la souffrance humaine"; that is ITS
"good taste."

22. Let me be pardoned, as an old philologist who cannot desist from
the mischief of putting his finger on bad modes of interpretation, but
"Nature's conformity to law," of which you physicists talk so proudly,
as though--why, it exists only owing to your interpretation and bad
"philology." It is no matter of fact, no "text," but rather just a
naively humanitarian adjustment and perversion of meaning, with which
you make abundant concessions to the democratic instincts of the modern
soul! "Everywhere equality before the law--Nature is not different in
that respect, nor better than we": a fine instance of secret motive,
in which the vulgar antagonism to everything privileged and
autocratic--likewise a second and more refined atheism--is once more
disguised. "Ni dieu, ni maitre"--that, also, is what you want; and
therefore "Cheers for natural law!"--is it not so? But, as has been
said, that is interpretation, not text; and somebody might come along,
who, with opposite intentions and modes of interpretation, could read
out of the same "Nature," and with regard to the same phenomena, just
the tyrannically inconsiderate and relentless enforcement of the claims
of power--an interpreter who should so place the unexceptionalness and
unconditionalness of all "Will to Power" before your eyes, that almost
every word, and the word "tyranny" itself, would eventually seem
unsuitable, or like a weakening and softening metaphor--as being too
human; and who should, nevertheless, end by asserting the same about
this world as you do, namely, that it has a "necessary" and "calculable"
course, NOT, however, because laws obtain in it, but because they are
absolutely LACKING, and every power effects its ultimate consequences
every moment. Granted that this also is only interpretation--and you
will be eager enough to make this objection?--well, so much the better.

23. All psychology hitherto has run aground on moral prejudices and
timidities, it has not dared to launch out into the depths. In so far
as it is allowable to recognize in that which has hitherto been written,
evidence of that which has hitherto been kept silent, it seems as if
nobody had yet harboured the notion of psychology as the Morphology
and DEVELOPMENT-DOCTRINE OF THE WILL TO POWER, as I conceive of it.
The power of moral prejudices has penetrated deeply into the most
intellectual world, the world apparently most indifferent and
unprejudiced, and has obviously operated in an injurious, obstructive,
blinding, and distorting manner. A proper physio-psychology has to
contend with unconscious antagonism in the heart of the investigator,
it has "the heart" against it even a doctrine of the reciprocal
conditionalness of the "good" and the "bad" impulses, causes (as
refined immorality) distress and aversion in a still strong and manly
conscience--still more so, a doctrine of the derivation of all good
impulses from bad ones. If, however, a person should regard even
the emotions of hatred, envy, covetousness, and imperiousness
as life-conditioning emotions, as factors which must be present,
fundamentally and essentially, in the general economy of life (which
must, therefore, be further developed if life is to be further
developed), he will suffer from such a view of things as from
sea-sickness. And yet this hypothesis is far from being the strangest
and most painful in this immense and almost new domain of dangerous
knowledge, and there are in fact a hundred good reasons why every one
should keep away from it who CAN do so! On the other hand, if one has
once drifted hither with one's bark, well! very good! now let us set our
teeth firmly! let us open our eyes and keep our hand fast on the helm!
We sail away right OVER morality, we crush out, we destroy perhaps the
remains of our own morality by daring to make our voyage thither--but
what do WE matter. Never yet did a PROFOUNDER world of insight reveal
itself to daring travelers and adventurers, and the psychologist who
thus "makes a sacrifice"--it is not the sacrifizio dell' intelletto,
on the contrary!--will at least be entitled to demand in return that
psychology shall once more be recognized as the queen of the sciences,
for whose service and equipment the other sciences exist. For psychology
is once more the path to the fundamental problems.



CHAPTER II. THE FREE SPIRIT


24. O sancta simplicitiatas! In what strange simplification and
falsification man lives! One can never cease wondering when once one has
got eyes for beholding this marvel! How we have made everything around
us clear and free and easy and simple! how we have been able to give
our senses a passport to everything superficial, our thoughts a godlike
desire for wanton pranks and wrong inferences!--how from the beginning,
we have contrived to retain our ignorance in order to enjoy an almost
inconceivable freedom, thoughtlessness, imprudence, heartiness,
and gaiety--in order to enjoy life! And only on this solidified,
granite-like foundation of ignorance could knowledge rear itself
hitherto, the will to knowledge on the foundation of a far more powerful
will, the will to ignorance, to the uncertain, to the untrue! Not as
its opposite, but--as its refinement! It is to be hoped, indeed, that
LANGUAGE, here as elsewhere, will not get over its awkwardness, and that
it will continue to talk of opposites where there are only degrees
and many refinements of gradation; it is equally to be hoped that the
incarnated Tartuffery of morals, which now belongs to our unconquerable
"flesh and blood," will turn the words round in the mouths of us
discerning ones. Here and there we understand it, and laugh at the way
in which precisely the best knowledge seeks most to retain us in this
SIMPLIFIED, thoroughly artificial, suitably imagined, and suitably
falsified world: at the way in which, whether it will or not, it loves
error, because, as living itself, it loves life!

25. After such a cheerful commencement, a serious word would fain be
heard; it appeals to the most serious minds. Take care, ye philosophers
and friends of knowledge, and beware of martyrdom! Of suffering "for the
truth's sake"! even in your own defense! It spoils all the innocence
and fine neutrality of your conscience; it makes you headstrong against
objections and red rags; it stupefies, animalizes, and brutalizes, when
in the struggle with danger, slander, suspicion, expulsion, and even
worse consequences of enmity, ye have at last to play your last card
as protectors of truth upon earth--as though "the Truth" were such an
innocent and incompetent creature as to require protectors! and you of
all people, ye knights of the sorrowful countenance, Messrs Loafers and
Cobweb-spinners of the spirit! Finally, ye know sufficiently well that
it cannot be of any consequence if YE just carry your point; ye know
that hitherto no philosopher has carried his point, and that there might
be a more laudable truthfulness in every little interrogative mark
which you place after your special words and favourite doctrines (and
occasionally after yourselves) than in all the solemn pantomime and
trumping games before accusers and law-courts! Rather go out of the way!
Flee into concealment! And have your masks and your ruses, that ye may
be mistaken for what you are, or somewhat feared! And pray, don't forget
the garden, the garden with golden trellis-work! And have people around
you who are as a garden--or as music on the waters at eventide, when
already the day becomes a memory. Choose the GOOD solitude, the free,
wanton, lightsome solitude, which also gives you the right still to
remain good in any sense whatsoever! How poisonous, how crafty, how bad,
does every long war make one, which cannot be waged openly by means
of force! How PERSONAL does a long fear make one, a long watching
of enemies, of possible enemies! These pariahs of society, these
long-pursued, badly-persecuted ones--also the compulsory recluses, the
Spinozas or Giordano Brunos--always become in the end, even under the
most intellectual masquerade, and perhaps without being themselves aware
of it, refined vengeance-seekers and poison-Brewers (just lay bare
the foundation of Spinoza's ethics and theology!), not to speak of
the stupidity of moral indignation, which is the unfailing sign in a
philosopher that the sense of philosophical humour has left him. The
martyrdom of the philosopher, his "sacrifice for the sake of truth,"
forces into the light whatever of the agitator and actor lurks in him;
and if one has hitherto contemplated him only with artistic curiosity,
with regard to many a philosopher it is easy to understand the dangerous
desire to see him also in his deterioration (deteriorated into a
"martyr," into a stage-and-tribune-bawler). Only, that it is necessary
with such a desire to be clear WHAT spectacle one will see in any
case--merely a satyric play, merely an epilogue farce, merely the
continued proof that the long, real tragedy IS AT AN END, supposing that
every philosophy has been a long tragedy in its origin.

26. Every select man strives instinctively for a citadel and a privacy,
where he is FREE from the crowd, the many, the majority--where he may
forget "men who are the rule," as their exception;--exclusive only of
the case in which he is pushed straight to such men by a still stronger
instinct, as a discerner in the great and exceptional sense. Whoever, in
intercourse with men, does not occasionally glisten in all the green
and grey colours of distress, owing to disgust, satiety, sympathy,
gloominess, and solitariness, is assuredly not a man of elevated tastes;
supposing, however, that he does not voluntarily take all this burden
and disgust upon himself, that he persistently avoids it, and remains,
as I said, quietly and proudly hidden in his citadel, one thing is then
certain: he was not made, he was not predestined for knowledge. For as
such, he would one day have to say to himself: "The devil take my good
taste! but 'the rule' is more interesting than the exception--than
myself, the exception!" And he would go DOWN, and above all, he would
go "inside." The long and serious study of the AVERAGE man--and
consequently much disguise, self-overcoming, familiarity, and bad
intercourse (all intercourse is bad intercourse except with one's
equals):--that constitutes a necessary part of the life-history of every
philosopher; perhaps the most disagreeable, odious, and disappointing
part. If he is fortunate, however, as a favourite child of knowledge
should be, he will meet with suitable auxiliaries who will shorten and
lighten his task; I mean so-called cynics, those who simply recognize
the animal, the commonplace and "the rule" in themselves, and at the
same time have so much spirituality and ticklishness as to make them
talk of themselves and their like BEFORE WITNESSES--sometimes they
wallow, even in books, as on their own dung-hill. Cynicism is the only
form in which base souls approach what is called honesty; and the
higher man must open his ears to all the coarser or finer cynicism, and
congratulate himself when the clown becomes shameless right before
him, or the scientific satyr speaks out. There are even cases where
enchantment mixes with the disgust--namely, where by a freak of nature,
genius is bound to some such indiscreet billy-goat and ape, as in the
case of the Abbe Galiani, the profoundest, acutest, and perhaps also
filthiest man of his century--he was far profounder than Voltaire, and
consequently also, a good deal more silent. It happens more frequently,
as has been hinted, that a scientific head is placed on an ape's body, a
fine exceptional understanding in a base soul, an occurrence by no means
rare, especially among doctors and moral physiologists. And whenever
anyone speaks without bitterness, or rather quite innocently, of man
as a belly with two requirements, and a head with one; whenever any one
sees, seeks, and WANTS to see only hunger, sexual instinct, and vanity
as the real and only motives of human actions; in short, when any one
speaks "badly"--and not even "ill"--of man, then ought the lover of
knowledge to hearken attentively and diligently; he ought, in general,
to have an open ear wherever there is talk without indignation. For the
indignant man, and he who perpetually tears and lacerates himself with
his own teeth (or, in place of himself, the world, God, or society),
may indeed, morally speaking, stand higher than the laughing and
self-satisfied satyr, but in every other sense he is the more ordinary,
more indifferent, and less instructive case. And no one is such a LIAR
as the indignant man.

27. It is difficult to be understood, especially when one thinks and
lives gangasrotogati [Footnote: Like the river Ganges: presto.] among
those only who think and live otherwise--namely, kurmagati [Footnote:
Like the tortoise: lento.], or at best "froglike," mandeikagati
[Footnote: Like the frog: staccato.] (I do everything to be "difficultly
understood" myself!)--and one should be heartily grateful for the
good will to some refinement of interpretation. As regards "the good
friends," however, who are always too easy-going, and think that as
friends they have a right to ease, one does well at the very first to
grant them a play-ground and romping-place for misunderstanding--one can
thus laugh still; or get rid of them altogether, these good friends--and
laugh then also!

28. What is most difficult to render from one language into another
is the TEMPO of its style, which has its basis in the character of the
race, or to speak more physiologically, in the average TEMPO of the
assimilation of its nutriment. There are honestly meant translations,
which, as involuntary vulgarizations, are almost falsifications of the
original, merely because its lively and merry TEMPO (which overleaps and
obviates all dangers in word and expression) could not also be
rendered. A German is almost incapacitated for PRESTO in his language;
consequently also, as may be reasonably inferred, for many of the most
delightful and daring NUANCES of free, free-spirited thought. And just
as the buffoon and satyr are foreign to him in body and conscience,
so Aristophanes and Petronius are untranslatable for him. Everything
ponderous, viscous, and pompously clumsy, all long-winded and wearying
species of style, are developed in profuse variety among Germans--pardon
me for stating the fact that even Goethe's prose, in its mixture of
stiffness and elegance, is no exception, as a reflection of the "good
old time" to which it belongs, and as an expression of German taste at a
time when there was still a "German taste," which was a rococo-taste
in moribus et artibus. Lessing is an exception, owing to his histrionic
nature, which understood much, and was versed in many things; he who was
not the translator of Bayle to no purpose, who took refuge willingly in
the shadow of Diderot and Voltaire, and still more willingly among the
Roman comedy-writers--Lessing loved also free-spiritism in the TEMPO,
and flight out of Germany. But how could the German language, even
in the prose of Lessing, imitate the TEMPO of Machiavelli, who in his
"Principe" makes us breathe the dry, fine air of Florence, and cannot
help presenting the most serious events in a boisterous allegrissimo,
perhaps not without a malicious artistic sense of the contrast he
ventures to present--long, heavy, difficult, dangerous thoughts, and
a TEMPO of the gallop, and of the best, wantonest humour? Finally, who
would venture on a German translation of Petronius, who, more than any
great musician hitherto, was a master of PRESTO in invention, ideas, and
words? What matter in the end about the swamps of the sick, evil world,
or of the "ancient world," when like him, one has the feet of a wind,
the rush, the breath, the emancipating scorn of a wind, which makes
everything healthy, by making everything RUN! And with regard to
Aristophanes--that transfiguring, complementary genius, for whose
sake one PARDONS all Hellenism for having existed, provided one has
understood in its full profundity ALL that there requires pardon and
transfiguration; there is nothing that has caused me to meditate more on
PLATO'S secrecy and sphinx-like nature, than the happily preserved petit
fait that under the pillow of his death-bed there was found no
"Bible," nor anything Egyptian, Pythagorean, or Platonic--but a book of
Aristophanes. How could even Plato have endured life--a Greek life which
he repudiated--without an Aristophanes!

29. It is the business of the very few to be independent; it is a
privilege of the strong. And whoever attempts it, even with the best
right, but without being OBLIGED to do so, proves that he is probably
not only strong, but also daring beyond measure. He enters into a
labyrinth, he multiplies a thousandfold the dangers which life in itself
already brings with it; not the least of which is that no one can see
how and where he loses his way, becomes isolated, and is torn piecemeal
by some minotaur of conscience. Supposing such a one comes to grief, it
is so far from the comprehension of men that they neither feel it, nor
sympathize with it. And he cannot any longer go back! He cannot even go
back again to the sympathy of men!

30. Our deepest insights must--and should--appear as follies, and under
certain circumstances as crimes, when they come unauthorizedly to
the ears of those who are not disposed and predestined for them. The
exoteric and the esoteric, as they were formerly distinguished by
philosophers--among the Indians, as among the Greeks, Persians, and
Mussulmans, in short, wherever people believed in gradations of rank and
NOT in equality and equal rights--are not so much in contradistinction
to one another in respect to the exoteric class, standing without, and
viewing, estimating, measuring, and judging from the outside, and not
from the inside; the more essential distinction is that the class in
question views things from below upwards--while the esoteric class views
things FROM ABOVE DOWNWARDS. There are heights of the soul from which
tragedy itself no longer appears to operate tragically; and if all the
woe in the world were taken together, who would dare to decide whether
the sight of it would NECESSARILY seduce and constrain to sympathy, and
thus to a doubling of the woe?... That which serves the higher class of
men for nourishment or refreshment, must be almost poison to an entirely
different and lower order of human beings. The virtues of the common
man would perhaps mean vice and weakness in a philosopher; it might be
possible for a highly developed man, supposing him to degenerate and go
to ruin, to acquire qualities thereby alone, for the sake of which he
would have to be honoured as a saint in the lower world into which he
had sunk. There are books which have an inverse value for the soul and
the health according as the inferior soul and the lower vitality, or the
higher and more powerful, make use of them. In the former case they are
dangerous, disturbing, unsettling books, in the latter case they are
herald-calls which summon the bravest to THEIR bravery. Books for the
general reader are always ill-smelling books, the odour of paltry people
clings to them. Where the populace eat and drink, and even where they
reverence, it is accustomed to stink. One should not go into churches if
one wishes to breathe PURE air.

31. In our youthful years we still venerate and despise without the art
of NUANCE, which is the best gain of life, and we have rightly to do
hard penance for having fallen upon men and things with Yea and Nay.
Everything is so arranged that the worst of all tastes, THE TASTE FOR
THE UNCONDITIONAL, is cruelly befooled and abused, until a man learns
to introduce a little art into his sentiments, and prefers to try
conclusions with the artificial, as do the real artists of life. The
angry and reverent spirit peculiar to youth appears to allow itself no
peace, until it has suitably falsified men and things, to be able
to vent its passion upon them: youth in itself even, is something
falsifying and deceptive. Later on, when the young soul, tortured by
continual disillusions, finally turns suspiciously against itself--still
ardent and savage even in its suspicion and remorse of conscience: how
it upbraids itself, how impatiently it tears itself, how it revenges
itself for its long self-blinding, as though it had been a voluntary
blindness! In this transition one punishes oneself by distrust of one's
sentiments; one tortures one's enthusiasm with doubt, one feels even the
good conscience to be a danger, as if it were the self-concealment and
lassitude of a more refined uprightness; and above all, one espouses
upon principle the cause AGAINST "youth."--A decade later, and one
comprehends that all this was also still--youth!

32. Throughout the longest period of human history--one calls it the
prehistoric period--the value or non-value of an action was inferred
from its CONSEQUENCES; the action in itself was not taken into
consideration, any more than its origin; but pretty much as in China at
present, where the distinction or disgrace of a child redounds to
its parents, the retro-operating power of success or failure was what
induced men to think well or ill of an action. Let us call this period
the PRE-MORAL period of mankind; the imperative, "Know thyself!" was
then still unknown.--In the last ten thousand years, on the other hand,
on certain large portions of the earth, one has gradually got so far,
that one no longer lets the consequences of an action, but its origin,
decide with regard to its worth: a great achievement as a whole, an
important refinement of vision and of criterion, the unconscious effect
of the supremacy of aristocratic values and of the belief in "origin,"
the mark of a period which may be designated in the narrower sense as
the MORAL one: the first attempt at self-knowledge is thereby
made. Instead of the consequences, the origin--what an inversion
of perspective! And assuredly an inversion effected only after long
struggle and wavering! To be sure, an ominous new superstition, a
peculiar narrowness of interpretation, attained supremacy precisely
thereby: the origin of an action was interpreted in the most definite
sense possible, as origin out of an INTENTION; people were agreed in the
belief that the value of an action lay in the value of its intention.
The intention as the sole origin and antecedent history of an action:
under the influence of this prejudice moral praise and blame have been
bestowed, and men have judged and even philosophized almost up to the
present day.--Is it not possible, however, that the necessity may now
have arisen of again making up our minds with regard to the reversing
and fundamental shifting of values, owing to a new self-consciousness
and acuteness in man--is it not possible that we may be standing on
the threshold of a period which to begin with, would be distinguished
negatively as ULTRA-MORAL: nowadays when, at least among us immoralists,
the suspicion arises that the decisive value of an action lies precisely
in that which is NOT INTENTIONAL, and that all its intentionalness, all
that is seen, sensible, or "sensed" in it, belongs to its surface or
skin--which, like every skin, betrays something, but CONCEALS still
more? In short, we believe that the intention is only a sign or symptom,
which first requires an explanation--a sign, moreover, which has too
many interpretations, and consequently hardly any meaning in itself
alone: that morality, in the sense in which it has been understood
hitherto, as intention-morality, has been a prejudice, perhaps a
prematureness or preliminariness, probably something of the same rank
as astrology and alchemy, but in any case something which must be
surmounted. The surmounting of morality, in a certain sense even the
self-mounting of morality--let that be the name for the long-secret
labour which has been reserved for the most refined, the most upright,
and also the most wicked consciences of today, as the living touchstones
of the soul.

33. It cannot be helped: the sentiment of surrender, of sacrifice for
one's neighbour, and all self-renunciation-morality, must be mercilessly
called to account, and brought to judgment; just as the aesthetics
of "disinterested contemplation," under which the emasculation of art
nowadays seeks insidiously enough to create itself a good conscience.
There is far too much witchery and sugar in the sentiments "for others"
and "NOT for myself," for one not needing to be doubly distrustful here,
and for one asking promptly: "Are they not perhaps--DECEPTIONS?"--That
they PLEASE--him who has them, and him who enjoys their fruit, and also
the mere spectator--that is still no argument in their FAVOUR, but just
calls for caution. Let us therefore be cautious!

34. At whatever standpoint of philosophy one may place oneself nowadays,
seen from every position, the ERRONEOUSNESS of the world in which we
think we live is the surest and most certain thing our eyes can light
upon: we find proof after proof thereof, which would fain allure us into
surmises concerning a deceptive principle in the "nature of things."
He, however, who makes thinking itself, and consequently "the spirit,"
responsible for the falseness of the world--an honourable exit, which
every conscious or unconscious advocatus dei avails himself of--he
who regards this world, including space, time, form, and movement, as
falsely DEDUCED, would have at least good reason in the end to become
distrustful also of all thinking; has it not hitherto been playing upon
us the worst of scurvy tricks? and what guarantee would it give that
it would not continue to do what it has always been doing? In all
seriousness, the innocence of thinkers has something touching and
respect-inspiring in it, which even nowadays permits them to wait upon
consciousness with the request that it will give them HONEST answers:
for example, whether it be "real" or not, and why it keeps the outer
world so resolutely at a distance, and other questions of the same
description. The belief in "immediate certainties" is a MORAL NAIVETE
which does honour to us philosophers; but--we have now to cease being
"MERELY moral" men! Apart from morality, such belief is a folly which
does little honour to us! If in middle-class life an ever-ready distrust
is regarded as the sign of a "bad character," and consequently as an
imprudence, here among us, beyond the middle-class world and its Yeas
and Nays, what should prevent our being imprudent and saying: the
philosopher has at length a RIGHT to "bad character," as the being who
has hitherto been most befooled on earth--he is now under OBLIGATION
to distrustfulness, to the wickedest squinting out of every abyss of
suspicion.--Forgive me the joke of this gloomy grimace and turn of
expression; for I myself have long ago learned to think and estimate
differently with regard to deceiving and being deceived, and I keep at
least a couple of pokes in the ribs ready for the blind rage with which
philosophers struggle against being deceived. Why NOT? It is nothing
more than a moral prejudice that truth is worth more than semblance; it
is, in fact, the worst proved supposition in the world. So much must be
conceded: there could have been no life at all except upon the basis
of perspective estimates and semblances; and if, with the virtuous
enthusiasm and stupidity of many philosophers, one wished to do away
altogether with the "seeming world"--well, granted that YOU could do
that,--at least nothing of your "truth" would thereby remain! Indeed,
what is it that forces us in general to the supposition that there is an
essential opposition of "true" and "false"? Is it not enough to suppose
degrees of seemingness, and as it were lighter and darker shades and
tones of semblance--different valeurs, as the painters say? Why might
not the world WHICH CONCERNS US--be a fiction? And to any one who
suggested: "But to a fiction belongs an originator?"--might it not be
bluntly replied: WHY? May not this "belong" also belong to the fiction?
Is it not at length permitted to be a little ironical towards the
subject, just as towards the predicate and object? Might not the
philosopher elevate himself above faith in grammar? All respect
to governesses, but is it not time that philosophy should renounce
governess-faith?

35. O Voltaire! O humanity! O idiocy! There is something ticklish in
"the truth," and in the SEARCH for the truth; and if man goes about it
too humanely--"il ne cherche le vrai que pour faire le bien"--I wager he
finds nothing!

36. Supposing that nothing else is "given" as real but our world of
desires and passions, that we cannot sink or rise to any other "reality"
but just that of our impulses--for thinking is only a relation of these
impulses to one another:--are we not permitted to make the attempt and
to ask the question whether this which is "given" does not SUFFICE, by
means of our counterparts, for the understanding even of the so-called
mechanical (or "material") world? I do not mean as an illusion, a
"semblance," a "representation" (in the Berkeleyan and Schopenhauerian
sense), but as possessing the same degree of reality as our emotions
themselves--as a more primitive form of the world of emotions, in
which everything still lies locked in a mighty unity, which afterwards
branches off and develops itself in organic processes (naturally also,
refines and debilitates)--as a kind of instinctive life in which all
organic functions, including self-regulation, assimilation, nutrition,
secretion, and change of matter, are still synthetically united with
one another--as a PRIMARY FORM of life?--In the end, it is not only
permitted to make this attempt, it is commanded by the conscience of
LOGICAL METHOD. Not to assume several kinds of causality, so long as
the attempt to get along with a single one has not been pushed to its
furthest extent (to absurdity, if I may be allowed to say so): that is
a morality of method which one may not repudiate nowadays--it follows
"from its definition," as mathematicians say. The question is ultimately
whether we really recognize the will as OPERATING, whether we believe in
the causality of the will; if we do so--and fundamentally our belief IN
THIS is just our belief in causality itself--we MUST make the attempt
to posit hypothetically the causality of the will as the only causality.
"Will" can naturally only operate on "will"--and not on "matter" (not
on "nerves," for instance): in short, the hypothesis must be
hazarded, whether will does not operate on will wherever "effects"
are recognized--and whether all mechanical action, inasmuch as a power
operates therein, is not just the power of will, the effect of will.
Granted, finally, that we succeeded in explaining our entire instinctive
life as the development and ramification of one fundamental form of
will--namely, the Will to Power, as my thesis puts it; granted that all
organic functions could be traced back to this Will to Power, and that
the solution of the problem of generation and nutrition--it is one
problem--could also be found therein: one would thus have acquired the
right to define ALL active force unequivocally as WILL TO POWER. The
world seen from within, the world defined and designated according to
its "intelligible character"--it would simply be "Will to Power," and
nothing else.

37. "What? Does not that mean in popular language: God is disproved, but
not the devil?"--On the contrary! On the contrary, my friends! And who
the devil also compels you to speak popularly!

38. As happened finally in all the enlightenment of modern times with
the French Revolution (that terrible farce, quite superfluous when
judged close at hand, into which, however, the noble and visionary
spectators of all Europe have interpreted from a distance their own
indignation and enthusiasm so long and passionately, UNTIL THE TEXT HAS
DISAPPEARED UNDER THE INTERPRETATION), so a noble posterity might once
more misunderstand the whole of the past, and perhaps only thereby make
ITS aspect endurable.--Or rather, has not this already happened? Have
not we ourselves been--that "noble posterity"? And, in so far as we now
comprehend this, is it not--thereby already past?

39. Nobody will very readily regard a doctrine as true merely because
it makes people happy or virtuous--excepting, perhaps, the amiable
"Idealists," who are enthusiastic about the good, true, and beautiful,
and let all kinds of motley, coarse, and good-natured desirabilities
swim about promiscuously in their pond. Happiness and virtue are no
arguments. It is willingly forgotten, however, even on the part of
thoughtful minds, that to make unhappy and to make bad are just as
little counter-arguments. A thing could be TRUE, although it were in
the highest degree injurious and dangerous; indeed, the fundamental
constitution of existence might be such that one succumbed by a full
knowledge of it--so that the strength of a mind might be measured by
the amount of "truth" it could endure--or to speak more plainly, by the
extent to which it REQUIRED truth attenuated, veiled, sweetened, damped,
and falsified. But there is no doubt that for the discovery of certain
PORTIONS of truth the wicked and unfortunate are more favourably
situated and have a greater likelihood of success; not to speak of the
wicked who are happy--a species about whom moralists are silent. Perhaps
severity and craft are more favourable conditions for the development of
strong, independent spirits and philosophers than the gentle, refined,
yielding good-nature, and habit of taking things easily, which are
prized, and rightly prized in a learned man. Presupposing always,
to begin with, that the term "philosopher" be not confined to the
philosopher who writes books, or even introduces HIS philosophy into
books!--Stendhal furnishes a last feature of the portrait of the
free-spirited philosopher, which for the sake of German taste I will
not omit to underline--for it is OPPOSED to German taste. "Pour etre
bon philosophe," says this last great psychologist, "il faut etre sec,
clair, sans illusion. Un banquier, qui a fait fortune, a une partie du
caractere requis pour faire des decouvertes en philosophie, c'est-a-dire
pour voir clair dans ce qui est."

40. Everything that is profound loves the mask: the profoundest things
have a hatred even of figure and likeness. Should not the CONTRARY only
be the right disguise for the shame of a God to go about in? A question
worth asking!--it would be strange if some mystic has not already
ventured on the same kind of thing. There are proceedings of such a
delicate nature that it is well to overwhelm them with coarseness
and make them unrecognizable; there are actions of love and of an
extravagant magnanimity after which nothing can be wiser than to take
a stick and thrash the witness soundly: one thereby obscures his
recollection. Many a one is able to obscure and abuse his own memory, in
order at least to have vengeance on this sole party in the secret:
shame is inventive. They are not the worst things of which one is
most ashamed: there is not only deceit behind a mask--there is so much
goodness in craft. I could imagine that a man with something costly and
fragile to conceal, would roll through life clumsily and rotundly like
an old, green, heavily-hooped wine-cask: the refinement of his shame
requiring it to be so. A man who has depths in his shame meets his
destiny and his delicate decisions upon paths which few ever reach,
and with regard to the existence of which his nearest and most intimate
friends may be ignorant; his mortal danger conceals itself from their
eyes, and equally so his regained security. Such a hidden nature,
which instinctively employs speech for silence and concealment, and is
inexhaustible in evasion of communication, DESIRES and insists that a
mask of himself shall occupy his place in the hearts and heads of his
friends; and supposing he does not desire it, his eyes will some day be
opened to the fact that there is nevertheless a mask of him there--and
that it is well to be so. Every profound spirit needs a mask; nay, more,
around every profound spirit there continually grows a mask, owing to
the constantly false, that is to say, SUPERFICIAL interpretation
of every word he utters, every step he takes, every sign of life he
manifests.

41. One must subject oneself to one's own tests that one is destined
for independence and command, and do so at the right time. One must not
avoid one's tests, although they constitute perhaps the most dangerous
game one can play, and are in the end tests made only before ourselves
and before no other judge. Not to cleave to any person, be it even the
dearest--every person is a prison and also a recess. Not to cleave to
a fatherland, be it even the most suffering and necessitous--it is even
less difficult to detach one's heart from a victorious fatherland. Not
to cleave to a sympathy, be it even for higher men, into whose peculiar
torture and helplessness chance has given us an insight. Not to cleave
to a science, though it tempt one with the most valuable discoveries,
apparently specially reserved for us. Not to cleave to one's own
liberation, to the voluptuous distance and remoteness of the bird, which
always flies further aloft in order always to see more under it--the
danger of the flier. Not to cleave to our own virtues, nor become as
a whole a victim to any of our specialties, to our "hospitality" for
instance, which is the danger of dangers for highly developed
and wealthy souls, who deal prodigally, almost indifferently with
themselves, and push the virtue of liberality so far that it becomes
a vice. One must know how TO CONSERVE ONESELF--the best test of
independence.

42. A new order of philosophers is appearing; I shall venture to baptize
them by a name not without danger. As far as I understand them, as far
as they allow themselves to be understood--for it is their nature to
WISH to remain something of a puzzle--these philosophers of the
future might rightly, perhaps also wrongly, claim to be designated as
"tempters." This name itself is after all only an attempt, or, if it be
preferred, a temptation.

43. Will they be new friends of "truth," these coming philosophers? Very
probably, for all philosophers hitherto have loved their truths. But
assuredly they will not be dogmatists. It must be contrary to their
pride, and also contrary to their taste, that their truth should still
be truth for every one--that which has hitherto been the secret wish
and ultimate purpose of all dogmatic efforts. "My opinion is MY opinion:
another person has not easily a right to it"--such a philosopher of the
future will say, perhaps. One must renounce the bad taste of wishing to
agree with many people. "Good" is no longer good when one's neighbour
takes it into his mouth. And how could there be a "common good"! The
expression contradicts itself; that which can be common is always of
small value. In the end things must be as they are and have always
been--the great things remain for the great, the abysses for the
profound, the delicacies and thrills for the refined, and, to sum up
shortly, everything rare for the rare.


44. Need I say expressly after all this that they will be free, VERY
free spirits, these philosophers of the future--as certainly also they
will not be merely free spirits, but something more, higher, greater,
and fundamentally different, which does not wish to be misunderstood and
mistaken? But while I say this, I feel under OBLIGATION almost as much
to them as to ourselves (we free spirits who are their heralds and
forerunners), to sweep away from ourselves altogether a stupid old
prejudice and misunderstanding, which, like a fog, has too long made the
conception of "free spirit" obscure. In every country of Europe, and the
same in America, there is at present something which makes an abuse of
this name a very narrow, prepossessed, enchained class of spirits,
who desire almost the opposite of what our intentions and instincts
prompt--not to mention that in respect to the NEW philosophers who are
appearing, they must still more be closed windows and bolted doors.
Briefly and regrettably, they belong to the LEVELLERS, these wrongly
named "free spirits"--as glib-tongued and scribe-fingered slaves of
the democratic taste and its "modern ideas" all of them men without
solitude, without personal solitude, blunt honest fellows to whom
neither courage nor honourable conduct ought to be denied, only, they
are not free, and are ludicrously superficial, especially in their
innate partiality for seeing the cause of almost ALL human misery and
failure in the old forms in which society has hitherto existed--a notion
which happily inverts the truth entirely! What they would fain attain
with all their strength, is the universal, green-meadow happiness of the
herd, together with security, safety, comfort, and alleviation of life
for every one, their two most frequently chanted songs and doctrines
are called "Equality of Rights" and "Sympathy with All Sufferers"--and
suffering itself is looked upon by them as something which must be
DONE AWAY WITH. We opposite ones, however, who have opened our eye and
conscience to the question how and where the plant "man" has hitherto
grown most vigorously, believe that this has always taken place under
the opposite conditions, that for this end the dangerousness of his
situation had to be increased enormously, his inventive faculty and
dissembling power (his "spirit") had to develop into subtlety and daring
under long oppression and compulsion, and his Will to Life had to be
increased to the unconditioned Will to Power--we believe that severity,
violence, slavery, danger in the street and in the heart, secrecy,
stoicism, tempter's art and devilry of every kind,--that everything
wicked, terrible, tyrannical, predatory, and serpentine in man, serves
as well for the elevation of the human species as its opposite--we do
not even say enough when we only say THIS MUCH, and in any case we
find ourselves here, both with our speech and our silence, at the OTHER
extreme of all modern ideology and gregarious desirability, as their
antipodes perhaps? What wonder that we "free spirits" are not exactly
the most communicative spirits? that we do not wish to betray in every
respect WHAT a spirit can free itself from, and WHERE perhaps it will
then be driven? And as to the import of the dangerous formula, "Beyond
Good and Evil," with which we at least avoid confusion, we ARE something
else than "libres-penseurs," "liben pensatori" "free-thinkers,"
and whatever these honest advocates of "modern ideas" like to call
themselves. Having been at home, or at least guests, in many realms of
the spirit, having escaped again and again from the gloomy, agreeable
nooks in which preferences and prejudices, youth, origin, the accident
of men and books, or even the weariness of travel seemed to confine us,
full of malice against the seductions of dependency which he concealed
in honours, money, positions, or exaltation of the senses, grateful even
for distress and the vicissitudes of illness, because they always free
us from some rule, and its "prejudice," grateful to the God, devil,
sheep, and worm in us, inquisitive to a fault, investigators to the
point of cruelty, with unhesitating fingers for the intangible, with
teeth and stomachs for the most indigestible, ready for any business
that requires sagacity and acute senses, ready for every adventure,
owing to an excess of "free will", with anterior and posterior souls,
into the ultimate intentions of which it is difficult to pry, with
foregrounds and backgrounds to the end of which no foot may run, hidden
ones under the mantles of light, appropriators, although we resemble
heirs and spendthrifts, arrangers and collectors from morning till
night, misers of our wealth and our full-crammed drawers, economical
in learning and forgetting, inventive in scheming, sometimes proud of
tables of categories, sometimes pedants, sometimes night-owls of
work even in full day, yea, if necessary, even scarecrows--and it is
necessary nowadays, that is to say, inasmuch as we are the born, sworn,
jealous friends of SOLITUDE, of our own profoundest midnight and midday
solitude--such kind of men are we, we free spirits! And perhaps ye are
also something of the same kind, ye coming ones? ye NEW philosophers?



CHAPTER III. THE RELIGIOUS MOOD


45. The human soul and its limits, the range of man's inner experiences
hitherto attained, the heights, depths, and distances of these
experiences, the entire history of the soul UP TO THE PRESENT TIME,
and its still unexhausted possibilities: this is the preordained
hunting-domain for a born psychologist and lover of a "big hunt". But
how often must he say despairingly to himself: "A single individual!
alas, only a single individual! and this great forest, this virgin
forest!" So he would like to have some hundreds of hunting assistants,
and fine trained hounds, that he could send into the history of the
human soul, to drive HIS game together. In vain: again and again he
experiences, profoundly and bitterly, how difficult it is to find
assistants and dogs for all the things that directly excite his
curiosity. The evil of sending scholars into new and dangerous
hunting-domains, where courage, sagacity, and subtlety in every sense
are required, is that they are no longer serviceable just when the "BIG
hunt," and also the great danger commences,--it is precisely then that
they lose their keen eye and nose. In order, for instance, to divine and
determine what sort of history the problem of KNOWLEDGE AND CONSCIENCE
has hitherto had in the souls of homines religiosi, a person would
perhaps himself have to possess as profound, as bruised, as immense an
experience as the intellectual conscience of Pascal; and then he would
still require that wide-spread heaven of clear, wicked spirituality,
which, from above, would be able to oversee, arrange, and effectively
formulize this mass of dangerous and painful experiences.--But who
could do me this service! And who would have time to wait for such
servants!--they evidently appear too rarely, they are so improbable at
all times! Eventually one must do everything ONESELF in order to know
something; which means that one has MUCH to do!--But a curiosity like
mine is once for all the most agreeable of vices--pardon me! I mean to
say that the love of truth has its reward in heaven, and already upon
earth.

46. Faith, such as early Christianity desired, and not infrequently
achieved in the midst of a skeptical and southernly free-spirited world,
which had centuries of struggle between philosophical schools behind
it and in it, counting besides the education in tolerance which
the Imperium Romanum gave--this faith is NOT that sincere, austere
slave-faith by which perhaps a Luther or a Cromwell, or some other
northern barbarian of the spirit remained attached to his God and
Christianity, it is much rather the faith of Pascal, which resembles in
a terrible manner a continuous suicide of reason--a tough, long-lived,
worm-like reason, which is not to be slain at once and with a single
blow. The Christian faith from the beginning, is sacrifice the sacrifice
of all freedom, all pride, all self-confidence of spirit, it is at
the same time subjection, self-derision, and self-mutilation. There is
cruelty and religious Phoenicianism in this faith, which is adapted to a
tender, many-sided, and very fastidious conscience, it takes for granted
that the subjection of the spirit is indescribably PAINFUL, that all the
past and all the habits of such a spirit resist the absurdissimum, in
the form of which "faith" comes to it. Modern men, with their obtuseness
as regards all Christian nomenclature, have no longer the sense for the
terribly superlative conception which was implied to an antique taste by
the paradox of the formula, "God on the Cross". Hitherto there had never
and nowhere been such boldness in inversion, nor anything at once so
dreadful, questioning, and questionable as this formula: it promised a
transvaluation of all ancient values--It was the Orient, the PROFOUND
Orient, it was the Oriental slave who thus took revenge on Rome and its
noble, light-minded toleration, on the Roman "Catholicism" of non-faith,
and it was always not the faith, but the freedom from the faith, the
half-stoical and smiling indifference to the seriousness of the faith,
which made the slaves indignant at their masters and revolt against
them. "Enlightenment" causes revolt, for the slave desires the
unconditioned, he understands nothing but the tyrannous, even in morals,
he loves as he hates, without NUANCE, to the very depths, to the point
of pain, to the point of sickness--his many HIDDEN sufferings make
him revolt against the noble taste which seems to DENY suffering. The
skepticism with regard to suffering, fundamentally only an attitude of
aristocratic morality, was not the least of the causes, also, of the
last great slave-insurrection which began with the French Revolution.

47. Wherever the religious neurosis has appeared on the earth so far,
we find it connected with three dangerous prescriptions as to regimen:
solitude, fasting, and sexual abstinence--but without its being possible
to determine with certainty which is cause and which is effect, or IF
any relation at all of cause and effect exists there. This latter doubt
is justified by the fact that one of the most regular symptoms among
savage as well as among civilized peoples is the most sudden and
excessive sensuality, which then with equal suddenness transforms into
penitential paroxysms, world-renunciation, and will-renunciation, both
symptoms perhaps explainable as disguised epilepsy? But nowhere is it
MORE obligatory to put aside explanations around no other type has there
grown such a mass of absurdity and superstition, no other type seems to
have been more interesting to men and even to philosophers--perhaps it
is time to become just a little indifferent here, to learn caution, or,
better still, to look AWAY, TO GO AWAY--Yet in the background of the
most recent philosophy, that of Schopenhauer, we find almost as the
problem in itself, this terrible note of interrogation of the religious
crisis and awakening. How is the negation of will POSSIBLE? how is the
saint possible?--that seems to have been the very question with which
Schopenhauer made a start and became a philosopher. And thus it was a
genuine Schopenhauerian consequence, that his most convinced adherent
(perhaps also his last, as far as Germany is concerned), namely, Richard
Wagner, should bring his own life-work to an end just here, and should
finally put that terrible and eternal type upon the stage as Kundry,
type vecu, and as it loved and lived, at the very time that the
mad-doctors in almost all European countries had an opportunity to study
the type close at hand, wherever the religious neurosis--or as I call
it, "the religious mood"--made its latest epidemical outbreak and
display as the "Salvation Army"--If it be a question, however, as to
what has been so extremely interesting to men of all sorts in all ages,
and even to philosophers, in the whole phenomenon of the saint, it
is undoubtedly the appearance of the miraculous therein--namely, the
immediate SUCCESSION OF OPPOSITES, of states of the soul regarded as
morally antithetical: it was believed here to be self-evident that
a "bad man" was all at once turned into a "saint," a good man. The
hitherto existing psychology was wrecked at this point, is it not
possible it may have happened principally because psychology had placed
itself under the dominion of morals, because it BELIEVED in oppositions
of moral values, and saw, read, and INTERPRETED these oppositions
into the text and facts of the case? What? "Miracle" only an error of
interpretation? A lack of philology?

48. It seems that the Latin races are far more deeply attached to their
Catholicism than we Northerners are to Christianity generally, and
that consequently unbelief in Catholic countries means something quite
different from what it does among Protestants--namely, a sort of revolt
against the spirit of the race, while with us it is rather a return to
the spirit (or non-spirit) of the race.

We Northerners undoubtedly derive our origin from barbarous races, even
as regards our talents for religion--we have POOR talents for it. One
may make an exception in the case of the Celts, who have theretofore
furnished also the best soil for Christian infection in the North: the
Christian ideal blossomed forth in France as much as ever the pale sun
of the north would allow it. How strangely pious for our taste are still
these later French skeptics, whenever there is any Celtic blood in their
origin! How Catholic, how un-German does Auguste Comte's Sociology
seem to us, with the Roman logic of its instincts! How Jesuitical, that
amiable and shrewd cicerone of Port Royal, Sainte-Beuve, in spite of all
his hostility to Jesuits! And even Ernest Renan: how inaccessible to
us Northerners does the language of such a Renan appear, in whom
every instant the merest touch of religious thrill throws his refined
voluptuous and comfortably couching soul off its balance! Let us repeat
after him these fine sentences--and what wickedness and haughtiness is
immediately aroused by way of answer in our probably less beautiful but
harder souls, that is to say, in our more German souls!--"DISONS DONC
HARDIMENT QUE LA RELIGION EST UN PRODUIT DE L'HOMME NORMAL, QUE L'HOMME
EST LE PLUS DANS LE VRAI QUANT IL EST LE PLUS RELIGIEUX ET LE PLUS
ASSURE D'UNE DESTINEE INFINIE.... C'EST QUAND IL EST BON QU'IL VEUT QUE
LA VIRTU CORRESPONDE A UN ORDER ETERNAL, C'EST QUAND IL CONTEMPLE LES
CHOSES D'UNE MANIERE DESINTERESSEE QU'IL TROUVE LA MORT REVOLTANTE ET
ABSURDE. COMMENT NE PAS SUPPOSER QUE C'EST DANS CES MOMENTS-LA, QUE
L'HOMME VOIT LE MIEUX?"... These sentences are so extremely ANTIPODAL
to my ears and habits of thought, that in my first impulse of rage
on finding them, I wrote on the margin, "LA NIAISERIE RELIGIEUSE PAR
EXCELLENCE!"--until in my later rage I even took a fancy to them, these
sentences with their truth absolutely inverted! It is so nice and such a
distinction to have one's own antipodes!

49. That which is so astonishing in the religious life of the ancient
Greeks is the irrestrainable stream of GRATITUDE which it pours
forth--it is a very superior kind of man who takes SUCH an attitude
towards nature and life.--Later on, when the populace got the upper hand
in Greece, FEAR became rampant also in religion; and Christianity was
preparing itself.

50. The passion for God: there are churlish, honest-hearted, and
importunate kinds of it, like that of Luther--the whole of Protestantism
lacks the southern DELICATEZZA. There is an Oriental exaltation of the
mind in it, like that of an undeservedly favoured or elevated slave, as
in the case of St. Augustine, for instance, who lacks in an offensive
manner, all nobility in bearing and desires. There is a feminine
tenderness and sensuality in it, which modestly and unconsciously longs
for a UNIO MYSTICA ET PHYSICA, as in the case of Madame de Guyon. In
many cases it appears, curiously enough, as the disguise of a girl's
or youth's puberty; here and there even as the hysteria of an old maid,
also as her last ambition. The Church has frequently canonized the woman
in such a case.

51. The mightiest men have hitherto always bowed reverently before
the saint, as the enigma of self-subjugation and utter voluntary
privation--why did they thus bow? They divined in him--and as it were
behind the questionableness of his frail and wretched appearance--the
superior force which wished to test itself by such a subjugation; the
strength of will, in which they recognized their own strength and
love of power, and knew how to honour it: they honoured something
in themselves when they honoured the saint. In addition to this, the
contemplation of the saint suggested to them a suspicion: such an
enormity of self-negation and anti-naturalness will not have been
coveted for nothing--they have said, inquiringly. There is perhaps a
reason for it, some very great danger, about which the ascetic might
wish to be more accurately informed through his secret interlocutors and
visitors? In a word, the mighty ones of the world learned to have a new
fear before him, they divined a new power, a strange, still unconquered
enemy:--it was the "Will to Power" which obliged them to halt before the
saint. They had to question him.

52. In the Jewish "Old Testament," the book of divine justice, there are
men, things, and sayings on such an immense scale, that Greek and Indian
literature has nothing to compare with it. One stands with fear and
reverence before those stupendous remains of what man was formerly, and
one has sad thoughts about old Asia and its little out-pushed peninsula
Europe, which would like, by all means, to figure before Asia as the
"Progress of Mankind." To be sure, he who is himself only a slender,
tame house-animal, and knows only the wants of a house-animal (like
our cultured people of today, including the Christians of "cultured"
Christianity), need neither be amazed nor even sad amid those ruins--the
taste for the Old Testament is a touchstone with respect to "great" and
"small": perhaps he will find that the New Testament, the book of grace,
still appeals more to his heart (there is much of the odour of the
genuine, tender, stupid beadsman and petty soul in it). To have bound
up this New Testament (a kind of ROCOCO of taste in every respect) along
with the Old Testament into one book, as the "Bible," as "The Book in
Itself," is perhaps the greatest audacity and "sin against the Spirit"
which literary Europe has upon its conscience.

53. Why Atheism nowadays? "The father" in God is thoroughly refuted;
equally so "the judge," "the rewarder." Also his "free will": he does
not hear--and even if he did, he would not know how to help. The worst
is that he seems incapable of communicating himself clearly; is he
uncertain?--This is what I have made out (by questioning and listening
at a variety of conversations) to be the cause of the decline of
European theism; it appears to me that though the religious instinct is
in vigorous growth,--it rejects the theistic satisfaction with profound
distrust.

54. What does all modern philosophy mainly do? Since Descartes--and
indeed more in defiance of him than on the basis of his procedure--an
ATTENTAT has been made on the part of all philosophers on the old
conception of the soul, under the guise of a criticism of the subject
and predicate conception--that is to say, an ATTENTAT on the
fundamental presupposition of Christian doctrine. Modern philosophy,
as epistemological skepticism, is secretly or openly ANTI-CHRISTIAN,
although (for keener ears, be it said) by no means anti-religious.
Formerly, in effect, one believed in "the soul" as one believed in
grammar and the grammatical subject: one said, "I" is the condition,
"think" is the predicate and is conditioned--to think is an activity for
which one MUST suppose a subject as cause. The attempt was then made,
with marvelous tenacity and subtlety, to see if one could not get out
of this net,--to see if the opposite was not perhaps true: "think" the
condition, and "I" the conditioned; "I," therefore, only a synthesis
which has been MADE by thinking itself. KANT really wished to prove
that, starting from the subject, the subject could not be proved--nor
the object either: the possibility of an APPARENT EXISTENCE of the
subject, and therefore of "the soul," may not always have been strange
to him,--the thought which once had an immense power on earth as the
Vedanta philosophy.

55. There is a great ladder of religious cruelty, with many rounds; but
three of these are the most important. Once on a time men sacrificed
human beings to their God, and perhaps just those they loved the
best--to this category belong the firstling sacrifices of all primitive
religions, and also the sacrifice of the Emperor Tiberius in the
Mithra-Grotto on the Island of Capri, that most terrible of all Roman
anachronisms. Then, during the moral epoch of mankind, they sacrificed
to their God the strongest instincts they possessed, their "nature";
THIS festal joy shines in the cruel glances of ascetics and
"anti-natural" fanatics. Finally, what still remained to be sacrificed?
Was it not necessary in the end for men to sacrifice everything
comforting, holy, healing, all hope, all faith in hidden harmonies, in
future blessedness and justice? Was it not necessary to sacrifice God
himself, and out of cruelty to themselves to worship stone, stupidity,
gravity, fate, nothingness? To sacrifice God for nothingness--this
paradoxical mystery of the ultimate cruelty has been reserved for the
rising generation; we all know something thereof already.

56. Whoever, like myself, prompted by some enigmatical desire, has long
endeavoured to go to the bottom of the question of pessimism and free it
from the half-Christian, half-German narrowness and stupidity in which
it has finally presented itself to this century, namely, in the form of
Schopenhauer's philosophy; whoever, with an Asiatic and super-Asiatic
eye, has actually looked inside, and into the most world-renouncing of
all possible modes of thought--beyond good and evil, and no longer
like Buddha and Schopenhauer, under the dominion and delusion of
morality,--whoever has done this, has perhaps just thereby, without
really desiring it, opened his eyes to behold the opposite ideal: the
ideal of the most world-approving, exuberant, and vivacious man, who has
not only learnt to compromise and arrange with that which was and
is, but wishes to have it again AS IT WAS AND IS, for all eternity,
insatiably calling out da capo, not only to himself, but to the whole
piece and play; and not only the play, but actually to him who requires
the play--and makes it necessary; because he always requires
himself anew--and makes himself necessary.--What? And this would not
be--circulus vitiosus deus?

57. The distance, and as it were the space around man, grows with the
strength of his intellectual vision and insight: his world becomes
profounder; new stars, new enigmas, and notions are ever coming into
view. Perhaps everything on which the intellectual eye has exercised
its acuteness and profundity has just been an occasion for its exercise,
something of a game, something for children and childish minds. Perhaps
the most solemn conceptions that have caused the most fighting and
suffering, the conceptions "God" and "sin," will one day seem to us of
no more importance than a child's plaything or a child's pain seems to
an old man;--and perhaps another plaything and another pain will then
be necessary once more for "the old man"--always childish enough, an
eternal child!

58. Has it been observed to what extent outward idleness, or
semi-idleness, is necessary to a real religious life (alike for its
favourite microscopic labour of self-examination, and for its soft
placidity called "prayer," the state of perpetual readiness for the
"coming of God"), I mean the idleness with a good conscience, the
idleness of olden times and of blood, to which the aristocratic
sentiment that work is DISHONOURING--that it vulgarizes body and
soul--is not quite unfamiliar? And that consequently the modern, noisy,
time-engrossing, conceited, foolishly proud laboriousness educates
and prepares for "unbelief" more than anything else? Among these, for
instance, who are at present living apart from religion in Germany, I
find "free-thinkers" of diversified species and origin, but above all
a majority of those in whom laboriousness from generation to generation
has dissolved the religious instincts; so that they no longer know what
purpose religions serve, and only note their existence in the world
with a kind of dull astonishment. They feel themselves already fully
occupied, these good people, be it by their business or by their
pleasures, not to mention the "Fatherland," and the newspapers, and
their "family duties"; it seems that they have no time whatever left
for religion; and above all, it is not obvious to them whether it is a
question of a new business or a new pleasure--for it is impossible, they
say to themselves, that people should go to church merely to spoil
their tempers. They are by no means enemies of religious customs;
should certain circumstances, State affairs perhaps, require their
participation in such customs, they do what is required, as so many
things are done--with a patient and unassuming seriousness, and without
much curiosity or discomfort;--they live too much apart and outside
to feel even the necessity for a FOR or AGAINST in such matters. Among
those indifferent persons may be reckoned nowadays the majority of
German Protestants of the middle classes, especially in the great
laborious centres of trade and commerce; also the majority of laborious
scholars, and the entire University personnel (with the exception of
the theologians, whose existence and possibility there always gives
psychologists new and more subtle puzzles to solve). On the part of
pious, or merely church-going people, there is seldom any idea of HOW
MUCH good-will, one might say arbitrary will, is now necessary for a
German scholar to take the problem of religion seriously; his whole
profession (and as I have said, his whole workmanlike laboriousness, to
which he is compelled by his modern conscience) inclines him to a
lofty and almost charitable serenity as regards religion, with which is
occasionally mingled a slight disdain for the "uncleanliness" of spirit
which he takes for granted wherever any one still professes to belong
to the Church. It is only with the help of history (NOT through his own
personal experience, therefore) that the scholar succeeds in bringing
himself to a respectful seriousness, and to a certain timid deference
in presence of religions; but even when his sentiments have reached the
stage of gratitude towards them, he has not personally advanced one
step nearer to that which still maintains itself as Church or as piety;
perhaps even the contrary. The practical indifference to religious
matters in the midst of which he has been born and brought up, usually
sublimates itself in his case into circumspection and cleanliness, which
shuns contact with religious men and things; and it may be just the
depth of his tolerance and humanity which prompts him to avoid the
delicate trouble which tolerance itself brings with it.--Every age has
its own divine type of naivete, for the discovery of which other ages
may envy it: and how much naivete--adorable, childlike, and boundlessly
foolish naivete is involved in this belief of the scholar in
his superiority, in the good conscience of his tolerance, in the
unsuspecting, simple certainty with which his instinct treats the
religious man as a lower and less valuable type, beyond, before, and
ABOVE which he himself has developed--he, the little arrogant dwarf
and mob-man, the sedulously alert, head-and-hand drudge of "ideas," of
"modern ideas"!

59. Whoever has seen deeply into the world has doubtless divined what
wisdom there is in the fact that men are superficial. It is their
preservative instinct which teaches them to be flighty, lightsome, and
false. Here and there one finds a passionate and exaggerated adoration
of "pure forms" in philosophers as well as in artists: it is not to be
doubted that whoever has NEED of the cult of the superficial to that
extent, has at one time or another made an unlucky dive BENEATH it.
Perhaps there is even an order of rank with respect to those burnt
children, the born artists who find the enjoyment of life only in trying
to FALSIFY its image (as if taking wearisome revenge on it), one might
guess to what degree life has disgusted them, by the extent to which
they wish to see its image falsified, attenuated, ultrified, and
deified,--one might reckon the homines religiosi among the artists, as
their HIGHEST rank. It is the profound, suspicious fear of an incurable
pessimism which compels whole centuries to fasten their teeth into a
religious interpretation of existence: the fear of the instinct which
divines that truth might be attained TOO soon, before man has become
strong enough, hard enough, artist enough.... Piety, the "Life in God,"
regarded in this light, would appear as the most elaborate and
ultimate product of the FEAR of truth, as artist-adoration
and artist-intoxication in presence of the most logical of all
falsifications, as the will to the inversion of truth, to untruth at
any price. Perhaps there has hitherto been no more effective means of
beautifying man than piety, by means of it man can become so artful, so
superficial, so iridescent, and so good, that his appearance no longer
offends.

60. To love mankind FOR GOD'S SAKE--this has so far been the noblest and
remotest sentiment to which mankind has attained. That love to mankind,
without any redeeming intention in the background, is only an ADDITIONAL
folly and brutishness, that the inclination to this love has first to
get its proportion, its delicacy, its gram of salt and sprinkling
of ambergris from a higher inclination--whoever first perceived
and "experienced" this, however his tongue may have stammered as it
attempted to express such a delicate matter, let him for all time be
holy and respected, as the man who has so far flown highest and gone
astray in the finest fashion!

61. The philosopher, as WE free spirits understand him--as the man of
the greatest responsibility, who has the conscience for the general
development of mankind,--will use religion for his disciplining and
educating work, just as he will use the contemporary political
and economic conditions. The selecting and disciplining
influence--destructive, as well as creative and fashioning--which can be
exercised by means of religion is manifold and varied, according to the
sort of people placed under its spell and protection. For those who are
strong and independent, destined and trained to command, in whom the
judgment and skill of a ruling race is incorporated, religion is
an additional means for overcoming resistance in the exercise of
authority--as a bond which binds rulers and subjects in common,
betraying and surrendering to the former the conscience of the latter,
their inmost heart, which would fain escape obedience. And in the
case of the unique natures of noble origin, if by virtue of superior
spirituality they should incline to a more retired and contemplative
life, reserving to themselves only the more refined forms of government
(over chosen disciples or members of an order), religion itself may
be used as a means for obtaining peace from the noise and trouble of
managing GROSSER affairs, and for securing immunity from the UNAVOIDABLE
filth of all political agitation. The Brahmins, for instance, understood
this fact. With the help of a religious organization, they secured to
themselves the power of nominating kings for the people, while their
sentiments prompted them to keep apart and outside, as men with a higher
and super-regal mission. At the same time religion gives inducement and
opportunity to some of the subjects to qualify themselves for future
ruling and commanding the slowly ascending ranks and classes, in which,
through fortunate marriage customs, volitional power and delight in
self-control are on the increase. To them religion offers sufficient
incentives and temptations to aspire to higher intellectuality, and to
experience the sentiments of authoritative self-control, of silence, and
of solitude. Asceticism and Puritanism are almost indispensable means of
educating and ennobling a race which seeks to rise above its hereditary
baseness and work itself upwards to future supremacy. And finally, to
ordinary men, to the majority of the people, who exist for service and
general utility, and are only so far entitled to exist, religion gives
invaluable contentedness with their lot and condition, peace of heart,
ennoblement of obedience, additional social happiness and sympathy,
with something of transfiguration and embellishment, something of
justification of all the commonplaceness, all the meanness, all
the semi-animal poverty of their souls. Religion, together with the
religious significance of life, sheds sunshine over such perpetually
harassed men, and makes even their own aspect endurable to them, it
operates upon them as the Epicurean philosophy usually operates upon
sufferers of a higher order, in a refreshing and refining manner,
almost TURNING suffering TO ACCOUNT, and in the end even hallowing and
vindicating it. There is perhaps nothing so admirable in Christianity
and Buddhism as their art of teaching even the lowest to elevate
themselves by piety to a seemingly higher order of things, and thereby
to retain their satisfaction with the actual world in which they find it
difficult enough to live--this very difficulty being necessary.

62. To be sure--to make also the bad counter-reckoning against such
religions, and to bring to light their secret dangers--the cost is
always excessive and terrible when religions do NOT operate as an
educational and disciplinary medium in the hands of the philosopher, but
rule voluntarily and PARAMOUNTLY, when they wish to be the final end,
and not a means along with other means. Among men, as among all other
animals, there is a surplus of defective, diseased, degenerating,
infirm, and necessarily suffering individuals; the successful cases,
among men also, are always the exception; and in view of the fact that
man is THE ANIMAL NOT YET PROPERLY ADAPTED TO HIS ENVIRONMENT, the rare
exception. But worse still. The higher the type a man represents, the
greater is the improbability that he will SUCCEED; the accidental, the
law of irrationality in the general constitution of mankind, manifests
itself most terribly in its destructive effect on the higher orders of
men, the conditions of whose lives are delicate, diverse, and difficult
to determine. What, then, is the attitude of the two greatest religions
above-mentioned to the SURPLUS of failures in life? They endeavour
to preserve and keep alive whatever can be preserved; in fact, as the
religions FOR SUFFERERS, they take the part of these upon principle;
they are always in favour of those who suffer from life as from a
disease, and they would fain treat every other experience of life as
false and impossible. However highly we may esteem this indulgent and
preservative care (inasmuch as in applying to others, it has applied,
and applies also to the highest and usually the most suffering type of
man), the hitherto PARAMOUNT religions--to give a general appreciation
of them--are among the principal causes which have kept the type of
"man" upon a lower level--they have preserved too much THAT WHICH SHOULD
HAVE PERISHED. One has to thank them for invaluable services; and who is
sufficiently rich in gratitude not to feel poor at the contemplation
of all that the "spiritual men" of Christianity have done for Europe
hitherto! But when they had given comfort to the sufferers, courage to
the oppressed and despairing, a staff and support to the helpless,
and when they had allured from society into convents and spiritual
penitentiaries the broken-hearted and distracted: what else had they
to do in order to work systematically in that fashion, and with a good
conscience, for the preservation of all the sick and suffering, which
means, in deed and in truth, to work for the DETERIORATION OF THE
EUROPEAN RACE? To REVERSE all estimates of value--THAT is what they
had to do! And to shatter the strong, to spoil great hopes, to cast
suspicion on the delight in beauty, to break down everything autonomous,
manly, conquering, and imperious--all instincts which are natural to the
highest and most successful type of "man"--into uncertainty, distress
of conscience, and self-destruction; forsooth, to invert all love of the
earthly and of supremacy over the earth, into hatred of the earth and
earthly things--THAT is the task the Church imposed on itself, and
was obliged to impose, until, according to its standard of value,
"unworldliness," "unsensuousness," and "higher man" fused into one
sentiment. If one could observe the strangely painful, equally coarse
and refined comedy of European Christianity with the derisive and
impartial eye of an Epicurean god, I should think one would never cease
marvelling and laughing; does it not actually seem that some single will
has ruled over Europe for eighteen centuries in order to make a SUBLIME
ABORTION of man? He, however, who, with opposite requirements (no longer
Epicurean) and with some divine hammer in his hand, could approach this
almost voluntary degeneration and stunting of mankind, as exemplified in
the European Christian (Pascal, for instance), would he not have to
cry aloud with rage, pity, and horror: "Oh, you bunglers, presumptuous
pitiful bunglers, what have you done! Was that a work for your hands?
How you have hacked and botched my finest stone! What have you presumed
to do!"--I should say that Christianity has hitherto been the most
portentous of presumptions. Men, not great enough, nor hard enough,
to be entitled as artists to take part in fashioning MAN; men,
not sufficiently strong and far-sighted to ALLOW, with sublime
self-constraint, the obvious law of the thousandfold failures and
perishings to prevail; men, not sufficiently noble to see the radically
different grades of rank and intervals of rank that separate man from
man:--SUCH men, with their "equality before God," have hitherto swayed
the destiny of Europe; until at last a dwarfed, almost ludicrous species
has been produced, a gregarious animal, something obliging, sickly,
mediocre, the European of the present day.



CHAPTER IV. APOPHTHEGMS AND INTERLUDES


63. He who is a thorough teacher takes things seriously--and even
himself--only in relation to his pupils.

64. "Knowledge for its own sake"--that is the last snare laid by
morality: we are thereby completely entangled in morals once more.

65. The charm of knowledge would be small, were it not so much shame has
to be overcome on the way to it.

65A. We are most dishonourable towards our God: he is not PERMITTED to
sin.

66. The tendency of a person to allow himself to be degraded, robbed,
deceived, and exploited might be the diffidence of a God among men.

67. Love to one only is a barbarity, for it is exercised at the expense
of all others. Love to God also!

68. "I did that," says my memory. "I could not have done that," says my
pride, and remains inexorable. Eventually--the memory yields.

69. One has regarded life carelessly, if one has failed to see the hand
that--kills with leniency.

70. If a man has character, he has also his typical experience, which
always recurs.

71. THE SAGE AS ASTRONOMER.--So long as thou feelest the stars as an
"above thee," thou lackest the eye of the discerning one.

72. It is not the strength, but the duration of great sentiments that
makes great men.

73. He who attains his ideal, precisely thereby surpasses it.

73A. Many a peacock hides his tail from every eye--and calls it his
pride.

74. A man of genius is unbearable, unless he possess at least two things
besides: gratitude and purity.

75. The degree and nature of a man's sensuality extends to the highest
altitudes of his spirit.

76. Under peaceful conditions the militant man attacks himself.

77. With his principles a man seeks either to dominate, or justify,
or honour, or reproach, or conceal his habits: two men with the same
principles probably seek fundamentally different ends therewith.

78. He who despises himself, nevertheless esteems himself thereby, as a
despiser.

79. A soul which knows that it is loved, but does not itself love,
betrays its sediment: its dregs come up.

80. A thing that is explained ceases to concern us--What did the God
mean who gave the advice, "Know thyself!" Did it perhaps imply "Cease to
be concerned about thyself! become objective!"--And Socrates?--And the
"scientific man"?

81. It is terrible to die of thirst at sea. Is it necessary that you
should so salt your truth that it will no longer--quench thirst?

82. "Sympathy for all"--would be harshness and tyranny for THEE, my good
neighbour.

83. INSTINCT--When the house is on fire one forgets even the
dinner--Yes, but one recovers it from among the ashes.

84. Woman learns how to hate in proportion as she--forgets how to charm.

85. The same emotions are in man and woman, but in different TEMPO, on
that account man and woman never cease to misunderstand each other.

86. In the background of all their personal vanity, women themselves
have still their impersonal scorn--for "woman".

87. FETTERED HEART, FREE SPIRIT--When one firmly fetters one's heart
and keeps it prisoner, one can allow one's spirit many liberties: I said
this once before But people do not believe it when I say so, unless they
know it already.

88. One begins to distrust very clever persons when they become
embarrassed.

89. Dreadful experiences raise the question whether he who experiences
them is not something dreadful also.

90. Heavy, melancholy men turn lighter, and come temporarily to their
surface, precisely by that which makes others heavy--by hatred and love.

91. So cold, so icy, that one burns one's finger at the touch of him!
Every hand that lays hold of him shrinks back!--And for that very reason
many think him red-hot.

92. Who has not, at one time or another--sacrificed himself for the sake
of his good name?

93. In affability there is no hatred of men, but precisely on that
account a great deal too much contempt of men.

94. The maturity of man--that means, to have reacquired the seriousness
that one had as a child at play.

95. To be ashamed of one's immorality is a step on the ladder at the end
of which one is ashamed also of one's morality.

96. One should part from life as Ulysses parted from Nausicaa--blessing
it rather than in love with it.

97. What? A great man? I always see merely the play-actor of his own
ideal.

98. When one trains one's conscience, it kisses one while it bites.

99. THE DISAPPOINTED ONE SPEAKS--"I listened for the echo and I heard
only praise."

100. We all feign to ourselves that we are simpler than we are, we thus
relax ourselves away from our fellows.

101. A discerning one might easily regard himself at present as the
animalization of God.

102. Discovering reciprocal love should really disenchant the lover with
regard to the beloved. "What! She is modest enough to love even you? Or
stupid enough? Or--or---"

103. THE DANGER IN HAPPINESS.--"Everything now turns out best for me, I
now love every fate:--who would like to be my fate?"

104. Not their love of humanity, but the impotence of their love,
prevents the Christians of today--burning us.

105. The pia fraus is still more repugnant to the taste (the "piety")
of the free spirit (the "pious man of knowledge") than the impia fraus.
Hence the profound lack of judgment, in comparison with the Church,
characteristic of the type "free spirit"--as ITS non-freedom.

106. By means of music the very passions enjoy themselves.

107. A sign of strong character, when once the resolution has been
taken, to shut the ear even to the best counter-arguments. Occasionally,
therefore, a will to stupidity.

108. There is no such thing as moral phenomena, but only a moral
interpretation of phenomena.

109. The criminal is often enough not equal to his deed: he extenuates
and maligns it.

110. The advocates of a criminal are seldom artists enough to turn the
beautiful terribleness of the deed to the advantage of the doer.

111. Our vanity is most difficult to wound just when our pride has been
wounded.

112. To him who feels himself preordained to contemplation and not to
belief, all believers are too noisy and obtrusive; he guards against
them.

113. "You want to prepossess him in your favour? Then you must be
embarrassed before him."

114. The immense expectation with regard to sexual love, and the coyness
in this expectation, spoils all the perspectives of women at the outset.

115. Where there is neither love nor hatred in the game, woman's play is
mediocre.

116. The great epochs of our life are at the points when we gain courage
to rebaptize our badness as the best in us.

117. The will to overcome an emotion, is ultimately only the will of
another, or of several other, emotions.

118. There is an innocence of admiration: it is possessed by him to whom
it has not yet occurred that he himself may be admired some day.

119. Our loathing of dirt may be so great as to prevent our cleaning
ourselves--"justifying" ourselves.

120. Sensuality often forces the growth of love too much, so that its
root remains weak, and is easily torn up.

121. It is a curious thing that God learned Greek when he wished to turn
author--and that he did not learn it better.

122. To rejoice on account of praise is in many cases merely politeness
of heart--and the very opposite of vanity of spirit.

123. Even concubinage has been corrupted--by marriage.

124. He who exults at the stake, does not triumph over pain, but because
of the fact that he does not feel pain where he expected it. A parable.

125. When we have to change an opinion about any one, we charge heavily
to his account the inconvenience he thereby causes us.

126. A nation is a detour of nature to arrive at six or seven great
men.--Yes, and then to get round them.

127. In the eyes of all true women science is hostile to the sense of
shame. They feel as if one wished to peep under their skin with it--or
worse still! under their dress and finery.

128. The more abstract the truth you wish to teach, the more must you
allure the senses to it.

129. The devil has the most extensive perspectives for God; on that
account he keeps so far away from him:--the devil, in effect, as the
oldest friend of knowledge.

130. What a person IS begins to betray itself when his talent
decreases,--when he ceases to show what he CAN do. Talent is also an
adornment; an adornment is also a concealment.

131. The sexes deceive themselves about each other: the reason is that
in reality they honour and love only themselves (or their own ideal, to
express it more agreeably). Thus man wishes woman to be peaceable: but
in fact woman is ESSENTIALLY unpeaceable, like the cat, however well she
may have assumed the peaceable demeanour.

132. One is punished best for one's virtues.

133. He who cannot find the way to HIS ideal, lives more frivolously and
shamelessly than the man without an ideal.

134. From the senses originate all trustworthiness, all good conscience,
all evidence of truth.

135. Pharisaism is not a deterioration of the good man; a considerable
part of it is rather an essential condition of being good.

136. The one seeks an accoucheur for his thoughts, the other seeks some
one whom he can assist: a good conversation thus originates.

137. In intercourse with scholars and artists one readily makes mistakes
of opposite kinds: in a remarkable scholar one not infrequently finds
a mediocre man; and often, even in a mediocre artist, one finds a very
remarkable man.

138. We do the same when awake as when dreaming: we only invent and
imagine him with whom we have intercourse--and forget it immediately.

139. In revenge and in love woman is more barbarous than man.

140. ADVICE AS A RIDDLE.--"If the band is not to break, bite it
first--secure to make!"

141. The belly is the reason why man does not so readily take himself
for a God.

142. The chastest utterance I ever heard: "Dans le veritable amour c'est
l'ame qui enveloppe le corps."

143. Our vanity would like what we do best to pass precisely for what is
most difficult to us.--Concerning the origin of many systems of morals.

144. When a woman has scholarly inclinations there is generally
something wrong with her sexual nature. Barrenness itself conduces to a
certain virility of taste; man, indeed, if I may say so, is "the barren
animal."

145. Comparing man and woman generally, one may say that woman would
not have the genius for adornment, if she had not the instinct for the
SECONDARY role.

146. He who fights with monsters should be careful lest he thereby
become a monster. And if thou gaze long into an abyss, the abyss will
also gaze into thee.

147. From old Florentine novels--moreover, from life: Buona femmina e
mala femmina vuol bastone.--Sacchetti, Nov. 86.

148. To seduce their neighbour to a favourable opinion, and afterwards
to believe implicitly in this opinion of their neighbour--who can do
this conjuring trick so well as women?

149. That which an age considers evil is usually an unseasonable echo of
what was formerly considered good--the atavism of an old ideal.

150. Around the hero everything becomes a tragedy; around the
demigod everything becomes a satyr-play; and around God everything
becomes--what? perhaps a "world"?

151. It is not enough to possess a talent: one must also have your
permission to possess it;--eh, my friends?

152. "Where there is the tree of knowledge, there is always Paradise":
so say the most ancient and the most modern serpents.

153. What is done out of love always takes place beyond good and evil.

154. Objection, evasion, joyous distrust, and love of irony are signs of
health; everything absolute belongs to pathology.

155. The sense of the tragic increases and declines with sensuousness.

156. Insanity in individuals is something rare--but in groups, parties,
nations, and epochs it is the rule.

157. The thought of suicide is a great consolation: by means of it one
gets successfully through many a bad night.

158. Not only our reason, but also our conscience, truckles to our
strongest impulse--the tyrant in us.

159. One MUST repay good and ill; but why just to the person who did us
good or ill?

160. One no longer loves one's knowledge sufficiently after one has
communicated it.

161. Poets act shamelessly towards their experiences: they exploit them.

162. "Our fellow-creature is not our neighbour, but our neighbour's
neighbour":--so thinks every nation.

163. Love brings to light the noble and hidden qualities of a lover--his
rare and exceptional traits: it is thus liable to be deceptive as to his
normal character.

164. Jesus said to his Jews: "The law was for servants;--love God as I
love him, as his Son! What have we Sons of God to do with morals!"

165. IN SIGHT OF EVERY PARTY.--A shepherd has always need of a
bell-wether--or he has himself to be a wether occasionally.

166. One may indeed lie with the mouth; but with the accompanying
grimace one nevertheless tells the truth.

167. To vigorous men intimacy is a matter of shame--and something
precious.

168. Christianity gave Eros poison to drink; he did not die of it,
certainly, but degenerated to Vice.

169. To talk much about oneself may also be a means of concealing
oneself.

170. In praise there is more obtrusiveness than in blame.

171. Pity has an almost ludicrous effect on a man of knowledge, like
tender hands on a Cyclops.

172. One occasionally embraces some one or other, out of love to mankind
(because one cannot embrace all); but this is what one must never
confess to the individual.

173. One does not hate as long as one disesteems, but only when one
esteems equal or superior.

174. Ye Utilitarians--ye, too, love the UTILE only as a VEHICLE for
your inclinations,--ye, too, really find the noise of its wheels
insupportable!

175. One loves ultimately one's desires, not the thing desired.

176. The vanity of others is only counter to our taste when it is
counter to our vanity.

177. With regard to what "truthfulness" is, perhaps nobody has ever been
sufficiently truthful.

178. One does not believe in the follies of clever men: what a
forfeiture of the rights of man!

179. The consequences of our actions seize us by the forelock, very
indifferent to the fact that we have meanwhile "reformed."

180. There is an innocence in lying which is the sign of good faith in a
cause.

181. It is inhuman to bless when one is being cursed.

182. The familiarity of superiors embitters one, because it may not be
returned.

183. "I am affected, not because you have deceived me, but because I can
no longer believe in you."

184. There is a haughtiness of kindness which has the appearance of
wickedness.

185. "I dislike him."--Why?--"I am not a match for him."--Did any one
ever answer so?



CHAPTER V. THE NATURAL HISTORY OF MORALS


186. The moral sentiment in Europe at present is perhaps as subtle,
belated, diverse, sensitive, and refined, as the "Science of Morals"
belonging thereto is recent, initial, awkward, and coarse-fingered:--an
interesting contrast, which sometimes becomes incarnate and obvious
in the very person of a moralist. Indeed, the expression, "Science
of Morals" is, in respect to what is designated thereby, far too
presumptuous and counter to GOOD taste,--which is always a foretaste of
more modest expressions. One ought to avow with the utmost fairness WHAT
is still necessary here for a long time, WHAT is alone proper for the
present: namely, the collection of material, the comprehensive survey
and classification of an immense domain of delicate sentiments of worth,
and distinctions of worth, which live, grow, propagate, and perish--and
perhaps attempts to give a clear idea of the recurring and more common
forms of these living crystallizations--as preparation for a THEORY OF
TYPES of morality. To be sure, people have not hitherto been so modest.
All the philosophers, with a pedantic and ridiculous seriousness,
demanded of themselves something very much higher, more pretentious, and
ceremonious, when they concerned themselves with morality as a science:
they wanted to GIVE A BASIC to morality--and every philosopher hitherto
has believed that he has given it a basis; morality itself, however, has
been regarded as something "given." How far from their awkward pride
was the seemingly insignificant problem--left in dust and decay--of a
description of forms of morality, notwithstanding that the finest hands
and senses could hardly be fine enough for it! It was precisely owing to
moral philosophers' knowing the moral facts imperfectly, in an arbitrary
epitome, or an accidental abridgement--perhaps as the morality of
their environment, their position, their church, their Zeitgeist, their
climate and zone--it was precisely because they were badly instructed
with regard to nations, eras, and past ages, and were by no means eager
to know about these matters, that they did not even come in sight of the
real problems of morals--problems which only disclose themselves by
a comparison of MANY kinds of morality. In every "Science of Morals"
hitherto, strange as it may sound, the problem of morality itself
has been OMITTED: there has been no suspicion that there was anything
problematic there! That which philosophers called "giving a basis to
morality," and endeavoured to realize, has, when seen in a right light,
proved merely a learned form of good FAITH in prevailing morality, a new
means of its EXPRESSION, consequently just a matter-of-fact within the
sphere of a definite morality, yea, in its ultimate motive, a sort of
denial that it is LAWFUL for this morality to be called in question--and
in any case the reverse of the testing, analyzing, doubting, and
vivisecting of this very faith. Hear, for instance, with what
innocence--almost worthy of honour--Schopenhauer represents his own
task, and draw your conclusions concerning the scientificness of a
"Science" whose latest master still talks in the strain of children and
old wives: "The principle," he says (page 136 of the Grundprobleme der
Ethik), [Footnote: Pages 54-55 of Schopenhauer's Basis of Morality,
translated by Arthur B. Bullock, M.A. (1903).] "the axiom about the
purport of which all moralists are PRACTICALLY agreed: neminem laede,
immo omnes quantum potes juva--is REALLY the proposition which all moral
teachers strive to establish, ... the REAL basis of ethics which
has been sought, like the philosopher's stone, for centuries."--The
difficulty of establishing the proposition referred to may indeed be
great--it is well known that Schopenhauer also was unsuccessful in his
efforts; and whoever has thoroughly realized how absurdly false and
sentimental this proposition is, in a world whose essence is Will
to Power, may be reminded that Schopenhauer, although a pessimist,
ACTUALLY--played the flute... daily after dinner: one may read about
the matter in his biography. A question by the way: a pessimist, a
repudiator of God and of the world, who MAKES A HALT at morality--who
assents to morality, and plays the flute to laede-neminem morals, what?
Is that really--a pessimist?

187. Apart from the value of such assertions as "there is a categorical
imperative in us," one can always ask: What does such an assertion
indicate about him who makes it? There are systems of morals which are
meant to justify their author in the eyes of other people; other systems
of morals are meant to tranquilize him, and make him self-satisfied;
with other systems he wants to crucify and humble himself, with others
he wishes to take revenge, with others to conceal himself, with others
to glorify himself and gave superiority and distinction,--this system of
morals helps its author to forget, that system makes him, or something
of him, forgotten, many a moralist would like to exercise power and
creative arbitrariness over mankind, many another, perhaps, Kant
especially, gives us to understand by his morals that "what is estimable
in me, is that I know how to obey--and with you it SHALL not be
otherwise than with me!" In short, systems of morals are only a
SIGN-LANGUAGE OF THE EMOTIONS.

188. In contrast to laisser-aller, every system of morals is a sort of
tyranny against "nature" and also against "reason", that is, however, no
objection, unless one should again decree by some system of morals, that
all kinds of tyranny and unreasonableness are unlawful What is
essential and invaluable in every system of morals, is that it is a
long constraint. In order to understand Stoicism, or Port Royal,
or Puritanism, one should remember the constraint under which every
language has attained to strength and freedom--the metrical constraint,
the tyranny of rhyme and rhythm. How much trouble have the poets and
orators of every nation given themselves!--not excepting some of
the prose writers of today, in whose ear dwells an inexorable
conscientiousness--"for the sake of a folly," as utilitarian bunglers
say, and thereby deem themselves wise--"from submission to arbitrary
laws," as the anarchists say, and thereby fancy themselves "free," even
free-spirited. The singular fact remains, however, that everything
of the nature of freedom, elegance, boldness, dance, and masterly
certainty, which exists or has existed, whether it be in thought itself,
or in administration, or in speaking and persuading, in art just as in
conduct, has only developed by means of the tyranny of such arbitrary
law, and in all seriousness, it is not at all improbable that precisely
this is "nature" and "natural"--and not laisser-aller! Every artist
knows how different from the state of letting himself go, is his
"most natural" condition, the free arranging, locating, disposing,
and constructing in the moments of "inspiration"--and how strictly and
delicately he then obeys a thousand laws, which, by their very rigidness
and precision, defy all formulation by means of ideas (even the most
stable idea has, in comparison therewith, something floating, manifold,
and ambiguous in it). The essential thing "in heaven and in earth" is,
apparently (to repeat it once more), that there should be long OBEDIENCE
in the same direction, there thereby results, and has always resulted in
the long run, something which has made life worth living; for instance,
virtue, art, music, dancing, reason, spirituality--anything whatever
that is transfiguring, refined, foolish, or divine. The long bondage of
the spirit, the distrustful constraint in the communicability of
ideas, the discipline which the thinker imposed on himself to think
in accordance with the rules of a church or a court, or conformable
to Aristotelian premises, the persistent spiritual will to interpret
everything that happened according to a Christian scheme, and in every
occurrence to rediscover and justify the Christian God:--all this
violence, arbitrariness, severity, dreadfulness, and unreasonableness,
has proved itself the disciplinary means whereby the European spirit has
attained its strength, its remorseless curiosity and subtle mobility;
granted also that much irrecoverable strength and spirit had to be
stifled, suffocated, and spoilt in the process (for here, as everywhere,
"nature" shows herself as she is, in all her extravagant and INDIFFERENT
magnificence, which is shocking, but nevertheless noble). That
for centuries European thinkers only thought in order to prove
something--nowadays, on the contrary, we are suspicious of every thinker
who "wishes to prove something"--that it was always settled beforehand
what WAS TO BE the result of their strictest thinking, as it was perhaps
in the Asiatic astrology of former times, or as it is still at the
present day in the innocent, Christian-moral explanation of immediate
personal events "for the glory of God," or "for the good of the
soul":--this tyranny, this arbitrariness, this severe and magnificent
stupidity, has EDUCATED the spirit; slavery, both in the coarser and
the finer sense, is apparently an indispensable means even of spiritual
education and discipline. One may look at every system of morals in this
light: it is "nature" therein which teaches to hate the laisser-aller,
the too great freedom, and implants the need for limited horizons, for
immediate duties--it teaches the NARROWING OF PERSPECTIVES, and thus, in
a certain sense, that stupidity is a condition of life and development.
"Thou must obey some one, and for a long time; OTHERWISE thou wilt come
to grief, and lose all respect for thyself"--this seems to me to be the
moral imperative of nature, which is certainly neither "categorical,"
as old Kant wished (consequently the "otherwise"), nor does it address
itself to the individual (what does nature care for the individual!),
but to nations, races, ages, and ranks; above all, however, to the
animal "man" generally, to MANKIND.

189. Industrious races find it a great hardship to be idle: it was a
master stroke of ENGLISH instinct to hallow and begloom Sunday to such
an extent that the Englishman unconsciously hankers for his week--and
work-day again:--as a kind of cleverly devised, cleverly intercalated
FAST, such as is also frequently found in the ancient world (although,
as is appropriate in southern nations, not precisely with respect
to work). Many kinds of fasts are necessary; and wherever powerful
influences and habits prevail, legislators have to see that intercalary
days are appointed, on which such impulses are fettered, and learn to
hunger anew. Viewed from a higher standpoint, whole generations and
epochs, when they show themselves infected with any moral fanaticism,
seem like those intercalated periods of restraint and fasting, during
which an impulse learns to humble and submit itself--at the same time
also to PURIFY and SHARPEN itself; certain philosophical sects likewise
admit of a similar interpretation (for instance, the Stoa, in the midst
of Hellenic culture, with the atmosphere rank and overcharged with
Aphrodisiacal odours).--Here also is a hint for the explanation of the
paradox, why it was precisely in the most Christian period of European
history, and in general only under the pressure of Christian sentiments,
that the sexual impulse sublimated into love (amour-passion).

190. There is something in the morality of Plato which does not really
belong to Plato, but which only appears in his philosophy, one might
say, in spite of him: namely, Socratism, for which he himself was
too noble. "No one desires to injure himself, hence all evil is done
unwittingly. The evil man inflicts injury on himself; he would not do
so, however, if he knew that evil is evil. The evil man, therefore, is
only evil through error; if one free him from error one will necessarily
make him--good."--This mode of reasoning savours of the POPULACE, who
perceive only the unpleasant consequences of evil-doing, and practically
judge that "it is STUPID to do wrong"; while they accept "good" as
identical with "useful and pleasant," without further thought. As
regards every system of utilitarianism, one may at once assume that it
has the same origin, and follow the scent: one will seldom err.--Plato
did all he could to interpret something refined and noble into the
tenets of his teacher, and above all to interpret himself into them--he,
the most daring of all interpreters, who lifted the entire Socrates out
of the street, as a popular theme and song, to exhibit him in endless
and impossible modifications--namely, in all his own disguises and
multiplicities. In jest, and in Homeric language as well, what is the
Platonic Socrates, if not--[Greek words inserted here.]

191. The old theological problem of "Faith" and "Knowledge," or more
plainly, of instinct and reason--the question whether, in respect to the
valuation of things, instinct deserves more authority than rationality,
which wants to appreciate and act according to motives, according to
a "Why," that is to say, in conformity to purpose and utility--it
is always the old moral problem that first appeared in the person of
Socrates, and had divided men's minds long before Christianity. Socrates
himself, following, of course, the taste of his talent--that of a
surpassing dialectician--took first the side of reason; and, in fact,
what did he do all his life but laugh at the awkward incapacity of the
noble Athenians, who were men of instinct, like all noble men, and could
never give satisfactory answers concerning the motives of their actions?
In the end, however, though silently and secretly, he laughed also
at himself: with his finer conscience and introspection, he found
in himself the same difficulty and incapacity. "But why"--he said
to himself--"should one on that account separate oneself from the
instincts! One must set them right, and the reason ALSO--one must follow
the instincts, but at the same time persuade the reason to support them
with good arguments." This was the real FALSENESS of that great and
mysterious ironist; he brought his conscience up to the point that he
was satisfied with a kind of self-outwitting: in fact, he perceived
the irrationality in the moral judgment.--Plato, more innocent in such
matters, and without the craftiness of the plebeian, wished to prove to
himself, at the expenditure of all his strength--the greatest strength
a philosopher had ever expended--that reason and instinct lead
spontaneously to one goal, to the good, to "God"; and since Plato, all
theologians and philosophers have followed the same path--which means
that in matters of morality, instinct (or as Christians call it,
"Faith," or as I call it, "the herd") has hitherto triumphed. Unless
one should make an exception in the case of Descartes, the father of
rationalism (and consequently the grandfather of the Revolution), who
recognized only the authority of reason: but reason is only a tool, and
Descartes was superficial.

192. Whoever has followed the history of a single science, finds in
its development a clue to the understanding of the oldest and commonest
processes of all "knowledge and cognizance": there, as here, the
premature hypotheses, the fictions, the good stupid will to "belief,"
and the lack of distrust and patience are first developed--our senses
learn late, and never learn completely, to be subtle, reliable, and
cautious organs of knowledge. Our eyes find it easier on a given
occasion to produce a picture already often produced, than to seize upon
the divergence and novelty of an impression: the latter requires more
force, more "morality." It is difficult and painful for the ear to
listen to anything new; we hear strange music badly. When we hear
another language spoken, we involuntarily attempt to form the sounds
into words with which we are more familiar and conversant--it was thus,
for example, that the Germans modified the spoken word ARCUBALISTA into
ARMBRUST (cross-bow). Our senses are also hostile and averse to the
new; and generally, even in the "simplest" processes of sensation, the
emotions DOMINATE--such as fear, love, hatred, and the passive emotion
of indolence.--As little as a reader nowadays reads all the single words
(not to speak of syllables) of a page--he rather takes about five out
of every twenty words at random, and "guesses" the probably appropriate
sense to them--just as little do we see a tree correctly and completely
in respect to its leaves, branches, colour, and shape; we find it so
much easier to fancy the chance of a tree. Even in the midst of the
most remarkable experiences, we still do just the same; we fabricate the
greater part of the experience, and can hardly be made to contemplate
any event, EXCEPT as "inventors" thereof. All this goes to prove
that from our fundamental nature and from remote ages we have
been--ACCUSTOMED TO LYING. Or, to express it more politely and
hypocritically, in short, more pleasantly--one is much more of an artist
than one is aware of.--In an animated conversation, I often see the face
of the person with whom I am speaking so clearly and sharply defined
before me, according to the thought he expresses, or which I believe to
be evoked in his mind, that the degree of distinctness far exceeds the
STRENGTH of my visual faculty--the delicacy of the play of the muscles
and of the expression of the eyes MUST therefore be imagined by me.
Probably the person put on quite a different expression, or none at all.

193. Quidquid luce fuit, tenebris agit: but also contrariwise. What we
experience in dreams, provided we experience it often, pertains at
last just as much to the general belongings of our soul as anything
"actually" experienced; by virtue thereof we are richer or poorer, we
have a requirement more or less, and finally, in broad daylight, and
even in the brightest moments of our waking life, we are ruled to some
extent by the nature of our dreams. Supposing that someone has often
flown in his dreams, and that at last, as soon as he dreams, he is
conscious of the power and art of flying as his privilege and his
peculiarly enviable happiness; such a person, who believes that on the
slightest impulse, he can actualize all sorts of curves and angles, who
knows the sensation of a certain divine levity, an "upwards"
without effort or constraint, a "downwards" without descending
or lowering--without TROUBLE!--how could the man with such
dream-experiences and dream-habits fail to find "happiness" differently
coloured and defined, even in his waking hours! How could he fail--to
long DIFFERENTLY for happiness? "Flight," such as is described by poets,
must, when compared with his own "flying," be far too earthly, muscular,
violent, far too "troublesome" for him.

194. The difference among men does not manifest itself only in the
difference of their lists of desirable things--in their regarding
different good things as worth striving for, and being disagreed as to
the greater or less value, the order of rank, of the commonly recognized
desirable things:--it manifests itself much more in what they regard as
actually HAVING and POSSESSING a desirable thing. As regards a woman,
for instance, the control over her body and her sexual gratification
serves as an amply sufficient sign of ownership and possession to the
more modest man; another with a more suspicious and ambitious thirst for
possession, sees the "questionableness," the mere apparentness of such
ownership, and wishes to have finer tests in order to know especially
whether the woman not only gives herself to him, but also gives up for
his sake what she has or would like to have--only THEN does he look upon
her as "possessed." A third, however, has not even here got to the limit
of his distrust and his desire for possession: he asks himself whether
the woman, when she gives up everything for him, does not perhaps do
so for a phantom of him; he wishes first to be thoroughly, indeed,
profoundly well known; in order to be loved at all he ventures to let
himself be found out. Only then does he feel the beloved one fully in
his possession, when she no longer deceives herself about him, when
she loves him just as much for the sake of his devilry and concealed
insatiability, as for his goodness, patience, and spirituality. One
man would like to possess a nation, and he finds all the higher arts of
Cagliostro and Catalina suitable for his purpose. Another, with a more
refined thirst for possession, says to himself: "One may not deceive
where one desires to possess"--he is irritated and impatient at the idea
that a mask of him should rule in the hearts of the people: "I must,
therefore, MAKE myself known, and first of all learn to know myself!"
Among helpful and charitable people, one almost always finds the awkward
craftiness which first gets up suitably him who has to be helped, as
though, for instance, he should "merit" help, seek just THEIR help, and
would show himself deeply grateful, attached, and subservient to them
for all help. With these conceits, they take control of the needy as a
property, just as in general they are charitable and helpful out of a
desire for property. One finds them jealous when they are crossed or
forestalled in their charity. Parents involuntarily make something like
themselves out of their children--they call that "education"; no mother
doubts at the bottom of her heart that the child she has borne is
thereby her property, no father hesitates about his right to HIS OWN
ideas and notions of worth. Indeed, in former times fathers deemed it
right to use their discretion concerning the life or death of the newly
born (as among the ancient Germans). And like the father, so also do the
teacher, the class, the priest, and the prince still see in every new
individual an unobjectionable opportunity for a new possession. The
consequence is...

195. The Jews--a people "born for slavery," as Tacitus and the whole
ancient world say of them; "the chosen people among the nations," as
they themselves say and believe--the Jews performed the miracle of the
inversion of valuations, by means of which life on earth obtained a new
and dangerous charm for a couple of millenniums. Their prophets fused
into one the expressions "rich," "godless," "wicked," "violent,"
"sensual," and for the first time coined the word "world" as a term of
reproach. In this inversion of valuations (in which is also included
the use of the word "poor" as synonymous with "saint" and "friend") the
significance of the Jewish people is to be found; it is with THEM that
the SLAVE-INSURRECTION IN MORALS commences.

196. It is to be INFERRED that there are countless dark bodies near the
sun--such as we shall never see. Among ourselves, this is an allegory;
and the psychologist of morals reads the whole star-writing merely as an
allegorical and symbolic language in which much may be unexpressed.

197. The beast of prey and the man of prey (for instance, Caesar Borgia)
are fundamentally misunderstood, "nature" is misunderstood, so long as
one seeks a "morbidness" in the constitution of these healthiest of
all tropical monsters and growths, or even an innate "hell" in them--as
almost all moralists have done hitherto. Does it not seem that there is
a hatred of the virgin forest and of the tropics among moralists? And
that the "tropical man" must be discredited at all costs, whether
as disease and deterioration of mankind, or as his own hell and
self-torture? And why? In favour of the "temperate zones"? In favour
of the temperate men? The "moral"? The mediocre?--This for the chapter:
"Morals as Timidity."

198. All the systems of morals which address themselves with a view to
their "happiness," as it is called--what else are they but suggestions
for behaviour adapted to the degree of DANGER from themselves in which
the individuals live; recipes for their passions, their good and bad
propensities, insofar as such have the Will to Power and would like
to play the master; small and great expediencies and elaborations,
permeated with the musty odour of old family medicines and old-wife
wisdom; all of them grotesque and absurd in their form--because
they address themselves to "all," because they generalize where
generalization is not authorized; all of them speaking unconditionally,
and taking themselves unconditionally; all of them flavoured not merely
with one grain of salt, but rather endurable only, and sometimes even
seductive, when they are over-spiced and begin to smell dangerously,
especially of "the other world." That is all of little value when
estimated intellectually, and is far from being "science," much less
"wisdom"; but, repeated once more, and three times repeated, it is
expediency, expediency, expediency, mixed with stupidity, stupidity,
stupidity--whether it be the indifference and statuesque coldness
towards the heated folly of the emotions, which the Stoics advised and
fostered; or the no-more-laughing and no-more-weeping of Spinoza, the
destruction of the emotions by their analysis and vivisection, which he
recommended so naively; or the lowering of the emotions to an innocent
mean at which they may be satisfied, the Aristotelianism of morals;
or even morality as the enjoyment of the emotions in a voluntary
attenuation and spiritualization by the symbolism of art, perhaps as
music, or as love of God, and of mankind for God's sake--for in religion
the passions are once more enfranchised, provided that...; or, finally,
even the complaisant and wanton surrender to the emotions, as has
been taught by Hafis and Goethe, the bold letting-go of the reins, the
spiritual and corporeal licentia morum in the exceptional cases of
wise old codgers and drunkards, with whom it "no longer has much
danger."--This also for the chapter: "Morals as Timidity."

199. Inasmuch as in all ages, as long as mankind has existed, there have
also been human herds (family alliances, communities, tribes, peoples,
states, churches), and always a great number who obey in proportion
to the small number who command--in view, therefore, of the fact that
obedience has been most practiced and fostered among mankind hitherto,
one may reasonably suppose that, generally speaking, the need thereof is
now innate in every one, as a kind of FORMAL CONSCIENCE which gives
the command "Thou shalt unconditionally do something, unconditionally
refrain from something", in short, "Thou shalt". This need tries to
satisfy itself and to fill its form with a content, according to its
strength, impatience, and eagerness, it at once seizes as an omnivorous
appetite with little selection, and accepts whatever is shouted into
its ear by all sorts of commanders--parents, teachers, laws, class
prejudices, or public opinion. The extraordinary limitation of human
development, the hesitation, protractedness, frequent retrogression, and
turning thereof, is attributable to the fact that the herd-instinct of
obedience is transmitted best, and at the cost of the art of command. If
one imagine this instinct increasing to its greatest extent, commanders
and independent individuals will finally be lacking altogether, or they
will suffer inwardly from a bad conscience, and will have to impose
a deception on themselves in the first place in order to be able to
command just as if they also were only obeying. This condition of things
actually exists in Europe at present--I call it the moral hypocrisy of
the commanding class. They know no other way of protecting themselves
from their bad conscience than by playing the role of executors of older
and higher orders (of predecessors, of the constitution, of justice, of
the law, or of God himself), or they even justify themselves by maxims
from the current opinions of the herd, as "first servants of their
people," or "instruments of the public weal". On the other hand, the
gregarious European man nowadays assumes an air as if he were the only
kind of man that is allowable, he glorifies his qualities, such as
public spirit, kindness, deference, industry, temperance, modesty,
indulgence, sympathy, by virtue of which he is gentle, endurable, and
useful to the herd, as the peculiarly human virtues. In cases, however,
where it is believed that the leader and bell-wether cannot be dispensed
with, attempt after attempt is made nowadays to replace commanders
by the summing together of clever gregarious men all representative
constitutions, for example, are of this origin. In spite of all, what a
blessing, what a deliverance from a weight becoming unendurable, is the
appearance of an absolute ruler for these gregarious Europeans--of this
fact the effect of the appearance of Napoleon was the last great proof
the history of the influence of Napoleon is almost the history of
the higher happiness to which the entire century has attained in its
worthiest individuals and periods.

200. The man of an age of dissolution which mixes the races with
one another, who has the inheritance of a diversified descent in his
body--that is to say, contrary, and often not only contrary, instincts
and standards of value, which struggle with one another and are seldom
at peace--such a man of late culture and broken lights, will, on an
average, be a weak man. His fundamental desire is that the war which is
IN HIM should come to an end; happiness appears to him in the character
of a soothing medicine and mode of thought (for instance, Epicurean
or Christian); it is above all things the happiness of repose, of
undisturbedness, of repletion, of final unity--it is the "Sabbath of
Sabbaths," to use the expression of the holy rhetorician, St. Augustine,
who was himself such a man.--Should, however, the contrariety and
conflict in such natures operate as an ADDITIONAL incentive and stimulus
to life--and if, on the other hand, in addition to their powerful and
irreconcilable instincts, they have also inherited and indoctrinated
into them a proper mastery and subtlety for carrying on the conflict
with themselves (that is to say, the faculty of self-control and
self-deception), there then arise those marvelously incomprehensible and
inexplicable beings, those enigmatical men, predestined for conquering
and circumventing others, the finest examples of which are Alcibiades
and Caesar (with whom I should like to associate the FIRST of Europeans
according to my taste, the Hohenstaufen, Frederick the Second), and
among artists, perhaps Leonardo da Vinci. They appear precisely in the
same periods when that weaker type, with its longing for repose, comes
to the front; the two types are complementary to each other, and spring
from the same causes.

201. As long as the utility which determines moral estimates is only
gregarious utility, as long as the preservation of the community is only
kept in view, and the immoral is sought precisely and exclusively in
what seems dangerous to the maintenance of the community, there can be
no "morality of love to one's neighbour." Granted even that there is
already a little constant exercise of consideration, sympathy, fairness,
gentleness, and mutual assistance, granted that even in this condition
of society all those instincts are already active which are latterly
distinguished by honourable names as "virtues," and eventually almost
coincide with the conception "morality": in that period they do not
as yet belong to the domain of moral valuations--they are still
ULTRA-MORAL. A sympathetic action, for instance, is neither called good
nor bad, moral nor immoral, in the best period of the Romans; and should
it be praised, a sort of resentful disdain is compatible with this
praise, even at the best, directly the sympathetic action is compared
with one which contributes to the welfare of the whole, to the RES
PUBLICA. After all, "love to our neighbour" is always a secondary
matter, partly conventional and arbitrarily manifested in relation to
our FEAR OF OUR NEIGHBOUR. After the fabric of society seems on the
whole established and secured against external dangers, it is this
fear of our neighbour which again creates new perspectives of moral
valuation. Certain strong and dangerous instincts, such as the love of
enterprise, foolhardiness, revengefulness, astuteness, rapacity, and
love of power, which up till then had not only to be honoured from the
point of view of general utility--under other names, of course, than
those here given--but had to be fostered and cultivated (because they
were perpetually required in the common danger against the common
enemies), are now felt in their dangerousness to be doubly strong--when
the outlets for them are lacking--and are gradually branded as immoral
and given over to calumny. The contrary instincts and inclinations now
attain to moral honour, the gregarious instinct gradually draws its
conclusions. How much or how little dangerousness to the community or
to equality is contained in an opinion, a condition, an emotion, a
disposition, or an endowment--that is now the moral perspective, here
again fear is the mother of morals. It is by the loftiest and strongest
instincts, when they break out passionately and carry the individual
far above and beyond the average, and the low level of the gregarious
conscience, that the self-reliance of the community is destroyed, its
belief in itself, its backbone, as it were, breaks, consequently these
very instincts will be most branded and defamed. The lofty independent
spirituality, the will to stand alone, and even the cogent reason, are
felt to be dangers, everything that elevates the individual above the
herd, and is a source of fear to the neighbour, is henceforth called
EVIL, the tolerant, unassuming, self-adapting, self-equalizing
disposition, the MEDIOCRITY of desires, attains to moral distinction and
honour. Finally, under very peaceful circumstances, there is always
less opportunity and necessity for training the feelings to severity
and rigour, and now every form of severity, even in justice, begins
to disturb the conscience, a lofty and rigorous nobleness and
self-responsibility almost offends, and awakens distrust, "the lamb,"
and still more "the sheep," wins respect. There is a point of diseased
mellowness and effeminacy in the history of society, at which society
itself takes the part of him who injures it, the part of the CRIMINAL,
and does so, in fact, seriously and honestly. To punish, appears to it
to be somehow unfair--it is certain that the idea of "punishment" and
"the obligation to punish" are then painful and alarming to people. "Is
it not sufficient if the criminal be rendered HARMLESS? Why should we
still punish? Punishment itself is terrible!"--with these questions
gregarious morality, the morality of fear, draws its ultimate
conclusion. If one could at all do away with danger, the cause of fear,
one would have done away with this morality at the same time, it
would no longer be necessary, it WOULD NOT CONSIDER ITSELF any longer
necessary!--Whoever examines the conscience of the present-day European,
will always elicit the same imperative from its thousand moral folds
and hidden recesses, the imperative of the timidity of the herd "we wish
that some time or other there may be NOTHING MORE TO FEAR!" Some time
or other--the will and the way THERETO is nowadays called "progress" all
over Europe.

202. Let us at once say again what we have already said a hundred
times, for people's ears nowadays are unwilling to hear such truths--OUR
truths. We know well enough how offensive it sounds when any one
plainly, and without metaphor, counts man among the animals, but it will
be accounted to us almost a CRIME, that it is precisely in respect to
men of "modern ideas" that we have constantly applied the terms "herd,"
"herd-instincts," and such like expressions. What avail is it? We cannot
do otherwise, for it is precisely here that our new insight is. We
have found that in all the principal moral judgments, Europe has become
unanimous, including likewise the countries where European influence
prevails in Europe people evidently KNOW what Socrates thought he
did not know, and what the famous serpent of old once promised to
teach--they "know" today what is good and evil. It must then sound hard
and be distasteful to the ear, when we always insist that that which
here thinks it knows, that which here glorifies itself with praise
and blame, and calls itself good, is the instinct of the herding human
animal, the instinct which has come and is ever coming more and more
to the front, to preponderance and supremacy over other instincts,
according to the increasing physiological approximation and resemblance
of which it is the symptom. MORALITY IN EUROPE AT PRESENT IS
HERDING-ANIMAL MORALITY, and therefore, as we understand the matter,
only one kind of human morality, beside which, before which, and after
which many other moralities, and above all HIGHER moralities, are or
should be possible. Against such a "possibility," against such a "should
be," however, this morality defends itself with all its strength, it
says obstinately and inexorably "I am morality itself and nothing else
is morality!" Indeed, with the help of a religion which has humoured
and flattered the sublimest desires of the herding-animal, things have
reached such a point that we always find a more visible expression of
this morality even in political and social arrangements: the DEMOCRATIC
movement is the inheritance of the Christian movement. That its TEMPO,
however, is much too slow and sleepy for the more impatient ones, for
those who are sick and distracted by the herding-instinct, is indicated
by the increasingly furious howling, and always less disguised
teeth-gnashing of the anarchist dogs, who are now roving through the
highways of European culture. Apparently in opposition to the peacefully
industrious democrats and Revolution-ideologues, and still more so
to the awkward philosophasters and fraternity-visionaries who call
themselves Socialists and want a "free society," those are really at one
with them all in their thorough and instinctive hostility to every form
of society other than that of the AUTONOMOUS herd (to the extent even of
repudiating the notions "master" and "servant"--ni dieu ni maitre, says
a socialist formula); at one in their tenacious opposition to every
special claim, every special right and privilege (this means ultimately
opposition to EVERY right, for when all are equal, no one needs "rights"
any longer); at one in their distrust of punitive justice (as though it
were a violation of the weak, unfair to the NECESSARY consequences of
all former society); but equally at one in their religion of sympathy,
in their compassion for all that feels, lives, and suffers (down to the
very animals, up even to "God"--the extravagance of "sympathy for
God" belongs to a democratic age); altogether at one in the cry and
impatience of their sympathy, in their deadly hatred of suffering
generally, in their almost feminine incapacity for witnessing it or
ALLOWING it; at one in their involuntary beglooming and heart-softening,
under the spell of which Europe seems to be threatened with a new
Buddhism; at one in their belief in the morality of MUTUAL sympathy, as
though it were morality in itself, the climax, the ATTAINED climax of
mankind, the sole hope of the future, the consolation of the present,
the great discharge from all the obligations of the past; altogether at
one in their belief in the community as the DELIVERER, in the herd, and
therefore in "themselves."

203. We, who hold a different belief--we, who regard the democratic
movement, not only as a degenerating form of political organization, but
as equivalent to a degenerating, a waning type of man, as involving his
mediocrising and depreciation: where have WE to fix our hopes? In
NEW PHILOSOPHERS--there is no other alternative: in minds strong and
original enough to initiate opposite estimates of value, to transvalue
and invert "eternal valuations"; in forerunners, in men of the future,
who in the present shall fix the constraints and fasten the knots which
will compel millenniums to take NEW paths. To teach man the future
of humanity as his WILL, as depending on human will, and to make
preparation for vast hazardous enterprises and collective attempts in
rearing and educating, in order thereby to put an end to the frightful
rule of folly and chance which has hitherto gone by the name of
"history" (the folly of the "greatest number" is only its last
form)--for that purpose a new type of philosopher and commander will
some time or other be needed, at the very idea of which everything that
has existed in the way of occult, terrible, and benevolent beings might
look pale and dwarfed. The image of such leaders hovers before OUR
eyes:--is it lawful for me to say it aloud, ye free spirits? The
conditions which one would partly have to create and partly utilize for
their genesis; the presumptive methods and tests by virtue of which
a soul should grow up to such an elevation and power as to feel a
CONSTRAINT to these tasks; a transvaluation of values, under the new
pressure and hammer of which a conscience should be steeled and a heart
transformed into brass, so as to bear the weight of such responsibility;
and on the other hand the necessity for such leaders, the dreadful
danger that they might be lacking, or miscarry and degenerate:--these
are OUR real anxieties and glooms, ye know it well, ye free spirits!
these are the heavy distant thoughts and storms which sweep across the
heaven of OUR life. There are few pains so grievous as to have seen,
divined, or experienced how an exceptional man has missed his way and
deteriorated; but he who has the rare eye for the universal danger
of "man" himself DETERIORATING, he who like us has recognized the
extraordinary fortuitousness which has hitherto played its game in
respect to the future of mankind--a game in which neither the hand, nor
even a "finger of God" has participated!--he who divines the fate that
is hidden under the idiotic unwariness and blind confidence of
"modern ideas," and still more under the whole of Christo-European
morality--suffers from an anguish with which no other is to be compared.
He sees at a glance all that could still BE MADE OUT OF MAN through
a favourable accumulation and augmentation of human powers and
arrangements; he knows with all the knowledge of his conviction how
unexhausted man still is for the greatest possibilities, and how often
in the past the type man has stood in presence of mysterious decisions
and new paths:--he knows still better from his painfulest recollections
on what wretched obstacles promising developments of the highest rank
have hitherto usually gone to pieces, broken down, sunk, and become
contemptible. The UNIVERSAL DEGENERACY OF MANKIND to the level of
the "man of the future"--as idealized by the socialistic fools and
shallow-pates--this degeneracy and dwarfing of man to an absolutely
gregarious animal (or as they call it, to a man of "free society"),
this brutalizing of man into a pigmy with equal rights and claims, is
undoubtedly POSSIBLE! He who has thought out this possibility to its
ultimate conclusion knows ANOTHER loathing unknown to the rest of
mankind--and perhaps also a new MISSION!



CHAPTER VI. WE SCHOLARS


204. At the risk that moralizing may also reveal itself here as that
which it has always been--namely, resolutely MONTRER SES PLAIES,
according to Balzac--I would venture to protest against an improper and
injurious alteration of rank, which quite unnoticed, and as if with the
best conscience, threatens nowadays to establish itself in the relations
of science and philosophy. I mean to say that one must have the right
out of one's own EXPERIENCE--experience, as it seems to me, always
implies unfortunate experience?--to treat of such an important question
of rank, so as not to speak of colour like the blind, or AGAINST science
like women and artists ("Ah! this dreadful science!" sigh their instinct
and their shame, "it always FINDS THINGS OUT!"). The declaration of
independence of the scientific man, his emancipation from philosophy,
is one of the subtler after-effects of democratic organization and
disorganization: the self-glorification and self-conceitedness of
the learned man is now everywhere in full bloom, and in its best
springtime--which does not mean to imply that in this case self-praise
smells sweet. Here also the instinct of the populace cries, "Freedom
from all masters!" and after science has, with the happiest results,
resisted theology, whose "hand-maid" it had been too long, it now
proposes in its wantonness and indiscretion to lay down laws for
philosophy, and in its turn to play the "master"--what am I saying!
to play the PHILOSOPHER on its own account. My memory--the memory of
a scientific man, if you please!--teems with the naivetes of insolence
which I have heard about philosophy and philosophers from young
naturalists and old physicians (not to mention the most cultured and
most conceited of all learned men, the philologists and schoolmasters,
who are both the one and the other by profession). On one occasion it
was the specialist and the Jack Horner who instinctively stood on the
defensive against all synthetic tasks and capabilities; at another time
it was the industrious worker who had got a scent of OTIUM and refined
luxuriousness in the internal economy of the philosopher, and felt
himself aggrieved and belittled thereby. On another occasion it was the
colour-blindness of the utilitarian, who sees nothing in philosophy but
a series of REFUTED systems, and an extravagant expenditure which "does
nobody any good". At another time the fear of disguised mysticism and of
the boundary-adjustment of knowledge became conspicuous, at another
time the disregard of individual philosophers, which had involuntarily
extended to disregard of philosophy generally. In fine, I found most
frequently, behind the proud disdain of philosophy in young scholars,
the evil after-effect of some particular philosopher, to whom on the
whole obedience had been foresworn, without, however, the spell of his
scornful estimates of other philosophers having been got rid of--the
result being a general ill-will to all philosophy. (Such seems to
me, for instance, the after-effect of Schopenhauer on the most modern
Germany: by his unintelligent rage against Hegel, he has succeeded in
severing the whole of the last generation of Germans from its connection
with German culture, which culture, all things considered, has been
an elevation and a divining refinement of the HISTORICAL SENSE, but
precisely at this point Schopenhauer himself was poor, irreceptive,
and un-German to the extent of ingeniousness.) On the whole, speaking
generally, it may just have been the humanness, all-too-humanness of the
modern philosophers themselves, in short, their contemptibleness, which
has injured most radically the reverence for philosophy and opened the
doors to the instinct of the populace. Let it but be acknowledged to
what an extent our modern world diverges from the whole style of the
world of Heraclitus, Plato, Empedocles, and whatever else all the royal
and magnificent anchorites of the spirit were called, and with what
justice an honest man of science MAY feel himself of a better family and
origin, in view of such representatives of philosophy, who, owing to
the fashion of the present day, are just as much aloft as they are down
below--in Germany, for instance, the two lions of Berlin, the anarchist
Eugen Duhring and the amalgamist Eduard von Hartmann. It is especially
the sight of those hotch-potch philosophers, who call themselves
"realists," or "positivists," which is calculated to implant a
dangerous distrust in the soul of a young and ambitious scholar those
philosophers, at the best, are themselves but scholars and specialists,
that is very evident! All of them are persons who have been vanquished
and BROUGHT BACK AGAIN under the dominion of science, who at one time
or another claimed more from themselves, without having a right to the
"more" and its responsibility--and who now, creditably, rancorously, and
vindictively, represent in word and deed, DISBELIEF in the master-task
and supremacy of philosophy After all, how could it be otherwise?
Science flourishes nowadays and has the good conscience clearly visible
on its countenance, while that to which the entire modern philosophy has
gradually sunk, the remnant of philosophy of the present day, excites
distrust and displeasure, if not scorn and pity Philosophy reduced to
a "theory of knowledge," no more in fact than a diffident science of
epochs and doctrine of forbearance a philosophy that never even
gets beyond the threshold, and rigorously DENIES itself the right
to enter--that is philosophy in its last throes, an end, an agony,
something that awakens pity. How could such a philosophy--RULE!

205. The dangers that beset the evolution of the philosopher are, in
fact, so manifold nowadays, that one might doubt whether this fruit
could still come to maturity. The extent and towering structure of the
sciences have increased enormously, and therewith also the probability
that the philosopher will grow tired even as a learner, or will attach
himself somewhere and "specialize" so that he will no longer attain to
his elevation, that is to say, to his superspection, his circumspection,
and his DESPECTION. Or he gets aloft too late, when the best of his
maturity and strength is past, or when he is impaired, coarsened, and
deteriorated, so that his view, his general estimate of things, is no
longer of much importance. It is perhaps just the refinement of his
intellectual conscience that makes him hesitate and linger on the
way, he dreads the temptation to become a dilettante, a millepede, a
milleantenna, he knows too well that as a discerner, one who has lost
his self-respect no longer commands, no longer LEADS, unless he should
aspire to become a great play-actor, a philosophical Cagliostro and
spiritual rat-catcher--in short, a misleader. This is in the last
instance a question of taste, if it has not really been a question of
conscience. To double once more the philosopher's difficulties, there is
also the fact that he demands from himself a verdict, a Yea or Nay, not
concerning science, but concerning life and the worth of life--he learns
unwillingly to believe that it is his right and even his duty to obtain
this verdict, and he has to seek his way to the right and the belief
only through the most extensive (perhaps disturbing and destroying)
experiences, often hesitating, doubting, and dumbfounded. In fact, the
philosopher has long been mistaken and confused by the multitude, either
with the scientific man and ideal scholar, or with the religiously
elevated, desensualized, desecularized visionary and God-intoxicated
man; and even yet when one hears anybody praised, because he lives
"wisely," or "as a philosopher," it hardly means anything more than
"prudently and apart." Wisdom: that seems to the populace to be a kind
of flight, a means and artifice for withdrawing successfully from a
bad game; but the GENUINE philosopher--does it not seem so to US,
my friends?--lives "unphilosophically" and "unwisely," above all,
IMPRUDENTLY, and feels the obligation and burden of a hundred attempts
and temptations of life--he risks HIMSELF constantly, he plays THIS bad
game.

206. In relation to the genius, that is to say, a being who either
ENGENDERS or PRODUCES--both words understood in their fullest sense--the
man of learning, the scientific average man, has always something of
the old maid about him; for, like her, he is not conversant with the two
principal functions of man. To both, of course, to the scholar and
to the old maid, one concedes respectability, as if by way of
indemnification--in these cases one emphasizes the respectability--and
yet, in the compulsion of this concession, one has the same admixture
of vexation. Let us examine more closely: what is the scientific man?
Firstly, a commonplace type of man, with commonplace virtues: that is
to say, a non-ruling, non-authoritative, and non-self-sufficient type
of man; he possesses industry, patient adaptableness to rank and file,
equability and moderation in capacity and requirement; he has the
instinct for people like himself, and for that which they require--for
instance: the portion of independence and green meadow without which
there is no rest from labour, the claim to honour and consideration
(which first and foremost presupposes recognition and recognisability),
the sunshine of a good name, the perpetual ratification of his value and
usefulness, with which the inward DISTRUST which lies at the bottom of
the heart of all dependent men and gregarious animals, has again and
again to be overcome. The learned man, as is appropriate, has also
maladies and faults of an ignoble kind: he is full of petty envy, and
has a lynx-eye for the weak points in those natures to whose elevations
he cannot attain. He is confiding, yet only as one who lets himself go,
but does not FLOW; and precisely before the man of the great current he
stands all the colder and more reserved--his eye is then like a smooth
and irresponsive lake, which is no longer moved by rapture or sympathy.
The worst and most dangerous thing of which a scholar is capable results
from the instinct of mediocrity of his type, from the Jesuitism of
mediocrity, which labours instinctively for the destruction of
the exceptional man, and endeavours to break--or still better, to
relax--every bent bow To relax, of course, with consideration, and
naturally with an indulgent hand--to RELAX with confiding sympathy
that is the real art of Jesuitism, which has always understood how to
introduce itself as the religion of sympathy.

207. However gratefully one may welcome the OBJECTIVE spirit--and
who has not been sick to death of all subjectivity and its confounded
IPSISIMOSITY!--in the end, however, one must learn caution even with
regard to one's gratitude, and put a stop to the exaggeration with
which the unselfing and depersonalizing of the spirit has recently been
celebrated, as if it were the goal in itself, as if it were salvation
and glorification--as is especially accustomed to happen in the
pessimist school, which has also in its turn good reasons for paying the
highest honours to "disinterested knowledge" The objective man, who no
longer curses and scolds like the pessimist, the IDEAL man of learning
in whom the scientific instinct blossoms forth fully after a thousand
complete and partial failures, is assuredly one of the most costly
instruments that exist, but his place is in the hand of one who is more
powerful He is only an instrument, we may say, he is a MIRROR--he is no
"purpose in himself" The objective man is in truth a mirror accustomed
to prostration before everything that wants to be known, with such
desires only as knowing or "reflecting" implies--he waits until
something comes, and then expands himself sensitively, so that even the
light footsteps and gliding-past of spiritual beings may not be lost on
his surface and film Whatever "personality" he still possesses seems to
him accidental, arbitrary, or still oftener, disturbing, so much has he
come to regard himself as the passage and reflection of outside forms
and events He calls up the recollection of "himself" with an effort,
and not infrequently wrongly, he readily confounds himself with other
persons, he makes mistakes with regard to his own needs, and here only
is he unrefined and negligent Perhaps he is troubled about the health,
or the pettiness and confined atmosphere of wife and friend, or the lack
of companions and society--indeed, he sets himself to reflect on his
suffering, but in vain! His thoughts already rove away to the MORE
GENERAL case, and tomorrow he knows as little as he knew yesterday how
to help himself He does not now take himself seriously and devote time
to himself he is serene, NOT from lack of trouble, but from lack
of capacity for grasping and dealing with HIS trouble The habitual
complaisance with respect to all objects and experiences, the radiant
and impartial hospitality with which he receives everything that
comes his way, his habit of inconsiderate good-nature, of dangerous
indifference as to Yea and Nay: alas! there are enough of cases in which
he has to atone for these virtues of his!--and as man generally, he
becomes far too easily the CAPUT MORTUUM of such virtues. Should one
wish love or hatred from him--I mean love and hatred as God, woman, and
animal understand them--he will do what he can, and furnish what he can.
But one must not be surprised if it should not be much--if he should
show himself just at this point to be false, fragile, questionable, and
deteriorated. His love is constrained, his hatred is artificial, and
rather UN TOUR DE FORCE, a slight ostentation and exaggeration. He is
only genuine so far as he can be objective; only in his serene totality
is he still "nature" and "natural." His mirroring and eternally
self-polishing soul no longer knows how to affirm, no longer how to
deny; he does not command; neither does he destroy. "JE NE MEPRISE
PRESQUE RIEN"--he says, with Leibniz: let us not overlook nor undervalue
the PRESQUE! Neither is he a model man; he does not go in advance of any
one, nor after, either; he places himself generally too far off to have
any reason for espousing the cause of either good or evil. If he has
been so long confounded with the PHILOSOPHER, with the Caesarian trainer
and dictator of civilization, he has had far too much honour, and what
is more essential in him has been overlooked--he is an instrument,
something of a slave, though certainly the sublimest sort of slave, but
nothing in himself--PRESQUE RIEN! The objective man is an instrument,
a costly, easily injured, easily tarnished measuring instrument and
mirroring apparatus, which is to be taken care of and respected; but he
is no goal, not outgoing nor upgoing, no complementary man in whom the
REST of existence justifies itself, no termination--and still less a
commencement, an engendering, or primary cause, nothing hardy, powerful,
self-centred, that wants to be master; but rather only a soft, inflated,
delicate, movable potter's-form, that must wait for some kind of content
and frame to "shape" itself thereto--for the most part a man without
frame and content, a "selfless" man. Consequently, also, nothing for
women, IN PARENTHESI.

208. When a philosopher nowadays makes known that he is not a skeptic--I
hope that has been gathered from the foregoing description of the
objective spirit?--people all hear it impatiently; they regard him on
that account with some apprehension, they would like to ask so many,
many questions... indeed among timid hearers, of whom there are now so
many, he is henceforth said to be dangerous. With his repudiation of
skepticism, it seems to them as if they heard some evil-threatening
sound in the distance, as if a new kind of explosive were being tried
somewhere, a dynamite of the spirit, perhaps a newly discovered Russian
NIHILINE, a pessimism BONAE VOLUNTATIS, that not only denies, means
denial, but--dreadful thought! PRACTISES denial. Against this kind of
"good-will"--a will to the veritable, actual negation of life--there is,
as is generally acknowledged nowadays, no better soporific and sedative
than skepticism, the mild, pleasing, lulling poppy of skepticism;
and Hamlet himself is now prescribed by the doctors of the day as an
antidote to the "spirit," and its underground noises. "Are not our ears
already full of bad sounds?" say the skeptics, as lovers of repose, and
almost as a kind of safety police; "this subterranean Nay is terrible!
Be still, ye pessimistic moles!" The skeptic, in effect, that delicate
creature, is far too easily frightened; his conscience is schooled so
as to start at every Nay, and even at that sharp, decided Yea, and feels
something like a bite thereby. Yea! and Nay!--they seem to him opposed
to morality; he loves, on the contrary, to make a festival to his virtue
by a noble aloofness, while perhaps he says with Montaigne: "What do I
know?" Or with Socrates: "I know that I know nothing." Or: "Here I do
not trust myself, no door is open to me." Or: "Even if the door were
open, why should I enter immediately?" Or: "What is the use of any hasty
hypotheses? It might quite well be in good taste to make no hypotheses
at all. Are you absolutely obliged to straighten at once what is
crooked? to stuff every hole with some kind of oakum? Is there not time
enough for that? Has not the time leisure? Oh, ye demons, can ye not
at all WAIT? The uncertain also has its charms, the Sphinx, too, is a
Circe, and Circe, too, was a philosopher."--Thus does a skeptic console
himself; and in truth he needs some consolation. For skepticism is
the most spiritual expression of a certain many-sided physiological
temperament, which in ordinary language is called nervous debility and
sickliness; it arises whenever races or classes which have been long
separated, decisively and suddenly blend with one another. In the new
generation, which has inherited as it were different standards and
valuations in its blood, everything is disquiet, derangement, doubt, and
tentativeness; the best powers operate restrictively, the very virtues
prevent each other growing and becoming strong, equilibrium, ballast,
and perpendicular stability are lacking in body and soul. That, however,
which is most diseased and degenerated in such nondescripts is the
WILL; they are no longer familiar with independence of decision, or
the courageous feeling of pleasure in willing--they are doubtful of the
"freedom of the will" even in their dreams Our present-day Europe,
the scene of a senseless, precipitate attempt at a radical blending of
classes, and CONSEQUENTLY of races, is therefore skeptical in all its
heights and depths, sometimes exhibiting the mobile skepticism which
springs impatiently and wantonly from branch to branch, sometimes with
gloomy aspect, like a cloud over-charged with interrogative signs--and
often sick unto death of its will! Paralysis of will, where do we not
find this cripple sitting nowadays! And yet how bedecked oftentimes' How
seductively ornamented! There are the finest gala dresses and disguises
for this disease, and that, for instance, most of what places itself
nowadays in the show-cases as "objectiveness," "the scientific spirit,"
"L'ART POUR L'ART," and "pure voluntary knowledge," is only decked-out
skepticism and paralysis of will--I am ready to answer for this
diagnosis of the European disease--The disease of the will is diffused
unequally over Europe, it is worst and most varied where civilization
has longest prevailed, it decreases according as "the barbarian"
still--or again--asserts his claims under the loose drapery of Western
culture It is therefore in the France of today, as can be readily
disclosed and comprehended, that the will is most infirm, and France,
which has always had a masterly aptitude for converting even the
portentous crises of its spirit into something charming and seductive,
now manifests emphatically its intellectual ascendancy over Europe,
by being the school and exhibition of all the charms of skepticism The
power to will and to persist, moreover, in a resolution, is already
somewhat stronger in Germany, and again in the North of Germany it
is stronger than in Central Germany, it is considerably stronger in
England, Spain, and Corsica, associated with phlegm in the former and
with hard skulls in the latter--not to mention Italy, which is too young
yet to know what it wants, and must first show whether it can exercise
will, but it is strongest and most surprising of all in that immense
middle empire where Europe as it were flows back to Asia--namely, in
Russia There the power to will has been long stored up and accumulated,
there the will--uncertain whether to be negative or affirmative--waits
threateningly to be discharged (to borrow their pet phrase from our
physicists) Perhaps not only Indian wars and complications in Asia would
be necessary to free Europe from its greatest danger, but also internal
subversion, the shattering of the empire into small states, and above
all the introduction of parliamentary imbecility, together with the
obligation of every one to read his newspaper at breakfast I do not
say this as one who desires it, in my heart I should rather prefer the
contrary--I mean such an increase in the threatening attitude of
Russia, that Europe would have to make up its mind to become equally
threatening--namely, TO ACQUIRE ONE WILL, by means of a new caste to
rule over the Continent, a persistent, dreadful will of its own, that
can set its aims thousands of years ahead; so that the long spun-out
comedy of its petty-statism, and its dynastic as well as its democratic
many-willed-ness, might finally be brought to a close. The time for
petty politics is past; the next century will bring the struggle for the
dominion of the world--the COMPULSION to great politics.

209. As to how far the new warlike age on which we Europeans have
evidently entered may perhaps favour the growth of another and stronger
kind of skepticism, I should like to express myself preliminarily
merely by a parable, which the lovers of German history will already
understand. That unscrupulous enthusiast for big, handsome grenadiers
(who, as King of Prussia, brought into being a military and skeptical
genius--and therewith, in reality, the new and now triumphantly emerged
type of German), the problematic, crazy father of Frederick the Great,
had on one point the very knack and lucky grasp of the genius: he knew
what was then lacking in Germany, the want of which was a hundred times
more alarming and serious than any lack of culture and social form--his
ill-will to the young Frederick resulted from the anxiety of a profound
instinct. MEN WERE LACKING; and he suspected, to his bitterest regret,
that his own son was not man enough. There, however, he deceived
himself; but who would not have deceived himself in his place? He saw
his son lapsed to atheism, to the ESPRIT, to the pleasant frivolity of
clever Frenchmen--he saw in the background the great bloodsucker, the
spider skepticism; he suspected the incurable wretchedness of a heart no
longer hard enough either for evil or good, and of a broken will that no
longer commands, is no longer ABLE to command. Meanwhile, however,
there grew up in his son that new kind of harder and more dangerous
skepticism--who knows TO WHAT EXTENT it was encouraged just by
his father's hatred and the icy melancholy of a will condemned to
solitude?--the skepticism of daring manliness, which is closely related
to the genius for war and conquest, and made its first entrance into
Germany in the person of the great Frederick. This skepticism despises
and nevertheless grasps; it undermines and takes possession; it does
not believe, but it does not thereby lose itself; it gives the spirit a
dangerous liberty, but it keeps strict guard over the heart. It is the
GERMAN form of skepticism, which, as a continued Fredericianism, risen
to the highest spirituality, has kept Europe for a considerable time
under the dominion of the German spirit and its critical and historical
distrust Owing to the insuperably strong and tough masculine character
of the great German philologists and historical critics (who,
rightly estimated, were also all of them artists of destruction
and dissolution), a NEW conception of the German spirit gradually
established itself--in spite of all Romanticism in music and
philosophy--in which the leaning towards masculine skepticism was
decidedly prominent whether, for instance, as fearlessness of gaze, as
courage and sternness of the dissecting hand, or as resolute will to
dangerous voyages of discovery, to spiritualized North Pole expeditions
under barren and dangerous skies. There may be good grounds for it when
warm-blooded and superficial humanitarians cross themselves before this
spirit, CET ESPRIT FATALISTE, IRONIQUE, MEPHISTOPHELIQUE, as Michelet
calls it, not without a shudder. But if one would realize how
characteristic is this fear of the "man" in the German spirit which
awakened Europe out of its "dogmatic slumber," let us call to mind the
former conception which had to be overcome by this new one--and that
it is not so very long ago that a masculinized woman could dare, with
unbridled presumption, to recommend the Germans to the interest of
Europe as gentle, good-hearted, weak-willed, and poetical fools.
Finally, let us only understand profoundly enough Napoleon's
astonishment when he saw Goethe it reveals what had been regarded for
centuries as the "German spirit" "VOILA UN HOMME!"--that was as much as
to say "But this is a MAN! And I only expected to see a German!"

210. Supposing, then, that in the picture of the philosophers of the
future, some trait suggests the question whether they must not perhaps
be skeptics in the last-mentioned sense, something in them would only be
designated thereby--and not they themselves. With equal right they might
call themselves critics, and assuredly they will be men of experiments.
By the name with which I ventured to baptize them, I have already
expressly emphasized their attempting and their love of attempting is
this because, as critics in body and soul, they will love to make use
of experiments in a new, and perhaps wider and more dangerous sense? In
their passion for knowledge, will they have to go further in daring and
painful attempts than the sensitive and pampered taste of a democratic
century can approve of?--There is no doubt these coming ones will be
least able to dispense with the serious and not unscrupulous qualities
which distinguish the critic from the skeptic I mean the certainty as to
standards of worth, the conscious employment of a unity of method,
the wary courage, the standing-alone, and the capacity for
self-responsibility, indeed, they will avow among themselves a DELIGHT
in denial and dissection, and a certain considerate cruelty, which knows
how to handle the knife surely and deftly, even when the heart bleeds
They will be STERNER (and perhaps not always towards themselves only)
than humane people may desire, they will not deal with the "truth" in
order that it may "please" them, or "elevate" and "inspire" them--they
will rather have little faith in "TRUTH" bringing with it such revels
for the feelings. They will smile, those rigorous spirits, when any one
says in their presence "That thought elevates me, why should it not be
true?" or "That work enchants me, why should it not be beautiful?" or
"That artist enlarges me, why should he not be great?" Perhaps they
will not only have a smile, but a genuine disgust for all that is thus
rapturous, idealistic, feminine, and hermaphroditic, and if any one
could look into their inmost hearts, he would not easily find therein
the intention to reconcile "Christian sentiments" with "antique taste,"
or even with "modern parliamentarism" (the kind of reconciliation
necessarily found even among philosophers in our very uncertain and
consequently very conciliatory century). Critical discipline, and every
habit that conduces to purity and rigour in intellectual matters,
will not only be demanded from themselves by these philosophers of
the future, they may even make a display thereof as their special
adornment--nevertheless they will not want to be called critics on that
account. It will seem to them no small indignity to philosophy to
have it decreed, as is so welcome nowadays, that "philosophy itself is
criticism and critical science--and nothing else whatever!" Though this
estimate of philosophy may enjoy the approval of all the Positivists of
France and Germany (and possibly it even flattered the heart and taste
of KANT: let us call to mind the titles of his principal works), our new
philosophers will say, notwithstanding, that critics are instruments of
the philosopher, and just on that account, as instruments, they are
far from being philosophers themselves! Even the great Chinaman of
Konigsberg was only a great critic.

211. I insist upon it that people finally cease confounding
philosophical workers, and in general scientific men, with
philosophers--that precisely here one should strictly give "each his
own," and not give those far too much, these far too little. It may
be necessary for the education of the real philosopher that he himself
should have once stood upon all those steps upon which his servants,
the scientific workers of philosophy, remain standing, and MUST remain
standing he himself must perhaps have been critic, and dogmatist,
and historian, and besides, poet, and collector, and traveler, and
riddle-reader, and moralist, and seer, and "free spirit," and almost
everything, in order to traverse the whole range of human values
and estimations, and that he may BE ABLE with a variety of eyes and
consciences to look from a height to any distance, from a depth up
to any height, from a nook into any expanse. But all these are only
preliminary conditions for his task; this task itself demands something
else--it requires him TO CREATE VALUES. The philosophical workers, after
the excellent pattern of Kant and Hegel, have to fix and formalize some
great existing body of valuations--that is to say, former DETERMINATIONS
OF VALUE, creations of value, which have become prevalent, and are for
a time called "truths"--whether in the domain of the LOGICAL, the
POLITICAL (moral), or the ARTISTIC. It is for these investigators to
make whatever has happened and been esteemed hitherto, conspicuous,
conceivable, intelligible, and manageable, to shorten everything long,
even "time" itself, and to SUBJUGATE the entire past: an immense and
wonderful task, in the carrying out of which all refined pride, all
tenacious will, can surely find satisfaction. THE REAL PHILOSOPHERS,
HOWEVER, ARE COMMANDERS AND LAW-GIVERS; they say: "Thus SHALL it be!"
They determine first the Whither and the Why of mankind, and thereby
set aside the previous labour of all philosophical workers, and all
subjugators of the past--they grasp at the future with a creative
hand, and whatever is and was, becomes for them thereby a means, an
instrument, and a hammer. Their "knowing" is CREATING, their creating
is a law-giving, their will to truth is--WILL TO POWER.--Are there at
present such philosophers? Have there ever been such philosophers? MUST
there not be such philosophers some day? ...

212. It is always more obvious to me that the philosopher, as a man
INDISPENSABLE for the morrow and the day after the morrow, has ever
found himself, and HAS BEEN OBLIGED to find himself, in contradiction
to the day in which he lives; his enemy has always been the ideal of his
day. Hitherto all those extraordinary furtherers of humanity whom one
calls philosophers--who rarely regarded themselves as lovers of wisdom,
but rather as disagreeable fools and dangerous interrogators--have found
their mission, their hard, involuntary, imperative mission (in the end,
however, the greatness of their mission), in being the bad conscience of
their age. In putting the vivisector's knife to the breast of the very
VIRTUES OF THEIR AGE, they have betrayed their own secret; it has been
for the sake of a NEW greatness of man, a new untrodden path to
his aggrandizement. They have always disclosed how much hypocrisy,
indolence, self-indulgence, and self-neglect, how much falsehood was
concealed under the most venerated types of contemporary morality, how
much virtue was OUTLIVED, they have always said "We must remove hence to
where YOU are least at home" In the face of a world of "modern ideas,"
which would like to confine every one in a corner, in a "specialty," a
philosopher, if there could be philosophers nowadays, would be compelled
to place the greatness of man, the conception of "greatness," precisely
in his comprehensiveness and multifariousness, in his all-roundness, he
would even determine worth and rank according to the amount and variety
of that which a man could bear and take upon himself, according to the
EXTENT to which a man could stretch his responsibility Nowadays the
taste and virtue of the age weaken and attenuate the will, nothing is
so adapted to the spirit of the age as weakness of will consequently, in
the ideal of the philosopher, strength of will, sternness, and capacity
for prolonged resolution, must specially be included in the conception
of "greatness", with as good a right as the opposite doctrine, with its
ideal of a silly, renouncing, humble, selfless humanity, was suited to
an opposite age--such as the sixteenth century, which suffered from its
accumulated energy of will, and from the wildest torrents and floods
of selfishness In the time of Socrates, among men only of worn-out
instincts, old conservative Athenians who let themselves go--"for the
sake of happiness," as they said, for the sake of pleasure, as their
conduct indicated--and who had continually on their lips the old pompous
words to which they had long forfeited the right by the life they led,
IRONY was perhaps necessary for greatness of soul, the wicked Socratic
assurance of the old physician and plebeian, who cut ruthlessly into his
own flesh, as into the flesh and heart of the "noble," with a look that
said plainly enough "Do not dissemble before me! here--we are equal!"
At present, on the contrary, when throughout Europe the herding-animal
alone attains to honours, and dispenses honours, when "equality of
right" can too readily be transformed into equality in wrong--I mean to
say into general war against everything rare, strange, and privileged,
against the higher man, the higher soul, the higher duty, the higher
responsibility, the creative plenipotence and lordliness--at present
it belongs to the conception of "greatness" to be noble, to wish to be
apart, to be capable of being different, to stand alone, to have to live
by personal initiative, and the philosopher will betray something of his
own ideal when he asserts "He shall be the greatest who can be the most
solitary, the most concealed, the most divergent, the man beyond good
and evil, the master of his virtues, and of super-abundance of will;
precisely this shall be called GREATNESS: as diversified as can be
entire, as ample as can be full." And to ask once more the question: Is
greatness POSSIBLE--nowadays?

213. It is difficult to learn what a philosopher is, because it cannot
be taught: one must "know" it by experience--or one should have the
pride NOT to know it. The fact that at present people all talk of things
of which they CANNOT have any experience, is true more especially
and unfortunately as concerns the philosopher and philosophical
matters:--the very few know them, are permitted to know them, and
all popular ideas about them are false. Thus, for instance, the truly
philosophical combination of a bold, exuberant spirituality which runs
at presto pace, and a dialectic rigour and necessity which makes no
false step, is unknown to most thinkers and scholars from their own
experience, and therefore, should any one speak of it in their
presence, it is incredible to them. They conceive of every necessity as
troublesome, as a painful compulsory obedience and state of constraint;
thinking itself is regarded by them as something slow and hesitating,
almost as a trouble, and often enough as "worthy of the SWEAT of the
noble"--but not at all as something easy and divine, closely related
to dancing and exuberance! "To think" and to take a matter "seriously,"
"arduously"--that is one and the same thing to them; such only has been
their "experience."--Artists have here perhaps a finer intuition; they
who know only too well that precisely when they no longer do anything
"arbitrarily," and everything of necessity, their feeling of freedom,
of subtlety, of power, of creatively fixing, disposing, and shaping,
reaches its climax--in short, that necessity and "freedom of will" are
then the same thing with them. There is, in fine, a gradation of rank
in psychical states, to which the gradation of rank in the problems
corresponds; and the highest problems repel ruthlessly every one who
ventures too near them, without being predestined for their solution
by the loftiness and power of his spirituality. Of what use is it for
nimble, everyday intellects, or clumsy, honest mechanics and empiricists
to press, in their plebeian ambition, close to such problems, and as
it were into this "holy of holies"--as so often happens nowadays! But
coarse feet must never tread upon such carpets: this is provided for in
the primary law of things; the doors remain closed to those intruders,
though they may dash and break their heads thereon. People have always
to be born to a high station, or, more definitely, they have to be BRED
for it: a person has only a right to philosophy--taking the word in
its higher significance--in virtue of his descent; the ancestors, the
"blood," decide here also. Many generations must have prepared the way
for the coming of the philosopher; each of his virtues must have been
separately acquired, nurtured, transmitted, and embodied; not only the
bold, easy, delicate course and current of his thoughts, but above all
the readiness for great responsibilities, the majesty of ruling glance
and contemning look, the feeling of separation from the multitude with
their duties and virtues, the kindly patronage and defense of whatever
is misunderstood and calumniated, be it God or devil, the delight and
practice of supreme justice, the art of commanding, the amplitude of
will, the lingering eye which rarely admires, rarely looks up, rarely
loves....



CHAPTER VII. OUR VIRTUES


214. OUR Virtues?--It is probable that we, too, have still our virtues,
although naturally they are not those sincere and massive virtues on
account of which we hold our grandfathers in esteem and also at a little
distance from us. We Europeans of the day after tomorrow, we firstlings
of the twentieth century--with all our dangerous curiosity, our
multifariousness and art of disguising, our mellow and seemingly
sweetened cruelty in sense and spirit--we shall presumably, IF we must
have virtues, have those only which have come to agreement with our most
secret and heartfelt inclinations, with our most ardent requirements:
well, then, let us look for them in our labyrinths!--where, as we know,
so many things lose themselves, so many things get quite lost! And is
there anything finer than to SEARCH for one's own virtues? Is it not
almost to BELIEVE in one's own virtues? But this "believing in one's
own virtues"--is it not practically the same as what was formerly called
one's "good conscience," that long, respectable pigtail of an idea,
which our grandfathers used to hang behind their heads, and often enough
also behind their understandings? It seems, therefore, that however
little we may imagine ourselves to be old-fashioned and grandfatherly
respectable in other respects, in one thing we are nevertheless the
worthy grandchildren of our grandfathers, we last Europeans with good
consciences: we also still wear their pigtail.--Ah! if you only knew how
soon, so very soon--it will be different!

215. As in the stellar firmament there are sometimes two suns which
determine the path of one planet, and in certain cases suns of different
colours shine around a single planet, now with red light, now with
green, and then simultaneously illumine and flood it with motley
colours: so we modern men, owing to the complicated mechanism of our
"firmament," are determined by DIFFERENT moralities; our actions shine
alternately in different colours, and are seldom unequivocal--and there
are often cases, also, in which our actions are MOTLEY-COLOURED.

216. To love one's enemies? I think that has been well learnt: it takes
place thousands of times at present on a large and small scale; indeed,
at times the higher and sublimer thing takes place:--we learn to DESPISE
when we love, and precisely when we love best; all of it, however,
unconsciously, without noise, without ostentation, with the shame and
secrecy of goodness, which forbids the utterance of the pompous word
and the formula of virtue. Morality as attitude--is opposed to our taste
nowadays. This is ALSO an advance, as it was an advance in our fathers
that religion as an attitude finally became opposed to their taste,
including the enmity and Voltairean bitterness against religion (and all
that formerly belonged to freethinker-pantomime). It is the music in our
conscience, the dance in our spirit, to which Puritan litanies, moral
sermons, and goody-goodness won't chime.

217. Let us be careful in dealing with those who attach great importance
to being credited with moral tact and subtlety in moral discernment!
They never forgive us if they have once made a mistake BEFORE us
(or even with REGARD to us)--they inevitably become our instinctive
calumniators and detractors, even when they still remain our
"friends."--Blessed are the forgetful: for they "get the better" even of
their blunders.

218. The psychologists of France--and where else are there still
psychologists nowadays?--have never yet exhausted their bitter and
manifold enjoyment of the betise bourgeoise, just as though... in
short, they betray something thereby. Flaubert, for instance, the honest
citizen of Rouen, neither saw, heard, nor tasted anything else in the
end; it was his mode of self-torment and refined cruelty. As this is
growing wearisome, I would now recommend for a change something else
for a pleasure--namely, the unconscious astuteness with which good, fat,
honest mediocrity always behaves towards loftier spirits and the tasks
they have to perform, the subtle, barbed, Jesuitical astuteness, which
is a thousand times subtler than the taste and understanding of the
middle-class in its best moments--subtler even than the understanding of
its victims:--a repeated proof that "instinct" is the most intelligent
of all kinds of intelligence which have hitherto been discovered. In
short, you psychologists, study the philosophy of the "rule" in its
struggle with the "exception": there you have a spectacle fit for Gods
and godlike malignity! Or, in plainer words, practise vivisection on
"good people," on the "homo bonae voluntatis," ON YOURSELVES!

219. The practice of judging and condemning morally, is the favourite
revenge of the intellectually shallow on those who are less so, it is
also a kind of indemnity for their being badly endowed by nature,
and finally, it is an opportunity for acquiring spirit and BECOMING
subtle--malice spiritualises. They are glad in their inmost heart that
there is a standard according to which those who are over-endowed with
intellectual goods and privileges, are equal to them, they contend for
the "equality of all before God," and almost NEED the belief in God for
this purpose. It is among them that the most powerful antagonists of
atheism are found. If any one were to say to them "A lofty spirituality
is beyond all comparison with the honesty and respectability of a merely
moral man"--it would make them furious, I shall take care not to say
so. I would rather flatter them with my theory that lofty spirituality
itself exists only as the ultimate product of moral qualities, that it
is a synthesis of all qualities attributed to the "merely moral" man,
after they have been acquired singly through long training and practice,
perhaps during a whole series of generations, that lofty spirituality
is precisely the spiritualising of justice, and the beneficent severity
which knows that it is authorized to maintain GRADATIONS OF RANK in the
world, even among things--and not only among men.

220. Now that the praise of the "disinterested person" is so popular
one must--probably not without some danger--get an idea of WHAT people
actually take an interest in, and what are the things generally which
fundamentally and profoundly concern ordinary men--including the
cultured, even the learned, and perhaps philosophers also, if
appearances do not deceive. The fact thereby becomes obvious that the
greater part of what interests and charms higher natures, and more
refined and fastidious tastes, seems absolutely "uninteresting" to
the average man--if, notwithstanding, he perceive devotion to these
interests, he calls it desinteresse, and wonders how it is possible to
act "disinterestedly." There have been philosophers who could give this
popular astonishment a seductive and mystical, other-worldly expression
(perhaps because they did not know the higher nature by experience?),
instead of stating the naked and candidly reasonable truth that
"disinterested" action is very interesting and "interested" action,
provided that... "And love?"--What! Even an action for love's sake
shall be "unegoistic"? But you fools--! "And the praise of the
self-sacrificer?"--But whoever has really offered sacrifice knows that
he wanted and obtained something for it--perhaps something from himself
for something from himself; that he relinquished here in order to have
more there, perhaps in general to be more, or even feel himself "more."
But this is a realm of questions and answers in which a more fastidious
spirit does not like to stay: for here truth has to stifle her yawns so
much when she is obliged to answer. And after all, truth is a woman; one
must not use force with her.

221. "It sometimes happens," said a moralistic pedant and
trifle-retailer, "that I honour and respect an unselfish man: not,
however, because he is unselfish, but because I think he has a right to
be useful to another man at his own expense. In short, the question
is always who HE is, and who THE OTHER is. For instance, in a person
created and destined for command, self-denial and modest retirement,
instead of being virtues, would be the waste of virtues: so it seems
to me. Every system of unegoistic morality which takes itself
unconditionally and appeals to every one, not only sins against good
taste, but is also an incentive to sins of omission, an ADDITIONAL
seduction under the mask of philanthropy--and precisely a seduction and
injury to the higher, rarer, and more privileged types of men. Moral
systems must be compelled first of all to bow before the GRADATIONS OF
RANK; their presumption must be driven home to their conscience--until
they thoroughly understand at last that it is IMMORAL to say that 'what
is right for one is proper for another.'"--So said my moralistic pedant
and bonhomme. Did he perhaps deserve to be laughed at when he thus
exhorted systems of morals to practise morality? But one should not be
too much in the right if one wishes to have the laughers on ONE'S OWN
side; a grain of wrong pertains even to good taste.

222. Wherever sympathy (fellow-suffering) is preached nowadays--and,
if I gather rightly, no other religion is any longer preached--let the
psychologist have his ears open through all the vanity, through all the
noise which is natural to these preachers (as to all preachers), he will
hear a hoarse, groaning, genuine note of SELF-CONTEMPT. It belongs
to the overshadowing and uglifying of Europe, which has been on
the increase for a century (the first symptoms of which are already
specified documentarily in a thoughtful letter of Galiani to Madame
d'Epinay)--IF IT IS NOT REALLY THE CAUSE THEREOF! The man of
"modern ideas," the conceited ape, is excessively dissatisfied with
himself--this is perfectly certain. He suffers, and his vanity wants him
only "to suffer with his fellows."

223. The hybrid European--a tolerably ugly plebeian, taken all in
all--absolutely requires a costume: he needs history as a storeroom
of costumes. To be sure, he notices that none of the costumes fit him
properly--he changes and changes. Let us look at the nineteenth century
with respect to these hasty preferences and changes in its masquerades
of style, and also with respect to its moments of desperation on account
of "nothing suiting" us. It is in vain to get ourselves up as romantic,
or classical, or Christian, or Florentine, or barocco, or "national,"
in moribus et artibus: it does not "clothe us"! But the "spirit,"
especially the "historical spirit," profits even by this desperation:
once and again a new sample of the past or of the foreign is tested,
put on, taken off, packed up, and above all studied--we are the first
studious age in puncto of "costumes," I mean as concerns morals,
articles of belief, artistic tastes, and religions; we are prepared as
no other age has ever been for a carnival in the grand style, for the
most spiritual festival--laughter and arrogance, for the transcendental
height of supreme folly and Aristophanic ridicule of the world. Perhaps
we are still discovering the domain of our invention just here, the
domain where even we can still be original, probably as parodists of
the world's history and as God's Merry-Andrews,--perhaps, though nothing
else of the present have a future, our laughter itself may have a
future!

224. The historical sense (or the capacity for divining quickly
the order of rank of the valuations according to which a people, a
community, or an individual has lived, the "divining instinct" for the
relationships of these valuations, for the relation of the authority
of the valuations to the authority of the operating forces),--this
historical sense, which we Europeans claim as our specialty, has come
to us in the train of the enchanting and mad semi-barbarity into which
Europe has been plunged by the democratic mingling of classes and
races--it is only the nineteenth century that has recognized this
faculty as its sixth sense. Owing to this mingling, the past of every
form and mode of life, and of cultures which were formerly closely
contiguous and superimposed on one another, flows forth into us "modern
souls"; our instincts now run back in all directions, we ourselves are
a kind of chaos: in the end, as we have said, the spirit perceives its
advantage therein. By means of our semi-barbarity in body and in desire,
we have secret access everywhere, such as a noble age never had; we have
access above all to the labyrinth of imperfect civilizations, and to
every form of semi-barbarity that has at any time existed on earth; and
in so far as the most considerable part of human civilization hitherto
has just been semi-barbarity, the "historical sense" implies almost the
sense and instinct for everything, the taste and tongue for everything:
whereby it immediately proves itself to be an IGNOBLE sense. For
instance, we enjoy Homer once more: it is perhaps our happiest
acquisition that we know how to appreciate Homer, whom men of
distinguished culture (as the French of the seventeenth century, like
Saint-Evremond, who reproached him for his ESPRIT VASTE, and even
Voltaire, the last echo of the century) cannot and could not so easily
appropriate--whom they scarcely permitted themselves to enjoy. The very
decided Yea and Nay of their palate, their promptly ready disgust, their
hesitating reluctance with regard to everything strange, their horror of
the bad taste even of lively curiosity, and in general the averseness of
every distinguished and self-sufficing culture to avow a new desire,
a dissatisfaction with its own condition, or an admiration of what is
strange: all this determines and disposes them unfavourably even towards
the best things of the world which are not their property or could not
become their prey--and no faculty is more unintelligible to such men
than just this historical sense, with its truckling, plebeian
curiosity. The case is not different with Shakespeare, that marvelous
Spanish-Moorish-Saxon synthesis of taste, over whom an ancient Athenian
of the circle of AEschylus would have half-killed himself with laughter
or irritation: but we--accept precisely this wild motleyness, this
medley of the most delicate, the most coarse, and the most artificial,
with a secret confidence and cordiality; we enjoy it as a refinement
of art reserved expressly for us, and allow ourselves to be as little
disturbed by the repulsive fumes and the proximity of the English
populace in which Shakespeare's art and taste lives, as perhaps on
the Chiaja of Naples, where, with all our senses awake, we go our way,
enchanted and voluntarily, in spite of the drain-odour of the lower
quarters of the town. That as men of the "historical sense" we have
our virtues, is not to be disputed:--we are unpretentious, unselfish,
modest, brave, habituated to self-control and self-renunciation, very
grateful, very patient, very complaisant--but with all this we are
perhaps not very "tasteful." Let us finally confess it, that what is
most difficult for us men of the "historical sense" to grasp, feel,
taste, and love, what finds us fundamentally prejudiced and almost
hostile, is precisely the perfection and ultimate maturity in every
culture and art, the essentially noble in works and men, their moment
of smooth sea and halcyon self-sufficiency, the goldenness and coldness
which all things show that have perfected themselves. Perhaps our great
virtue of the historical sense is in necessary contrast to GOOD taste,
at least to the very bad taste; and we can only evoke in ourselves
imperfectly, hesitatingly, and with compulsion the small, short, and
happy godsends and glorifications of human life as they shine here and
there: those moments and marvelous experiences when a great power has
voluntarily come to a halt before the boundless and infinite,--when a
super-abundance of refined delight has been enjoyed by a sudden checking
and petrifying, by standing firmly and planting oneself fixedly on still
trembling ground. PROPORTIONATENESS is strange to us, let us confess it
to ourselves; our itching is really the itching for the infinite, the
immeasurable. Like the rider on his forward panting horse, we let the
reins fall before the infinite, we modern men, we semi-barbarians--and
are only in OUR highest bliss when we--ARE IN MOST DANGER.

225. Whether it be hedonism, pessimism, utilitarianism, or eudaemonism,
all those modes of thinking which measure the worth of things according
to PLEASURE and PAIN, that is, according to accompanying circumstances
and secondary considerations, are plausible modes of thought and
naivetes, which every one conscious of CREATIVE powers and an artist's
conscience will look down upon with scorn, though not without sympathy.
Sympathy for you!--to be sure, that is not sympathy as you understand
it: it is not sympathy for social "distress," for "society" with its
sick and misfortuned, for the hereditarily vicious and defective who lie
on the ground around us; still less is it sympathy for the grumbling,
vexed, revolutionary slave-classes who strive after power--they call it
"freedom." OUR sympathy is a loftier and further-sighted sympathy:--we
see how MAN dwarfs himself, how YOU dwarf him! and there are moments
when we view YOUR sympathy with an indescribable anguish, when we resist
it,--when we regard your seriousness as more dangerous than any kind
of levity. You want, if possible--and there is not a more foolish "if
possible"--TO DO AWAY WITH SUFFERING; and we?--it really seems that WE
would rather have it increased and made worse than it has ever been!
Well-being, as you understand it--is certainly not a goal; it seems
to us an END; a condition which at once renders man ludicrous and
contemptible--and makes his destruction DESIRABLE! The discipline
of suffering, of GREAT suffering--know ye not that it is only THIS
discipline that has produced all the elevations of humanity hitherto?
The tension of soul in misfortune which communicates to it its energy,
its shuddering in view of rack and ruin, its inventiveness and bravery
in undergoing, enduring, interpreting, and exploiting misfortune, and
whatever depth, mystery, disguise, spirit, artifice, or greatness has
been bestowed upon the soul--has it not been bestowed through suffering,
through the discipline of great suffering? In man CREATURE and CREATOR
are united: in man there is not only matter, shred, excess, clay, mire,
folly, chaos; but there is also the creator, the sculptor, the hardness
of the hammer, the divinity of the spectator, and the seventh day--do
ye understand this contrast? And that YOUR sympathy for the "creature
in man" applies to that which has to be fashioned, bruised, forged,
stretched, roasted, annealed, refined--to that which must necessarily
SUFFER, and IS MEANT to suffer? And our sympathy--do ye not understand
what our REVERSE sympathy applies to, when it resists your sympathy as
the worst of all pampering and enervation?--So it is sympathy AGAINST
sympathy!--But to repeat it once more, there are higher problems than
the problems of pleasure and pain and sympathy; and all systems of
philosophy which deal only with these are naivetes.

226. WE IMMORALISTS.--This world with which WE are concerned, in which
we have to fear and love, this almost invisible, inaudible world of
delicate command and delicate obedience, a world of "almost" in every
respect, captious, insidious, sharp, and tender--yes, it is well
protected from clumsy spectators and familiar curiosity! We are
woven into a strong net and garment of duties, and CANNOT disengage
ourselves--precisely here, we are "men of duty," even we! Occasionally,
it is true, we dance in our "chains" and betwixt our "swords"; it
is none the less true that more often we gnash our teeth under the
circumstances, and are impatient at the secret hardship of our lot. But
do what we will, fools and appearances say of us: "These are men WITHOUT
duty,"--we have always fools and appearances against us!

227. Honesty, granting that it is the virtue of which we cannot rid
ourselves, we free spirits--well, we will labour at it with all our
perversity and love, and not tire of "perfecting" ourselves in OUR
virtue, which alone remains: may its glance some day overspread like
a gilded, blue, mocking twilight this aging civilization with its dull
gloomy seriousness! And if, nevertheless, our honesty should one day
grow weary, and sigh, and stretch its limbs, and find us too hard, and
would fain have it pleasanter, easier, and gentler, like an agreeable
vice, let us remain HARD, we latest Stoics, and let us send to its
help whatever devilry we have in us:--our disgust at the clumsy
and undefined, our "NITIMUR IN VETITUM," our love of adventure,
our sharpened and fastidious curiosity, our most subtle, disguised,
intellectual Will to Power and universal conquest, which rambles and
roves avidiously around all the realms of the future--let us go with all
our "devils" to the help of our "God"! It is probable that people will
misunderstand and mistake us on that account: what does it matter! They
will say: "Their 'honesty'--that is their devilry, and nothing else!"
What does it matter! And even if they were right--have not all Gods
hitherto been such sanctified, re-baptized devils? And after all, what
do we know of ourselves? And what the spirit that leads us wants TO BE
CALLED? (It is a question of names.) And how many spirits we harbour?
Our honesty, we free spirits--let us be careful lest it become our
vanity, our ornament and ostentation, our limitation, our stupidity!
Every virtue inclines to stupidity, every stupidity to virtue; "stupid
to the point of sanctity," they say in Russia,--let us be careful lest
out of pure honesty we eventually become saints and bores! Is not life
a hundred times too short for us--to bore ourselves? One would have to
believe in eternal life in order to...

228. I hope to be forgiven for discovering that all moral philosophy
hitherto has been tedious and has belonged to the soporific
appliances--and that "virtue," in my opinion, has been MORE injured
by the TEDIOUSNESS of its advocates than by anything else; at the same
time, however, I would not wish to overlook their general usefulness. It
is desirable that as few people as possible should reflect upon morals,
and consequently it is very desirable that morals should not some day
become interesting! But let us not be afraid! Things still remain today
as they have always been: I see no one in Europe who has (or DISCLOSES)
an idea of the fact that philosophizing concerning morals might be
conducted in a dangerous, captious, and ensnaring manner--that CALAMITY
might be involved therein. Observe, for example, the indefatigable,
inevitable English utilitarians: how ponderously and respectably they
stalk on, stalk along (a Homeric metaphor expresses it better) in the
footsteps of Bentham, just as he had already stalked in the footsteps of
the respectable Helvetius! (no, he was not a dangerous man, Helvetius,
CE SENATEUR POCOCURANTE, to use an expression of Galiani). No new
thought, nothing of the nature of a finer turning or better expression
of an old thought, not even a proper history of what has been previously
thought on the subject: an IMPOSSIBLE literature, taking it all in all,
unless one knows how to leaven it with some mischief. In effect, the
old English vice called CANT, which is MORAL TARTUFFISM, has insinuated
itself also into these moralists (whom one must certainly read with an
eye to their motives if one MUST read them), concealed this time under
the new form of the scientific spirit; moreover, there is not absent
from them a secret struggle with the pangs of conscience, from which a
race of former Puritans must naturally suffer, in all their scientific
tinkering with morals. (Is not a moralist the opposite of a Puritan?
That is to say, as a thinker who regards morality as questionable,
as worthy of interrogation, in short, as a problem? Is moralizing
not-immoral?) In the end, they all want English morality to be
recognized as authoritative, inasmuch as mankind, or the "general
utility," or "the happiness of the greatest number,"--no! the happiness
of ENGLAND, will be best served thereby. They would like, by all means,
to convince themselves that the striving after English happiness, I
mean after COMFORT and FASHION (and in the highest instance, a seat in
Parliament), is at the same time the true path of virtue; in fact, that
in so far as there has been virtue in the world hitherto, it has
just consisted in such striving. Not one of those ponderous,
conscience-stricken herding-animals (who undertake to advocate the
cause of egoism as conducive to the general welfare) wants to have
any knowledge or inkling of the facts that the "general welfare" is
no ideal, no goal, no notion that can be at all grasped, but is only a
nostrum,--that what is fair to one MAY NOT at all be fair to another,
that the requirement of one morality for all is really a detriment to
higher men, in short, that there is a DISTINCTION OF RANK between man
and man, and consequently between morality and morality. They are an
unassuming and fundamentally mediocre species of men, these utilitarian
Englishmen, and, as already remarked, in so far as they are tedious, one
cannot think highly enough of their utility. One ought even to ENCOURAGE
them, as has been partially attempted in the following rhymes:--

    Hail, ye worthies, barrow-wheeling,
    "Longer--better," aye revealing,

    Stiffer aye in head and knee;
    Unenraptured, never jesting,
    Mediocre everlasting,

    SANS GENIE ET SANS ESPRIT!


229. In these later ages, which may be proud of their humanity, there
still remains so much fear, so much SUPERSTITION of the fear, of the
"cruel wild beast," the mastering of which constitutes the very pride of
these humaner ages--that even obvious truths, as if by the agreement
of centuries, have long remained unuttered, because they have the
appearance of helping the finally slain wild beast back to life again.
I perhaps risk something when I allow such a truth to escape; let
others capture it again and give it so much "milk of pious sentiment"
[FOOTNOTE: An expression from Schiller's William Tell, Act IV, Scene
3.] to drink, that it will lie down quiet and forgotten, in its old
corner.--One ought to learn anew about cruelty, and open one's eyes;
one ought at last to learn impatience, in order that such immodest
gross errors--as, for instance, have been fostered by ancient and
modern philosophers with regard to tragedy--may no longer wander about
virtuously and boldly. Almost everything that we call "higher culture"
is based upon the spiritualising and intensifying of CRUELTY--this is
my thesis; the "wild beast" has not been slain at all, it lives, it
flourishes, it has only been--transfigured. That which constitutes the
painful delight of tragedy is cruelty; that which operates agreeably in
so-called tragic sympathy, and at the basis even of everything sublime,
up to the highest and most delicate thrills of metaphysics, obtains its
sweetness solely from the intermingled ingredient of cruelty. What the
Roman enjoys in the arena, the Christian in the ecstasies of the cross,
the Spaniard at the sight of the faggot and stake, or of the bull-fight,
the present-day Japanese who presses his way to the tragedy, the workman
of the Parisian suburbs who has a homesickness for bloody revolutions,
the Wagnerienne who, with unhinged will, "undergoes" the performance of
"Tristan and Isolde"--what all these enjoy, and strive with mysterious
ardour to drink in, is the philtre of the great Circe "cruelty." Here,
to be sure, we must put aside entirely the blundering psychology of
former times, which could only teach with regard to cruelty that
it originated at the sight of the suffering of OTHERS: there is an
abundant, super-abundant enjoyment even in one's own suffering, in
causing one's own suffering--and wherever man has allowed himself to be
persuaded to self-denial in the RELIGIOUS sense, or to self-mutilation,
as among the Phoenicians and ascetics, or in general, to
desensualisation, decarnalisation, and contrition, to Puritanical
repentance-spasms, to vivisection of conscience and to Pascal-like
SACRIFIZIA DELL' INTELLETO, he is secretly allured and impelled
forwards by his cruelty, by the dangerous thrill of cruelty TOWARDS
HIMSELF.--Finally, let us consider that even the seeker of knowledge
operates as an artist and glorifier of cruelty, in that he compels his
spirit to perceive AGAINST its own inclination, and often enough against
the wishes of his heart:--he forces it to say Nay, where he would like
to affirm, love, and adore; indeed, every instance of taking a thing
profoundly and fundamentally, is a violation, an intentional injuring
of the fundamental will of the spirit, which instinctively aims at
appearance and superficiality,--even in every desire for knowledge there
is a drop of cruelty.

230. Perhaps what I have said here about a "fundamental will of the
spirit" may not be understood without further details; I may be allowed
a word of explanation.--That imperious something which is popularly
called "the spirit," wishes to be master internally and externally,
and to feel itself master; it has the will of a multiplicity for a
simplicity, a binding, taming, imperious, and essentially ruling will.
Its requirements and capacities here, are the same as those assigned by
physiologists to everything that lives, grows, and multiplies. The power
of the spirit to appropriate foreign elements reveals itself in a strong
tendency to assimilate the new to the old, to simplify the manifold,
to overlook or repudiate the absolutely contradictory; just as it
arbitrarily re-underlines, makes prominent, and falsifies for itself
certain traits and lines in the foreign elements, in every portion of
the "outside world." Its object thereby is the incorporation of new
"experiences," the assortment of new things in the old arrangements--in
short, growth; or more properly, the FEELING of growth, the feeling of
increased power--is its object. This same will has at its service an
apparently opposed impulse of the spirit, a suddenly adopted preference
of ignorance, of arbitrary shutting out, a closing of windows, an inner
denial of this or that, a prohibition to approach, a sort of defensive
attitude against much that is knowable, a contentment with obscurity,
with the shutting-in horizon, an acceptance and approval of ignorance:
as that which is all necessary according to the degree of its
appropriating power, its "digestive power," to speak figuratively (and
in fact "the spirit" resembles a stomach more than anything else). Here
also belong an occasional propensity of the spirit to let itself be
deceived (perhaps with a waggish suspicion that it is NOT so and so,
but is only allowed to pass as such), a delight in uncertainty and
ambiguity, an exulting enjoyment of arbitrary, out-of-the-way narrowness
and mystery, of the too-near, of the foreground, of the magnified,
the diminished, the misshapen, the beautified--an enjoyment of the
arbitrariness of all these manifestations of power. Finally, in this
connection, there is the not unscrupulous readiness of the spirit to
deceive other spirits and dissemble before them--the constant pressing
and straining of a creating, shaping, changeable power: the spirit
enjoys therein its craftiness and its variety of disguises, it enjoys
also its feeling of security therein--it is precisely by its Protean
arts that it is best protected and concealed!--COUNTER TO this
propensity for appearance, for simplification, for a disguise, for a
cloak, in short, for an outside--for every outside is a cloak--there
operates the sublime tendency of the man of knowledge, which takes, and
INSISTS on taking things profoundly, variously, and thoroughly; as a
kind of cruelty of the intellectual conscience and taste, which every
courageous thinker will acknowledge in himself, provided, as it ought
to be, that he has sharpened and hardened his eye sufficiently long for
introspection, and is accustomed to severe discipline and even severe
words. He will say: "There is something cruel in the tendency of my
spirit": let the virtuous and amiable try to convince him that it is not
so! In fact, it would sound nicer, if, instead of our cruelty, perhaps
our "extravagant honesty" were talked about, whispered about, and
glorified--we free, VERY free spirits--and some day perhaps SUCH will
actually be our--posthumous glory! Meanwhile--for there is plenty of
time until then--we should be least inclined to deck ourselves out in
such florid and fringed moral verbiage; our whole former work has
just made us sick of this taste and its sprightly exuberance. They are
beautiful, glistening, jingling, festive words: honesty, love of truth,
love of wisdom, sacrifice for knowledge, heroism of the truthful--there
is something in them that makes one's heart swell with pride. But we
anchorites and marmots have long ago persuaded ourselves in all the
secrecy of an anchorite's conscience, that this worthy parade of
verbiage also belongs to the old false adornment, frippery, and
gold-dust of unconscious human vanity, and that even under such
flattering colour and repainting, the terrible original text HOMO NATURA
must again be recognized. In effect, to translate man back again into
nature; to master the many vain and visionary interpretations and
subordinate meanings which have hitherto been scratched and daubed over
the eternal original text, HOMO NATURA; to bring it about that man shall
henceforth stand before man as he now, hardened by the discipline
of science, stands before the OTHER forms of nature, with fearless
Oedipus-eyes, and stopped Ulysses-ears, deaf to the enticements of old
metaphysical bird-catchers, who have piped to him far too long: "Thou
art more! thou art higher! thou hast a different origin!"--this may be
a strange and foolish task, but that it is a TASK, who can deny! Why did
we choose it, this foolish task? Or, to put the question differently:
"Why knowledge at all?" Every one will ask us about this. And thus
pressed, we, who have asked ourselves the question a hundred times, have
not found and cannot find any better answer....

231. Learning alters us, it does what all nourishment does that does not
merely "conserve"--as the physiologist knows. But at the bottom of our
souls, quite "down below," there is certainly something unteachable,
a granite of spiritual fate, of predetermined decision and answer to
predetermined, chosen questions. In each cardinal problem there speaks
an unchangeable "I am this"; a thinker cannot learn anew about man and
woman, for instance, but can only learn fully--he can only follow to the
end what is "fixed" about them in himself. Occasionally we find certain
solutions of problems which make strong beliefs for us; perhaps they
are henceforth called "convictions." Later on--one sees in them only
footsteps to self-knowledge, guide-posts to the problem which we
ourselves ARE--or more correctly to the great stupidity which we embody,
our spiritual fate, the UNTEACHABLE in us, quite "down below."--In view
of this liberal compliment which I have just paid myself, permission
will perhaps be more readily allowed me to utter some truths about
"woman as she is," provided that it is known at the outset how literally
they are merely--MY truths.

232. Woman wishes to be independent, and therefore she begins to
enlighten men about "woman as she is"--THIS is one of the worst
developments of the general UGLIFYING of Europe. For what must these
clumsy attempts of feminine scientificality and self-exposure bring
to light! Woman has so much cause for shame; in woman there is so
much pedantry, superficiality, schoolmasterliness, petty presumption,
unbridledness, and indiscretion concealed--study only woman's behaviour
towards children!--which has really been best restrained and dominated
hitherto by the FEAR of man. Alas, if ever the "eternally tedious in
woman"--she has plenty of it!--is allowed to venture forth! if she
begins radically and on principle to unlearn her wisdom and art-of
charming, of playing, of frightening away sorrow, of alleviating and
taking easily; if she forgets her delicate aptitude for agreeable
desires! Female voices are already raised, which, by Saint Aristophanes!
make one afraid:--with medical explicitness it is stated in a
threatening manner what woman first and last REQUIRES from man. Is
it not in the very worst taste that woman thus sets herself up to be
scientific? Enlightenment hitherto has fortunately been men's affair,
men's gift--we remained therewith "among ourselves"; and in the end,
in view of all that women write about "woman," we may well have
considerable doubt as to whether woman really DESIRES enlightenment
about herself--and CAN desire it. If woman does not thereby seek a new
ORNAMENT for herself--I believe ornamentation belongs to the eternally
feminine?--why, then, she wishes to make herself feared: perhaps she
thereby wishes to get the mastery. But she does not want truth--what
does woman care for truth? From the very first, nothing is more foreign,
more repugnant, or more hostile to woman than truth--her great art is
falsehood, her chief concern is appearance and beauty. Let us confess
it, we men: we honour and love this very art and this very instinct in
woman: we who have the hard task, and for our recreation gladly seek the
company of beings under whose hands, glances, and delicate follies, our
seriousness, our gravity, and profundity appear almost like follies to
us. Finally, I ask the question: Did a woman herself ever acknowledge
profundity in a woman's mind, or justice in a woman's heart? And is it
not true that on the whole "woman" has hitherto been most despised by
woman herself, and not at all by us?--We men desire that woman should
not continue to compromise herself by enlightening us; just as it was
man's care and the consideration for woman, when the church decreed:
mulier taceat in ecclesia. It was to the benefit of woman when Napoleon
gave the too eloquent Madame de Stael to understand: mulier taceat in
politicis!--and in my opinion, he is a true friend of woman who calls
out to women today: mulier taceat de mulierel.

233. It betrays corruption of the instincts--apart from the fact that
it betrays bad taste--when a woman refers to Madame Roland, or Madame de
Stael, or Monsieur George Sand, as though something were proved thereby
in favour of "woman as she is." Among men, these are the three comical
women as they are--nothing more!--and just the best involuntary
counter-arguments against feminine emancipation and autonomy.

234. Stupidity in the kitchen; woman as cook; the terrible
thoughtlessness with which the feeding of the family and the master of
the house is managed! Woman does not understand what food means, and she
insists on being cook! If woman had been a thinking creature, she should
certainly, as cook for thousands of years, have discovered the most
important physiological facts, and should likewise have got possession
of the healing art! Through bad female cooks--through the entire lack
of reason in the kitchen--the development of mankind has been longest
retarded and most interfered with: even today matters are very little
better. A word to High School girls.

235. There are turns and casts of fancy, there are sentences, little
handfuls of words, in which a whole culture, a whole society suddenly
crystallises itself. Among these is the incidental remark of Madame de
Lambert to her son: "MON AMI, NE VOUS PERMETTEZ JAMAIS QUE DES FOLIES,
QUI VOUS FERONT GRAND PLAISIR"--the motherliest and wisest remark, by
the way, that was ever addressed to a son.

236. I have no doubt that every noble woman will oppose what Dante and
Goethe believed about woman--the former when he sang, "ELLA GUARDAVA
SUSO, ED IO IN LEI," and the latter when he interpreted it, "the
eternally feminine draws us ALOFT"; for THIS is just what she believes
of the eternally masculine.

237.

SEVEN APOPHTHEGMS FOR WOMEN

How the longest ennui flees, When a man comes to our knees!

Age, alas! and science staid, Furnish even weak virtue aid.

Sombre garb and silence meet: Dress for every dame--discreet.

Whom I thank when in my bliss? God!--and my good tailoress!

Young, a flower-decked cavern home; Old, a dragon thence doth roam.

Noble title, leg that's fine, Man as well: Oh, were HE mine!

Speech in brief and sense in mass--Slippery for the jenny-ass!

237A. Woman has hitherto been treated by men like birds, which, losing
their way, have come down among them from an elevation: as something
delicate, fragile, wild, strange, sweet, and animating--but as something
also which must be cooped up to prevent it flying away.

238. To be mistaken in the fundamental problem of "man and woman," to
deny here the profoundest antagonism and the necessity for an eternally
hostile tension, to dream here perhaps of equal rights, equal
training, equal claims and obligations: that is a TYPICAL sign of
shallow-mindedness; and a thinker who has proved himself shallow at
this dangerous spot--shallow in instinct!--may generally be regarded as
suspicious, nay more, as betrayed, as discovered; he will probably prove
too "short" for all fundamental questions of life, future as well as
present, and will be unable to descend into ANY of the depths. On the
other hand, a man who has depth of spirit as well as of desires, and
has also the depth of benevolence which is capable of severity and
harshness, and easily confounded with them, can only think of woman as
ORIENTALS do: he must conceive of her as a possession, as confinable
property, as a being predestined for service and accomplishing her
mission therein--he must take his stand in this matter upon the immense
rationality of Asia, upon the superiority of the instinct of Asia, as
the Greeks did formerly; those best heirs and scholars of Asia--who,
as is well known, with their INCREASING culture and amplitude of power,
from Homer to the time of Pericles, became gradually STRICTER towards
woman, in short, more Oriental. HOW necessary, HOW logical, even HOW
humanely desirable this was, let us consider for ourselves!

239. The weaker sex has in no previous age been treated with so
much respect by men as at present--this belongs to the tendency and
fundamental taste of democracy, in the same way as disrespectfulness to
old age--what wonder is it that abuse should be immediately made of
this respect? They want more, they learn to make claims, the tribute
of respect is at last felt to be well-nigh galling; rivalry for rights,
indeed actual strife itself, would be preferred: in a word, woman is
losing modesty. And let us immediately add that she is also losing
taste. She is unlearning to FEAR man: but the woman who "unlearns to
fear" sacrifices her most womanly instincts. That woman should venture
forward when the fear-inspiring quality in man--or more definitely,
the MAN in man--is no longer either desired or fully developed, is
reasonable enough and also intelligible enough; what is more difficult
to understand is that precisely thereby--woman deteriorates. This is
what is happening nowadays: let us not deceive ourselves about it!
Wherever the industrial spirit has triumphed over the military
and aristocratic spirit, woman strives for the economic and legal
independence of a clerk: "woman as clerkess" is inscribed on the portal
of the modern society which is in course of formation. While she
thus appropriates new rights, aspires to be "master," and inscribes
"progress" of woman on her flags and banners, the very opposite realises
itself with terrible obviousness: WOMAN RETROGRADES. Since the French
Revolution the influence of woman in Europe has DECLINED in proportion
as she has increased her rights and claims; and the "emancipation of
woman," insofar as it is desired and demanded by women themselves (and
not only by masculine shallow-pates), thus proves to be a remarkable
symptom of the increased weakening and deadening of the most womanly
instincts. There is STUPIDITY in this movement, an almost masculine
stupidity, of which a well-reared woman--who is always a sensible
woman--might be heartily ashamed. To lose the intuition as to the ground
upon which she can most surely achieve victory; to neglect exercise in
the use of her proper weapons; to let-herself-go before man, perhaps
even "to the book," where formerly she kept herself in control and in
refined, artful humility; to neutralize with her virtuous audacity man's
faith in a VEILED, fundamentally different ideal in woman, something
eternally, necessarily feminine; to emphatically and loquaciously
dissuade man from the idea that woman must be preserved, cared for,
protected, and indulged, like some delicate, strangely wild, and
often pleasant domestic animal; the clumsy and indignant collection of
everything of the nature of servitude and bondage which the position of
woman in the hitherto existing order of society has entailed and still
entails (as though slavery were a counter-argument, and not rather a
condition of every higher culture, of every elevation of culture):--what
does all this betoken, if not a disintegration of womanly instincts,
a defeminising? Certainly, there are enough of idiotic friends and
corrupters of woman among the learned asses of the masculine sex, who
advise woman to defeminize herself in this manner, and to imitate
all the stupidities from which "man" in Europe, European "manliness,"
suffers,--who would like to lower woman to "general culture," indeed
even to newspaper reading and meddling with politics. Here and there
they wish even to make women into free spirits and literary workers: as
though a woman without piety would not be something perfectly obnoxious
or ludicrous to a profound and godless man;--almost everywhere her
nerves are being ruined by the most morbid and dangerous kind of music
(our latest German music), and she is daily being made more hysterical
and more incapable of fulfilling her first and last function, that of
bearing robust children. They wish to "cultivate" her in general still
more, and intend, as they say, to make the "weaker sex" STRONG by
culture: as if history did not teach in the most emphatic manner that
the "cultivating" of mankind and his weakening--that is to say, the
weakening, dissipating, and languishing of his FORCE OF WILL--have
always kept pace with one another, and that the most powerful and
influential women in the world (and lastly, the mother of Napoleon)
had just to thank their force of will--and not their schoolmasters--for
their power and ascendancy over men. That which inspires respect
in woman, and often enough fear also, is her NATURE, which is more
"natural" than that of man, her genuine, carnivora-like, cunning
flexibility, her tiger-claws beneath the glove, her NAIVETE in egoism,
her untrainableness and innate wildness, the incomprehensibleness,
extent, and deviation of her desires and virtues. That which, in spite
of fear, excites one's sympathy for the dangerous and beautiful cat,
"woman," is that she seems more afflicted, more vulnerable, more
necessitous of love, and more condemned to disillusionment than any
other creature. Fear and sympathy it is with these feelings that man has
hitherto stood in the presence of woman, always with one foot already in
tragedy, which rends while it delights--What? And all that is now to
be at an end? And the DISENCHANTMENT of woman is in progress? The
tediousness of woman is slowly evolving? Oh Europe! Europe! We know
the horned animal which was always most attractive to thee, from which
danger is ever again threatening thee! Thy old fable might once more
become "history"--an immense stupidity might once again overmaster
thee and carry thee away! And no God concealed beneath it--no! only an
"idea," a "modern idea"!



CHAPTER VIII. PEOPLES AND COUNTRIES


240. I HEARD, once again for the first time, Richard Wagner's overture
to the Mastersinger: it is a piece of magnificent, gorgeous, heavy,
latter-day art, which has the pride to presuppose two centuries of music
as still living, in order that it may be understood:--it is an honour
to Germans that such a pride did not miscalculate! What flavours
and forces, what seasons and climes do we not find mingled in it! It
impresses us at one time as ancient, at another time as foreign, bitter,
and too modern, it is as arbitrary as it is pompously traditional, it
is not infrequently roguish, still oftener rough and coarse--it has fire
and courage, and at the same time the loose, dun-coloured skin of fruits
which ripen too late. It flows broad and full: and suddenly there is a
moment of inexplicable hesitation, like a gap that opens between cause
and effect, an oppression that makes us dream, almost a nightmare; but
already it broadens and widens anew, the old stream of delight--the most
manifold delight,--of old and new happiness; including ESPECIALLY
the joy of the artist in himself, which he refuses to conceal, his
astonished, happy cognizance of his mastery of the expedients here
employed, the new, newly acquired, imperfectly tested expedients of art
which he apparently betrays to us. All in all, however, no beauty, no
South, nothing of the delicate southern clearness of the sky, nothing
of grace, no dance, hardly a will to logic; a certain clumsiness even,
which is also emphasized, as though the artist wished to say to us: "It
is part of my intention"; a cumbersome drapery, something arbitrarily
barbaric and ceremonious, a flirring of learned and venerable conceits
and witticisms; something German in the best and worst sense of
the word, something in the German style, manifold, formless, and
inexhaustible; a certain German potency and super-plenitude of
soul, which is not afraid to hide itself under the RAFFINEMENTS of
decadence--which, perhaps, feels itself most at ease there; a real,
genuine token of the German soul, which is at the same time young and
aged, too ripe and yet still too rich in futurity. This kind of music
expresses best what I think of the Germans: they belong to the day
before yesterday and the day after tomorrow--THEY HAVE AS YET NO TODAY.

241. We "good Europeans," we also have hours when we allow ourselves a
warm-hearted patriotism, a plunge and relapse into old loves and narrow
views--I have just given an example of it--hours of national excitement,
of patriotic anguish, and all other sorts of old-fashioned floods of
sentiment. Duller spirits may perhaps only get done with what confines
its operations in us to hours and plays itself out in hours--in a
considerable time: some in half a year, others in half a lifetime,
according to the speed and strength with which they digest and "change
their material." Indeed, I could think of sluggish, hesitating races,
which even in our rapidly moving Europe, would require half a century
ere they could surmount such atavistic attacks of patriotism and
soil-attachment, and return once more to reason, that is to say, to
"good Europeanism." And while digressing on this possibility, I
happen to become an ear-witness of a conversation between two old
patriots--they were evidently both hard of hearing and consequently
spoke all the louder. "HE has as much, and knows as much, philosophy as
a peasant or a corps-student," said the one--"he is still innocent. But
what does that matter nowadays! It is the age of the masses: they lie on
their belly before everything that is massive. And so also in politicis.
A statesman who rears up for them a new Tower of Babel, some monstrosity
of empire and power, they call 'great'--what does it matter that we more
prudent and conservative ones do not meanwhile give up the old belief
that it is only the great thought that gives greatness to an action or
affair. Supposing a statesman were to bring his people into the position
of being obliged henceforth to practise 'high politics,' for which they
were by nature badly endowed and prepared, so that they would have
to sacrifice their old and reliable virtues, out of love to a new and
doubtful mediocrity;--supposing a statesman were to condemn his people
generally to 'practise politics,' when they have hitherto had something
better to do and think about, and when in the depths of their souls
they have been unable to free themselves from a prudent loathing of
the restlessness, emptiness, and noisy wranglings of the essentially
politics-practising nations;--supposing such a statesman were to
stimulate the slumbering passions and avidities of his people, were to
make a stigma out of their former diffidence and delight in aloofness,
an offence out of their exoticism and hidden permanency, were to
depreciate their most radical proclivities, subvert their consciences,
make their minds narrow, and their tastes 'national'--what! a statesman
who should do all this, which his people would have to do penance for
throughout their whole future, if they had a future, such a statesman
would be GREAT, would he?"--"Undoubtedly!" replied the other old patriot
vehemently, "otherwise he COULD NOT have done it! It was mad perhaps to
wish such a thing! But perhaps everything great has been just as mad
at its commencement!"--"Misuse of words!" cried his interlocutor,
contradictorily--"strong! strong! Strong and mad! NOT great!"--The old
men had obviously become heated as they thus shouted their "truths" in
each other's faces, but I, in my happiness and apartness, considered how
soon a stronger one may become master of the strong, and also that
there is a compensation for the intellectual superficialising of a
nation--namely, in the deepening of another.

242. Whether we call it "civilization," or "humanising," or "progress,"
which now distinguishes the European, whether we call it simply, without
praise or blame, by the political formula the DEMOCRATIC movement in
Europe--behind all the moral and political foregrounds pointed to by
such formulas, an immense PHYSIOLOGICAL PROCESS goes on, which is ever
extending the process of the assimilation of Europeans, their
increasing detachment from the conditions under which, climatically and
hereditarily, united races originate, their increasing independence of
every definite milieu, that for centuries would fain inscribe itself
with equal demands on soul and body,--that is to say, the slow emergence
of an essentially SUPER-NATIONAL and nomadic species of man, who
possesses, physiologically speaking, a maximum of the art and power
of adaptation as his typical distinction. This process of the EVOLVING
EUROPEAN, which can be retarded in its TEMPO by great relapses, but
will perhaps just gain and grow thereby in vehemence and depth--the
still-raging storm and stress of "national sentiment" pertains to it,
and also the anarchism which is appearing at present--this process
will probably arrive at results on which its naive propagators and
panegyrists, the apostles of "modern ideas," would least care to reckon.
The same new conditions under which on an average a levelling and
mediocrising of man will take place--a useful, industrious, variously
serviceable, and clever gregarious man--are in the highest degree
suitable to give rise to exceptional men of the most dangerous and
attractive qualities. For, while the capacity for adaptation, which is
every day trying changing conditions, and begins a new work with every
generation, almost with every decade, makes the POWERFULNESS of the type
impossible; while the collective impression of such future Europeans
will probably be that of numerous, talkative, weak-willed, and very
handy workmen who REQUIRE a master, a commander, as they require their
daily bread; while, therefore, the democratising of Europe will tend to
the production of a type prepared for SLAVERY in the most subtle
sense of the term: the STRONG man will necessarily in individual and
exceptional cases, become stronger and richer than he has perhaps ever
been before--owing to the unprejudicedness of his schooling, owing to
the immense variety of practice, art, and disguise. I meant to say
that the democratising of Europe is at the same time an involuntary
arrangement for the rearing of TYRANTS--taking the word in all its
meanings, even in its most spiritual sense.

243. I hear with pleasure that our sun is moving rapidly towards the
constellation Hercules: and I hope that the men on this earth will do
like the sun. And we foremost, we good Europeans!

244. There was a time when it was customary to call Germans "deep"
by way of distinction; but now that the most successful type of new
Germanism is covetous of quite other honours, and perhaps misses
"smartness" in all that has depth, it is almost opportune and patriotic
to doubt whether we did not formerly deceive ourselves with that
commendation: in short, whether German depth is not at bottom something
different and worse--and something from which, thank God, we are on the
point of successfully ridding ourselves. Let us try, then, to relearn
with regard to German depth; the only thing necessary for the purpose is
a little vivisection of the German soul.--The German soul is above all
manifold, varied in its source, aggregated and super-imposed, rather
than actually built: this is owing to its origin. A German who would
embolden himself to assert: "Two souls, alas, dwell in my breast," would
make a bad guess at the truth, or, more correctly, he would come far
short of the truth about the number of souls. As a people made up of
the most extraordinary mixing and mingling of races, perhaps even with a
preponderance of the pre-Aryan element as the "people of the centre" in
every sense of the term, the Germans are more intangible, more ample,
more contradictory, more unknown, more incalculable, more surprising,
and even more terrifying than other peoples are to themselves:--they
escape DEFINITION, and are thereby alone the despair of the French. It
IS characteristic of the Germans that the question: "What is German?"
never dies out among them. Kotzebue certainly knew his Germans well
enough: "We are known," they cried jubilantly to him--but Sand also
thought he knew them. Jean Paul knew what he was doing when he declared
himself incensed at Fichte's lying but patriotic flatteries and
exaggerations,--but it is probable that Goethe thought differently about
Germans from Jean Paul, even though he acknowledged him to be right with
regard to Fichte. It is a question what Goethe really thought about the
Germans?--But about many things around him he never spoke explicitly,
and all his life he knew how to keep an astute silence--probably he
had good reason for it. It is certain that it was not the "Wars of
Independence" that made him look up more joyfully, any more than it was
the French Revolution,--the event on account of which he RECONSTRUCTED
his "Faust," and indeed the whole problem of "man," was the appearance
of Napoleon. There are words of Goethe in which he condemns with
impatient severity, as from a foreign land, that which Germans take a
pride in, he once defined the famous German turn of mind as "Indulgence
towards its own and others' weaknesses." Was he wrong? it is
characteristic of Germans that one is seldom entirely wrong about them.
The German soul has passages and galleries in it, there are caves,
hiding-places, and dungeons therein, its disorder has much of the charm
of the mysterious, the German is well acquainted with the bypaths to
chaos. And as everything loves its symbol, so the German loves the
clouds and all that is obscure, evolving, crepuscular, damp, and
shrouded, it seems to him that everything uncertain, undeveloped,
self-displacing, and growing is "deep". The German himself does not
EXIST, he is BECOMING, he is "developing himself". "Development" is
therefore the essentially German discovery and hit in the great domain
of philosophical formulas,--a ruling idea, which, together with German
beer and German music, is labouring to Germanise all Europe. Foreigners
are astonished and attracted by the riddles which the conflicting nature
at the basis of the German soul propounds to them (riddles which
Hegel systematised and Richard Wagner has in the end set to music).
"Good-natured and spiteful"--such a juxtaposition, preposterous in the
case of every other people, is unfortunately only too often justified
in Germany one has only to live for a while among Swabians to know this!
The clumsiness of the German scholar and his social distastefulness
agree alarmingly well with his physical rope-dancing and nimble
boldness, of which all the Gods have learnt to be afraid. If any one
wishes to see the "German soul" demonstrated ad oculos, let him
only look at German taste, at German arts and manners what boorish
indifference to "taste"! How the noblest and the commonest stand there
in juxtaposition! How disorderly and how rich is the whole constitution
of this soul! The German DRAGS at his soul, he drags at everything he
experiences. He digests his events badly; he never gets "done"
with them; and German depth is often only a difficult, hesitating
"digestion." And just as all chronic invalids, all dyspeptics like what
is convenient, so the German loves "frankness" and "honesty"; it is
so CONVENIENT to be frank and honest!--This confidingness, this
complaisance, this showing-the-cards of German HONESTY, is probably the
most dangerous and most successful disguise which the German is up to
nowadays: it is his proper Mephistophelean art; with this he can "still
achieve much"! The German lets himself go, and thereby gazes with
faithful, blue, empty German eyes--and other countries immediately
confound him with his dressing-gown!--I meant to say that, let "German
depth" be what it will--among ourselves alone we perhaps take the
liberty to laugh at it--we shall do well to continue henceforth to
honour its appearance and good name, and not barter away too cheaply our
old reputation as a people of depth for Prussian "smartness," and
Berlin wit and sand. It is wise for a people to pose, and LET itself
be regarded, as profound, clumsy, good-natured, honest, and foolish: it
might even be--profound to do so! Finally, we should do honour to
our name--we are not called the "TIUSCHE VOLK" (deceptive people) for
nothing....

245. The "good old" time is past, it sang itself out in Mozart--how
happy are WE that his ROCOCO still speaks to us, that his "good
company," his tender enthusiasm, his childish delight in the Chinese and
its flourishes, his courtesy of heart, his longing for the elegant, the
amorous, the tripping, the tearful, and his belief in the South, can
still appeal to SOMETHING LEFT in us! Ah, some time or other it will be
over with it!--but who can doubt that it will be over still sooner with
the intelligence and taste for Beethoven! For he was only the last echo
of a break and transition in style, and NOT, like Mozart, the last echo
of a great European taste which had existed for centuries. Beethoven
is the intermediate event between an old mellow soul that is constantly
breaking down, and a future over-young soul that is always COMING;
there is spread over his music the twilight of eternal loss and eternal
extravagant hope,--the same light in which Europe was bathed when it
dreamed with Rousseau, when it danced round the Tree of Liberty of the
Revolution, and finally almost fell down in adoration before Napoleon.
But how rapidly does THIS very sentiment now pale, how difficult
nowadays is even the APPREHENSION of this sentiment, how strangely does
the language of Rousseau, Schiller, Shelley, and Byron sound to our ear,
in whom COLLECTIVELY the same fate of Europe was able to SPEAK, which
knew how to SING in Beethoven!--Whatever German music came afterwards,
belongs to Romanticism, that is to say, to a movement which,
historically considered, was still shorter, more fleeting, and more
superficial than that great interlude, the transition of Europe from
Rousseau to Napoleon, and to the rise of democracy. Weber--but what do
WE care nowadays for "Freischutz" and "Oberon"! Or Marschner's "Hans
Heiling" and "Vampyre"! Or even Wagner's "Tannhauser"! That is extinct,
although not yet forgotten music. This whole music of Romanticism,
besides, was not noble enough, was not musical enough, to maintain its
position anywhere but in the theatre and before the masses; from the
beginning it was second-rate music, which was little thought of by
genuine musicians. It was different with Felix Mendelssohn, that halcyon
master, who, on account of his lighter, purer, happier soul, quickly
acquired admiration, and was equally quickly forgotten: as the beautiful
EPISODE of German music. But with regard to Robert Schumann, who took
things seriously, and has been taken seriously from the first--he
was the last that founded a school,--do we not now regard it as a
satisfaction, a relief, a deliverance, that this very Romanticism
of Schumann's has been surmounted? Schumann, fleeing into the "Saxon
Switzerland" of his soul, with a half Werther-like, half Jean-Paul-like
nature (assuredly not like Beethoven! assuredly not like Byron!)--his
MANFRED music is a mistake and a misunderstanding to the extent of
injustice; Schumann, with his taste, which was fundamentally a PETTY
taste (that is to say, a dangerous propensity--doubly dangerous among
Germans--for quiet lyricism and intoxication of the feelings), going
constantly apart, timidly withdrawing and retiring, a noble weakling who
revelled in nothing but anonymous joy and sorrow, from the beginning
a sort of girl and NOLI ME TANGERE--this Schumann was already merely a
GERMAN event in music, and no longer a European event, as Beethoven had
been, as in a still greater degree Mozart had been; with Schumann German
music was threatened with its greatest danger, that of LOSING THE VOICE
FOR THE SOUL OF EUROPE and sinking into a merely national affair.

246. What a torture are books written in German to a reader who has a
THIRD ear! How indignantly he stands beside the slowly turning swamp
of sounds without tune and rhythms without dance, which Germans call
a "book"! And even the German who READS books! How lazily, how
reluctantly, how badly he reads! How many Germans know, and consider it
obligatory to know, that there is ART in every good sentence--art which
must be divined, if the sentence is to be understood! If there is a
misunderstanding about its TEMPO, for instance, the sentence itself
is misunderstood! That one must not be doubtful about the
rhythm-determining syllables, that one should feel the breaking of the
too-rigid symmetry as intentional and as a charm, that one should lend a
fine and patient ear to every STACCATO and every RUBATO, that one should
divine the sense in the sequence of the vowels and diphthongs, and how
delicately and richly they can be tinted and retinted in the order of
their arrangement--who among book-reading Germans is complaisant enough
to recognize such duties and requirements, and to listen to so much art
and intention in language? After all, one just "has no ear for it";
and so the most marked contrasts of style are not heard, and the most
delicate artistry is as it were SQUANDERED on the deaf.--These were my
thoughts when I noticed how clumsily and unintuitively two masters in
the art of prose-writing have been confounded: one, whose words drop
down hesitatingly and coldly, as from the roof of a damp cave--he counts
on their dull sound and echo; and another who manipulates his language
like a flexible sword, and from his arm down into his toes feels the
dangerous bliss of the quivering, over-sharp blade, which wishes to
bite, hiss, and cut.

247. How little the German style has to do with harmony and with the
ear, is shown by the fact that precisely our good musicians themselves
write badly. The German does not read aloud, he does not read for the
ear, but only with his eyes; he has put his ears away in the drawer for
the time. In antiquity when a man read--which was seldom enough--he read
something to himself, and in a loud voice; they were surprised when
any one read silently, and sought secretly the reason of it. In a
loud voice: that is to say, with all the swellings, inflections, and
variations of key and changes of TEMPO, in which the ancient PUBLIC
world took delight. The laws of the written style were then the same
as those of the spoken style; and these laws depended partly on the
surprising development and refined requirements of the ear and larynx;
partly on the strength, endurance, and power of the ancient lungs. In
the ancient sense, a period is above all a physiological whole, inasmuch
as it is comprised in one breath. Such periods as occur in Demosthenes
and Cicero, swelling twice and sinking twice, and all in one breath,
were pleasures to the men of ANTIQUITY, who knew by their own schooling
how to appreciate the virtue therein, the rareness and the difficulty
in the deliverance of such a period;--WE have really no right to the
BIG period, we modern men, who are short of breath in every sense! Those
ancients, indeed, were all of them dilettanti in speaking, consequently
connoisseurs, consequently critics--they thus brought their orators to
the highest pitch; in the same manner as in the last century, when all
Italian ladies and gentlemen knew how to sing, the virtuosoship of song
(and with it also the art of melody) reached its elevation. In Germany,
however (until quite recently when a kind of platform eloquence began
shyly and awkwardly enough to flutter its young wings), there was
properly speaking only one kind of public and APPROXIMATELY artistical
discourse--that delivered from the pulpit. The preacher was the only one
in Germany who knew the weight of a syllable or a word, in what manner a
sentence strikes, springs, rushes, flows, and comes to a close; he alone
had a conscience in his ears, often enough a bad conscience: for reasons
are not lacking why proficiency in oratory should be especially seldom
attained by a German, or almost always too late. The masterpiece of
German prose is therefore with good reason the masterpiece of its
greatest preacher: the BIBLE has hitherto been the best German
book. Compared with Luther's Bible, almost everything else is merely
"literature"--something which has not grown in Germany, and therefore
has not taken and does not take root in German hearts, as the Bible has
done.

248. There are two kinds of geniuses: one which above all engenders and
seeks to engender, and another which willingly lets itself be fructified
and brings forth. And similarly, among the gifted nations, there are
those on whom the woman's problem of pregnancy has devolved, and the
secret task of forming, maturing, and perfecting--the Greeks, for
instance, were a nation of this kind, and so are the French; and others
which have to fructify and become the cause of new modes of life--like
the Jews, the Romans, and, in all modesty be it asked: like the
Germans?--nations tortured and enraptured by unknown fevers and
irresistibly forced out of themselves, amorous and longing for
foreign races (for such as "let themselves be fructified"), and withal
imperious, like everything conscious of being full of generative force,
and consequently empowered "by the grace of God." These two kinds of
geniuses seek each other like man and woman; but they also misunderstand
each other--like man and woman.

249. Every nation has its own "Tartuffery," and calls that its
virtue.--One does not know--cannot know, the best that is in one.

250. What Europe owes to the Jews?--Many things, good and bad, and above
all one thing of the nature both of the best and the worst: the grand
style in morality, the fearfulness and majesty of infinite demands, of
infinite significations, the whole Romanticism and sublimity of moral
questionableness--and consequently just the most attractive, ensnaring,
and exquisite element in those iridescences and allurements to life,
in the aftersheen of which the sky of our European culture, its evening
sky, now glows--perhaps glows out. For this, we artists among the
spectators and philosophers, are--grateful to the Jews.

251. It must be taken into the bargain, if various clouds and
disturbances--in short, slight attacks of stupidity--pass over the
spirit of a people that suffers and WANTS to suffer from national
nervous fever and political ambition: for instance, among present-day
Germans there is alternately the anti-French folly, the anti-Semitic
folly, the anti-Polish folly, the Christian-romantic folly, the
Wagnerian folly, the Teutonic folly, the Prussian folly (just look at
those poor historians, the Sybels and Treitschkes, and their closely
bandaged heads), and whatever else these little obscurations of the
German spirit and conscience may be called. May it be forgiven me that
I, too, when on a short daring sojourn on very infected ground, did not
remain wholly exempt from the disease, but like every one else, began
to entertain thoughts about matters which did not concern me--the first
symptom of political infection. About the Jews, for instance, listen
to the following:--I have never yet met a German who was favourably
inclined to the Jews; and however decided the repudiation of actual
anti-Semitism may be on the part of all prudent and political men, this
prudence and policy is not perhaps directed against the nature of the
sentiment itself, but only against its dangerous excess, and especially
against the distasteful and infamous expression of this excess of
sentiment;--on this point we must not deceive ourselves. That Germany
has amply SUFFICIENT Jews, that the German stomach, the German blood,
has difficulty (and will long have difficulty) in disposing only of this
quantity of "Jew"--as the Italian, the Frenchman, and the Englishman
have done by means of a stronger digestion:--that is the unmistakable
declaration and language of a general instinct, to which one must listen
and according to which one must act. "Let no more Jews come in! And shut
the doors, especially towards the East (also towards Austria)!"--thus
commands the instinct of a people whose nature is still feeble and
uncertain, so that it could be easily wiped out, easily extinguished, by
a stronger race. The Jews, however, are beyond all doubt the strongest,
toughest, and purest race at present living in Europe, they know how
to succeed even under the worst conditions (in fact better than under
favourable ones), by means of virtues of some sort, which one would like
nowadays to label as vices--owing above all to a resolute faith which
does not need to be ashamed before "modern ideas", they alter only,
WHEN they do alter, in the same way that the Russian Empire makes
its conquest--as an empire that has plenty of time and is not of
yesterday--namely, according to the principle, "as slowly as possible"!
A thinker who has the future of Europe at heart, will, in all his
perspectives concerning the future, calculate upon the Jews, as he
will calculate upon the Russians, as above all the surest and likeliest
factors in the great play and battle of forces. That which is at present
called a "nation" in Europe, and is really rather a RES FACTA than NATA
(indeed, sometimes confusingly similar to a RES FICTA ET PICTA), is in
every case something evolving, young, easily displaced, and not yet
a race, much less such a race AERE PERENNUS, as the Jews are such
"nations" should most carefully avoid all hot-headed rivalry and
hostility! It is certain that the Jews, if they desired--or if they
were driven to it, as the anti-Semites seem to wish--COULD now have the
ascendancy, nay, literally the supremacy, over Europe, that they are NOT
working and planning for that end is equally certain. Meanwhile, they
rather wish and desire, even somewhat importunely, to be insorbed and
absorbed by Europe, they long to be finally settled, authorized, and
respected somewhere, and wish to put an end to the nomadic life, to the
"wandering Jew",--and one should certainly take account of this impulse
and tendency, and MAKE ADVANCES to it (it possibly betokens a mitigation
of the Jewish instincts) for which purpose it would perhaps be useful
and fair to banish the anti-Semitic bawlers out of the country. One
should make advances with all prudence, and with selection, pretty much
as the English nobility do It stands to reason that the more powerful
and strongly marked types of new Germanism could enter into relation
with the Jews with the least hesitation, for instance, the nobleman
officer from the Prussian border it would be interesting in many ways
to see whether the genius for money and patience (and especially some
intellect and intellectuality--sadly lacking in the place referred to)
could not in addition be annexed and trained to the hereditary art of
commanding and obeying--for both of which the country in question has
now a classic reputation But here it is expedient to break off my festal
discourse and my sprightly Teutonomania for I have already reached my
SERIOUS TOPIC, the "European problem," as I understand it, the rearing
of a new ruling caste for Europe.

252. They are not a philosophical race--the English: Bacon represents an
ATTACK on the philosophical spirit generally, Hobbes, Hume, and Locke,
an abasement, and a depreciation of the idea of a "philosopher" for more
than a century. It was AGAINST Hume that Kant uprose and raised himself;
it was Locke of whom Schelling RIGHTLY said, "JE MEPRISE LOCKE"; in the
struggle against the English mechanical stultification of the world,
Hegel and Schopenhauer (along with Goethe) were of one accord; the
two hostile brother-geniuses in philosophy, who pushed in different
directions towards the opposite poles of German thought, and thereby
wronged each other as only brothers will do.--What is lacking in
England, and has always been lacking, that half-actor and rhetorician
knew well enough, the absurd muddle-head, Carlyle, who sought to conceal
under passionate grimaces what he knew about himself: namely, what was
LACKING in Carlyle--real POWER of intellect, real DEPTH of intellectual
perception, in short, philosophy. It is characteristic of such an
unphilosophical race to hold on firmly to Christianity--they NEED its
discipline for "moralizing" and humanizing. The Englishman, more gloomy,
sensual, headstrong, and brutal than the German--is for that very
reason, as the baser of the two, also the most pious: he has all the
MORE NEED of Christianity. To finer nostrils, this English Christianity
itself has still a characteristic English taint of spleen and alcoholic
excess, for which, owing to good reasons, it is used as an antidote--the
finer poison to neutralize the coarser: a finer form of poisoning is
in fact a step in advance with coarse-mannered people, a step towards
spiritualization. The English coarseness and rustic demureness is still
most satisfactorily disguised by Christian pantomime, and by praying
and psalm-singing (or, more correctly, it is thereby explained and
differently expressed); and for the herd of drunkards and rakes who
formerly learned moral grunting under the influence of Methodism (and
more recently as the "Salvation Army"), a penitential fit may really be
the relatively highest manifestation of "humanity" to which they can
be elevated: so much may reasonably be admitted. That, however, which
offends even in the humanest Englishman is his lack of music, to speak
figuratively (and also literally): he has neither rhythm nor dance in
the movements of his soul and body; indeed, not even the desire for
rhythm and dance, for "music." Listen to him speaking; look at the most
beautiful Englishwoman WALKING--in no country on earth are there more
beautiful doves and swans; finally, listen to them singing! But I ask
too much...

253. There are truths which are best recognized by mediocre minds,
because they are best adapted for them, there are truths which only
possess charms and seductive power for mediocre spirits:--one is pushed
to this probably unpleasant conclusion, now that the influence of
respectable but mediocre Englishmen--I may mention Darwin, John
Stuart Mill, and Herbert Spencer--begins to gain the ascendancy in the
middle-class region of European taste. Indeed, who could doubt that it
is a useful thing for SUCH minds to have the ascendancy for a time? It
would be an error to consider the highly developed and independently
soaring minds as specially qualified for determining and collecting many
little common facts, and deducing conclusions from them; as exceptions,
they are rather from the first in no very favourable position towards
those who are "the rules." After all, they have more to do than merely
to perceive:--in effect, they have to BE something new, they have to
SIGNIFY something new, they have to REPRESENT new values! The gulf
between knowledge and capacity is perhaps greater, and also more
mysterious, than one thinks: the capable man in the grand style, the
creator, will possibly have to be an ignorant person;--while on the
other hand, for scientific discoveries like those of Darwin, a certain
narrowness, aridity, and industrious carefulness (in short, something
English) may not be unfavourable for arriving at them.--Finally, let
it not be forgotten that the English, with their profound mediocrity,
brought about once before a general depression of European intelligence.

What is called "modern ideas," or "the ideas of the eighteenth century,"
or "French ideas"--that, consequently, against which the GERMAN mind
rose up with profound disgust--is of English origin, there is no doubt
about it. The French were only the apes and actors of these ideas, their
best soldiers, and likewise, alas! their first and profoundest VICTIMS;
for owing to the diabolical Anglomania of "modern ideas," the AME
FRANCAIS has in the end become so thin and emaciated, that at present
one recalls its sixteenth and seventeenth centuries, its profound,
passionate strength, its inventive excellency, almost with disbelief.
One must, however, maintain this verdict of historical justice in
a determined manner, and defend it against present prejudices and
appearances: the European NOBLESSE--of sentiment, taste, and manners,
taking the word in every high sense--is the work and invention of
FRANCE; the European ignobleness, the plebeianism of modern ideas--is
ENGLAND'S work and invention.

254. Even at present France is still the seat of the most intellectual
and refined culture of Europe, it is still the high school of taste; but
one must know how to find this "France of taste." He who belongs to it
keeps himself well concealed:--they may be a small number in whom it
lives and is embodied, besides perhaps being men who do not stand upon
the strongest legs, in part fatalists, hypochondriacs, invalids, in
part persons over-indulged, over-refined, such as have the AMBITION to
conceal themselves.

They have all something in common: they keep their ears closed in
presence of the delirious folly and noisy spouting of the democratic
BOURGEOIS. In fact, a besotted and brutalized France at present sprawls
in the foreground--it recently celebrated a veritable orgy of bad taste,
and at the same time of self-admiration, at the funeral of Victor Hugo.
There is also something else common to them: a predilection to resist
intellectual Germanizing--and a still greater inability to do so!
In this France of intellect, which is also a France of pessimism,
Schopenhauer has perhaps become more at home, and more indigenous than
he has ever been in Germany; not to speak of Heinrich Heine, who has
long ago been re-incarnated in the more refined and fastidious lyrists
of Paris; or of Hegel, who at present, in the form of Taine--the FIRST
of living historians--exercises an almost tyrannical influence. As
regards Richard Wagner, however, the more French music learns to
adapt itself to the actual needs of the AME MODERNE, the more will it
"Wagnerite"; one can safely predict that beforehand,--it is already
taking place sufficiently! There are, however, three things which the
French can still boast of with pride as their heritage and possession,
and as indelible tokens of their ancient intellectual superiority
in Europe, in spite of all voluntary or involuntary Germanizing and
vulgarizing of taste. FIRSTLY, the capacity for artistic emotion, for
devotion to "form," for which the expression, L'ART POUR L'ART, along
with numerous others, has been invented:--such capacity has not been
lacking in France for three centuries; and owing to its reverence for
the "small number," it has again and again made a sort of chamber
music of literature possible, which is sought for in vain elsewhere
in Europe.--The SECOND thing whereby the French can lay claim to
a superiority over Europe is their ancient, many-sided, MORALISTIC
culture, owing to which one finds on an average, even in the petty
ROMANCIERS of the newspapers and chance BOULEVARDIERS DE PARIS, a
psychological sensitiveness and curiosity, of which, for example, one
has no conception (to say nothing of the thing itself!) in Germany.
The Germans lack a couple of centuries of the moralistic work requisite
thereto, which, as we have said, France has not grudged: those who call
the Germans "naive" on that account give them commendation for a defect.
(As the opposite of the German inexperience and innocence IN VOLUPTATE
PSYCHOLOGICA, which is not too remotely associated with the tediousness
of German intercourse,--and as the most successful expression of
genuine French curiosity and inventive talent in this domain of delicate
thrills, Henri Beyle may be noted; that remarkable anticipatory and
forerunning man, who, with a Napoleonic TEMPO, traversed HIS Europe,
in fact, several centuries of the European soul, as a surveyor and
discoverer thereof:--it has required two generations to OVERTAKE him
one way or other, to divine long afterwards some of the riddles
that perplexed and enraptured him--this strange Epicurean and man of
interrogation, the last great psychologist of France).--There is yet
a THIRD claim to superiority: in the French character there is a
successful half-way synthesis of the North and South, which makes them
comprehend many things, and enjoins upon them other things, which an
Englishman can never comprehend. Their temperament, turned alternately
to and from the South, in which from time to time the Provencal and
Ligurian blood froths over, preserves them from the dreadful, northern
grey-in-grey, from sunless conceptual-spectrism and from poverty of
blood--our GERMAN infirmity of taste, for the excessive prevalence
of which at the present moment, blood and iron, that is to say "high
politics," has with great resolution been prescribed (according to
a dangerous healing art, which bids me wait and wait, but not yet
hope).--There is also still in France a pre-understanding and
ready welcome for those rarer and rarely gratified men, who are too
comprehensive to find satisfaction in any kind of fatherlandism, and
know how to love the South when in the North and the North when in the
South--the born Midlanders, the "good Europeans." For them BIZET
has made music, this latest genius, who has seen a new beauty and
seduction,--who has discovered a piece of the SOUTH IN MUSIC.

255. I hold that many precautions should be taken against German music.
Suppose a person loves the South as I love it--as a great school
of recovery for the most spiritual and the most sensuous ills, as a
boundless solar profusion and effulgence which o'erspreads a sovereign
existence believing in itself--well, such a person will learn to be
somewhat on his guard against German music, because, in injuring his
taste anew, it will also injure his health anew. Such a Southerner, a
Southerner not by origin but by BELIEF, if he should dream of the future
of music, must also dream of it being freed from the influence of the
North; and must have in his ears the prelude to a deeper, mightier, and
perhaps more perverse and mysterious music, a super-German music, which
does not fade, pale, and die away, as all German music does, at the
sight of the blue, wanton sea and the Mediterranean clearness of sky--a
super-European music, which holds its own even in presence of the brown
sunsets of the desert, whose soul is akin to the palm-tree, and can be
at home and can roam with big, beautiful, lonely beasts of prey... I
could imagine a music of which the rarest charm would be that it knew
nothing more of good and evil; only that here and there perhaps some
sailor's home-sickness, some golden shadows and tender weaknesses might
sweep lightly over it; an art which, from the far distance, would see
the colours of a sinking and almost incomprehensible MORAL world fleeing
towards it, and would be hospitable enough and profound enough to
receive such belated fugitives.

256. Owing to the morbid estrangement which the nationality-craze has
induced and still induces among the nations of Europe, owing also to the
short-sighted and hasty-handed politicians, who with the help of this
craze, are at present in power, and do not suspect to what extent the
disintegrating policy they pursue must necessarily be only an interlude
policy--owing to all this and much else that is altogether unmentionable
at present, the most unmistakable signs that EUROPE WISHES TO BE ONE,
are now overlooked, or arbitrarily and falsely misinterpreted. With all
the more profound and large-minded men of this century, the real general
tendency of the mysterious labour of their souls was to prepare the way
for that new SYNTHESIS, and tentatively to anticipate the European of
the future; only in their simulations, or in their weaker moments, in
old age perhaps, did they belong to the "fatherlands"--they only rested
from themselves when they became "patriots." I think of such men as
Napoleon, Goethe, Beethoven, Stendhal, Heinrich Heine, Schopenhauer: it
must not be taken amiss if I also count Richard Wagner among them, about
whom one must not let oneself be deceived by his own misunderstandings
(geniuses like him have seldom the right to understand themselves),
still less, of course, by the unseemly noise with which he is now
resisted and opposed in France: the fact remains, nevertheless, that
Richard Wagner and the LATER FRENCH ROMANTICISM of the forties, are
most closely and intimately related to one another. They are akin,
fundamentally akin, in all the heights and depths of their requirements;
it is Europe, the ONE Europe, whose soul presses urgently and longingly,
outwards and upwards, in their multifarious and boisterous art--whither?
into a new light? towards a new sun? But who would attempt to express
accurately what all these masters of new modes of speech could not
express distinctly? It is certain that the same storm and stress
tormented them, that they SOUGHT in the same manner, these last great
seekers! All of them steeped in literature to their eyes and ears--the
first artists of universal literary culture--for the most part even
themselves writers, poets, intermediaries and blenders of the arts and
the senses (Wagner, as musician is reckoned among painters, as poet
among musicians, as artist generally among actors); all of them fanatics
for EXPRESSION "at any cost"--I specially mention Delacroix, the nearest
related to Wagner; all of them great discoverers in the realm of the
sublime, also of the loathsome and dreadful, still greater discoverers
in effect, in display, in the art of the show-shop; all of them talented
far beyond their genius, out and out VIRTUOSI, with mysterious accesses
to all that seduces, allures, constrains, and upsets; born enemies of
logic and of the straight line, hankering after the strange, the
exotic, the monstrous, the crooked, and the self-contradictory; as men,
Tantaluses of the will, plebeian parvenus, who knew themselves to be
incapable of a noble TEMPO or of a LENTO in life and action--think
of Balzac, for instance,--unrestrained workers, almost destroying
themselves by work; antinomians and rebels in manners, ambitious and
insatiable, without equilibrium and enjoyment; all of them finally
shattering and sinking down at the Christian cross (and with right
and reason, for who of them would have been sufficiently profound and
sufficiently original for an ANTI-CHRISTIAN philosophy?);--on the
whole, a boldly daring, splendidly overbearing, high-flying, and
aloft-up-dragging class of higher men, who had first to teach their
century--and it is the century of the MASSES--the conception "higher
man."... Let the German friends of Richard Wagner advise together as to
whether there is anything purely German in the Wagnerian art, or whether
its distinction does not consist precisely in coming from SUPER-GERMAN
sources and impulses: in which connection it may not be underrated
how indispensable Paris was to the development of his type, which the
strength of his instincts made him long to visit at the most
decisive time--and how the whole style of his proceedings, of his
self-apostolate, could only perfect itself in sight of the French
socialistic original. On a more subtle comparison it will perhaps be
found, to the honour of Richard Wagner's German nature, that he has
acted in everything with more strength, daring, severity, and elevation
than a nineteenth-century Frenchman could have done--owing to the
circumstance that we Germans are as yet nearer to barbarism than the
French;--perhaps even the most remarkable creation of Richard Wagner is
not only at present, but for ever inaccessible, incomprehensible, and
inimitable to the whole latter-day Latin race: the figure of Siegfried,
that VERY FREE man, who is probably far too free, too hard, too
cheerful, too healthy, too ANTI-CATHOLIC for the taste of old and mellow
civilized nations. He may even have been a sin against Romanticism, this
anti-Latin Siegfried: well, Wagner atoned amply for this sin in his old
sad days, when--anticipating a taste which has meanwhile passed into
politics--he began, with the religious vehemence peculiar to him, to
preach, at least, THE WAY TO ROME, if not to walk therein.--That
these last words may not be misunderstood, I will call to my aid a few
powerful rhymes, which will even betray to less delicate ears what I
mean--what I mean COUNTER TO the "last Wagner" and his Parsifal music:--

--Is this our mode?--From German heart came this vexed ululating? From
German body, this self-lacerating? Is ours this priestly hand-dilation,
This incense-fuming exaltation? Is ours this faltering, falling,
shambling, This quite uncertain ding-dong-dangling? This sly
nun-ogling, Ave-hour-bell ringing, This wholly false enraptured
heaven-o'erspringing?--Is this our mode?--Think well!--ye still wait for
admission--For what ye hear is ROME--ROME'S FAITH BY INTUITION!



CHAPTER IX. WHAT IS NOBLE?


257. EVERY elevation of the type "man," has hitherto been the work of an
aristocratic society and so it will always be--a society believing in
a long scale of gradations of rank and differences of worth among human
beings, and requiring slavery in some form or other. Without the PATHOS
OF DISTANCE, such as grows out of the incarnated difference of classes,
out of the constant out-looking and down-looking of the ruling caste on
subordinates and instruments, and out of their equally constant
practice of obeying and commanding, of keeping down and keeping at a
distance--that other more mysterious pathos could never have arisen, the
longing for an ever new widening of distance within the soul itself,
the formation of ever higher, rarer, further, more extended, more
comprehensive states, in short, just the elevation of the type "man,"
the continued "self-surmounting of man," to use a moral formula in
a supermoral sense. To be sure, one must not resign oneself to
any humanitarian illusions about the history of the origin of an
aristocratic society (that is to say, of the preliminary condition for
the elevation of the type "man"): the truth is hard. Let us acknowledge
unprejudicedly how every higher civilization hitherto has ORIGINATED!
Men with a still natural nature, barbarians in every terrible sense of
the word, men of prey, still in possession of unbroken strength of will
and desire for power, threw themselves upon weaker, more moral, more
peaceful races (perhaps trading or cattle-rearing communities), or upon
old mellow civilizations in which the final vital force was flickering
out in brilliant fireworks of wit and depravity. At the commencement,
the noble caste was always the barbarian caste: their superiority did
not consist first of all in their physical, but in their psychical
power--they were more COMPLETE men (which at every point also implies
the same as "more complete beasts").

258. Corruption--as the indication that anarchy threatens to break out
among the instincts, and that the foundation of the emotions, called
"life," is convulsed--is something radically different according to
the organization in which it manifests itself. When, for instance, an
aristocracy like that of France at the beginning of the Revolution,
flung away its privileges with sublime disgust and sacrificed itself
to an excess of its moral sentiments, it was corruption:--it was really
only the closing act of the corruption which had existed for centuries,
by virtue of which that aristocracy had abdicated step by step its
lordly prerogatives and lowered itself to a FUNCTION of royalty (in
the end even to its decoration and parade-dress). The essential thing,
however, in a good and healthy aristocracy is that it should not regard
itself as a function either of the kingship or the commonwealth, but
as the SIGNIFICANCE and highest justification thereof--that it should
therefore accept with a good conscience the sacrifice of a legion
of individuals, who, FOR ITS SAKE, must be suppressed and reduced to
imperfect men, to slaves and instruments. Its fundamental belief must
be precisely that society is NOT allowed to exist for its own sake, but
only as a foundation and scaffolding, by means of which a select class
of beings may be able to elevate themselves to their higher duties, and
in general to a higher EXISTENCE: like those sun-seeking climbing plants
in Java--they are called Sipo Matador,--which encircle an oak so
long and so often with their arms, until at last, high above it, but
supported by it, they can unfold their tops in the open light, and
exhibit their happiness.

259. To refrain mutually from injury, from violence, from exploitation,
and put one's will on a par with that of others: this may result in a
certain rough sense in good conduct among individuals when the necessary
conditions are given (namely, the actual similarity of the individuals
in amount of force and degree of worth, and their co-relation within one
organization). As soon, however, as one wished to take this principle
more generally, and if possible even as the FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLE OF
SOCIETY, it would immediately disclose what it really is--namely, a Will
to the DENIAL of life, a principle of dissolution and decay. Here one
must think profoundly to the very basis and resist all sentimental
weakness: life itself is ESSENTIALLY appropriation, injury, conquest
of the strange and weak, suppression, severity, obtrusion of
peculiar forms, incorporation, and at the least, putting it mildest,
exploitation;--but why should one for ever use precisely these words
on which for ages a disparaging purpose has been stamped? Even the
organization within which, as was previously supposed, the
individuals treat each other as equal--it takes place in every
healthy aristocracy--must itself, if it be a living and not a dying
organization, do all that towards other bodies, which the individuals
within it refrain from doing to each other it will have to be the
incarnated Will to Power, it will endeavour to grow, to gain ground,
attract to itself and acquire ascendancy--not owing to any morality or
immorality, but because it LIVES, and because life IS precisely Will to
Power. On no point, however, is the ordinary consciousness of Europeans
more unwilling to be corrected than on this matter, people now rave
everywhere, even under the guise of science, about coming conditions of
society in which "the exploiting character" is to be absent--that sounds
to my ears as if they promised to invent a mode of life which should
refrain from all organic functions. "Exploitation" does not belong to a
depraved, or imperfect and primitive society it belongs to the nature of
the living being as a primary organic function, it is a consequence
of the intrinsic Will to Power, which is precisely the Will to
Life--Granting that as a theory this is a novelty--as a reality it is
the FUNDAMENTAL FACT of all history let us be so far honest towards
ourselves!

260. In a tour through the many finer and coarser moralities which have
hitherto prevailed or still prevail on the earth, I found certain traits
recurring regularly together, and connected with one another, until
finally two primary types revealed themselves to me, and a radical
distinction was brought to light. There is MASTER-MORALITY and
SLAVE-MORALITY,--I would at once add, however, that in all higher and
mixed civilizations, there are also attempts at the reconciliation of
the two moralities, but one finds still oftener the confusion and
mutual misunderstanding of them, indeed sometimes their close
juxtaposition--even in the same man, within one soul. The distinctions
of moral values have either originated in a ruling caste, pleasantly
conscious of being different from the ruled--or among the ruled class,
the slaves and dependents of all sorts. In the first case, when it is
the rulers who determine the conception "good," it is the exalted, proud
disposition which is regarded as the distinguishing feature, and that
which determines the order of rank. The noble type of man separates
from himself the beings in whom the opposite of this exalted, proud
disposition displays itself he despises them. Let it at once be noted
that in this first kind of morality the antithesis "good" and "bad"
means practically the same as "noble" and "despicable",--the antithesis
"good" and "EVIL" is of a different origin. The cowardly, the timid, the
insignificant, and those thinking merely of narrow utility are despised;
moreover, also, the distrustful, with their constrained glances, the
self-abasing, the dog-like kind of men who let themselves be abused,
the mendicant flatterers, and above all the liars:--it is a fundamental
belief of all aristocrats that the common people are untruthful. "We
truthful ones"--the nobility in ancient Greece called themselves. It is
obvious that everywhere the designations of moral value were at first
applied to MEN; and were only derivatively and at a later period applied
to ACTIONS; it is a gross mistake, therefore, when historians of morals
start with questions like, "Why have sympathetic actions been praised?"
The noble type of man regards HIMSELF as a determiner of values; he
does not require to be approved of; he passes the judgment: "What is
injurious to me is injurious in itself;" he knows that it is he himself
only who confers honour on things; he is a CREATOR OF VALUES. He
honours whatever he recognizes in himself: such morality equals
self-glorification. In the foreground there is the feeling of plenitude,
of power, which seeks to overflow, the happiness of high tension, the
consciousness of a wealth which would fain give and bestow:--the noble
man also helps the unfortunate, but not--or scarcely--out of pity, but
rather from an impulse generated by the super-abundance of power. The
noble man honours in himself the powerful one, him also who has power
over himself, who knows how to speak and how to keep silence, who
takes pleasure in subjecting himself to severity and hardness, and has
reverence for all that is severe and hard. "Wotan placed a hard heart in
my breast," says an old Scandinavian Saga: it is thus rightly expressed
from the soul of a proud Viking. Such a type of man is even proud of not
being made for sympathy; the hero of the Saga therefore adds warningly:
"He who has not a hard heart when young, will never have one." The noble
and brave who think thus are the furthest removed from the morality
which sees precisely in sympathy, or in acting for the good of others,
or in DESINTERESSEMENT, the characteristic of the moral; faith
in oneself, pride in oneself, a radical enmity and irony towards
"selflessness," belong as definitely to noble morality, as do a careless
scorn and precaution in presence of sympathy and the "warm heart."--It
is the powerful who KNOW how to honour, it is their art, their domain
for invention. The profound reverence for age and for tradition--all law
rests on this double reverence,--the belief and prejudice in favour of
ancestors and unfavourable to newcomers, is typical in the morality of
the powerful; and if, reversely, men of "modern ideas" believe almost
instinctively in "progress" and the "future," and are more and more
lacking in respect for old age, the ignoble origin of these "ideas" has
complacently betrayed itself thereby. A morality of the ruling class,
however, is more especially foreign and irritating to present-day taste
in the sternness of its principle that one has duties only to one's
equals; that one may act towards beings of a lower rank, towards all
that is foreign, just as seems good to one, or "as the heart desires,"
and in any case "beyond good and evil": it is here that sympathy and
similar sentiments can have a place. The ability and obligation to
exercise prolonged gratitude and prolonged revenge--both only within the
circle of equals,--artfulness in retaliation, RAFFINEMENT of the idea
in friendship, a certain necessity to have enemies (as outlets for the
emotions of envy, quarrelsomeness, arrogance--in fact, in order to be
a good FRIEND): all these are typical characteristics of the noble
morality, which, as has been pointed out, is not the morality of "modern
ideas," and is therefore at present difficult to realize, and also to
unearth and disclose.--It is otherwise with the second type of morality,
SLAVE-MORALITY. Supposing that the abused, the oppressed, the suffering,
the unemancipated, the weary, and those uncertain of themselves should
moralize, what will be the common element in their moral estimates?
Probably a pessimistic suspicion with regard to the entire situation of
man will find expression, perhaps a condemnation of man, together with
his situation. The slave has an unfavourable eye for the virtues of the
powerful; he has a skepticism and distrust, a REFINEMENT of distrust of
everything "good" that is there honoured--he would fain persuade himself
that the very happiness there is not genuine. On the other hand, THOSE
qualities which serve to alleviate the existence of sufferers are
brought into prominence and flooded with light; it is here that
sympathy, the kind, helping hand, the warm heart, patience, diligence,
humility, and friendliness attain to honour; for here these are the most
useful qualities, and almost the only means of supporting the burden of
existence. Slave-morality is essentially the morality of utility.
Here is the seat of the origin of the famous antithesis "good" and
"evil":--power and dangerousness are assumed to reside in the evil,
a certain dreadfulness, subtlety, and strength, which do not admit of
being despised. According to slave-morality, therefore, the "evil" man
arouses fear; according to master-morality, it is precisely the "good"
man who arouses fear and seeks to arouse it, while the bad man is
regarded as the despicable being. The contrast attains its maximum when,
in accordance with the logical consequences of slave-morality, a shade
of depreciation--it may be slight and well-intentioned--at last attaches
itself to the "good" man of this morality; because, according to the
servile mode of thought, the good man must in any case be the SAFE
man: he is good-natured, easily deceived, perhaps a little stupid, un
bonhomme. Everywhere that slave-morality gains the ascendancy, language
shows a tendency to approximate the significations of the words "good"
and "stupid."--A last fundamental difference: the desire for FREEDOM,
the instinct for happiness and the refinements of the feeling of liberty
belong as necessarily to slave-morals and morality, as artifice and
enthusiasm in reverence and devotion are the regular symptoms of an
aristocratic mode of thinking and estimating.--Hence we can understand
without further detail why love AS A PASSION--it is our European
specialty--must absolutely be of noble origin; as is well known, its
invention is due to the Provencal poet-cavaliers, those brilliant,
ingenious men of the "gai saber," to whom Europe owes so much, and
almost owes itself.

261. Vanity is one of the things which are perhaps most difficult for
a noble man to understand: he will be tempted to deny it, where another
kind of man thinks he sees it self-evidently. The problem for him is
to represent to his mind beings who seek to arouse a good opinion of
themselves which they themselves do not possess--and consequently also
do not "deserve,"--and who yet BELIEVE in this good opinion
afterwards. This seems to him on the one hand such bad taste and so
self-disrespectful, and on the other hand so grotesquely unreasonable,
that he would like to consider vanity an exception, and is doubtful
about it in most cases when it is spoken of. He will say, for
instance: "I may be mistaken about my value, and on the other hand
may nevertheless demand that my value should be acknowledged by others
precisely as I rate it:--that, however, is not vanity (but self-conceit,
or, in most cases, that which is called 'humility,' and also
'modesty')." Or he will even say: "For many reasons I can delight in
the good opinion of others, perhaps because I love and honour them,
and rejoice in all their joys, perhaps also because their good opinion
endorses and strengthens my belief in my own good opinion, perhaps
because the good opinion of others, even in cases where I do not share
it, is useful to me, or gives promise of usefulness:--all this, however,
is not vanity." The man of noble character must first bring it home
forcibly to his mind, especially with the aid of history, that, from
time immemorial, in all social strata in any way dependent, the ordinary
man WAS only that which he PASSED FOR:--not being at all accustomed to
fix values, he did not assign even to himself any other value than that
which his master assigned to him (it is the peculiar RIGHT OF MASTERS to
create values). It may be looked upon as the result of an extraordinary
atavism, that the ordinary man, even at present, is still always WAITING
for an opinion about himself, and then instinctively submitting himself
to it; yet by no means only to a "good" opinion, but also to a bad
and unjust one (think, for instance, of the greater part of the
self-appreciations and self-depreciations which believing women learn
from their confessors, and which in general the believing Christian
learns from his Church). In fact, conformably to the slow rise of the
democratic social order (and its cause, the blending of the blood
of masters and slaves), the originally noble and rare impulse of
the masters to assign a value to themselves and to "think well" of
themselves, will now be more and more encouraged and extended; but
it has at all times an older, ampler, and more radically ingrained
propensity opposed to it--and in the phenomenon of "vanity" this older
propensity overmasters the younger. The vain person rejoices over EVERY
good opinion which he hears about himself (quite apart from the point
of view of its usefulness, and equally regardless of its truth or
falsehood), just as he suffers from every bad opinion: for he subjects
himself to both, he feels himself subjected to both, by that oldest
instinct of subjection which breaks forth in him.--It is "the slave"
in the vain man's blood, the remains of the slave's craftiness--and how
much of the "slave" is still left in woman, for instance!--which
seeks to SEDUCE to good opinions of itself; it is the slave, too, who
immediately afterwards falls prostrate himself before these opinions, as
though he had not called them forth.--And to repeat it again: vanity is
an atavism.

262. A SPECIES originates, and a type becomes established and strong in
the long struggle with essentially constant UNFAVOURABLE conditions. On
the other hand, it is known by the experience of breeders that species
which receive super-abundant nourishment, and in general a surplus of
protection and care, immediately tend in the most marked way to develop
variations, and are fertile in prodigies and monstrosities (also in
monstrous vices). Now look at an aristocratic commonwealth, say
an ancient Greek polis, or Venice, as a voluntary or involuntary
contrivance for the purpose of REARING human beings; there are there men
beside one another, thrown upon their own resources, who want to make
their species prevail, chiefly because they MUST prevail, or else
run the terrible danger of being exterminated. The favour, the
super-abundance, the protection are there lacking under which variations
are fostered; the species needs itself as species, as something which,
precisely by virtue of its hardness, its uniformity, and simplicity of
structure, can in general prevail and make itself permanent in
constant struggle with its neighbours, or with rebellious or
rebellion-threatening vassals. The most varied experience teaches it
what are the qualities to which it principally owes the fact that
it still exists, in spite of all Gods and men, and has hitherto been
victorious: these qualities it calls virtues, and these virtues alone
it develops to maturity. It does so with severity, indeed it desires
severity; every aristocratic morality is intolerant in the education
of youth, in the control of women, in the marriage customs, in the
relations of old and young, in the penal laws (which have an eye only
for the degenerating): it counts intolerance itself among the virtues,
under the name of "justice." A type with few, but very marked features,
a species of severe, warlike, wisely silent, reserved, and reticent
men (and as such, with the most delicate sensibility for the charm and
nuances of society) is thus established, unaffected by the vicissitudes
of generations; the constant struggle with uniform UNFAVOURABLE
conditions is, as already remarked, the cause of a type becoming
stable and hard. Finally, however, a happy state of things results, the
enormous tension is relaxed; there are perhaps no more enemies among the
neighbouring peoples, and the means of life, even of the enjoyment
of life, are present in superabundance. With one stroke the bond and
constraint of the old discipline severs: it is no longer regarded as
necessary, as a condition of existence--if it would continue, it can
only do so as a form of LUXURY, as an archaizing TASTE. Variations,
whether they be deviations (into the higher, finer, and rarer), or
deteriorations and monstrosities, appear suddenly on the scene in the
greatest exuberance and splendour; the individual dares to be individual
and detach himself. At this turning-point of history there manifest
themselves, side by side, and often mixed and entangled together, a
magnificent, manifold, virgin-forest-like up-growth and up-striving, a
kind of TROPICAL TEMPO in the rivalry of growth, and an extraordinary
decay and self-destruction, owing to the savagely opposing and seemingly
exploding egoisms, which strive with one another "for sun and light,"
and can no longer assign any limit, restraint, or forbearance for
themselves by means of the hitherto existing morality. It was this
morality itself which piled up the strength so enormously, which bent
the bow in so threatening a manner:--it is now "out of date," it is
getting "out of date." The dangerous and disquieting point has been
reached when the greater, more manifold, more comprehensive life IS
LIVED BEYOND the old morality; the "individual" stands out, and is
obliged to have recourse to his own law-giving, his own arts and
artifices for self-preservation, self-elevation, and self-deliverance.
Nothing but new "Whys," nothing but new "Hows," no common formulas any
longer, misunderstanding and disregard in league with each other, decay,
deterioration, and the loftiest desires frightfully entangled, the
genius of the race overflowing from all the cornucopias of good and bad,
a portentous simultaneousness of Spring and Autumn, full of new charms
and mysteries peculiar to the fresh, still inexhausted, still unwearied
corruption. Danger is again present, the mother of morality, great
danger; this time shifted into the individual, into the neighbour and
friend, into the street, into their own child, into their own heart,
into all the most personal and secret recesses of their desires and
volitions. What will the moral philosophers who appear at this time have
to preach? They discover, these sharp onlookers and loafers, that the
end is quickly approaching, that everything around them decays and
produces decay, that nothing will endure until the day after tomorrow,
except one species of man, the incurably MEDIOCRE. The mediocre alone
have a prospect of continuing and propagating themselves--they will
be the men of the future, the sole survivors; "be like them! become
mediocre!" is now the only morality which has still a significance,
which still obtains a hearing.--But it is difficult to preach this
morality of mediocrity! it can never avow what it is and what it
desires! it has to talk of moderation and dignity and duty and brotherly
love--it will have difficulty IN CONCEALING ITS IRONY!

263. There is an INSTINCT FOR RANK, which more than anything else is
already the sign of a HIGH rank; there is a DELIGHT in the NUANCES
of reverence which leads one to infer noble origin and habits. The
refinement, goodness, and loftiness of a soul are put to a perilous test
when something passes by that is of the highest rank, but is not
yet protected by the awe of authority from obtrusive touches and
incivilities: something that goes its way like a living touchstone,
undistinguished, undiscovered, and tentative, perhaps voluntarily veiled
and disguised. He whose task and practice it is to investigate souls,
will avail himself of many varieties of this very art to determine the
ultimate value of a soul, the unalterable, innate order of rank to which
it belongs: he will test it by its INSTINCT FOR REVERENCE. DIFFERENCE
ENGENDRE HAINE: the vulgarity of many a nature spurts up suddenly like
dirty water, when any holy vessel, any jewel from closed shrines, any
book bearing the marks of great destiny, is brought before it; while
on the other hand, there is an involuntary silence, a hesitation of the
eye, a cessation of all gestures, by which it is indicated that a soul
FEELS the nearness of what is worthiest of respect. The way in which, on
the whole, the reverence for the BIBLE has hitherto been maintained
in Europe, is perhaps the best example of discipline and refinement of
manners which Europe owes to Christianity: books of such profoundness
and supreme significance require for their protection an external
tyranny of authority, in order to acquire the PERIOD of thousands of
years which is necessary to exhaust and unriddle them. Much has been
achieved when the sentiment has been at last instilled into the masses
(the shallow-pates and the boobies of every kind) that they are not
allowed to touch everything, that there are holy experiences before
which they must take off their shoes and keep away the unclean hand--it
is almost their highest advance towards humanity. On the contrary, in
the so-called cultured classes, the believers in "modern ideas," nothing
is perhaps so repulsive as their lack of shame, the easy insolence of
eye and hand with which they touch, taste, and finger everything; and it
is possible that even yet there is more RELATIVE nobility of taste, and
more tact for reverence among the people, among the lower classes of
the people, especially among peasants, than among the newspaper-reading
DEMIMONDE of intellect, the cultured class.

264. It cannot be effaced from a man's soul what his ancestors have
preferably and most constantly done: whether they were perhaps diligent
economizers attached to a desk and a cash-box, modest and citizen-like
in their desires, modest also in their virtues; or whether they were
accustomed to commanding from morning till night, fond of rude pleasures
and probably of still ruder duties and responsibilities; or whether,
finally, at one time or another, they have sacrificed old privileges of
birth and possession, in order to live wholly for their faith--for their
"God,"--as men of an inexorable and sensitive conscience, which blushes
at every compromise. It is quite impossible for a man NOT to have
the qualities and predilections of his parents and ancestors in his
constitution, whatever appearances may suggest to the contrary. This is
the problem of race. Granted that one knows something of the parents,
it is admissible to draw a conclusion about the child: any kind
of offensive incontinence, any kind of sordid envy, or of clumsy
self-vaunting--the three things which together have constituted the
genuine plebeian type in all times--such must pass over to the child, as
surely as bad blood; and with the help of the best education and culture
one will only succeed in DECEIVING with regard to such heredity.--And
what else does education and culture try to do nowadays! In our very
democratic, or rather, very plebeian age, "education" and "culture" MUST
be essentially the art of deceiving--deceiving with regard to origin,
with regard to the inherited plebeianism in body and soul. An educator
who nowadays preached truthfulness above everything else, and called out
constantly to his pupils: "Be true! Be natural! Show yourselves as you
are!"--even such a virtuous and sincere ass would learn in a short time
to have recourse to the FURCA of Horace, NATURAM EXPELLERE: with what
results? "Plebeianism" USQUE RECURRET. [FOOTNOTE: Horace's "Epistles,"
I. x. 24.]

265. At the risk of displeasing innocent ears, I submit that egoism
belongs to the essence of a noble soul, I mean the unalterable belief
that to a being such as "we," other beings must naturally be in
subjection, and have to sacrifice themselves. The noble soul accepts the
fact of his egoism without question, and also without consciousness of
harshness, constraint, or arbitrariness therein, but rather as something
that may have its basis in the primary law of things:--if he sought a
designation for it he would say: "It is justice itself." He acknowledges
under certain circumstances, which made him hesitate at first, that
there are other equally privileged ones; as soon as he has settled this
question of rank, he moves among those equals and equally privileged
ones with the same assurance, as regards modesty and delicate respect,
which he enjoys in intercourse with himself--in accordance with an
innate heavenly mechanism which all the stars understand. It is an
ADDITIONAL instance of his egoism, this artfulness and self-limitation
in intercourse with his equals--every star is a similar egoist; he
honours HIMSELF in them, and in the rights which he concedes to them, he
has no doubt that the exchange of honours and rights, as the ESSENCE of
all intercourse, belongs also to the natural condition of things. The
noble soul gives as he takes, prompted by the passionate and sensitive
instinct of requital, which is at the root of his nature. The notion of
"favour" has, INTER PARES, neither significance nor good repute; there
may be a sublime way of letting gifts as it were light upon one from
above, and of drinking them thirstily like dew-drops; but for those
arts and displays the noble soul has no aptitude. His egoism hinders him
here: in general, he looks "aloft" unwillingly--he looks either FORWARD,
horizontally and deliberately, or downwards--HE KNOWS THAT HE IS ON A
HEIGHT.

266. "One can only truly esteem him who does not LOOK OUT FOR
himself."--Goethe to Rath Schlosser.

267. The Chinese have a proverb which mothers even teach their children:
"SIAO-SIN" ("MAKE THY HEART SMALL"). This is the essentially fundamental
tendency in latter-day civilizations. I have no doubt that an ancient
Greek, also, would first of all remark the self-dwarfing in us Europeans
of today--in this respect alone we should immediately be "distasteful"
to him.

268. What, after all, is ignobleness?--Words are vocal symbols for
ideas; ideas, however, are more or less definite mental symbols
for frequently returning and concurring sensations, for groups of
sensations. It is not sufficient to use the same words in order to
understand one another: we must also employ the same words for the same
kind of internal experiences, we must in the end have experiences IN
COMMON. On this account the people of one nation understand one another
better than those belonging to different nations, even when they use
the same language; or rather, when people have lived long together under
similar conditions (of climate, soil, danger, requirement, toil) there
ORIGINATES therefrom an entity that "understands itself"--namely, a
nation. In all souls a like number of frequently recurring experiences
have gained the upper hand over those occurring more rarely: about
these matters people understand one another rapidly and always more
rapidly--the history of language is the history of a process of
abbreviation; on the basis of this quick comprehension people always
unite closer and closer. The greater the danger, the greater is the
need of agreeing quickly and readily about what is necessary; not to
misunderstand one another in danger--that is what cannot at all be
dispensed with in intercourse. Also in all loves and friendships one has
the experience that nothing of the kind continues when the discovery
has been made that in using the same words, one of the two parties has
feelings, thoughts, intuitions, wishes, or fears different from those of
the other. (The fear of the "eternal misunderstanding": that is the good
genius which so often keeps persons of different sexes from too
hasty attachments, to which sense and heart prompt them--and NOT some
Schopenhauerian "genius of the species"!) Whichever groups of sensations
within a soul awaken most readily, begin to speak, and give the word of
command--these decide as to the general order of rank of its values, and
determine ultimately its list of desirable things. A man's estimates of
value betray something of the STRUCTURE of his soul, and wherein it
sees its conditions of life, its intrinsic needs. Supposing now that
necessity has from all time drawn together only such men as could
express similar requirements and similar experiences by similar symbols,
it results on the whole that the easy COMMUNICABILITY of need,
which implies ultimately the undergoing only of average and COMMON
experiences, must have been the most potent of all the forces which
have hitherto operated upon mankind. The more similar, the more ordinary
people, have always had and are still having the advantage; the more
select, more refined, more unique, and difficultly comprehensible, are
liable to stand alone; they succumb to accidents in their isolation, and
seldom propagate themselves. One must appeal to immense opposing forces,
in order to thwart this natural, all-too-natural PROGRESSUS IN SIMILE,
the evolution of man to the similar, the ordinary, the average, the
gregarious--to the IGNOBLE--!

269. The more a psychologist--a born, an unavoidable psychologist
and soul-diviner--turns his attention to the more select cases and
individuals, the greater is his danger of being suffocated by sympathy:
he NEEDS sternness and cheerfulness more than any other man. For
the corruption, the ruination of higher men, of the more unusually
constituted souls, is in fact, the rule: it is dreadful to have such a
rule always before one's eyes. The manifold torment of the psychologist
who has discovered this ruination, who discovers once, and then
discovers ALMOST repeatedly throughout all history, this universal
inner "desperateness" of higher men, this eternal "too late!" in every
sense--may perhaps one day be the cause of his turning with
bitterness against his own lot, and of his making an attempt at
self-destruction--of his "going to ruin" himself. One may perceive
in almost every psychologist a tell-tale inclination for delightful
intercourse with commonplace and well-ordered men; the fact is thereby
disclosed that he always requires healing, that he needs a sort
of flight and forgetfulness, away from what his insight and
incisiveness--from what his "business"--has laid upon his conscience.
The fear of his memory is peculiar to him. He is easily silenced by the
judgment of others; he hears with unmoved countenance how people honour,
admire, love, and glorify, where he has PERCEIVED--or he even conceals
his silence by expressly assenting to some plausible opinion. Perhaps
the paradox of his situation becomes so dreadful that, precisely
where he has learnt GREAT SYMPATHY, together with great CONTEMPT, the
multitude, the educated, and the visionaries, have on their part learnt
great reverence--reverence for "great men" and marvelous animals, for
the sake of whom one blesses and honours the fatherland, the earth, the
dignity of mankind, and one's own self, to whom one points the young,
and in view of whom one educates them. And who knows but in all great
instances hitherto just the same happened: that the multitude worshipped
a God, and that the "God" was only a poor sacrificial animal! SUCCESS
has always been the greatest liar--and the "work" itself is a success;
the great statesman, the conqueror, the discoverer, are disguised in
their creations until they are unrecognizable; the "work" of the artist,
of the philosopher, only invents him who has created it, is REPUTED
to have created it; the "great men," as they are reverenced, are poor
little fictions composed afterwards; in the world of historical values
spurious coinage PREVAILS. Those great poets, for example, such as
Byron, Musset, Poe, Leopardi, Kleist, Gogol (I do not venture to mention
much greater names, but I have them in my mind), as they now appear, and
were perhaps obliged to be: men of the moment, enthusiastic, sensuous,
and childish, light-minded and impulsive in their trust and distrust;
with souls in which usually some flaw has to be concealed; often taking
revenge with their works for an internal defilement, often seeking
forgetfulness in their soaring from a too true memory, often lost in
the mud and almost in love with it, until they become like the
Will-o'-the-Wisps around the swamps, and PRETEND TO BE stars--the people
then call them idealists,--often struggling with protracted disgust,
with an ever-reappearing phantom of disbelief, which makes them cold,
and obliges them to languish for GLORIA and devour "faith as it is"
out of the hands of intoxicated adulators:--what a TORMENT these great
artists are and the so-called higher men in general, to him who has once
found them out! It is thus conceivable that it is just from woman--who
is clairvoyant in the world of suffering, and also unfortunately eager
to help and save to an extent far beyond her powers--that THEY have
learnt so readily those outbreaks of boundless devoted SYMPATHY, which
the multitude, above all the reverent multitude, do not understand,
and overwhelm with prying and self-gratifying interpretations. This
sympathizing invariably deceives itself as to its power; woman would
like to believe that love can do EVERYTHING--it is the SUPERSTITION
peculiar to her. Alas, he who knows the heart finds out how poor,
helpless, pretentious, and blundering even the best and deepest love
is--he finds that it rather DESTROYS than saves!--It is possible that
under the holy fable and travesty of the life of Jesus there is hidden
one of the most painful cases of the martyrdom of KNOWLEDGE ABOUT LOVE:
the martyrdom of the most innocent and most craving heart, that
never had enough of any human love, that DEMANDED love, that demanded
inexorably and frantically to be loved and nothing else, with terrible
outbursts against those who refused him their love; the story of a poor
soul insatiated and insatiable in love, that had to invent hell to send
thither those who WOULD NOT love him--and that at last, enlightened
about human love, had to invent a God who is entire love, entire
CAPACITY for love--who takes pity on human love, because it is so
paltry, so ignorant! He who has such sentiments, he who has such
KNOWLEDGE about love--SEEKS for death!--But why should one deal with
such painful matters? Provided, of course, that one is not obliged to do
so.

270. The intellectual haughtiness and loathing of every man who has
suffered deeply--it almost determines the order of rank HOW deeply men
can suffer--the chilling certainty, with which he is thoroughly imbued
and coloured, that by virtue of his suffering he KNOWS MORE than the
shrewdest and wisest can ever know, that he has been familiar with,
and "at home" in, many distant, dreadful worlds of which "YOU know
nothing"!--this silent intellectual haughtiness of the sufferer, this
pride of the elect of knowledge, of the "initiated," of the almost
sacrificed, finds all forms of disguise necessary to protect itself from
contact with officious and sympathizing hands, and in general from all
that is not its equal in suffering. Profound suffering makes noble:
it separates.--One of the most refined forms of disguise is Epicurism,
along with a certain ostentatious boldness of taste, which takes
suffering lightly, and puts itself on the defensive against all that
is sorrowful and profound. They are "gay men" who make use of gaiety,
because they are misunderstood on account of it--they WISH to be
misunderstood. There are "scientific minds" who make use of science,
because it gives a gay appearance, and because scientificness leads to
the conclusion that a person is superficial--they WISH to mislead to a
false conclusion. There are free insolent minds which would fain conceal
and deny that they are broken, proud, incurable hearts (the cynicism of
Hamlet--the case of Galiani); and occasionally folly itself is the mask
of an unfortunate OVER-ASSURED knowledge.--From which it follows that it
is the part of a more refined humanity to have reverence "for the mask,"
and not to make use of psychology and curiosity in the wrong place.

271. That which separates two men most profoundly is a different sense
and grade of purity. What does it matter about all their honesty and
reciprocal usefulness, what does it matter about all their mutual
good-will: the fact still remains--they "cannot smell each other!" The
highest instinct for purity places him who is affected with it in the
most extraordinary and dangerous isolation, as a saint: for it is just
holiness--the highest spiritualization of the instinct in question. Any
kind of cognizance of an indescribable excess in the joy of the bath,
any kind of ardour or thirst which perpetually impels the soul out
of night into the morning, and out of gloom, out of "affliction" into
clearness, brightness, depth, and refinement:--just as much as such a
tendency DISTINGUISHES--it is a noble tendency--it also SEPARATES.--The
pity of the saint is pity for the FILTH of the human, all-too-human.
And there are grades and heights where pity itself is regarded by him as
impurity, as filth.

272. Signs of nobility: never to think of lowering our duties to the
rank of duties for everybody; to be unwilling to renounce or to share
our responsibilities; to count our prerogatives, and the exercise of
them, among our DUTIES.

273. A man who strives after great things, looks upon every one whom
he encounters on his way either as a means of advance, or a delay and
hindrance--or as a temporary resting-place. His peculiar lofty BOUNTY
to his fellow-men is only possible when he attains his elevation and
dominates. Impatience, and the consciousness of being always condemned
to comedy up to that time--for even strife is a comedy, and conceals the
end, as every means does--spoil all intercourse for him; this kind of
man is acquainted with solitude, and what is most poisonous in it.

274. THE PROBLEM OF THOSE WHO WAIT.--Happy chances are necessary, and
many incalculable elements, in order that a higher man in whom the
solution of a problem is dormant, may yet take action, or "break forth,"
as one might say--at the right moment. On an average it DOES NOT happen;
and in all corners of the earth there are waiting ones sitting who
hardly know to what extent they are waiting, and still less that they
wait in vain. Occasionally, too, the waking call comes too late--the
chance which gives "permission" to take action--when their best youth,
and strength for action have been used up in sitting still; and how many
a one, just as he "sprang up," has found with horror that his limbs are
benumbed and his spirits are now too heavy! "It is too late," he has
said to himself--and has become self-distrustful and henceforth for ever
useless.--In the domain of genius, may not the "Raphael without
hands" (taking the expression in its widest sense) perhaps not be the
exception, but the rule?--Perhaps genius is by no means so rare: but
rather the five hundred HANDS which it requires in order to tyrannize
over the [GREEK INSERTED HERE], "the right time"--in order to take
chance by the forelock!

275. He who does not WISH to see the height of a man, looks all the
more sharply at what is low in him, and in the foreground--and thereby
betrays himself.

276. In all kinds of injury and loss the lower and coarser soul is
better off than the nobler soul: the dangers of the latter must be
greater, the probability that it will come to grief and perish is in
fact immense, considering the multiplicity of the conditions of its
existence.--In a lizard a finger grows again which has been lost; not so
in man.--

277. It is too bad! Always the old story! When a man has finished
building his house, he finds that he has learnt unawares something
which he OUGHT absolutely to have known before he--began to build. The
eternal, fatal "Too late!" The melancholia of everything COMPLETED--!

278.--Wanderer, who art thou? I see thee follow thy path without scorn,
without love, with unfathomable eyes, wet and sad as a plummet which has
returned to the light insatiated out of every depth--what did it seek
down there?--with a bosom that never sighs, with lips that conceal their
loathing, with a hand which only slowly grasps: who art thou? what
hast thou done? Rest thee here: this place has hospitality for every
one--refresh thyself! And whoever thou art, what is it that now pleases
thee? What will serve to refresh thee? Only name it, whatever I have
I offer thee! "To refresh me? To refresh me? Oh, thou prying one,
what sayest thou! But give me, I pray thee---" What? what? Speak out!
"Another mask! A second mask!"

279. Men of profound sadness betray themselves when they are happy: they
have a mode of seizing upon happiness as though they would choke and
strangle it, out of jealousy--ah, they know only too well that it will
flee from them!

280. "Bad! Bad! What? Does he not--go back?" Yes! But you misunderstand
him when you complain about it. He goes back like every one who is about
to make a great spring.

281.--"Will people believe it of me? But I insist that they believe it
of me: I have always thought very unsatisfactorily of myself and about
myself, only in very rare cases, only compulsorily, always without
delight in 'the subject,' ready to digress from 'myself,' and always
without faith in the result, owing to an unconquerable distrust of the
POSSIBILITY of self-knowledge, which has led me so far as to feel a
CONTRADICTIO IN ADJECTO even in the idea of 'direct knowledge' which
theorists allow themselves:--this matter of fact is almost the most
certain thing I know about myself. There must be a sort of repugnance
in me to BELIEVE anything definite about myself.--Is there perhaps
some enigma therein? Probably; but fortunately nothing for my own
teeth.--Perhaps it betrays the species to which I belong?--but not to
myself, as is sufficiently agreeable to me."

282.--"But what has happened to you?"--"I do not know," he said,
hesitatingly; "perhaps the Harpies have flown over my table."--It
sometimes happens nowadays that a gentle, sober, retiring man becomes
suddenly mad, breaks the plates, upsets the table, shrieks, raves,
and shocks everybody--and finally withdraws, ashamed, and raging at
himself--whither? for what purpose? To famish apart? To suffocate with
his memories?--To him who has the desires of a lofty and dainty soul,
and only seldom finds his table laid and his food prepared, the danger
will always be great--nowadays, however, it is extraordinarily so.
Thrown into the midst of a noisy and plebeian age, with which he does
not like to eat out of the same dish, he may readily perish of hunger
and thirst--or, should he nevertheless finally "fall to," of sudden
nausea.--We have probably all sat at tables to which we did not belong;
and precisely the most spiritual of us, who are most difficult to
nourish, know the dangerous DYSPEPSIA which originates from a sudden
insight and disillusionment about our food and our messmates--the
AFTER-DINNER NAUSEA.

283. If one wishes to praise at all, it is a delicate and at the
same time a noble self-control, to praise only where one DOES NOT
agree--otherwise in fact one would praise oneself, which is contrary
to good taste:--a self-control, to be sure, which offers excellent
opportunity and provocation to constant MISUNDERSTANDING. To be able to
allow oneself this veritable luxury of taste and morality, one must
not live among intellectual imbeciles, but rather among men whose
misunderstandings and mistakes amuse by their refinement--or one will
have to pay dearly for it!--"He praises me, THEREFORE he acknowledges me
to be right"--this asinine method of inference spoils half of the life
of us recluses, for it brings the asses into our neighbourhood and
friendship.

284. To live in a vast and proud tranquility; always beyond... To have,
or not to have, one's emotions, one's For and Against, according to
choice; to lower oneself to them for hours; to SEAT oneself on them as
upon horses, and often as upon asses:--for one must know how to make
use of their stupidity as well as of their fire. To conserve one's
three hundred foregrounds; also one's black spectacles: for there are
circumstances when nobody must look into our eyes, still less into our
"motives." And to choose for company that roguish and cheerful vice,
politeness. And to remain master of one's four virtues, courage,
insight, sympathy, and solitude. For solitude is a virtue with us, as
a sublime bent and bias to purity, which divines that in the contact of
man and man--"in society"--it must be unavoidably impure. All society
makes one somehow, somewhere, or sometime--"commonplace."

285. The greatest events and thoughts--the greatest thoughts, however,
are the greatest events--are longest in being comprehended: the
generations which are contemporary with them do not EXPERIENCE such
events--they live past them. Something happens there as in the realm of
stars. The light of the furthest stars is longest in reaching man; and
before it has arrived man DENIES--that there are stars there. "How
many centuries does a mind require to be understood?"--that is also a
standard, one also makes a gradation of rank and an etiquette therewith,
such as is necessary for mind and for star.

286. "Here is the prospect free, the mind exalted." [FOOTNOTE: Goethe's
"Faust," Part II, Act V. The words of Dr. Marianus.]--But there is a
reverse kind of man, who is also upon a height, and has also a free
prospect--but looks DOWNWARDS.

287. What is noble? What does the word "noble" still mean for us
nowadays? How does the noble man betray himself, how is he recognized
under this heavy overcast sky of the commencing plebeianism, by which
everything is rendered opaque and leaden?--It is not his actions which
establish his claim--actions are always ambiguous, always inscrutable;
neither is it his "works." One finds nowadays among artists and scholars
plenty of those who betray by their works that a profound longing for
nobleness impels them; but this very NEED of nobleness is radically
different from the needs of the noble soul itself, and is in fact the
eloquent and dangerous sign of the lack thereof. It is not the works,
but the BELIEF which is here decisive and determines the order of
rank--to employ once more an old religious formula with a new and deeper
meaning--it is some fundamental certainty which a noble soul has about
itself, something which is not to be sought, is not to be found, and
perhaps, also, is not to be lost.--THE NOBLE SOUL HAS REVERENCE FOR
ITSELF.--

288. There are men who are unavoidably intellectual, let them turn
and twist themselves as they will, and hold their hands before their
treacherous eyes--as though the hand were not a betrayer; it always
comes out at last that they have something which they hide--namely,
intellect. One of the subtlest means of deceiving, at least as long as
possible, and of successfully representing oneself to be stupider
than one really is--which in everyday life is often as desirable as
an umbrella,--is called ENTHUSIASM, including what belongs to it, for
instance, virtue. For as Galiani said, who was obliged to know it: VERTU
EST ENTHOUSIASME.

289. In the writings of a recluse one always hears something of the echo
of the wilderness, something of the murmuring tones and timid vigilance
of solitude; in his strongest words, even in his cry itself, there
sounds a new and more dangerous kind of silence, of concealment. He who
has sat day and night, from year's end to year's end, alone with his
soul in familiar discord and discourse, he who has become a cave-bear,
or a treasure-seeker, or a treasure-guardian and dragon in his cave--it
may be a labyrinth, but can also be a gold-mine--his ideas themselves
eventually acquire a twilight-colour of their own, and an odour, as much
of the depth as of the mould, something uncommunicative and repulsive,
which blows chilly upon every passer-by. The recluse does not believe
that a philosopher--supposing that a philosopher has always in the first
place been a recluse--ever expressed his actual and ultimate opinions in
books: are not books written precisely to hide what is in us?--indeed,
he will doubt whether a philosopher CAN have "ultimate and actual"
opinions at all; whether behind every cave in him there is not, and must
necessarily be, a still deeper cave: an ampler, stranger, richer
world beyond the surface, an abyss behind every bottom, beneath every
"foundation." Every philosophy is a foreground philosophy--this is a
recluse's verdict: "There is something arbitrary in the fact that the
PHILOSOPHER came to a stand here, took a retrospect, and looked around;
that he HERE laid his spade aside and did not dig any deeper--there
is also something suspicious in it." Every philosophy also CONCEALS a
philosophy; every opinion is also a LURKING-PLACE, every word is also a
MASK.

290. Every deep thinker is more afraid of being understood than of being
misunderstood. The latter perhaps wounds his vanity; but the former
wounds his heart, his sympathy, which always says: "Ah, why would you
also have as hard a time of it as I have?"

291. Man, a COMPLEX, mendacious, artful, and inscrutable animal, uncanny
to the other animals by his artifice and sagacity, rather than by his
strength, has invented the good conscience in order finally to enjoy his
soul as something SIMPLE; and the whole of morality is a long, audacious
falsification, by virtue of which generally enjoyment at the sight of
the soul becomes possible. From this point of view there is perhaps much
more in the conception of "art" than is generally believed.

292. A philosopher: that is a man who constantly experiences, sees,
hears, suspects, hopes, and dreams extraordinary things; who is struck
by his own thoughts as if they came from the outside, from above and
below, as a species of events and lightning-flashes PECULIAR TO HIM; who
is perhaps himself a storm pregnant with new lightnings; a portentous
man, around whom there is always rumbling and mumbling and gaping and
something uncanny going on. A philosopher: alas, a being who often
runs away from himself, is often afraid of himself--but whose curiosity
always makes him "come to himself" again.

293. A man who says: "I like that, I take it for my own, and mean to
guard and protect it from every one"; a man who can conduct a case,
carry out a resolution, remain true to an opinion, keep hold of a woman,
punish and overthrow insolence; a man who has his indignation and his
sword, and to whom the weak, the suffering, the oppressed, and even the
animals willingly submit and naturally belong; in short, a man who is a
MASTER by nature--when such a man has sympathy, well! THAT sympathy has
value! But of what account is the sympathy of those who suffer! Or of
those even who preach sympathy! There is nowadays, throughout almost the
whole of Europe, a sickly irritability and sensitiveness towards pain,
and also a repulsive irrestrainableness in complaining, an effeminizing,
which, with the aid of religion and philosophical nonsense, seeks
to deck itself out as something superior--there is a regular cult of
suffering. The UNMANLINESS of that which is called "sympathy" by such
groups of visionaries, is always, I believe, the first thing that
strikes the eye.--One must resolutely and radically taboo this latest
form of bad taste; and finally I wish people to put the good amulet,
"GAI SABER" ("gay science," in ordinary language), on heart and neck, as
a protection against it.

294. THE OLYMPIAN VICE.--Despite the philosopher who, as a genuine
Englishman, tried to bring laughter into bad repute in all thinking
minds--"Laughing is a bad infirmity of human nature, which every
thinking mind will strive to overcome" (Hobbes),--I would even
allow myself to rank philosophers according to the quality of their
laughing--up to those who are capable of GOLDEN laughter. And supposing
that Gods also philosophize, which I am strongly inclined to believe,
owing to many reasons--I have no doubt that they also know how to laugh
thereby in an overman-like and new fashion--and at the expense of all
serious things! Gods are fond of ridicule: it seems that they cannot
refrain from laughter even in holy matters.

295. The genius of the heart, as that great mysterious one possesses
it, the tempter-god and born rat-catcher of consciences, whose voice can
descend into the nether-world of every soul, who neither speaks a word
nor casts a glance in which there may not be some motive or touch
of allurement, to whose perfection it pertains that he knows how to
appear,--not as he is, but in a guise which acts as an ADDITIONAL
constraint on his followers to press ever closer to him, to follow him
more cordially and thoroughly;--the genius of the heart, which imposes
silence and attention on everything loud and self-conceited, which
smoothes rough souls and makes them taste a new longing--to lie placid
as a mirror, that the deep heavens may be reflected in them;--the genius
of the heart, which teaches the clumsy and too hasty hand to hesitate,
and to grasp more delicately; which scents the hidden and forgotten
treasure, the drop of goodness and sweet spirituality under thick dark
ice, and is a divining-rod for every grain of gold, long buried and
imprisoned in mud and sand; the genius of the heart, from contact with
which every one goes away richer; not favoured or surprised, not as
though gratified and oppressed by the good things of others; but richer
in himself, newer than before, broken up, blown upon, and sounded by a
thawing wind; more uncertain, perhaps, more delicate, more fragile, more
bruised, but full of hopes which as yet lack names, full of a new will
and current, full of a new ill-will and counter-current... but what am I
doing, my friends? Of whom am I talking to you? Have I forgotten myself
so far that I have not even told you his name? Unless it be that you
have already divined of your own accord who this questionable God
and spirit is, that wishes to be PRAISED in such a manner? For, as it
happens to every one who from childhood onward has always been on his
legs, and in foreign lands, I have also encountered on my path many
strange and dangerous spirits; above all, however, and again and again,
the one of whom I have just spoken: in fact, no less a personage than
the God DIONYSUS, the great equivocator and tempter, to whom, as you
know, I once offered in all secrecy and reverence my first-fruits--the
last, as it seems to me, who has offered a SACRIFICE to him, for I
have found no one who could understand what I was then doing. In
the meantime, however, I have learned much, far too much, about the
philosophy of this God, and, as I said, from mouth to mouth--I, the last
disciple and initiate of the God Dionysus: and perhaps I might at last
begin to give you, my friends, as far as I am allowed, a little taste of
this philosophy? In a hushed voice, as is but seemly: for it has to do
with much that is secret, new, strange, wonderful, and uncanny. The
very fact that Dionysus is a philosopher, and that therefore Gods also
philosophize, seems to me a novelty which is not unensnaring, and might
perhaps arouse suspicion precisely among philosophers;--among you, my
friends, there is less to be said against it, except that it comes too
late and not at the right time; for, as it has been disclosed to me, you
are loth nowadays to believe in God and gods. It may happen, too, that
in the frankness of my story I must go further than is agreeable to the
strict usages of your ears? Certainly the God in question went further,
very much further, in such dialogues, and was always many paces ahead of
me... Indeed, if it were allowed, I should have to give him, according
to human usage, fine ceremonious tides of lustre and merit, I should
have to extol his courage as investigator and discoverer, his fearless
honesty, truthfulness, and love of wisdom. But such a God does not know
what to do with all that respectable trumpery and pomp. "Keep that," he
would say, "for thyself and those like thee, and whoever else require
it! I--have no reason to cover my nakedness!" One suspects that this
kind of divinity and philosopher perhaps lacks shame?--He once said:
"Under certain circumstances I love mankind"--and referred thereby to
Ariadne, who was present; "in my opinion man is an agreeable, brave,
inventive animal, that has not his equal upon earth, he makes his way
even through all labyrinths. I like man, and often think how I can
still further advance him, and make him stronger, more evil, and more
profound."--"Stronger, more evil, and more profound?" I asked in horror.
"Yes," he said again, "stronger, more evil, and more profound; also more
beautiful"--and thereby the tempter-god smiled with his halcyon smile,
as though he had just paid some charming compliment. One here sees at
once that it is not only shame that this divinity lacks;--and in general
there are good grounds for supposing that in some things the Gods could
all of them come to us men for instruction. We men are--more human.--

296. Alas! what are you, after all, my written and painted thoughts! Not
long ago you were so variegated, young and malicious, so full of thorns
and secret spices, that you made me sneeze and laugh--and now? You
have already doffed your novelty, and some of you, I fear, are ready
to become truths, so immortal do they look, so pathetically honest, so
tedious! And was it ever otherwise? What then do we write and paint,
we mandarins with Chinese brush, we immortalisers of things which LEND
themselves to writing, what are we alone capable of painting? Alas, only
that which is just about to fade and begins to lose its odour! Alas,
only exhausted and departing storms and belated yellow sentiments! Alas,
only birds strayed and fatigued by flight, which now let themselves be
captured with the hand--with OUR hand! We immortalize what cannot live
and fly much longer, things only which are exhausted and mellow! And it
is only for your AFTERNOON, you, my written and painted thoughts, for
which alone I have colours, many colours, perhaps, many variegated
softenings, and fifty yellows and browns and greens and reds;--but
nobody will divine thereby how ye looked in your morning, you sudden
sparks and marvels of my solitude, you, my old, beloved--EVIL thoughts!




FROM THE HEIGHTS

By F W Nietzsche

Translated by L. A. Magnus


                       1.

     MIDDAY of Life! Oh, season of delight!
                      My summer's park!
     Uneaseful joy to look, to lurk, to hark--
     I peer for friends, am ready day and night,--
     Where linger ye, my friends? The time is right!

                       2.

     Is not the glacier's grey today for you
                         Rose-garlanded?
     The brooklet seeks you, wind, cloud, with longing thread
     And thrust themselves yet higher to the blue,
     To spy for you from farthest eagle's view.

                       3.

     My table was spread out for you on high--
                      Who dwelleth so
     Star-near, so near the grisly pit below?--
     My realm--what realm hath wider boundary?
     My honey--who hath sipped its fragrancy?

                       4.

     Friends, ye are there! Woe me,--yet I am not
                        He whom ye seek?
     Ye stare and stop--better your wrath could speak!
     I am not I? Hand, gait, face, changed? And what
     I am, to you my friends, now am I not?

                       5.

     Am I an other? Strange am I to Me?
                      Yet from Me sprung?
     A wrestler, by himself too oft self-wrung?
     Hindering too oft my own self's potency,
     Wounded and hampered by self-victory?

                       6.

     I sought where-so the wind blows keenest. There
                     I learned to dwell
     Where no man dwells, on lonesome ice-lorn fell,
     And unlearned Man and God and curse and prayer?
     Became a ghost haunting the glaciers bare?

                       7.

     Ye, my old friends! Look! Ye turn pale, filled o'er
                      With love and fear!
     Go! Yet not in wrath. Ye could ne'er live here.
     Here in the farthest realm of ice and scaur,
     A huntsman must one be, like chamois soar.

                       8.

     An evil huntsman was I? See how taut
                    My bow was bent!
     Strongest was he by whom such bolt were sent--
     Woe now! That arrow is with peril fraught,
     Perilous as none.--Have yon safe home ye sought!

                       9.

     Ye go! Thou didst endure enough, oh, heart;--
                     Strong was thy hope;
     Unto new friends thy portals widely ope,
     Let old ones be. Bid memory depart!
     Wast thou young then, now--better young thou art!

                       10.

     What linked us once together, one hope's tie--
                    (Who now doth con
     Those lines, now fading, Love once wrote thereon?)--
     Is like a parchment, which the hand is shy
     To touch--like crackling leaves, all seared, all dry.

                       11.

     Oh! Friends no more! They are--what name for those?--
                           Friends' phantom-flight
     Knocking at my heart's window-pane at night,
     Gazing on me, that speaks "We were" and goes,--
     Oh, withered words, once fragrant as the rose!

                       12.

     Pinings of youth that might not understand!
                       For which I pined,
     Which I deemed changed with me, kin of my kind:
     But they grew old, and thus were doomed and banned:
     None but new kith are native of my land!

                       13.

     Midday of life! My second youth's delight!
                       My summer's park!
     Unrestful joy to long, to lurk, to hark!
     I peer for friends!--am ready day and night,
     For my new friends. Come! Come! The time is right!

                       14.

     This song is done,--the sweet sad cry of rue
                       Sang out its end;
     A wizard wrought it, he the timely friend,
     The midday-friend,--no, do not ask me who;
     At midday 'twas, when one became as two.

                       15.

     We keep our Feast of Feasts, sure of our bourne,
                      Our aims self-same:
     The Guest of Guests, friend Zarathustra, came!
     The world now laughs, the grisly veil was torn,
     And Light and Dark were one that wedding-morn.






PREFACE


This book belongs to the most rare of men. Perhaps not one of them is
yet alive. It is possible that they may be among those who understand my
"Zarathustra": how _could_ I confound myself with those who are now
sprouting ears?--First the day after tomorrow must come for me. Some men
are born posthumously.

The conditions under which any one understands me, and _necessarily_
understands me--I know them only too well. Even to endure my
seriousness, my passion, he must carry intellectual integrity to the
verge of hardness. He must be accustomed to living on mountain tops--and
to looking upon the wretched gabble of politics and nationalism as
_beneath_ him. He must have become indifferent; he must never ask of the
truth whether it brings profit to him or a fatality to him.... He must
have an inclination, born of strength, for questions that no one has the
courage for; the courage for the _forbidden_; predestination for the
labyrinth. The experience of seven solitudes. New ears for new music.
New eyes for what is most distant. A new conscience for truths that have
hitherto remained unheard. _And_ the will to economize in the grand
manner--to hold together his strength, his enthusiasm.... Reverence for
self; love of self; absolute freedom of self....

Very well, then! of that sort only are my readers, my true readers, my
readers foreordained: of what account are the _rest_?--The rest are
merely humanity.--One must make one's self superior to humanity, in
power, in _loftiness_ of soul,--in contempt.

                        FRIEDRICH W. NIETZSCHE.




THE ANTICHRIST


1.

--Let us look each other in the face. We are Hyperboreans--we know well
enough how remote our place is. "Neither by land nor by water will you
find the road to the Hyperboreans": even Pindar,[1] in his day, knew
_that_ much about us. Beyond the North, beyond the ice, beyond
_death_--_our_ life, _our_ happiness.... We have discovered that
happiness; we know the way; we got our knowledge of it from thousands of
years in the labyrinth. Who _else_ has found it?--The man of today?--"I
don't know either the way out or the way in; I am whatever doesn't know
either the way out or the way in"--so sighs the man of today.... _This_
is the sort of modernity that made us ill,--we sickened on lazy peace,
cowardly compromise, the whole virtuous dirtiness of the modern Yea and
Nay. This tolerance and _largeur_ of the heart that "forgives"
everything because it "understands" everything is a sirocco to us.
Rather live amid the ice than among modern virtues and other such
south-winds!... We were brave enough; we spared neither ourselves nor
others; but we were a long time finding out _where_ to direct our
courage. We grew dismal; they called us fatalists. _Our_ fate--it was
the fulness, the tension, the _storing up_ of powers. We thirsted for
the lightnings and great deeds; we kept as far as possible from the
happiness of the weakling, from "resignation"... There was thunder in
our air; nature, as we embodied it, became overcast--_for we had not yet
found the way_. The formula of our happiness: a Yea, a Nay, a straight
line, a _goal_....

[1] _Cf._ the tenth Pythian ode. See also the fourth book of Herodotus.
The Hyperboreans were a mythical people beyond the Rhipaean mountains,
in the far North. They enjoyed unbroken happiness and perpetual youth.


2.

What is good?--Whatever augments the feeling of power, the will to
power, power itself, in man.

What is evil?--Whatever springs from weakness.

What is happiness?--The feeling that power _increases_--that resistance
is overcome.

Not contentment, but more power; _not_ peace at any price, but war;
_not_ virtue, but efficiency (virtue in the Renaissance sense, _virtu_,
virtue free of moral acid).

The weak and the botched shall perish: first principle of _our_ charity.
And one should help them to it.

What is more harmful than any vice?--Practical sympathy for the botched
and the weak--Christianity....


3.

The problem that I set here is not what shall replace mankind in the
order of living creatures (--man is an end--): but what type of man must
be _bred_, must be _willed_, as being the most valuable, the most worthy
of life, the most secure guarantee of the future.

This more valuable type has appeared often enough in the past: but
always as a happy accident, as an exception, never as deliberately
_willed_. Very often it has been precisely the most feared; hitherto it
has been almost _the_ terror of terrors;--and out of that terror the
contrary type has been willed, cultivated and _attained_: the domestic
animal, the herd animal, the sick brute-man--the Christian....


4.

Mankind surely does _not_ represent an evolution toward a better or
stronger or higher level, as progress is now understood. This "progress"
is merely a modern idea, which is to say, a false idea. The European of
today, in his essential worth, falls far below the European of the
Renaissance; the process of evolution does _not_ necessarily mean
elevation, enhancement, strengthening.

True enough, it succeeds in isolated and individual cases in various
parts of the earth and under the most widely different cultures, and in
these cases a _higher_ type certainly manifests itself; something which,
compared to mankind in the mass, appears as a sort of superman. Such
happy strokes of high success have always been possible, and will remain
possible, perhaps, for all time to come. Even whole races, tribes and
nations may occasionally represent such lucky accidents.


5.

We should not deck out and embellish Christianity: it has waged a war to
the death against this _higher_ type of man, it has put all the deepest
instincts of this type under its ban, it has developed its concept of
evil, of the Evil One himself, out of these instincts--the strong man as
the typical reprobate, the "outcast among men." Christianity has taken
the part of all the weak, the low, the botched; it has made an ideal out
of _antagonism_ to all the self-preservative instincts of sound life; it
has corrupted even the faculties of those natures that are
intellectually most vigorous, by representing the highest intellectual
values as sinful, as misleading, as full of temptation. The most
lamentable example: the corruption of Pascal, who believed that his
intellect had been destroyed by original sin, whereas it was actually
destroyed by Christianity!--


6.

It is a painful and tragic spectacle that rises before me: I have drawn
back the curtain from the _rottenness_ of man. This word, in my mouth,
is at least free from one suspicion: that it involves a moral accusation
against humanity. It is used--and I wish to emphasize the fact
again--without any moral significance: and this is so far true that the
rottenness I speak of is most apparent to me precisely in those quarters
where there has been most aspiration, hitherto, toward "virtue" and
"godliness." As you probably surmise, I understand rottenness in the
sense of _décadence_: my argument is that all the values on which
mankind now fixes its highest aspirations are _décadence_-values.

I call an animal, a species, an individual corrupt, when it loses its
instincts, when it chooses, when it _prefers_, what is injurious to it.
A history of the "higher feelings," the "ideals of humanity"--and it is
possible that I'll have to write it--would almost explain why man is so
degenerate. Life itself appears to me as an instinct for growth, for
survival, for the accumulation of forces, for _power_: whenever the will
to power fails there is disaster. My contention is that all the highest
values of humanity have been emptied of this will--that the values of
_décadence_, of _nihilism_, now prevail under the holiest names.


7.

Christianity is called the religion of _pity_.--Pity stands in
opposition to all the tonic passions that augment the energy of the
feeling of aliveness: it is a depressant. A man loses power when he
pities. Through pity that drain upon strength which suffering works is
multiplied a thousandfold. Suffering is made contagious by pity; under
certain circumstances it may lead to a total sacrifice of life and
living energy--a loss out of all proportion to the magnitude of the
cause (--the case of the death of the Nazarene). This is the first view
of it; there is, however, a still more important one. If one measures
the effects of pity by the gravity of the reactions it sets up, its
character as a menace to life appears in a much clearer light. Pity
thwarts the whole law of evolution, which is the law of natural
selection. It preserves whatever is ripe for destruction; it fights on
the side of those disinherited and condemned by life; by maintaining
life in so many of the botched of all kinds, it gives life itself a
gloomy and dubious aspect. Mankind has ventured to call pity a virtue
(--in every _superior_ moral system it appears as a weakness--); going
still further, it has been called _the_ virtue, the source and
foundation of all other virtues--but let us always bear in mind that
this was from the standpoint of a philosophy that was nihilistic, and
upon whose shield _the denial of life_ was inscribed. Schopenhauer was
right in this: that by means of pity life is denied, and made _worthy of
denial_--pity is the technic of nihilism. Let me repeat: this depressing
and contagious instinct stands against all those instincts which work
for the preservation and enhancement of life: in the rôle of _protector_
of the miserable, it is a prime agent in the promotion of
_décadence_--pity persuades to extinction.... Of course, one doesn't say
"extinction": one says "the other world," or "God," or "the _true_
life," or Nirvana, salvation, blessedness.... This innocent rhetoric,
from the realm of religious-ethical balderdash, appears _a good deal
less innocent_ when one reflects upon the tendency that it conceals
beneath sublime words: the tendency to _destroy life_. Schopenhauer was
hostile to life: that is why pity appeared to him as a virtue....
Aristotle, as every one knows, saw in pity a sickly and dangerous state
of mind, the remedy for which was an occasional purgative: he regarded
tragedy as that purgative. The instinct of life should prompt us to seek
some means of puncturing any such pathological and dangerous
accumulation of pity as that appearing in Schopenhauer's case (and also,
alack, in that of our whole literary _décadence_, from St. Petersburg to
Paris, from Tolstoi to Wagner), that it may burst and be discharged....
Nothing is more unhealthy, amid all our unhealthy modernism, than
Christian pity. To be the doctors _here_, to be unmerciful _here_, to
wield the knife _here_--all this is _our_ business, all this is _our_
sort of humanity, by this sign we are philosophers, we Hyperboreans!--


8.

It is necessary to say just _whom_ we regard as our antagonists:
theologians and all who have any theological blood in their veins--this
is our whole philosophy.... One must have faced that menace at close
hand, better still, one must have had experience of it directly and
almost succumbed to it, to realize that it is not to be taken lightly
(--the alleged free-thinking of our naturalists and physiologists seems
to me to be a joke--they have no passion about such things; they have
not suffered--). This poisoning goes a great deal further than most
people think: I find the arrogant habit of the theologian among all who
regard themselves as "idealists"--among all who, by virtue of a higher
point of departure, claim a right to rise above reality, and to look
upon it with suspicion.... The idealist, like the ecclesiastic, carries
all sorts of lofty concepts in his hand (--and not only in his hand!);
he launches them with benevolent contempt against "understanding," "the
senses," "honor," "good living," "science"; he sees such things as
_beneath_ him, as pernicious and seductive forces, on which "the soul"
soars as a pure thing-in-itself--as if humility, chastity, poverty, in a
word, _holiness_, had not already done much more damage to life than all
imaginable horrors and vices.... The pure soul is a pure lie.... So long
as the priest, that _professional_ denier, calumniator and poisoner of
life, is accepted as a _higher_ variety of man, there can be no answer
to the question, What _is_ truth? Truth has already been stood on its
head when the obvious attorney of mere emptiness is mistaken for its
representative....


9.

Upon this theological instinct I make war: I find the tracks of it
everywhere. Whoever has theological blood in his veins is shifty and
dishonourable in all things. The pathetic thing that grows out of this
condition is called _faith_: in other words, closing one's eyes upon
one's self once for all, to avoid suffering the sight of incurable
falsehood. People erect a concept of morality, of virtue, of holiness
upon this false view of all things; they ground good conscience upon
faulty vision; they argue that no _other_ sort of vision has value any
more, once they have made theirs sacrosanct with the names of "God,"
"salvation" and "eternity." I unearth this theological instinct in all
directions: it is the most widespread and the most _subterranean_ form
of falsehood to be found on earth. Whatever a theologian regards as true
_must_ be false: there you have almost a criterion of truth. His
profound instinct of self-preservation stands against truth ever coming
into honour in any way, or even getting stated. Wherever the influence
of theologians is felt there is a transvaluation of values, and the
concepts "true" and "false" are forced to change places: whatever is
most damaging to life is there called "true," and whatever exalts it,
intensifies it, approves it, justifies it and makes it triumphant is
there called "false."... When theologians, working through the
"consciences" of princes (or of peoples--), stretch out their hands for
_power_, there is never any doubt as to the fundamental issue: the will
to make an end, the _nihilistic_ will exerts that power....


10.

Among Germans I am immediately understood when I say that theological
blood is the ruin of philosophy. The Protestant pastor is the
grandfather of German philosophy; Protestantism itself is its _peccatum
originale_. Definition of Protestantism: hemiplegic paralysis of
Christianity--_and_ of reason.... One need only utter the words
"Tübingen School" to get an understanding of what German philosophy is
at bottom--a very artful form of theology.... The Suabians are the best
liars in Germany; they lie innocently.... Why all the rejoicing over
the appearance of Kant that went through the learned world of Germany,
three-fourths of which is made up of the sons of preachers and
teachers--why the German conviction still echoing, that with Kant came a
change for the _better_? The theological instinct of German scholars
made them see clearly just _what_ had become possible again.... A
backstairs leading to the old ideal stood open; the concept of the "true
world," the concept of morality as the _essence_ of the world (--the two
most vicious errors that ever existed!), were once more, thanks to a
subtle and wily scepticism, if not actually demonstrable, then _at
least_ no longer _refutable_.... _Reason_, the _prerogative_ of reason,
does not go so far.... Out of reality there had been made "appearance";
an absolutely false world, that of being, had been turned into
reality.... The success of Kant is merely a theological success; he was,
like Luther and Leibnitz, but one more impediment to German integrity,
already far from steady.--


11.

A word now against Kant as a moralist. A virtue must be _our_ invention;
it must spring out of _our_ personal need and defence. In every other
case it is a source of danger. That which does not belong to our life
_menaces_ it; a virtue which has its roots in mere respect for the
concept of "virtue," as Kant would have it, is pernicious. "Virtue,"
"duty," "good for its own sake," goodness grounded upon impersonality or
a notion of universal validity--these are all chimeras, and in them one
finds only an expression of the decay, the last collapse of life, the
Chinese spirit of Königsberg. Quite the contrary is demanded by the most
profound laws of self-preservation and of growth: to wit, that every man
find his _own_ virtue, his _own_ categorical imperative. A nation goes
to pieces when it confounds _its_ duty with the general concept of duty.
Nothing works a more complete and penetrating disaster than every
"impersonal" duty, every sacrifice before the Moloch of abstraction.--To
think that no one has thought of Kant's categorical imperative as
_dangerous to life_!... The theological instinct alone took it under
protection!--An action prompted by the life-instinct proves that it is a
_right_ action by the amount of pleasure that goes with it: and yet that
Nihilist, with his bowels of Christian dogmatism, regarded pleasure as
an _objection_.... What destroys a man more quickly than to work, think
and feel without inner necessity, without any deep personal desire,
without pleasure--as a mere automaton of duty? That is the recipe for
_décadence_, and no less for idiocy.... Kant became an idiot.--And such
a man was the contemporary of Goethe! This calamitous spinner of cobwebs
passed for _the_ German philosopher--still passes today!... I forbid
myself to say what I think of the Germans.... Didn't Kant see in the
French Revolution the transformation of the state from the inorganic
form to the _organic_? Didn't he ask himself if there was a single event
that could be explained save on the assumption of a moral faculty in
man, so that on the basis of it, "the tendency of mankind toward the
good" could be _explained_, once and for all time? Kant's answer: "That
is revolution." Instinct at fault in everything and anything, instinct
as a revolt against nature, German _décadence_ as a philosophy--_that is
Kant_!--


12.

I put aside a few sceptics, the types of decency in the history of
philosophy: the rest haven't the slightest conception of intellectual
integrity. They behave like women, all these great enthusiasts and
prodigies--they regard "beautiful feelings" as arguments, the "heaving
breast" as the bellows of divine inspiration, conviction as the
_criterion_ of truth. In the end, with "German" innocence, Kant tried to
give a scientific flavour to this form of corruption, this dearth of
intellectual conscience, by calling it "practical reason." He
deliberately invented a variety of reasons for use on occasions when it
was desirable not to trouble with reason--that is, when morality, when
the sublime command "thou shalt," was heard. When one recalls the fact
that, among all peoples, the philosopher is no more than a development
from the old type of priest, this inheritance from the priest, this
_fraud upon self_, ceases to be remarkable. When a man feels that he has
a divine mission, say to lift up, to save or to liberate mankind--when a
man feels the divine spark in his heart and believes that he is the
mouthpiece of supernatural imperatives--when such a mission inflames
him, it is only natural that he should stand beyond all merely
reasonable standards of judgment. He feels that he is _himself_
sanctified by this mission, that he is himself a type of a higher
order!... What has a priest to do with philosophy! He stands far above
it!--And hitherto the priest has _ruled_!--He has determined the meaning
of "true" and "not true"!...


13.

Let us not underestimate this fact: that _we
ourselves_, we free spirits, are already a "transvaluation of all
values," a _visualized_ declaration of war and victory against all the
old concepts of "true" and "not true." The most valuable intuitions are
the last to be attained; the most valuable of all are those which
determine _methods_. All the methods, all the principles of the
scientific spirit of today, were the targets for thousands of years of
the most profound contempt; if a man inclined to them he was excluded
from the society of "decent" people--he passed as "an enemy of God," as
a scoffer at the truth, as one "possessed." As a man of science, he
belonged to the Chandala[2].... We have had the whole pathetic stupidity
of mankind against us--their every notion of what the truth _ought_ to
be, of what the service of the truth _ought_ to be--their every "thou
shalt" was launched against us.... Our objectives, our methods, our
quiet, cautious, distrustful manner--all appeared to them as absolutely
discreditable and contemptible.--Looking back, one may almost ask one's
self with reason if it was not actually an _aesthetic_ sense that kept
men blind so long: what they demanded of the truth was picturesque
effectiveness, and of the learned a strong appeal to their senses. It
was our _modesty_ that stood out longest against their taste.... How
well they guessed that, these turkey-cocks of God!

[2] The lowest of the Hindu castes.


14.

We have unlearned something. We have become more modest in every way. We
no longer derive man from the "spirit," from the "godhead"; we have
dropped him back among the beasts. We regard him as the strongest of the
beasts because he is the craftiest; one of the results thereof is his
intellectuality. On the other hand, we guard ourselves against a conceit
which would assert itself even here: that man is the great second
thought in the process of organic evolution. He is, in truth, anything
but the crown of creation: beside him stand many other animals, all at
similar stages of development.... And even when we say that we say a bit
too much, for man, relatively speaking, is the most botched of all the
animals and the sickliest, and he has wandered the most dangerously from
his instincts--though for all that, to be sure, he remains the most
_interesting_!--As regards the lower animals, it was Descartes who first
had the really admirable daring to describe them as _machina_; the whole
of our physiology is directed toward proving the truth of this doctrine.
Moreover, it is illogical to set man apart, as Descartes did: what we
know of man today is limited precisely by the extent to which we have
regarded him, too, as a machine. Formerly we accorded to man, as his
inheritance from some higher order of beings, what was called "free
will"; now we have taken even this will from him, for the term no longer
describes anything that we can understand. The old word "will" now
connotes only a sort of result, an individual reaction, that follows
inevitably upon a series of partly discordant and partly harmonious
stimuli--the will no longer "acts," or "moves."... Formerly it was
thought that man's consciousness, his "spirit," offered evidence of his
high origin, his divinity. That he might be _perfected_, he was advised,
tortoise-like, to draw his senses in, to have no traffic with earthly
things, to shuffle off his mortal coil--then only the important part of
him, the "pure spirit," would remain. Here again we have thought out the
thing better: to us consciousness, or "the spirit," appears as a symptom
of a relative imperfection of the organism, as an experiment, a groping,
a misunderstanding, as an affliction which uses up nervous force
unnecessarily--we deny that anything can be done perfectly so long as it
is done consciously. The "pure spirit" is a piece of pure stupidity:
take away the nervous system and the senses, the so-called "mortal
shell," and _the rest is miscalculation_--that is all!...


15.

Under Christianity neither morality nor religion has any point of
contact with actuality. It offers purely imaginary _causes_ ("God,"
"soul," "ego," "spirit," "free will"--or even "unfree"), and purely
imaginary _effects_ ("sin," "salvation," "grace," "punishment,"
"forgiveness of sins"). Intercourse between imaginary _beings_ ("God,"
"spirits," "souls"); an imaginary _natural history_ (anthropocentric; a
total denial of the concept of natural causes); an imaginary
_psychology_ (misunderstandings of self, misinterpretations of agreeable
or disagreeable general feelings--for example, of the states of the
_nervus sympathicus_ with the help of the sign-language of
religio-ethical balderdash--, "repentance," "pangs of conscience,"
"temptation by the devil," "the presence of God"); an imaginary
_teleology_ (the "kingdom of God," "the last judgment," "eternal
life").--This purely _fictitious world_, greatly to its disadvantage, is
to be differentiated from the world of dreams; the latter at least
reflects reality, whereas the former falsifies it, cheapens it and
denies it. Once the concept of "nature" had been opposed to the concept
of "God," the word "natural" necessarily took on the meaning of
"abominable"--the whole of that fictitious world has its sources in
hatred of the natural (--the real!--), and is no more than evidence of a
profound uneasiness in the presence of reality.... _This explains
everything._ Who alone has any reason for living his way out of reality?
The man who suffers under it. But to suffer from reality one must be a
_botched_ reality.... The preponderance of pains over pleasures is the
cause of this fictitious morality and religion: but such a preponderance
also supplies the formula for _décadence_....


16.

A criticism of the _Christian concept of God_ leads inevitably to the
same conclusion.--A nation that still believes in itself holds fast to
its own god. In him it does honour to the conditions which enable it to
survive, to its virtues--it projects its joy in itself, its feeling of
power, into a being to whom one may offer thanks. He who is rich will
give of his riches; a proud people need a god to whom they can make
_sacrifices_.... Religion, within these limits, is a form of gratitude.
A man is grateful for his own existence: to that end he needs a
god.--Such a god must be able to work both benefits and injuries; he
must be able to play either friend or foe--he is wondered at for the
good he does as well as for the evil he does. But the castration,
against all nature, of such a god, making him a god of goodness alone,
would be contrary to human inclination. Mankind has just as much need
for an evil god as for a good god; it doesn't have to thank mere
tolerance and humanitarianism for its own existence.... What would be
the value of a god who knew nothing of anger, revenge, envy, scorn,
cunning, violence? who had perhaps never experienced the rapturous
_ardeurs_ of victory and of destruction? No one would understand such a
god: why should any one want him?--True enough, when a nation is on the
downward path, when it feels its belief in its own future, its hope of
freedom slipping from it, when it begins to see submission as a first
necessity and the virtues of submission as measures of self-preservation,
then it _must_ overhaul its god. He then becomes a hypocrite, timorous
and demure; he counsels "peace of soul," hate-no-more, leniency, "love"
of friend and foe. He moralizes endlessly; he creeps into every private
virtue; he becomes the god of every man; he becomes a private citizen, a
cosmopolitan.... Formerly he represented a people, the strength of a
people, everything aggressive and thirsty for power in the soul of a
people; now he is simply _the good god_.... The truth is that there is
no other alternative for gods: _either_ they are the will to power--in
which case they are national gods--_or_ incapacity for power--in which
case they have to be good....


17.

Wherever the will to power begins to decline, in whatever form, there is
always an accompanying decline physiologically, a _décadence_. The
divinity of this _décadence_, shorn of its masculine virtues and
passions, is converted perforce into a god of the physiologically
degraded, of the weak. Of course, they do not _call_ themselves the
weak; they call themselves "the good."... No hint is needed to indicate
the moments in history at which the dualistic fiction of a good and an
evil god first became possible. The same instinct which prompts the
inferior to reduce their own god to "goodness-in-itself" also prompts
them to eliminate all good qualities from the god of their superiors;
they make revenge on their masters by making a _devil_ of the latter's
god.--The _good_ god, and the devil like him--both are abortions of
_décadence_.--How can we be so tolerant of the naïveté of Christian
theologians as to join in their doctrine that the evolution of the
concept of god from "the god of Israel," the god of a people, to the
Christian god, the essence of all goodness, is to be described as
_progress_?--But even Renan does this. As if Renan had a right to be
naïve! The contrary actually stares one in the face. When everything
necessary to _ascending_ life; when all that is strong, courageous,
masterful and proud has been eliminated from the concept of a god; when
he has sunk step by step to the level of a staff for the weary, a
sheet-anchor for the drowning; when he becomes the poor man's god, the
sinner's god, the invalid's god _par excellence_, and the attribute of
"saviour" or "redeemer" remains as the one essential attribute of
divinity--just _what_ is the significance of such a metamorphosis?
what does such a _reduction_ of the godhead imply?--To be
sure, the "kingdom of God" has thus grown larger. Formerly he had only
his own people, his "chosen" people. But since then he has gone
wandering, like his people themselves, into foreign parts; he has given
up settling down quietly anywhere; finally he has come to feel at home
everywhere, and is the great cosmopolitan--until now he has the "great
majority" on his side, and half the earth. But this god of the "great
majority," this democrat among gods, has not become a proud heathen god:
on the contrary, he remains a Jew, he remains a god in a corner, a god
of all the dark nooks and crevices, of all the noisesome quarters of the
world!... His earthly kingdom, now as always, is a kingdom of the
underworld, a _souterrain_ kingdom, a ghetto kingdom.... And he himself
is so pale, so weak, so _décadent_.... Even the palest of the pale are
able to master him--messieurs the metaphysicians, those albinos of the
intellect. They spun their webs around him for so long that finally he
was hypnotized, and began to spin himself, and became another
metaphysician. Thereafter he resumed once more his old business of
spinning the world out of his inmost being _sub specie Spinozae_;
thereafter he became ever thinner and paler--became the "ideal," became
"pure spirit," became "the absolute," became "the thing-in-itself."...
_The collapse of a god_: he became a "thing-in-itself."


18.

The Christian concept of a god--the god as the patron of the sick, the
god as a spinner of cobwebs, the god as a spirit--is one of the most
corrupt concepts that has ever been set up in the world: it probably
touches low-water mark in the ebbing evolution of the god-type. God
degenerated into the _contradiction of life_. Instead of being its
transfiguration and eternal Yea! In him war is declared on life, on
nature, on the will to live! God becomes the formula for every slander
upon the "here and now," and for every lie about the "beyond"! In him
nothingness is deified, and the will to nothingness is made holy!...


19.

The fact that the strong races of northern Europe did not repudiate this
Christian god does little credit to their gift for religion--and not
much more to their taste. They ought to have been able to make an end of
such a moribund and worn-out product of the _décadence_. A curse lies
upon them because they were not equal to it; they made illness,
decrepitude and contradiction a part of their instincts--and since then
they have not managed to _create_ any more gods. Two thousand years have
come and gone--and not a single new god! Instead, there still exists,
and as if by some intrinsic right,--as if he were the _ultimatum_ and
_maximum_ of the power to create gods, of the _creator spiritus_ in
mankind--this pitiful god of Christian monotono-theism! This hybrid
image of decay, conjured up out of emptiness, contradiction and vain
imagining, in which all the instincts of _décadence_, all the cowardices
and wearinesses of the soul find their sanction!--


20.

In my condemnation of Christianity I surely hope I do no injustice to a
related religion with an even larger number of believers: I allude to
_Buddhism_. Both are to be reckoned among the nihilistic religions--they
are both _décadence_ religions--but they are separated from each other
in a very remarkable way. For the fact that he is able to _compare_ them
at all the critic of Christianity is indebted to the scholars of
India.--Buddhism is a hundred times as realistic as Christianity--it is
part of its living heritage that it is able to face problems objectively
and coolly; it is the product of long centuries of philosophical
speculation. The concept, "god," was already disposed of before it
appeared. Buddhism is the only genuinely _positive_ religion to be
encountered in history, and this applies even to its epistemology (which
is a strict phenomenalism). It does not speak of a "struggle with sin,"
but, yielding to reality, of the "struggle with suffering." Sharply
differentiating itself from Christianity, it puts the self-deception
that lies in moral concepts behind it; it is, in my phrase, _beyond_
good and evil.--The two physiological facts upon which it grounds itself
and upon which it bestows its chief attention are: first, an excessive
sensitiveness to sensation, which manifests itself as a refined
susceptibility to pain, and _secondly_, an extraordinary spirituality, a
too protracted concern with concepts and logical procedures, under the
influence of which the instinct of personality has yielded to a notion
of the "impersonal." (--Both of these states will be familiar to a few
of my readers, the objectivists, by experience, as they are to me).
These physiological states produced a _depression_, and Buddha tried to
combat it by hygienic measures. Against it he prescribed a life in the
open, a life of travel; moderation in eating and a careful selection of
foods; caution in the use of intoxicants; the same caution in arousing
any of the passions that foster a bilious habit and heat the blood;
finally, no _worry_, either on one's own account or on account of
others. He encourages ideas that make for either quiet contentment or
good cheer--he finds means to combat ideas of other sorts. He
understands good, the state of goodness, as something which promotes
health. _Prayer_ is not included, and neither is _asceticism_. There is
no categorical imperative nor any disciplines, even within the walls of
a monastery (--it is always possible to leave--). These things would
have been simply means of increasing the excessive sensitiveness above
mentioned. For the same reason he does not advocate any conflict with
unbelievers; his teaching is antagonistic to nothing so much as to
revenge, aversion, _ressentiment_ (--"enmity never brings an end to
enmity": the moving refrain of all Buddhism....) And in all this he was
right, for it is precisely these passions which, in view of his main
regiminal purpose, are _unhealthful_. The mental fatigue that he
observes, already plainly displayed in too much "objectivity" (that is,
in the individual's loss of interest in himself, in loss of balance and
of "egoism"), he combats by strong efforts to lead even the spiritual
interests back to the _ego_. In Buddha's teaching egoism is a duty. The
"one thing needful," the question "how can you be delivered from
suffering," regulates and determines the whole spiritual diet.
(--Perhaps one will here recall that Athenian who also declared war upon
pure "scientificality," to wit, Socrates, who also elevated egoism to
the estate of a morality).


21.

The things necessary to Buddhism are a very mild climate, customs of
great gentleness and liberality, and _no_ militarism; moreover, it must
get its start among the higher and better educated classes.
Cheerfulness, quiet and the absence of desire are the chief desiderata,
and they are _attained_. Buddhism is not a religion in which perfection
is merely an object of aspiration: perfection is actually normal.--

Under Christianity the instincts of the subjugated and the oppressed
come to the fore: it is only those who are at the bottom who seek their
salvation in it. Here the prevailing pastime, the favourite remedy for
boredom is the discussion of sin, self-criticism, the inquisition of
conscience; here the emotion produced by _power_ (called "God") is
pumped up (by prayer); here the highest good is regarded as
unattainable, as a gift, as "grace." Here, too, open dealing is lacking;
concealment and the darkened room are Christian. Here body is despised
and hygiene is denounced as sensual; the church even ranges itself
against cleanliness (--the first Christian order after the banishment of
the Moors closed the public baths, of which there were 270 in Cordova
alone). Christian, too, is a certain cruelty toward one's self and
toward others; hatred of unbelievers; the will to persecute. Sombre and
disquieting ideas are in the foreground; the most esteemed states of
mind, bearing the most respectable names, are epileptoid; the diet is so
regulated as to engender morbid symptoms and over-stimulate the nerves.
Christian, again, is all deadly enmity to the rulers of the earth, to
the "aristocratic"--along with a sort of secret rivalry with them (--one
resigns one's "body" to them; one wants _only_ one's "soul"...). And
Christian is all hatred of the intellect, of pride, of courage, of
freedom, of intellectual _libertinage_; Christian is all hatred of the
senses, of joy in the senses, of joy in general....


22.

When Christianity departed from its native soil, that of the lowest
orders, the _underworld_ of the ancient world, and began seeking power
among barbarian peoples, it no longer had to deal with _exhausted_ men,
but with men still inwardly savage and capable of self-torture--in
brief, strong men, but bungled men. Here, unlike in the case of the
Buddhists, the cause of discontent with self, suffering through self, is
_not_ merely a general sensitiveness and susceptibility to pain, but, on
the contrary, an inordinate thirst for inflicting pain on others, a
tendency to obtain subjective satisfaction in hostile deeds and ideas.
Christianity had to embrace _barbaric_ concepts and valuations in order
to obtain mastery over barbarians: of such sort, for example, are the
sacrifices of the first-born, the drinking of blood as a sacrament, the
disdain of the intellect and of culture; torture in all its forms,
whether bodily or not; the whole pomp of the cult. Buddhism is a
religion for peoples in a further state of development, for races that
have become kind, gentle and over-spiritualized (--Europe is not yet
ripe for it--): it is a summons that takes them back to peace and
cheerfulness, to a careful rationing of the spirit, to a certain
hardening of the body. Christianity aims at mastering _beasts of prey_;
its modus operandi is to make them _ill_--to make feeble is the
Christian recipe for taming, for "_civilizing_." Buddhism is a religion
for the closing, over-wearied stages of civilization. Christianity
appears before civilization has so much as begun--under certain
circumstances it lays the very foundations thereof.


23.

Buddhism, I repeat, is a hundred times more austere, more honest, more
objective. It no longer has to _justify_ its pains, its susceptibility
to suffering, by interpreting these things in terms of sin--it simply
says, as it simply thinks, "I suffer." To the barbarian, however,
suffering in itself is scarcely understandable: what he needs, first of
all, is an explanation as to _why_ he suffers. (His mere instinct
prompts him to deny his suffering altogether, or to endure it in
silence.) Here the word "devil" was a blessing: man had to have an
omnipotent and terrible enemy--there was no need to be ashamed of
suffering at the hands of such an enemy.--

At the bottom of Christianity there are several subtleties that belong
to the Orient. In the first place, it knows that it is of very little
consequence whether a thing be true or not, so long as it is _believed_
to be true. Truth and _faith_: here we have two wholly distinct worlds
of ideas, almost two diametrically _opposite_ worlds--the road to the
one and the road to the other lie miles apart. To understand that fact
thoroughly--this is almost enough, in the Orient, to _make_ one a sage.
The Brahmins knew it, Plato knew it, every student of the esoteric knows
it. When, for example, a man gets any _pleasure_ out of the notion that
he has been saved from sin, it is _not_ necessary for him to be actually
sinful, but merely to _feel_ sinful. But when _faith_ is thus exalted
above everything else, it necessarily follows that reason, knowledge and
patient inquiry have to be discredited: the road to the truth becomes a
forbidden road.--Hope, in its stronger forms, is a great deal more
powerful _stimulans_ to life than any sort of realized joy can ever be.
Man must be sustained in suffering by a hope so high that no conflict
with actuality can dash it--so high, indeed, that no fulfilment can
_satisfy_ it: a hope reaching out beyond this world. (Precisely because
of this power that hope has of making the suffering hold out, the Greeks
regarded it as the evil of evils, as the most _malign_ of evils; it
remained behind at the source of all evil.)[3]--In order that _love_ may
be possible, God must become a person; in order that the lower instincts
may take a hand in the matter God must be young. To satisfy the ardor of
the woman a beautiful saint must appear on the scene, and to satisfy
that of the men there must be a virgin. These things are necessary if
Christianity is to assume lordship over a soil on which some
aphrodisiacal or Adonis cult has already established a notion as to what
a cult ought to be. To insist upon _chastity_ greatly strengthens the
vehemence and subjectivity of the religious instinct--it makes the cult
warmer, more enthusiastic, more soulful.--Love is the state in which man
sees things most decidedly as they are _not_. The force of illusion
reaches its highest here, and so does the capacity for sweetening, for
_transfiguring_. When a man is in love he endures more than at any other
time; he submits to anything. The problem was to devise a religion which
would allow one to love: by this means the worst that life has to offer
is overcome--it is scarcely even noticed.--So much for the three
Christian virtues: faith, hope and charity: I call them the three
Christian _ingenuities_.--Buddhism is in too late a stage of
development, too full of positivism, to be shrewd in any such way.--

[3] That is, in Pandora's box.


24.

Here I barely touch upon the problem of the _origin_ of Christianity.
The _first_ thing necessary to its solution is this: that Christianity
is to be understood only by examining the soil from which it sprung--it
is _not_ a reaction against Jewish instincts; it is their inevitable
product; it is simply one more step in the awe-inspiring logic of the
Jews. In the words of the Saviour, "salvation is of the Jews."[4]--The
_second_ thing to remember is this: that the psychological type of the
Galilean is still to be recognized, but it was only in its most
degenerate form (which is at once maimed and overladen with foreign
features) that it could serve in the manner in which it has been used:
as a type of the _Saviour_ of mankind.--

[4] John iv, 22.

The Jews are the most remarkable people in the history of the world, for
when they were confronted with the question, to be or not to be, they
chose, with perfectly unearthly deliberation, to be _at any price_: this
price involved a radical _falsification_ of all nature, of all
naturalness, of all reality, of the whole inner world, as well as of
the outer. They put themselves _against_ all those conditions under
which, hitherto, a people had been able to live, or had even been
_permitted_ to live; out of themselves they evolved an idea which stood
in direct opposition to _natural_ conditions--one by one they distorted
religion, civilization, morality, history and psychology until each
became a _contradiction_ of its _natural significance_. We meet with the
same phenomenon later on, in an incalculably exaggerated form, but only
as a copy: the Christian church, put beside the "people of God," shows a
complete lack of any claim to originality. Precisely for this reason the
Jews are the most _fateful_ people in the history of the world: their
influence has so falsified the reasoning of mankind in this matter that
today the Christian can cherish anti-Semitism without realizing that it
is no more than the _final consequence of Judaism_.

In my "Genealogy of Morals" I give the first psychological explanation
of the concepts underlying those two antithetical things, a _noble_
morality and a _ressentiment_ morality, the second of which is a mere
product of the denial of the former. The Judaeo-Christian moral system
belongs to the second division, and in every detail. In order to be able
to say Nay to everything representing an _ascending_ evolution of
life--that is, to well-being, to power, to beauty, to self-approval--the
instincts of _ressentiment_, here become downright genius, had to invent
an _other_ world in which the _acceptance of life_ appeared as the most
evil and abominable thing imaginable. Psychologically, the Jews are a
people gifted with the very strongest vitality, so much so that when
they found themselves facing impossible conditions of life they chose
voluntarily, and with a profound talent for self-preservation, the side
of all those instincts which make for _décadence_--_not_ as if mastered
by them, but as if detecting in them a power by which "the world" could
be _defied_. The Jews are the very opposite of _décadents_: they have
simply been forced into _appearing_ in that guise, and with a degree of
skill approaching the _non plus ultra_ of histrionic genius they have
managed to put themselves at the head of all _décadent_ movements (--for
example, the Christianity of Paul--), and so make of them something
stronger than any party frankly saying _Yes_ to life. To the sort of
men who reach out for power under Judaism and Christianity,--that is to
say, to the _priestly_ class--_décadence_ is no more than a means to an
end. Men of this sort have a vital interest in making mankind sick, and
in confusing the values of "good" and "bad," "true" and "false" in a
manner that is not only dangerous to life, but also slanders it.


25.

The history of Israel is invaluable as a typical history of an attempt
to _denaturize_ all natural values: I point to five facts which bear
this out. Originally, and above all in the time of the monarchy, Israel
maintained the _right_ attitude of things, which is to say, the natural
attitude. Its Jahveh was an expression of its consciousness of power,
its joy in itself, its hopes for itself: to him the Jews looked for
victory and salvation and through him they expected nature to give them
whatever was necessary to their existence--above all, rain. Jahveh is
the god of Israel, and _consequently_ the god of justice: this is the
logic of every race that has power in its hands and a good conscience in
the use of it. In the religious ceremonial of the Jews both aspects of
this self-approval stand revealed. The nation is grateful for the high
destiny that has enabled it to obtain dominion; it is grateful for the
benign procession of the seasons, and for the good fortune attending its
herds and its crops.--This view of things remained an ideal for a long
while, even after it had been robbed of validity by tragic blows:
anarchy within and the Assyrian without. But the people still retained,
as a projection of their highest yearnings, that vision of a king who
was at once a gallant warrior and an upright judge--a vision best
visualized in the typical prophet (_i. e._, critic and satirist of the
moment), Isaiah.--But every hope remained unfulfilled. The old god no
longer _could_ do what he used to do. He ought to have been abandoned.
But what actually happened? Simply this: the conception of him was
_changed_--the conception of him was _denaturized_; this was the price
that had to be paid for keeping him.--Jahveh, the god of "justice"--he
is in accord with Israel _no more_, he no longer vizualizes the national
egoism; he is now a god only conditionally.... The public notion of this
god now becomes merely a weapon in the hands of clerical agitators, who
interpret all happiness as a reward and all unhappiness as a punishment
for obedience or disobedience to him, for "sin": that most fraudulent of
all imaginable interpretations, whereby a "moral order of the world" is
set up, and the fundamental concepts, "cause" and "effect," are stood on
their heads. Once natural causation has been swept out of the world by
doctrines of reward and punishment some sort of _un_-natural causation
becomes necessary: and all other varieties of the denial of nature
follow it. A god who _demands_--in place of a god who helps, who gives
counsel, who is at bottom merely a name for every happy inspiration of
courage and self-reliance.... _Morality_ is no longer a reflection of
the conditions which make for the sound life and development of the
people; it is no longer the primary life-instinct; instead it has become
abstract and in opposition to life--a fundamental perversion of the
fancy, an "evil eye" on all things. _What_ is Jewish, _what_ is
Christian morality? Chance robbed of its innocence; unhappiness polluted
with the idea of "sin"; well-being represented as a danger, as a
"temptation"; a physiological disorder produced by the canker worm of
conscience....


26.

The concept of god falsified; the concept of morality falsified;--but
even here Jewish priest-craft did not stop. The whole history of Israel
ceased to be of any value: out with it!--These priests accomplished that
miracle of falsification of which a great part of the Bible is the
documentary evidence; with a degree of contempt unparalleled, and in the
face of all tradition and all historical reality, they translated the
past of their people into _religious_ terms, which is to say, they
converted it into an idiotic mechanism of salvation, whereby all
offences against Jahveh were punished and all devotion to him was
rewarded. We would regard this act of historical falsification as
something far more shameful if familiarity with the _ecclesiastical_
interpretation of history for thousands of years had not blunted our
inclinations for uprightness _in historicis_. And the philosophers
support the church: the _lie_ about a "moral order of the world" runs
through the whole of philosophy, even the newest. What is the meaning
of a "moral order of the world"? That there is a thing called the will
of God which, once and for all time, determines what man ought to do and
what he ought not to do; that the worth of a people, or of an individual
thereof, is to be measured by the extent to which they or he obey this
will of God; that the destinies of a people or of an individual are
_controlled_ by this will of God, which rewards or punishes according to
the degree of obedience manifested.--In place of all that pitiable lie
_reality_ has this to say: the _priest_, a parasitical variety of man
who can exist only at the cost of every sound view of life, takes the
name of God in vain: he calls that state of human society in which he
himself determines the value of all things "the kingdom of God"; he
calls the means whereby that state of affairs is attained "the will of
God"; with cold-blooded cynicism he estimates all peoples, all ages and
all individuals by the extent of their subservience or opposition to the
power of the priestly order. One observes him at work: under the hand of
the Jewish priesthood the _great_ age of Israel became an age of
decline; the Exile, with its long series of misfortunes, was
transformed into a _punishment_ for that great age--during which priests
had not yet come into existence. Out of the powerful and _wholly free_
heroes of Israel's history they fashioned, according to their changing
needs, either wretched bigots and hypocrites or men entirely "godless."
They reduced every great event to the idiotic formula: "obedient _or_
disobedient to God."--They went a step further: the "will of God" (in
other words some means necessary for preserving the power of the
priests) had to be _determined_--and to this end they had to have a
"revelation." In plain English, a gigantic literary fraud had to be
perpetrated, and "holy scriptures" had to be concocted--and so, with the
utmost hierarchical pomp, and days of penance and much lamentation over
the long days of "sin" now ended, they were duly published. The "will of
God," it appears, had long stood like a rock; the trouble was that
mankind had neglected the "holy scriptures".... But the "will of God"
had already been revealed to Moses.... What happened? Simply this: the
priest had formulated, once and for all time and with the strictest
meticulousness, what tithes were to be paid to him, from the largest to
the smallest (--not forgetting the most appetizing cuts of meat, for
the priest is a great consumer of beefsteaks); in brief, he let it be
known just _what he wanted_, what "the will of God" was.... From this
time forward things were so arranged that the priest became
_indispensable everywhere_; at all the great natural events of life, at
birth, at marriage, in sickness, at death, not to say at the
"_sacrifice_" (that is, at meal-times), the holy parasite put in his
appearance, and proceeded to _denaturize_ it--in his own phrase, to
"sanctify" it.... For this should be noted: that every natural habit,
every natural institution (the state, the administration of justice,
marriage, the care of the sick and of the poor), everything demanded by
the life-instinct, in short, everything that has any value _in itself_,
is reduced to absolute worthlessness and even made the _reverse_ of
valuable by the parasitism of priests (or, if you chose, by the "moral
order of the world"). The fact requires a sanction--a power to _grant
values_ becomes necessary, and the only way it can create such values is
by denying nature.... The priest depreciates and desecrates nature: it
is only at this price that he can exist at all.--Disobedience to God,
which actually means to the priest, to "the law," now gets the name of
"sin"; the means prescribed for "reconciliation with God" are, of
course, precisely the means which bring one most effectively under the
thumb of the priest; he alone can "save".... Psychologically considered,
"sins" are indispensable to every society organized on an ecclesiastical
basis; they are the only reliable weapons of power; the priest _lives_
upon sins; it is necessary to him that there be "sinning".... Prime
axiom: "God forgiveth him that repenteth"--in plain English, _him that
submitteth to the priest_.


27.

Christianity sprang from a soil so corrupt that on it everything
natural, every natural value, every _reality_ was opposed by the deepest
instincts of the ruling class--it grew up as a sort of war to the death
upon reality, and as such it has never been surpassed. The "holy
people," who had adopted priestly values and priestly names for all
things, and who, with a terrible logical consistency, had rejected
everything of the earth as "unholy," "worldly," "sinful"--this people
put its instinct into a final formula that was logical to the point of
self-annihilation: as _Christianity_ it actually denied even the last
form of reality, the "holy people," the "chosen people," _Jewish_
reality itself. The phenomenon is of the first order of importance: the
small insurrectionary movement which took the name of Jesus of Nazareth
is simply the Jewish instinct _redivivus_--in other words, it is the
priestly instinct come to such a pass that it can no longer endure the
priest as a fact; it is the discovery of a state of existence even more
fantastic than any before it, of a vision of life even more _unreal_
than that necessary to an ecclesiastical organization. Christianity
actually _denies_ the church....

I am unable to determine what was the target of the insurrection said to
have been led (whether rightly or _wrongly_) by Jesus, if it was not the
Jewish church--"church" being here used in exactly the same sense that
the word has today. It was an insurrection against the "good and just,"
against the "prophets of Israel," against the whole hierarchy of
society--_not_ against corruption, but against caste, privilege, order,
formalism. It was _unbelief_ in "superior men," a Nay flung at
everything that priests and theologians stood for. But the hierarchy
that was called into question, if only for an instant, by this movement
was the structure of piles which, above everything, was necessary to the
safety of the Jewish people in the midst of the "waters"--it represented
their _last_ possibility of survival; it was the final _residuum_ of
their independent political existence; an attack upon it was an attack
upon the most profound national instinct, the most powerful national
will to live, that has ever appeared on earth. This saintly anarchist,
who aroused the people of the abyss, the outcasts and "sinners," the
Chandala of Judaism, to rise in revolt against the established order of
things--and in language which, if the Gospels are to be credited, would
get him sent to Siberia today--this man was certainly a political
criminal, at least in so far as it was possible to be one in so
_absurdly unpolitical_ a community. This is what brought him to the
cross: the proof thereof is to be found in the inscription that was put
upon the cross. He died for his _own_ sins--there is not the slightest
ground for believing, no matter how often it is asserted, that he died
for the sins of others.--


28.

As to whether he himself was conscious of this contradiction--whether,
in fact, this was the only contradiction he was cognizant of--that is
quite another question. Here, for the first time, I touch upon the
problem of the _psychology of the Saviour_.--I confess, to begin with,
that there are very few books which offer me harder reading than the
Gospels. My difficulties are quite different from those which enabled
the learned curiosity of the German mind to achieve one of its most
unforgettable triumphs. It is a long while since I, like all other young
scholars, enjoyed with all the sapient laboriousness of a fastidious
philologist the work of the incomparable Strauss.[5] At that time I was
twenty years old: now I am too serious for that sort of thing. What do I
care for the contradictions of "tradition"? How can any one call pious
legends "traditions"? The histories of saints present the most dubious
variety of literature in existence; to examine them by the scientific
method, _in the entire absence of corroborative documents_, seems to me
to condemn the whole inquiry from the start--it is simply learned
idling....

[5] David Friedrich Strauss (1808-74), author of "Das Leben Jesu"
(1835-6), a very famous work in its day. Nietzsche here refers to it.


29.

What concerns _me_ is the psychological type of the Saviour. This type
might be depicted in the Gospels, in however mutilated a form and
however much overladen with extraneous characters--that is, in _spite_
of the Gospels; just as the figure of Francis of Assisi shows itself in
his legends in spite of his legends. It is _not_ a question of mere
truthful evidence as to what he did, what he said and how he actually
died; the question is, whether his type is still conceivable, whether it
has been handed down to us.--All the attempts that I know of to read the
_history_ of a "soul" in the Gospels seem to me to reveal only a
lamentable psychological levity. M. Renan, that mountebank _in
psychologicus_, has contributed the two most _unseemly_ notions to this
business of explaining the type of Jesus: the notion of the _genius_ and
that of the _hero_ ("_héros_"). But if there is anything essentially
unevangelical, it is surely the concept of the hero. What the Gospels
make instinctive is precisely the reverse of all heroic struggle, of
all taste for conflict: the very incapacity for resistance is here
converted into something moral: ("resist not evil!"--the most profound
sentence in the Gospels, perhaps the true key to them), to wit, the
blessedness of peace, of gentleness, the _inability_ to be an enemy.
What is the meaning of "glad tidings"?--The true life, the life eternal
has been found--it is not merely promised, it is here, it is in _you_;
it is the life that lies in love free from all retreats and exclusions,
from all keeping of distances. Every one is the child of God--Jesus
claims nothing for himself alone--as the child of God each man is the
equal of every other man.... Imagine making Jesus a _hero_!--And what a
tremendous misunderstanding appears in the word "genius"! Our whole
conception of the "spiritual," the whole conception of our civilization,
could have had no meaning in the world that Jesus lived in. In the
strict sense of the physiologist, a quite different word ought to be
used here.... We all know that there is a morbid sensibility of the
tactile nerves which causes those suffering from it to recoil from every
touch, and from every effort to grasp a solid object. Brought to its
logical conclusion, such a physiological _habitus_ becomes an
instinctive hatred of all reality, a flight into the "intangible," into
the "incomprehensible"; a distaste for all formulae, for all conceptions
of time and space, for everything established--customs, institutions,
the church--; a feeling of being at home in a world in which no sort of
reality survives, a merely "inner" world, a "true" world, an "eternal"
world.... "The Kingdom of God is within _you_"....


30.

_The instinctive hatred of reality_: the consequence of an extreme
susceptibility to pain and irritation--so great that merely to be
"touched" becomes unendurable, for every sensation is too profound.

_The instinctive exclusion of all aversion, all hostility, all bounds
and distances in feeling_: the consequence of an extreme susceptibility
to pain and irritation--so great that it senses all resistance, all
compulsion to resistance, as unbearable _anguish_ (--that is to say, as
_harmful_, as _prohibited_ by the instinct of self-preservation), and
regards blessedness (joy) as possible only when it is no longer
necessary to offer resistance to anybody or anything, however evil or
dangerous--love, as the only, as the _ultimate_ possibility of life....

These are the two _physiological realities_ upon and out of which the
doctrine of salvation has sprung. I call them a sublime
super-development of hedonism upon a thoroughly unsalubrious soil. What
stands most closely related to them, though with a large admixture of
Greek vitality and nerve-force, is epicureanism, the theory of salvation
of paganism. Epicurus was a _typical décadent_: I was the first to
recognize him.--The fear of pain, even of infinitely slight pain--the
end of this _can_ be nothing save a _religion of love_....


31.

I have already given my answer to the problem. The prerequisite to it is
the assumption that the type of the Saviour has reached us only in a
greatly distorted form. This distortion is very probable: there are many
reasons why a type of that sort should not be handed down in a pure
form, complete and free of additions. The milieu in which this strange
figure moved must have left marks upon him, and more must have been
imprinted by the history, the _destiny_, of the early Christian
communities; the latter indeed, must have embellished the type
retrospectively with characters which can be understood only as serving
the purposes of war and of propaganda. That strange and sickly world
into which the Gospels lead us--a world apparently out of a Russian
novel, in which the scum of society, nervous maladies and "childish"
idiocy keep a tryst--must, in any case, have _coarsened_ the type: the
first disciples, in particular, must have been forced to translate an
existence visible only in symbols and incomprehensibilities into their
own crudity, in order to understand it at all--in their sight the type
could take on reality only after it had been recast in a familiar
mould.... The prophet, the messiah, the future judge, the teacher of
morals, the worker of wonders, John the Baptist--all these merely
presented chances to misunderstand it.... Finally, let us not underrate
the _proprium_ of all great, and especially all sectarian veneration: it
tends to erase from the venerated objects all its original traits and
idiosyncrasies, often so painfully strange--_it does not even see
them_. It is greatly to be regretted that no Dostoyevsky lived in the
neighbourhood of this most interesting _décadent_--I mean some one who
would have felt the poignant charm of such a compound of the sublime,
the morbid and the childish. In the last analysis, the type, as a type
of the _décadence_, may actually have been peculiarly complex and
contradictory: such a possibility is not to be lost sight of.
Nevertheless, the probabilities seem to be against it, for in that case
tradition would have been particularly accurate and objective, whereas
we have reasons for assuming the contrary. Meanwhile, there is a
contradiction between the peaceful preacher of the mount, the sea-shore
and the fields, who appears like a new Buddha on a soil very unlike
India's, and the aggressive fanatic, the mortal enemy of theologians and
ecclesiastics, who stands glorified by Renan's malice as "_le grand
maître en ironie_." I myself haven't any doubt that the greater part of
this venom (and no less of _esprit_) got itself into the concept of the
Master only as a result of the excited nature of Christian propaganda:
we all know the unscrupulousness of sectarians when they set out to turn
their leader into an _apologia_ for themselves. When the early
Christians had need of an adroit, contentious, pugnacious and
maliciously subtle theologian to tackle other theologians, they
_created_ a "god" that met that need, just as they put into his mouth
without hesitation certain ideas that were necessary to them but that
were utterly at odds with the Gospels--"the second coming," "the last
judgment," all sorts of expectations and promises, current at the
time.--


32.

I can only repeat that I set myself against all efforts to intrude the
fanatic into the figure of the Saviour: the very word _impérieux_, used
by Renan, is alone enough to _annul_ the type. What the "glad tidings"
tell us is simply that there are no more contradictions; the kingdom of
heaven belongs to _children_; the faith that is voiced here is no more
an embattled faith--it is at hand, it has been from the beginning, it is
a sort of recrudescent childishness of the spirit. The physiologists, at
all events, are familiar with such a delayed and incomplete puberty in
the living organism, the result of degeneration. A faith of this sort is
not furious, it does not denounce, it does not defend itself: it does
not come with "the sword"--it does not realize how it will one day set
man against man. It does not manifest itself either by miracles, or by
rewards and promises, or by "scriptures": it is itself, first and last,
its own miracle, its own reward, its own promise, its own "kingdom of
God." This faith does not formulate itself--it simply _lives_, and so
guards itself against formulae. To be sure, the accident of environment,
of educational background gives prominence to concepts of a certain
sort: in primitive Christianity one finds _only_ concepts of a
Judaeo-Semitic character (--that of eating and drinking at the last
supper belongs to this category--an idea which, like everything else
Jewish, has been badly mauled by the church). But let us be careful not
to see in all this anything more than symbolical language, semantics[6]
an opportunity to speak in parables. It is only on the theory that no
work is to be taken literally that this anti-realist is able to speak at
all. Set down among Hindus he would have made use of the concepts of
Sankhya,[7] and among Chinese he would have employed those of
Lao-tse[8]--and in neither case would it have made any difference to
him.--With a little freedom in the use of words, one might actually call
Jesus a "free spirit"[9]--he cares nothing for what is established: the
word _killeth_,[10] whatever is established _killeth_. The idea of
"life" as an _experience_, as he alone conceives it, stands opposed to
his mind to every sort of word, formula, law, belief and dogma. He
speaks only of inner things: "life" or "truth" or "light" is his word
for the innermost--in his sight everything else, the whole of reality,
all nature, even language, has significance only as sign, as
allegory.--Here it is of paramount importance to be led into no error by
the temptations lying in Christian, or rather _ecclesiastical_
prejudices: such a symbolism _par excellence_ stands outside all
religion, all notions of worship, all history, all natural science, all
worldly experience, all knowledge, all politics, all psychology, all
books, all art--his "wisdom" is precisely a _pure ignorance_[11] of all
such things. He has never heard of _culture_; he doesn't have to make
war on it--he doesn't even deny it.... The same thing may be said of the
_state_, of the whole bourgeoise social order, of labour, of war--he has
no ground for denying "the world," for he knows nothing of the
ecclesiastical concept of "the world".... _Denial_ is precisely the
thing that is impossible to him.--In the same way he lacks argumentative
capacity, and has no belief that an article of faith, a "truth," may be
established by proofs (--_his_ proofs are inner "lights," subjective
sensations of happiness and self-approval, simple "proofs of power"--).
Such a doctrine _cannot_ contradict: it doesn't know that other
doctrines exist, or _can_ exist, and is wholly incapable of imagining
anything opposed to it.... If anything of the sort is ever encountered,
it laments the "blindness" with sincere sympathy--for it alone has
"light"--but it does not offer objections....

[6] The word _Semiotik_ is in the text, but it is probable that
_Semantik_ is what Nietzsche had in mind.

[7] One of the six great systems of Hindu philosophy.

[8] The reputed founder of Taoism.

[9] Nietzsche's name for one accepting his own philosophy.

[10] That is, the strict letter of the law--the chief target of Jesus's
early preaching.

[11] A reference to the "pure ignorance" (_reine Thorheit_) of Parsifal.


33.

In the whole psychology of the "Gospels" the concepts of guilt and
punishment are lacking, and so is that of reward. "Sin," which means
anything that puts a distance between God and man, is abolished--_this
is precisely the "glad tidings."_ Eternal bliss is not merely promised,
nor is it bound up with conditions: it is conceived as the _only_
reality--what remains consists merely of signs useful in speaking of it.

The _results_ of such a point of view project themselves into a new _way
of life_, the special evangelical way of life. It is not a "belief" that
marks off the Christian; he is distinguished by a different mode of
action; he acts _differently_. He offers no resistance, either by word
or in his heart, to those who stand against him. He draws no distinction
between strangers and countrymen, Jews and Gentiles ("neighbour," of
course, means fellow-believer, Jew). He is angry with no one, and he
despises no one. He neither appeals to the courts of justice nor heeds
their mandates ("Swear not at all").[12] He never under any
circumstances divorces his wife, even when he has proofs of her
infidelity.--And under all of this is one principle; all of it arises
from one instinct.--

[12] Matthew v, 34.

The life of the Saviour was simply a carrying out of this way of
life--and so was his death.... He no longer needed any formula or ritual
in his relations with God--not even prayer. He had rejected the whole of
the Jewish doctrine of repentance and atonement; he _knew_ that it was
only by a _way_ of life that one could feel one's self "divine,"
"blessed," "evangelical," a "child of God." _Not_ by "repentance," _not_
by "prayer and forgiveness" is the way to God: _only the Gospel way_
leads to God--it is _itself_ "God!"--What the Gospels _abolished_ was
the Judaism in the concepts of "sin," "forgiveness of sin," "faith,"
"salvation through faith"--the whole _ecclesiastical_ dogma of the Jews
was denied by the "glad tidings."

The deep instinct which prompts the Christian how to _live_ so that he
will feel that he is "in heaven" and is "immortal," despite many reasons
for feeling that he is _not_ "in heaven": this is the only psychological
reality in "salvation."--A new way of life, _not_ a new faith....


34.

If I understand anything at all about this great symbolist, it is this:
that he regarded only _subjective_ realities as realities, as
"truths"--that he saw everything else, everything natural, temporal,
spatial and historical, merely as signs, as materials for parables. The
concept of "the Son of God" does not connote a concrete person in
history, an isolated and definite individual, but an "eternal" fact, a
psychological symbol set free from the concept of time. The same thing
is true, and in the highest sense, of the _God_ of this typical
symbolist, of the "kingdom of God," and of the "sonship of God." Nothing
could be more un-Christian than the _crude ecclesiastical_ notions of
God as a _person_, of a "kingdom of God" that is to come, of a "kingdom
of heaven" beyond, and of a "son of God" as the _second person_ of the
Trinity. All this--if I may be forgiven the phrase--is like thrusting
one's fist into the eye (and what an eye!) of the Gospels: a disrespect
for symbols amounting to _world-historical cynicism_.... But it is
nevertheless obvious enough what is meant by the symbols "Father" and
"Son"--not, of course, to every one--: the word "Son" expresses
_entrance_ into the feeling that there is a general transformation of
all things (beatitude), and "Father" expresses _that feeling
itself_--the sensation of eternity and of perfection.--I am ashamed to
remind you of what the church has made of this symbolism: has it not set
an Amphitryon story[13] at the threshold of the Christian "faith"? And a
dogma of "immaculate conception" for good measure?... _And thereby it
has robbed conception of its immaculateness_--

[13] Amphitryon was the son of Alcaeus, King of Tiryns.
His wife was Alcmene. During his absence she was visited by Zeus, and
bore Heracles.

The "kingdom of heaven" is a state of the heart--not something to come
"beyond the world" or "after death." The whole idea of natural death is
_absent_ from the Gospels: death is not a bridge, not a passing; it is
absent because it belongs to a quite different, a merely apparent world,
useful only as a symbol. The "hour of death" is _not_ a Christian
idea--"hours," time, the physical life and its crises have no existence
for the bearer of "glad tidings."... The "kingdom of God" is not
something that men wait for: it had no yesterday and no day after
tomorrow, it is not going to come at a "millennium"--it is an experience
of the heart, it is everywhere and it is nowhere....


35.

This "bearer of glad tidings" died as he lived and _taught_--_not_ to
"save mankind," but to show mankind how to live. It was a _way of life_
that he bequeathed to man: his demeanour before the judges, before the
officers, before his accusers--his demeanour on the _cross_. He does not
resist; he does not defend his rights; he makes no effort to ward off
the most extreme penalty--more, _he invites it_.... And he prays,
suffers and loves _with_ those, _in_ those, who do him evil.... _Not_ to
defend one's self, _not_ to show anger, _not_ to lay blames.... On the
contrary, to submit even to the Evil One--to _love_ him....


36.

--We free spirits--we are the first to have the necessary prerequisite
to understanding what nineteen centuries have misunderstood--that
instinct and passion for integrity which makes war upon the "holy lie"
even more than upon all other lies.... Mankind was unspeakably far from
our benevolent and cautious neutrality, from that discipline of the
spirit which alone makes possible the solution of such strange and
subtle things: what men always sought, with shameless egoism, was their
_own_ advantage therein; they created the _church_ out of denial of the
Gospels....

Whoever sought for signs of an ironical divinity's hand in the great
drama of existence would find no small indication thereof in the
_stupendous question-mark_ that is called Christianity. That mankind
should be on its knees before the very antithesis of what was the
origin, the meaning and the _law_ of the Gospels--that in the concept of
the "church" the very things should be pronounced holy that the "bearer
of glad tidings" regards as _beneath_ him and _behind_ him--it would be
impossible to surpass this as a grand example of _world-historical
irony_--


37.

--Our age is proud of its historical sense: how, then, could it delude
itself into believing that the _crude fable of the wonder-worker and
Saviour_ constituted the beginnings of Christianity--and that everything
spiritual and symbolical in it only came later? Quite to the contrary,
the whole history of Christianity--from the death on the cross
onward--is the history of a progressively clumsier misunderstanding of
an _original_ symbolism. With every extension of Christianity among
larger and ruder masses, even less capable of grasping the principles
that gave birth to it, the need arose to make it more and more _vulgar_
and _barbarous_--it absorbed the teachings and rites of all the
_subterranean_ cults of the _imperium Romanum_, and the absurdities
engendered by all sorts of sickly reasoning. It was the fate of
Christianity that its faith had to become as sickly, as low and as
vulgar as the needs were sickly, low and vulgar to which it had to
administer. A _sickly barbarism_ finally lifts itself to power as the
church--the church, that incarnation of deadly hostility to all honesty,
to all loftiness of soul, to all discipline of the spirit, to all
spontaneous and kindly humanity.--_Christian_ values--_noble_ values: it
is only we, we _free_ spirits, who have re-established this greatest of
all antitheses in values!...


38.

--I cannot, at this place, avoid a sigh. There are days when I am
visited by a feeling blacker than the blackest melancholy--_contempt of
man_. Let me leave no doubt as to _what_ I despise, _whom_ I despise:
it is the man of today, the man with whom I am unhappily
contemporaneous. The man of today--I am suffocated by his foul
breath!... Toward the past, like all who understand, I am full of
tolerance, which is to say, _generous_ self-control: with gloomy caution
I pass through whole millenniums of this madhouse of a world, call it
"Christianity," "Christian faith" or the "Christian church," as you
will--I take care not to hold mankind responsible for its lunacies. But
my feeling changes and breaks out irresistibly the moment I enter modern
times, _our_ times. Our age _knows better_.... What was formerly merely
sickly now becomes indecent--it is indecent to be a Christian today.
_And here my disgust begins._--I look about me: not a word survives of
what was once called "truth"; we can no longer bear to hear a priest
pronounce the word. Even a man who makes the most modest pretensions to
integrity _must_ know that a theologian, a priest, a pope of today not
only errs when he speaks, but actually _lies_--and that he no longer
escapes blame for his lie through "innocence" or "ignorance." The priest
knows, as every one knows, that there is no longer any "God," or any
"sinner," or any "Saviour"--that "free will" and the "moral order of the
world" are lies--: serious reflection, the profound self-conquest of the
spirit, _allow_ no man to pretend that he does _not_ know it.... _All_
the ideas of the church are now recognized for what they are--as the
worst counterfeits in existence, invented to debase nature and all
natural values; the priest himself is seen as he actually is--as the
most dangerous form of parasite, as the venomous spider of creation....
We know, our _conscience_ now knows--just _what_ the real value of all
those sinister inventions of priest and church has been and _what ends
they have served_, with their debasement of humanity to a state of
self-pollution, the very sight of which excites loathing,--the concepts
"the other world," "the last judgment," "the immortality of the soul,"
the "soul" itself: they are all merely so many instruments of torture,
systems of cruelty, whereby the priest becomes master and remains
master.... Every one knows this, _but nevertheless things remain as
before_. What has become of the last trace of decent feeling, of
self-respect, when our statesmen, otherwise an unconventional class of
men and thoroughly anti-Christian in their acts, now call themselves
Christians and go to the communion-table?... A prince at the head of his
armies, magnificent as the expression of the egoism and arrogance of his
people--and yet acknowledging, _without_ any shame, that he is a
Christian!... Whom, then, does Christianity deny? _what_ does it call
"the world"? To be a _soldier_, to be a judge, to be a patriot; to
defend one's self; to be careful of one's honour; to desire one's own
advantage; to be _proud_ ... every act of everyday, every instinct,
every valuation that shows itself in a _deed_, is now anti-Christian:
what a _monster of falsehood_ the modern man must be to call himself
nevertheless, and _without_ shame, a Christian!--


39.

--I shall go back a bit, and tell you the _authentic_ history of
Christianity.--The very word "Christianity" is a misunderstanding--at
bottom there was only one Christian, and he died on the cross. The
"Gospels" _died_ on the cross. What, from that moment onward, was called
the "Gospels" was the very reverse of what _he_ had lived: "bad
tidings," a _Dysangelium_.[14] It is an error amounting to
nonsensicality to see in "faith," and particularly in faith in salvation
through Christ, the distinguishing mark of the Christian: only the
Christian _way of life_, the life _lived_ by him who died on the cross,
is Christian.... To this day _such_ a life is still possible, and for
_certain_ men even necessary: genuine, primitive Christianity will
remain possible in all ages.... _Not_ faith, but acts; above all, an
_avoidance_ of acts, a different _state of being_.... States of
consciousness, faith of a sort, the acceptance, for example, of anything
as true--as every psychologist knows, the value of these things is
perfectly indifferent and fifth-rate compared to that of the instincts:
strictly speaking, the whole concept of intellectual causality is false.
To reduce being a Christian, the state of Christianity, to an acceptance
of truth, to a mere phenomenon of consciousness, is to formulate the
negation of Christianity. _In fact, there are no Christians._ The
"Christian"--he who for two thousand years has passed as a Christian--is
simply a psychological self-delusion. Closely examined, it appears
that, _despite_ all his "faith," he has been ruled _only_ by his
instincts--and _what instincts_!--In all ages--for example, in the case
of Luther--"faith" has been no more than a cloak, a pretense, a _curtain_
behind which the instincts have played their game--a shrewd _blindness_
to the domination of _certain_ of the instincts.... I have already
called "faith" the specially Christian form of _shrewdness_--people
always _talk_ of their "faith" and _act_ according to their
instincts.... In the world of ideas of the Christian there is nothing
that so much as touches reality: on the contrary, one recognizes
an instinctive _hatred_ of reality as the motive power, the only motive
power at the bottom of Christianity. What follows therefrom? That even
here, in _psychologicis_, there is a radical error, which is to say one
conditioning fundamentals, which is to say, one in _substance_. Take
away one idea and put a genuine reality in its place--and the whole of
Christianity crumbles to nothingness!--Viewed calmly, this strangest of
all phenomena, a religion not only depending on errors, but inventive
and ingenious _only_ in devising injurious errors, poisonous to life
and to the heart--this remains a _spectacle for the gods_--for those
gods who are also philosophers, and whom I have encountered, for
example, in the celebrated dialogues at Naxos. At the moment when their
_disgust_ leaves them (--and us!) they will be thankful for the
spectacle afforded by the Christians: perhaps because of _this_ curious
exhibition alone the wretched little planet called the earth deserves a
glance from omnipotence, a show of divine interest.... Therefore, let us
not underestimate the Christians: the Christian, false _to the point of
innocence_, is far above the ape--in its application to the Christians a
well-known theory of descent becomes a mere piece of politeness....

[14] So in the text. One of Nietzsche's numerous coinages, obviously
suggested by _Evangelium_, the German for _gospel_.


40.

--The fate of the Gospels was decided by death--it hung on the "cross."...
It was only death, that unexpected and shameful death; it was only
the cross, which was usually reserved for the canaille only--it was only
this appalling paradox which brought the disciples face to face with the
real riddle: "_Who was it? what was it_?"--The feeling of dismay, of
profound affront and injury; the suspicion that such a death might
involve a _refutation_ of their cause; the terrible question, "Why just
in this way?"--this state of mind is only too easy to understand. Here
everything _must_ be accounted for as necessary; everything must have a
meaning, a reason, the highest sort of reason; the love of a disciple
excludes all chance. Only then did the chasm of doubt yawn: "_Who_ put
him to death? who was his natural enemy?"--this question flashed like a
lightning-stroke. Answer: dominant Judaism, its ruling class. From that
moment, one found one's self in revolt _against_ the established order,
and began to understand Jesus as _in revolt against the established
order_. Until then this militant, this nay-saying, nay-doing element in
his character had been lacking; what is more, he had appeared to present
its opposite. Obviously, the little community had _not_ understood what
was precisely the most important thing of all: the example offered by
this way of dying, the freedom from and superiority to every feeling of
_ressentiment_--a plain indication of how little he was understood at
all! All that Jesus could hope to accomplish by his death, in itself,
was to offer the strongest possible proof, or _example_, of his
teachings in the most public manner.... But his disciples were very far
from _forgiving_ his death--though to have done so would have accorded
with the Gospels in the highest degree; and neither were they prepared
to _offer_ themselves, with gentle and serene calmness of heart, for a
similar death.... On the contrary, it was precisely the most
unevangelical of feelings, _revenge_, that now possessed them. It seemed
impossible that the cause should perish with his death: "recompense" and
"judgment" became necessary (--yet what could be less evangelical than
"recompense," "punishment," and "sitting in judgment"!). Once more the
popular belief in the coming of a messiah appeared in the foreground;
attention was rivetted upon an historical moment: the "kingdom of God"
is to come, with judgment upon his enemies.... But in all this there was
a wholesale misunderstanding: imagine the "kingdom of God" as a last
act, as a mere promise! The Gospels had been, in fact, the incarnation,
the fulfilment, the _realization_ of this "kingdom of God." It was only
now that all the familiar contempt for and bitterness against Pharisees
and theologians began to appear in the character of the Master--he was
thereby _turned_ into a Pharisee and theologian himself! On the other
hand, the savage veneration of these completely unbalanced souls could
no longer endure the Gospel doctrine, taught by Jesus, of the equal
right of all men to be children of God: their revenge took the form of
_elevating_ Jesus in an extravagant fashion, and thus separating him
from themselves: just as, in earlier times, the Jews, to revenge
themselves upon their enemies, separated themselves from their God, and
placed him on a great height. The One God and the Only Son of God: both
were products of _ressentiment_....


41.

--And from that time onward an absurd problem offered itself: "how
_could_ God allow it!" To which the deranged reason of the little
community formulated an answer that was terrifying in its absurdity: God
gave his son as a _sacrifice_ for the forgiveness of sins. At once there
was an end of the gospels! Sacrifice for sin, and in its most obnoxious
and barbarous form: sacrifice of the _innocent_ for the sins of the
guilty! What appalling paganism!--Jesus himself had done away with the
very concept of "guilt," he denied that there was any gulf fixed between
God and man; he _lived_ this unity between God and man, and that was
precisely _his_ "glad tidings".... And _not_ as a mere privilege!--From
this time forward the type of the Saviour was corrupted, bit by bit, by
the doctrine of judgment and of the second coming, the doctrine of death
as a sacrifice, the doctrine of the _resurrection_, by means of which
the entire concept of "blessedness," the whole and only reality of the
gospels, is juggled away--in favour of a state of existence _after_
death!... St. Paul, with that rabbinical impudence which shows itself in
all his doings, gave a logical quality to that conception, that
_indecent_ conception, in this way: "_If_ Christ did not rise from the
dead, then all our faith is in vain!"--And at once there sprang from the
Gospels the most contemptible of all unfulfillable promises, the
_shameless_ doctrine of personal immortality.... Paul even preached it
as a _reward_....


42.

One now begins to see just _what_ it was that came to an end with the
death on the cross: a new and thoroughly original effort to found a
Buddhistic peace movement, and so establish _happiness on earth_--real,
_not_ merely promised. For this remains--as I have already pointed
out--the essential difference between the two religions of _décadence_:
Buddhism promises nothing, but actually fulfils; Christianity promises
everything, but _fulfils nothing_.--Hard upon the heels of the "glad
tidings" came the worst imaginable: those of Paul. In Paul is incarnated
the very opposite of the "bearer of glad tidings"; he represents the
genius for hatred, the vision of hatred, the relentless logic of hatred.
_What_, indeed, has not this dysangelist sacrificed to hatred! Above
all, the Saviour: he nailed him to _his own_ cross. The life, the
example, the teaching, the death of Christ, the meaning and the law of
the whole gospels--nothing was left of all this after that counterfeiter
in hatred had reduced it to his uses. Surely _not_ reality; surely _not_
historical truth!... Once more the priestly instinct of the Jew
perpetrated the same old master crime against history--he simply struck
out the yesterday and the day before yesterday of Christianity, and
_invented his own history of Christian beginnings_. Going further, he
treated the history of Israel to another falsification, so that it
became a mere prologue to _his_ achievement: all the prophets, it now
appeared, had referred to _his_ "Saviour."... Later on the church even
falsified the history of man in order to make it a prologue to
Christianity.... The figure of the Saviour, his teaching, his way of
life, his death, the meaning of his death, even the consequences of his
death--nothing remained untouched, nothing remained in even remote
contact with reality. Paul simply shifted the centre of gravity of that
whole life to a place _behind_ this existence--in the _lie_ of the
"risen" Jesus. At bottom, he had no use for the life of the
Saviour--what he needed was the death on the cross, _and_ something
more. To see anything honest in such a man as Paul, whose home was at
the centre of the Stoical enlightenment, when he converts an
hallucination into a _proof_ of the resurrection of the Saviour, or even
to believe his tale that he suffered from this hallucination
himself--this would be a genuine _niaiserie_ in a psychologist. Paul
willed the end; _therefore_ he also willed the means.... What he himself
didn't believe was swallowed readily enough by the idiots among whom he
spread _his_ teaching.--What _he_ wanted was power; in Paul the priest
once more reached out for power--he had use only for such concepts,
teachings and symbols as served the purpose of tyrannizing over the
masses and organizing mobs. _What_ was the only part of Christianity
that Mohammed borrowed later on? Paul's invention, his device for
establishing priestly tyranny and organizing the mob: the belief in the
immortality of the soul--_that is to say, the doctrine of
"judgment"_....


43.

When the centre of gravity of life is placed, _not_ in life itself, but
in "the beyond"--in _nothingness_--then one has taken away its centre of
gravity altogether. The vast lie of personal immortality destroys all
reason, all natural instinct--henceforth, everything in the instincts
that is beneficial, that fosters life and that safeguards the future is
a cause of suspicion. So to live that life no longer has any meaning:
_this_ is now the "meaning" of life.... Why be public-spirited? Why take
any pride in descent and forefathers? Why labour together, trust one
another, or concern one's self about the common welfare, and try to
serve it?... Merely so many "temptations," so many strayings from the
"straight path."--"_One_ thing only is necessary".... That every man,
because he has an "immortal soul," is as good as every other man; that
in an infinite universe of things the "salvation" of _every_ individual
may lay claim to eternal importance; that insignificant bigots and the
three-fourths insane may assume that the laws of nature are constantly
_suspended_ in their behalf--it is impossible to lavish too much
contempt upon such a magnification of every sort of selfishness to
infinity, to _insolence_. And yet Christianity has to thank precisely
_this_ miserable flattery of personal vanity for its _triumph_--it was
thus that it lured all the botched, the dissatisfied, the fallen upon
evil days, the whole refuse and off-scouring of humanity to its side.
The "salvation of the soul"--in plain English: "the world revolves
around _me_."... The poisonous doctrine, "_equal_ rights for all," has
been propagated as a Christian principle: out of the secret nooks and
crannies of bad instinct Christianity has waged a deadly war upon all
feelings of reverence and distance between man and man, which is to
say, upon the first _prerequisite_ to every step upward, to every
development of civilization--out of the _ressentiment_ of the masses it
has forged its chief weapons against _us_, against everything noble,
joyous and high-spirited on earth, against our happiness on earth.... To
allow "immortality" to every Peter and Paul was the greatest, the most
vicious outrage upon _noble_ humanity ever perpetrated.--_And_ let us
not underestimate the fatal influence that Christianity has had, even
upon politics! Nowadays no one has courage any more for special rights,
for the right of dominion, for feelings of honourable pride in himself
and his equals--for the _pathos of distance_.... Our politics is sick
with this lack of courage!--The aristocratic attitude of mind has been
undermined by the lie of the equality of souls; and if belief in the
"privileges of the majority" makes and _will continue to make_
revolutions--it is Christianity, let us not doubt, and _Christian_
valuations, which convert every revolution into a carnival of blood and
crime! Christianity is a revolt of all creatures that creep on the
ground against everything that is _lofty_: the gospel of the "lowly"
_lowers_....


44.

--The gospels are invaluable as evidence of the corruption that was
already persistent _within_ the primitive community. That which Paul,
with the cynical logic of a rabbi, later developed to a conclusion was
at bottom merely a process of decay that had begun with the death of the
Saviour.--These gospels cannot be read too carefully; difficulties lurk
behind every word. I confess--I hope it will not be held against
me--that it is precisely for this reason that they offer first-rate joy
to a psychologist--as the _opposite_ of all merely naïve corruption, as
refinement _par excellence_, as an artistic triumph in psychological
corruption. The gospels, in fact, stand alone. The Bible as a whole is
not to be compared to them. Here we are among Jews: this is the _first_
thing to be borne in mind if we are not to lose the thread of the
matter. This positive genius for conjuring up a delusion of personal
"holiness" unmatched anywhere else, either in books or by men; this
elevation of fraud in word and attitude to the level of an _art_--all
this is not an accident due to the chance talents of an individual, or
to any violation of nature. The thing responsible is _race_. The whole
of Judaism appears in Christianity as the art of concocting holy lies,
and there, after many centuries of earnest Jewish training and hard
practice of Jewish technic, the business comes to the stage of mastery.
The Christian, that _ultima ratio_ of lying, is the Jew all over
again--he is _threefold_ the Jew.... The underlying will to make use
only of such concepts, symbols and attitudes as fit into priestly
practice, the instinctive repudiation of every _other_ mode of thought,
and every other method of estimating values and utilities--this is not
only tradition, it is _inheritance_: only as an inheritance is it able
to operate with the force of nature. The whole of mankind, even the best
minds of the best ages (with one exception, perhaps hardly human--),
have permitted themselves to be deceived. The gospels have been read as
a _book of innocence_ ... surely no small indication of the high skill
with which the trick has been done.--Of course, if we could actually
_see_ these astounding bigots and bogus saints, even if only for an
instant, the farce would come to an end,--and it is precisely because
_I_ cannot read a word of theirs without seeing their attitudinizing
that _I have made an end of them_.... I simply cannot endure the way
they have of rolling up their eyes.--For the majority, happily enough,
books are mere _literature_.--Let us not be led astray: they say "judge
not," and yet they condemn to hell whoever stands in their way. In
letting God sit in judgment they judge themselves; in glorifying God
they glorify themselves; in _demanding_ that every one show the virtues
which they themselves happen to be capable of--still more, which they
_must_ have in order to remain on top--they assume the grand air of men
struggling for virtue, of men engaging in a war that virtue may prevail.
"We live, we die, we sacrifice ourselves _for the good_" (--"the truth,"
"the light," "the kingdom of God"): in point of fact, they simply do
what they cannot help doing. Forced, like hypocrites, to be sneaky, to
hide in corners, to slink along in the shadows, they convert their
necessity into a _duty_: it is on grounds of duty that they account for
their lives of humility, and that humility becomes merely one more proof
of their piety.... Ah, that humble, chaste, charitable brand of fraud!
"Virtue itself shall bear witness for us."... One may read the gospels
as books of _moral_ seduction: these petty folks fasten themselves to
morality--they know the uses of morality! Morality is the best of all
devices for leading mankind _by the nose_!--The fact is that the
conscious conceit of the chosen here disguises itself as modesty: it is
in this way that _they_, the "community," the "good and just," range
themselves, once and for always, on one side, the side of "the
truth"--and the rest of mankind, "the world," on the other.... In _that_
we observe the most fatal sort of megalomania that the earth has ever
seen: little abortions of bigots and liars began to claim exclusive
rights in the concepts of "God," "the truth," "the light," "the spirit,"
"love," "wisdom" and "life," as if these things were synonyms of
themselves and thereby they sought to fence themselves off from the
"world"; little super-Jews, ripe for some sort of madhouse, turned
values upside down in order to meet _their_ notions, just as if the
Christian were the meaning, the salt, the standard and even the _last
judgment_ of all the rest.... The whole disaster was only made possible
by the fact that there already existed in the world a similar
megalomania, allied to this one in race, to wit, the _Jewish_: once a
chasm began to yawn between Jews and Judaeo-Christians, the latter had
no choice but to employ the self-preservative measures that the Jewish
instinct had devised, even _against_ the Jews themselves, whereas the
Jews had employed them only against non-Jews. The Christian is simply a
Jew of the "reformed" confession.--


45.

--I offer a few examples of the sort of thing these petty people have
got into their heads--what they have _put into the mouth_ of the Master:
the unalloyed creed of "beautiful souls."--

"And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear you, when ye depart
thence, shake off the dust under your feet for a testimony against them.
Verily I say unto you, it shall be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrha
in the day of judgment, than for that city" (Mark vi, 11)--How
_evangelical_!...

"And whosoever shall offend one of _these_ little ones that believe in
me, it is better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck,
and he were cast into the sea" (Mark ix, 42).--How _evangelical_!...

"And if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out: it is better for
thee to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes
to be cast into hell fire; Where the worm dieth not, and the fire is not
quenched." (Mark ix, 47.[15])--It is not exactly the eye that is
meant....

[15] To which, without mentioning it, Nietzsche adds verse 48.

"Verily I say unto you, That there be some of them that stand here,
which shall not taste of death, till they have seen the kingdom of God
come with power." (Mark ix, 1.)--Well _lied_, lion![16]...

[16] A paraphrase of Demetrius' "Well roar'd, Lion!" in act v, scene 1
of "A Midsummer Night's Dream." The lion, of course, is the familiar
Christian symbol for Mark.

"Whosoever will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his
cross, and follow me. _For_..." (_Note of a psychologist._ Christian
morality is refuted by its _fors_: its reasons are against it,--this
makes it Christian.) Mark viii, 34.--

"Judge not, that ye be not judged. With what measure ye mete, it shall
be measured to you again." (Matthew vii, 1.[17])--What a notion of
justice, of a "just" judge!...

[17] Nietzsche also quotes part of verse 2.

"For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? do not even
the publicans the same? And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye
more _than others_? do not even the publicans so?" (Matthew v,
46.[18])--Principle of "Christian love": it insists upon being well
_paid_ in the end....

[18] The quotation also includes verse 47.

"But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father
forgive your trespasses." (Matthew vi, 15.)--Very compromising for the
said "father."...

"But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all
these things shall be added unto you." (Matthew vi, 33.)--All these
things: namely, food, clothing, all the necessities of life. An _error_,
to put it mildly.... A bit before this God appears as a tailor, at least
in certain cases....

"Rejoice ye in that day, and leap for joy: for, behold, your reward _is_
great in heaven: for in the like manner did their fathers unto the
prophets." (Luke vi, 23.)--_Impudent_ rabble! It compares itself to the
prophets....

"Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and _that_ the spirit of God
dwelleth in you? If any man defile the temple of God, _him shall God
destroy_; for the temple of God is holy, _which temple ye are_." (Paul,
1 Corinthians iii, 16.[19])--For that sort of thing one cannot have
enough contempt....

[19] And 17.

"Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the world? and if the world
shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters?"
(Paul, 1 Corinthians vi, 2.)--Unfortunately, not merely the speech of
a lunatic.... This _frightful impostor_ then proceeds: "Know ye not
that we shall judge angels? how much more things that pertain to this
life?"...

"Hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world? For after that in
the wisdom of God the world by wisdom knew not God, it pleased God by
the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe.... Not many wise
men after the flesh, not men mighty, not many noble _are called_: But
God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise;
and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things
which are mighty; And base things of the world, and things which are
despised, hath God chosen, _yea_, and things which are not, to bring to
nought things that are: That no flesh should glory in his presence."
(Paul, 1 Corinthians i, 20ff.[20])--In order to _understand_ this
passage, a first-rate example of the psychology underlying every
Chandala-morality, one should read the first part of my "Genealogy of
Morals": there, for the first time, the antagonism between a _noble_
morality and a morality born of _ressentiment_ and impotent vengefulness
is exhibited. Paul was the greatest of all apostles of revenge....

[20] Verses 20, 21, 26, 27, 28, 29.


46.

--_What follows, then?_ That one had better put on gloves before reading
the New Testament. The presence of so much filth makes it very
advisable. One would as little choose "early Christians" for companions
as Polish Jews: not that one need seek out an objection to them....
Neither has a pleasant smell.--I have searched the New Testament in vain
for a single sympathetic touch; nothing is there that is free, kindly,
open-hearted or upright. In it humanity does not even make the first
step upward--the instinct for _cleanliness_ is lacking.... Only _evil_
instincts are there, and there is not even the courage of these evil
instincts. It is all cowardice; it is all a shutting of the eyes, a
self-deception. Every other book becomes clean, once one has read the
New Testament: for example, immediately after reading Paul I took up
with delight that most charming and wanton of scoffers, Petronius, of
whom one may say what Domenico Boccaccio wrote of Cæsar Borgia to the
Duke of Parma: "_è tutto festo_"--immortally healthy, immortally
cheerful and sound.... These petty bigots make a capital miscalculation.
They attack, but everything they attack is thereby _distinguished_.
Whoever is attacked by an "early Christian" is surely _not_ befouled....
On the contrary, it is an honour to have an "early Christian" as an
opponent. One cannot read the New Testament without acquired admiration
for whatever it abuses--not to speak of the "wisdom of this world,"
which an impudent wind-bag tries to dispose of "by the foolishness of
preaching."... Even the scribes and pharisees are benefitted by such
opposition: they must certainly have been worth something to have been
hated in such an indecent manner. Hypocrisy--as if this were a charge
that the "early Christians" _dared_ to make!--After all, they were the
_privileged_, and that was enough: the hatred of the Chandala needed no
other excuse. The "early Christian"--and also, I fear, the "last
Christian," _whom I may perhaps live to see_--is a rebel against all
privilege by profound instinct--he lives and makes war for ever for
"equal rights."... Strictly speaking, he has no alternative. When a man
proposes to represent, in his own person, the "chosen of God"--or to be
a "temple of God," or a "judge of the angels"--then every _other_
criterion, whether based upon honesty, upon intellect, upon manliness
and pride, or upon beauty and freedom of the heart, becomes simply
"worldly"--_evil in itself_.... Moral: every word that comes from the
lips of an "early Christian" is a lie, and his every act is
instinctively dishonest--all his values, all his aims are noxious, but
_whoever_ he hates, _whatever_ he hates, has real _value_.... The
Christian, and particularly the Christian priest, is thus a _criterion
of values_.

--Must I add that, in the whole New Testament, there appears but a
_solitary_ figure worthy of honour? Pilate, the Roman viceroy. To regard
a Jewish imbroglio _seriously_--that was quite beyond him. One Jew more
or less--what did it matter?... The noble scorn of a Roman, before whom
the word "truth" was shamelessly mishandled, enriched the New Testament
with the only saying _that has any value_--and that is at once its
criticism and its _destruction_: "What is truth?..."


47.

--The thing that sets us apart is not that we are unable to find God,
either in history, or in nature, or behind nature--but that we regard
what has been honoured as God, not as "divine," but as pitiable, as
absurd, as injurious; not as a mere error, but as a _crime against
life_.... We deny that God is God.... If any one were to _show_ us this
Christian God, we'd be still less inclined to believe in him.--In a
formula: _deus, qualem Paulus creavit, dei negatio_.--Such a religion as
Christianity, which does not touch reality at a single point and which
goes to pieces the moment reality asserts its rights at any point, must
be inevitably the deadly enemy of the "wisdom of this world," which is
to say, of _science_--and it will give the name of good to whatever
means serve to poison, calumniate and _cry down_ all intellectual
discipline, all lucidity and strictness in matters of intellectual
conscience, and all noble coolness and freedom of the mind. "Faith," as
an imperative, vetoes science--_in praxi_, lying at any price.... Paul
_well knew_ that lying--that "faith"--was necessary; later on the church
borrowed the fact from Paul.--The God that Paul invented for himself, a
God who "reduced to absurdity" "the wisdom of this world" (especially
the two great enemies of superstition, philology and medicine), is in
truth only an indication of Paul's resolute _determination_ to
accomplish that very thing himself: to give one's own will the name of
God, _thora_--that is essentially Jewish. Paul _wants_ to dispose of the
"wisdom of this world": his enemies are the _good_ philologians and
physicians of the Alexandrine school--on them he makes his war. As a
matter of fact no man can be a _philologian_ or a physician without
being also _Antichrist_. That is to say, as a philologian a man sees
_behind_ the "holy books," and as a physician he sees _behind_ the
physiological degeneration of the typical Christian. The physician says
"incurable"; the philologian says "fraud."...


48.

--Has any one ever clearly understood the celebrated story at the
beginning of the Bible--of God's mortal terror of _science_?... No one,
in fact, has understood it. This priest-book _par excellence_ opens, as
is fitting, with the great inner difficulty of the priest: _he_ faces
only one great danger; _ergo_, "God" faces only one great danger.--

The old God, wholly "spirit," wholly the high-priest, wholly perfect, is
promenading his garden: he is bored and trying to kill time. Against
boredom even gods struggle in vain.[21] What does he do? He creates
man--man is entertaining.... But then he notices that man is also bored.
God's pity for the only form of distress that invades all paradises
knows no bounds: so he forthwith creates other animals. God's first
mistake: to man these other animals were not entertaining--he sought
dominion over them; he did not want to be an "animal" himself.--So God
created woman. In the act he brought boredom to an end--and also many
other things! Woman was the _second_ mistake of God.--"Woman, at bottom,
is a serpent, Heva"--every priest knows that; "from woman comes every
evil in the world"--every priest knows that, too. _Ergo_, she is also to
blame for _science_.... It was through woman that man learned to taste
of the tree of knowledge.--What happened? The old God was seized by
mortal terror. Man himself had been his _greatest_ blunder; he had
created a rival to himself; science makes men _godlike_--it is all up
with priests and gods when man becomes scientific!--_Moral_: science is
the forbidden _per se_; it alone is forbidden. Science is the _first_ of
sins, the germ of all sins, the _original_ sin. _This is all there is of
morality._--"Thou shall _not_ know":--the rest follows from that.--God's
mortal terror, however, did not hinder him from being shrewd. How is one
to _protect_ one's self against science? For a long while this was the
capital problem. Answer: Out of paradise with man! Happiness, leisure,
foster thought--and all thoughts are bad thoughts!--Man _must_ not
think.--And so the priest invents distress, death, the mortal dangers of
childbirth, all sorts of misery, old age, decrepitude, above all,
_sickness_--nothing but devices for making war on science! The troubles
of man don't _allow_ him to think.... Nevertheless--how terrible!--, the
edifice of knowledge begins to tower aloft, invading heaven, shadowing
the gods--what is to be done?--The old God invents _war_; he separates
the peoples; he makes men destroy one another (--the priests have always
had need of war....). War--among other things, a great disturber of
science!--Incredible! Knowledge, _deliverance from the priests_,
prospers in spite of war.--So the old God comes to his final resolution:
"Man has become scientific--_there is no help for it: he must be
drowned!_"...

[21] A paraphrase of Schiller's "Against stupidity even gods struggle in
vain."


49.

--I have been understood. At the opening of the Bible there is the
_whole_ psychology of the priest.--The priest knows of only one great
danger: that is science--the sound comprehension of cause and effect.
But science flourishes, on the whole, only under favourable
conditions--a man must have time, he must have an _overflowing_
intellect, in order to "know."... "_Therefore_, man must be made
unhappy,"--this has been, in all ages, the logic of the priest.--It is
easy to see just _what_, by this logic, was the first thing to come into
the world:--"_sin_."... The concept of guilt and punishment, the whole
"moral order of the world," was set up _against_ science--_against_ the
deliverance of man from priests.... Man must _not_ look outward; he must
look inward. He must _not_ look at things shrewdly and cautiously, to
learn about them; he must not look at all; he must _suffer_.... And he
must suffer so much that he is always in need of the priest.--Away with
physicians! _What is needed is a Saviour._--The concept of guilt and
punishment, including the doctrines of "grace," of "salvation," of
"forgiveness"--_lies_ through and through, and absolutely without
psychological reality--were devised to destroy man's _sense of
causality_: they are an attack upon the concept of cause and
effect!--And _not_ an attack with the fist, with the knife, with honesty
in hate and love! On the contrary, one inspired by the most cowardly,
the most crafty, the most ignoble of instincts! An attack of _priests_!
An attack of _parasites_! The vampirism of pale, subterranean
leeches!... When the natural consequences of an act are no longer
"natural," but are regarded as produced by the ghostly creations of
superstition--by "God," by "spirits," by "souls"--and reckoned as merely
"moral" consequences, as rewards, as punishments, as hints, as lessons,
then the whole ground-work of knowledge is destroyed--_then the greatest
of crimes against humanity has been perpetrated_.--I repeat that sin,
man's self-desecration _par excellence_, was invented in order to make
science, culture, and every elevation and ennobling of man impossible;
the priest _rules_ through the invention of sin.--


50.

--In this place I can't permit myself to omit a psychology of "belief,"
of the "believer," for the special benefit of "believers." If there
remain any today who do not yet know how _indecent_ it is to be
"believing"--_or_ how much a sign of _décadence_, of a broken will to
live--then they will know it well enough tomorrow. My voice reaches even
the deaf.--It appears, unless I have been incorrectly informed, that
there prevails among Christians a sort of criterion of truth that is
called "proof by power." "Faith makes blessed: _therefore_ it is
true."--It might be objected right here that blessedness is not
demonstrated, it is merely _promised_: it hangs upon "faith" as a
condition--one _shall_ be blessed _because_ one believes.... But what of
the thing that the priest promises to the believer, the wholly
transcendental "beyond"--how is _that_ to be demonstrated?--The "proof
by power," thus assumed, is actually no more at bottom than a belief
that the effects which faith promises will not fail to appear. In a
formula: "I believe that faith makes for blessedness--_therefore_, it is
true."... But this is as far as we may go. This "therefore" would be
_absurdum_ itself as a criterion of truth.--But let us admit, for the
sake of politeness, that blessedness by faith may be demonstrated
(--_not_ merely hoped for, and _not_ merely promised by the suspicious
lips of a priest): even so, _could_ blessedness--in a technical term,
_pleasure_--ever be a proof of truth? So little is this true that it is
almost a proof against truth when sensations of pleasure influence the
answer to the question "What is true?" or, at all events, it is enough
to make that "truth" highly suspicious. The proof by "pleasure" is a
proof _of_ "pleasure"--nothing more; why in the world should it be
assumed that _true_ judgments give more pleasure than false ones, and
that, in conformity to some pre-established harmony, they necessarily
bring agreeable feelings in their train?--The experience of all
disciplined and profound minds teaches _the contrary_. Man has had to
fight for every atom of the truth, and has had to pay for it almost
everything that the heart, that human love, that human trust cling to.
Greatness of soul is needed for this business: the service of truth is
the hardest of all services.--What, then, is the meaning of _integrity_
in things intellectual? It means that a man must be severe with his own
heart, that he must scorn "beautiful feelings," and that he makes every
Yea and Nay a matter of conscience!--Faith makes blessed: _therefore_,
it lies....


51.

The fact that faith, under certain circumstances, may work for
blessedness, but that this blessedness produced by an _idée fixe_ by no
means makes the idea itself true, and the fact that faith actually moves
no mountains, but instead _raises them up_ where there were none before:
all this is made sufficiently clear by a walk through a _lunatic
asylum_. _Not_, of course, to a priest: for his instincts prompt him to
the lie that sickness is not sickness and lunatic asylums not lunatic
asylums. Christianity finds sickness _necessary_, just as the Greek
spirit had need of a superabundance of health--the actual ulterior
purpose of the whole system of salvation of the church is to _make_
people ill. And the church itself--doesn't it set up a Catholic lunatic
asylum as the ultimate ideal?--The whole earth as a madhouse?--The sort
of religious man that the church _wants_ is a typical _décadent_; the
moment at which a religious crisis dominates a people is always marked
by epidemics of nervous disorder; the "inner world" of the religious man
is so much like the "inner world" of the overstrung and exhausted that
it is difficult to distinguish between them; the "highest" states of
mind, held up before mankind by Christianity as of supreme worth, are
actually epileptoid in form--the church has granted the name of holy
only to lunatics or to gigantic frauds _in majorem dei honorem_.... Once
I ventured to designate the whole Christian system of _training_[22] in
penance and salvation (now best studied in England) as a method of
producing a _folie circulaire_ upon a soil already prepared for it,
which is to say, a soil thoroughly unhealthy. Not every one may be a
Christian: one is not "converted" to Christianity--one must first
be sick enough for it.... We others, who have the _courage_ for health
_and_ likewise for contempt,--we may well despise a religion that
teaches misunderstanding of the body! that refuses to rid itself of the
superstition about the soul! that makes a "virtue" of insufficient
nourishment! that combats health as a sort of enemy, devil, temptation!
that persuades itself that it is possible to carry about a "perfect
soul" in a cadaver of a body, and that, to this end, had to devise for
itself a new concept of "perfection," a pale, sickly, idiotically
ecstatic state of existence, so-called "holiness"--a holiness that is
itself merely a series of symptoms of an impoverished, enervated and
incurably disordered body!... The Christian movement, as a European
movement, was from the start no more than a general uprising of all
sorts of outcast and refuse elements (--who now, under cover of
Christianity, aspire to power). It does _not_ represent the decay of a
race; it represents, on the contrary, a conglomeration of _décadence_
products from all directions, crowding together and seeking one another
out. It was _not_, as has been thought, the corruption of antiquity, of
_noble_ antiquity, which made Christianity possible; one cannot too
sharply challenge the learned imbecility which today maintains that
theory. At the time when the sick and rotten Chandala classes in the
whole _imperium_ were Christianized, the _contrary type_, the nobility,
reached its finest and ripest development. The majority became master;
democracy, with its Christian instincts, _triumphed_.... Christianity
was not "national," it was not based on race--it appealed to all the
varieties of men disinherited by life, it had its allies everywhere.
Christianity has the rancour of the sick at its very core--the instinct
against the _healthy_, against _health_. Everything that is
well-constituted, proud, gallant and, above all, beautiful gives offence
to its ears and eyes. Again I remind you of Paul's priceless saying:
"And God hath chosen the _weak_ things of the world, the _foolish_
things of the world, the _base_ things of the world, and things which
are _despised_":[23] _this_ was the formula; _in hoc signo_ the
_décadence_ triumphed.--_God on the cross_--is man always to miss the
frightful inner significance of this symbol?--Everything that suffers,
everything that hangs on the cross, is _divine_.... We all hang on the
cross, consequently _we_ are divine.... We alone are divine....
Christianity was thus a victory: a nobler attitude of mind was destroyed
by it--Christianity remains to this day the greatest misfortune of
humanity.--

[22] The word _training_ is in English in the text.

[23] 1 Corinthians i, 27, 28.


52.

Christianity also stands in opposition to all _intellectual_
well-being,--sick reasoning is the only sort that it _can_ use as
Christian reasoning; it takes the side of everything that is idiotic; it
pronounces a curse upon "intellect," upon the _superbia_ of the healthy
intellect. Since sickness is inherent in Christianity, it follows that
the typically Christian state of "faith" _must_ be a form of sickness
too, and that all straight, straightforward and scientific paths to
knowledge _must_ be banned by the church as _forbidden_ ways. Doubt is
thus a sin from the start.... The complete lack of psychological
cleanliness in the priest--revealed by a glance at him--is a phenomenon
_resulting_ from _décadence_,--one may observe in hysterical women and
in rachitic children how regularly the falsification of instincts,
delight in lying for the mere sake of lying, and incapacity for looking
straight and walking straight are symptoms of _décadence_. "Faith"
means the will to avoid knowing what is true. The pietist, the priest of
either sex, is a fraud _because_ he is sick: his instinct _demands_ that
the truth shall never be allowed its rights on any point. "Whatever
makes for illness is _good_; whatever issues from abundance, from
superabundance, from power, is _evil_": so argues the believer. The
_impulse to lie_--it is by this that I recognize every foreordained
theologian.--Another characteristic of the theologian is his _unfitness
for philology_. What I here mean by philology is, in a general sense,
the art of reading with profit--the capacity for absorbing facts
_without_ interpreting them falsely, and _without_ losing caution,
patience and subtlety in the effort to understand them. Philology as
_ephexis_[24] in interpretation: whether one be dealing with books, with
newspaper reports, with the most fateful events or with weather
statistics--not to mention the "salvation of the soul."... The way in
which a theologian, whether in Berlin or in Rome, is ready to explain,
say, a "passage of Scripture," or an experience, or a victory by the
national army, by turning upon it the high illumination of the Psalms of
David, is always so _daring_ that it is enough to make a philologian run
up a wall. But what shall he do when pietists and other such cows from
Suabia[25] use the "finger of God" to convert their miserably
commonplace and huggermugger existence into a miracle of "grace," a
"providence" and an "experience of salvation"? The most modest exercise
of the intellect, not to say of decency, should certainly be enough to
convince these interpreters of the perfect childishness and unworthiness
of such a misuse of the divine digital dexterity. However small our
piety, if we ever encountered a god who always cured us of a cold in the
head at just the right time, or got us into our carriage at the very
instant heavy rain began to fall, he would seem so absurd a god that
he'd have to be abolished even if he existed. God as a domestic servant,
as a letter carrier, as an almanac-man--at bottom, he is a mere name for
the stupidest sort of chance.... "Divine Providence," which every third
man in "educated Germany" still believes in, is so strong an argument
against God that it would be impossible to think of a stronger. And in
any case it is an argument against Germans!...

[24] That is, to say, scepticism. Among the Greeks scepticism was also
occasionally called ephecticism.

[25] A reference to the University of Tübingen and its famous school of
Biblical criticism. The leader of this school was F. C. Baur, and one of
the men greatly influenced by it was Nietzsche's pet abomination, David
F. Strauss, himself a Suabian. _Vide_ § 10 and § 28.


53.

--It is so little true that _martyrs_ offer any support to the truth of
a cause that I am inclined to deny that any martyr has ever had anything
to do with the truth at all. In the very tone in which a martyr flings
what he fancies to be true at the head of the world there appears so low
a grade of intellectual honesty and such _insensibility_ to the problem
of "truth," that it is never necessary to refute him. Truth is not
something that one man has and another man has not: at best, only
peasants, or peasant-apostles like Luther, can think of truth in any
such way. One may rest assured that the greater the degree of a man's
intellectual conscience the greater will be his modesty, his
_discretion_, on this point. To _know_ in five cases, and to refuse,
with delicacy, to know anything _further_.... "Truth," as the word is
understood by every prophet, every sectarian, every free-thinker, every
Socialist and every churchman, is simply a complete proof that not even
a beginning has been made in the intellectual discipline and
self-control that are necessary to the unearthing of even the smallest
truth.--The deaths of the martyrs, it may be said in passing, have been
misfortunes of history: they have _misled_.... The conclusion that all
idiots, women and plebeians come to, that there must be something in a
cause for which any one goes to his death (or which, as under primitive
Christianity, sets off epidemics of death-seeking)--this conclusion has
been an unspeakable drag upon the testing of facts, upon the whole
spirit of inquiry and investigation. The martyrs have _damaged_ the
truth.... Even to this day the crude fact of persecution is enough to
give an honourable name to the most empty sort of sectarianism.--But
why? Is the worth of a cause altered by the fact that some one had laid
down his life for it?--An error that becomes honourable is simply an
error that has acquired one seductive charm the more: do you suppose,
Messrs. Theologians, that we shall give you the chance to be martyred
for your lies?--One best disposes of a cause by respectfully putting it
on ice--that is also the best way to dispose of theologians.... This was
precisely the world-historical stupidity of all the persecutors: that
they gave the appearance of honour to the cause they opposed--that they
made it a present of the fascination of martyrdom.... Women are still on
their knees before an error because they have been told that some one
died on the cross for it. _Is the cross, then, an argument?_--But about
all these things there is one, and one only, who has said what has been
needed for thousands of years--_Zarathustra_.

     They made signs in blood along the way that they went, and their
     folly taught them that the truth is proved by blood.

     But blood is the worst of all testimonies to the truth; blood
     poisoneth even the purest teaching and turneth it into madness and
     hatred in the heart.

     And when one goeth through fire for his teaching--what doth that
     prove? Verily, it is more when one's teaching cometh out of one's
     own burning![26]

[26] The quotations are from "Also sprach Zarathustra" ii, 24: "Of
Priests."


54.

Do not let yourself be deceived: great intellects are sceptical.
Zarathustra is a sceptic. The strength, the _freedom_ which proceed from
intellectual power, from a superabundance of intellectual power,
_manifest_ themselves as scepticism. Men of fixed convictions do not
count when it comes to determining what is fundamental in values and
lack of values. Men of convictions are prisoners. They do not see far
enough, they do not see what is _below_ them: whereas a man who would
talk to any purpose about value and non-value must be able to see five
hundred convictions _beneath_ him--and _behind_ him.... A mind that
aspires to great things, and that wills the means thereto, is
necessarily sceptical. Freedom from any sort of conviction _belongs_ to
strength, and to an independent point of view.... That grand passion
which is at once the foundation and the power of a sceptic's existence,
and is both more enlightened and more despotic than he is himself,
drafts the whole of his intellect into its service; it makes him
unscrupulous; it gives him courage to employ unholy means; under certain
circumstances it does not _begrudge_ him even convictions. Conviction as
a means: one may achieve a good deal by means of a conviction. A grand
passion makes use of and uses up convictions; it does not yield to
them--it knows itself to be sovereign.--On the contrary, the need of
faith, of something unconditioned by yea or nay, of Carlylism, if I may
be allowed the word, is a need of _weakness_. The man of faith, the
"believer" of any sort, is necessarily a dependent man--such a man
cannot posit _himself_ as a goal, nor can he find goals within himself.
The "believer" does not belong to himself; he can only be a means to an
end; he must be _used up_; he needs some one to use him up. His instinct
gives the highest honours to an ethic of self-effacement; he is prompted
to embrace it by everything: his prudence, his experience, his vanity.
Every sort of faith is in itself an evidence of self-effacement, of
self-estrangement.... When one reflects how necessary it is to the great
majority that there be regulations to restrain them from without and
hold them fast, and to what extent control, or, in a higher sense,
_slavery_, is the one and only condition which makes for the well-being
of the weak-willed man, and especially woman, then one at once
understands conviction and "faith." To the man with convictions they are
his backbone. To _avoid_ seeing many things, to be impartial about
nothing, to be a party man through and through, to estimate all values
strictly and infallibly--these are conditions necessary to the existence
of such a man. But by the same token they are _antagonists_ of the
truthful man--of the truth.... The believer is not free to answer the
question, "true" or "not true," according to the dictates of his own
conscience: integrity on _this_ point would work his instant downfall.
The pathological limitations of his vision turn the man of convictions
into a fanatic--Savonarola, Luther, Rousseau, Robespierre,
Saint-Simon--these types stand in opposition to the strong,
_emancipated_ spirit. But the grandiose attitudes of these _sick_
intellects, these intellectual epileptics, are of influence upon the
great masses--fanatics are picturesque, and mankind prefers observing
poses to listening to _reasons_....


55.

--One step further in the psychology of conviction, of "faith." It is
now a good while since I first proposed for consideration the question
whether convictions are not even more dangerous enemies to truth than
lies. ("Human, All-Too-Human," I, aphorism 483.)[27] This time I desire
to put the question definitely: is there any actual difference between
a lie and a conviction?--All the world believes that there is; but what
is not believed by all the world!--Every conviction has its history, its
primitive forms, its stage of tentativeness and error: it _becomes_ a
conviction only after having been, for a long time, _not_ one, and then,
for an even longer time, _hardly_ one. What if falsehood be also one of
these embryonic forms of conviction?--Sometimes all that is needed is a
change in persons: what was a lie in the father becomes a conviction in
the son.--I call it lying to refuse to see what one sees, or to refuse
to see it _as_ it is: whether the lie be uttered before witnesses or not
before witnesses is of no consequence. The most common sort of lie is
that by which a man deceives himself: the deception of others is a
relatively rare offence.--Now, this will _not_ to see what one sees,
this will _not_ to see it as it is, is almost the first requisite for
all who belong to a party of whatever sort: the party man becomes
inevitably a liar. For example, the German historians are convinced that
Rome was synonymous with despotism and that the Germanic peoples brought
the spirit of liberty into the world: what is the difference between
this conviction and a lie? Is it to be wondered at that all partisans,
including the German historians, instinctively roll the fine phrases of
morality upon their tongues--that morality almost owes its very
_survival_ to the fact that the party man of every sort has need of it
every moment?--"This is _our_ conviction: we publish it to the whole
world; we live and die for it--let us respect all who have
convictions!"--I have actually heard such sentiments from the mouths of
anti-Semites. On the contrary, gentlemen! An anti-Semite surely does not
become more respectable because he lies on principle.... The priests,
who have more finesse in such matters, and who well understand the
objection that lies against the notion of a conviction, which is to say,
of a falsehood that becomes a matter of principle _because_ it serves a
purpose, have borrowed from the Jews the shrewd device of sneaking in
the concepts, "God," "the will of God" and "the revelation of God" at
this place. Kant, too, with his categorical imperative, was on the same
road: this was his _practical_ reason.[28] There are questions regarding
the truth or untruth of which it is _not_ for man to decide; all the
capital questions, all the capital problems of valuation, are beyond
human reason.... To know the limits of reason--_that_ alone is genuine
philosophy.... Why did God make a revelation to man? Would God have done
anything superfluous? Man _could_ not find out for himself what was good
and what was evil, so God taught him His will.... Moral: the priest does
_not_ lie--the question, "true" or "untrue," has nothing to do with such
things as the priest discusses; it is impossible to lie about these
things. In order to lie here it would be necessary to know _what_ is
true. But this is more than man _can_ know; therefore, the priest is
simply the mouthpiece of God.--Such a priestly syllogism
is by no means merely Jewish and Christian; the right to lie and the
_shrewd dodge_ of "revelation" belong to the general priestly type--to
the priest of the _décadence_ as well as to the priest of pagan times
(--Pagans are all those who say yes to life, and to whom "God" is a word
signifying acquiescence in all things).--The "law," the "will of God,"
the "holy book," and "inspiration"--all these things are merely words
for the conditions _under_ which the priest comes to power and _with_
which he maintains his power,--these concepts are to be found at the
bottom of all priestly organizations, and of all priestly or
priestly-philosophical schemes of governments. The "holy lie"--common
alike to Confucius, to the Code of Manu, to Mohammed and to the
Christian church--is not even wanting in Plato. "Truth is here": this
means, no matter where it is heard, _the priest lies_....

[27] The aphorism, which is headed "The Enemies of Truth," makes the
direct statement: "Convictions are more dangerous enemies of truth than
lies."

[28] A reference, of course, to Kant's "Kritik der praktischen Vernunft"
(Critique of Practical Reason).


56.

--In the last analysis it comes to this: what is the _end_ of lying? The
fact that, in Christianity, "holy" ends are not visible is _my_
objection to the means it employs. Only _bad_ ends appear: the
poisoning, the calumniation, the denial of life, the despising of the
body, the degradation and self-contamination of man by the concept of
sin--_therefore_, its means are also bad.--I have a contrary feeling
when I read the Code of Manu, an incomparably more intellectual and
superior work, which it would be a sin against the _intelligence_ to so
much as _name_ in the same breath with the Bible. It is easy to see why:
there is a genuine philosophy behind it, _in_ it, not merely an
evil-smelling mess of Jewish rabbinism and superstition,--it gives even
the most fastidious psychologist something to sink his teeth into. And,
_not_ to forget what is most important, it differs fundamentally from
every kind of Bible: by means of it the _nobles_, the philosophers and
the warriors keep the whip-hand over the majority; it is full of noble
valuations, it shows a feeling of perfection, an acceptance of life, and
triumphant feeling toward self and life--the _sun_ shines upon the whole
book.--All the things on which Christianity vents its fathomless
vulgarity--for example, procreation, women and marriage--are here
handled earnestly, with reverence and with love and confidence. How can
any one really put into the hands of children and ladies a book which
contains such vile things as this: "to avoid fornication, let every man
have his own wife, and let every woman have her own husband; ... it is
better to marry than to burn"?[29] And is it _possible_ to be a
Christian so long as the origin of man is Christianized, which is to
say, _befouled_, by the doctrine of the _immaculata conceptio_?... I
know of no book in which so many delicate and kindly things are said of
women as in the Code of Manu; these old grey-beards and saints have a
way of being gallant to women that it would be impossible, perhaps, to
surpass. "The mouth of a woman," it says in one place, "the breasts of a
maiden, the prayer of a child and the smoke of sacrifice are always
pure." In another place: "there is nothing purer than the light of the
sun, the shadow cast by a cow, air, water, fire and the breath of a
maiden." Finally, in still another place--perhaps this is also a holy
lie--: "all the orifices of the body above the navel are pure, and all
below are impure. Only in the maiden is the whole body pure."

[29] 1 Corinthians vii, 2, 9.


57.

One catches the _unholiness_ of Christian means _in flagranti_ by the
simple process of putting the ends sought by Christianity beside the
ends sought by the Code of Manu--by putting these enormously
antithetical ends under a strong light. The critic of Christianity
cannot evade the necessity of making Christianity _contemptible_.--A
book of laws such as the Code of Manu has the same origin as every other
good law-book: it epitomizes the experience, the sagacity and the
ethical experimentation of long centuries; it brings things to a
conclusion; it no longer creates. The prerequisite to a codification of
this sort is recognition of the fact that the means which establish the
authority of a slowly and painfully attained _truth_ are fundamentally
different from those which one would make use of to prove it. A law-book
never recites the utility, the grounds, the casuistical antecedents of a
law: for if it did so it would lose the imperative tone, the "thou
shall," on which obedience is based. The problem lies exactly here.--At
a certain point in the evolution of a people, the class within it of the
greatest insight, which is to say, the greatest hindsight and foresight,
declares that the series of experiences determining how all shall
live--or _can_ live--has come to an end. The object now is to reap as
rich and as complete a harvest as possible from the days of experiment
and _hard_ experience. In consequence, the thing that is to be avoided
above everything is further experimentation--the continuation of the
state in which values are fluent, and are tested, chosen and criticized
_ad infinitum_. Against this a double wall is set up: on the one hand,
_revelation_, which is the assumption that the reasons lying behind the
laws are _not_ of human origin, that they were _not_ sought out and
found by a slow process and after many errors, but that they are of
divine ancestry, and came into being complete, perfect, without a
history, as a free gift, a miracle...; and on the other hand,
_tradition_, which is the assumption that the law has stood unchanged
from time immemorial, and that it is impious and a crime against one's
forefathers to bring it into question. The authority of the law is thus
grounded on the thesis: God gave it, and the fathers _lived_ it.--The
higher motive of such procedure lies in the design to distract
consciousness, step by step, from its concern with notions of right
living (that is to say, those that have been _proved_ to be right by
wide and carefully considered experience), so that instinct attains to a
perfect automatism--a primary necessity to every sort of mastery, to
every sort of perfection in the art of life. To draw up such a law-book
as Manu's means to lay before a people the possibility of future
mastery, of attainable perfection--it permits them to aspire to the
highest reaches of the art of life. _To that end the thing must be made
unconscious_: that is the aim of every holy lie.--The _order of castes_,
the highest, the dominating law, is merely the ratification of an _order
of nature_, of a natural law of the first rank, over which no arbitrary
fiat, no "modern idea," can exert any influence. In every healthy
society there are three physiological types, gravitating toward
differentiation but mutually conditioning one another, and each of these
has its own hygiene, its own sphere of work, its own special mastery and
feeling of perfection. It is _not_ Manu but nature that sets off in one
class those who are chiefly intellectual, in another those who are
marked by muscular strength and temperament, and in a third those who
are distinguished in neither one way or the other, but show only
mediocrity--the last-named represents the great majority, and the first
two the select. The superior caste--I call it the _fewest_--has, as the
most perfect, the privileges of the few: it stands for happiness, for
beauty, for everything good upon earth. Only the most intellectual of
men have any right to beauty, to the beautiful; only in them can
goodness escape being weakness. _Pulchrum est paucorum hominum_:[30]
goodness is a privilege. Nothing could be more unbecoming to them than
uncouth manners or a pessimistic look, or an eye that sees
_ugliness_--or indignation against the general aspect of things.
Indignation is the privilege of the Chandala; so is pessimism. "_The
world is perfect_"--so prompts the instinct of the intellectual, the
instinct of the man who says yes to life. "Imperfection, whatever is
_inferior_ to us, distance, the pathos of distance, even the Chandala
themselves are parts of this perfection." The most intelligent men, like
the _strongest_, find their happiness where others would find only
disaster: in the labyrinth, in being hard with themselves and with
others, in effort; their delight is in self-mastery; in them asceticism
becomes second nature, a necessity, an instinct. They regard a difficult
task as a privilege; it is to them a _recreation_ to play with burdens
that would crush all others.... Knowledge--a form of asceticism.--They
are the most honourable kind of men: but that does not prevent them
being the most cheerful and most amiable. They rule, not because they
want to, but because they _are_; they are not at liberty to play
second.--The _second caste_: to this belong the guardians of the law,
the keepers of order and security, the more noble warriors, above all,
the king as the highest form of warrior, judge and preserver of the law.
The second in rank constitute the executive arm of the intellectuals,
the next to them in rank, taking from them all that is _rough_ in the
business of ruling--their followers, their right hand, their most apt
disciples.--In all this, I repeat, there is nothing arbitrary, nothing
"made up"; whatever is to the _contrary_ is made up--by it nature is
brought to shame.... The order of castes, the _order of rank_, simply
formulates the supreme law of life itself; the separation of the three
types is necessary to the maintenance of society, and to the evolution
of higher types, and the highest types--the _inequality_ of rights is
essential to the existence of any rights at all.--A right is a
privilege. Every one enjoys the privileges that accord with his state of
existence. Let us not underestimate the privileges of the _mediocre_.
Life is always harder as one mounts the _heights_--the cold increases,
responsibility increases. A high civilization is a pyramid: it can stand
only on a broad base; its primary prerequisite is a strong and soundly
consolidated mediocrity. The handicrafts, commerce, agriculture,
_science_, the greater part of art, in brief, the whole range of
_occupational_ activities, are compatible only with mediocre ability and
aspiration; such callings would be out of place for exceptional men; the
instincts which belong to them stand as much opposed to aristocracy as
to anarchism. The fact that a man is publicly useful, that he is a
wheel, a function, is evidence of a natural predisposition; it is not
_society_, but the only sort of happiness that the majority are capable
of, that makes them intelligent machines. To the mediocre mediocrity is
a form of happiness; they have a natural instinct for mastering one
thing, for specialization. It would be altogether unworthy of a profound
intellect to see anything objectionable in mediocrity in itself. It is,
in fact, the _first_ prerequisite to the appearance of the exceptional:
it is a necessary condition to a high degree of civilization. When the
exceptional man handles the mediocre man with more delicate fingers than
he applies to himself or to his equals, this is not merely kindness of
heart--it is simply his _duty_.... Whom do I hate most heartily among
the rabbles of today? The rabble of Socialists, the apostles to the
Chandala, who undermine the workingman's instincts, his pleasure, his
feeling of contentment with his petty existence--who make him envious
and teach him revenge.... Wrong never lies in unequal rights; it lies in
the assertion of "equal" rights.... What is _bad_? But I have already
answered: all that proceeds from weakness, from envy, from
_revenge_.--The anarchist and the Christian have the same ancestry....

[30] Few men are noble.


58.

In point of fact, the end for which one lies makes a great difference:
whether one preserves thereby or destroys. There is a perfect likeness
between Christian and anarchist: their object, their instinct, points
only toward destruction. One need only turn to history for a proof of
this: there it appears with appalling distinctness. We have just studied
a code of religious legislation whose object it was to convert the
conditions which cause life to _flourish_ into an "eternal" social
organization,--Christianity found its mission in putting an end to such
an organization, _because life flourished under it_. There the benefits
that reason had produced during long ages of experiment and insecurity
were applied to the most remote uses, and an effort was made to bring in
a harvest that should be as large, as rich and as complete as possible;
here, on the contrary, the harvest is _blighted_ overnight.... That
which stood there _aere perennis_, the _imperium Romanum_, the most
magnificent form of organization under difficult conditions that has
ever been achieved, and compared to which everything before it and after
it appears as patchwork, bungling, _dilletantism_--those holy anarchists
made it a matter of "piety" to destroy "the world," _which is to say_,
the _imperium Romanum_, so that in the end not a stone stood upon
another--and even Germans and other such louts were able to become its
masters.... The Christian and the anarchist: both are _décadents_; both
are incapable of any act that is not disintegrating, poisonous,
degenerating, _blood-sucking_; both have an instinct of _mortal hatred_
of everything that stands up, and is great, and has durability, and
promises life a future.... Christianity was the vampire of the _imperium
Romanum_,--overnight it destroyed the vast achievement of the Romans:
the conquest of the soil for a great culture _that could await its
time_. Can it be that this fact is not yet understood? The _imperium
Romanum_ that we know, and that the history of the Roman provinces
teaches us to know better and better,--this most admirable of all works
of art in the grand manner was merely the beginning, and the structure
to follow was not to _prove_ its worth for thousands of years. To this
day, nothing on a like scale _sub specie aeterni_ has been brought into
being, or even dreamed of!--This organization was strong enough to
withstand bad emperors: the accident of personality has nothing to do
with such things--the _first_ principle of all genuinely great
architecture. But it was not strong enough to stand up against the
_corruptest_ of all forms of corruption--against Christians.... These
stealthy worms, which under the cover of night, mist and duplicity,
crept upon every individual, sucking him dry of all earnest interest in
_real_ things, of all instinct for _reality_--this cowardly, effeminate
and sugar-coated gang gradually alienated all "souls," step by step,
from that colossal edifice, turning against it all the meritorious,
manly and noble natures that had found in the cause of Rome their own
cause, their own serious purpose, their own _pride_. The sneakishness of
hypocrisy, the secrecy of the conventicle, concepts as black as hell,
such as the sacrifice of the innocent, the _unio mystica_ in the
drinking of blood, above all, the slowly rekindled fire of revenge, of
Chandala revenge--all _that_ sort of thing became master of Rome: the
same kind of religion which, in a pre-existent form, Epicurus had
combatted. One has but to read Lucretius to know _what_ Epicurus made
war upon--_not_ paganism, but "Christianity," which is to say, the
corruption of souls by means of the concepts of guilt, punishment and
immortality.--He combatted the _subterranean_ cults, the whole of latent
Christianity--to deny immortality was already a form of genuine
_salvation_.--Epicurus had triumphed, and every respectable intellect in
Rome was Epicurean--_when Paul appeared_ ... Paul, the Chandala hatred
of Rome, of "the world," in the flesh and inspired by genius--the Jew,
the _eternal_ Jew _par excellence_.... What he saw was how, with the aid
of the small sectarian Christian movement that stood apart from Judaism,
a "world conflagration" might be kindled; how, with the symbol of "God
on the cross," all secret seditions, all the fruits of anarchistic
intrigues in the empire, might be amalgamated into one immense power.
"Salvation is of the Jews."--Christianity is the formula for exceeding
_and_ summing up the subterranean cults of all varieties, that of
Osiris, that of the Great Mother, that of Mithras, for instance: in his
discernment of this fact the genius of Paul showed itself. His instinct
was here so sure that, with reckless violence to the truth, he put the
ideas which lent fascination to every sort of Chandala religion into the
mouth of the "Saviour" as his own inventions, and not only into the
mouth--he _made_ out of him something that even a priest of Mithras
could understand.... This was his revelation at Damascus: he grasped the
fact that he _needed_ the belief in immortality in order to rob "the
world" of its value, that the concept of "hell" would master Rome--that
the notion of a "beyond" is the _death of life_.... Nihilist and
Christian: they rhyme in German, and they do more than rhyme....


59.

The whole labour of the ancient world gone for _naught_: I have no word
to describe the feelings that such an enormity arouses in me.--And,
considering the fact that its labour was merely preparatory, that with
adamantine self-consciousness it laid only the foundations for a work to
go on for thousands of years, the whole _meaning_ of antiquity
disappears!... To what end the Greeks? to what end the Romans?--All the
prerequisites to a learned culture, all the _methods_ of science, were
already there; man had already perfected the great and incomparable art
of reading profitably--that first necessity to the tradition of
culture, the unity of the sciences; the natural sciences, in alliance
with mathematics and mechanics, were on the right road,--_the sense of
fact_, the last and more valuable of all the senses, had its schools,
and its traditions were already centuries old! Is all this properly
understood? Every _essential_ to the beginning of the work was
ready:--and the _most_ essential, it cannot be said too often, are
methods, and also the most difficult to develop, and the longest opposed
by habit and laziness. What we have today reconquered, with unspeakable
self-discipline, for ourselves--for certain bad instincts, certain
Christian instincts, still lurk in our bodies--that is to say, the keen
eye for reality, the cautious hand, patience and seriousness in the
smallest things, the whole _integrity_ of knowledge--all these things
were already there, and had been there for two thousand years! _More_,
there was also a refined and excellent tact and taste! _Not_ as mere
brain-drilling! _Not_ as "German" culture, with its loutish manners! But
as body, as bearing, as instinct--in short, as reality.... _All gone for
naught!_ Overnight it became merely a memory!--The Greeks! The Romans!
Instinctive nobility, taste, methodical inquiry, genius for organization
and administration, faith in and the _will_ to secure the future of man,
a great yes to everything entering into the _imperium Romanum_ and
palpable to all the senses, a grand style that was beyond mere art, but
had become reality, truth, _life_....--All overwhelmed in a night, but
not by a convulsion of nature! Not trampled to death by Teutons and
others of heavy hoof! But brought to shame by crafty, sneaking,
invisible, anæmic vampires! Not conquered,--only sucked dry!... Hidden
vengefulness, petty envy, became _master_! Everything wretched,
intrinsically ailing, and invaded by bad feelings, the whole
_ghetto-world_ of the soul, was at once _on top_!--One needs but read
any of the Christian agitators, for example, St. Augustine, in order to
realize, in order to smell, what filthy fellows came to the top. It
would be an error, however, to assume that there was any lack of
understanding in the leaders of the Christian movement:--ah, but they
were clever, clever to the point of holiness, these fathers of the
church! What they lacked was something quite different. Nature
neglected--perhaps forgot--to give them even the most modest endowment
of respectable, of upright, of _cleanly_ instincts.... Between
ourselves, they are not even men.... If Islam despises Christianity, it
has a thousandfold right to do so: Islam at least assumes that it is
dealing with _men_....


60.

Christianity destroyed for us the whole harvest of ancient civilization,
and later it also destroyed for us the whole harvest of _Mohammedan_
civilization. The wonderful culture of the Moors in Spain, which was
fundamentally nearer to _us_ and appealed more to our senses and tastes
than that of Rome and Greece, was _trampled down_ (--I do not say by
what sort of feet--) Why? Because it had to thank noble and manly
instincts for its origin--because it said yes to life, even to the rare
and refined luxuriousness of Moorish life!... The crusaders later made
war on something before which it would have been more fitting for them
to have grovelled in the dust--a civilization beside which even that of
our nineteenth century seems very poor and very "senile."--What they
wanted, of course, was booty: the orient was rich.... Let us put aside
our prejudices! The crusades were a higher form of piracy, nothing more!
The German nobility, which is fundamentally a Viking nobility, was in
its element there: the church knew only too well how the German nobility
was to be _won_.... The German noble, always the "Swiss guard" of the
church, always in the service of every bad instinct of the church--_but
well paid_.... Consider the fact that it is precisely the aid of German
swords and German blood and valour that has enabled the church to carry
through its war to the death upon everything noble on earth! At this
point a host of painful questions suggest themselves. The German
nobility stands _outside_ the history of the higher civilization: the
reason is obvious.... Christianity, alcohol--the two _great_ means of
corruption.... Intrinsically there should be no more choice between
Islam and Christianity than there is between an Arab and a Jew. The
decision is already reached; nobody remains at liberty to choose here.
Either a man is a Chandala or he is not.... "War to the knife with Rome!
Peace and friendship with Islam!": this was the feeling, this was the
_act_, of that great free spirit, that genius among German emperors,
Frederick II. What! must a German first be a genius, a free spirit,
before he can feel _decently_? I can't make out how a German could ever
feel _Christian_....


61.

Here it becomes necessary to call up a memory that must be a hundred
times more painful to Germans. The Germans have destroyed for Europe the
last great harvest of civilization that Europe was ever to reap--the
_Renaissance_. Is it understood at last, _will_ it ever be understood,
_what_ the Renaissance was? _The transvaluation of Christian
values_,--an attempt with all available means, all instincts and all the
resources of genius to bring about a triumph of the _opposite_ values,
the more _noble_ values.... This has been the one great war of the past;
there has never been a more critical question than that of the
Renaissance--it is _my_ question too--; there has never been a form of
_attack_ more fundamental, more direct, or more violently delivered by a
whole front upon the center of the enemy! To attack at the critical
place, at the very seat of Christianity, and there enthrone the more
noble values--that is to say, to _insinuate_ them into the instincts,
into the most fundamental needs and appetites of those sitting there ...
I see before me the _possibility_ of a perfectly heavenly enchantment
and spectacle:--it seems to me to scintillate with all the vibrations of
a fine and delicate beauty, and within it there is an art so divine, so
infernally divine, that one might search in vain for thousands of years
for another such possibility; I see a spectacle so rich in significance
and at the same time so wonderfully full of paradox that it should
arouse all the gods on Olympus to immortal laughter--_Cæsar Borgia as
pope!_... Am I understood?... Well then, _that_ would have been the
sort of triumph that _I_ alone am longing for today--: by it
Christianity would have been _swept away_!--What happened? A German
monk, Luther, came to Rome. This monk, with all the vengeful instincts
of an unsuccessful priest in him, raised a rebellion _against_ the
Renaissance in Rome.... Instead of grasping, with profound thanksgiving,
the miracle that had taken place: the conquest of Christianity at its
_capital_--instead of this, his hatred was stimulated by the spectacle.
A religious man thinks only of himself.--Luther saw only the _depravity_
of the papacy at the very moment when the opposite was becoming
apparent: the old corruption, the _peccatum originale_, Christianity
itself, no longer occupied the papal chair! Instead there was life!
Instead there was the triumph of life! Instead there was a great yea to
all lofty, beautiful and daring things!... And Luther _restored the
church_: he attacked it.... The Renaissance--an event without meaning, a
great futility!--Ah, these Germans, what they have not cost us!
_Futility_--that has always been the work of the Germans.--The
Reformation; Leibnitz; Kant and so-called German philosophy; the war
of "liberation"; the empire--every time a futile substitute for
something that once existed, for something _irrecoverable_.... These
Germans, I confess, are my enemies: I despise all their uncleanliness
in concept and valuation, their cowardice before every honest yea
and nay. For nearly a thousand years they have tangled and confused
everything their fingers have touched; they have on their conscience
all the half-way measures, all the three-eighths-way measures, that
Europe is sick of,--they also have on their conscience the uncleanest
variety of Christianity that exists, and the most incurable and
indestructible--Protestantism.... If mankind never manages to get rid
of Christianity the _Germans_ will be to blame....


62.

--With this I come to a conclusion and pronounce my judgment. I
_condemn_ Christianity; I bring against the Christian church the most
terrible of all the accusations that an accuser has ever had in his
mouth. It is, to me, the greatest of all imaginable corruptions; it
seeks to work the ultimate corruption, the worst possible corruption.
The Christian church has left nothing untouched by its depravity; it has
turned every value into worthlessness, and every truth into a lie, and
every integrity into baseness of soul. Let any one dare to speak to me
of its "humanitarian" blessings! Its deepest necessities range it
against any effort to abolish distress; it lives by distress; it
_creates_ distress to make _itself_ immortal.... For example, the worm
of sin: it was the church that first enriched mankind with this
misery!--The "equality of souls before God"--this fraud, this _pretext_
for the _rancunes_ of all the base-minded--this explosive concept,
ending in revolution, the modern idea, and the notion of overthrowing
the whole social order--this is _Christian_ dynamite.... The
"humanitarian" blessings of Christianity forsooth! To breed out of
_humanitas_ a self-contradiction, an art of self-pollution, a will to
lie at any price, an aversion and contempt for all good and honest
instincts! All this, to me, is the "humanitarianism" of
Christianity!--Parasitism as the _only_ practice of the church; with its
anæmic and "holy" ideals, sucking all the blood, all the love, all the
hope out of life; the beyond as the will to deny all reality; the cross
as the distinguishing mark of the most subterranean conspiracy ever
heard of,--against health, beauty, well-being, intellect, _kindness_ of
soul--_against life itself_....

This eternal accusation against Christianity I shall write upon all
walls, wherever walls are to be found--I have letters that even the
blind will be able to see.... I call Christianity the one great curse,
the one great intrinsic depravity, the one great instinct of revenge,
for which no means are venomous enough, or secret, subterranean and
_small_ enough,--I call it the one immortal blemish upon the human
race....

And mankind reckons _time_ from the _dies nefastus_ when this fatality
befell--from the _first_ day of Christianity!--_Why not rather from its
last?_--_From today?_--The transvaluation of all values!...

