
BOOK I

MAY 4.

How happy I am that I am gone! My dear friend, what a thing is the heart
of man! To leave you, from whom I have been inseparable, whom I love
so dearly, and yet to feel happy! I know you will forgive me. Have not
other attachments been specially appointed by fate to torment a head
like mine? Poor Leonora! and yet I was not to blame. Was it my fault,
that, whilst the peculiar charms of her sister afforded me an agreeable
entertainment, a passion for me was engendered in her feeble heart? And
yet am I wholly blameless? Did I not encourage her emotions? Did I not
feel charmed at those truly genuine expressions of nature, which, though
but little mirthful in reality, so often amused us? Did I not--but
oh! what is man, that he dares so to accuse himself? My dear friend I
promise you I will improve; I will no longer, as has ever been my habit,
continue to ruminate on every petty vexation which fortune may dispense;
I will enjoy the present, and the past shall be for me the past.
No doubt you are right, my best of friends, there would be far less
suffering amongst mankind, if men--and God knows why they are so
fashioned--did not employ their imaginations so assiduously in recalling
the memory of past sorrow, instead of bearing their present lot with
equanimity. Be kind enough to inform my mother that I shall attend to
her business to the best of my ability, and shall give her the earliest
information about it. I have seen my aunt, and find that she is very far
from being the disagreeable person our friends allege her to be. She is
a lively, cheerful woman, with the best of hearts. I explained to her my
mother's wrongs with regard to that part of her portion which has
been withheld from her. She told me the motives and reasons of her own
conduct, and the terms on which she is willing to give up the whole,
and to do more than we have asked. In short, I cannot write further upon
this subject at present; only assure my mother that all will go on well.
And I have again observed, my dear friend, in this trifling affair, that
misunderstandings and neglect occasion more mischief in the world than
even malice and wickedness. At all events, the two latter are of less
frequent occurrence.

In other respects I am very well off here. Solitude in this terrestrial
paradise is a genial balm to my mind, and the young spring cheers with
its bounteous promises my oftentimes misgiving heart. Every tree, every
bush, is full of flowers; and one might wish himself transformed into a
butterfly, to float about in this ocean of perfume, and find his whole
existence in it.

The town itself is disagreeable; but then, all around, you find an
inexpressible beauty of nature. This induced the late Count M to lay
out a garden on one of the sloping hills which here intersect each other
with the most charming variety, and form the most lovely valleys. The
garden is simple; and it is easy to perceive, even upon your first
entrance, that the plan was not designed by a scientific gardener, but
by a man who wished to give himself up here to the enjoyment of his own
sensitive heart. Many a tear have I already shed to the memory of its
departed master in a summer-house which is now reduced to ruins, but
was his favourite resort, and now is mine. I shall soon be master of the
place. The gardener has become attached to me within the last few days,
and he will lose nothing thereby.

MAY 10.

A wonderful serenity has taken possession of my entire soul, like these
sweet mornings of spring which I enjoy with my whole heart. I am alone,
and feel the charm of existence in this spot, which was created for the
bliss of souls like mine. I am so happy, my dear friend, so absorbed
in the exquisite sense of mere tranquil existence, that I neglect my
talents. I should be incapable of drawing a single stroke at the present
moment; and yet I feel that I never was a greater artist than now. When,
while the lovely valley teems with vapour around me, and the meridian
sun strikes the upper surface of the impenetrable foliage of my trees,
and but a few stray gleams steal into the inner sanctuary, I throw
myself down among the tall grass by the trickling stream; and, as I lie
close to the earth, a thousand unknown plants are noticed by me: when
I hear the buzz of the little world among the stalks, and grow familiar
with the countless indescribable forms of the insects and flies, then I
feel the presence of the Almighty, who formed us in his own image, and
the breath of that universal love which bears and sustains us, as it
floats around us in an eternity of bliss; and then, my friend, when
darkness overspreads my eyes, and heaven and earth seem to dwell in my
soul and absorb its power, like the form of a beloved mistress, then I
often think with longing, Oh, would I could describe these conceptions,
could impress upon paper all that is living so full and warm within me,
that it might be the mirror of my soul, as my soul is the mirror of the
infinite God! O my friend--but it is too much for my strength--I sink
under the weight of the splendour of these visions!

MAY 12.

I know not whether some deceitful spirits haunt this spot, or whether
it be the warm, celestial fancy in my own heart which makes everything
around me seem like paradise. In front of the house is a fountain,--a
fountain to which I am bound by a charm like Melusina and her sisters.
Descending a gentle slope, you come to an arch, where, some twenty steps
lower down, water of the clearest crystal gushes from the marble rock.
The narrow wall which encloses it above, the tall trees which encircle
the spot, and the coolness of the place itself,--everything imparts
a pleasant but sublime impression. Not a day passes on which I do not
spend an hour there. The young maidens come from the town to fetch
water,--innocent and necessary employment, and formerly the occupation
of the daughters of kings. As I take my rest there, the idea of the old
patriarchal life is awakened around me. I see them, our old ancestors,
how they formed their friendships and contracted alliances at the
fountain-side; and I feel how fountains and streams were guarded by
beneficent spirits. He who is a stranger to these sensations has never
really enjoyed cool repose at the side of a fountain after the fatigue
of a weary summer day.

MAY 13.

You ask if you shall send me books. My dear friend, I beseech you,
for the love of God, relieve me from such a yoke! I need no more to be
guided, agitated, heated. My heart ferments sufficiently of itself.
I want strains to lull me, and I find them to perfection in my Homer.
Often do I strive to allay the burning fever of my blood; and you have
never witnessed anything so unsteady, so uncertain, as my heart. But
need I confess this to you, my dear friend, who have so often endured
the anguish of witnessing my sudden transitions from sorrow to
immoderate joy, and from sweet melancholy to violent passions? I treat
my poor heart like a sick child, and gratify its every fancy. Do not
mention this again: there are people who would censure me for it.

MAY 15.

The common people of the place know me already, and love me,
particularly the children. When at first I associated with them, and
inquired in a friendly tone about their various trifles, some fancied
that I wished to ridicule them, and turned from me in exceeding
ill-humour. I did not allow that circumstance to grieve me: I only felt
most keenly what I have often before observed. Persons who can claim
a certain rank keep themselves coldly aloof from the common people,
as though they feared to lose their importance by the contact; whilst
wanton idlers, and such as are prone to bad joking, affect to descend
to their level, only to make the poor people feel their impertinence all
the more keenly.

I know very well that we are not all equal, nor can be so; but it is my
opinion that he who avoids the common people, in order not to lose their
respect, is as much to blame as a coward who hides himself from his
enemy because he fears defeat.

The other day I went to the fountain, and found a young servant-girl,
who had set her pitcher on the lowest step, and looked around to see
if one of her companions was approaching to place it on her head. I ran
down, and looked at her. "Shall I help you, pretty lass?" said I. She
blushed deeply. "Oh, sir!" she exclaimed. "No ceremony!" I replied. She
adjusted her head-gear, and I helped her. She thanked me, and ascended
the steps.

MAY 17.

I have made all sorts of acquaintances, but have as yet found no
society. I know not what attraction I possess for the people, so many
of them like me, and attach themselves to me; and then I feel sorry when
the road we pursue together goes only a short distance. If you inquire
what the people are like here, I must answer, "The same as everywhere."
The human race is but a monotonous affair. Most of them labour the
greater part of their time for mere subsistence; and the scanty portion
of freedom which remains to them so troubles them that they use every
exertion to get rid of it. Oh, the destiny of man!

But they are a right good sort of people. If I occasionally forget
myself, and take part in the innocent pleasures which are not yet
forbidden to the peasantry, and enjoy myself, for instance, with
genuine freedom and sincerity, round a well-covered table, or arrange an
excursion or a dance opportunely, and so forth, all this produces a good
effect upon my disposition; only I must forget that there lie dormant
within me so many other qualities which moulder uselessly, and which
I am obliged to keep carefully concealed. Ah! this thought affects my
spirits fearfully. And yet to be misunderstood is the fate of the like
of us.

Alas, that the friend of my youth is gone! Alas, that I ever knew her! I
might say to myself, "You are a dreamer to seek what is not to be found
here below." But she has been mine. I have possessed that heart, that
noble soul, in whose presence I seemed to be more than I really was,
because I was all that I could be. Good heavens! did then a single power
of my soul remain unexercised? In her presence could I not display, to
its full extent, that mysterious feeling with which my heart embraces
nature? Was not our intercourse a perpetual web of the finest emotions,
of the keenest wit, the varieties of which, even in their very
eccentricity, bore the stamp of genius? Alas! the few years by which she
was my senior brought her to the grave before me. Never can I forget her
firm mind or her heavenly patience.

A few days ago I met a certain young V--, a frank, open fellow, with
a most pleasing countenance. He has just left the university, does not
deem himself overwise, but believes he knows more than other people.
He has worked hard, as I can perceive from many circumstances, and, in
short, possesses a large stock of information. When he heard that I am
drawing a good deal, and that I know Greek (two wonderful things for
this part of the country), he came to see me, and displayed his whole
store of learning, from Batteaux to Wood, from De Piles to Winkelmann:
he assured me he had read through the first part of Sultzer's theory,
and also possessed a manuscript of Heyne's work on the study of the
antique. I allowed it all to pass.

I have become acquainted, also, with a very worthy person, the district
judge, a frank and open-hearted man. I am told it is a most delightful
thing to see him in the midst of his children, of whom he has nine. His
eldest daughter especially is highly spoken of. He has invited me to go
and see him, and I intend to do so on the first opportunity. He lives
at one of the royal hunting-lodges, which can be reached from here in an
hour and a half by walking, and which he obtained leave to inhabit after
the loss of his wife, as it is so painful to him to reside in town and
at the court.

There have also come in my way a few other originals of a questionable
sort, who are in all respects undesirable, and most intolerable in their
demonstration of friendship. Good-bye. This letter will please you: it
is quite historical.

MAY 22.

That the life of man is but a dream, many a man has surmised heretofore;
and I, too, am everywhere pursued by this feeling. When I consider
the narrow limits within which our active and inquiring faculties are
confined; when I see how all our energies are wasted in providing for
mere necessities, which again have no further end than to prolong
a wretched existence; and then that all our satisfaction concerning
certain subjects of investigation ends in nothing better than a passive
resignation, whilst we amuse ourselves painting our prison-walls with
bright figures and brilliant landscapes,--when I consider all this,
Wilhelm, I am silent. I examine my own being, and find there a world,
but a world rather of imagination and dim desires, than of distinctness
and living power. Then everything swims before my senses, and I smile
and dream while pursuing my way through the world.

All learned professors and doctors are agreed that children do not
comprehend the cause of their desires; but that the grown-up should
wander about this earth like children, without knowing whence they come,
or whither they go, influenced as little by fixed motives, but guided
like them by biscuits, sugar-plums, and the rod,--this is what nobody is
willing to acknowledge; and yet I think it is palpable.

I know what you will say in reply; for I am ready to admit that they are
happiest, who, like children, amuse themselves with their playthings,
dress and undress their dolls, and attentively watch the cupboard,
where mamma has locked up her sweet things, and, when at last they get
a delicious morsel, eat it greedily, and exclaim, "More!" These are
certainly happy beings; but others also are objects of envy, who dignify
their paltry employments, and sometimes even their passions, with
pompous titles, representing them to mankind as gigantic achievements
performed for their welfare and glory. But the man who humbly
acknowledges the vanity of all this, who observes with what pleasure
the thriving citizen converts his little garden into a paradise, and how
patiently even the poor man pursues his weary way under his burden,
and how all wish equally to behold the light of the sun a little
longer,--yes, such a man is at peace, and creates his own world within
himself; and he is also happy, because he is a man. And then, however
limited his sphere, he still preserves in his bosom the sweet feeling of
liberty, and knows that he can quit his prison whenever he likes.

MAY 26.

You know of old my ways of settling anywhere, of selecting a little
cottage in some cosy spot, and of putting up in it with every
inconvenience. Here, too, I have discovered such a snug, comfortable
place, which possesses peculiar charms for me.

About a league from the town is a place called Walheim. (The reader
need not take the trouble to look for the place thus designated. We have
found it necessary to change the names given in the original.) It is
delightfully situated on the side of a hill; and, by proceeding along
one of the footpaths which lead out of the village, you can have a view
of the whole valley. A good old woman lives there, who keeps a small
inn. She sells wine, beer, and coffee, and is cheerful and pleasant
notwithstanding her age. The chief charm of this spot consists in two
linden-trees, spreading their enormous branches over the little green
before the church, which is entirely surrounded by peasants' cottages,
barns, and homesteads. I have seldom seen a place so retired and
peaceable; and there often have my table and chair brought out from
the little inn, and drink my coffee there, and read my Homer. Accident
brought me to the spot one fine afternoon, and I found it perfectly
deserted. Everybody was in the fields except a little boy about four
years of age, who was sitting on the ground, and held between his knees
a child about six months old: he pressed it to his bosom with both
arms, which thus formed a sort of arm-chair; and, notwithstanding the
liveliness which sparkled in its black eyes, it remained perfectly
still. The sight charmed me. I sat down upon a plough opposite, and
sketched with great delight this little picture of brotherly tenderness.
I added the neighbouring hedge, the barn-door, and some broken
cart-wheels, just as they happened to lie; and I found in about an hour
that I had made a very correct and interesting drawing, without putting
in the slightest thing of my own. This confirmed me in my resolution
of adhering, for the future, entirely to nature. She alone is
inexhaustible, and capable of forming the greatest masters. Much may be
alleged in favour of rules, as much may be likewise advanced in favour
of the laws of society: an artist formed upon them will never produce
anything absolutely bad or disgusting; as a man who observes the laws,
and obeys decorum, can never be an absolutely intolerable neighbour, nor
a decided villain: but yet, say what you will of rules, they destroy the
genuine feeling of nature, as well as its true expression. Do not tell
me "that this is too hard, that they only restrain and prune superfluous
branches, etc." My good friend, I will illustrate this by an analogy.
These things resemble love. A warmhearted youth becomes strongly
attached to a maiden: he spends every hour of the day in her company,
wears out his health, and lavishes his fortune, to afford continual
proof that he is wholly devoted to her. Then comes a man of the world, a
man of place and respectability, and addresses him thus: "My good young
friend, love is natural; but you must love within bounds. Divide your
time: devote a portion to business, and give the hours of recreation to
your mistress. Calculate your fortune; and out of the superfluity you
may make her a present, only not too often,--on her birthday, and such
occasions." Pursuing this advice, he may become a useful member of
society, and I should advise every prince to give him an appointment;
but it is all up with his love, and with his genius if he be an artist.
O my friend! why is it that the torrent of genius so seldom bursts
forth, so seldom rolls in full-flowing stream, overwhelming your
astounded soul? Because, on either side of this stream, cold and
respectable persons have taken up their abodes, and, forsooth, their
summer-houses and tulip-beds would suffer from the torrent; wherefore
they dig trenches, and raise embankments betimes, in order to avert the
impending danger.

MAY 27.

I find I have fallen into raptures, declamation, and similes, and have
forgotten, in consequence, to tell you what became of the children.
Absorbed in my artistic contemplations, which I briefly described in my
letter of yesterday, I continued sitting on the plough for two hours.
Toward evening a young woman, with a basket on her arm, came running
toward the children, who had not moved all that time. She exclaimed
from a distance, "You are a good boy, Philip!" She gave me greeting: I
returned it, rose, and approached her. I inquired if she were the mother
of those pretty children. "Yes," she said; and, giving the eldest a
piece of bread, she took the little one in her arms and kissed it with
a mother's tenderness. "I left my child in Philip's care," she said,
"whilst I went into the town with my eldest boy to buy some wheaten
bread, some sugar, and an earthen pot." I saw the various articles in
the basket, from which the cover had fallen. "I shall make some broth
to-night for my little Hans (which was the name of the youngest):
that wild fellow, the big one, broke my pot yesterday, whilst he was
scrambling with Philip for what remained of the contents." I inquired
for the eldest; and she had scarcely time to tell me that he was driving
a couple of geese home from the meadow, when he ran up, and handed
Philip an osier-twig. I talked a little longer with the woman, and found
that she was the daughter of the schoolmaster, and that her husband was
gone on a journey into Switzerland for some money a relation had left
him. "They wanted to cheat him," she said, "and would not answer
his letters; so he is gone there himself. I hope he has met with no
accident, as I have heard nothing of him since his departure." I left
the woman, with regret, giving each of the children a kreutzer, with an
additional one for the youngest, to buy some wheaten bread for his broth
when she went to town next; and so we parted. I assure you, my dear
friend, when my thoughts are all in tumult, the sight of such a
creature as this tranquillises my disturbed mind. She moves in a
happy thoughtlessness within the confined circle of her existence; she
supplies her wants from day to day; and, when she sees the leaves fall,
they raise no other idea in her mind than that winter is approaching.
Since that time I have gone out there frequently. The children have
become quite familiar with me; and each gets a lump of sugar when I
drink my coffee, and they share my milk and bread and butter in the
evening. They always receive their kreutzer on Sundays, for the good
woman has orders to give it to them when I do not go there after evening
service. They are quite at home with me, tell me everything; and I am
particularly amused with observing their tempers, and the simplicity of
their behaviour, when some of the other village children are assembled
with them.

It has given me a deal of trouble to satisfy the anxiety of the mother,
lest (as she says) "they should inconvenience the gentleman."

MAY 30.

What I have lately said of painting is equally true with respect to
poetry. It is only necessary for us to know what is really excellent,
and venture to give it expression; and that is saying much in few words.
To-day I have had a scene, which, if literally related, would, make the
most beautiful idyl in the world. But why should I talk of poetry and
scenes and idyls? Can we never take pleasure in nature without having
recourse to art?

If you expect anything grand or magnificent from this introduction,
you will be sadly mistaken. It relates merely to a peasant-lad, who
has excited in me the warmest interest. As usual, I shall tell my story
badly; and you, as usual, will think me extravagant. It is Walheim once
more--always Walheim--which produces these wonderful phenomena.

A party had assembled outside the house under the linden-trees, to drink
coffee. The company did not exactly please me; and, under one pretext or
another, I lingered behind.

A peasant came from an adjoining house, and set to work arranging some
part of the same plough which I had lately sketched. His appearance
pleased me; and I spoke to him, inquired about his circumstances, made
his acquaintance, and, as is my wont with persons of that class, was
soon admitted into his confidence. He said he was in the service of
a young widow, who set great store by him. He spoke so much of his
mistress, and praised her so extravagantly, that I could soon see he was
desperately in love with her. "She is no longer young," he said: "and
she was treated so badly by her former husband that she does not mean
to marry again." From his account it was so evident what incomparable
charms she possessed for him, and how ardently he wished she would
select him to extinguish the recollection of her first husband's
misconduct, that I should have to repeat his own words in order to
describe the depth of the poor fellow's attachment, truth, and devotion.
It would, in fact, require the gifts of a great poet to convey the
expression of his features, the harmony of his voice, and the heavenly
fire of his eye. No words can portray the tenderness of his every
movement and of every feature: no effort of mine could do justice to the
scene. His alarm lest I should misconceive his position with regard
to his mistress, or question the propriety of her conduct, touched me
particularly. The charming manner with which he described her form and
person, which, without possessing the graces of youth, won and attached
him to her, is inexpressible, and must be left to the imagination. I
have never in my life witnessed or fancied or conceived the possibility
of such intense devotion, such ardent affections, united with so much
purity. Do not blame me if I say that the recollection of this innocence
and truth is deeply impressed upon my very soul; that this picture of
fidelity and tenderness haunts me everywhere; and that my own heart, as
though enkindled by the flame, glows and burns within me.

I mean now to try and see her as soon as I can: or perhaps, on second
thoughts, I had better not; it is better I should behold her through the
eyes of her lover. To my sight, perhaps, she would not appear as she now
stands before me; and why should I destroy so sweet a picture?

JUNE 16.

"Why do I not write to you?" You lay claim to learning, and ask such a
question. You should have guessed that I am well--that is to say--in a
word, I have made an acquaintance who has won my heart: I have--I know
not.

To give you a regular account of the manner in which I have become
acquainted with the most amiable of women would be a difficult task. I
am a happy and contented mortal, but a poor historian.

An angel! Nonsense! Everybody so describes his mistress; and yet I find
it impossible to tell you how perfect she is, or why she is so perfect:
suffice it to say she has captivated all my senses.

So much simplicity with so much understanding--so mild, and yet so
resolute--a mind so placid, and a life so active.

But all this is ugly balderdash, which expresses not a single character
nor feature. Some other time--but no, not some other time, now, this
very instant, will I tell you all about it. Now or never. Well, between
ourselves, since I commenced my letter, I have been three times on the
point of throwing down my pen, of ordering my horse, and riding out.
And yet I vowed this morning that I would not ride to-day, and yet every
moment I am rushing to the window to see how high the sun is.

I could not restrain myself--go to her I must. I have just returned,
Wilhelm; and whilst I am taking supper I will write to you. What
a delight it was for my soul to see her in the midst of her dear,
beautiful children,--eight brothers and sisters!

But, if I proceed thus, you will be no wiser at the end of my letter
than you were at the beginning. Attend, then, and I will compel myself
to give you the details.

I mentioned to you the other day that I had become acquainted with S--,
the district judge, and that he had invited me to go and visit him in
his retirement, or rather in his little kingdom. But I neglected going,
and perhaps should never have gone, if chance had not discovered to me
the treasure which lay concealed in that retired spot. Some of our young
people had proposed giving a ball in the country, at which I consented
to be present. I offered my hand for the evening to a pretty and
agreeable, but rather commonplace, sort of girl from the immediate
neighbourhood; and it was agreed that I should engage a carriage, and
call upon Charlotte, with my partner and her aunt, to convey them to the
ball. My companion informed me, as we drove along through the park
to the hunting-lodge, that I should make the acquaintance of a very
charming young lady. "Take care," added the aunt, "that you do not lose
your heart." "Why?" said I. "Because she is already engaged to a very
worthy man," she replied, "who is gone to settle his affairs upon
the death of his father, and will succeed to a very considerable
inheritance." This information possessed no interest for me. When
we arrived at the gate, the sun was setting behind the tops of the
mountains. The atmosphere was heavy; and the ladies expressed their
fears of an approaching storm, as masses of low black clouds were
gathering in the horizon. I relieved their anxieties by pretending to be
weather-wise, although I myself had some apprehensions lest our pleasure
should be interrupted.

I alighted; and a maid came to the door, and requested us to wait a
moment for her mistress. I walked across the court to a well-built
house, and, ascending the flight of steps in front, opened the door,
and saw before me the most charming spectacle I had ever witnessed. Six
children, from eleven to two years old, were running about the hall, and
surrounding a lady of middle height, with a lovely figure, dressed in a
robe of simple white, trimmed with pink ribbons. She was holding a rye
loaf in her hand, and was cutting slices for the little ones all around,
in proportion to their age and appetite. She performed her task in a
graceful and affectionate manner; each claimant awaiting his turn with
outstretched hands, and boisterously shouting his thanks. Some of them
ran away at once, to enjoy their evening meal; whilst others, of a
gentler disposition, retired to the courtyard to see the strangers, and
to survey the carriage in which their Charlotte was to drive away. "Pray
forgive me for giving you the trouble to come for me, and for keeping
the ladies waiting: but dressing, and arranging some household duties
before I leave, had made me forget my children's supper; and they do
not like to take it from any one but me." I uttered some indifferent
compliment: but my whole soul was absorbed by her air, her voice, her
manner; and I had scarcely recovered myself when she ran into her room
to fetch her gloves and fan. The young ones threw inquiring glances at
me from a distance; whilst I approached the youngest, a most delicious
little creature. He drew back; and Charlotte, entering at the very
moment, said, "Louis, shake hands with your cousin." The little fellow
obeyed willingly; and I could not resist giving him a hearty kiss,
notwithstanding his rather dirty face. "Cousin," said I to Charlotte,
as I handed her down, "do you think I deserve the happiness of being
related to you?" She replied, with a ready smile, "Oh! I have such
a number of cousins, that I should be sorry if you were the most
undeserving of them." In taking leave, she desired her next sister,
Sophy, a girl about eleven years old, to take great care of the
children, and to say good-bye to papa for her when he came home from his
ride. She enjoined to the little ones to obey their sister Sophy as they
would herself, upon which some promised that they would; but a little
fair-haired girl, about six years old, looked discontented, and said,
"But Sophy is not you, Charlotte; and we like you best." The two eldest
boys had clambered up the carriage; and, at my request, she permitted
them to accompany us a little way through the forest, upon their
promising to sit very still, and hold fast.

We were hardly seated, and the ladies had scarcely exchanged
compliments, making the usual remarks upon each other's dress, and upon
the company they expected to meet, when Charlotte stopped the carriage,
and made her brothers get down. They insisted upon kissing her hands
once more; which the eldest did with all the tenderness of a youth
of fifteen, but the other in a lighter and more careless manner. She
desired them again to give her love to the children, and we drove off.

The aunt inquired of Charlotte whether she had finished the book she had
last sent her. "No," said Charlotte; "I did not like it: you can have
it again. And the one before was not much better." I was surprised, upon
asking the title, to hear that it was ____. (We feel obliged to suppress
the passage in the letter, to prevent any one from feeling aggrieved;
although no author need pay much attention to the opinion of a mere
girl, or that of an unsteady young man.)

I found penetration and character in everything she said: every
expression seemed to brighten her features with new charms,--with
new rays of genius,--which unfolded by degrees, as she felt herself
understood.

"When I was younger," she observed, "I loved nothing so much as
romances. Nothing could equal my delight when, on some holiday, I could
settle down quietly in a corner, and enter with my whole heart and soul
into the joys or sorrows of some fictitious Leonora. I do not deny that
they even possess some charms for me yet. But I read so seldom, that I
prefer books suited exactly to my taste. And I like those authors best
whose scenes describe my own situation in life,--and the friends who are
about me, whose stories touch me with interest, from resembling my own
homely existence,--which, without being absolutely paradise, is, on the
whole, a source of indescribable happiness."

I endeavoured to conceal the emotion which these words occasioned, but
it was of slight avail; for, when she had expressed so truly her opinion
of "The Vicar of Wakefield," and of other works, the names of which I
omit (Though the names are omitted, yet the authors mentioned deserve
Charlotte's approbation, and will feel it in their hearts when they read
this passage. It concerns no other person.), I could no longer contain
myself, but gave full utterance to what I thought of it: and it was not
until Charlotte had addressed herself to the two other ladies, that
I remembered their presence, and observed them sitting mute with
astonishment. The aunt looked at me several times with an air of
raillery, which, however, I did not at all mind.

We talked of the pleasures of dancing. "If it is a fault to love it,"
said Charlotte, "I am ready to confess that I prize it above all other
amusements. If anything disturbs me, I go to the piano, play an air to
which I have danced, and all goes right again directly."

You, who know me, can fancy how steadfastly I gazed upon her rich dark
eyes during these remarks, how my very soul gloated over her warm lips
and fresh, glowing cheeks, how I became quite lost in the delightful
meaning of her words, so much so, that I scarcely heard the actual
expressions. In short, I alighted from the carriage like a person in a
dream, and was so lost to the dim world around me, that I scarcely heard
the music which resounded from the illuminated ballroom.

The two Messrs. Andran and a certain N. N. (I cannot trouble myself with
the names), who were the aunt's and Charlotte's partners, received us
at the carriage-door, and took possession of their ladies, whilst I
followed with mine.

We commenced with a minuet. I led out one lady after another, and
precisely those who were the most disagreeable could not bring
themselves to leave off. Charlotte and her partner began an English
country dance, and you must imagine my delight when it was their turn
to dance the figure with us. You should see Charlotte dance. She dances
with her whole heart and soul: her figure is all harmony, elegance,
and grace, as if she were conscious of nothing else, and had no
other thought or feeling; and, doubtless, for the moment, every other
sensation is extinct.

She was engaged for the second country dance, but promised me the third,
and assured me, with the most agreeable freedom, that she was very
fond of waltzing. "It is the custom here," she said, "for the previous
partners to waltz together; but my partner is an indifferent waltzer,
and will feel delighted if I save him the trouble. Your partner is not
allowed to waltz, and, indeed, is equally incapable: but I observed
during the country dance that you waltz well; so, if you will waltz with
me, I beg you would propose it to my partner, and I will propose it to
yours." We agreed, and it was arranged that our partners should mutually
entertain each other.

We set off, and, at first, delighted ourselves with the usual graceful
motions of the arms. With what grace, with what ease, she moved! When
the waltz commenced, and the dancers whirled around each other in the
giddy maze, there was some confusion, owing to the incapacity of some of
the dancers. We judiciously remained still, allowing the others to weary
themselves; and, when the awkward dancers had withdrawn, we joined in,
and kept it up famously together with one other couple,--Andran and his
partner. Never did I dance more lightly. I felt myself more than mortal,
holding this loveliest of creatures in my arms, flying, with her as
rapidly as the wind, till I lost sight of every other object; and O
Wilhelm, I vowed at that moment, that a maiden whom I loved, or for whom
I felt the slightest attachment, never, never should waltz with any one
else but with me, if I went to perdition for it!--you will understand
this.

We took a few turns in the room to recover our breath. Charlotte sat
down, and felt refreshed by partaking of some oranges which I had had
secured,--the only ones that had been left; but at every slice which,
from politeness, she offered to her neighbours, I felt as though a
dagger went through my heart.

We were the second couple in the third country dance. As we were going
down (and Heaven knows with what ecstasy I gazed at her arms and eyes,
beaming with the sweetest feeling of pure and genuine enjoyment),
we passed a lady whom I had noticed for her charming expression of
countenance; although she was no longer young. She looked at Charlotte
with a smile, then, holding up her finger in a threatening attitude,
repeated twice in a very significant tone of voice the name of "Albert."

"Who is Albert," said I to Charlotte, "if it is not impertinent to ask?"
She was about to answer, when we were obliged to separate, in order to
execute a figure in the dance; and, as we crossed over again in front of
each other, I perceived she looked somewhat pensive. "Why need I conceal
it from you?" she said, as she gave me her hand for the promenade.
"Albert is a worthy man, to whom I am engaged." Now, there was nothing
new to me in this (for the girls had told me of it on the way); but it
was so far new that I had not thought of it in connection with her whom,
in so short a time, I had learned to prize so highly. Enough, I became
confused, got out in the figure, and occasioned general confusion; so
that it required all Charlotte's presence of mind to set me right by
pulling and pushing me into my proper place.

The dance was not yet finished when the lightning which had for some
time been seen in the horizon, and which I had asserted to proceed
entirely from heat, grew more violent; and the thunder was heard above
the music. When any distress or terror surprises us in the midst of our
amusements, it naturally makes a deeper impression than at other times,
either because the contrast makes us more keenly susceptible, or rather
perhaps because our senses are then more open to impressions, and the
shock is consequently stronger. To this cause I must ascribe the fright
and shrieks of the ladies. One sagaciously sat down in a corner with
her back to the window, and held her fingers to her ears; a second knelt
down before her, and hid her face in her lap; a third threw herself
between them, and embraced her sister with a thousand tears; some
insisted on going home; others, unconscious of their actions, wanted
sufficient presence of mind to repress the impertinence of their young
partners, who sought to direct to themselves those sighs which the lips
of our agitated beauties intended for heaven. Some of the gentlemen had
gone down-stairs to smoke a quiet cigar, and the rest of the company
gladly embraced a happy suggestion of the hostess to retire into another
room which was provided with shutters and curtains. We had hardly got
there, when Charlotte placed the chairs in a circle; and, when the
company had sat down in compliance with her request, she forthwith
proposed a round game.

I noticed some of the company prepare their mouths and draw themselves
up at the prospect of some agreeable forfeit. "Let us play at counting,"
said Charlotte. "Now, pay attention: I shall go round the circle from
right to left; and each person is to count, one after the other, the
number that comes to him, and must count fast; whoever stops or
mistakes is to have a box on the ear, and so on, till we have counted a
thousand." It was delightful to see the fun. She went round the circle
with upraised arm. "One," said the first; "two," the second; "three,"
the third; and so on, till Charlotte went faster and faster. One made a
mistake, instantly a box on the ear; and, amid the laughter that ensued,
came another box; and so on, faster and faster. I myself came in for
two. I fancied they were harder than the rest, and felt quite delighted.
A general laughter and confusion put an end to the game long before
we had counted as far as a thousand. The party broke up into little
separate knots: the storm had ceased, and I followed Charlotte into the
ballroom. On the way she said, "The game banished their fears of the
storm." I could make no reply. "I myself," she continued, "was as much
frightened as any of them; but by affecting courage, to keep up the
spirits of the others, I forgot my apprehensions." We went to the
window. It was still thundering at a distance: a soft rain was pouring
down over the country, and filled the air around us with delicious
odours. Charlotte leaned forward on her arm; her eyes wandered over the
scene; she raised them to the sky, and then turned them upon me;
they were moistened with tears; she placed her hand on mine and said,
"Klopstock!" at once I remembered the magnificent ode which was in her
thoughts: I felt oppressed with the weight of my sensations, and sank
under them. It was more than I could bear. I bent over her hand, kissed
it in a stream of delicious tears, and again looked up to her eyes.
Divine Klopstock! why didst thou not see thy apotheosis in those eyes?
And thy name so often profaned, would that I never heard it repeated!

JUNE 19.

I no longer remember where I stopped in my narrative: I only know it was
two in the morning when I went to bed; and if you had been with me,
that I might have talked instead of writing to you, I should, in all
probability, have kept you up till daylight.

I think I have not yet related what happened as we rode home from
the ball, nor have I time to tell you now. It was a most magnificent
sunrise: the whole country was refreshed, and the rain fell drop by
drop from the trees in the forest. Our companions were asleep. Charlotte
asked me if I did not wish to sleep also, and begged of me not to make
any ceremony on her account. Looking steadfastly at her, I answered, "As
long as I see those eyes open, there is no fear of my falling asleep."
We both continued awake till we reached her door. The maid opened it
softly, and assured her, in answer to her inquiries, that her father and
the children were well, and still sleeping. I left her asking permission
to visit her in the course of the day. She consented, and I went, and,
since that time, sun, moon, and stars may pursue their course: I know
not whether it is day or night; the whole world is nothing to me.

JUNE 21.

My days are as happy as those reserved by God for his elect; and,
whatever be my fate hereafter, I can never say that I have not tasted
joy,--the purest joy of life. You know Walheim. I am now completely
settled there. In that spot I am only half a league from Charlotte; and
there I enjoy myself, and taste all the pleasure which can fall to the
lot of man.

Little did I imagine, when I selected Walheim for my pedestrian
excursions, that all heaven lay so near it. How often in my wanderings
from the hillside or from the meadows across the river, have I beheld
this hunting-lodge, which now contains within it all the joy of my
heart!

I have often, my dear Wilhelm, reflected on the eagerness men feel to
wander and make new discoveries, and upon that secret impulse which
afterward inclines them to return to their narrow circle, conform to
the laws of custom, and embarrass themselves no longer with what passes
around them.

It is so strange how, when I came here first, and gazed upon that
lovely valley from the hillside, I felt charmed with the entire scene
surrounding me. The little wood opposite--how delightful to sit under
its shade! How fine the view from that point of rock! Then, that
delightful chain of hills, and the exquisite valleys at their feet!
Could I but wander and lose myself amongst them! I went, and returned
without finding what I wished. Distance, my friend, is like futurity. A
dim vastness is spread before our souls: the perceptions of our mind are
as obscure as those of our vision; and we desire earnestly to surrender
up our whole being, that it may be filled with the complete and perfect
bliss of one glorious emotion. But alas! when we have attained our
object, when the distant there becomes the present here, all is changed:
we are as poor and circumscribed as ever, and our souls still languish
for unattainable happiness.

So does the restless traveller pant for his native soil, and find in his
own cottage, in the arms of his wife, in the affections of his children,
and in the labour necessary for their support, that happiness which he
had sought in vain through the wide world.

When, in the morning at sunrise, I go out to Walheim, and with my own
hands gather in the garden the pease which are to serve for my dinner,
when I sit down to shell them, and read my Homer during the intervals,
and then, selecting a saucepan from the kitchen, fetch my own butter,
put my mess on the fire, cover it up, and sit down to stir it as
occasion requires, I figure to myself the illustrious suitors of
Penelope, killing, dressing, and preparing their own oxen and swine.
Nothing fills me with a more pure and genuine sense of happiness than
those traits of patriarchal life which, thank Heaven! I can imitate
without affectation. Happy is it, indeed, for me that my heart is
capable of feeling the same simple and innocent pleasure as the peasant
whose table is covered with food of his own rearing, and who not only
enjoys his meal, but remembers with delight the happy days and sunny
mornings when he planted it, the soft evenings when he watered it, and
the pleasure he experienced in watching its daily growth.

JUNE 29.

The day before yesterday, the physician came from the town to pay a
visit to the judge. He found me on the floor playing with Charlotte's
children. Some of them were scrambling over me, and others romped with
me; and, as I caught and tickled them, they made a great noise. The
doctor is a formal sort of personage: he adjusts the plaits of his
ruffles, and continually settles his frill whilst he is talking to you;
and he thought my conduct beneath the dignity of a sensible man. I could
perceive this by his countenance. But I did not suffer myself to be
disturbed. I allowed him to continue his wise conversation, whilst I
rebuilt the children's card houses for them as fast as they threw them
down. He went about the town afterward, complaining that the judge's
children were spoiled enough before, but that now Werther was completely
ruining them.

Yes, my dear Wilhelm, nothing on this earth affects my heart so much
as children. When I look on at their doings; when I mark in the little
creatures the seeds of all those virtues and qualities which they will
one day find so indispensable; when I behold in the obstinate all the
future firmness and constancy of a noble character; in the capricious,
that levity and gaiety of temper which will carry them lightly over
the dangers and troubles of life, their whole nature simple and
unpolluted,--then I call to mind the golden words of the Great Teacher
of mankind, "Unless ye become like one of these!" And now, my friend,
these children, who are our equals, whom we ought to consider as our
models, we treat them as though they were our subjects. They are allowed
no will of their own. And have we, then, none ourselves? Whence comes
our exclusive right? Is it because we are older and more experienced?
Great God! from the height of thy heaven thou beholdest great children
and little children, and no others; and thy Son has long since declared
which afford thee greatest pleasure. But they believe in him, and hear
him not,--that, too, is an old story; and they train their children
after their own image, etc.

Adieu, Wilhelm: I will not further bewilder myself with this subject.

JULY 1.

The consolation Charlotte can bring to an invalid I experience from my
own heart, which suffers more from her absence than many a poor creature
lingering on a bed of sickness. She is gone to spend a few days in the
town with a very worthy woman, who is given over by the physicians, and
wishes to have Charlotte near her in her last moments. I accompanied
her last week on a visit to the Vicar of S--, a small village in
the mountains, about a league hence. We arrived about four o'clock:
Charlotte had taken her little sister with her. When we entered the
vicarage court, we found the good old man sitting on a bench before
the door, under the shade of two large walnut-trees. At the sight
of Charlotte he seemed to gain new life, rose, forgot his stick, and
ventured to walk toward her. She ran to him, and made him sit down
again; then, placing herself by his side, she gave him a number of
messages from her father, and then caught up his youngest child, a
dirty, ugly little thing, the joy of his old age, and kissed it. I wish
you could have witnessed her attention to this old man,--how she raised
her voice on account of his deafness; how she told him of healthy young
people, who had been carried off when it was least expected; praised
the virtues of Carlsbad, and commended his determination to spend the
ensuing summer there; and assured him that he looked better and stronger
than he did when she saw him last. I, in the meantime, paid attention to
his good lady. The old man seemed quite in spirits; and as I could
not help admiring the beauty of the walnut-trees, which formed such
an agreeable shade over our heads, he began, though with some little
difficulty, to tell us their history. "As to the oldest," said he, "we
do not know who planted it,--some say one clergyman, and some another:
but the younger one, there behind us, is exactly the age of my wife,
fifty years old next October; her father planted it in the morning,
and in the evening she came into the world. My wife's father was my
predecessor here, and I cannot tell you how fond he was of that tree;
and it is fully as dear to me. Under the shade of that very tree, upon
a log of wood, my wife was seated knitting, when I, a poor student, came
into this court for the first time, just seven and twenty years ago."
Charlotte inquired for his daughter. He said she was gone with Herr
Schmidt to the meadows, and was with the haymakers. The old man then
resumed his story, and told us how his predecessor had taken a fancy
to him, as had his daughter likewise; and how he had become first his
curate, and subsequently his successor. He had scarcely finished his
story when his daughter returned through the garden, accompanied by the
above-mentioned Herr Schmidt. She welcomed Charlotte affectionately,
and I confess I was much taken with her appearance. She was a
lively-looking, good-humoured brunette, quite competent to amuse one for
a short time in the country. Her lover (for such Herr Schmidt evidently
appeared to be) was a polite, reserved personage, and would not join
our conversation, notwithstanding all Charlotte's endeavours to draw
him out. I was much annoyed at observing, by his countenance, that
his silence did not arise from want of talent, but from caprice and
ill-humour. This subsequently became very evident, when we set out to
take a walk, and Frederica joining Charlotte, with whom I was talking,
the worthy gentleman's face, which was naturally rather sombre, became
so dark and angry that Charlotte was obliged to touch my arm, and remind
me that I was talking too much to Frederica. Nothing distresses me more
than to see men torment each other; particularly when in the flower of
their age, in the very season of pleasure, they waste their few short
days of sunshine in quarrels and disputes, and only perceive their error
when it is too late to repair it. This thought dwelt upon my mind; and
in the evening, when we returned to the vicar's, and were sitting round
the table with our bread end milk, the conversation turned on the joys
and sorrows of the world, I could not resist the temptation to inveigh
bitterly against ill-humour. "We are apt," said I, "to complain,
but--with very little cause, that our happy days are few, and our evil
days many. If our hearts were always disposed to receive the benefits
Heaven sends us, we should acquire strength to support evil when it
comes." "But," observed the vicar's wife, "we cannot always command our
tempers, so much depends upon the constitution: when the body suffers,
the mind is ill at ease." "I acknowledge that," I continued; "but we
must consider such a disposition in the light of a disease, and inquire
whether there is no remedy for it."

"I should be glad to hear one," said Charlotte: "at least, I think very
much depends upon ourselves; I know it is so with me. When anything
annoys me, and disturbs my temper, I hasten into the garden, hum a
couple of country dances, and it is all right with me directly." "That
is what I meant," I replied; "ill-humour resembles indolence: it is
natural to us; but if once we have courage to exert ourselves, we find
our work run fresh from our hands, and we experience in the activity
from which we shrank a real enjoyment." Frederica listened very
attentively: and the young man objected, that we were not masters of
ourselves, and still less so of our feelings. "The question is about a
disagreeable feeling," I added, "from which every one would willingly
escape, but none know their own power without trial. Invalids are glad
to consult physicians, and submit to the most scrupulous regimen, the
most nauseous medicines, in order to recover their health." I observed
that the good old man inclined his head, and exerted himself to hear our
discourse; so I raised my voice, and addressed myself directly to
him. "We preach against a great many crimes," I observed, "but I never
remember a sermon delivered against ill-humour." "That may do very
well for your town clergymen," said he: "country people are never
ill-humoured; though, indeed, it might be useful, occasionally, to my
wife for instance, and the judge." We all laughed, as did he likewise
very cordially, till he fell into a fit of coughing, which interrupted
our conversation for a time. Herr Schmidt resumed the subject. "You
call ill humour a crime," he remarked, "but I think you use too strong
a term." "Not at all," I replied, "if that deserves the name which is
so pernicious to ourselves and our neighbours. Is it not enough that we
want the power to make one another happy, must we deprive each other of
the pleasure which we can all make for ourselves? Show me the man who
has the courage to hide his ill-humour, who bears the whole burden
himself, without disturbing the peace of those around him. No:
ill-humour arises from an inward consciousness of our own want of merit,
from a discontent which ever accompanies that envy which foolish vanity
engenders. We see people happy, whom we have not made so, and cannot
endure the sight." Charlotte looked at me with a smile; she observed
the emotion with which I spoke: and a tear in the eyes of Frederica
stimulated me to proceed. "Woe unto those," I said, "who use their power
over a human heart to destroy the simple pleasures it would naturally
enjoy! All the favours, all the attentions, in the world cannot
compensate for the loss of that happiness which a cruel tyranny has
destroyed." My heart was full as I spoke. A recollection of many things
which had happened pressed upon my mind, and filled my eyes with tears.
"We should daily repeat to ourselves," I exclaimed, "that we should not
interfere with our friends, unless to leave them in possession of their
own joys, and increase their happiness by sharing it with them! But when
their souls are tormented by a violent passion, or their hearts
rent with grief, is it in your power to afford them the slightest
consolation?

"And when the last fatal malady seizes the being whose untimely grave
you have prepared, when she lies languid and exhausted before you, her
dim eyes raised to heaven, and the damp of death upon her pallid brow,
there you stand at her bedside like a condemned criminal, with the
bitter feeling that your whole fortune could not save her; and the
agonising thought wrings you, that all your efforts are powerless to
impart even a moment's strength to the departing soul, or quicken her
with a transitory consolation."

At these words the remembrance of a similar scene at which I had been
once present fell with full force upon my heart. I buried my face in my
handkerchief, and hastened from the room, and was only recalled to my
recollection by Charlotte's voice, who reminded me that it was time to
return home. With what tenderness she chid me on the way for the too
eager interest I took in everything! She declared it would do me injury,
and that I ought to spare myself. Yes, my angel! I will do so for your
sake.

JULY 6.

She is still with her dying friend, and is still the same bright,
beautiful creature whose presence softens pain, and sheds happiness
around whichever way she turns. She went out yesterday with her little
sisters: I knew it, and went to meet them; and we walked together. In
about an hour and a half we returned to the town. We stopped at the
spring I am so fond of, and which is now a thousand times dearer to me
than ever. Charlotte seated herself upon the low wall, and we gathered
about her. I looked around, and recalled the time when my heart was
unoccupied and free. "Dear fountain!" I said, "since that time I have no
more come to enjoy cool repose by thy fresh stream: I have passed thee
with careless steps, and scarcely bestowed a glance upon thee." I looked
down, and observed Charlotte's little sister, Jane, coming up the
steps with a glass of water. I turned toward Charlotte, and I felt her
influence over me. Jane at the moment approached with the glass. Her
sister, Marianne, wished to take it from her. "No!" cried the child,
with the sweetest expression of face, "Charlotte must drink first."

The affection and simplicity with which this was uttered so charmed
me, that I sought to express my feelings by catching up the child and
kissing her heartily. She was frightened, and began to cry. "You should
not do that," said Charlotte: I felt perplexed. "Come, Jane," she
continued, taking her hand, and leading her down the steps again, "it
is no matter: wash yourself quickly in the fresh water." I stood and
watched them; and when I saw the little dear rubbing her cheeks with
her wet hands, in full belief that all the impurities contracted from my
ugly beard would be washed off by the miraculous water, and how, though
Charlotte said it would do, she continued still to wash with all her
might, as though she thought too much were better than too little, I
assure you, Wilhelm, I never attended a baptism with greater reverence;
and, when Charlotte came up from the well, I could have prostrated
myself as before the prophet of an Eastern nation.

In the evening I would not resist telling the story to a person who,
I thought, possessed some natural feeling, because he was a man of
understanding. But what a mistake I made. He maintained it was very
wrong of Charlotte, that we should not deceive children, that such
things occasioned countless mistakes and superstitions, from which we
were bound to protect the young. It occurred to me then, that this very
man had been baptised only a week before; so I said nothing further,
but maintained the justice of my own convictions. We should deal with
children as God deals with us, we are happiest under the influence of
innocent delusions.

JULY 8.

What a child is man that he should be so solicitous about a look! What a
child is man! We had been to Walheim: the ladies went in a carriage;
but during our walk I thought I saw in Charlotte's dark eyes--I am a
fool--but forgive me! you should see them,--those eyes.--However, to be
brief (for my own eyes are weighed down with sleep), you must know,
when the ladies stepped into their carriage again, young W. Seldstadt,
Andran, and I were standing about the door. They are a merry set of
fellows, and they were all laughing and joking together. I watched
Charlotte's eyes. They wandered from one to the other; but they did not
light on me, on me, who stood there motionless, and who saw nothing but
her! My heart bade her a thousand times adieu, but she noticed me not.
The carriage drove off; and my eyes filled with tears. I looked after
her: suddenly I saw Charlotte's bonnet leaning out of the window, and
she turned to look back, was it at me? My dear friend, I know not; and
in this uncertainty I find consolation. Perhaps she turned to look at
me. Perhaps! Good-night--what a child I am!

JULY 10.

You should see how foolish I look in company when her name is mentioned,
particularly when I am asked plainly how I like her. How I like her!
I detest the phrase. What sort of creature must he be who merely liked
Charlotte, whose whole heart and senses were not entirely absorbed by
her. Like her! Some one asked me lately how I liked Ossian.

JULY 11.

Madame M--is very ill. I pray for her recovery, because Charlotte shares
my sufferings. I see her occasionally at my friend's house, and to-day
she has told me the strangest circumstance. Old M--is a covetous,
miserly fellow, who has long worried and annoyed the poor lady sadly;
but she has borne her afflictions patiently. A few days ago, when the
physician informed us that her recovery was hopeless, she sent for
her husband (Charlotte was present), and addressed him thus: "I have
something to confess, which, after my decease, may occasion trouble
and confusion. I have hitherto conducted your household as frugally and
economically as possible, but you must pardon me for having defrauded
you for thirty years. At the commencement of our married life, you
allowed a small sum for the wants of the kitchen, and the other
household expenses. When our establishment increased and our property
grew larger, I could not persuade you to increase the weekly allowance
in proportion: in short, you know, that, when our wants were greatest,
you required me to supply everything with seven florins a week. I
took the money from you without an observation, but made up the weekly
deficiency from the money-chest; as nobody would suspect your wife of
robbing the household bank. But I have wasted nothing, and should have
been content to meet my eternal Judge without this confession, if she,
upon whom the management of your establishment will devolve after my
decease, would be free from embarrassment upon your insisting that the
allowance made to me, your former wife, was sufficient."

I talked with Charlotte of the inconceivable manner in which men allow
themselves to be blinded; how any one could avoid suspecting some
deception, when seven florins only were allowed to defray expenses
twice as great. But I have myself known people who believed, without
any visible astonishment, that their house possessed the prophet's
never-failing cruse of oil.

JULY 13.

No, I am not deceived. In her dark eyes I read a genuine interest in me
and in my fortunes. Yes, I feel it; and I may believe my own heart which
tells me--dare I say it?--dare I pronounce the divine words?--that she
loves me!

That she loves me! How the idea exalts me in my own eyes! And, as you
can understand my feelings, I may say to you, how I honour myself since
she loves me!

Is this presumption, or is it a consciousness of the truth? I do not
know a man able to supplant me in the heart of Charlotte; and yet when
she speaks of her betrothed with so much warmth and affection, I feel
like the soldier who has been stripped of his honours and titles, and
deprived of his sword.

JULY 16.

How my heart beats when by accident I touch her finger, or my feet meet
hers under the table! I draw back as if from a furnace; but a secret
force impels me forward again, and my senses become disordered.
Her innocent, unconscious heart never knows what agony these little
familiarities inflict upon me. Sometimes when we are talking she lays
her hand upon mine, and in the eagerness of conversation comes closer to
me, and her balmy breath reaches my lips,--when I feel as if lightning
had struck me, and that I could sink into the earth. And yet, Wilhelm,
with all this heavenly confidence,--if I know myself, and should ever
dare--you understand me. No, no! my heart is not so corrupt, it is weak,
weak enough but is not that a degree of corruption?

She is to me a sacred being. All passion is still in her presence: I
cannot express my sensations when I am near her. I feel as if my soul
beat in every nerve of my body. There is a melody which she plays on the
piano with angelic skill,--so simple is it, and yet so spiritual! It is
her favourite air; and, when she plays the first note, all pain, care,
and sorrow disappear from me in a moment.

I believe every word that is said of the magic of ancient music. How her
simple song enchants me! Sometimes, when I am ready to commit suicide,
she sings that air; and instantly the gloom and madness which hung over
me are dispersed, and I breathe freely again.

JULY 18.

Wilhelm, what is the world to our hearts without love? What is a
magic-lantern without light? You have but to kindle the flame within,
and the brightest figures shine on the white wall; and, if love only
show us fleeting shadows, we are yet happy, when, like mere children, we
behold them, and are transported with the splendid phantoms. I have not
been able to see Charlotte to-day. I was prevented by company from which
I could not disengage myself. What was to be done? I sent my servant to
her house, that I might at least see somebody to-day who had been near
her. Oh, the impatience with which I waited for his return! the joy with
which I welcomed him! I should certainly have caught him in my arms, and
kissed him, if I had not been ashamed.

It is said that the Bonona stone, when placed in the sun, attracts the
rays, and for a time appears luminous in the dark. So was it with me
and this servant. The idea that Charlotte's eyes had dwelt on his
countenance, his cheek, his very apparel, endeared them all inestimably
to me, so that at the moment I would not have parted from him for a
thousand crowns. His presence made me so happy! Beware of laughing at
me, Wilhelm. Can that be a delusion which makes us happy?

JULY 19.

"I shall see her today!" I exclaim with delight, when I rise in the
morning, and look out with gladness of heart at the bright, beautiful
sun. "I shall see her today!" And then I have no further wish to form:
all, all is included in that one thought.

JULY 20.

I cannot assent to your proposal that I should accompany the ambassador
to ------. I do not love subordination; and we all know that he is
a rough, disagreeable person to be connected with. You say my mother
wishes me to be employed. I could not help laughing at that. Am I not
sufficiently employed? And is it not in reality the same, whether
I shell peas or count lentils? The world runs on from one folly to
another; and the man who, solely from regard to the opinion of others,
and without any wish or necessity of his own, toils after gold, honour,
or any other phantom, is no better than a fool.

JULY 24.

You insist so much on my not neglecting my drawing, that it would be as
well for me to say nothing as to confess how little I have lately done.

I never felt happier, I never understood nature better, even down to the
veriest stem or smallest blade of grass; and yet I am unable to express
myself: my powers of execution are so weak, everything seems to swim
and float before me, so that I cannot make a clear, bold outline. But
I fancy I should succeed better if I had some clay or wax to model. I
shall try, if this state of mind continues much longer, and will take to
modelling, if I only knead dough.

I have commenced Charlotte's portrait three times, and have as often
disgraced myself. This is the more annoying, as I was formerly very
happy in taking likenesses. I have since sketched her profile, and must
content myself with that.

JULY 25.

Yes, dear Charlotte! I will order and arrange everything. Only give
me more commissions, the more the better. One thing, however, I must
request: use no more writing-sand with the dear notes you send me. Today
I raised your letter hastily to my lips, and it set my teeth on edge.

JULY 26.

I have often determined not to see her so frequently. But who could keep
such a resolution? Every day I am exposed to the temptation, and promise
faithfully that to-morrow I will really stay away: but, when tomorrow
comes, I find some irresistible reason for seeing her; and, before I can
account for it, I am with her again. Either she has said on the previous
evening "You will be sure to call to-morrow,"--and who could stay away
then?--or she gives me some commission, and I find it essential to take
her the answer in person; or the day is fine, and I walk to Walheim;
and, when I am there, it is only half a league farther to her. I am
within the charmed atmosphere, and soon find myself at her side. My
grandmother used to tell us a story of a mountain of loadstone. When any
vessels came near it, they were instantly deprived of their ironwork:
the nails flew to the mountain, and the unhappy crew perished amidst the
disjointed planks.

JULY 30.

Albert is arrived, and I must take my departure. Were he the best and
noblest of men, and I in every respect his inferior, I could not endure
to see him in possession of such a perfect being. Possession!--enough,
Wilhelm: her betrothed is here,--a fine, worthy fellow, whom one cannot
help liking. Fortunately I was not present at their meeting. It would
have broken my heart! And he is so considerate: he has not given
Charlotte one kiss in my presence. Heaven reward him for it! I must love
him for the respect with which he treats her. He shows a regard for me,
but for this I suspect I am more indebted to Charlotte than to his own
fancy for me. Women have a delicate tact in such matters, and it should
be so. They cannot always succeed in keeping two rivals on terms with
each other; but, when they do, they are the only gainers.

I cannot help esteeming Albert. The coolness of his temper contrasts
strongly with the impetuosity of mine, which I cannot conceal. He has
a great deal of feeling, and is fully sensible of the treasure he
possesses in Charlotte. He is free from ill-humour, which you know is
the fault I detest most.

He regards me as a man of sense; and my attachment to Charlotte, and the
interest I take in all that concerns her, augment his triumph and his
love. I shall not inquire whether he may not at times tease her with
some little jealousies; as I know, that, were I in his place, I should
not be entirely free from such sensations.

But, be that as it may, my pleasure with Charlotte is over. Call it
folly or infatuation, what signifies a name? The thing speaks for
itself. Before Albert came, I knew all that I know now. I knew I could
make no pretensions to her, nor did I offer any, that is, as far as it
was possible, in the presence of so much loveliness, not to pant for
its enjoyment. And now, behold me like a silly fellow, staring with
astonishment when another comes in, and deprives me of my love.

I bite my lips, and feel infinite scorn for those who tell me to be
resigned, because there is no help for it. Let me escape from the yoke
of such silly subterfuges! I ramble through the woods; and when I return
to Charlotte, and find Albert sitting by her side in the summer-house
in the garden, I am unable to bear it, behave like a fool, and commit a
thousand extravagances. "For Heaven's sake," said Charlotte today, "let
us have no more scenes like those of last night! You terrify me when you
are so violent." Between ourselves, I am always away now when he visits
her: and I feel delighted when I find her alone.

AUGUST 8.

Believe me, dear Wilhelm, I did not allude to you when I spoke so
severely of those who advise resignation to inevitable fate. I did not
think it possible for you to indulge such a sentiment. But in fact you
are right. I only suggest one objection. In this world one is seldom
reduced to make a selection between two alternatives. There are as many
varieties of conduct and opinion as there are turns of feature between
an aquiline nose and a flat one.

You will, therefore, permit me to concede your entire argument, and yet
contrive means to escape your dilemma.

Your position is this, I hear you say: "Either you have hopes of
obtaining Charlotte, or you have none. Well, in the first case, pursue
your course, and press on to the fulfilment of your wishes. In the
second, be a man, and shake off a miserable passion, which will enervate
and destroy you." My dear friend, this is well and easily said.

But would you require a wretched being, whose life is slowly wasting
under a lingering disease, to despatch himself at once by the stroke of
a dagger? Does not the very disorder which consumes his strength deprive
him of the courage to effect his deliverance?

You may answer me, if you please, with a similar analogy, "Who would
not prefer the amputation of an arm to the periling of life by doubt and
procrastination!" But I know not if I am right, and let us leave these
comparisons.

Enough! There are moments, Wilhelm, when I could rise up and shake it
all off, and when, if I only knew where to go, I could fly from this
place.

THE SAME EVENING.

My diary, which I have for some time neglected, came before me today;
and I am amazed to see how deliberately I have entangled myself step by
step. To have seen my position so clearly, and yet to have acted so like
a child! Even still I behold the result plainly, and yet have no thought
of acting with greater prudence.

AUGUST 10.

If I were not a fool, I could spend the happiest and most delightful
life here. So many agreeable circumstances, and of a kind to ensure
a worthy man's happiness, are seldom united. Alas! I feel it too
sensibly,--the heart alone makes our happiness! To be admitted into
this most charming family, to be loved by the father as a son, by the
children as a father, and by Charlotte! then the noble Albert, who never
disturbs my happiness by any appearance of ill-humour, receiving me with
the heartiest affection, and loving me, next to Charlotte, better
than all the world! Wilhelm, you would be delighted to hear us in our
rambles, and conversations about Charlotte. Nothing in the world can be
more absurd than our connection, and yet the thought of it often moves
me to tears.

He tells me sometimes of her excellent mother; how, upon her death-bed,
she had committed her house and children to Charlotte, and had given
Charlotte herself in charge to him; how, since that time, a new spirit
had taken possession of her; how, in care and anxiety for their welfare,
she became a real mother to them; how every moment of her time was
devoted to some labour of love in their behalf,--and yet her mirth and
cheerfulness had never forsaken her. I walk by his side, pluck flowers
by the way, arrange them carefully into a nosegay, then fling them into
the first stream I pass, and watch them as they float gently away. I
forget whether I told you that Albert is to remain here. He has received
a government appointment, with a very good salary; and I understand
he is in high favour at court. I have met few persons so punctual and
methodical in business.

AUGUST 12.

Certainly Albert is the best fellow in the world. I had a strange scene
with him yesterday. I went to take leave of him; for I took it into my
head to spend a few days in these mountains, from where I now write
to you. As I was walking up and down his room, my eye fell upon his
pistols. "Lend me those pistols," said I, "for my journey." "By all
means," he replied, "if you will take the trouble to load them; for they
only hang there for form." I took down one of them; and he continued,
"Ever since I was near suffering for my extreme caution, I will have
nothing to do with such things." I was curious to hear the story. "I was
staying," said he, "some three months ago, at a friend's house in the
country. I had a brace of pistols with me, unloaded; and I slept without
any anxiety. One rainy afternoon I was sitting by myself, doing nothing,
when it occurred to me I do not know how that the house might be
attacked, that we might require the pistols, that we might in short, you
know how we go on fancying, when we have nothing better to do. I gave
the pistols to the servant, to clean and load. He was playing with the
maid, and trying to frighten her, when the pistol went off--God knows
how!--the ramrod was in the barrel; and it went straight through
her right hand, and shattered the thumb. I had to endure all the
lamentation, and to pay the surgeon's bill; so, since that time, I have
kept all my weapons unloaded. But, my dear friend, what is the use of
prudence? We can never be on our guard against all possible dangers.
However,"--now, you must know I can tolerate all men till they come to
"however;"--for it is self-evident that every universal rule must have
its exceptions. But he is so exceedingly accurate, that, if he only
fancies he has said a word too precipitate, or too general, or only half
true, he never ceases to qualify, to modify, and extenuate, till at last
he appears to have said nothing at all. Upon this occasion, Albert was
deeply immersed in his subject: I ceased to listen to him, and became
lost in reverie. With a sudden motion, I pointed the mouth of the pistol
to my forehead, over the right eye. "What do you mean?" cried Albert,
turning back the pistol. "It is not loaded," said I. "And even if not,"
he answered with impatience, "what can you mean? I cannot comprehend how
a man can be so mad as to shoot himself, and the bare idea of it shocks
me."

"But why should any one," said I, "in speaking of an action, venture
to pronounce it mad or wise, or good or bad? What is the meaning of all
this? Have you carefully studied the secret motives of our actions? Do
you understand--can you explain the causes which occasion them, and make
them inevitable? If you can, you will be less hasty with your decision."

"But you will allow," said Albert; "that some actions are criminal, let
them spring from whatever motives they may." I granted it, and shrugged
my shoulders.

"But still, my good friend," I continued, "there are some exceptions
here too. Theft is a crime; but the man who commits it from extreme
poverty, with no design but to save his family from perishing, is he an
object of pity, or of punishment? Who shall throw the first stone at a
husband, who, in the heat of just resentment, sacrifices his faithless
wife and her perfidious seducer? or at the young maiden, who, in her
weak hour of rapture, forgets herself in the impetuous joys of love?
Even our laws, cold and cruel as they are, relent in such cases, and
withhold their punishment."

"That is quite another thing," said Albert; "because a man under the
influence of violent passion loses all power of reflection, and is
regarded as intoxicated or insane."

"Oh! you people of sound understandings," I replied, smiling, "are ever
ready to exclaim 'Extravagance, and madness, and intoxication!' You
moral men are so calm and so subdued! You abhor the drunken man, and
detest the extravagant; you pass by, like the Levite, and thank God,
like the Pharisee, that you are not like one of them. I have been more
than once intoxicated, my passions have always bordered on extravagance:
I am not ashamed to confess it; for I have learned, by my own
experience, that all extraordinary men, who have accomplished great and
astonishing actions, have ever been decried by the world as drunken or
insane. And in private life, too, is it not intolerable that no one can
undertake the execution of a noble or generous deed, without giving rise
to the exclamation that the doer is intoxicated or mad? Shame upon you,
ye sages!"

"This is another of your extravagant humours," said Albert: "you always
exaggerate a case, and in this matter you are undoubtedly wrong; for we
were speaking of suicide, which you compare with great actions, when it
is impossible to regard it as anything but a weakness. It is much easier
to die than to bear a life of misery with fortitude."

I was on the point of breaking off the conversation, for nothing puts me
so completely out of patience as the utterance of a wretched commonplace
when I am talking from my inmost heart. However, I composed myself, for
I had often heard the same observation with sufficient vexation; and
I answered him, therefore, with a little warmth, "You call this a
weakness--beware of being led astray by appearances. When a nation,
which has long groaned under the intolerable yoke of a tyrant, rises at
last and throws off its chains, do you call that weakness? The man
who, to rescue his house from the flames, finds his physical strength
redoubled, so that he lifts burdens with ease, which, in the absence of
excitement, he could scarcely move; he who, under the rage of an insult,
attacks and puts to flight half a score of his enemies, are such persons
to be called weak? My good friend, if resistance be strength, how can
the highest degree of resistance be a weakness?"

Albert looked steadfastly at me, and said, "Pray forgive me, but I do
not see that the examples you have adduced bear any relation to the
question." "Very likely," I answered; "for I have often been told that
my style of illustration borders a little on the absurd. But let us see
if we cannot place the matter in another point of view, by inquiring
what can be a man's state of mind who resolves to free himself from
the burden of life,--a burden often so pleasant to bear,--for we cannot
otherwise reason fairly upon the subject.

"Human nature," I continued, "has its limits. It is able to endure a
certain degree of joy, sorrow, and pain, but becomes annihilated as soon
as this measure is exceeded. The question, therefore, is, not whether a
man is strong or weak, but whether he is able to endure the measure
of his sufferings. The suffering may be moral or physical; and in
my opinion it is just as absurd to call a man a coward who destroys
himself, as to call a man a coward who dies of a malignant fever."

"Paradox, all paradox!" exclaimed Albert. "Not so paradoxical as you
imagine," I replied. "You allow that we designate a disease as mortal
when nature is so severely attacked, and her strength so far exhausted,
that she cannot possibly recover her former condition under any change
that may take place.

"Now, my good friend, apply this to the mind; observe a man in
his natural, isolated condition; consider how ideas work, and how
impressions fasten on him, till at length a violent passion seizes him,
destroying all his powers of calm reflection, and utterly ruining him.

"It is in vain that a man of sound mind and cool temper understands the
condition of such a wretched being, in vain he counsels him. He can no
more communicate his own wisdom to him than a healthy man can instil his
strength into the invalid, by whose bedside he is seated."

Albert thought this too general. I reminded him of a girl who had
drowned herself a short time previously, and I related her history.

She was a good creature, who had grown up in the narrow sphere of
household industry and weekly appointed labour; one who knew no pleasure
beyond indulging in a walk on Sundays, arrayed in her best attire,
accompanied by her friends, or perhaps joining in the dance now and then
at some festival, and chatting away her spare hours with a neighbour,
discussing the scandal or the quarrels of the village, trifles
sufficient to occupy her heart. At length the warmth of her nature is
influenced by certain new and unknown wishes. Inflamed by the flatteries
of men, her former pleasures become by degrees insipid, till at length
she meets with a youth to whom she is attracted by an indescribable
feeling; upon him she now rests all her hopes; she forgets the world
around her; she sees, hears, desires nothing but him, and him only. He
alone occupies all her thoughts. Uncorrupted by the idle indulgence of
an enervating vanity, her affection moving steadily toward its object,
she hopes to become his, and to realise, in an everlasting union with
him, all that happiness which she sought, all that bliss for which
she longed. His repeated promises confirm her hopes: embraces and
endearments, which increase the ardour of her desires, overmaster her
soul. She floats in a dim, delusive anticipation of her happiness; and
her feelings become excited to their utmost tension. She stretches out
her arms finally to embrace the object of all her wishes and her lover
forsakes her. Stunned and bewildered, she stands upon a precipice. All
is darkness around her. No prospect, no hope, no consolation--forsaken
by him in whom her existence was centred! She sees nothing of the wide
world before her, thinks nothing of the many individuals who might
supply the void in her heart; she feels herself deserted, forsaken by
the world; and, blinded and impelled by the agony which wrings her soul,
she plunges into the deep, to end her sufferings in the broad embrace of
death. See here, Albert, the history of thousands; and tell me, is not
this a case of physical infirmity? Nature has no way to escape from the
labyrinth: her powers are exhausted: she can contend no longer, and the
poor soul must die.

"Shame upon him who can look on calmly, and exclaim, 'The foolish girl!
she should have waited; she should have allowed time to wear off the
impression; her despair would have been softened, and she would have
found another lover to comfort her.' One might as well say, 'The fool,
to die of a fever! why did he not wait till his strength was restored,
till his blood became calm? all would then have gone well, and he would
have been alive now.'"

Albert, who could not see the justice of the comparison, offered some
further objections, and, amongst others, urged that I had taken the
case of a mere ignorant girl. But how any man of sense, of more enlarged
views and experience, could be excused, he was unable to comprehend. "My
friend!" I exclaimed, "man is but man; and, whatever be the extent
of his reasoning powers, they are of little avail when passion rages
within, and he feels himself confined by the narrow limits of nature.
It were better, then--but we will talk of this some other time," I said,
and caught up my hat. Alas! my heart was full; and we parted without
conviction on either side. How rarely in this world do men understand
each other!

AUGUST 15.

There can be no doubt that in this world nothing is so indispensable as
love. I observe that Charlotte could not lose me without a pang, and the
very children have but one wish; that is, that I should visit them again
to-morrow. I went this afternoon to tune Charlotte's piano. But I could
not do it, for the little ones insisted on my telling them a story; and
Charlotte herself urged me to satisfy them. I waited upon them at tea,
and they are now as fully contented with me as with Charlotte; and
I told them my very best tale of the princess who was waited upon by
dwarfs. I improve myself by this exercise, and am quite surprised at the
impression my stories create. If I sometimes invent an incident which I
forget upon the next narration, they remind one directly that the story
was different before; so that I now endeavour to relate with exactness
the same anecdote in the same monotonous tone, which never changes. I
find by this, how much an author injures his works by altering them,
even though they be improved in a poetical point of view. The first
impression is readily received. We are so constituted that we believe
the most incredible things; and, once they are engraved upon the memory,
woe to him who would endeavour to efface them.

AUGUST 18.

Must it ever be thus,--that the source of our happiness must also be the
fountain of our misery? The full and ardent sentiment which animated
my heart with the love of nature, overwhelming me with a torrent of
delight, and which brought all paradise before me, has now become an
insupportable torment, a demon which perpetually pursues and harasses
me. When in bygone days I gazed from these rocks upon yonder mountains
across the river, and upon the green, flowery valley before me, and saw
all nature budding and bursting around; the hills clothed from foot
to peak with tall, thick forest trees; the valleys in all their varied
windings, shaded with the loveliest woods; and the soft river gliding
along amongst the lisping reeds, mirroring the beautiful clouds which
the soft evening breeze wafted across the sky,--when I heard the groves
about me melodious with the music of birds, and saw the million swarms
of insects dancing in the last golden beams of the sun, whose setting
rays awoke the humming beetles from their grassy beds, whilst the
subdued tumult around directed my attention to the ground, and I there
observed the arid rock compelled to yield nutriment to the dry moss,
whilst the heath flourished upon the barren sands below me, all this
displayed to me the inner warmth which animates all nature, and filled
and glowed within my heart. I felt myself exalted by this overflowing
fulness to the perception of the Godhead, and the glorious forms of
an infinite universe became visible to my soul! Stupendous mountains
encompassed me, abysses yawned at my feet, and cataracts fell headlong
down before me; impetuous rivers rolled through the plain, and rocks
and mountains resounded from afar. In the depths of the earth I saw
innumerable powers in motion, and multiplying to infinity; whilst
upon its surface, and beneath the heavens, there teemed ten thousand
varieties of living creatures. Everything around is alive with an
infinite number of forms; while mankind fly for security to their petty
houses, from the shelter of which they rule in their imaginations over
the wide-extended universe. Poor fool! in whose petty estimation all
things are little. From the inaccessible mountains, across the desert
which no mortal foot has trod, far as the confines of the unknown ocean,
breathes the spirit of the eternal Creator; and every atom to which he
has given existence finds favour in his sight. Ah, how often at that
time has the flight of a bird, soaring above my head, inspired me
with the desire of being transported to the shores of the immeasurable
waters, there to quaff the pleasures of life from the foaming goblet
of the Infinite, and to partake, if but for a moment even, with
the confined powers of my soul, the beatitude of that Creator who
accomplishes all things in himself, and through himself!

My dear friend, the bare recollection of those hours still consoles me.
Even this effort to recall those ineffable sensations, and give them
utterance, exalts my soul above itself, and makes me doubly feel the
intensity of my present anguish.

It is as if a curtain had been drawn from before my eyes, and, instead
of prospects of eternal life, the abyss of an ever open grave yawned
before me. Can we say of anything that it exists when all passes away,
when time, with the speed of a storm, carries all things onward,--and
our transitory existence, hurried along by the torrent, is either
swallowed up by the waves or dashed against the rocks? There is not a
moment but preys upon you,--and upon all around you, not a moment in
which you do not yourself become a destroyer. The most innocent walk
deprives of life thousands of poor insects: one step destroys the fabric
of the industrious ant, and converts a little world into chaos. No:
it is not the great and rare calamities of the world, the floods which
sweep away whole villages, the earthquakes which swallow up our towns,
that affect me. My heart is wasted by the thought of that destructive
power which lies concealed in every part of universal nature. Nature has
formed nothing that does not consume itself, and every object near
it: so that, surrounded by earth and air, and all the active powers, I
wander on my way with aching heart; and the universe is to me a fearful
monster, for ever devouring its own offspring.

AUGUST 21.

In vain do I stretch out my arms toward her when I awaken in the morning
from my weary slumbers. In vain do I seek for her at night in my bed,
when some innocent dream has happily deceived me, and placed her near me
in the fields, when I have seized her hand and covered it with countless
kisses. And when I feel for her in the half confusion of sleep, with the
happy sense that she is near, tears flow from my oppressed heart; and,
bereft of all comfort, I weep over my future woes.

AUGUST 22.

What a misfortune, Wilhelm! My active spirits have degenerated into
contented indolence. I cannot be idle, and yet I am unable to set to
work. I cannot think: I have no longer any feeling for the beauties of
nature, and books are distasteful to me. Once we give ourselves up, we
are totally lost. Many a time and oft I wish I were a common labourer;
that, awakening in the morning, I might have but one prospect, one
pursuit, one hope, for the day which has dawned. I often envy Albert
when I see him buried in a heap of papers and parchments, and I fancy I
should be happy were I in his place. Often impressed with this feeling
I have been on the point of writing to you and to the minister, for the
appointment at the embassy, which you think I might obtain. I believe I
might procure it. The minister has long shown a regard for me, and has
frequently urged me to seek employment. It is the business of an
hour only. Now and then the fable of the horse recurs to me. Weary of
liberty, he suffered himself to be saddled and bridled, and was ridden
to death for his pains. I know not what to determine upon. For is not
this anxiety for change the consequence of that restless spirit which
would pursue me equally in every situation of life?

AUGUST 28.

If my ills would admit of any cure, they would certainly be cured here.
This is my birthday, and early in the morning I received a packet from
Albert. Upon opening it, I found one of the pink ribbons which Charlotte
wore in her dress the first time I saw her, and which I had several
times asked her to give me. With it were two volumes in duodecimo
of Wetstein's "Homer," a book I had often wished for, to save me the
inconvenience of carrying the large Ernestine edition with me upon my
walks. You see how they anticipate my wishes, how well they understand
all those little attentions of friendship, so superior to the costly
presents of the great, which are humiliating. I kissed the ribbon a
thousand times, and in every breath inhaled the remembrance of those
happy and irrevocable days which filled me with the keenest joy. Such,
Wilhelm, is our fate. I do not murmur at it: the flowers of life are but
visionary. How many pass away, and leave no trace behind--how few yield
any fruit--and the fruit itself, how rarely does it ripen! And yet there
are flowers enough! and is it not strange, my friend, that we should
suffer the little that does really ripen, to rot, decay, and perish
unenjoyed? Farewell! This is a glorious summer. I often climb into the
trees in Charlotte's orchard, and shake down the pears that hang on the
highest branches. She stands below, and catches them as they fall.

AUGUST 30.

Unhappy being that I am! Why do I thus deceive myself? What is to come
of all this wild, aimless, endless passion? I cannot pray except to her.
My imagination sees nothing but her: all surrounding objects are of no
account, except as they relate to her. In this dreamy state I enjoy many
happy hours, till at length I feel compelled to tear myself away from
her. Ah, Wilhelm, to what does not my heart often compel me! When I have
spent several hours in her company, till I feel completely absorbed by
her figure, her grace, the divine expression of her thoughts, my mind
becomes gradually excited to the highest excess, my sight grows dim,
my hearing confused, my breathing oppressed as if by the hand of a
murderer, and my beating heart seeks to obtain relief for my aching
senses. I am sometimes unconscious whether I really exist. If in such
moments I find no sympathy, and Charlotte does not allow me to enjoy
the melancholy consolation of bathing her hand with my tears, I feel
compelled to tear myself from her, when I either wander through the
country, climb some precipitous cliff, or force a path through the
trackless thicket, where I am lacerated and torn by thorns and briers;
and thence I find relief. Sometimes I lie stretched on the ground,
overcome with fatigue and dying with thirst; sometimes, late in the
night, when the moon shines above me, I recline against an aged tree
in some sequestered forest, to rest my weary limbs, when, exhausted
and worn, I sleep till break of day. O Wilhelm! the hermit's cell, his
sackcloth, and girdle of thorns would be luxury and indulgence compared
with what I suffer. Adieu! I see no end to this wretchedness except the
grave.

SEPTEMBER 3.

I must away. Thank you, Wilhelm, for determining my wavering purpose.
For a whole fortnight I have thought of leaving her. I must away.
She has returned to town, and is at the house of a friend. And then,
Albert--yes, I must go.

SEPTEMBER 10.

Oh, what a night, Wilhelm! I can henceforth bear anything. I shall never
see her again. Oh, why cannot I fall on your neck, and, with floods of
tears and raptures, give utterance to all the passions which distract my
heart! Here I sit gasping for breath, and struggling to compose myself.
I wait for day, and at sunrise the horses are to be at the door.

And she is sleeping calmly, little suspecting that she has seen me for
the last time. I am free. I have had the courage, in an interview of
two hours' duration, not to betray my intention. And O Wilhelm, what a
conversation it was!

Albert had promised to come to Charlotte in the garden immediately
after supper. I was upon the terrace under the tall chestnut trees, and
watched the setting sun. I saw him sink for the last time beneath this
delightful valley and silent stream. I had often visited the same
spot with Charlotte, and witnessed that glorious sight; and now--I was
walking up and down the very avenue which was so dear to me. A secret
sympathy had frequently drawn me thither before I knew Charlotte; and
we were delighted when, in our early acquaintance, we discovered that we
each loved the same spot, which is indeed as romantic as any that ever
captivated the fancy of an artist.

From beneath the chestnut trees, there is an extensive view. But I
remember that I have mentioned all this in a former letter, and have
described the tall mass of beech trees at the end, and how the avenue
grows darker and darker as it winds its way among them, till it ends
in a gloomy recess, which has all the charm of a mysterious solitude. I
still remember the strange feeling of melancholy which came over me the
first time I entered that dark retreat, at bright midday. I felt some
secret foreboding that it would, one day, be to me the scene of some
happiness or misery.

I had spent half an hour struggling between the contending thoughts of
going and returning, when I heard them coming up the terrace. I ran to
meet them. I trembled as I took her hand, and kissed it. As we reached
the top of the terrace, the moon rose from behind the wooded hill. We
conversed on many subjects, and, without perceiving it, approached the
gloomy recess. Charlotte entered, and sat down. Albert seated himself
beside her. I did the same, but my agitation did not suffer me to remain
long seated. I got up, and stood before her, then walked backward and
forward, and sat down again. I was restless and miserable. Charlotte
drew our attention to the beautiful effect of the moonlight, which threw
a silver hue over the terrace in front of us, beyond the beech trees.
It was a glorious sight, and was rendered more striking by the darkness
which surrounded the spot where we were. We remained for some time
silent, when Charlotte observed, "Whenever I walk by moonlight, it
brings to my remembrance all my beloved and departed friends, and I
am filled with thoughts of death and futurity. We shall live again,
Werther!" she continued, with a firm but feeling voice; "but shall we
know one another again what do you think? what do you say?"

"Charlotte," I said, as I took her hand in mine, and my eyes filled with
tears, "we shall see each other again--here and hereafter we shall meet
again." I could say no more. Why, Wilhelm, should she put this question
to me, just at the moment when the fear of our cruel separation filled
my heart?

"And oh! do those departed ones know how we are employed here? do they
know when we are well and happy? do they know when we recall their
memories with the fondest love? In the silent hour of evening the shade
of my mother hovers around me; when seated in the midst of my children,
I see them assembled near me, as they used to assemble near her; and
then I raise my anxious eyes to heaven, and wish she could look down
upon us, and witness how I fulfil the promise I made to her in her last
moments, to be a mother to her children. With what emotion do I then
exclaim, 'Pardon, dearest of mothers, pardon me, if I do not adequately
supply your place! Alas! I do my utmost. They are clothed and fed; and,
still better, they are loved and educated. Could you but see, sweet
saint! the peace and harmony that dwells amongst us, you would glorify
God with the warmest feelings of gratitude, to whom, in your last hour,
you addressed such fervent prayers for our happiness.'" Thus did she
express herself; but O Wilhelm! who can do justice to her language? how
can cold and passionless words convey the heavenly expressions of the
spirit? Albert interrupted her gently. "This affects you too deeply,
my dear Charlotte. I know your soul dwells on such recollections with
intense delight; but I implore--" "O Albert!" she continued, "I am sure
you do not forget the evenings when we three used to sit at the little
round table, when papa was absent, and the little ones had retired. You
often had a good book with you, but seldom read it; the conversation of
that noble being was preferable to everything,--that beautiful,
bright, gentle, and yet ever-toiling woman. God alone knows how I have
supplicated with tears on my nightly couch, that I might be like her."

I threw myself at her feet, and, seizing her hand, bedewed it with
a thousand tears. "Charlotte!" I exclaimed, "God's blessing and your
mother's spirit are upon you." "Oh! that you had known her," she said,
with a warm pressure of the hand. "She was worthy of being known to
you." I thought I should have fainted: never had I received praise so
flattering. She continued, "And yet she was doomed to die in the flower
of her youth, when her youngest child was scarcely six months old. Her
illness was but short, but she was calm and resigned; and it was only
for her children, especially the youngest, that she felt unhappy. When
her end drew nigh, she bade me bring them to her. I obeyed. The younger
ones knew nothing of their approaching loss, while the elder ones were
quite overcome with grief. They stood around the bed; and she raised
her feeble hands to heaven, and prayed over them; then, kissing them in
turn, she dismissed them, and said to me, 'Be you a mother to them.'
I gave her my hand. 'You are promising much, my child,' she said: 'a
mother's fondness and a mother's care! I have often witnessed, by your
tears of gratitude, that you know what is a mother's tenderness: show it
to your brothers and sisters, and be dutiful and faithful to your
father as a wife; you will be his comfort.' She inquired for him. He
had retired to conceal his intolerable anguish,--he was heartbroken,
'Albert, you were in the room.' She heard some one moving: she inquired
who it was, and desired you to approach. She surveyed us both with a
look of composure and satisfaction, expressive of her conviction that
we should be happy,--happy with one another." Albert fell upon her neck,
and kissed her, and exclaimed, "We are so, and we shall be so!" Even
Albert, generally so tranquil, had quite lost his composure; and I was
excited beyond expression.

"And such a being," She continued, "was to leave us, Werther! Great God,
must we thus part with everything we hold dear in this world? Nobody
felt this more acutely than the children: they cried and lamented for
a long time afterward, complaining that men had carried away their dear
mamma."

Charlotte rose. It aroused me; but I continued sitting, and held her
hand. "Let us go," she said: "it grows late." She attempted to withdraw
her hand: I held it still. "We shall see each other again," I exclaimed:
"we shall recognise each other under every possible change! I am going,"
I continued, "going willingly; but, should I say for ever, perhaps I may
not keep my word. Adieu, Charlotte; adieu, Albert. We shall meet again."
"Yes: tomorrow, I think," she answered with a smile. Tomorrow! how I
felt the word! Ah! she little thought, when she drew her hand away from
mine. They walked down the avenue. I stood gazing after them in the
moonlight. I threw myself upon the ground, and wept: I then sprang
up, and ran out upon the terrace, and saw, under the shade of the
linden-trees, her white dress disappearing near the garden-gate. I
stretched out my arms, and she vanished.




BOOK II.

OCTOBER 20.

We arrived here yesterday. The ambassador is indisposed, and will not
go out for some days. If he were less peevish and morose, all would
be well. I see but too plainly that Heaven has destined me to severe
trials; but courage! a light heart may bear anything. A light heart!
I smile to find such a word proceeding from my pen. A little more
lightheartedness would render me the happiest being under the sun.
But must I despair of my talents and faculties, whilst others of far
inferior abilities parade before me with the utmost self-satisfaction?
Gracious Providence, to whom I owe all my powers, why didst thou not
withhold some of those blessings I possess, and substitute in their
place a feeling of self-confidence and contentment?

But patience! all will yet be well; for I assure you, my dear friend,
you were right: since I have been obliged to associate continually with
other people, and observe what they do, and how they employ themselves,
I have become far better satisfied with myself. For we are so
constituted by nature, that we are ever prone to compare ourselves with
others; and our happiness or misery depends very much on the objects
and persons around us. On this account, nothing is more dangerous than
solitude: there our imagination, always disposed to rise, taking a new
flight on the wings of fancy, pictures to us a chain of beings of whom
we seem the most inferior. All things appear greater than they really
are, and all seem superior to us. This operation of the mind is quite
natural: we so continually feel our own imperfections, and fancy we
perceive in others the qualities we do not possess, attributing to them
also all that we enjoy ourselves, that by this process we form the idea
of a perfect, happy man,--a man, however, who only exists in our own
imagination.

But when, in spite of weakness and disappointments, we set to work in
earnest, and persevere steadily, we often find, that, though obliged
continually to tack, we make more way than others who have the
assistance of wind and tide; and, in truth, there can be no greater
satisfaction than to keep pace with others or outstrip them in the race.

November 26.

I begin to find my situation here more tolerable, considering all
circumstances. I find a great advantage in being much occupied; and the
number of persons I meet, and their different pursuits, create a varied
entertainment for me. I have formed the acquaintance of the Count
C--and I esteem him more and more every day. He is a man of strong
understanding and great discernment; but, though he sees farther than
other people, he is not on that account cold in his manner, but capable
of inspiring and returning the warmest affection. He appeared interested
in me on one occasion, when I had to transact some business with him. He
perceived, at the first word, that we understood each other, and that
he could converse with me in a different tone from what he used with
others. I cannot sufficiently esteem his frank and open kindness to me.
It is the greatest and most genuine of pleasures to observe a great mind
in sympathy with our own.

DECEMBER 24.

As I anticipated, the ambassador occasions me infinite annoyance. He is
the most punctilious blockhead under heaven. He does everything step by
step, with the trifling minuteness of an old woman; and he is a man whom
it is impossible to please, because he is never pleased with himself. I
like to do business regularly and cheerfully, and, when it is finished,
to leave it. But he constantly returns my papers to me, saying, "They
will do," but recommending me to look over them again, as "one may
always improve by using a better word or a more appropriate particle."
I then lose all patience, and wish myself at the devil's. Not a
conjunction, not an adverb, must be omitted: he has a deadly antipathy
to all those transpositions of which I am so fond; and, if the music
of our periods is not tuned to the established, official key, he cannot
comprehend our meaning. It is deplorable to be connected with such a
fellow.

My acquaintance with the Count C--is the only compensation for such an
evil. He told me frankly, the other day, that he was much displeased
with the difficulties and delays of the ambassador; that people like him
are obstacles, both to themselves and to others. "But," added he, "one
must submit, like a traveller who has to ascend a mountain: if the
mountain was not there, the road would be both shorter and pleasanter;
but there it is, and he must get over it."

The old man perceives the count's partiality for me: this annoys him,
and, he seizes every opportunity to depreciate the count in my hearing.
I naturally defend him, and that only makes matters worse. Yesterday he
made me indignant, for he also alluded to me. "The count," he said, "is
a man of the world, and a good man of business: his style is good,
and he writes with facility; but, like other geniuses, he has no solid
learning." He looked at me with an expression that seemed to ask if I
felt the blow. But it did not produce the desired effect: I despise a
man who can think and act in such a manner. However, I made a stand, and
answered with not a little warmth. The count, I said, was a man entitled
to respect, alike for his character and his acquirements. I had never
met a person whose mind was stored with more useful and extensive
knowledge,--who had, in fact, mastered such an infinite variety of
subjects, and who yet retained all his activity for the details of
ordinary business. This was altogether beyond his comprehension; and I
took my leave, lest my anger should be too highly excited by some new
absurdity of his.

And you are to blame for all this, you who persuaded me to bend my
neck to this yoke by preaching a life of activity to me. If the man who
plants vegetables, and carries his corn to town on market-days, is not
more usefully employed than I am, then let me work ten years longer at
the galleys to which I am now chained.

Oh, the brilliant wretchedness, the weariness, that one is doomed
to witness among the silly people whom we meet in society here! The
ambition of rank! How they watch, how they toil, to gain precedence!
What poor and contemptible passions are displayed in their utter
nakedness! We have a woman here, for example, who never ceases to
entertain the company with accounts of her family and her estates. Any
stranger would consider her a silly being, whose head was turned by
her pretensions to rank and property; but she is in reality even
more ridiculous, the daughter of a mere magistrate's clerk from this
neighbourhood. I cannot understand how human beings can so debase
themselves.

Every day I observe more and more the folly of judging of others by
ourselves; and I have so much trouble with myself, and my own heart is
in such constant agitation, that I am well content to let others pursue
their own course, if they only allow me the same privilege.

What provokes me most is the unhappy extent to which distinctions of
rank are carried. I know perfectly well how necessary are inequalities
of condition, and I am sensible of the advantages I myself derive
therefrom; but I would not have these institutions prove a barrier to
the small chance of happiness which I may enjoy on this earth.

I have lately become acquainted with a Miss B--, a very agreeable girl,
who has retained her natural manners in the midst of artificial life.
Our first conversation pleased us both equally; and, at taking leave,
I requested permission to visit her. She consented in so obliging a
manner, that I waited with impatience for the arrival of the happy
moment. She is not a native of this place, but resides here with her
aunt. The countenance of the old lady is not prepossessing. I paid her
much attention, addressing the greater part of my conversation to her;
and, in less than half an hour, I discovered what her niece subsequently
acknowledged to me, that her aged aunt, having but a small fortune, and
a still smaller share of understanding, enjoys no satisfaction except
in the pedigree of her ancestors, no protection save in her noble birth,
and no enjoyment but in looking from her castle over the heads of the
humble citizens. She was, no doubt, handsome in her youth, and in her
early years probably trifled away her time in rendering many a poor
youth the sport of her caprice: in her riper years she has submitted
to the yoke of a veteran officer, who, in return for her person and her
small independence, has spent with her what we may designate her age of
brass. He is dead; and she is now a widow, and deserted. She spends her
iron age alone, and would not be approached, except for the loveliness
of her niece.

JANUARY 8, 1772.

What beings are men, whose whole thoughts are occupied with form and
ceremony, who for years together devote their mental and physical
exertions to the task of advancing themselves but one step, and
endeavouring to occupy a higher place at the table. Not that such
persons would otherwise want employment: on the contrary, they give
themselves much trouble by neglecting important business for such petty
trifles. Last week a question of precedence arose at a sledging-party,
and all our amusement was spoiled.

The silly creatures cannot see that it is not place which constitutes
real greatness, since the man who occupies the first place but
seldom plays the principal part. How many kings are governed by their
ministers--how many ministers by their secretaries? Who, in such cases,
is really the chief? He, as it seems to me, who can see through the
others, and possesses strength or skill enough to make their power or
passions subservient to the execution of his own designs.

JANUARY 20.

I must write to you from this place, my dear Charlotte, from a small
room in a country inn, where I have taken shelter from a severe storm.
During my whole residence in that wretched place D--, where I lived
amongst strangers,--strangers, indeed, to this heart,--I never at any
time felt the smallest inclination to correspond with you; but in this
cottage, in this retirement, in this solitude, with the snow and hail
beating against my lattice-pane, you are my first thought. The instant
I entered, your figure rose up before me, and the remembrance! O my
Charlotte, the sacred, tender remembrance! Gracious Heaven! restore to
me the happy moment of our first acquaintance.

Could you but see me, my dear Charlotte, in the whirl of
dissipation,--how my senses are dried up, but my heart is at no time
full. I enjoy no single moment of happiness: all is vain--nothing
touches me. I stand, as it were, before the raree-show: I see the little
puppets move, and I ask whether it is not an optical illusion. I am
amused with these puppets, or, rather, I am myself one of them: but,
when I sometimes grasp my neighbour's hand, I feel that it is not
natural; and I withdraw mine with a shudder. In the evening I say I will
enjoy the next morning's sunrise, and yet I remain in bed: in the day I
promise to ramble by moonlight; and I, nevertheless, remain at home. I
know not why I rise, nor why I go to sleep.

The leaven which animated my existence is gone: the charm which cheered
me in the gloom of night, and aroused me from my morning slumbers, is
for ever fled.

I have found but one being here to interest me, a Miss B--. She
resembles you, my dear Charlotte, if any one can possibly resemble you.
"Ah!" you will say, "he has learned how to pay fine compliments." And
this is partly true. I have been very agreeable lately, as it was not
in my power to be otherwise. I have, moreover, a deal of wit: and the
ladies say that no one understands flattery better, or falsehoods you
will add; since the one accomplishment invariably accompanies the
other. But I must tell you of Miss B--. She has abundance of soul,
which flashes from her deep blue eyes. Her rank is a torment to her, and
satisfies no one desire of her heart. She would gladly retire from
this whirl of fashion, and we often picture to ourselves a life of
undisturbed happiness in distant scenes of rural retirement: and then we
speak of you, my dear Charlotte; for she knows you, and renders homage
to your merits; but her homage is not exacted, but voluntary, she loves
you, and delights to hear you made the subject of conversation.

Oh, that I were sitting at your feet in your favourite little room, with
the dear children playing around us! If they became troublesome to you,
I would tell them some appalling goblin story; and they would crowd
round me with silent attention. The sun is setting in glory; his last
rays are shining on the snow, which covers the face of the country: the
storm is over, and I must return to my dungeon. Adieu!--Is Albert with
you? and what is he to you? God forgive the question.

FEBRUARY 8.

For a week past we have had the most wretched weather: but this to me
is a blessing; for, during my residence here, not a single fine day has
beamed from the heavens, but has been lost to me by the intrusion
of somebody. During the severity of rain, sleet, frost, and storm, I
congratulate myself that it cannot be worse indoors than abroad, nor
worse abroad than it is within doors; and so I become reconciled. When
the sun rises bright in the morning, and promises a glorious day, I
never omit to exclaim, "There, now, they have another blessing
from Heaven, which they will be sure to destroy: they spoil
everything,--health, fame, happiness, amusement; and they do this
generally through folly, ignorance, or imbecility, and always, according
to their own account, with the best intentions!" I could often
beseech them, on my bended knees, to be less resolved upon their own
destruction.

FEBRUARY 17.

I fear that my ambassador and I shall not continue much longer together.
He is really growing past endurance. He transacts his business in so
ridiculous a manner, that I am often compelled to contradict him, and do
things my own way; and then, of course, he thinks them very ill done. He
complained of me lately on this account at court; and the minister gave
me a reprimand,--a gentle one it is true, but still a reprimand. In
consequence of this, I was about to tender my resignation, when I
received a letter, to which I submitted with great respect, on
account of the high, noble, and generous spirit which dictated it. He
endeavoured to soothe my excessive sensibility, paid a tribute to my
extreme ideas of duty, of good example, and of perseverance in business,
as the fruit of my youthful ardour, an impulse which he did not seek
to destroy, but only to moderate, that it might have proper play and be
productive of good. So now I am at rest for another week, and no longer
at variance with myself. Content and peace of mind are valuable things:
I could wish, my dear friend, that these precious jewels were less
transitory.

FEBRUARY 20.

God bless you, my dear friends, and may he grant you that happiness
which he denies to me!

I thank you, Albert, for having deceived me. I waited for the news that
your wedding-day was fixed; and I intended on that day, with solemnity,
to take down Charlotte's profile from the wall, and to bury it with
some other papers I possess. You are now united, and her picture still
remains here. Well, let it remain! Why should it not? I know that I
am still one of your society, that I still occupy a place uninjured in
Charlotte's heart, that I hold the second place therein; and I intend
to keep it. Oh, I should become mad if she could forget! Albert, that
thought is hell! Farewell, Albert farewell, angel of heaven farewell,
Charlotte!

MARCH 15.

I have just had a sad adventure, which will drive me away from here. I
lose all patience!--Death!--It is not to be remedied; and you alone are
to blame, for you urged and impelled me to fill a post for which I was
by no means suited. I have now reason to be satisfied, and so have you!
But, that you may not again attribute this fatality to my impetuous
temper, I send you, my dear sir, a plain and simple narration of the
affair, as a mere chronicler of facts would describe it.

The Count of O--likes and distinguishes me. It is well known, and I have
mentioned this to you a hundred times. Yesterday I dined with him. It is
the day on which the nobility are accustomed to assemble at his house
in the evening. I never once thought of the assembly, nor that we
subalterns did not belong to such society. Well, I dined with the count;
and, after dinner, we adjourned to the large hall. We walked up and down
together: and I conversed with him, and with Colonel B--, who joined us;
and in this manner the hour for the assembly approached. God knows, I
was thinking of nothing, when who should enter but the honourable Lady
accompanied by her noble husband and their silly, scheming daughter,
with her small waist and flat neck; and, with disdainful looks and a
haughty air they passed me by. As I heartily detest the whole race,
I determined upon going away; and only waited till the count had
disengaged himself from their impertinent prattle, to take leave, when
the agreeable Miss B--came in. As I never meet her without experiencing
a heartfelt pleasure, I stayed and talked to her, leaning over the
back of her chair, and did not perceive, till after some time, that she
seemed a little confused, and ceased to answer me with her usual ease
of manner. I was struck with it. "Heavens!" I said to myself, "can she,
too, be like the rest?" I felt annoyed, and was about to withdraw; but I
remained, notwithstanding, forming excuses for her conduct, fancying she
did not mean it, and still hoping to receive some friendly recognition.
The rest of the company now arrived. There was the Baron F--, in an
entire suit that dated from the coronation of Francis I.; the Chancellor
N--, with his deaf wife; the shabbily-dressed I--, whose old-fashioned
coat bore evidence of modern repairs: this crowned the whole.
I conversed with some of my acquaintances, but they answered me
laconically. I was engaged in observing Miss B--, and did not notice
that the women were whispering at the end of the room, that the murmur
extended by degrees to the men, that Madame S--addressed the count with
much warmth (this was all related to me subsequently by Miss B--); till
at length the count came up to me, and took me to the window. "You know
our ridiculous customs," he said. "I perceive the company is rather
displeased at your being here. I would not on any account--" "I beg
your excellency's pardon!" I exclaimed. "I ought to have thought of
this before, but I know you will forgive this little inattention. I was
going," I added, "some time ago, but my evil genius detained me." And I
smiled and bowed, to take my leave. He shook me by the hand, in a manner
which expressed everything. I hastened at once from the illustrious
assembly, sprang into a carriage, and drove to M--. I contemplated the
setting sun from the top of the hill, and read that beautiful passage in
Homer, where Ulysses is entertained by the hospitable herdsmen. This was
indeed delightful.

I returned home to supper in the evening. But few persons were assembled
in the room. They had turned up a corner of the table-cloth, and were
playing at dice. The good-natured A--came in. He laid down his hat when
he saw me, approached me, and said in a low tone, "You have met with
a disagreeable adventure." "I!" I exclaimed. "The count obliged you to
withdraw from the assembly!" "Deuce take the assembly!" said I. "I was
very glad to be gone." "I am delighted," he added, "that you take it
so lightly. I am only sorry that it is already so much spoken of." The
circumstance then began to pain me. I fancied that every one who sat
down, and even looked at me, was thinking of this incident; and my heart
became embittered.

And now I could plunge a dagger into my bosom, when I hear myself
everywhere pitied, and observe the triumph of my enemies, who say that
this is always the case with vain persons, whose heads are turned with
conceit, who affect to despise forms and such petty, idle nonsense.

Say what you will of fortitude, but show me the man who can patiently
endure the laughter of fools, when they have obtained an advantage over
him. 'Tis only when their nonsense is without foundation that one can
suffer it without complaint.

March 16.

Everything conspires against me. I met Miss B--walking to-day. I could
not help joining her; and, when we were at a little distance from her
companions, I expressed my sense of her altered manner toward me. "O
Werther!" she said, in a tone of emotion, "you, who know my heart, how
could you so ill interpret my distress? What did I not suffer for you,
from the moment you entered the room! I foresaw it all, a hundred times
was I on the point of mentioning it to you. I knew that the S----s and
T----s, with their husbands, would quit the room, rather than remain in
your company. I knew that the count would not break with them: and
now so much is said about it." "How!" I exclaimed, and endeavoured to
conceal my emotion; for all that Adelin had mentioned to me yesterday
recurred to me painfully at that moment. "Oh, how much it has already
cost me!" said this amiable girl, while her eyes filled with tears.
I could scarcely contain myself, and was ready to throw myself at her
feet. "Explain yourself!" I cried. Tears flowed down her cheeks. I
became quite frantic. She wiped them away, without attempting to conceal
them. "You know my aunt," she continued; "she was present: and in
what light does she consider the affair! Last night, and this morning,
Werther, I was compelled to listen to a lecture upon my acquaintance
with you. I have been obliged to hear you condemned and depreciated; and
I could not--I dared not--say much in your defence."

Every word she uttered was a dagger to my heart. She did not feel what a
mercy it would have been to conceal everything from me. She told me, in
addition, all the impertinence that would be further circulated, and how
the malicious would triumph; how they would rejoice over the punishment
of my pride, over my humiliation for that want of esteem for others with
which I had often been reproached. To hear all this, Wilhelm, uttered by
her in a voice of the most sincere sympathy, awakened all my passions;
and I am still in a state of extreme excitement. I wish I could find a
man to jeer me about this event. I would sacrifice him to my resentment.
The sight of his blood might possibly be a relief to my fury. A hundred
times have I seized a dagger, to give ease to this oppressed heart.
Naturalists tell of a noble race of horses that instinctively open a
vein with their teeth, when heated and exhausted by a long course, in
order to breathe more freely. I am often tempted to open a vein, to
procure for myself everlasting liberty.

MARCH 24.

I have tendered my resignation to the court. I hope it will be accepted,
and you will forgive me for not having previously consulted you. It
is necessary I should leave this place. I know all you will urge me to
stay, and therefore I beg you will soften this news to my mother. I am
unable to do anything for myself: how, then, should I be competent to
assist others? It will afflict her that I should have interrupted that
career which would have made me first a privy councillor, and then
minister, and that I should look behind me, in place of advancing. Argue
as you will, combine all the reasons which should have induced me
to remain, I am going: that is sufficient. But, that you may not be
ignorant of my destination, I may mention that the Prince of--is here.
He is much pleased with my company; and, having heard of my intention
to resign, he has invited me to his country house, to pass the spring
months with him. I shall be left completely my own master; and, as we
agree on all subjects but one, I shall try my fortune, and accompany
him.

APRIL 19.

Thanks for both your letters. I delayed my reply, and withheld this
letter, till I should obtain an answer from the court. I feared my
mother might apply to the minister to defeat my purpose. But my request
is granted, my resignation is accepted. I shall not recount with what
reluctance it was accorded, nor relate what the minister has written:
you would only renew your lamentations. The crown prince has sent me
a present of five and twenty ducats; and, indeed, such goodness has
affected me to tears. For this reason I shall not require from my mother
the money for which I lately applied.

MAY 5.

I leave this place to-morrow; and, as my native place is only six miles
from the high road, I intend to visit it once more, and recall the happy
dreams of my childhood. I shall enter at the same gate through which
I came with my mother, when, after my father's death, she left that
delightful retreat to immure herself in your melancholy town. Adieu, my
dear friend: you shall hear of my future career.

MAY 9.

I have paid my visit to my native place with all the devotion of a
pilgrim, and have experienced many unexpected emotions. Near the great
elm tree, which is a quarter of a league from the village, I got out of
the carriage, and sent it on before, that alone, and on foot, I might
enjoy vividly and heartily all the pleasure of my recollections. I stood
there under that same elm which was formerly the term and object of my
walks. How things have since changed! Then, in happy ignorance, I sighed
for a world I did not know, where I hoped to find every pleasure and
enjoyment which my heart could desire; and now, on my return from that
wide world, O my friend, how many disappointed hopes and unsuccessful
plans have I brought back!

As I contemplated the mountains which lay stretched out before me, I
thought how often they had been the object of my dearest desires. Here
used I to sit for hours together with my eyes bent upon them, ardently
longing to wander in the shade of those woods, to lose myself in those
valleys, which form so delightful an object in the distance. With what
reluctance did I leave this charming spot; when my hour of recreation
was over, and my leave of absence expired! I drew near to the village:
all the well-known old summerhouses and gardens were recognised again; I
disliked the new ones, and all other alterations which had taken place.
I entered the village, and all my former feelings returned. I cannot,
my dear friend, enter into details, charming as were my sensations:
they would be dull in the narration. I had intended to lodge in the
market-place, near our old house. As soon as I entered, I perceived that
the schoolroom, where our childhood had been taught by that good old
woman, was converted into a shop. I called to mind the sorrow, the
heaviness, the tears, and oppression of heart, which I experienced in
that confinement. Every step produced some particular impression. A
pilgrim in the Holy Land does not meet so many spots pregnant with
tender recollections, and his soul is hardly moved with greater
devotion. One incident will serve for illustration. I followed the
course of a stream to a farm, formerly a delightful walk of mine, and
paused at the spot, where, when boys, we used to amuse ourselves making
ducks and drakes upon the water. I recollected so well how I used
formerly to watch the course of that same stream, following it with
inquiring eagerness, forming romantic ideas of the countries it was to
pass through; but my imagination was soon exhausted: while the
water continued flowing farther and farther on, till my fancy became
bewildered by the contemplation of an invisible distance. Exactly such,
my dear friend, so happy and so confined, were the thoughts of our good
ancestors. Their feelings and their poetry were fresh as childhood.
And, when Ulysses talks of the immeasurable sea and boundless earth,
his epithets are true, natural, deeply felt, and mysterious. Of what
importance is it that I have learned, with every schoolboy, that the
world is round? Man needs but little earth for enjoyment, and still less
for his final repose.

I am at present with the prince at his hunting lodge. He is a man with
whom one can live happily. He is honest and unaffected. There are,
however, some strange characters about him, whom I cannot at all
understand. They do not seem vicious, and yet they do not carry the
appearance of thoroughly honest men. Sometimes I am disposed to believe
them honest, and yet I cannot persuade myself to confide in them. It
grieves me to hear the prince occasionally talk of things which he has
only read or heard of, and always with the same view in which they have
been represented by others.

He values my understanding and talents more highly than my heart, but I
am proud of the latter only. It is the sole source of everything of our
strength, happiness, and misery. All the knowledge I possess every one
else can acquire, but my heart is exclusively my own.

MAY 25.

I have had a plan in my head of which I did not intend to speak to you
until it was accomplished: now that it has failed, I may as well mention
it. I wished to enter the army, and had long been desirous of taking
the step. This, indeed, was the chief reason for my coming here with the
prince, as he is a general in the service. I communicated my design to
him during one of our walks together. He disapproved of it, and it would
have been actual madness not to have listened to his reasons.

JUNE 11.

Say what you will, I can remain here no longer. Why should I remain?
Time hangs heavy upon my hands. The prince is as gracious to me as any
one could be, and yet I am not at my ease. There is, indeed, nothing
in common between us. He is a man of understanding, but quite of the
ordinary kind. His conversation affords me no more amusement than I
should derive from the perusal of a well-written book. I shall remain
here a week longer, and then start again on my travels. My drawings are
the best things I have done since I came here. The prince has a taste
for the arts, and would improve if his mind were not fettered by cold
rules and mere technical ideas. I often lose patience, when, with
a glowing imagination, I am giving expression to art and nature, he
interferes with learned suggestions, and uses at random the technical
phraseology of artists.

JULY 16.

Once more I am a wanderer, a pilgrim, through the world. But what else
are you!

JULY 18.

Whither am I going? I will tell you in confidence. I am obliged to
continue a fortnight longer here, and then I think it would be better
for me to visit the mines in--. But I am only deluding myself thus. The
fact is, I wish to be near Charlotte again, that is all. I smile at the
suggestions of my heart, and obey its dictates.

JULY 29.

No, no! it is yet well all is well! I her husband! O God, who gave me
being, if thou hadst destined this happiness for me, my whole life would
have been one continual thanksgiving! But I will not murmur--forgive
these tears, forgive these fruitless wishes. She--my wife! Oh, the very
thought of folding that dearest of Heaven's creatures in my arms! Dear
Wilhelm, my whole frame feels convulsed when I see Albert put his arms
around her slender waist!

And shall I avow it? Why should I not, Wilhelm? She would have been
happier with me than with him. Albert is not the man to satisfy the
wishes of such a heart. He wants a certain sensibility; he wants--in
short, their hearts do not beat in unison. How often, my dear friend,
I'm reading a passage from some interesting book, when my heart and
Charlotte's seemed to meet, and in a hundred other instances when our
sentiments were unfolded by the story of some fictitious character, have
I felt that we were made for each other! But, dear Wilhelm, he loves her
with his whole soul; and what does not such a love deserve?

I have been interrupted by an insufferable visit. I have dried my tears,
and composed my thoughts. Adieu, my best friend!

AUGUST 4.

I am not alone unfortunate. All men are disappointed in their hopes, and
deceived in their expectations. I have paid a visit to my good old woman
under the lime-trees. The eldest boy ran out to meet me: his exclamation
of joy brought out his mother, but she had a very melancholy look. Her
first word was, "Alas! dear sir, my little John is dead." He was the
youngest of her children. I was silent. "And my husband has returned
from Switzerland without any money; and, if some kind people had not
assisted him, he must have begged his way home. He was taken ill with
fever on his journey." I could answer nothing, but made the little one
a present. She invited me to take some fruit: I complied, and left the
place with a sorrowful heart.

AUGUST 21.

My sensations are constantly changing. Sometimes a happy prospect opens
before me; but alas! it is only for a moment; and then, when I am
lost in reverie, I cannot help saying to myself, "If Albert were
to die?--Yes, she would become--and I should be"--and so I pursue a
chimera, till it leads me to the edge of a precipice at which I shudder.

When I pass through the same gate, and walk along the same road which
first conducted me to Charlotte, my heart sinks within me at the change
that has since taken place. All, all, is altered! No sentiment, no
pulsation of my heart, is the same. My sensations are such as would
occur to some departed prince whose spirit should return to visit the
superb palace which he had built in happy times, adorned with costly
magnificence, and left to a beloved son, but whose glory he should find
departed, and its halls deserted and in ruins.

SEPTEMBER 3.

I sometimes cannot understand how she can love another, how she dares
love another, when I love nothing in this world so completely, so
devotedly, as I love her, when I know only her, and have no other
possession.

SEPTEMBER 4.

It is even so! As nature puts on her autumn tints it becomes autumn with
me and around me. My leaves are sere and yellow, and the neighbouring
trees are divested of their foliage. Do you remember my writing to you
about a peasant boy shortly after my arrival here? I have just made
inquiries about him in Walheim. They say he has been dismissed from his
service, and is now avoided by every one. I met him yesterday on the
road, going to a neighbouring village. I spoke to him, and he told me
his story. It interested me exceedingly, as you will easily understand
when I repeat it to you. But why should I trouble you? Why should I
not reserve all my sorrow for myself? Why should I continue to give you
occasion to pity and blame me? But no matter: this also is part of my
destiny.

At first the peasant lad answered my inquiries with a sort of subdued
melancholy, which seemed to me the mark of a timid disposition; but, as
we grew to understand each other, he spoke with less reserve, and openly
confessed his faults, and lamented his misfortune. I wish, my dear
friend, I could give proper expression to his language. He told me
with a sort of pleasurable recollection, that, after my departure, his
passion for his mistress increased daily, until at last he neither knew
what he did nor what he said, nor what was to become of him. He could
neither eat nor drink nor sleep: he felt a sense of suffocation; he
disobeyed all orders, and forgot all commands involuntarily; he seemed
as if pursued by an evil spirit, till one day, knowing that his mistress
had gone to an upper chamber, he had followed, or, rather, been drawn
after her. As she proved deaf to his entreaties, he had recourse to
violence. He knows not what happened; but he called God to witness that
his intentions to her were honourable, and that he desired nothing more
sincerely than that they should marry, and pass their lives together.
When he had come to this point, he began to hesitate, as if there
was something which he had not courage to utter, till at length he
acknowledged with some confusion certain little confidences she had
encouraged, and liberties she had allowed. He broke off two or three
times in his narration, and assured me most earnestly that he had
no wish to make her bad, as he termed it, for he loved her still as
sincerely as ever; that the tale had never before escaped his lips,
and was only now told to convince me that he was not utterly lost and
abandoned. And here, my dear friend, I must commence the old song which
you know I utter eternally. If I could only represent the man as he
stood, and stands now before me, could I only give his true expressions,
you would feel compelled to sympathise in his fate. But enough: you,
who know my misfortune and my disposition, can easily comprehend
the attraction which draws me toward every unfortunate being, but
particularly toward him whose story I have recounted.

On perusing this letter a second time, I find I have omitted the
conclusion of my tale; but it is easily supplied. She became reserved
toward him, at the instigation of her brother who had long hated him,
and desired his expulsion from the house, fearing that his sister's
second marriage might deprive his children of the handsome fortune they
expected from her; as she is childless. He was dismissed at length; and
the whole affair occasioned so much scandal, that the mistress dared not
take him back, even if she had wished it. She has since hired another
servant, with whom, they say, her brother is equally displeased, and
whom she is likely to marry; but my informant assures me that he himself
is determined not to survive such a catastrophe.

This story is neither exaggerated nor embellished: indeed, I have
weakened and impaired it in the narration, by the necessity of using the
more refined expressions of society.

This love, then, this constancy, this passion, is no poetical fiction.
It is actual, and dwells in its greatest purity amongst that class of
mankind whom we term rude, uneducated. We are the educated, not the
perverted. But read this story with attention, I implore you. I am
tranquil to-day, for I have been employed upon this narration: you see
by my writing that I am not so agitated as usual. I read and re-read
this tale, Wilhelm: it is the history of your friend! My fortune has
been and will be similar; and I am neither half so brave nor half so
determined as the poor wretch with whom I hesitate to compare myself.

SEPTEMBER 5.

Charlotte had written a letter to her husband in the country, where he
was detained by business. It commenced, "My dearest love, return as
soon as possible: I await you with a thousand raptures." A friend who
arrived, brought word, that, for certain reasons, he could not return
immediately. Charlotte's letter was not forwarded, and the same evening
it fell into my hands. I read it, and smiled. She asked the reason.
"What a heavenly treasure is imagination:" I exclaimed; "I fancied for a
moment that this was written to me." She paused, and seemed displeased.
I was silent.

SEPTEMBER 6.

It cost me much to part with the blue coat which I wore the first time I
danced with Charlotte. But I could not possibly wear it any longer.
But I have ordered a new one, precisely similar, even to the collar and
sleeves, as well as a new waistcoat and pantaloons.

But it does not produce the same effect upon me. I know not how it is,
but I hope in time I shall like it better.

SEPTEMBER 12.

She has been absent for some days. She went to meet Albert. To-day
I visited her: she rose to receive me, and I kissed her hand most
tenderly.

A canary at the moment flew from a mirror, and settled upon her
shoulder. "Here is a new friend," she observed, while she made him perch
upon her hand: "he is a present for the children. What a dear he is!
Look at him! When I feed him, he flutters with his wings, and pecks so
nicely. He kisses me, too, only look!"

She held the bird to her mouth; and he pressed her sweet lips with
so much fervour that he seemed to feel the excess of bliss which he
enjoyed.

"He shall kiss you too," she added; and then she held the bird toward
me. His little beak moved from her mouth to mine, and the delightful
sensation seemed like the forerunner of the sweetest bliss.

"A kiss," I observed, "does not seem to satisfy him: he wishes for food,
and seems disappointed by these unsatisfactory endearments."

"But he eats out of my mouth," she continued, and extended her lips to
him containing seed; and she smiled with all the charm of a being who
has allowed an innocent participation of her love.

I turned my face away. She should not act thus. She ought not to excite
my imagination with such displays of heavenly innocence and happiness,
nor awaken my heart from its slumbers, in which it dreams of the
worthlessness of life! And why not? Because she knows how much I love
her.

SEPTEMBER 15.

It makes me wretched, Wilhelm, to think that there should be men
incapable of appreciating the few things which possess a real value in
life. You remember the walnut trees at S--, under which I used to sit
with Charlotte, during my visits to the worthy old vicar. Those glorious
trees, the very sight of which has so often filled my heart with
joy, how they adorned and refreshed the parsonage yard, with their
wide-extended branches! and how pleasing was our remembrance of the
good old pastor, by whose hands they were planted so many years ago:
The schoolmaster has frequently mentioned his name. He had it from his
grandfather. He must have been a most excellent man; and, under the
shade of those old trees, his memory was ever venerated by me. The
schoolmaster informed us yesterday, with tears in his eyes, that those
trees had been felled. Yes, cut to the ground! I could, in my wrath,
have slain the monster who struck the first stroke. And I must endure
this!--I, who, if I had had two such trees in my own court, and one had
died from old age, should have wept with real affliction. But there is
some comfort left, such a thing is sentiment, the whole village murmurs
at the misfortune; and I hope the vicar's wife will soon find, by the
cessation of the villagers' presents, how much she has wounded the
feelings of the neighborhhood. It was she who did it, the wife of the
present incumbent (our good old man is dead), a tall, sickly creature
who is so far right to disregard the world, as the world totally
disregards her. The silly being affects to be learned, pretends to
examine the canonical books, lends her aid toward the new-fashioned
reformation of Christendom, moral and critical, and shrugs up her
shoulders at the mention of Lavater's enthusiasm. Her health is
destroyed, on account of which she is prevented from having any
enjoyment here below. Only such a creature could have cut down my walnut
trees! I can never pardon it. Hear her reasons. The falling leaves made
the court wet and dirty; the branches obstructed the light; boys threw
stones at the nuts when they were ripe, and the noise affected her
nerves; and disturbed her profound meditations, when she was weighing
the difficulties of Kennicot, Semler, and Michaelis. Finding that all
the parish, particularly the old people, were displeased, I asked "why
they allowed it?" "Ah, sir!" they replied, "when the steward orders,
what can we poor peasants do?" But one thing has happened well. The
steward and the vicar (who, for once, thought to reap some advantage
from the caprices of his wife) intended to divide the trees between
them. The revenue-office, being informed of it, revived an old claim to
the ground where the trees had stood, and sold them to the best bidder.
There they still lie on the ground. If I were the sovereign, I should
know how to deal with them all, vicar, steward, and revenue-office.
Sovereign, did I say? I should, in that case, care little about the
trees that grew in the country.

OCTOBER 10.

Only to gaze upon her dark eyes is to me a source of happiness! And
what grieves me, is, that Albert does not seem so happy as he--hoped to
be--as I should have been--if--I am no friend to these pauses, but here
I cannot express it otherwise; and probably I am explicit enough.

OCTOBER 12.

Ossian has superseded Homer in my heart. To what a world does the
illustrious bard carry me! To wander over pathless wilds, surrounded by
impetuous whirlwinds, where, by the feeble light of the moon, we see the
spirits of our ancestors; to hear from the mountain-tops, mid the roar
of torrents, their plaintive sounds issuing from deep caverns, and the
sorrowful lamentations of a maiden who sighs and expires on the mossy
tomb of the warrior by whom she was adored. I meet this bard with silver
hair; he wanders in the valley; he seeks the footsteps of his fathers,
and, alas! he finds only their tombs. Then, contemplating the pale moon,
as she sinks beneath the waves of the rolling sea, the memory of
bygone days strikes the mind of the hero, days when approaching danger
invigorated the brave, and the moon shone upon his bark laden with
spoils, and returning in triumph. When I read in his countenance deep
sorrow, when I see his dying glory sink exhausted into the grave, as he
inhales new and heart-thrilling delight from his approaching union with
his beloved, and he casts a look on the cold earth and the tall grass
which is so soon to cover him, and then exclaims, "The traveller will
come,--he will come who has seen my beauty, and he will ask, 'Where is
the bard, where is the illustrious son of Fingal?' He will walk over my
tomb, and will seek me in vain!" Then, O my friend, I could instantly,
like a true and noble knight, draw my sword, and deliver my prince from
the long and painful languor of a living death, and dismiss my own soul
to follow the demigod whom my hand had set free!

OCTOBER 19.

Alas! the void the fearful void, which I feel in my bosom! Sometimes
I think, if I could only once but once, press her to my heart, this
dreadful void would be filled.

OCTOBER 26.

Yes, I feel certain, Wilhelm, and every day I become more certain, that
the existence of any being whatever is of very little consequence. A
friend of Charlotte's called to see her just now. I withdrew into a
neighbouring apartment, and took up a book; but, finding I could not
read, I sat down to write. I heard them converse in an undertone: they
spoke upon indifferent topics, and retailed the news of the town. One
was going to be married; another was ill, very ill, she had a dry cough,
her face was growing thinner daily, and she had occasional fits. "N--is
very unwell too," said Charlotte. "His limbs begin to swell already,"
answered the other; and my lively imagination carried me at once to the
beds of the infirm. There I see them struggling against death, with all
the agonies of pain and horror; and these women, Wilhelm, talk of all
this with as much indifference as one would mention the death of a
stranger. And when I look around the apartment where I now am--when I
see Charlotte's apparel lying before me, and Albert's writings, and all
those articles of furniture which are so familiar to me, even to
the very inkstand which I am using,--when I think what I am to this
family--everything. My friends esteem me; I often contribute to their
happiness, and my heart seems as if it could not beat without them; and
yet---if I were to die, if I were to be summoned from the midst of this
circle, would they feel--or how long would they feel the void which my
loss would make in their existence? How long! Yes, such is the frailty
of man, that even there, where he has the greatest consciousness of his
own being, where he makes the strongest and most forcible impression,
even in the memory, in the heart, of his beloved, there also he must
perish,--vanish,--and that quickly.

OCTOBER 27.

I could tear open my bosom with vexation to think how little we
are capable of influencing the feelings of each other. No one can
communicate to me those sensations of love, joy, rapture, and delight
which I do not naturally possess; and, though my heart may glow with the
most lively affection, I cannot make the happiness of one in whom the
same warmth is not inherent.

OCTOBER 27: Evening.

I possess so much, but my love for her absorbs it all. I possess so
much, but without her I have nothing.

OCTOBER 30.

One hundred times have I been on the point of embracing her. Heavens!
what a torment it is to see so much loveliness passing and repassing
before us, and yet not dare to lay hold of it! And laying hold is the
most natural of human instincts. Do not children touch everything they
see? And I!

NOVEMBER 3.

Witness, Heaven, how often I lie down in my bed with a wish, and even a
hope, that I may never awaken again. And in the morning, when I open my
eyes, I behold the sun once more, and am wretched. If I were whimsical,
I might blame the weather, or an acquaintance, or some personal
disappointment, for my discontented mind; and then this insupportable
load of trouble would not rest entirely upon myself. But, alas! I feel
it too sadly. I am alone the cause of my own woe, am I not? Truly,
my own bosom contains the source of all my sorrow, as it previously
contained the source of all my pleasure. Am I not the same being who
once enjoyed an excess of happiness, who, at every step, saw paradise
open before him, and whose heart was ever expanded toward the whole
world? And this heart is now dead, no sentiment can revive it; my eyes
are dry; and my senses, no more refreshed by the influence of soft
tears, wither and consume my brain. I suffer much, for I have lost
the only charm of life: that active, sacred power which created worlds
around me,--it is no more. When I look from my window at the distant
hills, and behold the morning sun breaking through the mists, and
illuminating the country around, which is still wrapped in silence,
whilst the soft stream winds gently through the willows, which have shed
their leaves; when glorious nature displays all her beauties before me,
and her wondrous prospects are ineffectual to extract one tear of joy
from my withered heart, I feel that in such a moment I stand like a
reprobate before heaven, hardened, insensible, and unmoved. Oftentimes
do I then bend my knee to the earth, and implore God for the blessing
of tears, as the desponding labourer in some scorching climate prays for
the dews of heaven to moisten his parched corn.

But I feel that God does not grant sunshine or rain to our importunate
entreaties. And oh, those bygone days, whose memory now torments me!
why were they so fortunate? Because I then waited with patience for
the blessings of the Eternal, and received his gifts with the grateful
feelings of a thankful heart.

NOVEMBER 8.

Charlotte has reproved me for my excesses, with so much tenderness and
goodness! I have lately been in the habit of drinking more wine than
heretofore. "Don't do it," she said. "Think of Charlotte!" "Think of
you!" I answered; "need you bid me do so? Think of you--I do not think
of you: you are ever before my soul! This very morning I sat on the
spot where, a few days ago, you descended from the carriage, and--" She
immediately changed the subject to prevent me from pursuing it farther.
My dear friend, my energies are all prostrated: she can do with me what
she pleases.

NOVEMBER 15.

I thank you, Wilhelm, for your cordial sympathy, for your excellent
advice; and I implore you to be quiet. Leave me to my sufferings. In
spite of my wretchedness, I have still strength enough for endurance.
I revere religion--you know I do. I feel that it can impart strength
to the feeble and comfort to the afflicted, but does it affect all men
equally? Consider this vast universe: you will see thousands for whom it
has never existed, thousands for whom it will never exist, whether it be
preached to them, or not; and must it, then, necessarily exist for me?
Does not the Son of God himself say that they are his whom the Father
has given to him? Have I been given to him? What if the Father will
retain me for himself, as my heart sometimes suggests? I pray you, do
not misinterpret this. Do not extract derision from my harmless words. I
pour out my whole soul before you. Silence were otherwise preferable to
me, but I need not shrink from a subject of which few know more than I
do myself. What is the destiny of man, but to fill up the measure of
his sufferings, and to drink his allotted cup of bitterness? And if that
same cup proved bitter to the God of heaven, under a human form, why
should I affect a foolish pride, and call it sweet? Why should I be
ashamed of shrinking at that fearful moment, when my whole being will
tremble between existence and annihilation, when a remembrance of
the past, like a flash of lightning, will illuminate the dark gulf of
futurity, when everything shall dissolve around me, and the whole world
vanish away? Is not this the voice of a creature oppressed beyond all
resource, self-deficient, about to plunge into inevitable destruction,
and groaning deeply at its inadequate strength, "My God! my God! why
hast thou forsaken me?" And should I feel ashamed to utter the same
expression? Should I not shudder at a prospect which had its fears, even
for him who folds up the heavens like a garment?

NOVEMBER 21.

She does not feel, she does not know, that she is preparing a poison
which will destroy us both; and I drink deeply of the draught which is
to prove my destruction. What mean those looks of kindness with which
she often--often? no, not often, but sometimes, regards me, that
complacency with which she hears the involuntary sentiments which
frequently escape me, and the tender pity for my sufferings which
appears in her countenance?

Yesterday, when I took leave she seized me by the hand, and said,
"Adieu, dear Werther." Dear Werther! It was the first time she ever
called me dear: the sound sunk deep into my heart. I have repeated it a
hundred times; and last night, on going to bed, and talking to myself
of various things, I suddenly said, "Good night, dear Werther!" and then
could not but laugh at myself.

NOVEMBER 22

I cannot pray, "Leave her to me!" and yet she often seems to belong to
me. I cannot pray, "Give her to me!" for she is another's. In this way
I affect mirth over my troubles; and, if I had time, I could compose a
whole litany of antitheses.

NOVEMBER 24.

She is sensible of my sufferings. This morning her look pierced my very
soul. I found her alone, and she was silent: she steadfastly surveyed
me. I no longer saw in her face the charms of beauty or the fire of
genius: these had disappeared. But I was affected by an expression much
more touching, a look of the deepest sympathy and of the softest pity.
Why was I afraid to throw myself at her feet? Why did I not dare to take
her in my arms, and answer her by a thousand kisses? She had recourse to
her piano for relief, and in a low and sweet voice accompanied the music
with delicious sounds. Her lips never appeared so lovely: they seemed
but just to open, that they might imbibe the sweet tones which issued
from the instrument, and return the heavenly vibration from her lovely
mouth. Oh! who can express my sensations? I was quite overcome, and,
bending down, pronounced this vow: "Beautiful lips, which the angels
guard, never will I seek to profane your purity with a kiss." And
yet, my friend, oh, I wish--but my heart is darkened by doubt and
indecision--could I but taste felicity, and then die to expiate the sin!
What sin?

NOVEMBER 26.

Oftentimes I say to myself, "Thou alone art wretched: all other mortals
are happy, none are distressed like thee!" Then I read a passage in an
ancient poet, and I seem to understand my own heart. I have so much to
endure! Have men before me ever been so wretched?

NOVEMBER 30.

I shall never be myself again! Wherever I go, some fatality occurs to
distract me. Even to-day alas--for our destiny! alas for human nature!

About dinner-time I went to walk by the river-side, for I had no
appetite. Everything around seemed gloomy: a cold and damp easterly wind
blew from the mountains, and black, heavy clouds spread over the plain.
I observed at a distance a man in a tattered coat: he was wandering
among the rocks, and seemed to be looking for plants. When I approached,
he turned round at the noise; and I saw that he had an interesting
countenance in which a settled melancholy, strongly marked by
benevolence, formed the principal feature. His long black hair was
divided, and flowed over his shoulders. As his garb betokened a person
of the lower order, I thought he would not take it ill if I inquired
about his business; and I therefore asked what he was seeking. He
replied, with a deep sigh, that he was looking for flowers, and could
find none. "But it is not the season," I observed, with a smile. "Oh,
there are so many flowers!" he answered, as he came nearer to me. "In my
garden there are roses and honeysuckles of two sorts: one sort was
given to me by my father! they grow as plentifully as weeds; I have been
looking for them these two days, and cannot find them. There are flowers
out there, yellow, blue, and red; and that centaury has a very pretty
blossom: but I can find none of them." I observed his peculiarity, and
therefore asked him, with an air of indifference, what he intended to
do with his flowers. A strange smile overspread his countenance. Holding
his finger to his mouth, he expressed a hope that I would not betray
him; and he then informed me that he had promised to gather a nosegay
for his mistress. "That is right," said I. "Oh!" he replied, "she
possesses many other things as well: she is very rich." "And yet," I
continued, "she likes your nosegays." "Oh, she has jewels and crowns!"
he exclaimed. I asked who she was. "If the states-general would but pay
me," he added, "I should be quite another man. Alas! there was a time
when I was so happy; but that is past, and I am now--" He raised his
swimming eyes to heaven. "And you were happy once?" I observed. "Ah,
would I were so still!" was his reply. "I was then as gay and contented
as a man can be." An old woman, who was coming toward us, now called
out, "Henry, Henry! where are you? We have been looking for you
everywhere: come to dinner." "Is he your son?" I inquired, as I went
toward her. "Yes," she said: "he is my poor, unfortunate son. The Lord
has sent me a heavy affliction." I asked whether he had been long in
this state. She answered, "He has been as calm as he is at present for
about six months. I thank Heaven that he has so far recovered: he was
for one whole year quite raving, and chained down in a madhouse. Now he
injures no one, but talks of nothing else than kings and queens. He used
to be a very good, quiet youth, and helped to maintain me; he wrote a
very fine hand; but all at once he became melancholy, was seized with a
violent fever, grew distracted, and is now as you see. If I were only to
tell you, sir--" I interrupted her by asking what period it was in which
he boasted of having been so happy. "Poor boy!" she exclaimed, with a
smile of compassion, "he means the time when he was completely deranged,
a time he never ceases to regret, when he was in the madhouse, and
unconscious of everything." I was thunderstruck: I placed a piece of
money in her hand, and hastened away.

"You were happy!" I exclaimed, as I returned quickly to the town, "'as
gay and contented as a man can be!'" God of heaven! and is this the
destiny of man? Is he only happy before he has acquired his reason, or
after he has lost it? Unfortunate being! And yet I envy your fate: I
envy the delusion to which you are a victim. You go forth with joy to
gather flowers for your princess,--in winter,--and grieve when you can
find none, and cannot understand why they do not grow. But I wander
forth without joy, without hope, without design; and I return as I came.
You fancy what a man you would be if the states general paid you. Happy
mortal, who can ascribe your wretchedness to an earthly cause! You
do not know, you do not feel, that in your own distracted heart and
disordered brain dwells the source of that unhappiness which all the
potentates on earth cannot relieve.

Let that man die unconsoled who can deride the invalid for undertaking
a journey to distant, healthful springs, where he often finds only a
heavier disease and a more painful death, or who can exult over the
despairing mind of a sinner, who, to obtain peace of conscience and an
alleviation of misery, makes a pilgrimage to the Holy Sepulchre. Each
laborious step which galls his wounded feet in rough and untrodden paths
pours a drop of balm into his troubled soul, and the journey of many a
weary day brings a nightly relief to his anguished heart. Will you dare
call this enthusiasm, ye crowd of pompous declaimers? Enthusiasm! O God!
thou seest my tears. Thou hast allotted us our portion of misery: must
we also have brethren to persecute us, to deprive us of our consolation,
of our trust in thee, and in thy love and mercy? For our trust in the
virtue of the healing root, or in the strength of the vine, what is it
else than a belief in thee from whom all that surrounds us derives its
healing and restoring powers? Father, whom I know not,--who wert once
wont to fill my soul, but who now hidest thy face from me,--call me back
to thee; be silent no longer; thy silence shall not delay a soul which
thirsts after thee. What man, what father, could be angry with a son for
returning to him suddenly, for falling on his neck, and exclaiming, "I
am here again, my father! forgive me if I have anticipated my journey,
and returned before the appointed time! The world is everywhere the
same,--a scene of labour and pain, of pleasure and reward; but what does
it all avail? I am happy only where thou art, and in thy presence am I
content to suffer or enjoy." And wouldst thou, heavenly Father, banish
such a child from thy presence?

DECEMBER 1.

Wilhelm, the man about whom I wrote to you--that man so enviable in his
misfortunes--was secretary to Charlotte's father; and an unhappy passion
for her which he cherished, concealed, and at length discovered, caused
him to be dismissed from his situation. This made him mad. Think, whilst
you peruse this plain narration, what an impression the circumstance has
made upon me! But it was related to me by Albert with as much calmness
as you will probably peruse it.

DECEMBER 4.

I implore your attention. It is all over with me. I can support this
state no longer. To-day I was sitting by Charlotte. She was playing
upon her piano a succession of delightful melodies, with such intense
expression! Her little sister was dressing her doll upon my lap. The
tears came into my eyes. I leaned down, and looked intently at her
wedding-ring: my tears fell--immediately she began to play that
favourite, that divine, air which has so often enchanted me. I felt
comfort from a recollection of the past, of those bygone days when that
air was familiar to me; and then I recalled all the sorrows and the
disappointments which I had since endured. I paced with hasty strides
through the room, my heart became convulsed with painful emotions. At
length I went up to her, and exclaimed With eagerness, "For Heaven's
sake, play that air no longer!" She stopped, and looked steadfastly at
me. She then said, with a smile which sunk deep into my heart, "Werther,
you are ill: your dearest food is distasteful to you. But go, I entreat
you, and endeavour to compose yourself." I tore myself away. God, thou
seest my torments, and wilt end them!

DECEMBER 6.

How her image haunts me! Waking or asleep, she fills my entire soul!
Soon as I close my eyes, here, in my brain, where all the nerves of
vision are concentrated, her dark eyes are imprinted. Here--I do not
know how to describe it; but, if I shut my eyes, hers are immediately
before me: dark as an abyss they open upon me, and absorb my senses.

And what is man--that boasted demigod? Do not his powers fail when he
most requires their use? And whether he soar in joy, or sink in sorrow,
is not his career in both inevitably arrested? And, whilst he fondly
dreams that he is grasping at infinity, does he not feel compelled to
return to a consciousness of his cold, monotonous existence?

THE EDITOR TO THE READER.

It is a matter of extreme regret that we want original evidence of the
last remarkable days of our friend; and we are, therefore, obliged
to interrupt the progress of his correspondence, and to supply the
deficiency by a connected narration.

I have felt it my duty to collect accurate information from the mouths
of persons well acquainted with his history. The story is simple; and
all the accounts agree, except in some unimportant particulars. It is
true, that, with respect to the characters of the persons spoken of,
opinions and judgments vary.

We have only, then, to relate conscientiously the facts which our
diligent labour has enabled us to collect, to give the letters of the
deceased, and to pay particular attention to the slightest fragment from
his pen, more especially as it is so difficult to discover the real and
correct motives of men who are not of the common order.

Sorrow and discontent had taken deep root in Werther's soul, and
gradually imparted their character to his whole being. The harmony of
his mind became completely disturbed; a perpetual excitement and mental
irritation, which weakened his natural powers, produced the saddest
effects upon him, and rendered him at length the victim of an exhaustion
against which he struggled with still more painful efforts than he had
displayed, even in contending with his other misfortunes. His mental
anxiety weakened his various good qualities; and he was soon converted
into a gloomy companion, always unhappy and unjust in his ideas, the
more wretched he became. This was, at least, the opinion of Albert's
friends. They assert, moreover, that the character of Albert himself had
undergone no change in the meantime: he was still the same being whom
Werther had loved, honoured, and respected from the commencement. His
love for Charlotte was unbounded: he was proud of her, and desired that
she should be recognised by every one as the noblest of created beings.
Was he, however, to blame for wishing to avert from her every appearance
of suspicion? or for his unwillingness to share his rich prize with
another, even for a moment, and in the most innocent manner? It is
asserted that Albert frequently retired from his wife's apartment during
Werther's visits; but this did not arise from hatred or aversion to
his friend, but only from a feeling that his presence was oppressive to
Werther.

Charlotte's father, who was confined to the house by indisposition, was
accustomed to send his carriage for her, that she might make excursions
in the neighbourhood. One day the weather had been unusually severe, and
the whole country was covered with snow.

Werther went for Charlotte the following morning, in order that, if
Albert were absent, he might conduct her home.

The beautiful weather produced but little impression on his troubled
spirit. A heavy weight lay upon his soul, deep melancholy had taken
possession of him, and his mind knew no change save from one painful
thought to another.

As he now never enjoyed internal peace, the condition of his fellow
creatures was to him a perpetual source of trouble and distress. He
believed he had disturbed the happiness of Albert and his wife; and,
whilst he censured himself strongly for this, he began to entertain a
secret dislike to Albert.

His thoughts were occasionally directed to this point. "Yes," he would
repeat to himself, with ill-concealed dissatisfaction, "yes, this is,
after all, the extent of that confiding, dear, tender, and sympathetic
love, that calm and eternal fidelity! What do I behold but satiety and
indifference? Does not every frivolous engagement attract him more than
his charming and lovely wife? Does he know how to prize his happiness?
Can he value her as she deserves? He possesses her, it is true, I know
that, as I know much more, and I have become accustomed to the thought
that he will drive me mad, or, perhaps, murder me. Is his friendship
toward me unimpaired? Does he not view my attachment to Charlotte as
an infringement upon his rights, and consider my attention to her as a
silent rebuke to himself? I know, and indeed feel, that he dislikes me,
that he wishes for my absence, that my presence is hateful to him."

He would often pause when on his way to visit Charlotte, stand still, as
though in doubt, and seem desirous of returning, but would nevertheless
proceed; and, engaged in such thoughts and soliloquies as we have
described, he finally reached the hunting-lodge, with a sort of
involuntary consent.

Upon one occasion he entered the house; and, inquiring for Charlotte,
he observed that the inmates were in a state of unusual confusion.
The eldest boy informed him that a dreadful misfortune had occurred
at Walheim,--that a peasant had been murdered! But this made little
impression upon him. Entering the apartment, he found Charlotte engaged
reasoning with her father, who, in spite of his infirmity, insisted on
going to the scene of the crime, in order to institute an inquiry. The
criminal was unknown; the victim had been found dead at his own door
that morning. Suspicions were excited: the murdered man had been in
the service of a widow, and the person who had previously filled the
situation had been dismissed from her employment.

As soon as Werther heard this, he exclaimed with great excitement,
"Is it possible! I must go to the spot--I cannot delay a moment!" He
hastened to Walheim. Every incident returned vividly to his remembrance;
and he entertained not the slightest doubt that that man was the
murderer to whom he had so often spoken, and for whom he entertained
so much regard. His way took him past the well-known lime trees, to the
house where the body had been carried; and his feelings were greatly
excited at the sight of the fondly recollected spot. That threshold
where the neighbours' children had so often played together was stained
with blood; love and attachment, the noblest feelings of human nature,
had been converted into violence and murder. The huge trees stood there
leafless and covered with hoarfrost; the beautiful hedgerows which
surrounded the old churchyard wall were withered; and the gravestones,
half covered with snow, were visible through the openings.

As he approached the inn, in front of which the whole village was
assembled, screams were suddenly heard. A troop of armed peasants was
seen approaching, and every one exclaimed that the criminal had been
apprehended. Werther looked, and was not long in doubt. The prisoner
was no other than the servant, who had been formerly so attached to the
widow, and whom he had met prowling about, with that suppressed anger
and ill-concealed despair, which we have before described.

"What have you done, unfortunate man?" inquired Werther, as he advanced
toward the prisoner. The latter turned his eyes upon him in silence, and
then replied with perfect composure; "No one will now marry her, and
she will marry no one." The prisoner was taken into the inn, and Werther
left the place. The mind of Werther was fearfully excited by this
shocking occurrence. He ceased, however, to be oppressed by his usual
feeling of melancholy, moroseness, and indifference to everything
that passed around him. He entertained a strong degree of pity for the
prisoner, and was seized with an indescribable anxiety to save him from
his impending fate. He considered him so unfortunate, he deemed his
crime so excusable, and thought his own condition so nearly similar,
that he felt convinced he could make every one else view the matter in
the light in which he saw it himself. He now became anxious to undertake
his defence, and commenced composing an eloquent speech for the
occasion; and, on his way to the hunting-lodge, he could not refrain
from speaking aloud the statement which he resolved to make to the
judge.

Upon his arrival, he found Albert had been before him: and he was a
little perplexed by this meeting; but he soon recovered himself, and
expressed his opinion with much warmth to the judge. The latter shook,
his head doubtingly; and although Werther urged his case with the utmost
zeal, feeling, and determination in defence of his client, yet, as we
may easily suppose, the judge was not much influenced by his appeal.
On the contrary, he interrupted him in his address, reasoned with
him seriously, and even administered a rebuke to him for becoming
the advocate of a murderer. He demonstrated, that, according to this
precedent, every law might be violated, and the public security utterly
destroyed. He added, moreover, that in such a case he could himself do
nothing, without incurring the greatest responsibility; that everything
must follow in the usual course, and pursue the ordinary channel.

Werther, however, did not abandon his enterprise, and even besought the
judge to connive at the flight of the prisoner. But this proposal
was peremptorily rejected. Albert, who had taken some part in the
discussion, coincided in opinion with the judge. At this Werther became
enraged, and took his leave in great anger, after the judge had more
than once assured him that the prisoner could not be saved.

The excess of his grief at this assurance may be inferred from a note we
have found amongst his papers, and which was doubtless written upon this
very occasion.

"You cannot be saved, unfortunate man! I see clearly that we cannot be
saved!"

Werther was highly incensed at the observations which Albert had made
to the judge in this matter of the prisoner. He thought he could detect
therein a little bitterness toward himself personally; and although,
upon reflection, it could not escape his sound judgment that their view
of the matter was correct, he felt the greatest possible reluctance to
make such an admission.

A memorandum of Werther's upon this point, expressive of his general
feelings toward Albert, has been found amongst his papers.

"What is the use of my continually repeating that he is a good and
estimable man? He is an inward torment to me, and I am incapable of
being just toward him."

One fine evening in winter, when the weather seemed inclined to thaw,
Charlotte and Albert were returning home together. The former looked
from time to time about her, as if she missed Werther's company. Albert
began to speak of him, and censured him for his prejudices. He
alluded to his unfortunate attachment, and wished it were possible
to discontinue his acquaintance. "I desire it on our own account," he
added; "and I request you will compel him to alter his deportment toward
you, and to visit you less frequently. The world is censorious, and I
know that here and there we are spoken of." Charlotte made no reply,
and Albert seemed to feel her silence. At least, from that time he never
again spoke of Werther; and, when she introduced the subject, he allowed
the conversation to die away, or else he directed the discourse into
another channel.

The vain attempt Werther had made to save the unhappy murderer was the
last feeble glimmering of a flame about to be extinguished. He sank
almost immediately afterward into a state of gloom and inactivity, until
he was at length brought to perfect distraction by learning that he
was to be summoned as a witness against the prisoner, who asserted his
complete innocence.

His mind now became oppressed by the recollection of every misfortune
of his past life. The mortification he had suffered at the ambassador's,
and his subsequent troubles, were revived in his memory. He became
utterly inactive. Destitute of energy, he was cut off from every pursuit
and occupation which compose the business of common life; and he became
a victim to his own susceptibility, and to his restless passion for the
most amiable and beloved of women, whose peace he destroyed. In this
unvarying monotony of existence his days were consumed; and his powers
became exhausted without aim or design, until they brought him to a
sorrowful end.

A few letters which he left behind, and which we here subjoin, afford
the best proofs of his anxiety of mind and of the depth of his passion,
as well as of his doubts and struggles, and of his weariness of life.

DECEMBER 12.

Dear Wilhelm, I am reduced to the condition of those unfortunate
wretches who believe they are pursued by an evil spirit. Sometimes I am
oppressed, not by apprehension or fear, but by an inexpressible internal
sensation, which weighs upon my heart, and impedes my breath! Then
I wander forth at night, even in this tempestuous season, and feel
pleasure in surveying the dreadful scenes around me.

Yesterday evening I went forth. A rapid thaw had suddenly set in: I
had been informed that the river had risen, that the brooks had all
overflowed their banks, and that the whole vale of Walheim was under
water! Upon the stroke of twelve I hastened forth. I beheld a
fearful sight. The foaming torrents rolled from the mountains in the
moonlight,--fields and meadows, trees and hedges, were confounded
together; and the entire valley was converted into a deep lake, which
was agitated by the roaring wind! And when the moon shone forth, and
tinged the black clouds with silver, and the impetuous torrent at
my feet foamed and resounded with awful and grand impetuosity, I was
overcome by a mingled sensation of apprehension and delight. With
extended arms I looked down into the yawning abyss, and cried,
"Plunge!'" For a moment my senses forsook me, in the intense delight of
ending my sorrows and my sufferings by a plunge into that gulf! And then
I felt as if I were rooted to the earth, and incapable of seeking an end
to my woes! But my hour is not yet come: I feel it is not. O Wilhelm,
how willingly could I abandon my existence to ride the whirlwind, or to
embrace the torrent! and then might not rapture perchance be the portion
of this liberated soul?

I turned my sorrowful eyes toward a favourite spot, where I was
accustomed to sit with Charlotte beneath a willow after a fatiguing
walk. Alas! it was covered with water, and with difficulty I found even
the meadow. And the fields around the hunting-lodge, thought I. Has our
dear bower been destroyed by this unpitying storm? And a beam of past
happiness streamed upon me, as the mind of a captive is illumined by
dreams of flocks and herds and bygone joys of home! But I am free from
blame. I have courage to die! Perhaps I have,--but I still sit here,
like a wretched pauper, who collects fagots, and begs her bread from
door to door, that she may prolong for a few days a miserable existence
which she is unwilling to resign.

DECEMBER 15.

What is the matter with me, dear Wilhelm? I am afraid of myself! Is not
my love for her of the purest, most holy, and most brotherly nature? Has
my soul ever been sullied by a single sensual desire? but I will make no
protestations. And now, ye nightly visions, how truly have those mortals
understood you, who ascribe your various contradictory effects to some
invincible power! This night I tremble at the avowal--I held her in my
arms, locked in a close embrace: I pressed her to my bosom, and covered
with countless kisses those dear lips which murmured in reply soft
protestations of love. My sight became confused by the delicious
intoxication of her eyes. Heavens! is it sinful to revel again in such
happiness, to recall once more those rapturous moments with intense
delight? Charlotte! Charlotte! I am lost! My senses are bewildered, my
recollection is confused, mine eyes are bathed in tears--I am ill; and
yet I am well--I wish for nothing--I have no desires--it were better I
were gone.

Under the circumstances narrated above, a determination to quit
this world had now taken fixed possession of Werther's soul. Since
Charlotte's return, this thought had been the final object of all his
hopes and wishes; but he had resolved that such a step should not be
taken with precipitation, but with calmness and tranquillity, and with
the most perfect deliberation.

His troubles and internal struggles may be understood from the following
fragment, which was found, without any date, amongst his papers, and
appears to have formed the beginning of a letter to Wilhelm.

"Her presence, her fate, her sympathy for me, have power still to
extract tears from my withered brain.

"One lifts up the curtain, and passes to the other side,--that is
all! And why all these doubts and delays? Because we know not what is
behind--because there is no returning--and because our mind infers that
all is darkness and confusion, where we have nothing but uncertainty."

His appearance at length became quite altered by the effect of his
melancholy thoughts; and his resolution was now finally and irrevocably
taken, of which the following ambiguous letter, which he addressed to
his friend, may appear to afford some proof.

DECEMBER 20.

I am grateful to your love, Wilhelm, for having repeated your advice so
seasonably. Yes, you are right: it is undoubtedly better that I should
depart. But I do not entirely approve your scheme of returning at
once to your neighbourhood; at least, I should like to make a little
excursion on the way, particularly as we may now expect a continued
frost, and consequently good roads. I am much pleased with your
intention of coming to fetch me; only delay your journey for a
fortnight, and wait for another letter from me. One should gather
nothing before it is ripe, and a fortnight sooner or later makes a great
difference. Entreat my mother to pray for her son, and tell her I beg
her pardon for all the unhappiness I have occasioned her. It has
ever been my fate to give pain to those whose happiness I should have
promoted. Adieu, my dearest friend. May every blessing of Heaven attend
you! Farewell.

We find it difficult to express the emotions with which Charlotte's soul
was agitated during the whole of this time, whether in relation to her
husband or to her unfortunate friend; although we are enabled, by our
knowledge of her character, to understand their nature.

It is certain that she had formed a determination, by every means in
her power to keep Werther at a distance; and, if she hesitated in her
decision, it was from a sincere feeling of friendly pity, knowing how
much it would cost him, indeed, that he would find it almost impossible
to comply with her wishes. But various causes now urged her to be firm.
Her husband preserved a strict silence about the whole matter; and she
never made it a subject of conversation, feeling bound to prove to him
by her conduct that her sentiments agreed with his.

The same day, which was the Sunday before Christmas, after Werther had
written the last-mentioned letter to his friend, he came in the evening
to Charlotte's house, and found her alone. She was busy preparing some
little gifts for her brothers and sisters, which were to be distributed
to them on Christmas Day. He began talking of the delight of
the children, and of that age when the sudden appearance of the
Christmas-tree, decorated with fruit and sweetmeats, and lighted up with
wax candles, causes such transports of joy. "You shall have a gift too,
if you behave well," said Charlotte, hiding her embarrassment under
sweet smile. "And what do you call behaving well? What should I do, what
can I do, my dear Charlotte?" said he. "Thursday night," she answered,
"is Christmas Eve. The children are all to be here, and my father too:
there is a present for each; do you come likewise, but do not come
before that time." Werther started. "I desire you will not: it must be
so," she continued. "I ask it of you as a favour, for my own peace and
tranquillity. We cannot go on in this manner any longer." He turned away
his face walked hastily up and down the room, muttering indistinctly,
"We cannot go on in this manner any longer!" Charlotte, seeing the
violent agitation into which these words had thrown him, endeavoured
to divert his thoughts by different questions, but in vain. "No,
Charlotte!" he exclaimed; "I will never see you any more!" "And why so?"
she answered. "We may--we must see each other again; only let it be
with more discretion. Oh! why were you born with that excessive, that
ungovernable passion for everything that is dear to you?" Then, taking
his hand, she said, "I entreat of you to be more calm: your talents,
your understanding, your genius, will furnish you with a thousand
resources. Be a man, and conquer an unhappy attachment toward a creature
who can do nothing but pity you." He bit his lips, and looked at her
with a gloomy countenance. She continued to hold his hand. "Grant me but
a moment's patience, Werther," she said. "Do you not see that you are
deceiving yourself, that you are seeking your own destruction? Why must
you love me, me only, who belong to another? I fear, I much fear, that
it is only the impossibility of possessing me which makes your desire
for me so strong." He drew back his hand, whilst he surveyed her with a
wild and angry look. "'Tis well!" he exclaimed, "'tis very well! Did not
Albert furnish you with this reflection? It is profound, a very profound
remark." "A reflection that any one might easily make," she answered;
"and is there not a woman in the whole world who is at liberty, and has
the power to make you happy? Conquer yourself: look for such a being,
and believe me when I say that you will certainly find her. I have long
felt for you, and for us all: you have confined yourself too long within
the limits of too narrow a circle. Conquer yourself; make an effort: a
short journey will be of service to you. Seek and find an object worthy
of your love; then return hither, and let us enjoy together all the
happiness of the most perfect friendship."

"This speech," replied Werther with a cold smile, "this speech should
be printed, for the benefit of all teachers. My dear Charlotte, allow me
but a short time longer, and all will be well." "But however, Werther,"
she added, "do not come again before Christmas." He was about to make
some answer, when Albert came in. They saluted each other coldly, and
with mutual embarrassment paced up and down the room. Werther made
some common remarks; Albert did the same, and their conversation soon
dropped. Albert asked his wife about some household matters; and,
finding that his commissions were not executed, he used some expressions
which, to Werther's ear, savoured of extreme harshness. He wished to go,
but had not power to move; and in this situation he remained till eight
o'clock, his uneasiness and discontent continually increasing. At length
the cloth was laid for supper, and he took up his hat and stick. Albert
invited him to remain; but Werther, fancying that he was merely paying a
formal compliment, thanked him coldly, and left the house.

Werther returned home, took the candle from his servant, and retired
to his room alone. He talked for some time with great earnestness to
himself, wept aloud, walked in a state of great excitement through his
chamber; till at length, without undressing, he threw himself on the
bed, where he was found by his servant at eleven o'clock, when the
latter ventured to enter the room, and take off his boots. Werther did
not prevent him, but forbade him to come in the morning till he should
ring.

On Monday morning, the 21st of December, he wrote to Charlotte the
following letter, which was found, sealed, on his bureau after his
death, and was given to her. I shall insert it in fragments; as it
appears, from several circumstances, to have been written in that
manner.

"It is all over, Charlotte: I am resolved to die! I make this
declaration deliberately and coolly, without any romantic passion, on
this morning of the day when I am to see you for the last time. At the
moment you read these lines, O best of women, the cold grave will hold
the inanimate remains of that restless and unhappy being who, in the
last moments of his existence, knew no pleasure so great as that of
conversing with you! I have passed a dreadful night or rather, let me
say, a propitious one; for it has given me resolution, it has fixed my
purpose. I am resolved to die. When I tore myself from you yesterday,
my senses were in tumult and disorder; my heart was oppressed, hope and
pleasure had fled from me for ever, and a petrifying cold had seized
my wretched being. I could scarcely reach my room. I threw myself on
my knees; and Heaven, for the last time, granted me the consolation of
shedding tears. A thousand ideas, a thousand schemes, arose within my
soul; till at length one last, fixed, final thought took possession of
my heart. It was to die. I lay down to rest; and in the morning, in the
quiet hour of awakening, the same determination was upon me. To die! It
is not despair: it is conviction that I have filled up the measure of
my sufferings, that I have reached my appointed term, and must sacrifice
myself for thee. Yes, Charlotte, why should I not avow it? One of us
three must die: it shall be Werther. O beloved Charlotte! this heart,
excited by rage and fury, has often conceived the horrid idea of
murdering your husband--you--myself! The lot is cast at length. And in
the bright, quiet evenings of summer, when you sometimes wander toward
the mountains, let your thoughts then turn to me: recollect how often
you have watched me coming to meet you from the valley; then bend your
eyes upon the churchyard which contains my grave, and, by the light of
the setting sun, mark how the evening breeze waves the tall grass
which grows above my tomb. I was calm when I began this letter, but the
recollection of these scenes makes me weep like a child."

About ten in the morning, Werther called his servant, and, whilst he
was dressing, told him that in a few days he intended to set out upon
a journey, and bade him therefore lay his clothes in order, and prepare
them for packing up, call in all his accounts, fetch home the books
he had lent, and give two months' pay to the poor dependants who were
accustomed to receive from him a weekly allowance.

He breakfasted in his room, and then mounted his horse, and went to
visit the steward, who, however, was not at home. He walked pensively
in the garden, and seemed anxious to renew all the ideas that were most
painful to him.

The children did not suffer him to remain alone long. They followed him,
skipping and dancing before him, and told him, that after to-morrow and
tomorrow and one day more, they were to receive their Christmas gift
from Charlotte; and they then recounted all the wonders of which they
had formed ideas in their child imaginations. "Tomorrow and tomorrow,"
said he, "and one day more!" And he kissed them tenderly. He was going;
but the younger boy stopped him, to whisper something in his ear. He
told him that his elder brothers had written splendid New-Year's wishes
so large! one for papa, and another for Albert and Charlotte, and one
for Werther; and they were to be presented early in the morning, on
New Year's Day. This quite overcame him. He made each of the children
a present, mounted his horse, left his compliments for papa and mamma,
and, with tears in his eyes, rode away from the place.

He returned home about five o'clock, ordered his servant to keep up
his fire, desired him to pack his books and linen at the bottom of the
trunk, and to place his coats at the top. He then appears to have made
the following addition to the letter addressed to Charlotte:

"You do not expect me. You think I will obey you, and not visit you
again till Christmas Eve. O Charlotte, today or never! On Christmas Eve
you will hold this paper in your hand; you will tremble, and moisten it
with your tears. I will--I must! Oh, how happy I feel to be determined!"

In the meantime, Charlotte was in a pitiable state of mind. After her
last conversation with Werther, she found how painful to herself it
would be to decline his visits, and knew how severely he would suffer
from their separation.

She had, in conversation with Albert, mentioned casually that Werther
would not return before Christmas Eve; and soon afterward Albert went
on horseback to see a person in the neighbourhood, with whom he had to
transact some business which would detain him all night.

Charlotte was sitting alone. None of her family were near, and she gave
herself up to the reflections that silently took possession of her mind.
She was for ever united to a husband whose love and fidelity she had
proved, to whom she was heartily devoted, and who seemed to be a special
gift from Heaven to ensure her happiness. On the other hand, Werther had
become dear to her. There was a cordial unanimity of sentiment between
them from the very first hour of their acquaintance, and their long
association and repeated interviews had made an indelible impression
upon her heart. She had been accustomed to communicate to him every
thought and feeling which interested her, and his absence threatened to
open a void in her existence which it might be impossible to fill. How
heartily she wished that she might change him into her brother,--that
she could induce him to marry one of her own friends, or could
reestablish his intimacy with Albert.

She passed all her intimate friends in review before her mind, but found
something objectionable in each, and could decide upon none to whom she
would consent to give him.

Amid all these considerations she felt deeply but indistinctly that her
own real but unexpressed wish was to retain him for herself, and her
pure and amiable heart felt from this thought a sense of oppression
which seemed to forbid a prospect of happiness. She was wretched: a dark
cloud obscured her mental vision.

It was now half-past six o'clock, and she heard Werther's step on the
stairs. She at once recognised his voice, as he inquired if she were at
home. Her heart beat audibly--we could almost say for the first time--at
his arrival. It was too late to deny herself; and, as he entered, she
exclaimed, with a sort of ill concealed confusion, "You have not kept
your word!" "I promised nothing," he answered. "But you should have
complied, at least for my sake," she continued. "I implore you, for both
our sakes."

She scarcely knew what she said or did; and sent for some friends, who,
by their presence, might prevent her being left alone with Werther. He
put down some books he had brought with him, then made inquiries about
some others, until she began to hope that her friends might arrive
shortly, entertaining at the same time a desire that they might stay
away.

At one moment she felt anxious that the servant should remain in the
adjoining room, then she changed her mind. Werther, meanwhile, walked
impatiently up and down. She went to the piano, and determined not
to retire. She then collected her thoughts, and sat down quietly at
Werther's side, who had taken his usual place on the sofa.

"Have you brought nothing to read?" she inquired. He had nothing. "There
in my drawer," she continued, "you will find your own translation of
some of the songs of Ossian. I have not yet read them, as I have still
hoped to hear you recite them; but, for some time past, I have not been
able to accomplish such a wish." He smiled, and went for the manuscript,
which he took with a shudder. He sat down; and, with eyes full of tears,
he began to read.

"Star of descending night! fair is thy light in the west! thou liftest
thy unshorn head from thy cloud; thy steps are stately on thy hill. What
dost thou behold in the plain? The stormy winds are laid. The murmur of
the torrent comes from afar. Roaring waves climb the distant rock. The
flies of evening are on their feeble wings: the hum of their course is
on the field. What dost thou behold, fair light? But thou dost smile and
depart. The waves come with joy around thee: they bathe thy lovely hair.
Farewell, thou silent beam! Let the light of Ossian's soul arise!

"And it does arise in its strength! I behold my departed friends. Their
gathering is on Lora, as in the days of other years. Fingal comes like a
watery column of mist! his heroes are around: and see the bards of song,
gray-haired Ullin! stately Ryno! Alpin with the tuneful voice: the soft
complaint of Minona! How are ye changed, my friends, since the days of
Selma's feast! when we contended, like gales of spring as they fly along
the hill, and bend by turns the feebly whistling grass.

"Minona came forth in her beauty, with downcast look and tearful eye.
Her hair was flying slowly with the blast that rushed unfrequent from
the hill. The souls of the heroes were sad when she raised the tuneful
voice. Oft had they seen the grave of Salgar, the dark dwelling of
white-bosomed Colma. Colma left alone on the hill with all her voice of
song! Salgar promised to come! but the night descended around. Hear the
voice of Colma, when she sat alone on the hill!

"Colma. It is night: I am alone, forlorn on the hill of storms. The wind
is heard on the mountain. The torrent is howling down the rock. No hut
receives me from the rain: forlorn on the hill of winds!

"Rise moon! from behind thy clouds. Stars of the night, arise! Lead me,
some light, to the place where my love rests from the chase alone! His
bow near him unstrung, his dogs panting around him! But here I must
sit alone by the rock of the mossy stream. The stream and the wind roar
aloud. I hear not the voice of my love! Why delays my Salgar; why the
chief of the hill his promise? Here is the rock and here the tree! here
is the roaring stream! Thou didst promise with night to be here. Ah!
whither is my Salgar gone? With thee I would fly from my father, with
thee from my brother of pride. Our race have long been foes: we are not
foes, O Salgar!

"Cease a little while, O wind! stream, be thou silent awhile! let my
voice be heard around! let my wanderer hear me! Salgar! it is Colma who
calls. Here is the tree and the rock. Salgar, my love, I am here! Why
delayest thou thy coming? Lo! the calm moon comes forth. The flood is
bright in the vale. The rocks are gray on the steep. I see him not
on the brow. His dogs come not before him with tidings of his near
approach. Here I must sit alone!

"Who lie on the heath beside me? Are they my love and my brother? Speak
to me, O my friends! To Colma they give no reply. Speak to me: I am
alone! My soul is tormented with fears. Ah, they are dead! Their swords
are red from the fight. O my brother! my brother! why hast thou slain my
Salgar! Why, O Salgar, hast thou slain my brother! Dear were ye both to
me! what shall I say in your praise? Thou wert fair on the hill among
thousands! he was terrible in fight! Speak to me! hear my voice! hear
me, sons of my love! They are silent! silent for ever! Cold, cold, are
their breasts of clay! Oh, from the rock on the hill, from the top of
the windy steep, speak, ye ghosts of the dead! Speak, I will not be
afraid! Whither are ye gone to rest? In what cave of the hill shall
I find the departed? No feeble voice is on the gale: no answer half
drowned in the storm!

"I sit in my grief: I wait for morning in my tears! Rear the tomb, ye
friends of the dead. Close it not till Colma come. My life flies away
like a dream. Why should I stay behind? Here shall I rest with my
friends, by the stream of the sounding rock. When night comes on the
hill when the loud winds arise my ghost shall stand in the blast, and
mourn the death of my friends. The hunter shall hear from his booth;
he shall fear, but love my voice! For sweet shall my voice be for my
friends: pleasant were her friends to Colma.

"Such was thy song, Minona, softly blushing daughter of Torman. Our
tears descended for Colma, and our souls were sad! Ullin came with his
harp; he gave the song of Alpin. The voice of Alpin was pleasant, the
soul of Ryno was a beam of fire! But they had rested in the narrow
house: their voice had ceased in Selma! Ullin had returned one day from
the chase before the heroes fell. He heard their strife on the hill:
their song was soft, but sad! They mourned the fall of Morar, first of
mortal men! His soul was like the soul of Fingal: his sword like the
sword of Oscar. But he fell, and his father mourned: his sister's eyes
were full of tears. Minona's eyes were full of tears, the sister of
car-borne Morar. She retired from the song of Ullin, like the moon in
the west, when she foresees the shower, and hides her fair head in a
cloud. I touched the harp with Ullin: the song of morning rose!

"Ryno. The wind and the rain are past, calm is the noon of day. The
clouds are divided in heaven. Over the green hills flies the inconstant
sun. Red through the stony vale comes down the stream of the hill. Sweet
are thy murmurs, O stream! but more sweet is the voice I hear. It is the
voice of Alpin, the son of song, mourning for the dead! Bent is his head
of age: red his tearful eye. Alpin, thou son of song, why alone on the
silent hill? why complainest thou, as a blast in the wood as a wave on
the lonely shore?

"Alpin. My tears, O Ryno! are for the dead my voice for those that have
passed away. Tall thou art on the hill; fair among the sons of the vale.
But thou shalt fall like Morar: the mourner shall sit on thy tomb. The
hills shall know thee no more: thy bow shall lie in thy hall unstrung!

"Thou wert swift, O Morar! as a roe on the desert: terrible as a meteor
of fire. Thy wrath was as the storm. Thy sword in battle as lightning in
the field. Thy voice was as a stream after rain, like thunder on distant
hills. Many fell by thy arm: they were consumed in the flames of thy
wrath. But when thou didst return from war, how peaceful was thy brow.
Thy face was like the sun after rain: like the moon in the silence of
night: calm as the breast of the lake when the loud wind is laid.

"Narrow is thy dwelling now! dark the place of thine abode! With three
steps I compass thy grave, O thou who wast so great before! Four stones,
with their heads of moss, are the only memorial of thee. A tree with
scarce a leaf, long grass which whistles in the wind, mark to the
hunter's eye the grave of the mighty Morar. Morar! thou art low indeed.
Thou hast no mother to mourn thee, no maid with her tears of love. Dead
is she that brought thee forth. Fallen is the daughter of Morglan.

"Who on his staff is this? Who is this whose head is white with age,
whose eyes are red with tears, who quakes at every step? It is thy
father, O Morar! the father of no son but thee. He heard of thy fame in
war, he heard of foes dispersed. He heard of Morar's renown, why did
he not hear of his wound? Weep, thou father of Morar! Weep, but thy son
heareth thee not. Deep is the sleep of the dead, low their pillow of
dust. No more shall he hear thy voice, no more awake at thy call. When
shall it be morn in the grave, to bid the slumberer awake? Farewell,
thou bravest of men! thou conqueror in the field! but the field shall
see thee no more, nor the dark wood be lightened with the splendour
of thy steel. Thou has left no son. The song shall preserve thy name.
Future times shall hear of thee they shall hear of the fallen Morar!

"The grief of all arose, but most the bursting sigh of Armin. He
remembers the death of his son, who fell in the days of his youth.
Carmor was near the hero, the chief of the echoing Galmal. Why burst the
sigh of Armin? he said. Is there a cause to mourn? The song comes with
its music to melt and please the soul. It is like soft mist that, rising
from a lake, pours on the silent vale; the green flowers are filled with
dew, but the sun returns in his strength, and the mist is gone. Why art
thou sad, O Armin, chief of sea-surrounded Gorma?

"Sad I am! nor small is my cause of woe! Carmor, thou hast lost no son;
thou hast lost no daughter of beauty. Colgar the valiant lives, and
Annira, fairest maid. The boughs of thy house ascend, O Carmor! but
Armin is the last of his race. Dark is thy bed, O Daura! deep thy sleep
in the tomb! When shalt thou wake with thy songs? with all thy voice of
music?

"Arise, winds of autumn, arise: blow along the heath. Streams of the
mountains, roar; roar, tempests in the groves of my oaks! Walk through
broken clouds, O moon! show thy pale face at intervals; bring to my mind
the night when all my children fell, when Arindal the mighty fell--when
Daura the lovely failed. Daura, my daughter, thou wert fair, fair as
the moon on Fura, white as the driven snow, sweet as the breathing gale.
Arindal, thy bow was strong, thy spear was swift on the field, thy look
was like mist on the wave, thy shield a red cloud in a storm! Armar,
renowned in war, came and sought Daura's love. He was not long refused:
fair was the hope of their friends.

"Erath, son of Odgal, repined: his brother had been slain by Armar. He
came disguised like a son of the sea: fair was his cliff on the wave,
white his locks of age, calm his serious brow. Fairest of women, he
said, lovely daughter of Armin! a rock not distant in the sea bears
a tree on its side; red shines the fruit afar. There Armar waits for
Daura. I come to carry his love! she went she called on Armar. Nought
answered, but the son of the rock. Armar, my love, my love! why
tormentest thou me with fear? Hear, son of Arnart, hear! it is Daura who
calleth thee. Erath, the traitor, fled laughing to the land. She lifted
up her voice--she called for her brother and her father. Arindal! Armin!
none to relieve you, Daura.

"Her voice came over the sea. Arindal, my son, descended from the hill,
rough in the spoils of the chase. His arrows rattled by his side; his
bow was in his hand, five dark-gray dogs attended his steps. He saw
fierce Erath on the shore; he seized and bound him to an oak. Thick wind
the thongs of the hide around his limbs; he loads the winds with his
groans. Arindal ascends the deep in his boat to bring Daura to land.
Armar came in his wrath, and let fly the gray-feathered shaft. It sung,
it sunk in thy heart, O Arindal, my son! for Erath the traitor thou
diest. The oar is stopped at once: he panted on the rock, and expired.
What is thy grief, O Daura, when round thy feet is poured thy brother's
blood. The boat is broken in twain. Armar plunges into the sea to rescue
his Daura, or die. Sudden a blast from a hill came over the waves; he
sank, and he rose no more.

"Alone, on the sea-beat rock, my daughter was heard to complain;
frequent and loud were her cries. What could her father do? All night I
stood on the shore: I saw her by the faint beam of the moon. All night
I heard her cries. Loud was the wind; the rain beat hard on the hill.
Before morning appeared, her voice was weak; it died away like the
evening breeze among the grass of the rocks. Spent with grief, she
expired, and left thee, Armin, alone. Gone is my strength in war, fallen
my pride among women. When the storms aloft arise, when the north lifts
the wave on high, I sit by the sounding shore, and look on the fatal
rock.

"Often by the setting moon I see the ghosts of my children; half
viewless they walk in mournful conference together."

A torrent of tears which streamed from Charlotte's eyes and gave relief
to her bursting heart, stopped Werther's recitation. He threw down the
book, seized her hand, and wept bitterly. Charlotte leaned upon her
hand, and buried her face in her handkerchief: the agitation of both was
excessive. They felt that their own fate was pictured in the misfortunes
of Ossian's heroes, they felt this together, and their tears redoubled.
Werther supported his forehead on Charlotte's arm: she trembled, she
wished to be gone; but sorrow and sympathy lay like a leaden weight upon
her soul. She recovered herself shortly, and begged Werther, with broken
sobs, to leave her, implored him with the utmost earnestness to comply
with her request. He trembled; his heart was ready to burst: then,
taking up the book again, he recommenced reading, in a voice broken by
sobs.

"Why dost thou waken me, O spring? Thy voice woos me, exclaiming,
I refresh thee with heavenly dews; but the time of my decay is
approaching, the storm is nigh that shall whither my leaves. Tomorrow
the traveller shall come, he shall come, who beheld me in beauty: his
eye shall seek me in the field around, but he shall not find me."

The whole force of these words fell upon the unfortunate Werther. Full
of despair, he threw himself at Charlotte's feet, seized her hands, and
pressed them to his eyes and to his forehead. An apprehension of
his fatal project now struck her for the first time. Her senses were
bewildered: she held his hands, pressed them to her bosom; and, leaning
toward him with emotions of the tenderest pity, her warm cheek touched
his. They lost sight of everything. The world disappeared from their
eyes. He clasped her in his arms, strained her to his bosom, and covered
her trembling lips with passionate kisses. "Werther!" she cried with a
faint voice, turning herself away; "Werther!" and, with a feeble hand,
she pushed him from her. At length, with the firm voice of virtue, she
exclaimed, "Werther!" He resisted not, but, tearing himself from her
arms, fell on his knees before her. Charlotte rose, and, with disordered
grief, in mingled tones of love and resentment, she exclaimed, "It is
the last time, Werther! You shall never see me any more!" Then, casting
one last, tender look upon her unfortunate lover, she rushed into the
adjoining room, and locked the door. Werther held out his arms, but
did not dare to detain her. He continued on the ground, with his head
resting on the sofa, for half an hour, till he heard a noise which
brought him to his senses. The servant entered. He then walked up and
down the room; and, when he was again left alone, he went to Charlotte's
door, and, in a low voice, said, "Charlotte, Charlotte! but one word
more, one last adieu!" She returned no answer. He stopped, and listened
and entreated; but all was silent. At length he tore himself from the
place, crying, "Adieu, Charlotte, adieu for ever!"

Werther ran to the gate of the town. The guards, who knew him, let him
pass in silence. The night was dark and stormy,--it rained and snowed.
He reached his own door about eleven. His servant, although seeing him
enter the house without his hat, did not venture to say anything; and;
as he undressed his master, he found that his clothes were wet. His hat
was afterward found on the point of a rock overhanging the valley; and
it is inconceivable how he could have climbed to the summit on such a
dark, tempestuous night without losing his life.

He retired to bed, and slept to a late hour. The next morning his
servant, upon being called to bring his coffee, found him writing. He
was adding, to Charlotte, what we here annex.

"For the last, last time I open these eyes. Alas! they will behold the
sun no more. It is covered by a thick, impenetrable cloud. Yes, Nature!
put on mourning: your child, your friend, your lover, draws near his
end! This thought, Charlotte, is without parallel; and yet it seems
like a mysterious dream when I repeat--this is my last day! The last!
Charlotte, no word can adequately express this thought. The last! To-day
I stand erect in all my strength to-morrow, cold and stark, I shall lie
extended upon the ground. To die! what is death? We do but dream in our
discourse upon it. I have seen many human beings die; but, so straitened
is our feeble nature, we have no clear conception of the beginning or
the end of our existence. At this moment I am my own--or rather I am
thine, thine, my adored! and the next we are parted, severed--perhaps
for ever! No, Charlotte, no! How can I, how can you, be annihilated? We
exist. What is annihilation? A mere word, an unmeaning sound that fixes
no impression on the mind. Dead, Charlotte! laid in the cold earth, in
the dark and narrow grave! I had a friend once who was everything to me
in early youth. She died. I followed her hearse; I stood by her grave
when the coffin was lowered; and when I heard the creaking of the cords
as they were loosened and drawn up, when the first shovelful of earth
was thrown in, and the coffin returned a hollow sound, which grew
fainter and fainter till all was completely covered over, I threw myself
on the ground; my heart was smitten, grieved, shattered, rent--but I
neither knew what had happened, nor what was to happen to me. Death!
the grave! I understand not the words.--Forgive, oh, forgive me!
Yesterday--ah, that day should have been the last of my life! Thou
angel! for the first time in my existence, I felt rapture glow within
my inmost soul. She loves, she loves me! Still burns upon my lips the
sacred fire they received from thine. New torrents of delight overwhelm
my soul. Forgive me, oh, forgive!

"I knew that I was dear to you; I saw it in your first entrancing look,
knew it by the first pressure of your hand; but when I was absent from
you, when I saw Albert at your side, my doubts and fears returned.

"Do you remember the flowers you sent me, when, at that crowded
assembly, you could neither speak nor extend your hand to me? Half the
night I was on my knees before those flowers, and I regarded them as the
pledges of your love; but those impressions grew fainter, and were at
length effaced.

"Everything passes away; but a whole eternity could not extinguish the
living flame which was yesterday kindled by your lips, and which now
burns within me. She loves me! These arms have encircled her waist,
these lips have trembled upon hers. She is mine! Yes, Charlotte, you are
mine for ever!

"And what do they mean by saying Albert is your husband? He may be so
for this world; and in this world it is a sin to love you, to wish
to tear you from his embrace. Yes, it is a crime; and I suffer the
punishment, but I have enjoyed the full delight of my sin. I have
inhaled a balm that has revived my soul. From this hour you are mine;
yes, Charlotte, you are mine! I go before you. I go to my Father and to
your Father. I will pour out my sorrows before him, and he will give me
comfort till you arrive. Then will I fly to meet you. I will claim you,
and remain your eternal embrace, in the presence of the Almighty.

"I do not dream, I do not rave. Drawing nearer to the grave my
perceptions become clearer. We shall exist; we shall see each other
again; we shall behold your mother; I shall behold her, and expose to
her my inmost heart. Your mother--your image!"

About eleven o'clock Werther asked his servant if Albert had returned.
He answered, "Yes;" for he had seen him pass on horseback: upon which
Werther sent him the following note, unsealed:

"Be so good as to lend me your pistols for a journey. Adieu."

Charlotte had slept little during the past night. All her apprehensions
were realised in a way that she could neither foresee nor avoid. Her
blood was boiling in her veins, and a thousand painful sensations rent
her pure heart. Was it the ardour of Werther's passionate embraces that
she felt within her bosom? Was it anger at his daring? Was it the sad
comparison of her present condition with former days of innocence,
tranquillity, and self-confidence? How could she approach her husband,
and confess a scene which she had no reason to conceal, and which she
yet felt, nevertheless, unwilling to avow? They had preserved so long a
silence toward each other and should she be the first to break it by so
unexpected a discovery? She feared that the mere statement of Werther's
visit would trouble him, and his distress would be heightened by her
perfect candour. She wished that he could see her in her true light, and
judge her without prejudice; but was she anxious that he should read her
inmost soul? On the other hand, could she deceive a being to whom all
her thoughts had ever been exposed as clearly as crystal, and from whom
no sentiment had ever been concealed? These reflections made her anxious
and thoughtful. Her mind still dwelt on Werther, who was now lost to
her, but whom she could not bring herself to resign, and for whom she
knew nothing was left but despair if she should be lost to him for ever.

A recollection of that mysterious estrangement which had lately
subsisted between herself and Albert, and which she could never
thoroughly understand, was now beyond measure painful to her. Even the
prudent and the good have before now hesitated to explain their mutual
differences, and have dwelt in silence upon their imaginary grievances,
until circumstances have become so entangled, that in that critical
juncture, when a calm explanation would have saved all parties, an
understanding was impossible. And thus if domestic confidence had been
earlier established between them, if love and kind forbearance had
mutually animated and expanded their hearts, it might not, perhaps, even
yet have been too late to save our friend.

But we must not forget one remarkable circumstance. We may observe from
the character of Werther's correspondence, that he had never affected
to conceal his anxious desire to quit this world. He had often discussed
the subject with Albert; and, between the latter and Charlotte, it had
not unfrequently formed a topic of conversation. Albert was so opposed
to the very idea of such an action, that, with a degree of irritation
unusual in him, he had more than once given Werther to understand that
he doubted the seriousness of his threats, and not only turned them into
ridicule, but caused Charlotte to share his feelings of incredulity.
Her heart was thus tranquillised when she felt disposed to view
the melancholy subject in a serious point of view, though she never
communicated to her husband the apprehensions she sometimes experienced.

Albert, upon his return, was received by Charlotte with ill-concealed
embarrassment. He was himself out of humour; his business was
unfinished; and he had just discovered that the neighbouring official
with whom he had to deal, was an obstinate and narrow-minded personage.
Many things had occurred to irritate him.

He inquired whether anything had happened during his absence, and
Charlotte hastily answered that Werther had been there on the evening
previously. He then inquired for his letters, and was answered that
several packages had been left in his study. He thereon retired, leaving
Charlotte alone.

The presence of the being she loved and honoured produced a new
impression on her heart. The recollection of his generosity, kindness,
and affection had calmed her agitation: a secret impulse prompted her
to follow him; she took her work and went to his study, as was often
her custom. He was busily employed opening and reading his letters.
It seemed as if the contents of some were disagreeable. She asked some
questions: he gave short answers, and sat down to write.

Several hours passed in this manner, and Charlotte's feelings became
more and more melancholy. She felt the extreme difficulty of explaining
to her husband, under any circumstances, the weight that lay upon her
heart; and her depression became every moment greater, in proportion as
she endeavoured to hide her grief, and to conceal her tears.

The arrival of Werther's servant occasioned her the greatest
embarrassment. He gave Albert a note, which the latter coldly handed to
his wife, saying, at the same time, "Give him the pistols. I wish him
a pleasant journey," he added, turning to the servant. These words
fell upon Charlotte like a thunderstroke: she rose from her seat
half-fainting, and unconscious of what she did. She walked mechanically
toward the wall, took down the pistols with a trembling hand, slowly
wiped the dust from them, and would have delayed longer, had not Albert
hastened her movements by an impatient look. She then delivered the
fatal weapons to the servant, without being able to utter a word. As
soon as he had departed, she folded up her work, and retired at once
to her room, her heart overcome with the most fearful forebodings. She
anticipated some dreadful calamity. She was at one moment on the point
of going to her husband, throwing herself at his feet, and acquainting
him with all that had happened on the previous evening, that she might
acknowledge her fault, and explain her apprehensions; then she saw that
such a step would be useless, as she would certainly be unable to induce
Albert to visit Werther. Dinner was served; and a kind friend whom she
had persuaded to remain assisted to sustain the conversation, which was
carried on by a sort of compulsion, till the events of the morning were
forgotten.

When the servant brought the pistols to Werther, the latter received
them with transports of delight upon hearing that Charlotte had given
them to him with her own hand. He ate some bread, drank some wine, sent
his servant to dinner, and then sat down to write as follows:

"They have been in your hands you wiped the dust from them. I kiss them
a thousand times--you have touched them. Yes, Heaven favours my design,
and you, Charlotte, provide me with the fatal instruments. It was my
desire to receive my death from your hands, and my wish is gratified.
I have made inquiries of my servant. You trembled when you gave him the
pistols, but you bade me no adieu. Wretched, wretched that I am--not one
farewell! How could you shut your heart against me in that hour which
makes you mine for ever? Charlotte, ages cannot efface the impression--I
feel you cannot hate the man who so passionately loves you!"

After dinner he called his servant, desired him to finish the packing
up, destroyed many papers, and then went out to pay some trifling debts.
He soon returned home, then went out again, notwithstanding the rain,
walked for some time in the count's garden, and afterward proceeded
farther into the country. Toward evening he came back once more, and
resumed his writing.

"Wilhelm, I have for the last time beheld the mountains, the forests,
and the sky. Farewell! And you, my dearest mother, forgive me! Console
her, Wilhelm. God bless you! I have settled all my affairs! Farewell! We
shall meet again, and be happier than ever."

"I have requited you badly, Albert; but you will forgive me. I have
disturbed the peace of your home. I have sowed distrust between you.
Farewell! I will end all this wretchedness. And oh, that my death
may render you happy! Albert, Albert! make that angel happy, and the
blessing of Heaven be upon you!"

He spent the rest of the evening in arranging his papers: he tore and
burned a great many; others he sealed up, and directed to Wilhelm.
They contained some detached thoughts and maxims, some of which I have
perused. At ten o'clock he ordered his fire to be made up, and a bottle
of wine to be brought to him. He then dismissed his servant, whose room,
as well as the apartments of the rest of the family, was situated in
another part of the house. The servant lay down without undressing, that
he might be the sooner ready for his journey in the morning, his master
having informed him that the post-horses would be at the door before six
o'clock.

"Past eleven o'clock! All is silent around me, and my soul is calm. I
thank thee, O God, that thou bestowest strength and courage upon me in
these last moments! I approach the window, my dearest of friends; and
through the clouds, which are at this moment driven rapidly along by the
impetuous winds, I behold the stars which illumine the eternal heavens.
No, you will not fall, celestial bodies: the hand of the Almighty
supports both you and me! I have looked for the last time upon the
constellation of the Greater Bear: it is my favourite star; for when
I bade you farewell at night, Charlotte, and turned my steps from your
door, it always shone upon me. With what rapture have I at times beheld
it! How often have I implored it with uplifted hands to witness my
felicity! and even still--But what object is there, Charlotte, which
fails to summon up your image before me? Do you not surround me on all
sides? and have I not, like a child, treasured up every trifle which you
have consecrated by your touch?

"Your profile, which was so dear to me, I return to you; and I pray
you to preserve it. Thousands of kisses have I imprinted upon it, and a
thousand times has it gladdened my heart on departing from and returning
to my home.

"I have implored your father to protect my remains. At the corner of the
churchyard, looking toward the fields, there are two lime-trees--there
I wish to lie. Your father can, and doubtless will, do this much for his
friend. Implore it of him. But perhaps pious Christians will not choose
that their bodies should be buried near the corpse of a poor, unhappy
wretch like me. Then let me be laid in some remote valley, or near the
highway, where the priest and Levite may bless themselves as they pass
by my tomb, whilst the Samaritan will shed a tear for my fate.

"See, Charlotte, I do not shudder to take the cold and fatal cup, from
which I shall drink the draught of death. Your hand presents it to me,
and I do not tremble. All, all is now concluded: the wishes and the
hopes of my existence are fulfilled. With cold, unflinching hand I knock
at the brazen portals of Death. Oh, that I had enjoyed the bliss of
dying for you! how gladly would I have sacrificed myself for you;
Charlotte! And could I but restore peace and joy to your bosom, with
what resolution, with what joy, would I not meet my fate! But it is the
lot of only a chosen few to shed their blood for their friends, and by
their death to augment, a thousand times, the happiness of those by whom
they are beloved.

"I wish, Charlotte, to be buried in the dress I wear at present: it has
been rendered sacred by your touch. I have begged this favour of your
father. My spirit soars above my sepulchre. I do not wish my pockets to
be searched. The knot of pink ribbon which you wore on your bosom
the first time I saw you, surrounded by the children--Oh, kiss them a
thousand times for me, and tell them the fate of their unhappy friend! I
think I see them playing around me. The dear children! How warmly have
I been attached to you, Charlotte! Since the first hour I saw you, how
impossible have I found it to leave you. This ribbon must be buried
with me: it was a present from you on my birthday. How confused it all
appears! Little did I then think that I should journey this road. But
peace! I pray you, peace!

"They are loaded--the clock strikes twelve. I say amen. Charlotte,
Charlotte! farewell, farewell!"

A neighbour saw the flash, and heard the report of the pistol; but, as
everything remained quiet, he thought no more of it.

In the morning, at six o'clock, the servant went into Werther's room
with a candle. He found his master stretched upon the floor, weltering
in his blood, and the pistols at his side. He called, he took him in
his arms, but received no answer. Life was not yet quite extinct. The
servant ran for a surgeon, and then went to fetch Albert. Charlotte
heard the ringing of the bell: a cold shudder seized her. She wakened
her husband, and they both rose. The servant, bathed in tears faltered
forth the dreadful news. Charlotte fell senseless at Albert's feet.

When the surgeon came to the unfortunate Werther, he was still lying
on the floor; and his pulse beat, but his limbs were cold. The bullet,
entering the forehead, over the right eye, had penetrated the skull. A
vein was opened in his right arm: the blood came, and he still continued
to breathe.

From the blood which flowed from the chair, it could be inferred that he
had committed the rash act sitting at his bureau, and that he afterward
fell upon the floor. He was found lying on his back near the window. He
was in full-dress costume.

The house, the neighbourhood, and the whole town were immediately in
commotion. Albert arrived. They had laid Werther on the bed: his head
was bound up, and the paleness of death was upon his face. His limbs
were motionless; but he still breathed, at one time strongly, then
weaker--his death was momently expected.

He had drunk only one glass of the wine. "Emilia Galotti" lay open upon
his bureau.

I shall say nothing of Albert's distress, or of Charlotte's grief.

The old steward hastened to the house immediately upon hearing the news:
he embraced his dying friend amid a flood of tears. His eldest boys
soon followed him on foot. In speechless sorrow they threw themselves on
their knees by the bedside, and kissed his hands and face. The eldest,
who was his favourite, hung over him till he expired; and even then he
was removed by force. At twelve o'clock Werther breathed his last. The
presence of the steward, and the precautions he had adopted, prevented
a disturbance; and that night, at the hour of eleven, he caused the body
to be interred in the place which Werther had selected for himself.

The steward and his sons followed the corpse to the grave. Albert was
unable to accompany them. Charlotte's life was despaired of. The body
was carried by labourers. No priest attended.




LIFE AND CHARACTER


I

1

There is nothing worth thinking but it has been thought before; we must
only try to think it again.

2

How can a man come to know himself? Never by thinking, but by doing. Try
to do your duty, and you will know at once what you are worth.

3

But what is your duty? The claims of the day.

4

The world of reason is to be regarded as a great and immortal being, who
ceaselessly works out what is necessary, and so makes himself lord also
over what is accidental.

5

The longer I live, the more it grieves me to see man, who occupies his
supreme place for the very purpose of imposing his will upon nature, and
freeing himself and his from an outrageous necessity,--to see him taken
up with some false notion, and doing just the opposite of what he wants
to do; and then, because the whole bent of his mind is spoilt, bungling
miserably over everything.

6

Be genuine and strenuous; earn for yourself, and look for, grace from
those in high places; from the powerful, favour; from the active and
the good, advancement; from the many, affection; from the individual,
love.

7

Tell me with whom you associate, and I will tell you who you are. If I
know what your business is, I know what can be made of you.

8

Every man must think after his own fashion; for on his own path he finds
a truth, or a kind of truth, which helps him through life. But he must
not give himself the rein; he must control himself; mere naked instinct
does not become him.

9

Unqualified activity, of whatever kind, leads at last to bankruptcy.

10

In the works of mankind, as in those of nature, it is really the motive
which is chiefly worth attention.

11

Men get out of countenance with themselves and others because they treat
the means as the end, and so, from sheer doing, do nothing, or, perhaps,
just what they would have avoided.

12

Our plans and designs should be so perfect in truth and beauty, that in
touching them the world could only mar. We should thus have the
advantage of setting right what is wrong, and restoring what is
destroyed.

13

It is a very hard and troublesome thing to dispose of whole, half-, and
quarter-mistakes; to sift them and assign the portion of truth to its
proper place.

14

It is not always needful for truth to take a definite shape; it is
enough if it hovers about us like a spirit and produces harmony; if it
is wafted through the air like the sound of a bell, grave and kindly.

15

General ideas and great conceit are always in a fair way to bring about
terrible misfortune.

16

You cannot play the flute by blowing alone: you must use your fingers.

17

In Botany there is a species of plants called _Incompletæ_; and just in
the same way it can be said that there are men who are incomplete and
imperfect. They are those whose desires and struggles are out of
proportion to their actions and achievements.

18

The most insignificant man can be complete if he works within the limits
of his capacities, innate or acquired; but even fine talents can be
obscured, neutralised, and destroyed by lack of this indispensable
requirement of symmetry. This is a mischief which will often occur in
modern times; for who will be able to come up to the claims of an age so
full and intense as this, and one too that moves so rapidly?

19

It is only men of practical ability, knowing their powers and using them
with moderation and prudence, who will be successful in worldly affairs.

20

It is a great error to take oneself for more than one is, or for less
than one is worth.

21

From time to time I meet with a youth in whom I can wish for no
alteration or improvement, only I am sorry to see how often his nature
makes him quite ready to swim with the stream of the time; and it is on
this that I would always insist, that man in his fragile boat has the
rudder placed in his hand, just that he may not be at the mercy of the
waves, but follow the direction of his own insight.

22

But how is a young man to come of himself to see blame in things which
every one is busy with, which every one approves and promotes? Why
should he not follow his natural bent and go in the same direction as
they?

23

I must hold it for the greatest calamity of our time, which lets nothing
come to maturity, that one moment is consumed by the next, and the day
spent in the day; so that a man is always living from hand to mouth,
without having anything to show for it. Have we not already newspapers
for every hour of the day! A good head could assuredly intercalate one
or other of them. They publish abroad everything that every one does, or
is busy with or meditating; nay, his very designs are thereby dragged
into publicity. No one can rejoice or be sorry, but as a pastime for
others; and so it goes on from house to house, from city to city, from
kingdom to kingdom, and at last from one hemisphere to the other,--all
in post haste.

24

As little as you can stifle a steam-engine, so little can you do this in
the moral sphere either. The activity of commerce, the rush and rustle
of paper-money, the swelling-up of debts to pay debts--all these are
the monstrous elements to which in these days a young man is exposed.
Well is it for him if he is gifted by nature with a sober, quiet
temperament; neither to make claims on the world out of all proportion
to his position, nor yet let the world determine it.

25

But on all sides he is threatened by the spirit of the day, and nothing
is more needful than to make him see early enough the direction in which
his will has to steer.

26

The significance of the most harmless words and actions grows with the
years, and if I see any one about me for any length of time, I always
try to show him the difference there is between sincerity, confidence,
and indiscretion; nay, that in truth there is no difference at all, but
a gentle transition from what is most innocent to what is most hurtful;
a transition which must be perceived or rather felt.

27

Herein we must exercise our tact; otherwise in the very way in which we
have won the favour of mankind, we run the risk of trifling it away
again unawares. This is a lesson which a man learns quite well for
himself in the course of life, but only after having paid a dear price
for it; nor can he, unhappily, spare his posterity a like expenditure.

28

Love of truth shows itself in this, that a man knows how to find and
value the good in everything.

29

Character calls forth character.

30

If I am to listen to another man's opinion, it must be expressed
positively. Of things problematical I have enough in myself.

31

Superstition is a part of the very being of humanity; and when we fancy
that we are banishing it altogether, it takes refuge in the strangest
nooks and corners, and then suddenly comes forth again, as soon as it
believes itself at all safe.

32

I keep silence about many things, for I do not want to put people out of
countenance; and I am well content if they are pleased with things that
annoy me.

33

Everything that frees our spirit without giving us control of ourselves
is ruinous.

34

A man is really alive only when he delights in the good-will of others.

35

Piety is not an end, but a means: a means of attaining the highest
culture by the purest tranquillity of soul.

36

Hence it may be observed that those who set up piety as an end and
object are mostly hypocrites.

37

When a man is old he must do more than when he was young.

38

To fulfil a duty is still always to feel it as a debt, for it is never
quite satisfying to oneself.

39

Defects are perceived only by one who has no love; therefore, to see
them, a man must become uncharitable, but not more so than is necessary
for the purpose.

40

The greatest piece of good fortune is that which corrects our
deficiencies and redeems our mistakes.

41

Reading ought to mean understanding; writing ought to mean knowing
something; believing ought to mean comprehending; when you desire a
thing, you will have to take it; when you demand it, you will not get
it; and when you are experienced, you ought to be useful to others.

42

The stream is friendly to the miller whom it serves; it likes to pour
over the mill wheels; what is the good of it stealing through the valley
in apathy?

43

Whoso is content with pure experience and acts upon it has enough of
truth. The growing child is wise in this sense.

44

Theory is in itself of no use, except in so far as it makes us believe
in the connection of phenomena.

45

When a man asks too much and delights in complication, he is exposed to
perplexity.

46

Thinking by means of analogies is not to be condemned. Analogy has this
advantage, that it comes to no conclusion, and does not, in truth, aim
at finality at all. Induction, on the contrary, is fatal, for it sets up
an object and keeps it in view, and, working on towards it, drags false
and true with it in its train.

47

The absent works upon us by tradition. The usual form of it may be
called historical; a higher form, akin to the imaginative faculty, is
the mythical. If some third form of it is to be sought behind this last,
and it has any meaning, it is transformed into the mystical. It also
easily becomes sentimental, so that we appropriate to our use only what
suits us.

48

In contemplation as in action, we must distinguish between what may be
attained and what is unattainable. Without this, little can be achieved,
either in life or in knowledge.

49

_'Le sense commun est le génie de l'humanité.'_

Common-sense, which is here put forward as the genius of humanity, must
be examined first of all in the way it shows itself. If we inquire the
purpose to which humanity puts it, we find as follows: Humanity is
conditioned by needs. If they are not satisfied, men become impatient;
and if they are, it seems not to affect them. The normal man moves
between these two states, and he applies his understanding--his
so-called common-sense--to the satisfaction of his needs. When his needs
are satisfied, his task is to fill up the waste spaces of indifference.
Here, too, he is successful, if his needs are confined to what is
nearest and most necessary. But if they rise and pass beyond the sphere
of ordinary wants, common-sense is no longer sufficient; it is a genius
no more, and humanity enters on the region of error.

50

There is no piece of foolishness but it can be corrected by intelligence
or accident; no piece of wisdom but it can miscarry by lack of
intelligence or by accident.

51

Every great idea is a tyrant when it first appears; hence the advantages
which it produces change all too quickly into disadvantages. It is
possible, then, to defend and praise any institution that exists, if its
beginnings are brought to remembrance, and it is shown that everything
which was true of it at the beginning is true of it still.

52

Lessing, who chafed under the sense of various limitations, makes one of
his characters say: No one _must_ do anything. A clever pious man said:
If a man _wills_ something, he must do it. A third, who was, it is true,
an educated man, added: _Will_ follows upon _insight_. The whole circle
of _knowledge, will_, and _necessity_ was thus believed to have been
completed. But, as a rule, a man's knowledge, of whatever kind it may
be, determines what he shall do and what he shall leave undone, and so
it is that there is no more terrible sight than ignorance in action.

53

There are two powers that make for peace: what is right, and what is
fitting.

54

Justice insists on obligation, law on decorum. Justice weighs and
decides, law superintends and orders. Justice refers to the individual,
law to society.

55

The history of knowledge is a great fugue in which the voices of the
nations one after the other emerge.




II


56

If a man is to achieve all that is asked of him, he must take himself
for more than he is, and as long as he does not carry it to an absurd
length, we willingly put up with it.

57

Work makes companionship.

58

People whip curds to see if they cannot make cream of them.

59

It is much easier to put yourself in the position of a mind taken up
with the most absolute error, than of one which mirrors to itself
half-truths.

60

Wisdom lies only in truth.

61

When I err, every one can see it; but not when I lie.

62

Is not the world full enough of riddles already, without our making
riddles too out of the simplest phenomena?

63

'The finest hair throws a shadow.' _Erasmus_.

64

What I have tried to do in my life through false tendencies, I have at
last learned to understand.

65

Generosity wins favour for every one, especially when it is accompanied
by modesty.

66

Before the storm breaks, the dust rises violently for the last time--the
dust that is soon to be laid forever.

67

Men do not come to know one another easily, even with the best will and
the best purpose. And then ill-will comes in and distorts everything.

68

We should know one another better if one man were not so anxious to put
himself on an equality with another.

69

Eminent men are therefore in a worse plight than others; for, as we
cannot compare ourselves with them, we are on the watch for them.

70

In the world the point is, not to know men, but at any given moment to
be cleverer than the man who stands before you. You can prove this at
every fair and from every charlatan.

71

Not everywhere where there is water, are there frogs; but where you have
frogs, there you will find water.

72

Error is quite right as long as we are young, but we must not carry it
on with us into our old age.

Whims and eccentricities that grow stale are all useless, rank nonsense.

73

In the formation of species Nature gets, as it were, into a
_cul-de-sac_; she cannot make her way through, and is disinclined to
turn back. Hence the stubbornness of national character.

74

Every one has something in his nature which, if he were to express it
openly, would of necessity give offence.

75

If a man thinks about his physical or moral condition, he generally
finds that he is ill.

76

Nature asks that a man should sometimes be stupefied without going to
sleep; hence the pleasure in the smoking of tobacco, the drinking of
brandy, the use of opiates.

77

The man who is up and doing should see to it that what he does is right.
Whether or not right is done, is a matter which should not trouble him.

78

Many a man knocks about on the wall with his hammer, and believes that
he hits the right nail on the head every time.

79

Painting and tattooing of the body is a return to animalism.

80

History-writing is a way of getting rid of the past.

81

What a man does not understand, he does not possess.

82

Not every one who has a pregnant thought delivered to him becomes
productive; it probably makes him think of something with which he is
quite familiar.

83

Favour, as a symbol of sovereignty, is exercised by weak men.

84

Every man has enough power left to carry out that of which he is
convinced.

85

Memory may vanish so long as at the moment judgment does not fail you.

86

No nation gains the power of judgment except it can pass judgment on
itself. But to attain this great privilege takes a very long time.

87

Instead of contradicting my words people ought to act in my spirit.

88

Those who oppose intellectual truths do but stir up the fire, and the
cinders fly about and burn what they had else not touched.

89

Man would not be the finest creature in the world if he were not too
fine for it.

90

What a long time people were vainly disputing about the Antipodes!

91

Certain minds must be allowed their peculiarities.

92

Snow is false purity.

93

Whoso shrinks from ideas ends by having nothing but sensations.

94

Those from whom we are always learning are rightly called our masters;
but not every one who teaches us deserves this title.

95

It is with you as with the sea: the most varied names are given to what
is in the end only salt water.

96

It is said that vain self-praise stinks in the nostrils. That may be so;
but for the kind of smell which comes from unjust blame by others the
public has no nose at all.

97

There are problematical natures which are equal to no position in which
they find themselves, and which no position satisfies. This it is that
causes that hideous conflict which wastes life and deprives it of all
pleasure.

98

If we do any real good, it is mostly _clam, vi, et precario_.

99

Dirt glitters as long as the sun shines.

100

It is difficult to be just to the passing moment. We are bored by it if
it is neither good nor bad; but the good moment lays a task upon us, and
the bad moment a burden.

101

He is the happiest man who can set the end of his life in connection
with the beginning.

102

So obstinately contradictory is man that you cannot compel him to his
advantage, yet he yields before everything that forces him to his hurt.

103

Forethought is simple, afterthought manifold.

104

A state of things in which every day brings some new trouble is not the
right one.

105

When people suffer by failing to look before them, nothing is
commoner than trying to look out for some possible remedy.

106

The Hindoos of the Desert make a solemn vow to eat no fish.

107

To venture an opinion is like moving a piece at chess: it may be taken,
but it forms the beginning of a game that is won.

108

It is as certain as it is strange that truth and error come from one and
the same source. Thus it is that we are often not at liberty to do
violence to error, because at the same time we do violence to truth.

109

Truth belongs to the man, error to his age. This is why it has been said
that, while the misfortune of the age caused his error, the force of his
soul made him emerge from the error with glory.

110

Every one has his peculiarities and cannot get rid of them; and yet many
a one is destroyed by his peculiarities, and those too of the most
innocent kind.

111

If a man does think too much of himself, he is more than he believes
himself to be.

112

In art and knowledge, as also in deed and action, everything depends on
a pure apprehension of the object and a treatment of it according to its
nature.

113

When intelligent and sensible people despise knowledge in their old age,
it is only because they have asked too much of it and of themselves.

114

I pity those who make much ado about the transitory nature of all things
and are lost in the contemplation of earthly vanity: are we not here to
make the transitory permanent? This we can do only if we know how to
value both.

115

A rainbow which lasts a quarter of an hour is looked at no more.

116

It used to happen, and still happens, to me to take no pleasure in a
work of art at the first sight of it, because it is too much for me; but
if I suspect any merit in it, I try to get at it; and then I never fail
to make the most gratifying discoveries,--to find new qualities in the
work itself and new faculties in myself.

117

Faith is private capital, kept in one's own house. There are public
savings-banks and loan-offices, which supply individuals in their day of
need; but here the creditor quietly takes his interest for himself.

118

Real obscurantism is not to hinder the spread of what is true, clear,
and useful, but to bring into vogue what is false.

119

During a prolonged study of the lives of various men both great and
small, I came upon this thought: In the web of the world the one may
well be regarded as the warp, the other as the woof. It is the little
men, after all, who give breadth to the web, and the great men firmness
and solidity; perhaps, also, the addition of some sort of pattern. But
the scissors of the Fates determine its length, and to that all the rest
must join in submitting itself.

120

Truth is a torch, but a huge one, and so it is only with blinking eyes
that we all of us try to get past it, in actual terror of being burnt.

121

'The wise have much in common with one another.' _Æschylus_.

122

The really foolish thing in men who are otherwise intelligent is that
they fail to understand what another person says, when he does not
exactly hit upon the right way of saying it.

123

Because a man speaks, he thinks he is able to speak about language.

124

One need only grow old to become gentler in one's judgments. I see no
fault committed which I could not have committed myself.

125

The man who acts never has any conscience; no one has any conscience but
the man who thinks.

126

Why should those who are happy expect one who is miserable to die before
them in a graceful attitude, like the gladiator before the Roman mob?

127

Some one asked Timon about the education of his children. 'Let them,' he
said, 'be instructed in that which they will never understand.'

128

There are people whom I wish well, and would that I could wish better.

129

By force of habit we look at a clock that has run down as if it were
still going, and we gaze at the face of a beauty as though she still
loved.

130

Hatred is active displeasure, envy passive. We need not wonder that envy
turns so soon to hatred.


131

There is something magical in rhythm; it even makes us believe that we
possess the sublime.

132

Dilettantism treated seriously, and knowledge pursued mechanically, end
by becoming pedantry.

133

No one but the master can promote the cause of Art. Patrons help the
master,--that is right and proper; but that does not always mean that
Art is helped.

134

The most foolish of all errors is for clever young men to believe that
they forfeit their originality in recognising a truth which has already
been recognised by others.

135

Scholars are generally malignant when they are refuting others; and if
they think a man is making a mistake, they straightway look upon him as
their mortal enemy.

136

Beauty can never really understand itself.




III


137

It is much easier to recognise error than to find truth; for error lies
on the surface and may be overcome; but truth lies in the depths, and to
search for it is not given to every one.

138

We all live on the past, and through the past are destroyed.

139

We are no sooner about to learn some great lesson than we take refuge in
our own innate poverty of soul, and yet for all that the lesson has not
been quite in vain.

140

The world of empirical morality consists for the most part of nothing
but ill-will and envy.

141

Life seems so vulgar, so easily content with the commonplace things of
every day, and yet it always nurses and cherishes certain higher claims
in secret, and looks about for the means of satisfying them.

142

Confidences are strange things. If you listen only to one man, it is
possible that he is deceived or mistaken; if you listen to many, they
are in a like case; and, generally, you cannot get at the truth at all.

143

No one should desire to live in irregular circumstances; but if by
chance a man falls into them, they test his character and show of how
much determination he is capable.

144

An honourable man with limited ideas often sees through the rascality of
the most cunning jobber.

145

If a man feels no love, he must learn how to flatter; otherwise he will
not succeed.

146

Against criticism a man can neither protest nor defend himself; he must
act in spite of it, and then criticism will gradually yield to him.

147

The masses cannot dispense with men of ability, and such men are always
a burden to them.

148

If a man spreads my failings abroad, he is my master, even though he
were my servant.

149

Whether memoirs are written by masters of servants, or by servants of
masters, the processes always meet.

150

If you lay duties upon people and give them no rights, you must pay them
well.

151

I can promise to be sincere, but not to be impartial.

152

Ingratitude is always a kind of weakness. I have never known men of
ability to be ungrateful.

153

We are all so limited that we always think we are right; and so we may
conceive of an extraordinary mind which not only errs but has a positive
delight in error.

154

It is very rare to find pure and steady activity in the accomplishment
of what is good and right. We usually see pedantry trying to keep back,
and audacity trying to go on too fast.

155

Word and picture are correlatives which are continually in quest of each
other, as is sufficiently evident in the case of metaphors and similes.
So from all time what was said or sung inwardly to the ear had to be
presented equally to the eye. And so in childish days we see word and
picture in continual balance; in the book of the law and in the way of
salvation, in the Bible and in the spelling-book. When something was
spoken which could not be pictured, and something pictured which could
not be spoken, all went well; but mistakes were often made, and a word
was used instead of a picture; and thence arose those monsters of
symbolical mysticism, which are doubly an evil.

156

For the man of the world a collection of anecdotes and maxims is of the
greatest value, if he knows how to intersperse the one in his
conversation at fitting moments, and remember the other when a case
arises for their application.

157

When you lose interest in anything, you also lose the memory for it.

158

The world is a bell with a crack in it; it rattles, but does not ring.

159

The importunity of young dilettanti must be borne with good-will; for as
they grow old they become the truest worshippers of Art and the Master.

160

People have to become really bad before they care for nothing but
mischief, and delight in it.

161

Clever people are the best encyclopædia.

162

There are people who make no mistakes because they never wish to do
anything worth doing.

163

If I know my relation to myself and the outer world, I call it truth.
Every man can have his own peculiar truth; and yet it is always the
same.

164

No one is the master of any truly productive energy; and all men must
let it work on by itself.

165

A man never understands how anthropomorphic he is.

166

A difference which offers nothing to the understanding is no difference
at all.

167

A man cannot live for every one; least of all for those with whom he
would not care to live.

168

If a man sets out to study all the laws, he will have no time left to
transgress them.

169

Things that are mysterious are not yet miracles.

170

'Converts are not in my good books.'

171

A frivolous impulsive encouragement of problematical talents was a
mistake of my early years; and I have never been able to abandon it
altogether.

172

I should like to be honest with you, without our falling out; but it
will not do. You act wrongly, and fall between two stools; you win no
adherents and lose your friends. What is to be the end of it?

173

It is all one whether you are of high or of humble origin. You will
always have to pay for your humanity.

174

When I hear people speak of liberal ideas, it is always a wonder to me
that men are so readily put off with empty verbiage. An idea cannot be
liberal; but it may be potent, vigorous, exclusive, in order to fulfil
its mission of being productive. Still less can a concept be liberal;
for a concept has quite another mission. Where, however, we must look
for liberality, is in the sentiments; and the sentiments are the inner
man as he lives and moves. A man's sentiments, however, are rarely
liberal, because they proceed directly from him personally, and from his
immediate relations and requirements. Further we will not write, and let
us apply this test to what we hear every day.

175

If a clever man commits a folly, it is not a small one.

176

There is a poetry without figures of speech, which is a single figure of
speech.

177

I went on troubling myself about general ideas until I learnt to
understand the particular achievements of the best men.

178

It is only when a man knows little, that he knows anything at all. With
knowledge grows doubt.

179

The errors of a man are what make him really lovable.

180

There are men who love their like and seek it; others love their
opposite and follow after it.

181

If a man has always let himself think the world as bad as the adversary
represents it to be, he must have become a miserable person.

182

Ill-favour and hatred limit the spectator to the surface, even when keen
perception is added unto them; but when keen perception unites with
good-will and love, it gets at the heart of man and the world; nay, it
may hope to reach the highest goal of all.

183

Raw matter is seen by every one; the contents are found only by him who
has his eyes about him; and the form is a secret to the majority.

184

We may learn to know the world as we please: it will always retain a
bright and a dark side.

185

Error is continually repeating itself in action, and we must unweariedly
repeat the truth in word.

186

As in Rome there is, apart from the Romans, a population of statues, so
apart from this real world there is a world of illusion, almost more
potent, in which most men live.

187

Mankind is like the Red Sea: the staff has scarcely parted the waves
asunder, before they flow together again.

188

Thoughts come back; beliefs persist; facts pass by never to return.

189

Of all peoples, the Greeks have dreamt the dream of life the best.

190

We readily bow to antiquity, but not to posterity. It is only a father
that does not grudge talent to his son.

191

There is no virtue in subordinating oneself; but there is virtue in
descending, and in recognising anything as above us, which is beneath
us.

192

The whole art of living consists in giving up existence in order to
exist.

193

All our pursuits and actions are a wearying process. Well is it for him
who wearies not.

194

Hope is the second soul of the unhappy.

195

Love is a true renovator.

196

Mankind is not without a wish to serve; hence the chivalry of the French
is a servitude.

197

In the theatre the pleasure of what we see and hear restrains our
reflections.

198

There is no limit to the increase of experience, but theories cannot
become clearer and more complete in just the same sense. The field of
experience is the whole universe in all directions. Theory remains shut
up within the limits of the human faculties. Hence there is no way of
looking at the world, but it recurs, and the curious thing happens, that
with increased experience a limited theory may again come into favour.

It is always the same world which stands open to observation, which is
continually being contemplated or guessed at; and it is always the same
men who live in the true or in the false; more at their ease in the
latter than in the former.

199

Truth is at variance with our natures, but not so error; and for a very
simple reason. Truth requires us to recognise ourselves as limited, but
error flatters us with the belief that in one way or another we are
subject to no bounds at all.

200

That some men think they can still do what they have been able to do, is
natural enough; that others think they can do what they have never been
able to do, is singular, but not rare.

201

At all times it has not been the age, but individuals alone, who have
worked for knowledge. It was the age which put Socrates to death by
poison, the age which burnt Huss. The ages have always remained alike.

202

That is true Symbolism, where the more particular represents the more
general, not as a dream or shade, but as a vivid, instantaneous
revelation of the Inscrutable.

203

Everything of an abstract or symbolic nature, as soon as it is
challenged by realities, ends by consuming them and itself. So credit
consumes both money and itself.

204

Mastery often passes for egoism.

205

With Protestants, as soon as good works cease and their merit is denied,
sentimentality takes their place.

206

If a man knows where to get good advice, it is as though he could supply
it himself.

207

The use of mottoes is to indicate something we have not attained, but
strive to attain. It is right to keep them always before our eyes.

208

'If a man cannot lift a stone himself, let him leave it, even though he
has some one to help him.'

209

Despotism promotes general self-government, because from top to bottom
it makes the individual responsible, and so produces the highest degree
of activity.

210

A man must pay dear for his errors if he wishes to get rid of them, and
even then he is lucky.

211

Enthusiasm is of the greatest value, so long as we are not carried away
by it.

212

School itself is the only true preparation for it.

213

Error is related to truth as sleep to waking. I have observed that on
awakening from error a man turns again to truth as with new vigour.

214

Every one suffers who does not work for himself. A man works for others
to have them share in his joy.

215

Men's prejudices rest upon their character for the time being and cannot
be overcome, as being part and parcel of themselves. Neither evidence
nor common-sense nor reason has the slightest influence upon them.

216

Characters often make a law of their failings. Men who know the world
have said that when prudence is only fear in disguise, its scruples
cannot be conquered. The weak often have revolutionary sentiments; they
think they would be well off if they were not ruled, and fail to
perceive that they can rule neither themselves nor others.

217

Common-sense is born pure in the healthy man, is self-developed, and is
revealed by a resolute perception and recognition of what is necessary
and useful. Practical men and women avail themselves of it with
confidence. Where it is absent, both sexes find anything necessary when
they desire it, and useful when it gives them pleasure.

218

All men, as they attain freedom, give play to their errors. The strong
do too much, and the weak too little.

219

The conflict of the old, the existing, the continuing, with development,
improvement, and reform, is always the same. Order of every kind turns
at last to pedantry, and to get rid of the one, people destroy the
other; and so it goes on for a while, until people perceive that order
must be established anew. Classicism and Romanticism; close corporations
and freedom of trade; the maintenance of large estates and the division
of the land,--it is always the same conflict which ends by producing a
new one. The best policy of those in power would be so to moderate this
conflict as to let it right itself without the destruction of either
element. But this has not been granted to men, and it seems not to be
the will of God.

220

A great work limits us for the moment, because we feel it above our
powers; and only in so far as we afterwards incorporate it with our
culture, and make it part of our mind and heart, does it become a dear
and worthy object.

221

It is no wonder that we all more or less delight in the mediocre,
because it leaves us in peace: it gives us the comfortable feeling of
intercourse with what is like ourselves.

222

There is no use in reproving vulgarity, for it never changes.

223

We cannot escape a contradiction in ourselves; we must try to resolve
it. If the contradiction comes from others, it does not affect us: it is
their affair.

224

There are many things in the world that are at once good and excellent,
but they do not come into contact.

225

Which is the best government? That which teaches us to govern ourselves.

226

When men have to do with women, they get spun off like a distaff.

227

It may well be that a man is at times horribly threshed by misfortunes,
public and private: but the reckless flail of Fate, when it beats the
rich sheaves, crushes only the straw; and the corn feels nothing of it
and dances merrily on the floor, careless whether its way is to the mill
or the furrow.

228

However probable it is that a desire may be fulfilled, there is always a
doubt; and so when the desire is realised, it is always surprising.

229

Absurdities presented with good taste rouse disgust and admiration.

230

Of the best society it used to be said: their speech instructs the mind,
and their silence the feelings.

231

Nothing is more terrible than ignorance in action.

232

Beauty and Genius must be kept afar if one would avoid becoming their
slave.

233

We treat the aged with consideration, as we treat children.

234

An old man loses one of the greatest of human privileges: he is no more
judged by his peers.

235

In the matter of knowledge, it has happened to me as to one who rises
early, and in the dark impatiently awaits the dawn, and then the sun;
but is blinded when it appears.

236

Great primeval powers, evolved in time or in eternity, work on
unceasingly: whether to weal or to woe, is a matter of chance.




IV


237

People often say to themselves in life that they should avoid a variety
of occupation, and, more particularly, be the less willing to enter upon
new work the older they grow. But it is easy to talk, easy to give
advice to oneself and others. To grow old is itself to enter upon a new
business; all the circumstances change, and a man must either cease
acting altogether, or willingly and consciously take over the new rôle.

238

Of the Absolute in the theoretical sense, I do not venture to speak; but
this I maintain: that if a man recognises it in its manifestation, and
always keeps his gaze fixed upon it, he will experience very great
reward.

239

To live in a great idea means to treat the impossible as though it were
possible. It is just the same with a strong character; and when an idea
and a character meet, things arise which fill the world with wonder for
thousands of years.

240

Napoleon lived wholly in a great idea, but he was unable to take
conscious hold of it. After utterly disavowing all ideals and denying
them any reality, he zealously strove to realise them. His clear,
incorruptible intellect could not, however, tolerate such a perpetual
conflict within; and there is much value in the thoughts which he was
compelled, as it were, to utter, and which are expressed very peculiarly
and with much charm.

241

He considered the idea as a thing of the mind, that had, it is true, no
reality, but still, on passing away, left a residuum--a _caput
mortuum_--to which some reality could not be altogether refused. We may
think this a very perverse and material notion; but when he entertained
his friends with the neverending consequences of his life and actions,
in full belief and confidence in them, he expressed himself quite
differently. Then, indeed, he was ready to admit that life produces
life; that a fruitful act has effects to all time. He took pleasure in
confessing that he had given a great impulse, a new direction, to the
course of the world's affairs.

242

It always remains a very remarkable fact that men whose whole
personality is almost all idea, are so extremely shy of all phantasy. In
this case was Hamann, who could not bear the mention of "things of
another world." He took occasion to express himself on this point in a
certain paragraph, which he wrote in fourteen different ways; and still,
apparently, he was never quite satisfied with it.

Two of these attempts have been preserved to us; a third we have
ourselves attempted, which we are induced to print here by the preceding
observations.

243

Man is placed as a real being in the midst of a real world, and endowed
with such organs that he can perceive and produce the real and also the
possible.

All healthy men have the conviction of their own existence and of an
existence around them. However, even the brain contains a hollow spot,
that is to say, a place in which no object is mirrored; just as in the
eye itself there is a little spot that does not see. If a man pays
particular attention to this spot and is absorbed in it, he falls into a
state of mental sickness, has presentiments of "things of another
world," which are, in reality, no things at all; possessing neither form
nor limit, but alarming him like dark, empty tracts of night, and
pursuing him as something more than phantoms, if he does not tear
himself free from them.

244

To the several perversities of the day a man should always oppose only
the great masses of universal history.

245

No one can live much with children without finding that they always
react to any outward influence upon them.

246

With any specially childish nature the reaction is even passionate,
while its action is energetic.

247

That is why children's lives are a series of refined judgments, not to
say prejudices; and to efface a rapid but partial perception in order to
make way for a more general one, time is necessary. To bear this in mind
is one of the teacher's greatest duties.

248

Friendship can only be bred in practice and be maintained by practice.
Affection, nay, love itself, is no help at all to friendship. True,
active, productive friendship consists in keeping equal pace in life: in
my friend approving my aims, while I approve his, and in thus moving
forwards together steadfastly, however much our way of thought and life
may vary.




V


249

In the world people take a man at his own estimate; but he must estimate
himself at something. Disagreeableness is more easily tolerated than
insignificance.

250

You can force anything on society so long as it has no sequel.

251

We do not learn to know men if they come to us; we must go to them to
find out what they are.

252

That we have many criticisms to make on those who visit us, and that, as
soon as they depart, we pass no very amiable judgment upon them, seems
to me almost natural; for we have, so to speak, a right to measure them
by our own standard. Even intelligent and fair-minded men hardly refrain
from sharp censure on such occasions.

253

But if, on the contrary, we have been in their homes, and have seen them
in their surroundings and habits and the circumstances which are
necessary and inevitable for them; if we have seen the kind of influence
they exert on those around them, or how they behave, it is only
ignorance and ill-will that can find food for ridicule in what must
appear to us in more than one sense worthy of respect.

254

What we call conduct and good manners obtains for us that which
otherwise is to be obtained only by force, or not even by force.

255

Women's society is the element of good manners.

256

How can the character, the peculiar nature of a man, be compatible with
good manners?

257

It is through his good manners that a man's peculiar nature should be
made all the more conspicuous. Every one likes distinction, but it
should not be disagreeable.

258

The most privileged position, in life as in society, is that of an
educated soldier. Rough warriors, at any rate, remain true to their
character, and as great strength is usually the cover for good nature,
we get on with them at need.

259

No one is more troublesome than an awkward civilian. As his business is
not with anything brutal or coarse, he might be expected to show
delicacy of feeling.

260

When we live with people who have a delicate sense of what is fitting,
we get quite anxious about them if anything happens to disturb this
sense.

261

No one would come into a room with spectacles on his nose, if he knew
that women at once lose any inclination to look at or talk to him.

262

A familiar in the place of a respectful demeanour is always ridiculous.

263

There is no outward sign of politeness that will be found to lack some
deep moral foundation. The right kind of education would be that which
conveyed the sign and the foundation at the same time.

264

A man's manners are the mirror in which he shows his portrait.

263

There is a politeness of the heart, and it is allied to love. It
produces the most agreeable politeness of outward demeanour.

266

Voluntary dependence is the best state, and how should that be possible
without love?

267

We are never further from our wishes than when we fancy we possess the
object of them.

268

No one is more of a slave than he who thinks himself free without being
so.

269

A man has only to declare himself free to feel at the same moment that
he is limited. Should he venture to declare himself limited, he feels
himself free.

270

Against the great superiority of another there is no remedy but love.

271

It is a terrible thing for an eminent man to be gloried in by fools.

272

It is said that no man is a hero to his valet. That is only because a
hero can be recognised only by a hero. The valet will probably know how
to appreciate his like,--his fellow-valet.

273

There is no greater consolation for mediocrity than that the genius is
not immortal.

274

The greatest men are linked to their age by some weak point.

275

We generally take men to be more dangerous than they are.

276

Fools and wise folk are alike harmless. It is the half-wise, and the
half-foolish, who are the most dangerous.

277

To see a difficult thing lightly handled gives us the impression of the
impossible.

278

Difficulties increase the nearer we come to our aim.

279

Sowing is not so painful as reaping.

280

We are fond of looking to the future, because our secret wishes make us
apt to turn in our favour the uncertainties which move about in it
hither and thither.

281

It is not easy to be in any great assembly without thinking that the
chance which brings so many people together will also make us meet our
friends.

282

A man may live never so retired a life but he becomes a debtor or a
creditor before he is aware of it.

283

If anyone meets us who owes us a debt of gratitude, it immediately
crosses our mind. How often can we meet some one to whom we owe
gratitude, without thinking of it!

284

To communicate oneself is Nature; to receive a communication as it is
given is Culture.

285

No one would speak much in society if he were aware how often we
misunderstand others.

286

It is only because we have not understood a thing that we cannot repeat
it without alteration.

287

To make a long speech in the presence of others without flattering your
audience, is to rouse dislike.

288

Every word that we utter rouses its contrary.

289

Contradiction and flattery make, both of them, bad conversation.

290

The pleasantest society is that in which there exists a genial deference
amongst the members one towards another.

291

By nothing do men show their character more than by the things they
laugh at.

292

The ridiculous springs from a moral contrast innocently presented to the
senses.

293

The sensual man often laughs when there is nothing to laugh at. Whatever
it is that moves him, he shows that he is pleased with himself.

294

An intelligent man finds almost everything ridiculous, a wise man hardly
anything.

295

A man well on in years was reproved for still troubling himself about
young women. 'It is the only means,' he replied, 'of regaining one's
youth; and that is something every one wishes to do.'

296

A man does not mind being blamed for his faults, and being punished for
them, and he patiently suffers much for the sake of them; but he becomes
impatient if he is required to give them up.

297

Certain faults are necessary to the individual if he is to exist. We
should not like old friends to give up certain peculiarities.

298

It is said of a man that he will soon die, when he acts in any way
unlike himself.

299

What kind of faults in ourselves should we retain, nay, even cultivate?
Those which rather flatter other people than offend them.

300

The passions are good or bad qualities, only intensified.

301

Our passions are, in truth, like the phoenix. When the old one burns
away, the new one rises out of its ashes at once.

302

Great passions are hopeless diseases. That which could cure them is the
first thing to make them really dangerous.

303

Passion is enhanced and tempered by avowal. In nothing, perhaps, is the
middle course more desirable than in confidence and reticence towards
those we love.

304

To sit in judgment on the departed is never likely to be equitable. We
all suffer from life; who except God can call us to account? Let not
their faults and sufferings, but what they have accomplished and done,
occupy the survivors.

305

It is failings that show human nature, and merits that distinguish the
individual; faults and misfortunes we all have in common; virtues belong
to each one separately.




VI


306

The secret places in the way of life may not and cannot be revealed:
there are rocks of offence on which every traveller must stumble. But
the poet points to where they are.

307

It would not be worth while to see seventy years if all the wisdom of
this world were foolishness with God.

308

The true is Godlike: we do not see it itself; we must guess at it
through its manifestations.

309

The real scholar learns how to evolve the unknown from the known, and
draws near the master.

310

In the smithy the iron is softened by blowing up the fire, and taking
the dross from the bar. As soon as it is purified, it is beaten and
pressed, and becomes firm again by the addition of fresh water. The same
thing happens to a man at the hands of his teacher.

311

What belongs to a man, he cannot get rid of, even though he throws it
away.

312

Of true religions there are only two: one of them recognises and
worships the Holy that without form or shape dwells in and around us;
and the other recognises and worships it in its fairest form. Everything
that lies between these two is idolatry.

313

It is undeniable that in the Reformation the human mind tried to free
itself; and the renaissance of Greek and Roman antiquity brought about
the wish and longing for a freer, more seemly, and elegant life. The
movement was favoured in no small degree by the fact that men's hearts
aimed at returning to a certain simple state of nature, while the
imagination sought to concentrate itself.

314

The Saints were all at once driven from heaven; and senses, thought, and
heart were turned from a divine mother with a tender child, to the grown
man doing good and suffering evil, who was later transfigured into a
being half-divine in its nature, and then recognised and honoured as God
himself. He stood against a background where the Creator had opened out
the universe; a spiritual influence went out from him; his sufferings
were adopted as an example, and his transfiguration was the pledge of
everlastingness.

315

As a coal is revived by incense, so prayer revives the hopes of the
heart.

316

From a strict point of view we must have a reformation of ourselves
every day, and protest against others, even though it be in no religious
sense.

317

It should be our earnest endeavour to use words coinciding as closely as
possible with what we feel, see, think, experience, imagine, and reason.
It is an endeavour which we cannot evade, and which is daily to be
renewed.

Let every man examine himself, and he will find this a much harder task
than he might suppose; for, unhappily, a man usually takes words as mere
make-shifts; his knowledge and his thought are in most cases better
than his method of expression.

False, irrelevant, and futile ideas may arise in ourselves and others,
or find their way into us from without. Let us persist in the effort to
remove them as far as we can, by plain and honest purpose.

318

As we grow older, the ordeals grow greater.

319

Where I cannot be moral, my power is gone.

320

A man is not deceived by others, he deceives himself.

321

Laws are all made by old people and by men. Youths and women want the
exceptions, old people the rules.

322

It is not the intelligent man who rules, but intelligence; not the wise
man, but wisdom.

323

To praise a man is to put oneself on his level.

324

It is not enough to know, we must also apply; it is not enough to will,
we must also do.

325

Chinese, Indian, and Egyptian antiquities are never more than
curiosities; it is well to make acquaintance with them; but in point of
moral and æsthetic culture they can help us little.

326

The German runs no greater danger than to advance with and by the
example of his neighbours. There is perhaps no nation that is fitter for
the process of self-development; so that it has proved of the greatest
advantage to Germany to have obtained the notice of the world so late.

327

Even men of insight do not see that they try to explain things which lie
at the foundation of our experience, and in which we must simply
acquiesce.

Yet still the attempt may have its advantage, as otherwise we should
break off our researches too soon.

328

From this time forward, if a man does not apply himself to some art or
handiwork, he will be in a bad way. In the rapid changes of the world,
knowledge is no longer a furtherance; by the time a man has taken note
of everything, he has lost himself.

329

Besides, in these days the world forces universal culture upon us, and
so we need not trouble ourselves further about it; we must appropriate
some particular culture.

330

The greatest difficulties lie where we do not look for them.

331

Our interest in public events is mostly the merest philistinism.

332

Nothing is more highly to be prized than the value of each day.

333

_Pereant qui ante nos nostra dixerunt!_ This is so strange an utterance,
that it could only have come from one who fancied himself autochthonous.
The man who looks upon it as an honour to be descended from wise
ancestors, will allow them at least as much common-sense as he allows
himself.

334

Strictly speaking, everything depends upon a man's intentions; where
these exist, thoughts appear; and as the intentions are, so are the
thoughts.

335

If a man lives long in a high position, he does not, it is true,
experience all that a man can experience; but he experiences things like
them, and perhaps some things that have no parallel elsewhere.




VII


336

The first and last thing that is required of genius is love of truth.

337

To be and remain true to oneself and others, is to possess the noblest
attribute of the greatest talents.

338

Great talents are the best means of conciliation.

339

The action of genius is in a way ubiquitous: towards general truths
before experience, and towards particular truths after it.

340

An active scepticism is one which constantly aims at overcoming itself,
and arriving by means of regulated experience at a kind of conditioned
certainty.

341

The general nature of the sceptical mind is its tendency to inquire
whether any particular predicate really attaches to any particular
object; and the purpose of the inquiry is safely to apply in practice
what has thus been discovered and proved.

342

The mind endowed with active powers and keeping with a practical object
to the task that lies nearest, is the worthiest there is on earth.

343

Perfection is the measure of heaven, and the wish to be perfect the
measure of man.

344

Not only what is born with him, but also what he acquires, makes the
man.

345

A man is well equipped for all the real necessities of life if he trusts
his senses, and so cultivates them that they remain worthy of being
trusted.

346

The senses do not deceive; it is the judgment that deceives.

347

The lower animal is taught by its organs; man teaches his organs, and
dominates them.

348

All direct invitation to live up to ideals is of doubtful value,
particularly if addressed to women. Whatever the reason of it may be, a
man of any importance collects round him a seraglio of a more or less
religious, moral, and æsthetic character.

349

When a great idea enters the world as a Gospel, it becomes an offence to
the multitude, which stagnates in pedantry; and to those who have much
learning but little depth, it is folly.

350

Every idea appears at first as a strange visitor, and when it begins to
be realised, it is hardly distinguishable from phantasy and phantastery.

351

This it is that has been called, in a good and in a bad sense, ideology;
and this is why the ideologist is so repugnant to the hard-working,
practical man of every day.

352

You may recognise the utility of an idea, and yet not quite understand
how to make a perfect use of it.

353

_Credo Deum!_ That is a fine, a worthy thing to say; but to recognise
God where and as he reveals himself, is the only true bliss on earth.

354

Kepler said: 'My wish is that I may perceive the God whom I find
everywhere in the external world, in like manner also within and inside
me.' The good man was not aware that in that very moment the divine in
him stood in the closest connection with the divine in the Universe.

355

What is predestination? It is this: God is mightier and wiser than we
are, and so he does with us as he pleases.

356

Toleration should, strictly speaking, be only a passing mood; it ought
to lead to acknowledgment and appreciation. To tolerate a person is to
affront him.

357

Faith, Love, and Hope once felt, in a quiet sociable hour, a plastic
impulse in their nature; they worked together and created a lovely
image, a Pandora in the higher sense, Patience.

358

'I stumbled over the roots of the tree which I planted.' It must have
been an old forester who said that.

359

A leaf blown by the wind often looks like a bird.

360

Does the sparrow know how the stork feels?

361

Lamps make oil-spots, and candles want snuffing; it is only the light of
heaven that shines pure and leaves no stain.

362

If you miss the first button-hole, you will not succeed in buttoning up
your coat.

363

A burnt child dreads the fire; an old man who has often been singed is
afraid of warming himself.

364

It is not worth while to do anything for the world that we have with us,
as the existing order may in a moment pass away. It is for the past and
the future that we must work: for the past, to acknowledge its merits;
for the future, to try to increase its value.

365

Let every man ask himself with which of his faculties he can and will
somehow influence his age.

366

Let no one think that people have waited for him as for the Saviour.

367

Character in matters great and small consists in a man steadily pursuing
the things of which he feels himself capable.

368

The man who wants to be active and has to be so, need only think of what
is fitting at the moment, and he will make his way without difficulty.
This is where women have the advantage, if they understand it.

369

The moment is a kind of public; a man must deceive it into believing
that he is doing something; then it leaves us alone to go our way in
secret; whereat its grandchildren cannot fail to be astonished.

370

There are men who put their knowledge in the place of insight.

371

In some states, as a consequence of the violent movements experienced in
almost all directions, there has come about a certain overpressure in
the system of education, the harm of which will be more generally felt
hereafter; though even now it is perfectly well recognised by capable
and honest authorities. Capable men live in a sort of despair over the
fact that they are bound by the rules of their office to teach and
communicate things which they look upon as useless and hurtful.

372

There is no sadder sight than the direct striving after the
unconditioned in this thoroughly conditioned world.

373

Before the Revolution it was all _effort_; afterwards it all changed to
_demand_.

374

Can a nation become ripe? That is a strange question. I would answer,
Yes! if all the men could be born thirty years of age. But as youth will
always be too forward and old age too backward, the really mature man is
always hemmed in between them, and has to resort to strange devices to
make his way through.

375

It does not look well for monarchs to speak through the press, for power
should act and not talk. The projects of the liberal party always bear
being read: the man who is overpowered may at least express his views in
speech, because he cannot act. When Mazarin was shown some satirical
songs on a new tax, 'Let them sing,' said he, 'as long as they pay.'

376

Vanity is a desire of personal glory, the wish to be appreciated,
honoured, and run after, not because of one's personal qualities,
merits, and achievements, but because of one's individual existence. At
best, therefore, it is a frivolous beauty whom it befits.

377

The most important matters of feeling as of reason, of experience as of
reflection, should be treated of only by word of mouth. The spoken word
at once dies if it is not kept alive by some other word following on it
and suited to the hearer. Observe what happens in social converse. If
the word is not dead when it reaches the hearer, he murders it at once
by a contradiction, a stipulation, a condition, a digression, an
interruption, and all the thousand tricks of conversation. With the
written word the case is still worse. No one cares to read anything to
which he is not already to some extent accustomed: he demands the known
and the familiar under an altered form. Still the written word has this
advantage, that it lasts and can await the time when it is allowed to
take effect.

378

Both what is reasonable and what is unreasonable have to undergo the
like contradiction.

379

Dialectic is the culture of the spirit of contradiction, which is given
to man that he may learn to perceive the differences between things.

380

With those who are really of like disposition with himself a man cannot
long be at variance; he will always come to an agreement again. With
those who are really of adverse disposition, he may in vain try to
preserve harmony; he will always come to a separation again.

381

Opponents fancy they refute us when they repeat their own opinion and
pay no attention to ours.

382

People who contradict and dispute should now and then remember that not
every mode of speech is intelligible to every one.

383

Every man hears only what he understands.

384

I am quite prepared to find that many a reader will disagree with me;
but when he has a thing before him in black and white, he must let it
stand. Another reader may perhaps take up the very same copy and agree
with me.

385

The truest liberality is appreciation.

386

For the strenuous man the difficulty is to recognise the merits of elder
contemporaries and not let himself be hindered by their defects.

387

Some men think about the defects of their friends, and there is nothing
to be gained by it. I have always paid attention to the merits of my
enemies, and found it an advantage.

388

There are many men who fancy they understand whatever they experience.

389

The public must be treated like women: they must be told absolutely
nothing but what they like to hear.

390

Every age of man has a certain philosophy answering to it. The child
comes out as a realist: he finds himself as convinced that pears and
apples exist as that he himself exists. The youth in a storm of inner
passion is forced to turn his gaze within, and feel in advance what he
is going to be: he is changed into an idealist. But the man has every
reason to become a sceptic: he does well to doubt whether the means he
has chosen to his end are the right ones. Before and during action he
has every reason for keeping his understanding mobile, that he may not
afterwards have to grieve over a false choice. Yet when he grows old he
will always confess himself a mystic: he sees that so much seems to
depend on chance; that folly succeeds and wisdom fails; that good and
evil fortune are brought unexpectedly to the same level; so it is and so
it has been, and old age acquiesces in that which is and was and will
be.

391

When a man grows old he must consciously remain at a certain stage.

392

It does not become an old man to run after the fashion, either in
thought or in dress. But he must know where he is, and what the others
are aiming at.

What is called fashion is the tradition of the moment. All tradition
carries with it a certain necessity for people to put themselves on a
level with it.

393

We have long been busy with the critique of reason. I should like to see
a critique of common-sense. It would be a real benefit to mankind if we
could convincingly prove to the ordinary intelligence how far it can go;
and that is just as much as it fully requires for life on this earth.

394

The thinker makes a great mistake when he asks after cause and effect:
they both together make up the indivisible phenomenon.

395

All practical men try to bring the world under their hands; all
thinkers, under their heads. How far each succeeds, they may both see
for themselves.

396

Shall we say that a man thinks only when he cannot think out that of
which he is thinking?

397

What is invention or discovery? It is the conclusion of what we were
looking for.

398

It is with history as with nature and with everything of any depth, it
may be past, present, or future: the further we seriously pursue it, the
more difficult are the problems that appear. The man who is not afraid
of them, but attacks them bravely, has a feeling of higher culture and
greater ease the further he progresses.

399

Every phenomenon is within our reach if we treat it as an inclined
plane, which is of easy ascent, though the thick end of the wedge may be
steep and inaccessible.

400

If a man would enter upon some course of knowledge, he must either be
deceived or deceive himself, unless external necessity irresistibly
determines him. Who would become a physician if, at one and the same
time, he saw before him all the horrible sights that await him?

401

How many years must a man do nothing before he can at all know what is
to be done and how to do it!

402

Duty: where a man loves what he commands himself to do.




LITERATURE AND ART


403

When Madame Roland was on the scaffold, she asked for pen and paper, to
note the peculiar thoughts that hovered about her on the last journey.
It is a pity they were refused, for in a tranquil mind thoughts rise up
at the close of life hitherto unthinkable; like blessed inward voices,
alighting in glory on the summits of the past.

404

Literature is a fragment of fragments: the least of what happened and
was spoken, has been written; and of the things that have been written,
very few have been preserved.

405

And yet, with all the fragmentary nature of literature, we find thousand
fold repetition; which shows how limited is man's mind and destiny.

406

Excellent work is unfathomable, approach it as you will.

407

It is not language in itself which is correct or forcible or elegant,
but the mind that is embodied in it; and so it is not for a man to
determine whether he will give his calculations or speeches or poems the
desired qualities: the question is whether Nature has given him the
intellectual and moral qualities which fit him for the work,--the
intellectual power of observation and insight, the moral power of
repelling the evil spirits that might hinder him from paying respect to
truth.

408

The appeal to posterity springs from the pure, strong feeling of the
existence of something imperishable; something that, even though it be
not at once recognised, will in the end be gratified by finding the
minority turn into a majority.

409

When a new literature succeeds, it obscures the effect of an earlier
one, and its own effect predominates; so that it is well, from time to
time, to look back. What is original in us is best preserved and
quickened if we do not lose sight of those who have gone before us.

410

The most original authors of modern times are so, not because they
produce what is new, but only because they are able to say things the
like of which seem never to have been said before.

411

Thus the best sign of originality lies in taking up a subject and then
developing it so fully as to make every one confess that he would hardly
have found so much in it.

412

There are many thoughts that come only from general culture, like buds
from green branches. When roses bloom, you see them blooming everywhere.

413

Lucidity is a due distribution of light and shade.' _Hamann_.

414

A man who has no acquaintance with foreign languages knows nothing of
his own.

415

We must remember that there are many men who, without being productive,
are anxious to say something important, and the results are most
curious.

416

Deep and earnest thinkers are in a difficult position with regard to the
public.

417

Some books seem to have been written, not to teach us anything, but to
let us know that the author has known something.

418

An author can show no greater respect for his public than by never
bringing it what it expects, but what he himself thinks right and proper
in that stage of his own and others' culture in which for the time he
finds himself.

419

The so-called Nature-poets are men of active talent, with a fresh
stimulus and reaction from an over-cultured, stagnant, mannered epoch of
art. They cannot avoid commonplace.

420

Productions are now possible which, without being bad, have no value.
They have no value, because they contain nothing; and they are not bad,
because a general form of good-workmanship is present to the author's
mind.

421

All lyrical work must, as a whole, be perfectly intelligible, but in
some particulars a little unintelligible.

422

A romance is a subjective epic in which the author begs leave to treat
the world after his own ideas. The only question is, whether he has any
ideas; the rest will follow of itself.

423

Subjective or so-called sentimental poetry has now been admitted to an
equality with objective and descriptive. This was inevitable; because
otherwise the whole of modern poetry would have to be discarded. It is
now obvious that when men of truly poetical genius appear, they will
describe more of the particular feelings of the inner life than of the
general facts of the great life of the world. This has already taken
place to such a degree that we have a poetry without figures of speech,
which can by no means be refused all praise.

424

Superstition is the poetry of life, and so it does not hurt the poet to
be superstitious.

425

That glorious hymn, _Veni Creator Spiritus_, is really an appeal to
genius. That is why it speaks so powerfully to men of intellect and
power.

426

Translators are like busy match-makers: they sing the praises of some
half-veiled beauty, and extol her charms, and arouse an irresistible
longing for the original.

427

A Spinoza in poetry becomes a Machiavelli in philosophy.

428

Against the three unities there is nothing to be said, if the subject is
very simple; but there are times when thrice three unities, skilfully
interwoven, produce a very pleasant effect.

429

The sentimentality of the English is humorous and tender; of the French,
popular and pathetic; of the Germans, naïve and realistic.

430

Mysticism is the scholastic of the heart, the dialectic of the feelings.

431

If a man sets out to reproach an author with obscurity, he should first
of all examine his own mind, to see if he is himself all clearness
within. Twilight makes even plain writing illegible.

432

It is with books as with new acquaintances. At first we are highly
delighted, if we find a general agreement,--if we are pleasantly moved
on any of the chief sides of our existence. With a closer acquaintance
differences come to light; and then reasonable conduct mainly consists
in not shrinking back at once, as may happen in youth, but in keeping
firm hold of the things in which we agree, and being quite clear about
the things in which we differ, without on that account desiring any
union.

433

In psychological reflection the greatest difficulty is this: that inner
and outer must always be viewed in parallel lines, or, rather,
interwoven. It is a continual systole and diastole, an inspiration and
an expiration of the living soul. If this cannot be put into words, it
should be carefully marked and noted.

434

My relations with Schiller rested on the decided tendency of both of us
towards a single aim, and our common activity rested on the diversity of
the means by which we endeavoured to attain that aim.

435

Once when a slight difference was mentioned between us, of which I was
reminded by a passage in a letter of his, I made the following
reflections: There is a great difference between a poet seeking the
particular for the universal, and seeing the universal in the
particular. The one gives rise to Allegory, where the particular serves
only as instance or example of the general; but the other is the true
nature of Poetry, namely, the expression of the particular without any
thought of, or reference to, the general. If a man grasps the particular
vividly, he also grasps the general, without being aware of it at the
time; or he may make the discovery long afterwards.

436

There may be eclectic philosophers, but not an eclectic philosophy.

437

But every one is an eclectic who, out of the things that surround and
take place about him, appropriates what is suited to his nature; and
this is what is meant by culture and progress, in matters of theory or
practice.

438

Various maxims of the ancients, which we are wont to repeat again and
again, had a meaning quite different from that which is apt to attach to
them in later times.

439

The saying that no one who is unacquainted with or a stranger to
geometry should enter the philosopher's school, does not mean that a man
must become a mathematician to attain the wisdom of the world.

440

Geometry is here taken in its primary elements, such as are contained in
Euclid and laid before every beginner; and then it is the most perfect
propædeutic and introduction to philosophy.

441

When a boy begins to understand that an invisible point must always come
before a visible one, and that the shortest way between two points is a
straight line, before he can draw it on his paper with a pencil, he
experiences a certain pride and pleasure. And he is not wrong; for he
has the source of all thought opened to him; idea and reality, _potentia
et actu_, are become clear; the philosopher has no new discovery to
bring him; as a mathematician, he has found the basis of all thought for
himself.

442

And if we turn to that significant utterance, _Know thyself_, we must
not explain it in an ascetic sense. It is in nowise the self-knowledge
of our modern hypochondrists, humorists, and self-tormentors. It simply
means: pay some attention to yourself; take note of yourself; so that
you may know how you come to stand towards those like you and towards
the world. This involves no psychological torture; every capable man
knows and feels what it means. It is a piece of good advice which every
one will find of the greatest advantage in practice.

443

Let us remember how great the ancients were; and especially how the
Socratic school holds up to us the source and standard of all life and
action, and bids us not indulge in empty speculation, but live and do.

444

So long as our scholastic education takes us back to antiquity and
furthers the study of the Greek and Latin languages, we may congratulate
ourselves that these studies, so necessary for the higher culture, will
never disappear.

445

If we set our gaze on antiquity and earnestly study it, in the desire to
form ourselves thereon, we get the feeling as if it were only then that
we really became men.

446

The pedagogue, in trying to write and speak Latin, has a higher and
grander idea of himself than would be permissible in ordinary life.

447

In the presence of antiquity, the mind that is susceptible to poetry and
art feels itself placed in the most pleasing ideal state of nature; and
even to this day the Homeric hymns have the power of freeing us, at any
rate, for moments, from the frightful burden which the tradition of
several thousand years has rolled upon us.

448

There is no such thing as patriotic art and patriotic science. Both art
and science belong, like all things great and good, to the whole world,
and can be furthered only by a free and general interchange of ideas
among contemporaries, with continual reference to the heritage of the
past as it is known to us.

449

Poetical talent is given to peasant as well as to knight; all that is
required is that each shall grasp his position and treat it worthily.

450

An historic sense means a sense so cultured that, in valuing the deserts
and merits of its own time, it takes account also of the past.

451

The best that history gives us is the enthusiasm it arouses.

452

The historian's duty is twofold: first towards himself, then towards his
readers. As regards himself, he must carefully examine into the things
that could have happened; and, for the reader's sake, he must determine
what actually did happen. His action towards himself is a matter between
himself and his colleagues; but the public must not see into the secret
that there is little in history which can be said to be positively
determined.

453

The historian's duty is to separate the true from the false, the certain
from the uncertain, and the doubtful from that which cannot be accepted.

454

It is seldom that any one of great age becomes historical to himself,
and finds his contemporaries become historical to him, so that he
neither cares nor is able to argue with any one.

455

On a closer examination of the matter, it will be found that the
historian does not easily grasp history as something historical. In
whatever age he may live, the historian always writes as though he
himself had been present at the time of which he treats, instead of
simply narrating the facts and movements of that time. Even the mere
chronicler only points more or less to his own limitations, or the
peculiarities of his town or monastery or age.

456

We really learn only from those books which we cannot criticise. The
author of a book which we could criticise would have to learn from us.

457

That is the reason why the Bible will never lose its power; because, as
long as the world lasts, no one can stand up and say: I grasp it as a
whole and understand all the parts of it. But we say humbly: as a whole
it is worthy of respect, and in all its parts it is applicable.

458

There is and will be much discussion as to the use and harm of
circulating the Bible. One thing is clear to me: mischief will result,
as heretofore, by using it phantastically as a system of dogma; benefit,
as heretofore, by a loving acceptance of its teachings.

459

I am convinced that the Bible will always be more beautiful the more it
is understood; the more, that is, we see and observe that every word
which we take in a general sense and apply specially to ourselves, had,
under certain circumstances of time and place, a peculiar, special, and
directly individual reference.

460

The incurable evil of religious controversy is that while one party
wants to connect the highest interest of humanity with fables and
phrases, the other tries to rest it on things that satisfy no one.

461

If one has not read the newspapers for some months and then reads them
all together, one sees, as one never saw before, how much time is wasted
with this kind of literature.

462

The classical is health; and the romantic, disease.

463

Ovid remained classical even in exile: it is not in himself that he sees
misfortune, but in his banishment from the metropolis of the world.

464

The romantic is already fallen into its own abysm. It is hard to imagine
anything more degraded than the worst of the new productions.

465

Bodies which rot while they are still alive, and are edified by the
detailed contemplation of their own decay; dead men who remain in the
world for the ruin of others, and feed their death on the living,--to
this have come our makers of literature.

When the same thing happened in antiquity, it was only as a strange
token of some rare disease; but with the moderns the disease has become
endemic and epidemic.

466

Literature decays only as men become more and more corrupt.

467

What a day it is when we must envy the men in their graves!

468

The things that are true, good, excellent, are simple and always alike,
whatever their appearance may be. But the error that we blame is
extremely manifold and varying; it is in conflict not only with the good
and the true, but also with itself; it is self-contradictory. Thus it is
that the words of blame in our literature must necessarily outnumber the
words of praise.

469

The Greeks, whose poetry and rhetoric was of a simple and positive
character, express approval more often than disapproval. With the Latin
writers it is the contrary; and the more poetry and the arts of speech
decay, the more will blame swell and praise shrink.

470

'What are tragedies but the versified passions of people who make Heaven
knows what out of the external world?'

471

There are certain empirical enthusiasts who are quite right in showing
their enthusiasm over new productions that are good; but they are as
ecstatic as if there were no other good work in the world at all.

472

In _Sakontala_ the poet appears in his highest function. As the
representative of the most natural condition of things, the finest mode
of life, the purest moral endeavour, the worthiest majesty, and the most
solemn worship, he ventures on common and ridiculous contrasts.

473

Shakespeare's _Henry IV_. If everything were lost that has ever been
preserved to us of this kind of writing, the arts of poetry and rhetoric
could be completely restored out of this one play.

474

Shakespeare's finest dramas are wanting here and there in facility: they
are something more than they should be, and for that very reason
indicate the great poet.

475

Shakespeare is dangerous reading for budding talents: he compels them to
reproduce him, and they fancy they are producing themselves.

476

Yorick Sterne was the finest spirit that ever worked. To read him is to
attain a fine feeling of freedom; his humour is inimitable, and it is
not every kind of humour that frees the soul.

477

The peculiar value of so-called popular ballads is that their motives
are drawn direct from nature. This, however, is an advantage of which
the poet of culture could also avail himself, if he knew how to do it.

478

But in popular ballads there is always this advantage, that in the art
of saying things shortly uneducated men are always better skilled than
those who are in the strict sense of the word educated.

479

_Gemüth = Heart_. The translator must proceed until he reaches the
untranslatable; and then only will he have an idea of the foreign nation
and the foreign tongue.

480

When we say of a landscape that it has a romantic character, it is the
secret feeling of the sublime taking the form of the past, or, what is
the same thing, of solitude, absence, or seclusion.

481

The Beautiful is a manifestation of secret laws of nature, which,
without its presence, would never have been revealed.

482

It is said: Artist, study nature! But it is no trifle to develop the
noble out of the commonplace, or beauty out of uniformity.

483

When Nature begins to reveal her open secret to a man, he feels an
irresistible longing for her worthiest interpreter, Art.

484

For all other Arts we must make some allowance; but to Greek Art alone
we are always debtors.

485

There is no surer way of evading the world than by Art; and no surer way
of uniting with it than by Art.

486

Even in the moments of highest happiness and deepest misery we need the
Artist.

487

False tendencies of the senses are a kind of desire after realism,
always better than that false tendency which expresses itself as
idealistic longing.

488

The dignity of Art appears perhaps most conspicuously in Music; for in
Music there is no material to be deducted. It is wholly form and
intrinsic value, and it raises and ennobles all that it expresses.

489

It is only by Art, and especially by Poetry, that the imagination is
regulated. Nothing is more frightful than imagination without taste.

490

If we were to despise Art on the ground that it is an imitation of
Nature, it might be answered that Nature also imitates much else;
further, that Art does not exactly imitate that which can be seen by the
eyes, but goes back to that element of reason of which Nature consists
and according to which Nature acts.

491

Further, the Arts also produce much out of themselves, and, on the other
hand, add much where Nature fails in perfection, in that they possess
beauty in themselves. So it was that Pheidias could sculpture a god
although he had nothing that could be seen by the eye to imitate, but
grasped the appearance which Zeus himself would have if he were to come
before our eyes.

492

Art rests upon a kind of religious sense: it is deeply and ineradicably
in earnest. Thus it is that Art so willingly goes hand in hand with
Religion.

493

A noble philosopher spoke of architecture as _frozen music_; and it was
inevitable that many people should shake their heads over his remark. We
believe that no better repetition of this fine thought can be given than
by calling architecture a _speechless music_.

494

Art is essentially noble; therefore the artist has nothing to fear from
a low or common subject. Nay, by taking it up, he ennobles it; and so it
is that we see the greatest artists boldly exercising their sovereign
rights.

495

In every artist there is a germ of daring, without which no talent is
conceivable.

496

All the artists who are already known to me from so many sides, I
propose to consider exclusively from the ethical side; to explain from
the subject-matter and method of their work the part played therein by
time and place, nation and master, and their own indestructible
personality; to mould them to what they became and to preserve them in
what they were.

497

Art is a medium of what no tongue can utter; and thus it seems a piece
of folly to try to convey its meaning afresh by means of words. But, by
trying to do so, the understanding gains; and this, again, benefits the
faculty in practice.

498

An artist who produces valuable work is not always able to give an
account of his own or others' performances.

499

We know of no world except in relation to mankind; and we wish for no
Art that does not bear the mark of this relation.

500

Higher aims are in themselves more valuable, even if unfulfilled, than
lower ones quite attained.

501

Blunt naïvety, stubborn vigour, scrupulous observance of rule, and any
other epithets which may apply to older German Art, are a part of every
earlier and simpler artistic method. The older Venetians, Florentines,
and others had it all too.

502

Because Albrecht Dürer, with his incomparable talent, could never rise
to the idea of the symmetry of beauty, or even to the thought of a
fitting conformity to the object in view, are we never to spurn the
ground!

503

Albrecht Dürer had the advantage of a very profound realistic
perception, an affectionate human sympathy with all present conditions.
He was kept back by a gloomy phantasy, devoid both of form and
foundation.

504

It would be interesting to show how Martin Schön stands near him, and
how the merits of German Art were restricted to these two; and useful
also to show that it was not evening every day.

505

In every Italian school the butterfly breaks loose from the chrysalis.

506

After Klopstock released us from rhyme, and Voss gave us models of
prose, are we to make doggerel again like Hans Sachs?

507

Let us be many-sided! Turnips are good, but they are best mixed with
chestnuts. And these two noble products of the earth grow far apart.

508

In every kind of Art there is a degree of excellence which may be
reached, so to speak, by the mere use of one's own natural talents. But
at the same time it is impossible to go beyond that point, unless Art
comes to one's aid.

509

In the presence of Nature even moderate talent is always possessed of
insight; hence drawings from Nature that are at all carefully done
always give pleasure.

510

To make many sketches issue at last in a complete work is something that
not even the best artists always achieve.

511

In the sphere of true Art there is no preparatory school, but there is a
way of preparation; and the best preparation is the interest of the most
insignificant pupil in the work of the master. Colour-grinders have
often made excellent painters.

512

If an artist grasps Nature aright and contrives to give its form a
nobler, freer grace, no one will understand the source of his
inspiration, and every one will swear that he has taken it from the
antique.

513

In studying the human form, let the painter reject what is exaggerated,
false, and mechanical; but let him learn to grasp of what infinite grace
the human body is capable.

514

Kant taught us the critique of the reason. We must have a critique of
the senses if Art in general, and especially German Art, is ever to
regain its tone and move forward on the path of life and happiness.




SCIENCE


515

In the sphere of natural science let us remember that we have always to
deal with an insoluble problem. Let us prove keen and honest in
attending to anything which is in any way brought to our notice, most of
all when it does not fit in with our previous ideas. For it is only
thereby that we perceive the problem, which does indeed lie in nature,
but still more in man.

516

A man cannot well stand by himself, and so he is glad to join a party;
because if he does not find rest there, he at any rate finds quiet and
safety.

517

It is a misfortune to pass at once from observation to conclusion, and
to regard both as of equal value; but it befalls many a student.

518

In the history of science and throughout the whole course of its
progress we see certain epochs following one another more or less
rapidly. Some important view is expressed, it may be original or only
revived; sooner or later it receives recognition; fellow workers spring
up; the outcome of it finds its way into the schools; it is taught and
handed down; and we observe, unhappily, that it does not in the least
matter whether the view be true or false. In either case its course is
the same; in either case it comes in the end to be a mere phrase, a
lifeless word stamped on the memory.

519

First let a man teach himself, and then he will be taught by others.

520

Theories are usually the over-hasty efforts of an impatient
understanding that would gladly be rid of phenomena, and so puts in
their place pictures, notions, nay, often mere words. We may surmise, or
even see quite well, that such theories are make-shifts; but do not
passion and party-spirit love a make-shift at all times? And rightly,
too, because they stand in so much need of it.

521

It is difficult to know how to treat the errors of the age. If a man
oppose them, he stands alone; if he surrender to them, they bring him
neither joy nor credit.

522

There are some hundred Christian sects, every one of them acknowledging
God and the Lord in its own way, without troubling themselves further
about one another. In the study of nature, nay, in every study, things
must of necessity come to the same pass. For what is the meaning of
every one speaking of toleration, and trying to prevent others from
thinking and expressing themselves after their own fashion?

523

To communicate knowledge by means of analogy appears to me a process
equally useful and pleasant. The analogous case is not there to force
itself on the attention or prove anything; it offers a comparison with
some other case, but is not in union with it. Several analogous cases do
not join to form a seried row: they are like good society, which always
suggests more than it grants.

524

To err is to be as though truth did not exist. To lay bare the error to
oneself and others is retrospective discovery.

525

With the growth of knowledge our ideas must from time to time be
organised afresh. The change takes place usually in accordance with new
maxims as they arise, but it always remains provisional.

526

When we find facts within our knowledge exhibited by some new method, or
even, it may be, described in a foreign language, they receive a
peculiar charm of novelty and wear a fresh air.

527

If two masters of the same art differ in their statement of it, in all
likelihood the insoluble problem lies midway between them.

528

The orbits of certainties touch one another; but in the interstices
there is room enough for error to go forth and prevail.

529

We more readily confess to errors, mistakes, and shortcomings in our
conduct than in our thought.

530

And the reason of it is that the conscience is humble and even takes a
pleasure in being ashamed. But the intellect is proud, and if forced to
recant is driven to despair.

531

This also explains how it is that truths which have been recognised are
at first tacitly admitted, and then gradually spread, so that the very
thing which was obstinately denied appears at last as something quite
natural.

532

Ignorant people raise questions which were answered by the wise
thousands of years ago.

533

When a man sees a phenomenon before him, his thoughts often range beyond
it; when he hears it only talked about, he has no thoughts at all.

534

Authority. Man cannot exist without it, and yet it brings in its train
just as much of error as of truth. It perpetuates one by one things
which should pass away one by one; it rejects that which should be
preserved and allows it to pass away; and it is chiefly to blame for
mankind's want of progress.

535

Authority--the fact, namely, that something has already happened or been
said or decided, is of great value; but it is only a pedant who demands
authority for everything.

536

An old foundation is worthy of all respect, but it must not take from us
the right to build afresh wherever we will.

537

Our advice is that every man should remain in the path he has struck out
for himself, and refuse to be overawed by authority, hampered by
prevalent opinion, or carried away by fashion.

538

The various branches of knowledge always tend as a whole to stray away
from life, and return thither only by a roundabout way.

539

For they are, in truth, text-books of life: they gather outer and inner
experiences into a general and connected whole.

540

An important fact, an ingenious _aperçu_, occupies a very great number
of men, at first only to make acquaintance with it; then to understand
it; and afterwards to work it out and carry it further.

541

On the appearance of anything new the mass of people ask: What is the
use of it? And they are not wrong. For it is only through the use of
anything that they can perceive its value.

542

The truly wise ask what the thing is in itself and in relation to other
things, and do not trouble themselves about the use of it,--in other
words, about the way in which it may be applied to the necessities of
existence and what is already known. This will soon be discovered by
minds of a very different order--minds that feel the joy of living, and
are keen, adroit, and practical.

543

Every investigator must before all things look upon himself as one who
is summoned to serve on a jury. He has only to consider how far the
statement of the case is complete and clearly set forth by the evidence.
Then he draws his conclusion and gives his vote, whether it be that his
opinion coincides with that of the foreman or not.

544

And in acting thus he remains equally at ease whether the majority agree
with him or he finds himself in a minority. For he has done what he
could: he has expressed his convictions; and he is not master of the
minds or hearts of others.

545

In the world of science, however, these sentiments have never been of
much account. There everything depends on making opinion prevail and
dominate; few men are really independent; the majority draws the
individual after it.

546

The history of philosophy, of science, of religion, all shows that
opinions spread in masses, but that that always comes to the front which
is more easily grasped, that is to say, is most suited and agreeable to
the human mind in its ordinary condition. Nay, he who has practised
self-culture in the higher sense may always reckon upon meeting an
adverse majority.

547

There is much that is true which does not admit of being calculated;
just as there are a great many things that cannot be brought to the test
of a decisive experiment.

548

It is just for this that man stands so high, that what could not
otherwise be brought to light should be brought to light in him.

What is a musical string, and all its mechanical division, in comparison
with the musician's ear? May we not also say, what are the elementary
phenomena of nature itself compared with man, who must control and
modify them all before he can in any way assimilate them to himself?

549

To a new truth there is nothing more hurtful than an old error.

550

The ultimate origin of things is completely beyond our faculties; hence
when we see anything come into being, we look upon it as having been
already there. This is why we find the theory of _emboîtement_
intelligible.

551

There are many problems in natural science on which we cannot fittingly
speak unless we call metaphysics to our aid; but not the wisdom of the
schools, which consists in mere verbiage. It is that which was before
physics, exists with it, and will be after it.

552

Since men are really interested in nothing but their own opinions, every
one who puts forward an opinion looks about him right and left for means
of strengthening himself and others in it. A man avails himself of the
truth so long as it is serviceable; but he seizes on what is false with
a passionate eloquence as soon as he can make a momentary use of it;
whether it be to dazzle others with it as a kind of half-truth, or to
employ it as a stopgap for effecting an apparent union between things
that have been disjointed. This experience at first caused me annoyance,
and then sorrow; and now it is a source of mischievous satisfaction. I
have pledged myself never again to expose a proceeding of this kind.

553

Everything that we call Invention or Discovery in the higher sense of
the word is the serious exercise and activity of an original feeling for
truth, which, after a long course of silent cultivation, suddenly
flashes out into fruitful knowledge. It is a revelation working from
within on the outer world, and lets a man feel that he is made in the
image of God. It is a synthesis of World and Mind, giving the most
blessed assurance of the eternal harmony of things.

554

A man must cling to the belief that the incomprehensible is
comprehensible; otherwise he would not try to fathom it.

555

There are pedants who are also rascals, and they are the worst of all.

556

A man does not need to have seen or experienced everything himself. But
if he is to commit himself to another's experiences and his way of
putting them, let him consider that he has to do with three things--the
object in question and two subjects.

557

The supreme achievement would be to see that stating a fact is starting
a theory.

558

If I acquiesce at last in some ultimate fact of nature, it is, no doubt,
only resignation; but it makes a great difference whether the
resignation takes place at the limits of human faculty, or within the
hypothetical boundaries of my own narrow individuality.

559

If we look at the problems raised by Aristotle, we are astonished at his
gift of observation. What wonderful eyes the Greeks had for many things!
Only they committed the mistake of being over-hasty, of passing
straightway from the phenomenon to the explanation of it, and thereby
produced certain theories that are quite inadequate. But this is the
mistake of all times, and still made in our own day.

560

Hypotheses are cradle-songs by which the teacher lulls his scholars to
sleep. The thoughtful and honest observer is always learning more and
more of his limitations; he sees that the further knowledge spreads, the
more numerous are the problems that make their appearance.

561

Our mistake is that we doubt what is certain and want to establish what
is uncertain. My maxim in the study of Nature is this: hold fast what is
certain and keep a watch on what is uncertain.

562

What a master a man would be in his own subject if he taught nothing
useless!

563

The greatest piece of folly is that every man thinks himself compelled
to hand down what people think they have known.

564

If many a man did not feel obliged to repeat what is untrue, because he
has said it once, the world would have been quite different.

565

Every man looks at the world lying ready before him, ordered and
fashioned into a complete whole, as after all but an element out of
which his endeavour is to create a special world suited to himself.
Capable men lay hold of the world without hesitation and try to shape
their course as best they can; others dally over it, and some doubt even
of their own existence.

The man who felt the full force of this fundamental truth would dispute
with no one, but look upon another's mode of thought equally with his
own, as merely a phenomenon. For we find almost daily that one man can
think with ease what another cannot possibly think at all; and that,
too, not in matters which might have some sort of effect upon their
common weal or woe, but in things which cannot touch them at all.

566

There is nothing more odious than the majority; it consists of a few
powerful men to lead the way; of accommodating rascals and submissive
weaklings; and of a mass of men who trot after them, without in the
least knowing their own mind.

567

When I observe the luminous progress and expansion of natural science in
modern times, I seem to myself like a traveller going eastwards at dawn,
and gazing at the growing light with joy, but also with impatience;
looking forward with longing to the advent of the full and final light,
but, nevertheless, having to turn away his eyes when the sun appeared,
unable to bear the splendour he had awaited with so much desire.

568

We praise the eighteenth century for concerning itself chiefly with
analysis. The task remaining to the nineteenth is to discover the false
syntheses which prevail, and to analyse their contents anew.

569

A school may be regarded as a single individual who talks to himself for
a hundred years, and takes an extraordinary pleasure in his own being,
however foolish and silly it may be.

570

In science it is a service of the highest merit to seek out those
fragmentary truths attained by the ancients, and to develop them
further.

571

If a man devotes himself to the promotion of science, he is firstly
opposed, and then he is informed that his ground is already occupied. At
first men will allow no value to what we tell them, and then they behave
as if they knew it all themselves.

572

Nature fills all space with her limitless productivity. If we observe
merely our own earth, everything that we call evil and unfortunate is so
because Nature cannot provide room for everything that comes into
existence, and still less endow it with permanence.

573

Everything that comes into being seeks room for itself and desires
duration: hence it drives something else from its place and shortens its
duration.

574

There is so much of cryptogamy in phanerogamy that centuries will not
decipher it.

575

What a true saying it is that he who wants to deceive mankind must
before all things make absurdity plausible.

576

The further knowledge advances, the nearer we come to the unfathomable:
the more we know how to use our knowledge, the better we see that the
unfathomable is of no practical use.

577

The finest achievement for a man of thought is to have fathomed what may
be fathomed, and quietly to revere the unfathomable.

578

The discerning man who acknowledges his limitations is not far off
perfection.

579

There are two things of which a man cannot be careful enough: of
obstinacy if he confines himself to his own line of thought; of
incompetency, if he goes beyond it.

580

Incompetency is a greater obstacle to perfection than one would think.

581

The century advances; but every individual begins anew.

582

What friends do with us and for us is a real part of our life; for it
strengthens and advances our personality. The assault of our enemies is
not part of our life; it is only part of our experience; we throw it off
and guard ourselves against it as against frost, storm, rain, hail, or
any other of the external evils which may be expected to happen.

583

A man cannot live with every one, and therefore he cannot live for every
one. To see this truth aright is to place a high value upon one's
friends, and not to hate or persecute one's enemies. Nay, there is
hardly any greater advantage for a man to gain than to find out, if he
can, the merits of his opponents: it gives him a decided ascendency over
them.

584

Every one knows how to value what he has attained in life; most of all
the man who thinks and reflects in his old age. He has a comfortable
feeling that it is something of which no one can rob him.

585

The best metempsychosis is for us to appear again in others.

586

It is very seldom that we satisfy ourselves; all the more consoling is
it to have satisfied others.

587

We look back upon our life only as on a thing of broken pieces, because
our misses and failures are always the first to strike us, and outweigh
in our imagination what we have done, and attained.

588

The sympathetic youth sees nothing of this; he reads, enjoys, and uses
the youth of one who has gone before him, and rejoices in it with all
his heart, as though he had once been what he now is.

589

Science helps us before all things in this, that it somewhat lightens
the feeling of wonder with which Nature fills us; then, however, as life
becomes more and more complex, it creates new facilities for the
avoidance of what would do us harm and the promotion of what will do us
good.

590

It is always our eyes alone, our way of looking at things. Nature alone
knows what she means now, and what she had meant in the past.




NATURE: APHORISMS


Nature! We are surrounded by her and locked in her clasp: powerless to
leave her, and powerless to come closer to her. Unasked and unwarned she
takes us up into the whirl of her dance, and hurries on with us till we
are weary and fall from her arms.

She creates new forms without end: what exists now, never was before;
what was, comes not again; all is new and yet always the old.

We live in the midst of her and are strangers. She speaks to us
unceasingly and betrays not her secret. We are always influencing her
and yet can do her no violence.

Individuality seems to be all her aim, and she cares nought for
individuals. She is always building and always destroying, and her
workshop is not to be approached.

Nature lives in her children only, and the mother, where is she? She is
the sole artist,--out of the simplest materials the greatest diversity;
attaining, with no trace of effort, the finest perfection, the closest
precision, always softly veiled. Each of her works has an essence of its
own; every shape that she takes is in idea utterly isolated; and yet all
forms one.

She plays a drama; whether she sees it herself, we know not; and yet she
plays it for us, who stand but a little way off.

There is constant life in her, motion and development; and yet she
remains where she was. She is eternally changing, nor for a moment does
she stand still. Of rest she knows nothing, and to all stagnation she
has affixed her curse. She is steadfast; her step is measured, her
exceptions rare, her laws immutable.

She has thought, and she ponders unceasingly; not as a man, but as
Nature. The meaning of the whole she keeps to herself, and no one can
learn it of her.

Men are all in her, and she in all men. With all she plays a friendly
game, and rejoices the more a man wins from her. With many her game is
so secret, that she brings it to an end before they are aware of it.

Even what is most unnatural is Nature; even the coarsest Philistinism
has something of her genius. Who does not see her everywhere, sees her
nowhere aright.

She loves herself, and clings eternally to herself with eyes and hearts
innumerable. She has divided herself that she may be her own delight.
She is ever making new creatures spring up to delight in her, and
imparts herself insatiably.

She rejoices in illusion. If a man destroys this in himself and others,
she punishes him like the hardest tyrant. If he follows her in
confidence, she presses him to her heart as it were her child.

Her children are numberless. To no one of them is she altogether
niggardly; but she has her favourites, on whom she lavishes much, and
for whom she makes many a sacrifice. Over the great she has spread the
shield of her protection.

She spurts forth her creatures out of nothing, and tells them not whence
they come and whither they go. They have only to go their way: she knows
the path.

Her springs of action are few, but they never wear out: they are always
working, always manifold.

The drama she plays is always new, because she is always bringing new
spectators. Life is her fairest invention, and Death is her device for
having life in abundance.

She envelops man in darkness, and urges him constantly to the light. She
makes him dependent on the earth, heavy and sluggish, and always rouses
him up afresh.

She creates wants, because she loves movement. How marvellous that she
gains it all so easily! Every want is a benefit, soon satisfied, soon
growing again. If she gives more, it is a new source of desire; but the
balance quickly rights itself.

Every moment she starts on the longest journeys, and every moment
reaches her goal.

She amuses herself with a vain show; but to us her play is
all-important.

She lets every child work at her, every fool judge of her, and thousands
pass her by and see nothing; and she has her joy in them all, and in
them all finds her account.

Man obeys her laws even in opposing them: he works with her even when he
wants to work against her.

Everything she gives is found to be good, for first of all she makes it
indispensable. She lingers, that we may long for presence; she hurries
by, that we may not grow weary of her.

Speech or language she has none; but she creates tongues and hearts
through which she feels and speaks.

Her crown is Love. Only through Love can we come near her. She puts
gulfs between all things, and all things strive to be interfused. She
isolates everything, that she may draw everything together. With a few
draughts from the cup of Love she repays for a life full of trouble.

She is all things. She rewards herself and punishes herself; and in
herself rejoices and is distressed. She is rough and gentle, loving and
terrible, powerless and almighty. In her everything is always present.
Past or Future she knows not. The Present is her Eternity. She is kind.
I praise her with all her works. She is wise and still. No one can force
her to explain herself, or frighten her into a gift that she does not
give willingly. She is crafty, but for a good end; and it is best not to
notice her cunning.

She is whole and yet never finished. As she works now, so can she work
for ever.

To every one she appears in a form of his own. She hides herself in a
thousand names and terms, and is always the same.

She has placed me in this world; she will also lead me out of it. I
trust myself to her. She may do with me as she pleases. She will not
hate her work. I did not speak of her. No! what is true and what is
false, she has spoken it all. Everything is her fault, everything is her
merit.







LETTERS FROM SWITZERLAND.


When, a few years ago, the copies of the following letters were first
made known to us, it was asserted that they had been found among
Werther's papers, and it was pretended that before his acquaintance
with Charlotte, he had been in Switzerland. We have never seen the
originals: however we would not on any account anticipate the judgment
and feelings of our readers; for whatever may be their true history, it
is impossible to read them without sympathy.




PART THE FIRST.


How do all my descriptions disgust me, when I read them over. Nothing
but your advice, your command, your injunction could have induced me
to attempt anything of the kind. How many descriptions, too, of these
scenes had I not read before I saw them. Did these, then, afford me
an image of them,--or at best but a mere vague notion? In vain did
my imagination attempt to bring the objects before it; in vain did
my mind try to think upon them. Here I now stand contemplating these
wonders, and what are my feelings in the midst of them? I can think
of nothing--I can feel nothing,--and how willingly would I both think
and feel. The glorious scene before me excites my soul to its inmost
depths, and impels me to be doing; and yet what can I do--what do
I? I set myself down and scribble and describe!--Away with you, ye
descriptions--delude my friend--make him believe that I am doing
something--that he sees and reads something.

       *       *       *       *       *

Were, then, these Switzers free? Free, these opulent burghers in their
little pent-up towns--free, those poor devils on their rocks and crags?
What is it that man cannot be made to believe, especially when he
cherishes in his heart the memory of some old tale of marvel? Once,
forsooth, they did break a tyrant's yoke, and might for the moment
fancy themselves free; but out of the carcase of the single oppressor
the good sun, by a strange new birth, has hatched a swarm of petty
tyrants. And so now they are ever telling that old tale of marvel: one
hears it till one is sick of it. They formerly made themselves free,
and have ever since remained free! and now they sit behind their walls,
hugging themselves with their customs and laws--their philandering and
philistering. And there, too, on the rocks, it is surely fine to talk
of liberty, when for six months of the year they, like the marmot, are
bound hand and foot by the snow.

       *       *       *       *       *

Alas! how wretched must any work of man look, in the midst of this
great and glorious Nature, but especially such sorry, poverty-stricken
works as these black and dirty little towns--such mean heaps of stones
and rubbish! Large rubble and other stones on the roofs too, that the
miserable thatch may not be carried off from the top of them,--and
then the filth, the dung, and the gaping idiots! When here you meet
with man and the wretched work of his hands, you are glad to fly away
immediately from both.

       *       *       *       *       *

That there are in man very many intellectual capacities which in this
life he is unable to develope, which therefore point to a better
future, and to a more harmonious state of existence: on this point we
are both agreed. But further than this I cannot give up that other
fancy of mine, even though on account of it you may again call me, as
you have so often done already, a mere enthusiast. For my part, I do
think that man feels conscious also of corporeal qualities, of whose
mature expansion he can have no hope in this life. This most assuredly
is the case with "_flying._" How strongly at one time used the clouds,
as they drove along the blue sky, to tempt me to travel with them to
foreign lands! and now in what danger do I stand, lest they should
carry me away with them from the mountain peak as they sweep violently
by. What desire do I not feel to throw myself into the boundless
regions of the air--to poise over the terrific abyss, or to alight on
some otherwise inaccessible rock. With what a longing do I draw deeper
and deeper breath, when, in the dark blue depth below, the eagle soars
over rocks and forests, or in company, and in sweet concord with his
mate, wheels in wide circles round the eyrie to which he has entrusted
his young. Must I then never do more than creep up to the summits? Must
I always go on clinging to the highest rocks, as well as to the lowest
plain; and when I have at last, with much toil, reached the desired
eminence, must I still anxiously grasp at every holding place, shudder
at the thought of return, and tremble at the chance of a fall.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Fancies and feelings.]

With what wonderful properties are we not born,--what vague aspirations
rise within us! How rarely do imagination and our bodily powers work
in opposition! Peculiarities of my early boyhood again recur. While I
am walking, and have a long road before me, my arms go dangling by my
side, I often make a grasp, as if I would seize a javelin, and hurl it
I know not at whom, or what; and then I fancy an arrow is shot at me
which pierces me to the heart; I strike my hand upon my breast, and
feel an inexpressible sweetness; and then after this I soon revert to
my natural state. Whence comes this strange phenomenon,--what is the
meaning of it? and why does it invariably recur under the same figures,
in the same bodily movement, and with the same sensation?

       *       *       *       *       *

I am repeatedly told that the people who have met me on my journey are
little satisfied with me. I can readily believe it, for neither has
any one of them contributed to my satisfaction. I cannot tell how it
comes to pass, that society oppresses me; that the forms of politeness
are disagreeable to me--that what people talk about does not interest
me,--that all that they show to me is either quite indifferent, or
else produces quite an opposite impression to what they expect. When
I am shown a drawing or painting of any beautiful spot, immediately a
feeling of disquiet arises within me which is utterly inexpressible.
My toes within my shoes begin to bend, as if they would clutch the
ground-a cramp-like motion runs through my fingers. I bite my lips,
and I hasten to leave the company I am in, and throw myself down
in the presence of the majesty of nature on the first seat however
inconvenient. I try to take in the scene before me with my eye--to
seize all its beauties, and on the spot I love to cover a whole
sheet with scratches, which represent nothing exactly, but which,
nevertheless, possess an infinite value in my eyes, as serving to
remind me of the happy moment, whose bliss even this bungling exercise
could not mar. What means, then, this strange effort to pass from art
to nature, and then back again from nature to art: If it gives promise
of an artist, why is steadiness wanting to me? If it calls me to
enjoyment, wherefore, then, am I not able to seize it? I lately had a
present of a basket of fruit. I was in raptures at the sight of it as
of something heavenly,--such riches, such abundance, such variety and
yet such affinity! I could not persuade myself to pluck off a single
berry--I could not bring myself to take a single peach or a fig. Most
assuredly this gratification of the eye and the inner sense is the
highest and most worthy of man; in all probability it is the design
of Nature, when the hungry and thirsty believe that she has exhausted
herself in marvels merely for the gratification of their palate.
Ferdinand came and found me in the midst of these meditations: he did
me justice, and then said, smiling, but with a deep sigh, "Yes, we are
not worthy to consume these glorious products of Nature; truly it were
a pity. Permit me to make a present of them to my beloved?" How glad
was I to see the basket carried off! How did I love Ferdinand--how did
I thank him for the feeling he had excited in me--for the prospect he
gave me? Aye, we ought to acquaint ourselves with the beautiful; we
ought to contemplate it with rapture, and attempt to raise ourselves
up to its height. And in order to gain strength for that, we must keep
ourselves thoroughly unselfish--we must not make it our own, but rather
seek to communicate it: indeed, to make a sacrifice of it to those who
are dear and precious to us.

       *       *       *       *       *

How sedulously are we shaped and moulded in our youth--how constantly
are we then called on to lay aside now this, now that bad feeling!
But what, in fact, are our so-called bad feelings but so many organs
by means of which man is to help himself in life. How is not the poor
child worried, in whom but a little spark of vanity is discovered! and
yet what a poor miserable creature is the man who has no vanity at all.
I will now tell you what has led me to make all these reflections.
The day before yesterday we were joined by a young fellow, who was
most disagreeable to me and to Ferdinand. His weak points were so
prominent, his emptiness so manifest, and his care for his outward
appearance so obvious, that we looked down upon him as far inferior to
ourselves, yet everywhere he was better received than we were. Among
other of his follies, he wore a waist-coat of red satin, which round
the neck was so cut as to look like the ribbon of some order or other.
We could not restrain our jokes at this piece of absurdity, but he let
them all pass, for he drew a good profit from it, and perhaps secretly
laughed at us. For host and hostess, coachman, waiter and chambermaid,
and indeed not a few of our fellow-travellers, were taken in by this
seeming ornament, and showed him greater politeness than ourselves. Not
only was he always first waited upon, but, to our great humiliation,
we saw that all the pretty girls in the inns bestowed all their stolen
glances upon him; and then, when it came to the reckoning, which his
eminence and distinction had enhanced, we had to pay our full shares.
Who, then, was the fool in the game?--not he, assuredly.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Conventional education.]

There is something pretty and instructive about the symbols and maxims
which one here sees on all the stoves. Here you have the drawing of one
of these symbols which particularly caught my fancy. A horse tethered
by his hind foot to a stake is grazing round it as far as his tether
will permit; beneath is written, "Allow me to take my allotted portion
of food." This, too, will be the case with me, when I come home, and,
like the horse in the mill, shall have to work away at your pleasure,
and in return, like the horse here on the stove, shall receive a
nicely-measured dole for my support. Yes, I am coming back, and what
awaits me was certainly well worth all the trouble of climbing up these
mountain heights, of wandering through these valleys, and seeing this
blue sky--of discovering that there is a nature which exists by an
eternal voiceless necessity, which has no wants, no feelings, and is
divine, whilst we, whether in the country or in the towns, have alike
to toil hard to gain a miserable subsistence, and at the same time
struggle to subject everything to our lawless caprice, and call it
liberty!

       *       *       *       *       *

Aye, I have ascended the _Furca_--the summit of S. Gotthard. These
sublime, incomparable scenes of nature, will ever stand before my
eye. Aye, I have read the Roman history, in order to gain from the
comparison a distinct and vivid feeling what a thoroughly miserable
being I am.

       *       *       *       *       *

Never has it been so clear to me as during these last few days, that I
too could be happy on moderate means--could be quite as happy as any
one else, if only I knew a trade--an exciting one, indeed, but yet
one which had no consequences for the morrow, which required nothing
but industry and attention at the time, without calling for either
foresight or retrospection. Every mechanic seems to me the happiest of
mortals: all that he has to do is already settled for him, what he can
do is fixed and known. He has not to rack his brains over the task that
is set him; he works away without thinking, without exertion or haste,
but still with diligence and pleasure in his work, like a bird building
its nest, or a bee constructing its cells. He is but a degree above the
beasts, and yet he is a perfect man. How do I envy the potter at his
wheel, or the joiner behind his bench!

       *       *       *       *       *

Tilling the soil is not to my liking--this first and most necessary of
man's occupations is disagreeable to me. In it man does but ape nature,
who scatters her seeds everywhere, whereas man would choose that a
particular field should produce none but one particular fruit. But
things do not go on exactly so--the weeds spring up luxuriantly--the
cold and wet injures the crop, or the hail cuts it off entirely. The
poor husbandman anxiously waits throughout the year to see how the
cards will decide the game with the clouds, and determine whether he
shall win or lose his stakes. Such a doubtful ambiguous condition may
be right suitable to man, in his present ignorance, while he knows not
whence he came, nor whither he is going. It may then be tolerable to
man to resign all his labours to chance; and thus the parson, at any
rate, has an opportunity, when things look thoroughly bad, to remind
him of Providence, and to connect the sins of his flock with the
incidents of nature.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: An Adventure.]

So then I have nothing to joke Ferdinand about! I too have met with a
pleasant adventure. Adventure! why do I use the silly word? There is
nothing of adventure in a gentle attraction which draws man to man.
Our social life, our false relations, those are adventures, these are
monstrosities and yet they come before us as well-known and as nearly
akin to us, as Uncle and Aunt.

We had been introduced to Herr Tüdou, and we found ourselves very happy
among this family--rich, open-hearted, good-natured, lively people,
who in the society of their children, in comfort and without care,
enjoy the good which each day brings with it--their property and their
glorious neighbourhood. We young folks were not required, as is too
often the ease, in so many formal households, to sacrifice ourselves
at the card-table, in order to humour the old. On the contrary, the
old people, father, mother, and aunts, gathered round us, when for
our own amusement, we got up some little games, in which chance, and
thought, and wit, had their counteracting influence. Eleonora--for
I must now at last mention her name--the second daughter--her image
will for ever be present to my mind--a slim slight-frame, delicately
chiselled features, a bright eye--a palish complexion, which in young
girls of her age is rather pleasing than disagreeable, as being a
sign of no very incurable a malady--on the whole, her appearance was
extremely agreeable. She seemed cheerful and lively and every one felt
at his ease with her. Soon--indeed I may venture to say at once,--at
once, on the very first evening she made me her companion; she sat by
my side, and if the game separated us a moment, she soon contrived
to find her old place again. I was gay and cheerful--my journey, the
beautiful weather, the country--all had contributed to produce in
me an immoderate cheerfulness--aye, I might almost venture to say,
a state of excitement. I derived it from everything and imparted it
to everything; even Ferdinand seemed to forget his fair one. We had
almost exhausted ourselves in varying our amusements when we at last
thought of the "Game of Matrimony." The names of the ladies and of the
gentlemen were thrown separately into two hats, and then the pairs were
drawn out one by one. On each couple, as determined by the lot, one of
the company whose turn it might happen to be, had to write a little
poem. Every one of the party, father, mother, and aunts, were obliged
to put their names in the hats; we cast in besides the names of our
acquaintances, and to enlarge the number of candidates for matrimony,
we threw in those of all the well-known characters of the literary
and of the political world. We commenced playing, and the first pairs
that were drawn were highly distinguished personages. It was not every
one, however, who was ready at once with his verses. _She_, Ferdinand
and myself, and one of the aunts who wrote very pretty verses in
French--we soon divided among ourselves the office of secretary. The
conceits were mostly good and the verses tolerable. Her's especially,
had a touch of nature about them which distinguished them from all
others; without being really clever they had a happy turn; they were
playful without being bitter, and shewed good will towards every one.
The father laughed heartily, and his face was lit up with joy when
his daughter's verses were declared to be the best after mine. Our
unqualified approbation highly delighted him,--we praised as men praise
unexpected merit--as we praise an author who has bribed us. At last
out came my lot, and chance had taken honourable care of me. It was no
less a personage than the Empress of all the Russias, who was drawn
to be my partner for life. The company laughed heartily at the match,
and Eleonora maintained that the whole company must try their best to
do honour to so eminent a consort. All began to try: a few pens were
bitten to pieces; she was ready first, but wished to read last; the
mother and the aunt could make nothing of the subject, and although the
father was rather matter-of-fact, Ferdinand somewhat humorous, and the
aunts rather reserved, still, through all you could see friendship and
good-will. At last it came to her turn; she drew a deep breath, her
ease and cheerfulness left her; she did not read but rather lisped it
out--and laid it before me to read it to the rest. I was astonished,
amazed. Thus does the bud of love open in beauty and modesty! I felt as
if a whole spring had showered upon me all its flowers at once! Every
one was silent, Ferdinand lost not his presence of mind. "Beautiful,"
he exclaimed, "very beautiful! he deserves the poem as little as an
Empire." "If, only we have rightly understood it," said the father; the
rest requested I would read it once more. My eyes had hitherto been
fixed on the precious words, a shudder ran through me from head to
foot, Ferdinand who saw my perplexity, took the paper up and read it.
She scarcely allowed him to finish before she drew out the lots for
another pair. The play was not kept up long after this and refreshments
were brought in.

       *       *       *       *       *

Shall I or shall I not? Is it right of me to hide in silence any thing
from him to whom I tell so much--nay, all? Shall I keep back from
you a great matter, when I yet weary you with so many trifles which
assuredly no one would ever read but you who have taken so wonderful a
liking for me? or shall I keep back anything from you because it might
perhaps give you a false, not to say an ill opinion of me? No--you know
me better than I even know myself. If I should do anything which you
do not believe possible I could do, you will amend it; if I should do
anything deserving of censure, you will not spare me,--you will lead me
and guide me whenever my peculiarities entice me off the right road.

[Sidenote: Art and nature.]

My joy, my rapture at works of art when they are true, when they are
immediate and speaking expressions of Nature afford the greatest
delight to every collector, to every dilettante. Those indeed who
call themselves connoisseurs are not always of my opinion; but I care
nothing for their connoisseurship when I am happy. Does not living
nature vividly impress itself on my sense of vision? Do not its images
remain fixed in my brain? Do not they there grow in beauty, delighting
to compare themselves in turn with the images of art which the mind of
others has also embellished and beautified? I confess to you that my
fondness for nature arises from the fact of my always seeing her so
beautiful, so lovely, so brilliant, so ravishing, that the similation
of the artist, even his imperfect imitation transports me almost as
much, as if it were a perfect type. It is only such works of art,
however, as bespeak genius and feeling that have any charms for me.
Those cold imitations which confine themselves to the narrow circle
of a certain meagre mannerism, of mere painstaking diligence, are to
me utterly intolerable. You see, therefore, that my delight and taste
cannot well be riveted by a work of art, unless it imitates such
objects of nature as are well known to me, so that I am able to test
the imitation by my own experience of the originals. Landscape, with
all that lives and moves therein--flowers and fruit-trees. Gothic
churches,--a portrait taken directly from Nature, all this I can
recognize, feel, and if you like, judge of. Honest W---- amused himself
with this trait of my character, and in such a way that I could not
be offended, often made merry with it at my expense. He sees much
further in this matter, than I do, and I shall always prefer that
people should laugh at me while they instruct, than that they should
praise me without benefitting me. He had noticed what things I was
most immediately pleased with, and after a short acquaintance did not
hesitate to avow that in the objects that so transported me there might
be much that was truly estimable, and which time alone would enable me
to distinguish.

But I turn from this subject and must now, however circuitously, come
to the matter which, though reluctantly, I cannot but confide to you.
I can see you in your room, in your little garden, where, over a pipe
of tobacco, you will probably break the seal and read this letter.
Can your thoughts follow me into this free and motley world? Will
the circumstances and true state of the case become clear to your
imagination? And will you be as indulgent towards your absent friend as
I have often found you when present?

[Sidenote: Studies of the nude.]

When my artistic friend became better acquainted with me, and judged
me worthy of being gradually introduced to better pieces of art,
he one day, not without a most mysterious look, took me to a case,
which, being opened, displayed a Danæ, of the size of life, receiving
in her bosom the golden shower. I was amazed at the splendour of the
limbs--the magnificence of the posture and arrangement--the intense
tenderness and the intellectuality of the sensual subject; and yet I
did but stand before it in silent contemplation. It did not excite in
me _that_ rapture, _that_ delight, _that_ inexpressible pleasure. My
friend, who went on descanting upon the merits of the picture, was too
full of his own enthusiasm to notice my coldness, and was delighted
with the opportunity this painting afforded him of pointing out the
distinctive excellences of the Italian School.

But the sight of this picture has not made me happy--it has made me
uneasy. How! said I to myself--in what a strange case do we civilized
men find ourselves with our many conventional restraints! A mossy
rock, a waterfall rivets my eye so long that I can tell everything
about it--its heights, its cavities, its lights and shades, its hues,
its blending tints and reflections--all is distinctly present to my
mind; and whenever I please, comes vividly before me, in a most happy
imitation. But of that masterpiece of Nature, the human frame--of the
order and symmetry of the limbs, of all this I have but a very general
notion--which in fact is no notion at all. My imagination presents
to me anything but a vivid image of this glorious structure, and
when art presents an imitation of it, to my eye it awakens in me no
sensation and I am unable to judge of the merits of the picture. No, I
will remain no longer in this state of stupidity. I will stamp on my
mind the shape of man, as well as that of a cluster of grapes or of a
peach-tree.

I sought an occasion and got Ferdinand to take a swim in the lake.
What a glorious shape has my friend; how duly proportioned are all
his limbs: what fulness of form; what splendour of youth! What a gain
to have enriched my imagination with this perfect model of manhood!
Now I can people the woods, the meadow, and the hills, with similar
fine forms! I can see him as Adonis chasing the boar, or as Narcissus
contemplating himself in the mirror of the spring.

But alas! my imagination cannot furnish, as yet, a Venus, who holds
him from the chace, a Venus who bewails his death, or a beautiful Echo
casting one sad look more on the cold corpse of the youth before she
vanishes for ever! I have therefore resolved, cost what it will, to see
a female form in the state that I have seen my friend.

When, therefore, we reached Geneva, I made arrangements in the
character of an artist to complete my studies of the nude figure, and
to-morrow evening my wish is to be gratified.

       *       *       *       *       *

I cannot avoid going to-day with Ferdinand to a grand party. It will
form an excellent foil to the studies of this evening. Well enough do
I know those formal parties where the old women require you to play at
cards with them, and the young ones to ogle with them; where you must
listen to the learned, pay respect to the parson, and give way to the
noble, where the numerous lights show you scarcely one tolerable form,
and that one hidden and buried beneath some barbarous load of frippery.
I shall have to speak French, too,--a foreign tongue--the use of which
always makes a man appear silly, whatever he may think of himself,
since the best he can express in it is nothing but common place, and
the most obvious of remarks, and that, too, only with stammering and
hesitating lips. For what is it that distinguishes the blockhead from
the really clever man but the peculiar quickness and vividness with
which the latter discerns the nicer shades and proprieties of all
that come before him, and expresses himself thereon with facility;
whereas the former, (just as we all do with a foreign language,) is
forced on every occasion to have recourse to some ready found and
conversational phrase or other? To-day I will calmly put up with the
sorry entertainment, in expectation of the rare scene of nature which
awaits me in the evening.

       *       *       *       *       *

My adventure is over. It has fully equalled my expectation--nay,
surpassed it; and yet I know not whether to congratulate, or to blame
myself on account of it.




PART THE SECOND.


_Munster, October 3_, 1797.

From Basle you will receive a packet containing an account of my
travels up to that point, for we are now continuing in good earnest
our tours through Switzerland. On our route to Biel we rode up the
beautiful valley of the Birsch, and at last reached the pass which
leads to this place.

[Sidenote: The valley of the Birsch.]

Among the ridges of the broad and lofty range of mountains the little
stream of the Birsch found of old a channel for itself. Necessity soon
after may have driven men to clamber wearily and painfully through its
gorges. The Romans in their time enlarged the track, and now you may
travel through it with perfect ease. The stream, dashing over crags and
rocks, and the road run side by side, and except at a few points, these
make up the whole breadth of the pass which is hemmed in by rocks, the
top of which is easily reached by the eye. Behind them the mountain
chain rose with a slight inclination; the summits, however, were veiled
by a mist.

Here walls of rock rise precipitously one above another; there immense
strata run obliquely down to the river and the road-here again broad
masses lie piled one over another, while close beside stands a line of
sharp-pointed crags. Wide clefts run yawning upwards, and blocks, of
the size of a wall, have detached themselves from the rest of the stony
mass. Some fragments of the rock have rolled to the bottom; others are
still suspended, and by their position alarm you, as also likely at any
moment to come toppling down.

Now round, now pointed, now overgrown, now bare are the tops of these
rocks among and high above which some single bald summit boldly towers,
while along the perpendicular cliffs and among the hollows below, the
weather has worn many a deep and winding cranny.

The passage through this defile raised in me a grand but calm emotion.
The sublime produces a beautiful calmness in the soul which entirely
possessed by it, feels as great as it ever can feel. How glorious
is such a pure feeling, when it rises to the very highest, without
overflowing. My eye and my soul were both able to take in the objects
before me, and as I was pre-occupied by nothing, and had no false
tastes to counteract their impression, they had on me their full
and natural effect. When we compare such a feeling with that we are
sensible of, when we laboriously harass ourselves with some trifle, and
strain every nerve to gain as much as possible for it, and as it were,
to patch it out, striving to furnish joy and aliment to the mind from
its own creation; we then feel sensibly what a poor expedient, after
all, the latter is.

A young man, whom we have had for our companion from Basle, said his
feelings were very far from what they were on his first visit, and
gave all the honour to novelty. I however would say, when we see
such objects as these for the first time, the unaccustomed soul has
to expand itself, and this gives rise to a sort of painful joy--an
overflowing of emotion which agitates the mind, and draws from us the
most delicious tears. By this operation the soul, without knowing it,
becomes greater in itself, and is of course not capable of ever feeling
again such a sensation, and man thinks in consequence that he has lost
something, whereas in fact he has gained. What he loses in delight he
gains in inward riches. If only destiny had bidden me to dwell in the
midst of some grand scenery, then would I every morning have imbibed
greatness from its grandeur, as from a lonely valley I would extract
patience and repose.

After reaching the end of the gorge I alighted, and went back alone
through a part of the valley. I thus called forth another profound
feeling--one by which the attentive mind may expand its joys to a high
degree. One guesses in the dark about the origin and existence of these
singular forms. It may have happened, when and how it may,--these
masses must, according to the laws of gravity and affinity, have been
formed grandly and simply by aggregation. Whatever revolutions may
subsequently have upheaved, rent and divided them, the latter were only
partial convulsions, and even the idea of such mighty commotions gives
one a deep feeling of the eternal stability of the masses. Time, too,
bound by the everlasting law, has had here greater, here less, effect
upon them.

Internally their colour appears to be yellowish. The air, however, and
the weather has changed the surface into a bluish-grey, so that the
original colour is only visible here and there in streaks and in the
fresh cracks. The stone itself slowly crumbles beneath the influence of
the weather, becoming rounded at the edges, as the softer flakes wear
away. In this manner have been formed hollows and cavities gracefully
shelving off, which when they have sharp slanting and pointed edges,
present a singular appearance.

Vegetation maintains its rights on every ledge, on every flat surface,
for in every fissure the pines strike root, and the mosses and plants
spread themselves over the rocks. One feels deeply convinced that here
there is nothing accidental; that here there is working an eternal law
which, however slowly, yet surely governs the universe,--that there is
nothing here from the hand of man but the convenient road, by means of
which this singular region is traversed.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Geneva, October_ 27, 1779.

[Sidenote: La Vallée de Joux.]

The great mountain-range which, running from Basle to Geneva, divides
Switzerland from France, is, as you are aware, named the Jura. Its
principal heights run by Lausanne, and reach as far as Rolle and
Nyon. In the midst of this summit ridge Nature has cut out--I might
almost say washed out--a remarkable valley, for on the tops of all
these limestone rocks the operation of the primal waters is manifest.
It is called La Vallée de Joux, which means the Valley of the Rock,
since Joux in the local dialect signifies a rock. Before I proceed
with the further description of our journey, I will give you a brief
geographical account of its situation. Lengthwise it stretches like
the mountain range itself almost directly from south to north, and is
locked in on the one side by Sept Moncels, and on the other by Dent de
Vaulion, which, after the Dole, is the highest peak of the Jura. Its
length, according to the statement of the neighbourhood, is nine short
leagues, but according to our rough reckoning as we rode through it,
six good leagues. The mountainous ridge which bounds it lengthwise on
the north, and is also visible from the flat lands, is called the Black
Mountain (Le Noir Mont). Towards the west the Risou rises gradually,
and slopes away towards Franche Comté. France and Berne divide the
valley pretty evenly between them; the former claiming the upper and
inferior half, and the latter possessing the lower and better portion,
which is properly called La Vallée du Lac de Joux. Quite at the upper
part of the valley, and at the foot of Sept Moncels, lies the Lac des
Rousses, which has no single visible origin, but gathers its waters
from the numerous springs which here gush out of the soil, and from the
little brooks which run into the lake from all sides. Out of it flows
the Orbe, which after running through the whole of the French, and a
great portion of the Bernese territory, forms lower down, and towards
the Dent de Vaulion, the Lac de Joux, which falls on one side into a
smaller lake, the waters of which have some subterraneous outlet. The
breadth of the valley varies; above, near the Lac des Rousses it is
nearly half a league, then it closes in to expand again presently, and
to reach its greatest breath, which is nearly a league and a-half. So
much to enable you better to understand what follows; while you read
it, however, I would beg you now and then to cast a glance upon your
map, although, so far as concerns this country, I have found them all
to be incorrect.

_October 24th._ In company with a captain and an upper ranger of
the forests in these parts, we rode first of all up Mont, a little
scattered village, which much more correctly might be called a line
of husbandmen's and vinedressers' cottages. The weather was extremely
clear; when we turned to look behind us, we had a view of the Lake
of Geneva, the mountains of Savoy and Valais, and could just catch
Lausanne, and also, through a light mist, the country round Geneva,
Mont Blanc, which towers above all the mountains of Faucigni, stood
out more and more distinctly. It was a brilliant sunset, and the
view was so grand, that no human eye was equal to it. The moon rose
almost at the full, as we got continually higher. Through large pine
forests we continued to ascend the Jura, and saw the lake in a mist,
and in it the reflection of the moon. It became lighter and lighter.
The road is a well-made causeway, though it was laid down merely for
the sake of facilitating the transport of the timber to the plains
below. We had been ascending for full three leagues before the road
began gently to descend. We thought we saw below us a vast lake, for
a thick mist filled the whole valley which we overlooked. Presently
we came nearer to the mist, and observed a white bow which the moon
formed in it, and were soon entirely enveloped in the fog. The company
of the captain procured us lodgings in a house where strangers were
not usually entertained. In its internal arrangement it differed in
nothing from usual buildings of the same kind, except that the great
room in the centre was at once the kitchen, the ante-room, and general
gathering-place of the family, and from it you entered at once into the
sleeping-rooms, which were either on the same floor with it, or had to
be approached by steps. On the one side was the fire, which was burning
on the ground on some stone slabs, while a chimney, built durably and
neatly of planks, received and carried off the smoke. In the corner
were the doors of the oven; all the rest of the floor was of wood, with
the exception of a small piece near the window around the sink, which
was paved. Moreover, all around, and over head on the beams a multitude
of domestic articles and utensils were arranged in beautiful order, and
all kept nice and clean.

_October 26th._--This morning the weather was cold but clear, the
meadows covered with hoar frost, and here and there light clouds were
floating in the air. We could pretty nearly survey the whole of the
lower valley, our house being situated at the foot of the eastern side
of Noir Mont. About eight we set off, and in order to enjoy the sun
fully, proceeded on the western side. The part of the valley we now
traversed was divided into meadows, which, towards the lake were rather
swampy. The inhabitants either dwell in detached houses built by the
side of their farms, or else have gathered closer together in little
villages, which bear simple names derived from their several sites. The
first of those that we passed through was called "Le Sentier." We saw
at a distance the Dent de Vaulion peeping out over a mist which rested
on the lake. The valley grew broader, but our road now lay behind a
ridge of rock which shut out our view of the lake, and then through
another village called "Le Lieu." The mist arose, and fell off highly
variegated by the sun. Close hereto is a small lake, which apparently
has neither inlet nor outlet of its waters. The weather cleared up
completely as we came to the foot of Dent de Vaulion, and reached the
northern extremity of the great lake, which, as it turns westward,
empties itself into a smaller by a dam beneath the bridge. The village
just above is called "Le Pont." The situation of the smaller lake is
what you may easily conceive, as being in a peculiar little valley
which may be called pretty. At the western extremity there is a
singular mill, built in a ravine of the rock which the smaller lake
used formerly to fill. At present it is dammed out of the mill which is
erected in the hollow below. The water is conveyed by sluices to the
wheel, from which it falls into crannies of the rock, and being sucked
in by them, does not show itself again till it reaches Valorbe, which
is a full league off, where it again bears the name of the Orbe. These
outlets (_entonnoirs_) require to be kept clear, otherwise the water
would rise and again fill the ravine, and overflow the mill as it has
often done already. We saw the people hard at work removing the worn
pieces of the lime-stone and replacing them by others.

[Sidenote: Dent de Vaulion.]

We rode back again over the bridge towards "Le Pont," and took a guide
for the Dent du Vaulion. In ascending it we now had the great Lake
directly behind us. To the east its boundary is the Noir Mont, behind
which the bald peak of the Dole rises up; to the west it is shut in by
the mountain ridge, which on the side of the lake is perfectly bare.
The sun felt hot: it was between eleven and twelve o'clock. By degrees
we gained a sight of the whole valley, and were able to discern in the
distance the "Lac des Rousses," and then stretching to our feet the
district we had just ridden through and the road which remained for
our return. During the ascent my guide discoursed of the whole range
of the country and the lordships which, he said, it was possible to
distinguish from the peak. In the midst of such talk we reached the
summit. But a very different spectacle was prepared for us. Under a
bright and clear sky nothing was visible but the high mountain chain,
all the lower regions were covered with a white sea of cloudy mist,
which stretched from Geneva northwards, along the horizon and glittered
brilliantly in the sunshine. Out of it, rose to the east, the whole
line of snow and ice-capt mountains acknowledging no distinction of
names of either the Princes or Peoples, who fancied they were owners
of them, and owning subjection only to one Lord, and to the glance of
the Sun which was tinging them with a beautiful red. Mont Blanc, right
opposite to us, seemed the highest, next to it were the ice-crowned
summits of Valais and Oberland, and lastly, came the lower mountains
of the Canton of Berne. Towards the west, the sea of mist which was
unconfined to one spot; on the left, in the remotest distance, appeared
the mountains of Solothurn; somewhat nearer those of Neufchatel, and
right before us some of the lower heights of the Jura. Just below,
lay some of the masses of the Vaulion, to which belongs the Dent,
(tooth) which takes from it its name. To the west, Franche-Comté,
with its flat, outstretched and wood-covered hills, shut in the whole
horizon; in the distance, towards the north-west, one single mass
stood out distinct from all the rest. Straight before us, however,
was a beautiful object. This was the peak which gives this summit the
name of a tooth. It descends precipitously, or rather with a slight
curve, inwards, and in the bottom it is succeeded by a small valley
of pine-trees, with beautiful grassy patches here and there, while
right beyond it lies the valley of the Orbe (Val-orbe), where you see
this stream coming out of the rock, and can trace, in thought, its
route backwards to the smaller lake. The little town of Valorbe, also
lies in this valley. Most reluctantly we quitted the spot. A delay of
a few hours longer, (for the mist generally disperses in about that
time), would have enabled us to distinguish the low lands with the
lake--but in order that our enjoyment should be perfect, we must always
have something behind still to be wished. As we descended we had the
whole valley lying perfectly distinct before us. At Le Pont we again
mounted our horses, and rode to the east side of the lake, and passed
through l'Abbaye de Joux, which at present is a village, but once
was a settlement of monks, to whom the whole valley belonged. Towards
four, we reached our auberge and found our meal ready, of which we were
assured by our hostess that at twelve o'clock it would have been good
eating, and which, overdone as it was, tasted excellently.

[Sidenote: The Dole.]

Let me now add a few particulars just as they were told me. As I
mentioned just now, the valley belonged formerly to the monks, who
having divided it again to feudatories, were with the rest ejected at
the Reformation. At present it belongs to the Canton of Berne, and
the mountains around are the timber-stores of the Pays de Vaud. Most
of the timber is private property, and is cut up under supervision,
and then carried down into the plains. The planks are also made here
into deal utensils of all kinds, and pails, tubs, and similar articles
manufactured.

The people are civil and well disposed. Besides their trade in wood,
they also breed cattle. Their beasts are of a small size. The cheese
they make is excellent. They are very industrious, and a clod of
earth is with them a great treasure. We saw one man with a horse and
car, carefully collecting the earth which had been thrown up out of a
ditch, and carrying it to some hollow places in the same field. They
lay the stones carefully together, and make little heaps of them.
There are here many stone-polishers, who work for the Genevese and
other tradesmen, and this business furnishes occupation for many women
and children. The houses are neat but durable, the form and internal
arrangements being determined by the locality and the wants of the
inmates. Before every house there is a running stream, and everywhere
you see signs of industry, activity, and wealth. But above all things
is the highest praise due to the excellent roads, which, in this remote
region, as also in all the other cantons, are kept up by that of Berne.
A causeway is carried all round the valley, not unnecessarily broad,
but in excellent repair, so that the inhabitants can pursue their
avocations without inconvenience, and with their small horses and light
carts pass easily along. The air is very pure and salubrious.

[Sidenote: View from the Dole.]

_26th Oct._--Over our breakfast we deliberated as to the road we should
take on our return. As we heard that the Dole, the highest summit of
the Jura, lay at no great distance from the upper end of the valley,
and as the weather promised to be most glorious, so that we might
to-day hope to enjoy all that chance denied us yesterday, we finally
determined to take this route. We loaded a guide with bread and cheese,
and butter and wine, and by 8 o'clock mounted our horses. Our route
now lay along the upper part of the valley, in the shade of Noir
Mont. It was extremely cold, and there had been a sharp hoar-frost.
We had still a good league to ride through the part belonging to
Berne, before the causeway which there terminates branches off into
two parts. Through a little wood of pine trees we entered the French
territory. Here the scene changed greatly. What first excited our
attention was the wretched roads. The soil is rather stony; everywhere
you see great heaps of those which have been picked off the fields.
Soon you come to a part which is very marshy and full of springs. The
woods all around you are in wretched condition. In all the houses
and people you recognise, I will not say want, but certainly a hard
and meagre subsistence. They belong, almost as serfs, to the canons
of S. Claude; they are bound to the soil (_glebœ astricti_), and
are oppressed with imposts (_sujets à la main-morte et au droit de
la suite_), of which we will hereafter have some talk together, as
also of a late edict of the king's repealing the droit de la suite,
and inviting the owners and occupiers to redeem the main-morte for a
certain compensation. But still even this portion of the valley is
well cultivated. The people love their country dearly, though they
lead a hard life, being driven occasionally to steal the wood from
the Bernese, and sell it again in the lowlands. The first division
is called the Bois d'Amant; after passing through it, we entered the
parish of Les Rousses, where we saw before us the little Lake des
Rousses and Les Sept Moncels,--seven small hills of different shapes,
but all connected together, which form the southern limit of the
valley. We soon came upon the new road which runs from the Pays de Vaud
to Paris. We kept to this for a mile downwards, and now left entirely
the valley. The bare summit of the Dole was before us. We alighted
from our horses, and sent them on by the road towards S. Cergue while
we ascended the Dole. It was near noon; the sun felt hot, but a cool
south wind came now and then to refresh us. When we looked round for a
halting-place, we had behind us Les Sept Moncels, we could still see
a part of the Lac des Rousses, and around it the scattered houses of
the parish. The rest of the valley was hidden from our eye by the Noir
Mont, above which we again saw our yesterday's view of Franche-Comté,
and nearer at hand southwards, the last summits and valleys of the
Jura. We carefully avoided taking advantage of a little peep in the
hill, which would have given us a glimpse of the country, for the sake
of which in reality our ascent was undertaken. I was in some anxiety
about the mist; however, from the aspect of the sky above, I drew
a favourable omen. At last we stood on the highest summit, and saw
with the greatest delight that to-day we were indulged with all that
yesterday had been denied us. The whole of the Pays de Vaux and de
Gex lay like a plan before us: all the different holdings divided off
with green hedges like the beds of a parterre. We were so high that
the rising and sinking of the landscape before us was unnoticeable.
Villages, little towns, country-houses, vine-covered hills, and higher
up still, where the forests and Alps begin, the cow-sheds mostly
painted white, or some other light colour, all glittered in the
sunshine. The mist had already rolled off from Lake Leman. We saw the
nearest part of the coast on our side, quite clear; of the so-called
smaller lake, where the larger lake contracts itself, and turns towards
Geneva, which was right opposite to us, we had a complete view; and on
the other side the country which shuts it in was gradually clearing.
But nothing could vie with the view of the mountains covered with snow
and glaciers. We sat down before some rocks to shelter us from the
cold wind, with the sunshine fall upon us, and highly relished our
little meal. We kept watching the mist, which gradually retired; each
one discovered, or fancied he discovered, some object or other. One
by one we distinctly saw Lausanne, surrounded with its houses, and
gardens; then Bevay, and the castle of Chillon; the mountains, which
shut out from our view the entrance into Valais, and extended as far
as the lake; from thence the borders of Savoy, Evian, Repaille, and
Tonon, with a sprinkling of villages and farm-houses between them.
At last Geneva stood clear from the mist, but beyond and towards the
south, in the neighbourhood of Monte Credo and Monte Vauche, it still
hung immoveable. When the eye turned to the left it caught sight of
the whole of the lowlands from Lausanne, as far as Solothurn, covered
with a light halo. The nearer mountains and heights, and every spot
that had a white house on it, could be closely distinguished. The
guides pointed out a glimmering which they said was the castle of
Chauvan, which lies to the left of the Neuberger-See. We were just able
to guess whereabouts it lay, but could not distinguish it through the
bluish haze. There are no words to express the grandeur and beauty of
this view. At the moment every one is scarcely conscious of what he
sees:--one does but recall the names and sites of well-known cities and
localities, to rejoice in a vague conjecture that he recognizes them in
certain white spots which strike his eye in the prospect before him.

And then the line of glittering glaciers was continually drawing the
eye back again to the mountains. The sun made his way towards the west,
and lighted up their great flat surfaces, which were turned towards us.
How beautifully before them rose from above the snow the variegated
rows of black rocks:--teeth,--towers,--walls! Wild, vast, inaccessible
vestibules! and seeming to stand there in the free air in the first
purity and freshness of their manifold variety! Man gives up at once
all pretensions to the infinite, while he here feels that neither with
thought nor vision is he equal to the finite!

Before us we saw a fruitful and populous plain. The spot on which we
were standing was a high, bare mountain rock, which, however, produces
a sort of grass as food for the cattle, which are here a great source
of gain. This the conceited lord of creation may yet make his own:--but
those rocks before his eyes are like a train of holy virgins which
the spirit of heaven reserves for itself alone in these inaccessible
regions. We tarried awhile, tempting each other in turn to try and
discover cities, mountains, and regions, now with the naked eye, now
with the telescope, and did not begin to descend till the setting sun
gave permission to the mist,--his own parting breath,--to spread itself
over the lake.

With sunset we reached the ruins of the fort of S. Cergue. Even when we
got down in the valley, our eyes were still rivetted on the mountain
glaciers. The furthest of these, lying on our left in Oberland, seemed
almost to be melting into a light fiery vapour; those still nearer
stood with their sides towards us, still glowing and red; but by
degrees they became white, green, and grayish. There was something
melancholy in the sight. Like a powerful body over which death is
gradually passing from the extremities to the heart, so the whole
range gradually paled away as far as Mont Blanc, whose ampler bosom
was still covered all over with a deep red blush, and even appeared
to us to retain a reddish tint to the very last,--just as when one is
watching the death of a dear friend, life still seems to linger, and it
is difficult to determine the very moment when the pulse ceases to beat.

This time also we were very loth to depart. We found our horses in S.
Cergue; and that nothing might be wanting to our enjoyment, the moon
rose and lighted us to Nyon. While on the way, our strained and excited
feelings were gradually calmed, and assumed their wonted tone, so that
we were able with keen gratification to enjoy, from our inn window, the
glorious moonlight which was spread over the lake.

[Sidenote: Geneva.]

At different spots of our travels so much was said of the remarkable
character of the glaciers of Savoy, and when we reached Geneva we were
told it was becoming more and more the fashion to visit them, that the
Count[1] was seized with a strange desire to bend our course in that
direction, and from Geneva to cross Cluse and Salenche, and enter the
valley of Chamouni, and after contemplating its wonderful objects, to
go on by Valorsine and Trent into Valais. This route, however, which
was the one usually pursued by travellers, was thought dangerous in
this season of the year. A visit was therefore paid to M. de Saussure
at his country-house, and his advice requested. He assured us that
we need not hesitate to take that route; there was no snow as yet on
the middle-sized mountains, and if on our road we were attentive to
the signs of the weather and the advice of the country-people, who
were seldom wrong in their judgment, we might enter upon this journey
with perfect safety. Here is the copy of the journal of a day's hard
travelling.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Cluse, in Savoy, Nov._ 3, 1779.

To-day on departing from Geneva our party divided. The Count with
me and a huntsman took the route to Savoy. Friend W. with the
horses proceeded through the Pays de Vaud for Valais. In a light
four-wheeled cabriolet we proceeded first of all to visit Hüber at his
country-seat,--a man out of whom, mind, imagination and imitative tact,
oozes at every pore,--one of the very few thorough men we have met
with. He saw us well on our way, and then we set off with the lofty
snow-capped mountains, which we wished to reach, before our eyes. From
the Lake of Geneva the mountain-chains verge towards each other to the
point where Bonneville lies, half way between the Mole, a considerable
mountain, and the Arve. There we took our dinner. Behind the town
the valley closes right in. Although not very broad, it has the Arve
flowing gently through it, and is on the southern side well cultivated,
and everywhere the soil is put to some profit. From the early morning
we had been in fear of its raining some time at least before night,
but the clouds gradually quitted the mountains, and dispersed into
fleeces,--a sign which has more than once in our experience proved a
favourable omen. The air was as warm as it usually is in the beginning
of September, and the country we travelled through beautiful. Many of
the trees being still green; most of them had assumed a brownish-yellow
tint, but only a few were quite bare. The crops were rich and verdant;
the mountains caught from the red sunset a rosy hue, blended with
violet; and all these rich tints were combined with grand, beautiful,
and agreeable forms of the landscape. We talked over much that was
good. Towards 5 we came towards Cluse, where the valley closes, and
has only one outlet, through which the Arve issues from the mountains,
and by which also we propose to enter them to-morrow. We ascended
a lofty eminence, and saw beneath us the city, partly built on the
slightly inclined side of a rock, but partly on the flat portion of
the valley. Our eyes ranged with pleasure over the valley, and sitting
on the granite rocks we awaited the coming of night in calm and varied
discourse. Towards seven, as we descended, it was not at all colder
than it is usually in summer about nine. At a miserable inn (where,
however, the people were ready and willing, and by their patois
afforded us much amusement) we are now going, about ten o'clock, to
bed, intending to set out early to-morrow, before the morning shall
dawn.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Salenche, Nov._ 4, 1779. _Noon._

[The cavern of the Col de Balme.]

Whilst a dinner is being prepared by very willing hands, I will attempt
to set down the most remarkable incidents of our yesterday's journey,
which commenced with the early morning. With break of day we set out
on foot from Cluse, taking the road towards Balme. In the valley the
air was agreeably fresh; the moon, in her last quarter, rose bright
before the sun, and charmed us with the sight, as being one which we do
not often see. Single light vapours rose upwards from all the chasms
in the rocks. It seemed as if the morning air were awakening the young
spirits, who took pleasure in meeting the sun with expanded bosoms and
gilding them in his rays. The upper heaven was perfectly clear; except
where now and then a single cloudy streak, which the rising sun lit up,
swept lightly across it. Balme is a miserable village, not far from the
spot where a rocky gorge runs off from the road. We asked the people
to guide us through the cave for which the place is famous. At this
they kept looking at one another, till at last one said to a second,
"Take you the ladder, I will carry the rope,--come, gentlemen." This
strange invitation did not deter us from following then. Our line of
descent passed first of all among fallen masses of limestone rock,
which by the course of time had been piled up step by step in front of
the precipitous wall of rock, and were now overgrown with bushes of
hazel and beech. Over these you reach at last the strata of the rock
itself, which you have to climb up slowly and painfully by means of
the ladder and of the steps cut into the rock, and by help of branches
of the nut-trees, which hung over head, or of pieces of rope tied to
them. After this you find yourself, to your great satisfaction, in a
kind of portal, which has been worn out of the rock by the weather,
and overlooks the valley and the village below. We now prepared for
entering the cave; lighted our candles and loaded a pistol which we
proposed to let off. The cave is a long gallery, mostly level and on
one strand; in parts broad enough for two men to walk abreast, in
others only passable by one; now high enough to walk upright, then
obliging you to stoop, and sometimes even to crawl on hands and feet.
Nearly about the middle a cleft runs upwards and forms a sort of a
dome. In one corner another goes downwards. We threw several stones
down it, and counted slowly from seventeen to nineteen before it
reached the bottom, after touching the sides many times, but always
with a different echo. On the walls a stalactite forms its various
devices; however it is only damp in a very few places, and forms for
the most part long drops, and not those rich and rare shapes which are
so remarkable in Baumann's cave. We penetrated as far as we could for
the water, and as we came out let off our pistol, which shook the cave
with a strong but dull echo, so that it boomed round us like a bell. It
took us a good quarter of an hour to get out again, and on descending
the rocks, we found our carriage and drove onwards. At Staubbachs-Art
we saw a beautiful waterfall; neither its height was very great nor its
volume very large, and yet it was extremely interesting, for the rocks
formed around it, as it were, a circular niche in which, its waters
fell, and the pieces of the limestone as they were tumbled one over
another formed the most rare and unusual groups.

We arrived here at mid-day, not quite hungry enough to relish our
dinner, which consisted of warmed fish, cow beef, and very stale bread.
From this place there is no road leading to the mountains that is
passable for so stately an equipage as we have with us; it therefore
returns to Geneva, and I now must take my leave of you, in order to
pursue my route a little further. A mule with my luggage will follow us
as we pick our way on foot.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Chamouni, Nov._ 4, 1779. _Evening, about 9 o'clock._

It is only because this letter will bring me for awhile nearer to
yourself that I resume my pen; otherwise it would be better for me to
give my mind a little rest.

[Sidenote: The Valley of Chamouni-Mont Blanc.]

We left Salenche behind us in a lovely open valley; during our
noonday's rest the sky had become overcast with white fleecy clouds,
about which I have here a special remark to make. We had seen them on a
bright day rise equally fine, I if not still finer, from the glaciers
of Berne. Here too it again seemed to us as if the sun, had first of
all attracted the light mists which evaporated from the tops of the
glaciers, and then a gentle breeze had, as it were, combed the fine
vapours, like a fleece of foam over the atmosphere. I never remember at
home, even in the height of summer, (when such phenomena do also occur
with us,) to have seen any so transparent, for here it was a perfect
web of light. Before long the ice-covered mountains from which it rose
lay before us; the valley began to close in; the Arve was gushing out
of the rock; we now began to ascend a mountain, and went up higher and
higher, with the snowy summits right before us. Mountains and old pine
forests, either in the hollows below or on a level with our track,
came out one by one before the eye as we proceeded. On our left were
the mountain-peaks, bare and pointed. We felt that we were approaching
a mightier and more massive chain of mountains. We passed over a dry
and broad bed of stones and gravel, which the watercourses tear down
from the sides of the rocks, and in turn flow among and fill up. This
brought us into an agreeable valley, flat, and shut in by a circular
ridge of rocks, in which lies the little village of Serves. There the
road runs round some very highly variegated rocks, and takes again
the direction towards the Arve. After crossing the latter you again
ascend; the masses become constantly more imposing, nature seems to
have begun here with a light hand, to prepare her enormous creations.
The darkness grew deeper and deeper as we approached the valley of
Chamouni, and when at last we entered it, nothing but the larger masses
were discernible. The stars came out one by one, and we noticed above
the peaks of the summits right before us, a light which we could not
account for. Clear, but without brilliancy, like the milky way, but
closer, something like that of the Pleiades; it rivetted our attention
until at last, as our position changed, like a pyramid illuminated by
a secret light within, which could best be compared to the gleam of
a glow-worm, it towered high above the peaks of all the surrounding
mountains, and at last convinced us that it must be the peak of Mont
Blanc. The beauty of this view was extraordinary. For while, together
with the stars which clustered round it, it glimmered, not indeed with
the same twinkling light, but in a broader and more continuous mass, it
seemed to belong to a higher sphere, and one had difficulty in thought
to fix its roots again in the earth. Before it we saw a line of snowy
summits, sparkling as they rested on the ridges covered with the black
pines, while between the dark forests vast glaciers sloped down to the
valley below.

My descriptions begin to be irregular and forced; in fact, one wants
two persons here, one to see and the other to describe.

Here we are in the middle village of the valley called "Le Prieuré,"
comfortably lodged in a house, which a widow caused to be built here
in honour of the many strangers who visited the neighbourhood. We are
sitting close to the hearth, relishing our Muscatel wine from the
Vallée d'Aost far better than the lenten dishes which were served up to
our dinner.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Nov._ 5, 1779. _Evening._

To take up one's pen and write, almost requires as great an effort as
to take a swim in the cold river. At this moment I have a great mind
to put you off, by referring you to the description of the glaciers of
Savoy, given by that enthusiastic climber Bourritt.

Invigorated however by a few glasses of excellent wine, and by the
thought that these pages will reach you much sooner than either
the travellers or Bourritt's book, I will do my best. The valley
of Chamouni, in which we are at present, lies very high among the
mountains, and, from six to seven leagues long, runs pretty nearly
from south to north. The characteristic features which to my mind
distinguish it from all others, are its having scarcely any flat
portion, but the whole tract, like a trough, slopes from the Arve
gradually up the sides of the mountain. Mont Blanc and the line of
mountains which runs off from it, and the masses of ice which fill
up the immense ravines, make up the eastern wall of the valley, on
which, throughout its entire length, seven glaciers, of which one is
considerably larger than the others, run down to the bottom of the
valley.

[Sidenote: The Ice-Lake.]

The guides whom we had engaged to show us to the ice-lake came to
their time. One was a young active peasant, the other much older,
who seemed to think himself a very shrewd personage, who had held
intercourse with all learned foreigners, well acquainted with the
nature of the ice-mountains, and a very clever fellow. He assured us
that for eight and twenty years,--so long had he acted as guide over
the mountains,--this was the first time that his services had been put
in requisition so late in the year--after All Saints' Day, and yet that
we might even now see every object quite as well as in June. Provided
with wine and food we began to ascend Mont Anvert, from which we
were told the view of the ice-lake would be quite ravishing. Properly
I should call it the ice-valley or the ice-stream; for looking at it
from above, the huge masses of ice force themselves out of a deep
valley in tolerable smoothness. Right behind it ends a sharp-pointed
mountain, from both sides of which waves of ice run frozen into the
principal stream. Not the slightest trace of snow was as yet to be seen
on the rugged surfaces, and the blue crevices glistened beautifully.
The weather by degrees became overcast, and I saw grey wavy clouds,
which seemed to threaten snow, more than it had ever yet done. On
the spot where we were standing is a small cabin, built of stones,
loosely piled together as a shelter for travellers, which in joke has
been named "The Castle of Mont Anvert." An Englishman, of the name of
Blaire, who is residing at Geneva, has caused a more spacious one to
be built at a more convenient spot, and a little higher up, where,
sitting by a fire-side, you catch through the window a view of the
whole Ice-Valley. The peaks of the rocks over against you, as also in
the valley below, are very pointed and rugged. These jags are called
needles, and the Aiguille du Dru is a remarkable peak of this kind,
right opposite to Mont Anvert. We now wished to walk upon the Ice Lake
itself, and to consider these immense masses close at hand. Accordingly
we climbed down the mountain, and took nearly a hundred steps round
about on the wave-like crystal cliffs. It is certainly a singular
sight, when standing on the ice itself, you see before you the masses
pressing upwards, and divided by strangely shaped clefts. However, we
did not like standing on this slippery surface, for we had neither
come prepared with ice-shoes, nor with nails in our usual ones; on the
contrary, those which we ordinarily wore had become smooth and rounded
with our long walk; we, therefore, made our way back to the hut, and
after a short rest were ready for returning. We descended the mountain,
and came to the spot where the ice-stream, step by step, forces its way
to the valley below, and we entered the cavern, into which it empties
its water. It is broad, deep, and of the most beautiful blue, and in
the cave the supply of water is more invariable than further on at the
mouth, since great pieces of ice are constantly melting and dissolving
in it.

On our road to the Auberge we passed the house where there were two
Albinos,--children between twelve and fourteen, with very white
complexions, rough white hair, and with red and restless eyes like
rabbits. The deep night which hangs over the valley invites me to
retire early to bed, and I am hardly awake enough to tell you, that we
have seen a tame young ibex, who stands out as distinctly among the
goats as the natural son of a noble prince from the burgher's family,
among whom he is privately brought up and educated. It does not suit
with our discourses, that I should speak of anything out of its due
order. Besides, you do not take much delight in specimens of granite,
quartz, or in larch and pine trees, yet, most of all, you would desire
to see some remarkable fruits of our botanising. I think I am stupid
with sleep,--I cannot write another line.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Chamouni, Nov._ 6, 1776. _Early._

Content with seeing all that the early season allows us to see, we
are ready to start again, intending to penetrate as far as Valais
to-day. A thick mist covers the whole valley, and reaches half way up
the mountains, and we must wait and see what sun and wind will yet
do for us. Our guide purposes that we should take the road over the
Col-de-Balme, a lofty eminence, which lies on the north side of the
valley towards Valais, from the summit of which, if we are lucky, we
shall be able to take another survey of the valley of Chamouni, and of
all its remarkable objects.

Whilst I am writing a remarkable phenomenon is passing along the sky.
The mists which are shifting about, and breaking in some places, allow
you through their openings as through skylights, to catch a glance of
the blue sky, while at the same time the mountain peaks, which rising
above our roof of vapour, are illuminated by the sun's rays. Even
without the hope it gives of a beautiful day, this sight of itself is a
rich treat to the eye.

We have at last obtained a standard for judging the heights of the
mountains. It is at a considerable height above the valley, that the
vapour rests on the mountains. At a still greater height are clouds,
which have floated off upwards from the top of the mist, and then far
above these clouds you see the summits glittering in the sunshine.

It is time to go. I must bid farewell to this beautiful valley and to
you.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Martinac, in Valais_, _Nov._ 6, 1779. _Evening._

We have made the passage across without any mishap, and so this
adventure is over. The joy of our good luck will keep my pen going
merrily for a good half hour yet.

Having packed our luggage on a mule, we set out early (about 9,) from
Prieuré. The clouds shifted, so that the peaks were now visible and
then were lost again; at one moment the sun's rays came in streaks on
the valley, at the next the whole of it was again in shade. We went
up the valley, passing the outlet of the ice-stream, then the glacier
d'Argentière, which is the highest of the five, the top of it however
was hidden from our view by the clouds. On the plain we held a counsel,
whether we should or not take the route over Col de Balme, and abandon
the road over Valorsine. The prospect was not the most promising;
however, as here there was nothing to lose and much perhaps to gain,
we took our way boldly towards the dark region of mists and clouds. As
we approached the Glacier du Tour, the clouds parted, and we saw this
glacier also in full light. We sat down awhile and drank a flask of
wine, and took something to eat. We now mounted towards the sources
of the Arve, passing over rugged meadows and patches scantily covered
with turf, and came nearer and nearer to the region of mists, until at
last we entered right into it. We went on patiently for awhile till
at last as we got up higher, it began again to clear above our heads.
It lasted for a short time, so we passed right out of the clouds, and
saw the whole mass of them beneath us spread over the valley, and were
able to see the summits of all the mountains on the right and left that
enclosed it, with the exception of Mont Blanc, which was covered with
clouds. We were able to point them out one by one, and to name them.
In some we saw the glaciers reaching from their summits to their feet,
in others we could only discern their tracks, as the ice was concealed
from our view by the rocky sides of the gorges. Beyond the whole of the
flat surface of the clouds, except at its southern extremity, we could
distinctly see the mountains glittering in the sunshine. Why should I
enumerate to you the names of summits, peaks, needles, icy and snowy
masses, when their mere designations can furnish no idea to your mind,
either of the whole scene or of its single objects?

[Sidenote: Col de Balme.]

It was quite singular how the spirits of the air seemed to be waging
war beneath us. Scarcely had we stood a few minutes enjoying the
grand view, when a hostile ferment seemed to arise within the mist,
and it suddenly rose upwards and threatened once more to envelope us.
We commenced stoutly ascending the height, in the hope of yet awhile
escaping from it, but it outstripped us and enclosed us on all sides.
However, perfectly fresh, we continued to mount, and soon there came
to our aid a strong wind, blowing from the mountain. Blowing over the
saddle which connected two peaks, it drove the mist back again into the
valley. This strange conflict was frequently repeated, and at last, to
our joy, we reached the Col de Balme. The view from it was singular,
indeed unique. The sky above the peaks was overcast with clouds; below,
through the many openings in the mist, we saw the whole of Chamouni,
and between these two layers of cloud the mountain summits were all
visible. On the east we were shut in by rugged mountains, on the west
we looked down on wild valleys, where, however, on every green patch
human dwellings were visible. Before us lay the valley of Valais, where
at one glance the eye took in mountains piled in every variety of mass
one upon another, and stretching as far as Martinac and even beyond
it. Surrounded on all sides by mountains which, further on towards the
horizon, seemed continually to multiply and to tower higher and higher,
we stood on the confines of Valais and Savoy.

Some contrabandists, who were ascending the mountains with their mules,
were alarmed at seeing us, for at this season they did not reckon on
meeting with any one at this spot. They fired a shot to intimate that
they were armed, and one advanced before the rest to reconnoitre.
Having recognised our guide and seen what a harmless figure we made, he
returned to his party, who now approached us, and we passed one another
with mutual greetings.

The wind now blew sharp, and it began to snow a little as we commenced
our descent, which was rough and wild enough, through an ancient
forest of pines, which had taken root on the faces of the gneiss. Torn
up by the winds, the trunks and roots lay rotting together, and the
rocks which were loosened at the same time were lying in rough masses
among them.

At last we reached the valley where the river Trent takes its rise from
a glacier, and passing the village of Trent, close upon our right, we
followed the windings of the valley along a rather inconvenient road,
and about six reached Martinac, which lies in the flatter portion of
the Valais. Here we must refresh ourselves for further expeditions.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Martinac, Nov._ 6, 1779. _Evening._

Just as our travels proceed uninterruptedly, so my letters one after
another keep up my conversation with you. Scarcely have I folded and
put aside the conclusion of "Wanderings through Savoy," ere I take up
another sheet of paper in order to acquaint you with all that we have
further in contemplation.

It was night when we entered a region about which our curiosity had
long been excited. As yet we have seen nothing but the peaks of the
mountains, which enclose the valley on both sides, and then only in the
glimmering of twilight. We crept wearily into our auberge, and saw from
the window the clouds shifting. We felt as glad and comfortable to have
a roof over our heads, as children do when with stools, table-leaves
and carpets, they construct a roof near the stove, and therein say to
one another that outside "it is raining or knowing," in order to excite
a pleasant and imaginary shudder in their little souls. It is exactly
so with us on this autumnal evening in this strange and unknown region.

[Sidenote: Valais.]

We learn from the maps that we are sitting in the angle of an elbow,
from which the smaller part of Valais, running almost directly from
south to north, and with the Rhone, extends to the lake of Geneva,
while the other and the larger portion stretches from west to east,
and goes up the Rhone to its source, the Furca. The prospect of riding
through the Valais is very agreeable, our only anxiety is how we are
to cross over into it. First of all, with the view of seeing the
lower portion, it is settled that we go to-morrow to S. Maurice, where
we are to meet our friend, who with the horses has gone round by the
Pays de Vaud. To-morrow evening we think of being here again, and
then on the next day shall begin to go up the country. If the advice
of M. de Saussure prevails, we shall perform the route to the Furca
on horseback, and then back to Brieg over the Simplon, where, in any
weather, the travelling is good over Domo d'Osula, Lago Maggiore,
Bellinzona, and then up Mount Gotthard. The road is said to be
excellent, and everywhere passable for horses. We should best prefer
going over the Furca to S. Gotthard, both for the sake of the shorter
route, and also because this detour through the Italian provinces
was not within our original plan, but then what could we do with
our horses; they could not be made to descend the Furca, for in all
probability the path for pedestrians is already blocked up by the snow.

With regard to the latter contingency, however, we are quite at our
ease, and hope to be able, as we have hitherto done, to take counsel,
from moment to moment, with circumstances as they arise.

The most remarkable object in this inn is a servant-girl, who with the
greatest stupidity gives herself all the airs of one of our would-be
delicate German ladies. We had a good laugh, when after bathing our
weary feet in a bath of red wine and clay, as recommended by our guide,
we had in the affected hoyden to wipe them dry.

Our meal has not refreshed us much, and after supper we hope to enjoy
our beds more.

       *       *       *       *       *

_S. Maurice, Nov._ 7, 1779. _Nearly Noon._

On the road it is my way to enjoy the beautiful views, in order that I
may call in one by one my absent friends, and converse with them on the
subject of the glorious objects. If I come into an inn it is in order
to rest myself, to go back in memory and to write something to you,
when many a time my overstrained faculties would much rather collapse
upon themselves, and recover their tone in a sort of half sleep.

This morning we set off at dawn from Martinac; a fresh breeze was
stirring with the day, and we soon passed the old castle which stands
at the point where the two arms of Valais make a sort of Y. The valley
is narrow, shut in on its two sides by mountains, highly diversified
in their forms, and which without exception are of a peculiar and
sublimely beautiful character. We came to the spot where the Trent
breaks into the valley around some narrow and perpendicular rocks, so
that one almost doubts whether the river does not flow out of the solid
rock itself. Close by stands the old bridge, which only last year was
greatly injured by the stream, while not far from it lie immense masses
of rock, which have fallen very recently from the mountains and blocked
up the road. The whole group together would make an extremely beautiful
picture. At a short distance from the old bridge a new wooden one has
been built, and a new road been laid down to it.

[Sidenote: The water-fall of Pisse Vache.]

We were told that we were getting near the famous water-fall of Pisse
Vache, and wished heartily for a peep at the sun, while the shifting
clouds gave us a good hope that our wish would be gratified. On the
road we examined various pieces of granite and of gneiss, which with
all their differences seem, nevertheless, to have a common origin. At
last we stood before the waterfall, which well deserves its fame above
all others. At a considerable height a strong stream bursts from a
cleft in the rock, falling downward into a basin, over which the foam
and spray is carried far and wide by the wind. The sun at this moment
came forth from the clouds, and made the sight doubly vivid. Below in
the spray, wherever you go, you have close before you a rainbow. If
you go higher up, you still witness no less singular a phenomenon. The
airy foaming waves of the upper stream of water, as with their frothy
vapour, they come in contact with the angle of vision at which the
rainbow is formed, assume a flame-like hue, without giving rise to the
pendant form of the bow, so that at this point you have before you a
constantly varying play of fire.

We climbed all round, and sitting down near it, wished we were able
to spend whole days and many a good hour of our life on this spot.
Here too, as in so many other places during our present tour, we felt
how impossible is was to enjoy and to be fully impressed with grand
objects on a passing visit.

We next came to a village where there were some merry soldiers, and we
drank there some new wine. Some of the same sort had been set before us
yesterday. It looked like soap and water; however, we had rather drink
it than their sour "this year's" and "two years' old" wine. When one is
thirsty nothing comes amiss.

We saw S. Maurice at a distance; it lies just at the point where
the valley closes in, so much as to cease to be anything more than
a mere pass. Over the city, on the left, we saw a small church with
a hermitage close to it, and we hope to have an opportunity yet of
visiting them both.

We found in the inn a note from our friend, who has stopped at Bec,
which is about three quarters of a league from this place; we have sent
a messenger to him. The Count is gone out for a walk to see the country
before us. I shall take a morsel to eat, and then set out towards the
famous bridge and the pass.

       *       *       *       *       *

_After 1 o'clock._

I have at last got back from the spot where one could be contented to
spend whole days together, lounging and loitering about without once
getting tired, holding converse with oneself.

If I had to advise any one as to the best route into Valais, I should
recommend the one from the Lake of Geneva up the Rhone. I have been on
the road to Bec over the great bridge, from which you step at once into
the Bernese territority. Here the Rhone flows downwards, and the valley
near the lake becomes a little broader. As I turned round again I saw
that the rocks near S. Maurice pressed together from both sides, and
that a small light bridge, with a high arch, was thrown boldly across
from them over the Rhone, which rushes beneath it with its roaring and
foaming stream. The numerous angles and turrets of a fortress stands
close to the bridge, and a single gateway commands the entrance into
Valais. I went over the bridge back towards S. Maurice, and even beyond
it, in search of a view which I had formerly seen a drawing of at
Huber's house, and by good luck found it.

The count is come back. He had gone to meet the horses and mounting
his grey had outstripped the rest. He says the bridge is so light and
beautiful that it looks like a horse in the act of leaping a ditch.
Our friend too is coming, and is quite contented with his tour. He
accomplished the distance from the Lake of Geneva to Bec in a few days,
and we are all delighted to see one another again.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Martinac, towards_ 9.

We were out riding till late at night, and the road seemed much longer
returning than going, as in the morning, our attention had been
constantly attracted from one object to another. Besides I am for this
day, at least, heartily tired of descriptions and reflections; however,
I must try hastily to perpetuate the memory of two beautiful objects.
It was deep twilight when on our return we reached the waterfall of
the Pisse Vache. The mountains, the valley, and the heavens themselves
were dark and dusky. By its greyish tint and unceasing murmur you could
distinguish the falling stream from all other objects, though you could
scarcely discern the slightest motion. Suddenly the summit of a very
high peak glowed just like molten brass in a furnace, and above it rose
a red smoke. This singular phenomenon was the effect of the setting sun
which illuminated the snow and the mists which ascended from it.

-------

_Sion, Nov._ 8, 1779. _about 3 o'clock._

[Sidenote: From Martinac to Sion.]

This morning we missed our way riding, and were delayed in consequence,
three hours at least. We set out from Martinac before dawn, in
order to reach Sion in good time. The weather was extraordinarily
beautiful, only that the sun being low in the heavens was shut out by
the mountains, so that the road, as we passed along, was entirely in
the shade. The view, however, of the marvellously beautiful valley of
Valais brought up many a good and cheerful idea. We had ridden for full
three hours along the high road with the Rhone on our left, when we
saw Sion before us; and we were beginning to congratulate ourselves on
the prospect of soon ordering our noon-day's meal, when we found that
the bridge we ought to cross had been carried away. Nothing remained
for us, we were told by the people who were busy repairing it, but
either to leave our horses and go by a foot-path which ran across
the rocks, or else to ride on for about three miles, and then cross
the Rhone by some other bridges. We chose the latter; and we would
not suffer any ill-humour to get possession of us, but determined to
ascribe this mischance to the interposition of our good genius, who
intended to take us a slow ride through this interesting region with
the advantage of good day-light. Everywhere, indeed, in this narrow
district, the Rhone makes sad havoc. In order to reach the other
bridges we were obliged, for more than a league and a half, to ride
over sandy patches, which in the various inundations are constantly
shifting, and are useful for nothing but alder and willow beds. At
last we came to the bridges, which were wretched, tottering, long, and
composed of rotten timbers. We had to lead our horses over one by one,
and with extreme caution. We were now on the left side of the Valais
and had to turn backwards to get to Sion. The road itself was for the
most part wretched and stony; every step, however, opened a fresh
view, which was well worth a painting. One, however, was particularly
remarkable. The road brought us up to a castle, below which there was
spread out the most lovely scene that we had seen in the whole road.
The mountains nearest to us run down on both sides slantingly to the
level ground, and by their shape gave a kind of perspective effect to
the natural landscape. Beneath us was the Valais in its entire breadth
from mountain to mountain, so that the eye could easily take it in; the
Rhone, with its ever varying windings and bushy banks was flowing past
villages, meadows, and richly cultivated highlands; in the distance
you saw the Castle of Sion, and the various hills which begin to rise
behind it; the farthest horizon was shut in, amphitheatre like, with
a semicircular range of snow-capped mountains which, like all the
rest of the scene, stood glittering in the sun's meridian splendour.
Disagreeable and rough was the road we had to ride over; we therefore
enjoyed the more, perhaps, the still tolerably green festoons of the
vines which over-arched it. The inhabitants, to whom every spot of
earth is precious, plant their grape-vines close against the walls
which divide their little holdings from the road, where they grow to
an extraordinary thickness, and by means of stakes and trellises are
trained across the road so as almost to form one continuous arbour.
The lower grounds were principally meadows: in the neighbourhood of
Sion, however, we notice? some tillage. Towards this town the scenery
is extremely diversified by a variety of hills, and we wished to be
able to make a longer stay in order to enjoy it. But the hideousness of
the town and of the people fearfully disturb the pleasant impression
which the scenery leaves. The most frightful goitres put me altogether
out of humour. We cannot well put our horses any further to-day, and
therefore we think or going on foot to Seyters. Here in Sion the inn is
disgusting, and the whole town has a dirty and revolting appearance.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Sion--Seyters.]

_Seyters, Nov._ 8, 1779. _Night._

As evening had begun to fall before we set out from Sion, we reached
here at night, with the sky above us clear and starry. We have
consequently lost many a good view--that I know well. Particularly we
should have liked to have ascended to the Castle of Tourbillon, which
is at no great distance from Sion; the view from it must be uncommonly
beautiful. A guide whom we took with us skilfully guided us through
some wretched low lands, where the water was out. We soon reached the
heights, and had the Rhone below us on our right. By talking over some
astronomical matters we shortened our road, and have taken up our
abode here with some very worthy people, who are doing their best to
entertain us. When we think over what we have gone through, so busy a
day, with its many incidents and sights, seems almost equal to a whole
week. I begin to be quite sorry that I have neither time nor talent to
sketch at least the outlines of the most remarkable objects; for that
would be much better for the absent than all descriptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Seyters, Nov._ 9, 1779.

Before we set out I can just bid you good morning. The Count is going
with me to the mountains on the left, towards Leukerbad; our friend
will, in the meantime, stay here with the horses, and join us to-morrow
at Leuk.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Leukerbad, Nov._ 9, 1779. _At the Foot of Mount Gemmi._

In a little wooden house where we have been friendlily received by some
very worthy people, we are sitting in a small, low room, and trying
how much of to-day's highly interesting tour can be communicated in
words. Starting from Seyters very early we proceeded for three leagues
up the mountains, after having passed large districts laid waste by
the mountain torrents. One of these streams will suddenly rise and
desolate an extent of many miles, covering with fragments of rock and
gravel the fields, meadows, and gardens, which (at least wherever
possible) the people laboriously set to work to clear, in order within
two generations, perhaps, to be again laid waste. We have had a grey
day, with every now and then a glimpse of sunshine. It is impossible
to describe how infinitely variegated the Valais here again becomes;
the landscape bends and changes every moment, cooking around you all
the objects seem to lie close together, and yet they are separated by
great ravines and hills. Generally we had had the open part of the
valley below us, on the right, when suddenly we came upon a spot which
commanded a most beautiful view over the mountains.

In order to render more clear what it is I am attempting to describe,
I must say a few words on the geographical position of the district
in which we are at present. We had now for three hours been ascending
the mountainous region which separates Valais from Berne. This is, in
fact, the great track of mountains which runs in one continuous chain
from the Lake of Geneva to Mount S. Gothard, and on which, as it passes
through Berne, rest the great masses of ice and snow. Here _above_ and
_below_ are but the relative terms of the moment. I say, for instance,
beneath me lies a village--and in all probability the level on which
it is built is on a precipitous summit, which is far higher above the
valley below, than I am above it.

[Sidenote: Inden--The Gemmi.]

As we turned an angle of the road and rested awhile at a hermitage, we
saw beneath us, at the end a lovely green meadowland, which stretched
along the brink of an enormous chasm, the village of Inden, with
its white church exactly in the middle of the landscape, and built
altogether on the slope of the hill-side. Beyond the chasm another line
of meadow lands and pine forests went upwards, while right behind the
village a vast cleft in the rocks ran up the summit. On the left hand
the mountains came right down to us, while those on our right stretched
far away into the distance, so that the little hamlet, with its white
church, formed as it were the focus towards which the many rocks,
ravines, and mountains all converged. The road to Inden is cut out of
the precipitous side of the rock, which, on your left going to the
village, lines the amphitheatre. It is not dangerous although it looks
frightful enough. It goes down on the slope of a rugged mass of rocks,
separated from the yawning abyss on the right, by nothing but a few
poor planks. A peasant with a mule, who was descending at the same time
as ourselves, whenever he came to any dangerous points caught his beast
by the tail, lest the steep descent should cause him to slip, and roll
into the rocks below. At last we reached Inden. As our guide was well
known there, he easily managed to obtain for us, from a good-natured
dame, some bread and a glass of red wine, for in these parts there are
no regular inns.

We now ascended the high ravine, behind Inden, where we soon saw before
us the Gemmiberg (of which we had heard such frightful descriptions),
with Leukerbad at its foot, lying between two lofty, inaccessible,
snow-covered mountains, as if it were in the hollow of a hand. It
was three o'clock, nearly, when we arrived there, and our guide soon
procured us lodgings. There is properly no inn even here, but in
consequence of the many visitors to the baths at this place, all people
have good accommodations. Our hostess had been put to bed the day
before, but her husband with an old mother and a servant girl, did very
creditably the honours of the house. We ordered something to eat, and
went to see the warm springs, which in several places burst out of the
earth with great force, and are received in very clean reservoirs. Out
of the village, and more towards the mountains, there are said to be
still stronger ones. The water has not the slightest smell of sulphur,
and neither at its source nor in its channel does it make the least
deposit of ochre or of any other earth or mineral, but like any other
clear spring water it leaves not the slightest trace behind it. As
it comes out of the earth it is extremely hot, and is famous for its
good qualities. We had still time for a walk to the foot of the Gemmi,
which appeared to us to be at no great distance. I must here repeat a
remark that has been made so often already; that when one is surrounded
with mountain scenery all objects appear to be extremely near. We had
a good league to go, amongst fragments of rock which had fallen from
the heights, and over gravel brought down by the torrents, before
we reached the foot of the Gemmi, where the road ascends along the
precipitous crags. This is the only pass into the canton of Berne, and
the sick have to be transported along it in sedan chairs.

If the season did not bid us hasten onwards, in all probability we
might make an attempt to-morrow to ascend this remarkable mountain;
as it is, however, we must content ourselves with the simple view of
it. On our return we saw the clouds brewing, which in these parts is
a highly interesting sight. The fine weather we have hitherto enjoyed
has made us forget almost entirely that it is in November that we are;
besides too, as they foretold us in Berne, the autumn here is very
delightful. The short days, however, and the clouds which threaten
snow, warn us how late it is in the year. The strange drift which has
been agitating them this evening was singularly beautiful. As we came
back from the foot of the Gemmi, we saw light mists come up the ravine
from Inden, and move with great rapidity. They continually changed
their direction, going now forwards, now backwards, and at last, as
they ascended, they came so near to Leukerbad that we saw clearly that
we must double our steps if we would not before nightfall be enveloped
in the clouds. We reached our quarters, however, without accident, and
whilst I write this it is snowing in earnest. This is the first fall
of snow that we have yet had, and when we call to mind our warm ride
yesterday, from Martinach to Sion, beneath the vine-arbours, which were
still pretty thick with leaves, the change does appear sudden indeed. I
have been standing some time at the door, observing the character and
look of the clouds, which are beautiful beyond description. It is not
yet night, but at intervals the clouds veil the whole sky and make
it quite dark. They rise out of the deep ravines until they reach the
highest summits of the mountains; attracted by these they appear to
thicken, and being condensed by the cold they fall down in the shape
of snow. It gives you an inexpressible feeling of loneliness to find
yourself here at this height, as it were, in a sort of well, from which
you scarcely can suppose that there is even a footpath to get out by,
except down the precipice before you. The clouds which gather here
in this valley, at one time completely hiding the immense rocks, and
absorbing them in a waste impenetrable gloom, or at another letting a
part of them be seen like huge spectres, give to the people a cast of
melancholy. In the midst of such natural phenomena the people are full
of presentiments and forebodings. Clouds--a phenomenon remarkable to
every man from his youth up--are, in the plain countries, generally
looked upon at most as something foreign--something super-terrestrial.
People regard them as strangers, as birds of passage, which, hatched
under a different climate, visit this or that country for a moment or
two in passing--as splendid pieces of tapestry wherewith the gods part
off their pomp and splendour from human eyes. But here, where they are
hatched, man is inclosed in them from the very first, and the eternal
and intrinsic energy of his nature feels itself at every nerve moved to
forebode and to indulge in presentiments.

To the clouds, which, with us even produce these effects, we pay little
attention; moreover as they are not pushed so thickly and directly
before our eyes, their economy is the more difficult to observe. With
regard to all such phenomena one's only wish is to dwell on them for a
while, and to be able to tarry several days in the spots where they are
observable. If one is fond of such observations the desire becomes the
more vivid the more one reflects that every season of the year, every
hour of the day, and every change of weather produces new phenomena
which we little looked for. And as no man, not even the most ordinary
character, was ever a witness, even for once, of great and unusual
events, without their leaving behind in his soul some traces or other,
and making him feel himself also to be greater for this one little
shred of grandeur, so that he is never weary of telling the whole tale
of it over again, and has gained at any rate a little treasure for his
whole life; just so is it with the man who has seen and become familiar
with the grand phenomena of nature. He who manages to preserve these
impressions, and to combine them with other thoughts and emotions, has
assuredly a treasury of sweets wherewith to season the most tasteless
parts of life, and to give a pervading relish to the whole of existence.

I observe that in my notes I make very little mention of human beings.
Amid these grand objects of nature, they are but little worthy of
notice, especially where they do but come and go. I doubt not but
that on a longer stay we should meet with many worthy and interesting
people. One fact I think I have everywhere observed; the farther one
moves from the highroad and the busy marts of men, the more people are
shut in by the mountains, isolated and confined to the simplest wants
of life, the more they draw their maintenance from simple, humble, and
unchangeable pursuits: so much the better, the more obliging, the more
friendly, unselfish, and hospitable are they.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Leukerbad, Nov._ 10, 1779.

We are getting ready by candle-light, in order to descend the mountain
again as soon as day breaks. I have had rather a restless night.
Scarcely had I got into bed before I felt as if I was attacked all
over with the nettle rash. I soon found, however, that it was a swarm
of crawling insects, who, ravenous of blood, had fallen upon the new
comer. These insects breed in great numbers in these wooden houses. The
night appeared to me extremely long, and I was heartily glad when in
the morning a light was brought in.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Leuk., about 10 o'clock._

We have not much time to spare; however, before we set out, I will give
you an account of the remarkable breaking up of our company, which
has here taken place, and also of the cause of it. We set out from
Leukerbad with daybreak this morning, and had to make our way over the
meadows through the fresh and slippery snow. We soon came to Inden,
where, leaving above us on our right the precipitous road which we came
down yesterday, we descended to the meadow lands along the ravine
which now lay on our left. It is extremely wild and overgrown with
trees, but a very tolerable road runs down into it. Through the clefts
in the rock the water which comes down from Leukerbad has its outlets
into the Valais. High up on the side of the hill, which yesterday we
descended, we saw an aqueduct skilfully cut out of the rock, by which
a little stream is conducted from the mountain, then through a hollow
into a neighbouring village.

[Sidenote: Leuk.]

Next we had to ascend a steep height, from which we soon saw the
open country of Valais, with the dirty town of Valais lying beneath
us. These little towns are mostly stuck on the hill sides; the roofs
inelegantly covered with coarsely split planks, which within a year
become black and overgrown with moss; and when you enter them, you
are at once disgusted, for everything is dirty; want and hardship are
everywhere apparent among these highly privileged and free burghers.

We found here our friend, who brought the unfavourable report that it
was beginning to be injudicious to proceed further with the horses.
The stables were everywhere small and narrow, being built only for
mules or sumpter horses; oats too were rarely to be procured; indeed
he was told that higher up among the mountains there were none to be
had. Accordingly a council was held. Our friend with the horses was to
descend the Valais and go by Bee, Bevay, Lausanne, Freiburg, and Berne,
to Lucerne, while the Count and I pursued our course up the Valais, and
endeavoured to penetrate to Mount Gotthard, and then through the Canton
of Uri, and by the lake of the Forest Towns, likewise make for Lucerne.
In these parts you may anywhere procure mules, which are better suited
to these roads than horses, and to go on foot invariably proves the
most agreeable in the end. Our friend is gone, and our portmanteaus
packed on the back of a mule, and so we are now ready to set off and
make our way on foot to Brieg. The sky has a motley appearance, still I
hope that the good luck which has hitherto attended us, and attracted
us to this distant spot, will not abandon us at the very point where we
have the most need of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Brieg, Nov._ 10, 1779. _Evening._

Of to-day's expedition I have little to tell you, unless you would like
to be entertained with a long circumstantial account of the weather.
About 11 o'clock we set off from Leuk., in company with a Suabian
butcher's boy, who had run away hither, and had found a place where he
served somewhat in the capacity of Hanswurst (Jack-Pudding), and with
our luggage packed on the back of a mule, which its master was driving
before him. Behind us, as far as the eye could reach, thick snow
clouds, which came driving up the lowlands, covered everything. It had
really a threatening aspect. Without expressing my fears I felt anxious
lest, even though right before us it looked as clear as it could do
in the land of Goshen, the clouds might nevertheless overtake us, and
here, perhaps in the territory of the Valais, shut in on both sides
by mountains, we might be covered with the clouds, and in one night
snowed up. Thus whispered alarm which got possession almost entirely of
one ear; at the other good courage was speaking in a confident tone,
and reproving me for want of faith, kept reminding me of the past, and
called my attention to the phenomena of the atmosphere before us. Our
road went continually on towards the fine weather. Up the Rhone all was
clear, and as a strong west wind kept driving the clouds behind us, it
was little likely that they would reach us.

The following was the cause of this. Into the valley of Valais there
are, as I have so often remarked already, many ravines running down
from the neighbouring mountain-chains, which fall into it like little
brooks into a great stream, as indeed all their waters flow off into
the Rhone. Out of each of these openings rushes a current of wind,
which has been forming in the inner valleys and nooks of the rocks.
When now the principal drift of the clouds up the valley reaches one
of these ravines, the current of the wind does not allow the clouds
to pass, but contends with them, and with the wind which is driving
them, and thus detains them, and disputes with them for whole hours the
passage up the valley. This conflict we often witnessed, and when we
believed we should surely be overtaken by the clouds, an obstacle of
this kind would again arise, and after we had gone a good league, we
found they had scarcely stirred from the spot.

[Sidenote: Brieg.]

Towards evening the sky was uncommonly beautiful. As we arrived at
Brieg, the clouds got there almost as soon as we did; however, as the
sun had set, and a driving east wind blew against them, they were
obliged to come to a halt, and formed a huge crescent from mountain to
mountain across the valley. The cold air had greatly condensed them,
and where their edge stood out against the blue sky, it presented to
the eye many beautiful, light, and elegant forms. It was quite clear
that they were heavy with snow; however, the fresh air seemed to us to
promise that much would not fall during the night.

Here we are in a very comfortable inn, and what greatly tends to make
us contented, we have found a roomy chamber with a stove in it, so that
we can sit by the fire-side and take counsel together as to our future
travels. Through Brieg runs the usual road to Italy over the Simplon;
should we, therefore, give up our plan of going over the Furca to Mont
S. Gothard, we shall go with hired horses and mules to Domo d'Ossula,
Margozro, pass up Lago Maggiore, and then to Bellinzona, and then on
to S. Gotthard, and over Airolo to the monastery of the Capuchins.
This road is passable all the winter through, and is good travelling
for horses; however, to our minds it is not very inviting, especially
as it was not in our original plan, and will not bring us to Lucerne
till five days after our friend. We wish rather to see the whole of the
Valais up to its extreme limit, whither we hope to come by to-morrow
evening, and, if fortune favours, we shall be sitting by about the
same time next day in Realp, in the canton of Uri, which is on Mont
Gotthard, and very near to its highest summit. If we then find it
impossible to cross the Furca, the road back to this spot will still be
open to us, and then we can take of necessity the route which of free
choice we are disinclined to.

You can well believe that I have here closely examined the people,
whether they believe that the passage over the Furca is open, for that
is the one idea with which I rise up, and lie down to sleep, and occupy
myself all day long. Hitherto our route may be compared to a march to
meet an enemy, and now it is as if we were approaching to the spot
where he has entrenched himself, and we must give him battle. Besides
our mule two horses are ordered to be ready by the evening.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Munster, Nov._ 11, 1779. _Evening, 6 o'clock._

Again we have had a pleasant and prosperous day. This morning as we set
out early and in good time from Brieg our host, when we were already
on the road said, "If the mountain (so they call the Furca here,)
should prove too fearful, you can easily come back and take another
route." With our two horses and mule we soon came upon some pleasant
meadows, where the valley becomes so narrow that it is scarcely some
gun-shots wide. Here are some beautiful pasture lands, on which stand
large trees, while pieces of rock lie scattered about which have rolled
down from the neighbouring mountains. The valley gradually grows
narrower, and the traveller is forced to ascend along the side of the
mountain, having the while the Rhone below him in a rugged ravine on
his left. Above him, however, the land is beautifully spread out;
on the variously undulating hills are verdant and rich meadows and
pretty hamlets, which, with their dark-brown wooden houses, peep out
prettily from among the snow. We travelled a good deal on foot, and
we did so in turns to accommodate one another. For although riding is
safe enough, still it excites one's alarm to see another riding before
you along so narrow a track, and on so weak an animal, and just on
the brink of so rugged a precipice; and as too there are no cattle
to be seen on the meadows, (for the people here shut them all up in
sheds at this season,) such a region looks lonely, and the thought
that one is continually being hemmed in closer and closer by the vast
mountains, fills the imagination with sombre and disagreeable fancies,
enough to make you fall from your seat, if you are not very firm in the
saddle. Man is never perfectly master of himself. As he lives in utter
ignorance of the future, as indeed what the next moment may bring forth
is hidden from him, consequently, when anything unusual falls beneath
his notice, he has often to contend with involuntary sensations,
forebodings, and dream-like fancies, at which shortly afterwards
he may laugh outright, but which at the decisive moment are often
extremely oppressive.

[Sidenote: The legend of S. Alexis.]

In our noonday quarters we met with some amusement. We had taken up
our lodgings with a woman in whose house everything looked neat and
orderly. Her room, after the fashion of the country, was wainscotted,
the beds ornamented with carving; the cupboards, tables, and all the
other little repositories which were fastened against the walls or to
the corners, had pretty ornaments of turner's work or carving. From
the portraits which hung around the room, it was easy to see that
several members of the family had devoted themselves to the clerical
profession. We also observed a collection of bound books over the door,
which we took to be the endowment of one of these reverend personages.
We took down the Legends of the Saints, and read it while our meal
was preparing. On one occasion of our hostess entering the room, she
asked us if we had ever read the history of S. Alexis? We said no,
and took no further notice of her question, but went on reading the
chapter we each had begun. When, however, we had sat down to table,
she placed herself by our sides, and began again to talk of S. Alexis.
We asked her whether he was the patron saint of herself, or of her
family; which she denied, affirming at the same time, however, that
this saintly person had undergone so much for the love of God, that
his history always affected her more than any other's. When she saw
that we knew nothing about him, she began to narrate to us his history.
"S. Alexis," she said, "was the son of noble, rich, and God-fearing
parents in Rome, and in the practice of good works he delighted to
follow their example, for they did extraordinary good to the poor.
All this, however, did not appear enough to Alexis; but secretly in
his own heart he devoted himself entirely to God's service, and took
a vow to Christ of perpetual virginity. When, then, in the course of
time, his parents wished to marry him to a lovely and amiable maiden,
he did not oppose their will. When, however, the marriage ceremony was
concluded, instead of retiring to his bed in the nuptial chamber, he
went on board a vessel which he found ready to sail, and with it passed
over to Asia. Here he assumed the garb of a wretched mendicant, and
became thereby so thoroughly disguised that the servants of his father
who had been sent after him failed to recognise him. Here he posted
himself near the door of the principal church, invariably attending the
divine services, and supporting himself on the alms of the faithful.
After two or three years various miracles took place, betokening the
special favour of the Almighty. The bishop heard a voice in the church,
bidding him to summon into the sacred temple that man whose prayer was
most acceptable to God, and to keep him by his side while he celebrated
divine worship. As the bishop did not at once know who could be meant,
the voice went on to point out to him the beggar, whom, to the great
astonishment of the people, he immediately fetched into the church.
The saintly Alexis, embarrassed by having the attention of the people
directed towards himself, quietly and silently departed thence, also on
ship-board, intending to proceed still further in foreign lands. But by
a tempest and other circumstances he was compelled to land in Italy.
The saint seeing in all this the finger of God, was rejoiced to meet
with an opportunity of exercising self-denial in the highest degree.
He therefore set off direct for his native town, and placed himself
as a beggar at the door of his parents' house. With their usual pious
benevolence did they receive him, and commanded one of their servants
to furnish him with lodging in the castle and with all necessary
sustenance. This servant, annoyed at the trouble he was put to, and
displeased with his master's benevolence, assigned to this seeming
beggar a miserable hole under some stone steps, where he threw to him,
as to a dog, a sorry pittance of food. The saint instead of suffering
himself to be vexed thereat, first of all thanked God sincerely for
it in his heart, and not only bore with patient meekness all this
which he might easily have altered, but with incredible and superhuman
fortitude, endured to witness the lasting grief of his parents and
his wife for his absence. For he heard his much-loved parents and
his beautiful spouse invoke his name a hundred times a day, and pray
for his return, and he saw them wasting their days in sorrow for his
supposed absence." At this passage of her narrative our good hostess
could not refrain her tears, while her two daughters, who during the
story had crept close to her side, kept steadily looking up in their
mother's face. "But," she continued, "great was the reward which the
Almighty bestowed on his constancy, giving him, at his death, the
greatest possible proofs of his favour in the eyes of the faithful.
For after living several years in this state, daily frequenting the
service of God with the most fervent zeal, he at last fell sick,
without any particular heed being given to his condition by any one.
One morning shortly after this, while the pope was himself celebrating
high mass, in presence of the emperor and all the nobles, suddenly
all the bells in the whole city of Rome began to toll as if for the
passing knell of some distinguished personage. Whilst every one was
full of amazement, it was revealed to the pope that this marvel was
in honour of the death of the holiest person in the whole city, who
had but just died in the house of the noble Patrician.--The father
of Alexis being interrogated, thought at once of the beggar. He went
home and found him beneath the stairs quite dead. In his folded hands
the saintly man clutched a paper, which his old father sought in vain
to take from him. He returned to the church and told all this to the
emperor and the pope, who thereupon, with their courtiers and clergy,
set off to visit the corpse of the saint. When they reached the spot,
the holy father took it without difficulty out of the hands of the dead
man, and handed it to the emperor, who thereupon caused it to be read
aloud by his chancellor. The paper contained the history of the saint.
Then you should have seen the grief of his parents and wife, which now
became excessive, to think that they had had near to them a son and
husband so dear; for whom there was nothing too good that they would
not have done; and then too to know how ill he had been treated! They
fell upon his corpse and wept so bitterly that there was not one of the
bystanders who could refrain from tears. Moreover, among the multitude
of the people who gradually flocked to the spot, there were many sick,
who were brought to the body and by its touch were made whole."

[Sidenote: The legend of S. Alexis.]

Our fair story-teller affirmed over and over again, as she dried her
eyes, that she had never heard a more touching history, and I too
was seized with so great a desire to weep that I had the greatest
difficulty to hide and to suppress it. After dinner I looked out the
legend itself in Father Cochem, and found that the good dame had
dropped none of the purely human traits of the story, while she had
clean forgotten all the tasteless remarks of this writer.

We keep going continually to the window watching the weather; and are
at present very near offering a prayer to the winds and clouds. Long
evenings and universal stillness are the elements in which writing
thrives right merrily, and I am convinced that if, for a few months
only, I could contrive, or were obliged, to stay at a spot like this,
all my unfinished dramas would of necessity be completed one after
another.

We have already had several people before us, and questioned them with
regard to the pass over the Furca; but even here we have been unable
to gain any precise information, although the mountain is only two or
three leagues distant. We must, however, rest contented, and we shall
set out ourselves at break of day to reconnoitre, and see how destiny
will decide for us. However, in general, I may be disposed to take
things as they go, it would, I must confess, be highly annoying to me
if we should be forced to retrace our steps again. If we are fortunate
we shall be by to-morrow evening at Realp or S. Gotthard, and by noon
the next day among the Capuchins at the summit of the mountain. If
things go unfortunately we nave two roads open for a retreat. Back
through the whole of Valais, and by the well-known road over Berne to
Lucerne; or back to Brieg, and then by a wide detour to S. Gotthard.
I think in this short letter I have told you that three times. But in
fact it is a matter of great importance to us. The issue will decide
which was in the right, our courage, which gave us a confidence that we
must succeed, or the prudence of certain persons who were very earnest
in trying to dissuade us from attempting this route. This much, at any
rate, is certain, that both prudence and courage must own chance to be
over them both. And now that we have once more examined the weather,
and found the air to be cold, the sky bright, and without any signs of
a tendency to snow, we shall go calmly to bed.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Munster, Nov._ 12, 1776. _Early. 6 o'clock._

We are quite ready, and all is packed up in order to set out from hence
with the break of day. We have before us two leagues to Oberwald, and
from there the usual reckoning makes six leagues to Realp. Our mule is
to follow us with the baggage as far as it is possible to take him.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Realp, Nov._ 12, 1779. _Evening._

[Sidenote: The passage of the Furca.]

We reached this place just at nightfall. We have surmounted all
difficulties, and the knots which entangled our path have been cut in
two. Before I tell you where we are lodged, and before I describe to
you the character of our hosts, allow me the gratification of going
over in thought the road that we did not see before us without anxiety,
and which, however, we have left behind us without accident, though not
without difficulty. About seven we started from Munster, and saw before
us the snow-covered amphitheatre of mountain summits, and took to be
the Furca, the mountain which in the background stood obliquely before
it. But as we afterwards learned, we made a mistake; it was concealed
from our view by the mountains on our left and by high clouds. The
east wind blew strong and fought with some snow-clouds, chasing the
drifts, now over the mountains, now up the valley. But this only made
the snow drifts deeper on the ground, and caused us several times to
miss our way; although shut in as we were on both sides, we could
not fail of reaching Oberwald eventually. About nine we actually got
there, and dropping in at an auberge, its inmates were not a little
surprised to see such characters appearing there this time of the year.
We asked whether the pass over the Furca were still practicable, and
they answered that their folk crossed it for the greater part of the
winter, but whether we should be able to get across they could not
tell. We immediately sent to seek for one of these persons as a guide.
There soon appeared a strong thick-set peasant, whose very look and
shape inspired confidence. With him we immediately began to treat: if
he thought the pass was practicable for us, let him say so; and then
take one or more comrades and come with us. After a short pause he
agreed, and went away to get ready himself and to fetch the others.
In the meantime we paid our muleteer the hire of his beast, since we
could no longer make any use of his mule; and having eaten some bread
and cheese and drank a glass of red wine, felt full of strength and
spirits, as our guide came back, followed by another man who looked
still bigger and stronger than himself, and seeming to have all the
strength and courage of a horse, he quickly shouldered our portmanteau.
And now we set out, a party of five, through the village, and soon
reached the foot of the mountain, which lay on our left, and began
gradually to ascend it. At first we had a beaten track to follow which
came down from a neighbouring Alp; soon, however, this came to an end,
and we had to go up the mountain side through the snow. Our guides,
with great skill, tracked their way among the rocks, around which the
usual path winds, although the deep and smooth snow had covered all
alike. Next our road lay through a forest of pines, while the Rhone
flowed beneath us in a narrow unfruitful valley. Into it we also, after
a little while, had to descend, and by crossing a little foot-bridge
we came in sight of the glacier of the Rhone. It is the hugest we have
as yet had so full a view of. Of very great breadth, it occupies the
whole saddle of the mountain, and descends uninterruptedly down to the
point where, in the valley, the Rhone flows out of it. At this source
the people tell us it has for several years been decreasing; but that
is as nothing compared with all the rest of the huge mass. Although
everything was full of snow, still the rough crags of ice, on which
the wind did not allow the snow to lie, were visible with their glass
blue fissures, and you could see clearly where the glacier ended and
the snow-covered rock began. To this point, which lay on our left, we
came very close. Presently we again reached a light foot-bridge over
a little mountain stream, which flowed through a barren trough-shaped
valley to join the Rhone. After passing the glacier, neither on the
right, nor on the left, nor before you, was there a tree to be seen,
all was one desolate waste; no rugged and prominent rocks-nothing but
long smooth valleys, slightly inclining eminences, which now, in the
snow which levelled all inequalities, presented to us their simple
unbroken surfaces. Turning now to the left we ascended a mountain,
sinking at every step deep in the snow. One of our guides had to go
first, and boldly treading down the snow break the way by which we were
to follow.

[Sidenote: The passage over the Furca.]

It was a strange sight, when turning for a moment your attention from
the road, you directed it to yourself and your fellow travellers. In
the most desolate region of the world, in a boundless, monotonous
wilderness of mountains enveloped in snow, where for three leagues
before and behind, you would not expect to meet a living soul, while
on both sides you had the deep hollows of a web of mountains, you
might see a line of men wending their way, treading each in the deep
footsteps of the one before him, and where, in the whole of the wide
expanse thus smoothed over, the eye could discern nothing but the track
they left behind them. The hollows as we left them lay behind us gray
and boundless in the mist. The changing clouds continually passed over
the pale disc of the sun, and spread over the whole scene a perpetually
moving veil. I am convinced that any one who, while pursuing this
route, allowed his imagination to gain the mastery, would even, in the
absence of all immediate danger, fall a victim to his own apprehensions
and fears. In reality, there is little or no risk of a fall here; the
great danger is from the avalanches, when the snow has become deeper
than it is at present, and begins to roll. However our guide told us
that they cross the mountains throughout the winter, carrying from
Valais to S. Gotthard skins of the chamois, in which a considerable
trade is here carried on. But then to avoid the avalanches, they do
not take the route that we did, but remain for some time longer in the
broad valley, and then go straight up the mountain. This road is safer,
but much more inconvenient. After a march of about three hours and
a-half, we reached the saddle of the Furca, near the cross which marks
the boundary of Valais and Uri. Even here we could not distinguish the
double peak from which the Furca derives its name. We now hoped for an
easier descent, but our guides soon announced to us still deeper snow,
as we immediately found it to be. Our march continued in single file as
before, and the foremost man who broke the path often sank up to his
waist in the snow. The readiness of the people, and their light way of
speaking of matters, served to keep up our courage; and I will say, for
myself, that I have accomplished the journey without fatigue, although
I cannot say that it was a mere walk. The huntsman Hermann asserted
that he had often before met with equally deep snow in the forests of
Thuringia, but at last he could not help bursting out with a loud
exclamation, "The Furca is a ---------."

A vulture or lammergeier swept over our heads with incredible rapidity:
it was the only living thing that we had met with in this waste. In the
distance we saw the mountains of the Ursi lighted up with the bright
sunshine. Our guides wished to enter a shepherd's hut which had been
abandoned and snowed up, and to take something to eat, but we urged
them to go onwards, to avoid standing still in the cold. Here again is
another groupe of valleys, and at last we gained an open view into the
valley of the Ursi.

[Sidenote: The capuchins at Realp.]

We now proceeded at a shorter pace, and after travelling about three
leagues and a-half from the Cross, we saw the scattered roofs of Realp.
We had several times questioned our guides as to what sort of an inn,
and what kind of wine we were likely to find in Realp. The hopes they
gave us were anything but good, but they assured us that the Capuchins
there, although they had not, like those on the summit of S. Gotthard,
an hospice, were in the habit of entertaining strangers. With them
we should get some good red wine, and better food than at an inn. We
therefore sent one of our party forwards to inform the Capuchins of
our arrival, and to procure a lodging for us. We did not loiter long
behind, and arrived very soon after him, when we were received at the
door by one of the fathers--a portly, good-looking man. With much
friendliness of manner he invited us to enter, and at the threshold
begged that we would put up with such entertainment they could alone
offer, as at no time and least of all at this season of the year,
were they prepared to receive such guests. He therefore led us into
a warm room, and was very diligent in waiting upon us, while we took
off our boots, and changed our linen. He begged us once for all to
make ourselves perfectly at home. As to our meat, we must, he said,
be indulgent, for they were in the middle of their long fast, which
would last till Christmas-day. We assured him that a warm room, a bit
of bread, and a glass of red wine would, in our present circumstances,
fully satisfy all our wishes. He procured us what we asked for, and
we had scarcely refreshed ourselves a little, ere he began to recount
to us all that concerned the establishment, and the settlement of
himself and fellows on this waste spot. "We have not," he said, "an
hospice like the fathers on Mont S. Gotthard,--we are here in the
capacity of parish priests, and there are three of us. The duty of
preaching falls to my lot; the second father has to look after the
school, and the brother to look after the household." He went on to
describe their hardships and toils; here, at the furthest end of a
lonely valley, separated from all the world, and working hard to very
little profit. This spot, like all others, was formerly provided with
a secular priest, but an avalanche having buried half of the village,
the last one had run away, and taken the pix with him, whereupon he was
suspended, and they, of whom more resignation was expected, were sent
there in his place.

In order to write all this I had retired to an upper room, which is
warmed from below by a hole in the floor; and I have just received an
intimation that dinner is ready, which, notwithstanding our luncheon,
is right welcome news.

       *       *       *       *       *

_About_ 9.

The fathers, priests, servants, guides and all, took their dinner
together at a common table; the brother, however, who superintended the
cooking, did not make his appearance till dinner was nearly over. Out
of milk, eggs, and flour he had compounded a variety of dishes, which
we tasted one after another, and found them all very good. Our guides,
who took a great pleasure in speaking of the successful issue of our
expedition, praised us for our uncommon dexterity in travelling, and
assured us that it was not every one that they would have undertaken
the task of being guides to. They even confessed also that this
morning, when their services were required, one had gone first to
reconnoitre, and to see if we looked like people who would really go
through all difficulties with them; for they were particularly cautious
how they accompanied old or weak people at this time of the year,
since it was their duty to take over in safety every one they had once
engaged to guide, being bound in case of his falling sick, to carry
him, even though it should be at the imminent risk of their own lives,
and if he were to die on the passage, not to leave his body behind.
This confession at once opened the flood-gates to a host of anecdotes,
and each in turn had his story to tell of the difficulties and dangers
of wandering over the mountains amidst which the people had here to
live as in their proper element, so that with the greatest indifference
they speak of mischances and accidents to which they themselves are
daily liable. One of them told a story of how, on the Candersteg, on
his way to Mount Gemmi, he and a comrade with him (he is mentioned on
every occasion with both Christian and surname) found a poor family
in the deep snow, the mother dying, her boy half dead, and the father
in that state of indifference which verges on a total prostration of
intellect. He took the woman on his back, and his comrade her son, and
thus laden, they had driven before them the father, who was unwilling
to move from the spot.

[Sidenote: The Capuchins at Realp.]

During the descent of Gemmi the woman died on his back, but he brought
her dead as she was to Leukerbad. When we asked what sort of people
they were, and what could have brought them at such a season into the
mountains, he said they were poor people of the canton of Berne, who,
driven by want, had taken to the road at an unseasonable period of
the year, in the hope of finding some relations either in Valais or
the Italian canton, and had been overtaken by a snow-storm. Moreover,
they told many anecdotes of what had happened to themselves during
the winter journeys over the Furca with the chamois-skins, on which
expeditions, however, they always travelled in companies. Every now
and then our reverend host would make excuses for the dinner, and we
redoubled our assurances that we wished for nothing better. We also
found that he contrived to bring back the conversation to himself and
his own matters, observing that he had not been long in this place.
He began to talk of the office of preaching, and of the dexterity
that a preacher ought to have. He compared the good preacher to a
chapman who cleverly puffs his wares, and by his pleasant words
makes himself agreeable to his customers. After dinner he kept up
the conversation, and, as he stood with his left hand leaning on
the table, he accompanied his remarks with his right, and while he
discoursed most eloquently on eloquence, appeared at the moment as if
he wished to convince us that he himself was the dexterous chapman.
We assented to his observations, and he came from the lecture to the
thing itself. He panegyrized the Roman Catholic religion. "We must,"
he said, "have a rule of faith; and the great value of it consists
in its being fixed, and as little liable as possible to change, We,"
he said, "had made Scripture the foundation of our faith, but it was
insufficient. We ourselves would not venture to put it into the hands
of common men: for holy as it is, and full as every leaf is of the
Spirit of God, still the worldly-minded man is insensible of all this,
and finds rather perplexities and stumbling-blocks throughout. What
good can a mere layman extract from the histories of sinful men, which
are contained therein, and which the Holy Ghost has there recorded for
the strengthening of the faith of the tried and experienced children
of God? What benefit can a common man draw from all this, when he is
unable to consider the whole context and connection? How is such a
person to see his way clear out of the seeming contradictions which
occasionally occur?--out of the difficulties which arise from the
ill arrangement of the books, and the differences of style, when
the learned themselves find it so hard, and while so many passages
make them hold their reason in abeyance? What ought we therefore to
teach? A rule of faith founded on Scripture, and proved by the best
of commentaries? But who then is to comment upon the Scripture? Who
is to set up this rule? I, perhaps, or some other man? By no means.
Every man has his own way of taking and seeing things, and represents
them after his own ideas. That would be to give to the people as many
systems of doctrines as there are are heads in the world, and to
produce inexplicable confusion as indeed had already been done. No, it
remains for the Holy Church alone to interpret Scripture to determine
the rule of faith by which the souls of men are to be guided and
governed. And what is the church? It is not any single supreme head, or
any particular member alone. No! it is all the holiest, most learned,
and most experienced men of all times, who, with the co-operation of
the Holy Spirit, have successively combined together in building up
that great, universal, and agreeing body, which has its great councils
for its members to communicate their thoughts to one another, and for
mutual edification; which banishes error, and thereby imparts to our
holy religion a certainty and a stability such as no other profession
can pretend to, and gives it a foundation and strengthens it with
bulwarks which even hell itself cannot overthrow. And just so is it
also with the text of the sacred scriptures. We have," he said, "the
Vulgate, moreover an approved version of the Vulgate, and of every
sentence a commentary which the church itself has accredited. Hence
arises that uniformity of our teaching which surprises every one.
Whether," he continued, "you hear me preaching in this most remote
corner of the world, or in the great capital of a distant country are
listening to the dullest or cleverest of preachers, all will hold one
and the same language; a Catholic Christian will always hear the same
doctrine; everywhere will he be instructed and edified in the same
manner. And this it is which constitutes the certainty of our faith;
which gives us the peace and confidence by which each one in life holds
sure communion with his brother Catholics, and at death can calmly part
in the sure hope of meeting one another again."

In his speech, as in a sermon, he let the subjects follow in due order,
and spoke more from an inward feeling of satisfaction that he was
exhibiting himself under a favourable aspect than from any bigotted
anxiety for conversion. During the delivery he would occasionally
change the arm he rested upon, or draw them both into the arms of his
gown, or let them rest on his portly stomach; now and then he would,
with much grace, draw his snuff-box out of his capote, and after using
it replace it with a careless ease. We listened to him attentively,
and he seemed to be quite content with our way of receiving his
instructions. How greatly amazed would he have been if an angel had
revealed to him, at the moment, that he was addressing his peroration
to a descendant of Frederick the Wise.

       *       *       *       *       *

_November_ 13, 1779. _Among the Capuchins, on the summit of Mont S.
Gotthard, Morning, about 10 o'clock._

[Sidenote: Mount S. Gotthard.]

At last we have fortunately reached the utmost limits of our journey.
Here it is determined we shall rest awhile, and then turn our steps
towards our dear fatherland. Very strange are my feelings here, on this
summit, where four years ago I passed a few days with very different
anxieties, sentiments, plans, and hopes, and at a very different season
of the year, when, without any foreboding of my future fortunes, but
moved by I know not what, I turned my back upon Italy, and ignorantly
went to meet my present destiny. I did not even recognise the house
again. Some time ago it was greatly injured by an avalanche, and the
good fathers took advantage of this opportunity, and made a collection
throughout the canton for enlarging and improving their residence.
Both of the two fathers who reside here at present are absent, but,
as I hear, they are still the same that I met four years ago. Father
Seraphin, who has now passed fourteen years in this post is at present
at Milan, and the other is expected to-day from Airolo. In this clear
atmosphere the cold is awful. As soon as dinner is over I will continue
my letter; for, I see clearly we shall not go far outside the door.

       *       *       *       *       *

_After dinner._

It becomes colder and colder; one does not like to stir from the stove.
Indeed it is most delightful to sit upon it, which in this country,
where the stoves are made of stone-tiles, it is very easy to do. First
of all, therefore, we will tell you of our departure from Realp, and
then of our journey hither.

Yesterday evening before we retired to our beds, the good father would
shew us his sleeping cell, where everything was in nice order, in a
very small space. His bed, which consisted of a bag of straw, with a
woollen coverlid, did not appear to us to be anything very meritorious,
as we ourselves had often put up with no better. With great pleasure
and internal satisfaction he showed us everything--his bookcase and
all other things. We praised all that we saw, and parting on the best
terms with each other, we retired for the night. In furnishing our
room, in order that two beds might stand against one wall, both had
been made unusually small. This inconvenience kept me long awake, until
I thought of remedying it by placing four chairs together. It was quite
broad daylight before we awoke this morning. When we went down we found
nothing but happy and friendly faces. Our guides, on the point of
entering upon their return over yesterday's beautiful route, seemed to
look upon it as an epoch, and as a history with which hereafter they
would be able to entertain other strangers, and as they were well paid
the idea of an adventure became complete in their minds. After this we
made a capital breakfast and departed.

Our road now lay through the valley of the Uri, which is remarkable as
having, at so great an elevation, such beautiful meadows and pasturage
for cattle. They make here a cheese which I prefer to all others. No
trees, however, grow here. Sally bushes line all the brooks, and on the
mountains little shrubs grow thickly together. Of all the countries
that I know, this is to me the loveliest and most interesting,--whether
it is that old recollections make it precious to me, or that the
perception of such a long chain of nature's wonders excites within me
a secret and inexpressible feeling of enjoyment. I take it for granted
that you bear in mind that the whole country through which I am leading
you is covered with snow, and that rock and meadow alike are snowed
over. The sky has been quite clear, without a single cloud; the hue far
deeper than one is accustomed to see in low and flat countries, and the
white mountain ridges, which stood out in strong contrast to it, were
either glittering in the sunshine, or else took a greyish tint in the
shade.

In a hour and a half we reached Hôpital,--a little village within the
canton of Uri, which lies on the road to S. Gotthard. Here at last I
regained the track of my former tour. We entered an inn, and though
it was as yet morning, ordered a dinner, and soon afterward began to
ascend the summit. A long train of mules with their bells enlivened
the whole region. It is a sound which awakens all one's recollections
of mountain scenery. The greater part of the train was in advance of
us, and with their sharp iron shoes had pretty well cut up the smooth
icy road. We also saw some labourers who were employed in covering the
slippery ice with fresh earth, in order to render it passable. The wish
which I formerly gave utterance to, that I might one day be permitted
to see this part of the world under snow, is now at last gratified. The
road goes up the Reuss as it dashes down over rocks all the way, and
forms everywhere the most beautiful waterfalls. We stood a long while
attracted by the singular beauty of one which in considerable volume
was dashing over a succession of dark black rocks. Here and there in
the cracks, and on the flat ledges pieces of ice had formed, and the
water seemed to be running over a variegated black and white marble.
The masses of ice glistened like veins of crystal in the sun, and the
water flowed pure and fresh between them.

[Sidenote: Mount S. Gotthard.]

On the mountains there is no more tiresome a fellow-traveller than a
train of mules; they have so unequal a pace. With a strange instinct
they always stop a while at the bottom of a steep ascent, and then dash
off at a quick pace up it, to rest again at the top. Very often too
they will stop at the level spots which do occur now and then, until
they are forced on by the drivers or by other beasts coming up. And so
the foot passenger, by keeping a steady pace, soon gains upon them, and
in the narrow road has to push by them. If you stand still a little
while to observe any object, they in their turn will pass by you, and
you are pestered with the deafening sound of their bells, and hard
brushed with their loads, which project to a good distance on each side
of them. In this way we at last reached the summit of the mountain,
which you can form some idea of by fancying a bald skull surrounded
with a crown. Here one finds oneself on a perfect flat surrounded
with peaks. Far and near the eye falls on nothing but bare and mostly
snow-covered peaks and crags.

It is scarcely possible to keep oneself warm, especially as they have
here no fuel but brushwood, and of that too they are obliged to be very
sparing, as they have to fetch it up the mountains, from a distance of
at least three leagues, for at the summit, they tell us, scarcely any
kind of wood grows. The reverend father is returned from Airolo, so
frozen that on his arrival he could scarcely, utter a word. Although
here the Capuchins are allowed to clothe themselves a little more
comfortably than the rest of their order, still their style of dress
is by no means suited for such a climate as this. All the way up from
Airolo the road was frozen perfectly smooth, and he had the wind in his
face; his beard was quite frozen, and it was a long while before he
recovered himself. We had some conversation together on the hardships
of their residence here; he told us how they managed to get through
the year, their various occupations, and their domestic circumstances.
He could speak nothing but Italian, and so we had an opportunity of
putting to use the exercises in this language which we had taken
during the spring. Towards evening we went for a moment outside the
house-door that the good father might point out to us the peak which
is considered to be the highest summit of Mont Gotthard; but we could
scarcely endure to stay out a very few minutes, so searching and
pinching was the cold. This time, therefore, we shall remain close shut
up within doors, and shall have time enough before we start to-morrow,
to travel again in thought over all the most remarkable parts of this
region.

A brief geographical description will enable you to understand how
remarkable the point is at which we are now sitting. S. Gothard is
not indeed the highest mountain of Switzerland; in Savoy, Mont Blanc
has a far higher elevation and yet it maintains above all others the
rank of a king of mountains, because all the great chains converge
together around him, and all rest upon him as their base. Indeed; if
I do not make a great mistake, I think I was told at Berne, by Herr
Wyttenbach, who, from its highest summit, had seen the peaks of all
the others, that the latter all leaned towards it. The mountains of
Schweitz and Unterwalden, joined by those of Uri range from the north,
from the east those of the Grisons, from the south those of the Italian
cantons, while from the east, by means of the Furca, the double line
of mountains which enclose Valais, presses upon it. Not far from this
house, there are two small lakes, one of which sends forth the Ticino
through gorges and valleys into Italy, while from the other, in like
manner, the Reuss proceeds till it empties itself in the Lake of the
Forest towns.[2] Not far from this spot are the sources of the Rhine,
which pursue an easterly course, and if then we take in the Rhone
which rises at the foot of the Furca and runs westward through Valais,
we shall find ourselves at the point of a cross, from which mountain
ranges and rivers proceed towards the four cardinal points of heaven.



[Footnote 1: The Duke Charles Augustus of Weimar, who travelled under
the title of Count of....]

[Footnote 2: Lake Lucerne.]




TRAVELS IN ITALY.

AUCH IN ARCADIEN.




TRAVELS IN ITALY



I TOO IN ARCADIA!




FROM CARLSBAD TO THE BRENNER.


_Ratisbon, September_ 4, 1786.

As early as 3 o'clock in the morning I stole out of Carlsbad, for
otherwise I should not have been allowed to depart quietly. The band of
friends who, on the 28th of August, rejoiced to celebrate my birthday,
had in some degree acquired a right to detain me. However, it was
impossible to stay here any longer. Having packed a portmanteau merely,
and a knapsack, I jumped alone into a post-chaise, and by half past 8,
on a beautifully calm but foggy morning, I arrived at Zevoda. The upper
clouds were streaky and fleecy, the lower ones heavy. This appeared to
me a good sign. I hoped that, after so wretched a summer, we should
enjoy a fine autumn. About 12, I got to Egra, under a warm and shining
sun, and now, it occurred to me, that this place had the same latitude
as my own native town, and it was a real pleasure to me once more to
take my midday meal beneath a bright sky, at the fiftieth degree.

On entering Bavaria one comes at once on the monastery of Waldsassen,
with the valuable domain of the ecclesiastical lords, who were wise
sooner than other men. It lies in a dish-like, not to say cauldron-like
hollow, in beautiful meadow-land, inclosed on all sides by slightly
ascending and fertile heights. This cloister also possesses property
in the neighbouring districts. The soil is decomposed slate-clay.
The quartz, which is found in this mineral formation, and which does
not dissolve nor crumble away, makes the earth loose and extremely
fertile. The land continues to rise until you come to Tirschenreuth,
and the waters flow against you, to fall into the Egra and the Elbe.
From Tirschenreuth it descends southwards, and the streams run towards
the Danube. I can form a pretty rapid idea of a country as soon as
I know by examination which way even the least brook runs, and can
determine the river to whose basin it belongs. By this means, even in
those districts which it is impossible to take a survey of, one can, in
thought, form a connection between lines of mountains and valleys. From
the last-mentioned place begins an excellent road formed of granite.
A better one cannot be conceived, for, as the decomposed granite
consists of gravelly and argillaceous earths, they bind excellently
together, and form a solid foundation, so as to make a road as smooth
as a threshing floor. The country through which it runs looks so much
the worse; it also consists of a granite-sand, lies very flat and
marshy, and the excellent road is all the more desirable. And as,
moreover, the roads descend gradually from this plane, one gets on with
a rapidity that strikingly contrasts with the general snail's pace of
Bohemian travelling. The inclosed billet will give you the names of
the different stages. Suffice it to say, that on the second morning I
was at Ratisbon, and so I did these twenty-four miles[1] and a half
in thirty-nine hours. As the day began to dawn I found myself between
Schwondorf and Begenstauf, and I observed here a change for the better
in the cultivation of the land. The soil was no longer the mere debris
of the rock, but a mixed alluvial deposit. The inundation by which it
was deposited must have been caused by the ebb and flood, from the
basin of the Danube into all the valleys which at present drain their
water into it. In this way were formed the natural bolls (_pölder_), on
which the tillage is carried on. This remark applies to all lands in
the neighbourhood of large or small streams, and with this guide any
observer may form a conclusion as to the soils suited for tillage.

[Sidenote: Ratisbon.]

Ratisbon is, indeed, beautifully situated. The country could not
but invite men to settle and build a city in it, and the spiritual
lords have shown their judgment. All the land around the town
belongs to them; in the city itself churches crowd churches, and
monastic buildings are no less thick. The Danube reminds me of the
dear old Main. At Frankfort, indeed, the river and bridges have a
better appearance; here, however, the view of the northern suburb,
Stadt-am-hof, looks very pretty, as it lies before you across the river.

Immediately on my arrival I betook myself to the College of the
Jesuits, where the annual play was being acted by the pupils. I saw
the end of the opera, and the beginning of the tragedy. They did not
act worse than many an unexperienced company of amateurs, and their
dresses were beautiful, almost too superb. This public exhibition also
served to convince me still more strongly of the worldly prudence of
the Jesuits. They neglect nothing that is likely to produce an effect,
and contrive to practise it with interest and care. In this there is
not merely prudence, such as we understand the term abstractedly; it is
associated with a real pleasure in the matter in hand, a sympathy and
a fellow feeling, a taste, such as arises from the experience of life.
As this great society has among its members organ builders, sculptors,
and gilders, so assuredly there are some who patronise the stage with
learning and taste; and just as they decorate their churches with
appropriate ornaments, these clear-sighted men take advantage of the
world's sensual eye by an imposing theatre.

To-day I am writing in latitude forty-nine degrees. The weather
promises fair, and even here the people complain of the coldness and
wet of the past summer. The morning was cool, but it was the beginning
of a glorious and temperate day. The mild atmosphere which the mighty
river brings with it is something quite peculiar. The fruits are
nothing very surprising. I have tasted, indeed, some excellent pears,
but I am longing for grapes and figs.

My attention is rivetted by the actions and principles of the Jesuits.
Their churches, towers, and buildings, have a something great and
perfect in their plan, which imposes all beholders with a secret awe.
In the decoration, gold, silver, metal, and polished marble, are
accumulated in such splendour and profusion as must dazzle the beggars
of all ranks. Here and there one fails not to meet with something in
bad taste, in order to appease and to attract humanity. This is the
general character of the external ritual of the Roman Catholic Church;
never, however, have I seen it applied with so much shrewdness, tact,
and consistency, as among the Jesuits. Here all tends to this one end;
unlike the members of the other spiritual orders, they do not continue
an old worn-out ceremonial, but, humouring the spirit of the age,
continually deck it out with fresh pomp and splendour.

A rare stone is quarried here into blocks. In appearance it is a
species of conglomerate; however, it must be held to be older, more
primary, and of a porphyritic nature. It is of a greenish color, mixed
with quartz, and is porous; in it are found large pieces of very solid
jasper, in which, again, are to be seen little round pieces of a kind
of Breccia. A specimen would have been very instructive, and one could
not help longing for one; the rock, however, was too solid, and I had
taken a vow not to load myself with stones on this journey.


[Footnote 1: A German mile is exactly equal to four English
geographical, and to rather more than four and a quarter ordinary
miles. The distance in the text may, therefore, he roughly set down as
one hundred and four miles English. [A. J. W. M.]]

       *       *       *       *       *

_Munich, September_ 6, 1786.

At half past 12, on the 5th of September, I set off for Ratisbon.
At Abbach the country is beautiful, while the Danube dashes against
limestone rocks as far as Saal. The limestone, somewhat similar to
that at Osteroda, on the Hartz, close, but, on the whole, porous. By
6 A.M. I was in Munich, and, after having looked about me for some
twelve hours, I will notice only a few points. In the Sculpture Gallery
I did not find myself at home. I must practise my eye first of all
on paintings. There are some excellent things here. The sketches of
Reubens from the Luxembourg Gallery caused me the greatest delight.

Here, also, is the rare toy, a model of Trajan's Pillar. The material
Lapis Lazuli, and the figures in gilt. It is, at any rate, a rare piece
of workmanship, and, in this light, one takes pleasure in looking at it.

In the Hall of the Antiques I soon felt that my eye was not much
practised on such objects. On this account I was unwilling to stay long
there, and to waste my time. There was much that did not take my fancy,
without my being able to say why. A _Drusus_ attracted my attention;
two Antonines pleased me, as also did a few other things. On the whole,
the arrangement of the objects was not happy, although there is an
evident attempt to make a display with them, and the hall, or rather
the museum, would have a good appearance if it were kept in better
repair and cleaner. In the Cabinet of Natural History I saw beautiful
things from the Tyrol, which, in smaller specimens, I was already
acquainted with, and, indeed, possessed.

[Sidenote: Munich--Mittelwald.]

I was met by a woman with figs, which, as the first, tasted delicious.
But the fruit in general is not good considering the latitude of
forty-eight degrees. Every one is complaining here of the wet and
cold. A mist, which might well be called a rain, overtook me this
morning early before I reached Munich. Throughout the day the wind has
continued to blow cold from off the Tyrolese mountains. As I looked
towards them from the tower I found them covered, and the whole heavens
shrouded with clouds. Now, at setting, the sun is shining on the top
of the ancient tower, which stands right opposite to my window. Pardon
me that I dwell so much on wind and weather. The traveller by land
is almost as much dependent upon them as the voyager by sea, and it
would be a sad thing if my autumn in foreign lands should be as little
favoured as my summer at home.

And now straight for Innspruck. What do I not pass over, both on my
right and on my left, in order to carry out the one thought which has
become almost too old in my soul.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Mittelwald, September_ 7, 1786.

It seems as if my guardian-spirit had said "Amen" to my "Credo," and
I thank him that he has brought me to this place on so fine a day. My
last postilion said, with a joyous exclamation, it was the first in
the whole summer. I cherish in quiet my superstition that it will long
continue so; however, my friends must pardon me if again I talk of air
and clouds.

As I started from Munich about 5 o'clock, the sky cleared up. On the
mountains of the Tyrol the clouds stood in huge masses. The streaks,
too, in the lower regions did not move. The road lies on the heights
over hills of alluvial gravel, while below one sees the Isar flowing
slowly. Here the work of the inundations of the primal oceans become
conceivable. In many granite-rubbles I found the counterparts of the
specimens in my cabinet, for which I have to thank Knebel.

The mists from the river and the meadows hung about for a time, but,
at last, they, too, dispersed. Between these gravelly hills, which
you must think of as extending, both in length and breadth, for many
leagues, is a highly beautiful and fertile region like that in the
basin of the Regen. Now one comes again upon the Isar, and observe,
in its channel, a precipitous section of the gravel hills, at least a
hundred and fifty feet high. I arrived at Wolfrathshausen and reached
the eight-and-fortieth degree. The sun was scorching hot; no one relies
on the fine weather; every one is complaining of the past year, and
bitterly weeping over the arrangements of Providence.

And now a new world opened upon me. I was approaching the mountains
which stood out more and more distinctly.

Benedictbeuern has a glorious situation and charms one at the first
sight. On a fertile plain is a long and broad white building, and,
behind it, a broad and lofty ridge of rocks. Next, one ascends to the
Kochel-see, and, still higher on the mountains, to the Walchen-see.
Here I greeted the first snow-capt summit, and, in the midst of my
admiration at being so near the snowy mountains, I was informed that
yesterday it had thundered in these parts, and that snow had fallen on
the heights. From these meteoric tokens people draw hopes of better
weather, and from this early snow, anticipate change in the atmosphere.
The rocks around me are all of limestone, of the oldest formation,
and containing no fossils. These limestone mountains extend in vast,
unbroken ranges from Dalmatia to Mount St. Gothard. Hacquet has
travelled over a considerable portion of the chain. They dip on the
primary rocks of the quartz and clay.

[Sidenote: The road up the Brenner.]

I reached the Wallen-see about half past 4. About three miles from this
place I met with a pretty adventure. A harper came before me with his
daughter, a little girl, of about eleven years, and begged me to take
up his child. He went on with his instrument; I let her sit by my side,
and she very carefully placed at her feet a large new box. A pretty
and accomplished creature, and already a great traveller over the
world. She had been on a pilgrimage on foot with her mother to Maria
Einsiedel, and both had determined to go upon the still longer journey
to S. Jago of Compostella, when her mother was carried off by death,
and was unable to fulfil her vow. It was impossible, she thought, to do
too much in honor of the Mother of God. After a great fire, in which a
whole house was burnt to the lowest foundation, she herself had seen
the image of the Mother of God, which stood over the door beneath a
glass frame-image and glass both uninjured--which was surely a palpable
miracle. All her journeys she had taken on foot; she had just played in
Munich before the Elector of Bavaria, and altogether her performances
had been witnessed by one-and-twenty princely personages. She quite
entertained me. Pretty, large, hazel eyes, a proud forehead, which she
frequently wrinkled by an elevation of the brows. She was natural and
agreeable when she spoke, and especially when she laughed out loud with
the free laugh of childhood. When, on the other hand, she was silent,
she seemed to have a meaning in it, and, with her upper lip, had a
sinister expression. I spoke with her on very many subjects, she was at
home with all of them, and made most pertinent remarks. Thus she asked
me once, what tree one we came to, was. It was a huge and beautiful
maple, the first I had seen on my whole journey. She narrowly observed
it, and was quite delighted when several more appeared, and she was
able to recognize this tree. She was going, she told me, to Botzen
for the fair, where she guessed I too was hastening. When she met me
there I must buy her a fairing, which, of course, I promised to do. She
intended to put on there her new coif which she had had made out of her
earnings at Munich. She would show it to me beforehand. So she opened
the bandbox and I could not do less than admire the head-gear, with its
rich embroidery and beautiful ribbons.

Over another pleasant prospect we felt a mutual pleasure. She asserted
that we had fine weather before us. For they always carried their
barometer with them and that was the harp. When the treble-string
twanged it was sure to be fine weather, and it had done so yesterday. I
accepted the omen, and we parted in the best of humours, and with the
hope of a speedy meeting.

       *       *       *       *       *

_On the Brenner, September_ 8, 1786, _Evening._

Hurried, not to say driven, here by necessity, I have reached at last
a resting-place, in a calm, quiet spot, just such as I could wish it
to be. It has been a day which for many years it will be a pleasure
to recall. I left Mittelwald about 6 in the morning, and a sharp wind
soon perfectly cleared the sky. The cold was such as one looks for only
in February. But now, in the splendour of the setting sun, the dark
foreground, thickly planted with fig-trees, and peeping between them
the grey limestone rocks, and behind all, the highest summit of the
mountain covered with snow, and standing out in bold outline against
the deep blue sky, furnish precious and ever-changing images.

One enters the Tyrol by Scharnitz. The boundary line is marked by a
wall which bars the passage through the valley, and abuts on both
sides on the mountains. It looks well: on one side the rocks are
fortified, on the other they ascend perpendicularly. From Seefeld the
road continually grew more interesting, and if from Benedictbeuern to
this place it went on ascending, from height to height, while all the
streams of the neighbouring districts were making for the Isar, now
one caught a sight over a ridge of rocks of the valley of the Inn, and
Inzingen lay before us. The sun was high and hot, so that I was obliged
to throw off some of my coats, for, indeed, with the varying atmosphere
of the day, I am obliged frequently to change my clothing.

At Zierl one begins to descend into the valley of the Inn. Its
situation is indescribably beautiful, and the bright beams of the sun
made it look quite cheerful. The postilion went faster than I wished,
for he had not yet heard mass, and was anxious to be present at it
at Innspruck, where, as it was the festival of the Nativity of the
Virgin Mary, he hoped to be a devout participant. Accordingly, we
rattled along the banks of the Inn, hurrying by Martinswand, a vast,
precipitous, wall-like rock of limestone. To the spot where the Emperor
Maximilian is said to have lost himself, I ventured to descend and
came up again without a guide, although it is, in any case, a rash
undertaking.

[Sidenote: Innsbruck--Meteorology.]

Innsbruck is gloriously situated in a rich, broad valley, between high
rocks and mountains. Everybody and everything was decked out in honour
of the Virgin's Nativity. At first I had some wish to stop there, but
it promised neither rest nor peace. For a little while I amused myself
with the son of my host. At last the people who were to attend to
me came in one by one. For the sake of health and prosperity to the
flocks, they had all gone on a pilgrimage to Wilden, a place of worship
on the mountains, about three miles and a half from the city. About 2
o'clock, as my rolling carriage divided the gay, merry throng, every
one was in holiday garb and promenade.

From Innsbruck the road becomes even still more beautiful; no powers of
description can equal it. The most frequented road, ascending a gorge
which empties its waters into the Inn, offers to the eye innumerable
varieties of scenery. While the road often runs close to the most
rugged rocks--indeed is frequently cut right through them--one sees the
other side above you slightly inclining, and cultivated with the most
surprising skill. On the high and broad-ascending surface lie valleys,
houses, cottages, and cabins, whitewashed, glittering among the fields
and hedges. Soon all changed; the land becomes available only for
pastime, until it, too, terminates on the precipitous ascent. I have
gained some ideas for my scheme of a creation; none, however, perfectly
new and unexpected. I have also dreamed much of the model I have so
long talked about, by which I am desirous to give a notion of all that
is brooding in my own mind, and which, in nature itself, I cannot point
out to every eye.

Now it grew darker and darker; individual objects were lost in the
obscurity; the masses became constantly vaster and grander; at last, as
the whole moved before me like some deeply mysterious figure, the moon
suddenly illuminated the snow-capt summits; and now I am waiting till
morning shall light up this rocky chasm in which I am shut up on the
boundary line of the north and south.

I must again add a few remarks on the weather, which, perhaps, favours
me so highly, in return for the great attention I pay to it. On the
lowlands one has good or bad weather when it is already settled for
either; on the mountains one is present with the beginning of the
change. I have so often experienced this when on my travels, or walks,
or hunting excursions, I have passed days and nights between the
cliffs in the mountain forests. On such occasions, a conceit occurred
to me, which I give you as nothing better, but which, however, I cannot
get rid of, as indeed, generally, such conceits are, of all things,
most difficult to get rid of. I altogether look upon it as a truth, and
so I will now give utterance to it, especially as I have already so
often had occasion to prove the indulgence of my friends.

When we look at the mountains, either closely or from a distance, and
see their summits above us at one time glittering in the sunshine, at
another enveloped in mist, swept round with strong clouds, or blackened
with showers, we are disposed to ascribe it all to the atmosphere, as
we can easily with the eye see and discern its movements and changes.
The mountains, on the other hand, with their glorious shapes lie before
our outward senses immoveable. We take them to be dead because they are
rigid, and we believe them to be inactive because they are at rest. For
a long while, however, I cannot put off the impulse to ascribe, for
the most part, to their imperceptible and secret influence the changes
which are observable in the atmosphere. For instance, I believe that
the mass of the earth generally, and, therefore, also in an especial
way its more considerable continents do not exercise a constant
and invariable force of attraction, but that this attractive force
manifests itself by a certain pulse which, according to intrinsic,
necessary, and probably also accidental, external causes, increases
or decreases. Though all attempts by other objects to determine this
oscillation may be too limited and rude, the atmosphere furnishes
a standard both delicate and large enough to test their silent
operations. When this attractive force decreases never so little,
immediately the decrease in the gravity and the diminished elasticity
of the air indicates this effect. The atmosphere is now unable to
sustain the moisture which is diffused throughout it either chemically
or mechanically; the clouds lower, and the rain falls and passes to
the lowlands. When, however, the mountains increase their power of
attraction, then the elasticity of the air is again restored, and two
important phenomena result. First of all, the mountains collect around
their summits vast masses of clouds; hold them fast and firm above
themselves like second heads, until, as determined by the contest
of electrical forces within them, they pour down as thunder-showers,
rain or mist, and then, on all that remains the electricity of the air
operates, which is now restored to a capacity of retaining more water,
dissolving and elaborating it. I saw quite clearly the dispersion of a
cloudy mass of this kind. It was hanging on the very highest peak; the
red tints of the setting sun still illuminated it. Slowly and slowly
pieces detached themselves from either end. Some fleecy nebulæ were
drawn off and carried up still higher, and then disappeared, and in
this manner, by degrees, the whole mass vanished, and was strangely
spun away before my eyes, like a distaff, by invisible hands.

[Sidenote: Meteorology--Vegetation.]

If my friends are disposed to laugh at the itinerant meteorologist and
his strange theories, I shall, perhaps, give them more solid cause
for laughter by some other of my remarks, for I must confess that, as
my journey was, in fact, a flight from all the unshapely things which
tormented me in latitude 51°, I hoped, in 48°, to meet with a true
Goshen. But I found myself disappointed; for latitude alone does not
make a climate and fine weather, but the mountain-chains--especially
such as intersect the land from east to west. In these, great changes
are constantly going on, and the lands which lie to the north have
most to suffer from them. Thus, further north, the weather throughout
the summer was determined by the great Alpine range on which I am now
writing. Here, for the last few months, it has rained incessantly,
while a south-east or south-west wind carried the showers north-wards.
In Italy they are said to have had fine weather, indeed, a little too
dry.

And now a few words on a kindred subject--the vegetable world, which,
in so many ways, depends on climate and moisture, and the height of
the mountain-ranges. Here, too, I have noticed no remarkable change,
but still an improvement. In the valley before Innspruck, apples and
pears are abundant, while the peaches and grapes are brought from the
Welsh districts, or, in other words, the Southern Tyrol. Near Innspruck
they grow a great deal of Indian corn and buck wheat, which they call
_blende._ On the Brenner I first saw the larch, and near Schemberg the
pine. Would the harper's daughter have questioned me about them also?

As regards the plants, I feel still more how perfect a tyro I am. Up
to Munich I saw, I believed, none but those I was well accustomed to.
In truth, my hurried travelling, by day and night, was not favorable to
nicer observation on such objects. Now, it is true, I have my _Linnæus_
at hand, and his Terminology is well stamped on my brain; but whence
is the time and quiet to come for analysing, which, if I at all know
myself, will never become my forte? I, therefore, sharpen my eye for
the more general features, and when I met with the first Gentiana near
the Walchensee, it struck me that it was always near the water, that I
had hitherto noticed any new plants.

What made me still more attentive was the influence which the altitude
of the mountain region evidently had on plants. Not only did I meet
there with new specimens, but I also observed that the growth of the
old ones was materially altered. While in the lower regions branches
and stalks were stronger and more sappy, the buds stood closer
together, and the leaves broader; the higher you got on the mountains
the stalks and branches became more fragile, the buds were at greater
intervals, and the leaves thinner and more lanceolate. I noticed this
in the case of a Willow and of a Gentiana, and convinced myself that it
was not a case of different species. So also, near the Walchensee, I
noticed longer and thinner rushes than anywhere else.

The limestone of the Alps, which I have as yet travelled over, has a
greyish tint, and beautiful, singular, irregular forms, although the
rock is divisible into blocks and strata. But as irregular strata
occur, and the rock in general does not crumble equally under the
influence of the weather, the sides and the peaks have a singular
appearance. This kind of rock comes up the Brenner to a great height.
In the region of the Upper Lake I noticed a slight modification. On a
micaceous slate of dark green and grey colours, and thickly veined with
quartz, lay a white, solid limestone, which, in its detritus, sparkled
and stood in great masses, with numberless clefts. Above it I again
found micaceous slate, which, however, seemed to me to be of a softer
texture than the first. Higher up still there was to be seen a peculiar
kind of gneiss, or rather a granitic species which approximated to
gneiss, as is in the district of Ellbogen. Here at the top, and
opposite the Inn, the rock is micaceous slate. The streams which come
from the mountains leave deposits of nothing but this stone, and of the
grey limestone.

[Sidenote: Geology--My fellow travellers.]

Not far from here must be the granitic base on which all rests. The
maps show that one is on the side of the true great Brenner, from which
the streams of a wide surrounding district take their rise.

The following is my external judgment of the people. They are active
and straightforward. In form they are pretty generally alike: hazel,
well-opened eyes; with the women brown and well-defined eyebrows, but
with the men light and thick. Among the grey rocks the green hats of
the men have a cheerful appearance. The hats are generally ornamented
with ribbons or broad silk-sashes, and with fringes which are prettily
sewn on. On the other hand, the women disfigure themselves with white,
undressed cotton caps of a large size, very much like men's nightcaps.
These give them a very strange appearance; but abroad, they wear the
green hats of the men, which become them very much.

I have opportunity of seeing the value the common class of people put
upon peacock's feathers, and, in general, how every variegated feather
is prized. He who wishes to travel through these mountains will do well
to take with him a lot of them. A feather of this kind produced at the
proper moment will serve instead of the ever-welcome "something to
drink."

Whilst I am putting together, sorting, and arranging these sheets, in
such a way that my friends may easily take a review of my fortunes up
to this point, and that I may, at the same time, dismiss from my soul
all that I have lately thought and experienced, I have, on the other
hand, cast many a trembling look on some packets of which I must give a
good but brief account. They are to be my fellow travellers; may they
not exercise too great an influence on my next few days.

I brought with me to Carlsbad the whole of my MSS. in order to complete
the edition of my works, which Goschen has undertaken. The unprinted
ones I had long possessed in beautiful transcripts, by the practised
hand of Secretary Vögel. This active person accompanied me on this
occasion, in order that I might, if necessary, command his dexterous
services. By this means, and with the never-failing co-operation of
Herder, I was soon in a condition to send to the printer the first four
volumes, and was on the point of doing the same with the last four.
The latter consisted, for the most part, of mere unfinished sketches,
indeed of fragments; for, in truth, my perverse habit of beginning
many plans, and then, as the interest waned, laying them aside, had
gradually gained strength with increasing years, occupations, and
duties.

As I had brought these scraps with me, I readily listened to the
requests of the literary circles of Carlsbad, and read out to them all
that before had remained unknown to the world, which already was bitter
enough in its complaints that much with which it had entertained itself
still remained unfinished.

The celebration of my birthday consisted mainly in sending me several
poems in the name of my commenced but unfinished works. Among these,
one was distinguished above the rest. It was called the _Birds._
A deputation of these happy creatures being sent to a true friend
earnestly entreat him to found at once and establish the kingdom so
long promised to them. Not less obvious and playful were the allusions
to my other unfinished pieces, so that, all at once, they again
possessed a living interest for me, and I related to my friends the
designs I had formed, and the entire plans. This gave rise to the
expression of wishes and urgent requests, and gave the game entirely
into Herder's hands, while he attempted to induce me to take back
these papers, and, above all, to bestow upon the _Iphigenia_ the
pains it well deserved. The fragment which lies before me is rather a
sketch than a finished piece; it is written in poetical prose, which
occasionally falls into a sort of Iambical rhythm, and even imitates
other syllabic metres. This, indeed, does great injury to the effect
unless it is read well, and unless, by skilful turns, this defect is
carefully concealed. He pressed this matter on me very earnestly, and
as I concealed from him as well as the rest the great extent of my
intended tour, and as he believed I had nothing more in view than a
mountain trip, and as he was always ridiculing my geographical and
mineralogical studies, he insisted I should act much wiser if, instead
of breaking stones, I would put my hand to this work. I could not but
give way to so many and well-meant remonstrances; but, as yet, I have
had no opportunity to turn my attention to these matters. I now detach
_Iphigenia_ from the bundle and take her with me as my fellow-traveller
into the beautiful and warm country of the South. The days are so long,
and there will be nothing to disturb reflection, while the glorious
objects of the surrounding scenery by no means depress the poetic
nerve; indeed, assisted by movement and the free air, they rather
stimulate and call it forth more quickly and more vividly.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM THE BRENNER TO VERONA.

_Trent, morning of the 11th Sept._

After full fifty hours, passed in active and constant occupation,
I reached here about 8 o'clock yesterday evening, and soon after
retired to rest, so that I now find myself in condition to go on
with my narrative. On the evening of the 9th, when I had closed the
first portion of my diary, I thought I would try and draw the inn
and post-house on the Brenner, just as it stood. My attempt was
unsuccessful, for I missed the character of the place; I went home
therefore in somewhat of an ill-humor. Mine host asked me if I would
not depart, telling me it was moon-light and the best travelling.
Although I knew perfectly well that, as he wanted his horses early in
the morning to carry in the after-crop (_Grummet_), and wished to have
them home again in time for that purpose, his advice was given with a
view to his own interest, I nevertheless took it, because it accorded
with my own inclination. The sun reappeared, the air was tolerable, I
packed up, and started about 7 o'clock. The blue atmosphere triumphed
over the clouds, and the evening was most beautiful.

[Sidenote: Trent.]

The postilion fell asleep, and the horses set off at a quick trot
down-hill, always taking the well-known route. When they came to a
village they went somewhat slower. Then the driver would wake up, and
give them a fresh stimulus, and thus we descended at a good pace with
high rocks on both sides of us, or by the banks of the rapid river
Etsch. The moon arose and shed her light upon the massive objects
around. Some mills, which stood between primæval pine-trees, over the
foaming stream, seemed really everlasting.

When, at 9 o'clock, I had reached Sterzingen, they gave me clearly to
understand, that they wished me off again. Arriving in Mittelwald,
exactly at 12 o'clock, I found everybody asleep except the postilion,
and we were obliged to go on to Brixen, where I was again taken off in
like manner, so that at the dawn of day I was in Colman. The postilions
drove so fast that there was neither seeing nor hearing, and although
I could not help being sorry at travelling through this noble country
with such frightful rapidity; and at night, too, as though I was
flying the place, I nevertheless felt an inward joy, that a favorable
wind blew behind me, and seemed to hurry me towards the object of my
wishes. At day-break I perceived the first vineyard. A woman with
pears and peaches met me, and thus we went on to Teutschen, where
I arrived at 7 o'clock, and then was again hurried on. After I had
again travelled northwards for a while, I at last saw in the bright
sunshine the valley where Botzen is situated. Surrounded by steep and
somewhat high mountains, it is open towards the south, and sheltered
towards the north by the Tyrolese range. A mild, soft air pervaded the
spot. Here the Etsch again winds towards the south. The hills at the
foot of the mountain are cultivated with vines. The vinestocks are
trained over long but low arbourwork; the purple grapes are gracefully
suspended from the top, and ripen in the warmth of the soil, which is
close beneath them. In the bottom of the valley, which for the most
part consists of nothing but meadows, the vine is cultivated in narrow
rows of similar festoons, at a little distance from each other, while
between grows the Indian corn, the stalks of which at this time are
high. I have often seen it ten feet high. The fibrous' male blossom is
not yet cut off, as is the case when fructification has ceased for some
time.

I came to Botzen in a bright sunshine. A good assemblage of mercantile
faces pleased me much. Everywhere one sees the liveliest tokens. An
existence full of purpose, and highly comfortable. In the square some
fruit-women were sitting with round fiat baskets, above four feet in
diameter, in which peaches were arranged side by side, so as to avoid
pressure. Here I thought of a verse, which I had seen written on the
window of the inn at Ratisbon:

    Comme les pêches et les melons
    Sont pour la bouche d'un Baron,
    Ainsi les verges et les bâtons
    Sont pour les fous, dit Salomon.

It is obvious that this was written by a northern baron, and no less
clear is it that if he were in this country, he would alter his notions.

At the Botzen fair a brisk silk-trade is carried on. Cloths are also
brought here, and as much leather as can be procured from the mountain
districts. Several merchants, however, came chiefly for the sake of
depositing their money, taking orders, and opening new credits. I felt
I could have taken great delight in examining the various products
that were collected here; but the impulse, the state of disquiet,
which keeps urging me from behind, would not let me rest, and I must
at once hasten from the spot. For my consolation, however, the whole
matter is printed in the statistical papers, and we can, if we require
it, get such instructions from books. I have now to deal only with
the sensible impressions, which no book or picture can give. In fact,
I am again taking interest in the world, I am testing my faculty of
observation, and am trying how far I can go with my science and my
acquirements, how far my eye is clear and sharp, how much I can take in
at a hasty glance, and whether those wrinkles, that are imprinted upon
my heart, are ever again to be obliterated. Even in these few days, the
circumstance that I have had to wait upon myself, and have always been
obliged to keep my attention and presence of mind on the alert, has
given me quite a new elasticity of intellect. I must now busy myself
with the currency, must change, pay, note down, write, while I formerly
did nothing but think, will, reflect, command, and dictate.

[Sidenote: Botzen--Trent.]

From Botzen to Trent the stage is nine leagues and runs through a
valley, which constantly increases in fertility. All that merely
struggles into vegetation on the higher mountains, has here more
strength and vitality; the sun shines with warmth, and there is once
more belief in a Deity.

A poor woman cried out to me to take her child into my vehicle, as the
hot soil was burning its feet. I did her this little service out of
honour to the strong light of heaven. The child was strangely decked
out, but I could get nothing from it in any way.

The Etsch flows more gently in these parts, and it makes broad deposits
of gravel in many places. On the land, near the river and up the
hills, the planting is so thick and close, that one fancies one thing
will suffocate the other. It is a regular thicket of vineyards,
maize, mulberry trees, apples, pears, quinces, and nuts. The danewort
(_Attig_) thrives luxuriantly on the walls. Ivy with solid stems runs
up the rocks, on which it spreads itself; the lizards glide through the
interstices, and whatever has life or motion here, reminds one of the
most charming works of art. The braided top-knots of the women, the
bared breasts and light jackets of the men, the fine oxen which you see
driven home from market, the laden asses,--all combine to produce one
of Heinrich Roos's animated pictures. And when evening draws on, and
through the calmness of the air, a few clouds rest upon the mountains,
rather standing than running against the sky, and, as immediately after
sunset, the chirp of the grasshoppers begins to grow loud, one feels
quite at home in the world, and not a mere exile. I am as reconciled to
the place as if I were born and bred in it, and had now just returned
from a whaling expedition to Greenland. Even the dust, which here as
in our fatherland often plays about my wheels, and which has so long
remained strange to me, I welcome as an old friend. The bell-like voice
of the cricket is most piercing, and far from unpleasant. A cheerful
effect is produced, when playful boys whistle against a field of such
singers, and you almost fancy that the sound on each side is raised by
emulation. The evening here is perfectly mild no less than the day.

If any one who lived in the South, or came from the South, heard my
enthusiasm about these matters, he would consider me very childish.
Ah, what I express here, I long ago was conscious of, while ruffling
under an unkindly sky; and now I love to experience as an exception the
happiness which I hope soon to enjoy as a regular natural necessity.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Trent, the evening of the 10th Sept._

I have wandered about the city, which has an old, not to say a very
primitive look, though there are new and well-built houses in some of
the streets. In the church there is a picture in which the assembled
council of the Jesuits is represented, listening to a sermon delivered
by the general of the order. I should like to know what he is trying to
palm upon them. The church of these fathers may at once be recognised
from the outside by pilasters of red marble on the façade. The doors
are covered by a heavy curtain, which serves to keep off the dust. I
raised it, and entered a small vestibule. The church itself is parted
off by an iron grating, but so that it can be entirely overlooked. All
was as silent as the grave, for divine service is no longer performed
here. The front door stood open, merely because all churches must be
open at the time of Vespers.

[Sidenote: Trent.]

While I stood considering the architecture, which was, I found, similar
to other Jesuit churches, an old man stepped in, and at once took off
his little black cap. His old faded black coat indicated that he was a
needy priest. He knelt down before the grating, and rose again after
a short prayer. When he turned round, he said to himself half-aloud:
"Well, they have driven out the Jesuits, but they ought to have paid
them the cost of the church. I know how many thousands were spent on
the church and the seminary." As he uttered this he left the spot,
and the curtain fell behind him. I, however, lifted it again, and
kept myself quiet. He remained a while standing on the topmost step,
and said: "The Emperor did not do it; the Pope did it." With his
face turned towards the street, so that he could not observe me, he
continued: "First the Spaniards, then we, then the French. The blood
of Abel cries out against his brother Cain!" And thus he went down
the steps and along the street, still talking to himself. I should
conjecture he is one who, having been maintained by the Jesuits, has
lost his wits in consequence of the tremendous fall of the order, and
now comes every day to search the empty vessel for its old inhabitants,
and, after a short prayer, to pronounce a curse upon their enemies.

A young man, whom I questioned about the remarkable sights in the
town, showed me a house, which is called the "Devil's house," because
the devil, who is generally too ready to destroy, is said to have
built it in a single night, with stones rapidly brought to the spot.
However, what is really remarkable about the house, the good man had
not observed, namely, that it is the only house of good taste that I
have yet seen in Trent, and was certainly built by some good Italian,
at an earlier period. At 5 o'clock in the evening I again set off.
The spectacle of yesterday evening was repeated, and at sun-set the
grasshoppers again began to sing. For about a league the journey lies
between walls, above which the grape-espaliers are visible. Other
walls, which are not high enough, have been eked out with stones,
thorns, &c., to prevent passengers from plucking off the grapes. Many
owners sprinkle the foremost rows with lime, which renders the grapes
uneatable, but does not hurt the wine, as the process of fermentation
drives out the heterogeneous matter.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Evening of September 11._

I am now at Roveredo, where a marked distinction of language begins;
hitherto, it has fluctuated between German and Italian. I have now, for
the first time, had a thoroughly Italian postilion, the inn-keeper does
not speak a word of German, and I must put my own linguistic powers to
the test. How delighted I am that the language I have always most loved
now becomes living--the language of common usage.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Torbole, 12th September (after dinner)._

How much do I wish that my friends were with me for a moment to enjoy
the prospect, which now lies before my eyes.

I might have been in Verona this evening but a magnificent natural
phenomenon was in my vicinity--Lake Garda, a splendid spectacle, which
I did not want to miss, and now I am nobly rewarded for taking this
circuitous route. After 5 o'clock I started from Roveredo, up a side
valley, which still pours its waters into the Etsch. After ascending
this, you come to an immense rocky bar, which you must cross in
descending to the lake. Here appeared the finest calcareous rocks for
pictorial study. On descending you come to a little village on the
northern end of the lake, with a little port, or rather landing-place,
which is called Torbole. On my way upwards I was constantly accompanied
by fig-trees, and, descending into the rocky atmosphere, I found the
first olive-tree full of fruit. Here also, for the first time, I found
as a common fruit those little white figs, which the Countess Lanthieri
had promised me.

A door opens from the chamber in which I sit into the court-yard below.
Before this I have placed my table, and taken a rough sketch of the
prospect. The lake may be seen for its whole length, and it is only at
the end, towards the left, that it vanishes from our eyes. The shore,
which is inclosed on both sides by hill and mountain, shines with a
countless number of little hamlets.

After midnight the wind blows from north to south, and he who wishes
to go down the lake must travel at this time, for a few hours before
sunset the current of air changes, and moves northward. At this time,
the afternoon, it blows strongly against me, and pleasantly qualifies
the burning heat of the sun. Volkmann teaches me that this lake was
formerly called "Benacus," and quotes from Virgil a line in which it
was mentioned:

    "Fluctibus et fremiter resonans, Benace, marino."

This is the first Latin verse, the subject of which ever stood visibly
before me, and now, in the present moment, when the wind is blowing
stronger and stronger, and the lake casts loftier billows against the
little harbour, it is just as true as it was hundreds of years ago.
Much, indeed, has changed, but the wind still roars about the lake, the
aspect of which gains even greater glory from a line of Virgil's.

The above was written in a latitude of 45° 50'.

       *       *       *       *       *

I went out for a walk in the cool of the evening, and now I really
find myself in a new country, surrounded by objects entirely strange.
The people lead a careless, sauntering life. In the first place, the
doors are without locks, but the host assured me that I might be quite
at ease, even though all I had about me consisted of diamonds. In
the second place, the windows are covered with oiled paper instead
of glass. In the third place, an extremely necessary convenience is
wanting, so that one comes pretty close to a state of nature. When
I asked the waiter for a certain place, he pointed down into the
court-yard: "Qui, abasso puo servirsi!" "Dove?" asked I. "Da per tutto,
dove vuol," was the friendly reply. The greatest carelessness is
visible everywhere, but still there is life and bustle enough. During
the whole day there is a constant chattering and shrieking of the
female neighbors, all have something to do at the same time. I have not
yet seen an idle woman.

[Sidenote: Lago Di Garda.]

The host, with Italian emphasis, assured me, that he felt great
pleasure in being able to serve me with the finest trout. They are
taken near Torbole, where the stream flows down from the mountains, and
the fish seeks a passage upwards. The Emperor farms this fishery for
10,000 gulden. The fish, which are large, often weighing fifty pounds,
and spotted over the whole body to the head, are not trout, properly
so called. The flavour, which is between that of trout and salmon, is
delicate and excellent.

But my real delight is in the fruit.--in the figs, and in the pears,
which must, indeed, be excellent, where citrons are already growing.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Evening of September_ 13.

At 3 o'clock this morning I started from Torbole, with a couple of
rowers. At first the wind was so favorable that we put up a sail.
The morning was cloudy but tine, and perfectly calm at day-break. We
passed Limona, the mountain-gardens of which, laid out terrace-fashion,
and planted with citron-trees, have a neat and rich appearance. The
whole garden consists of rows of square white pillars placed at some
distance from each other, and rising up the mountain in steps. On these
pillars strong beams are laid, that the trees planted between them may
be sheltered in the winter. The view of these pleasant objects was
favored by a slow passage, and we had already passed Malsesine when the
wind suddenly changed, took the direction usual in the day-time, and
blew towards the north. Rowing was of little use against this superior
power, and, therefore, we were forced to land in the harbour of
Malsesine. This is the first Venetian spot on the eastern side of the
lake. When one has to do with water we cannot say, "I will be at this
or that particular place to-day." I will make my stay here as useful as
I can, especially by making a drawing of the castle, which lies close
to the water, and is a beautiful object. As I passed along I took a
sketch of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Sept. 11th._

The wind, which blew against me yesterday, and drove me into the
harbour of Malsesine, was the cause of a perilous adventure, which I
got over with good humour, and the remembrance of which I still find
amusing. According to my plan, I went early in the morning into the
old castle, which having neither gate nor guard, is accessible to
everybody. Entering the court-yard, I seated myself opposite to the
old tower, which is built on and among the rocks. Here I had selected
a very convenient spot for drawing;--a carved stone seat in the wall,
near a closed door, raised some three or four feet high, such as we
also find in the old buildings in our own country.

[Sidenote: An incident at Malsesine.]

I had not sat long before several persons entered the yard, and walked
backwards and forwards, looking at me. The multitude increased, and at
last so stood as completely to surround me. I remarked that my drawing
had excited attention; however, I did not allow myself to be disturbed,
but quietly continued my occupation. At last a man, not of the most
prepossessing appearance, came up to me, and asked me what I was about.
I replied that I was copying the old tower, that I might have some
remembrance of Malsesine. He said that this was not allowed, and that I
must leave off. As he said this in the common Venetian dialect, so that
I understood him with difficulty, I answered, that I did not understand
him at all. With true Italian coolness he took hold of my paper, and
tore it, at the same time letting it remain on the pasteboard. Here
I observed an air of dissatisfaction among the by-standers; an old
woman in particular said that it was not right, but that the podestà
ought to be called, who was the best judge of such matters. I stood
upright on the steps, having my back against the door, and surveyed the
assembly, which was continually increasing. The fixed eager glances,
the good humoured expression of most of the faces, and all the other
characteristics of a foreign mob, made the most amusing impression upon
me. I fancied that I could see before me the chorus of birds, which, as
Treufreund, I had often laughed at, in the Ettersburg theatre. This put
me in excellent humour, and when the podestà came up with his actuary,
I greeted him in an open manner, and when he asked me why I was drawing
the fortification, modestly replied, that I did not look upon that
wall as a fortification. I called the attention of him and the people
to the decay of the towers and walls, and to the generally defenceless
position of the place, assuring him that I thought I only saw and drew
a ruin.

I was answered thus: "If it was only a ruin, what could there
be remarkable about it?" As I wished to gain time and favour, I
replied very circumstantially, that they must be well aware how
many travellers visited Italy, for the sake of the ruins only, that
Rome, the metropolis of the world, having suffered the depredations
of barbarians, was now full of ruins, which had been drawn hundreds
of times, and that all the works of antiquity were not in such good
preservation as the amphitheatre at Verona, which I hoped soon to see.

The podestà, who stood before me, though in a less elevated position,
was a tall man, not exactly thin, of about thirty years of age. The
flat features of his spiritless face perfectly accorded with the slow
constrained manner, in which he put his questions. Even the actuary,
a sharp little fellow, seemed as if he did not know what to make of a
case so new, and so unexpected. I said a great deal of the same sort;
the people seemed to take my remarks good naturedly, and on turning
towards some kindly female faces, I thought I could read assent and
approval.

When, however, I mentioned the amphitheatre at Verona, which in this
country, is called the "Arena," the actuary, who had in the meanwhile
collected himself, replied, that this was all very well, because the
edifice in question was a Roman building, famed throughout the world.
In these towers, however, there was nothing remarkable, excepting that
they marked the boundary between the Venetian domain and Austrian
Empire, and therefore _espionage_ could not be allowed. I answered
by explaining at some length, that not only the Great and Roman
antiquities, but also those of the Middle-Ages were worth attention.
They could not be blamed, I granted, if, having been accustomed to
this building from their youth upwards, they could not discern in it
so many picturesque beauties as I did. Fortunately the morning sun,
shed the most beautiful lustre on the tower, rocks, and walls, and I
began to describe the scene with enthusiasm. My audience, however, had
these much lauded objects behind them, and as they did not wish to turn
altogether away from me, they all at once twisted their heads, like the
birds, which we call "wry necks" (Wendehälse), that they might see with
their eyes, what I had been lauding to their ears. Even the podestà
turned round towards the picture I had been describing, though with
more dignity than the rest. This scene appeared to me so ridiculous
that my good humour increased, and I spared them nothing--least of all,
the ivy, which had been suffered for ages to adorn the rocks and walls.

The actuary retorted, that this was all very good, but the Emperor
Joseph was a troublesome gentleman, who certainly entertained many
evil designs against Venice; and I might probably have been one of his
subjects, appointed by him, to act as a spy on the borders.

"Far from belonging to the Emperor," I replied, "I can boast, as well
as you, that I am a citizen of a republic, which also governs itself,
but which is not, indeed, to be compared for power and greatness to
the illustrious state of Venice, although in commercial activity, in
wealth, and in the wisdom of its rulers, it is inferior to no state in
Germany. I am a native of Frankfort-on-the-Main, a city, the name and
fame of which has doubtless reached you."

[Sidenote: An incident at Malsesine.]

"Of Frankfort-on-the-Main!" cried a pretty young woman, "then, Mr.
Podestà, you can at once see all about the foreigner, whom I look upon
as an honest man. Let Gregorio be called; he has resided there a long
time, and will be the best judge of the matter."

The kindly faces had already increased around me, the first adversary
had vanished, and when Gregorio came to the spot, the whole affair
took a decided turn in my favor. He was a man upwards of fifty, with
one of those well-known Italian faces. He spoke and conducted himself
like one, who feels that something foreign is not foreign to him, and
told me at once that he had seen service in Bolongari's house, and
would be delighted to hear from me something about this family and the
city in general, which had left a pleasant impression in his memory.
Fortunately his residence at Frankfort had been during my younger
years, and I had the double advantage of being able to say exactly
how matters stood in his time, and what alteration had taken place
afterwards. I told him about all the Italian families, none of whom had
remained unknown to me. With many particulars he was highly delighted,
as, for instance, with the fact that Herr Alessina had celebrated his
"golden wedding,"[2] in the year 1774, and that a medal had been struck
on the occasion, which was in my possession. He remembered that the
wife of this wealthy merchant was by birth a Brentano. I could also
tell him something about the children and grand-children of these
families, how they had grown up, and had been provided for and married,
and had multiplied themselves in their descendants.

When I had given the most accurate information about almost everything
which he asked, his features alternately expressed cheerfulness and
solemnity. He was pleased and touched, while the people cheered up more
and more, and could not hear too much of our conversation, of which--it
must be confessed--he was obliged to translate a part into their own
dialect.

At last he said: "Podestà, I am convinced that this is a good,
accomplished, and well-educated gentleman, who is travelling about
to acquire instruction. Let him depart in a friendly manner, that he
may speak well of us to his fellow-countrymen, and induce them to
visit Malsesine, the beautiful situation of which is well worthy the
admiration of foreigners. I gave additional force to these friendly
words by praising the country, the situation, and the inhabitants, not
forgetting to mention the magistrates as wise and prudent personages."

This was well received, and I had permission to visit the place at
pleasure, in company with Master Gregorio. The landlord, with whom I
had put up, now joined us, and was delighted at the prospect of the
foreign guests, who would crowd upon him, when once the advantages
of Malsesine were properly known. With the most lively curiosity he
examined my various articles of dress, but especially envied me the
possession of a little pistol, which slipped conveniently into the
pocket. He congratulated those who could carry such pretty weapons,
this being forbidden in his country under the severest penalties. This
friendly but obtrusive personage I sometimes interrupted to thank my
deliverer. "Do not thank me," said honest Gregorio, "for you owe me
nothing. If the Podestà had understood his business, and the Actuary
had not been the most selfish man in the world, you would not have got
off so easily. The former was still more puzzled than you, and the
latter would have pocketed nothing by your arrest, the information,
and your removal to Verona. This he rapidly thought over, and you were
already free, before our dialogue was ended."

Towards the evening the good man took me into his vineyard, which was
very well situated, down along the lake. We were accompanied by his
son, a lad of fifteen, who was forced to climb the trees, and pluck me
the best fruit, while the old man looked out for the ripest grapes.

While thus placed between these two kindhearted people, both strange
to the world, alone, as it were, in the deep solitude of the earth, I
felt, in the most lively manner, as I reflected on the day's adventure,
what a whimsical being Man is--how the very thing, which in company
he might enjoy with ease and security, is often rendered troublesome
and dangerous, from his notion, that he can appropriate to himself the
world and its contents after his own peculiar fashion.

Towards midnight my host accompanied me to the barque, carrying the
basket of fruit with which Gregorio had presented me, and thus, with
a favorable wind, I left the shore, which had promised to become a
Læstrygonicum shore to me.


[Footnote 2: The fiftieth anniversary of a wedding-day is so called in
Germany. Trans.]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Lago Di Garda.]

And now for my expedition on the lake. It ended happily, after the
noble aspect of the water, and of the adjacent shore of Brescia had
refreshed my very heart. On the western side, where the mountains cease
to be perpendicular, and near the lake, the land becomes more flat,
Garignano, Bojaco, Cecina, Toscolan, Maderno, Verdom, and Salo, stand
all in a row, and occupy a reach of about a league and a half; most of
them being built in long streets. No words can express the beauty of
this richly inhabited spot. At 10 o'clock in the morning I landed at
Bartolino, placed my luggage on one mule and myself on another. The
road went now over a ridge, which separates the valley of the Etsch
from the hollow of the lake. The primæval waters seem to have driven
against each other from both sides, in immense currents, and to have
raised this colossal dam of gravel. A fertile soil was deposited upon
the gravel at a quieter period, but the labourer is constantly annoyed
by the appearance of the stones on the surface. Every effort is made to
get rid of them, they are piled in rows and layers one on another, and
thus a sort of thick wall is formed along the path. The mulberry-trees,
from a want of moisture, have a dismal appearance at this elevation.
Springs there are none. From time to time puddles of collected
rain-water may be found, with which the mules and even their drivers
quench their thirst. Some wheels are placed on the river beneath, to
water, at pleasure, those plantations that have a lower situation.

The magnificence of the new country, which opens on you as you descend,
surpasses description. It is a garden a mile long and broad, which lies
quite flat at the foot of tall mountains and steep rocks, and is as
neatly laid out as possible. By this way, about 1 o'clock on the 10th
of September, I reached Verona, where I first write this, finish, and
put together the first part of my diary, and indulge in the pleasing
hope of seeing the amphitheatre in the evening.

Concerning the weather of these days I have to make the following
statement:--The night from the 9th to the 10th was alternately clear
and cloudy, the moon had always a halo round it. Towards 5 o'clock
in the morning all the sky was overcast with gray, not heavy clouds,
which vanished with the advance of day. The more I descended the finer
was the weather. As at Botzen the great mass of the mountains took a
northerly situation, the air displayed quite another quality. From
the different grounds in the landscape, which were separated from
each other in the most picturesque manner, by a tint more or less
blue, it might be seen, that the atmosphere was full of vapors equally
distributed, which it was able to sustain, and which, therefore,
neither fell in the shape of dew, nor were collected in the form of
clouds. As I descended further I could plainly observe, that all the
exhalations from the Botzen valley, and all the streaks of cloud which
ascended from the more southern mountains, moved towards the higher
northern regions, which they did not cover, but veiled with a kind
of yellow fog. In the remotest distance, over the mountains, I could
observe what is called a "water-gull." To the south of Botzen they have
had the finest weather all the summer, only a little _water_ (they say
_aqua_ to denote a light rain), from time to time, and then a return
of sunshine. Yesterday a few drops occasionally fell, and the sun
throughout continued shining. They have not had so good a year for a
long while; everything turns out well; the bad weather they have sent
to us.

I mention but slightly the mountains and the species of stone, since
Ferber's travels to Italy, and Hacquet's journey along the Alps,
give sufficient information respecting this district. A quarter of
a league from the Brenner, there is a marble quarry, which I passed
at twilight. It may, nay, must lie upon mica-slate as on the other
side. This I found near Colman, just as it dawned; lower down there
was an appearance of porphyry. The rocks were so magnificent, and
the heaps were so conveniently broken up along the highway, that a
"Voigt" cabinet might have been made and packed up at once. Without
any trouble of that kind I can take a piece, if it is only to accustom
my eyes and my curiosity to a small quantity. A little below Colman,
I found some porphyry, which splits into regular plates, and between
Brandrol and Neumark some of a similar kind, in which, however, the
laminæ separated in pillars. Ferber considered them to be volcanic
productions, but that was fourteen years ago, when all the world had
its head on fire. Even Hacquet ridicules the notion.

[Sidenote: From Brenner to Verona.]

Of the people I can say but little, and that is not very favorable.
On my descent from the Brenner, I discovered, as soon as day came,
a decided change of form, and was particularly displeased by the
pale brownish complexion of the women. Their features indicated
wretchedness, the children looked equally miserable;--the men somewhat
better. I imagine that the cause of this sickly condition may be found
in the frequent consumption of Indian corn and buckwheat. Both the
former, which they also call "Yellow Blende," and the latter, which is
called "Black Blende," is ground, made into a thick pap with water,
and thus eaten. The Germans on this side, pull out the dough, and fry
it in butter. The Italian Tyrolese, on the contrary, eat it just as it
is, often with scrapings of cheese, and do not taste meat throughout
the year. This necessarily glues up and stops the alimentary channels,
especially with the women and children, and their cachectic complexion
is an indication of the malady. They also eat fruit and green beans,
which they boil down in water, and mix with oil and garlic. I asked
if there were no rich peasants. "Yes, indeed," was the reply. "Don't
they indulge themselves at all? don't they eat anything better?" "No,
they are used to it." "What do they do with their money then? how do
they lay it out?" "Oh, they have their ladies, who relieve them of
that." This is the sum and substance of a conversation with mine host's
daughter at Botzen.

I also learned from her, that the vine-tillers were the worst off,
although they appeared to be the most opulent, for they were in the
hands of commercial towns-people, who advanced them enough to support
life in the bad seasons, and in winter took their wine at a low price.
However, it is the same thing everywhere.

My opinion concerning the food is confirmed by the fact, that the women
who inhabit the towns appear better and better. They have pretty plump
girlish faces, the body is somewhat too short in proportion to the
stoutness, and the size of the head, but sometimes the countenances
have a most agreable expression. The men we already know through the
wandering Tyrolese. In the country their appearance is less fresh than
that of the women, perhaps because the latter have more bodily labour,
and are more in motion, while the former sit at home as traders and
workmen. By the Garda Lake I found the people very brown, without the
slightest tinge of red in their cheeks; however they did not look
unhealthy, but quite fresh and comfortable. Probably the burning
sunbeams, to which they are exposed at the foot of their mountains, are
the cause of their complexion.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM VERONA TO VENICE.

_Verona, Sept. 16th._

Well then, the amphitheatre is the first important monument of the old
times that I have seen--and how well it is preserved! When I entered,
and still more when I walked round the edge of it at the top, it seemed
strange to me, that I saw something great, and yet, properly speaking,
saw nothing. Besides I do not like to see it empty, I should like to
see it full of people, just as, in modern times, it was filled up in
honour of Joseph I. and Pius VI. The Emperor, although his eye was
accustomed to human masses, must have been astonished. But it was only
in the earliest times, that it produced its full effect, when the
people was more a people than it is now. For, properly speaking, such
an amphitheatre is constructed to give the people an imposing view of
itself,--to cajole itself.

When anything worth seeing occurs on the level ground, and any one runs
to the spot, the hindermost try by every means to raise themselves
above the foremost; they get upon benches, roll casks, bring up
vehicles, lay planks in every direction, occupy the neighbouring
heights, and a crater is formed in no time.

If the spectacle occur frequently on the same spot, light scaffoldings
are built for those who are able to pay, and the rest of the multitude
must get on as it can. Here the problem of the architect is to satisfy
this general want. By means of his art he prepares such a crater,
making it as simple as possible, that the people itself may constitute
the decoration. When the populace saw itself so assembled, it must
have been astonished at the sight, for whereas it was only accustomed
to see itself running about in confusion, or to find itself crowded
together without particular rule or order, so must this many-headed,
many-minded, wandering animal now see itself combined into a noble
body, made into a definite unity, bound and secured into a mass, and
animated as one form by one mind. The simplicity of the oval is most
pleasingly obvious to every eye, and every head serves as a measure
to show the vastness of the whole. Now we see it empty, we have no
standard, and do not know whether it is large or small.

[Sidenote: Verona.]

The Veronese deserve commendation for the high preservation in which
this edifice is kept. It is built of a reddish marble, which has been
affected by the atmosphere, and hence the steps which have been eaten,
are continually restored, and look almost all new. An inscription makes
mention of one Hieronymus Maurigenus, and of the incredible industry,
which he has expended on this monument. Of the outer wall only a piece
remains, and I doubt whether it was ever quite finished. The lower
arches, which adjoin the large square, called "Il Bra," are let out
to workmen, and the reanimation of these arcades produces a cheerful
appearance.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Verona, Sept._ 16.

The most beautiful gate, which, however, always remains closed, is
called "Porta stupa," or "del Pallio." As a gate, and considering the
great distance from which it is first seen, it is not well conceived,
and it is not till we come near it, that we recognise the beauty of the
structure.

All sorts of reasons are given to account for its being closed. I have,
however, a conjecture of my own. It was manifestly the intention of
the artist to cause a new _Corso_ to be laid out from this gate, for
the situation, or the present street, is completely wrong. On the left
side there is nothing but barracks; and the line at right angles from
the middle of the gate leads to a convent of nuns, which must certainly
have come down. This was presently perceived, and besides the rich and
higher classes might not have liked to settle in the remote quarter.
The artist perhaps died, and therefore the door was closed, and so an
end was put to the affair.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Verona, Sept._ 16.

The portico of the theatre, consisting of six large Ionic columns,
looks handsome enough. So much the more puny is the appearance of the
Marchese di Maffei's bust, which as large as life, and in a great
wig, stands over the door, and in front of a painted niche, which is
supported by two Corinthian columns. The position is honorable, but to
be in some degree proportionate to the magnitude and solidity of the
columns, the bust should have been colossal. But now placed as it is on
a corbel, it has a mean appearance, and is by no means in harmony with
the whole.

The gallery, which incloses the fore-court, is also small, and the
channelled Doric dwarfs have a mean appearance by the side of the
smooth Ionic giants. But we pardon this discrepancy on account of
the fine institution, which has been founded among the columns. Here
is kept a number of antiquities, which have mostly been dug up in
and about Verona. Something, they say, has even been found in the
Amphitheatre. There are Etruscan, Greek, and Roman specimens, down to
the latest times, and some even of more modern date. The bas-reliefs
are inserted in the walls, and provided with the numbers, which Maffei
gave them, when he described them in his work: "_Verona illustrata._"
There are altars, fragments of columns, and other relics of the sort;
an admirable tripod of white marble, upon which there are genii
occupied with the attributes of the gods. Raphael has imitated and
improved this kind of thing in the scrolls of the Farnesina.

The wind which blows from the graves of the ancients, comes fragrantly
over hills of roses. The tombs give touching evidences of a genuine
feeling, and always bring life back to us. Here is a man, by the side
of his wife, who peeps out of a niche, as if it were a window. Here
are father and mother, with their son between them, eyeing each other
as naturally as possible. Here a couple are grasping each other's
hands. Here a father, resting on his couch, seems to be amused by
his family. The immediate proximity of these stones was to me highly
touching. They belong to a later school of art, but are simple,
natural, and generally pleasing. Here a man in armour is on his knees
in expectation of a joyful resurrection. With more or less of talent
the artist has produced the mere simple presence of the persons, and
has thus given a permanent continuation to their existence. They do not
fold their hands, they do not look towards heaven, but they are here
below just what they were and just what they are. They stand together,
take interest in each other, love one another, and this is charmingly
expressed on the stone, though with a certain want of technical skill.
A marble pillar, very richly adorned, gave me more new ideas.

[Sidenote: Verona.]

Laudable as this institution is, we can plainly perceive that the
noble spirit of preservation, by which it was founded, is no longer
continued. The valuable tripod will soon be ruined, placed as it is
in the open air, and exposed to the weather towards the west. This
treasure might easily be preserved in a wooden case.

The palace of the Proveditore, which is begun, might have afforded
a fine specimen of architecture, if it had been finished. Generally
speaking, the _nobili_ build a great deal, but unfortunately every one
builds on the site of his former residence, and often, therefore, in
narrow lanes. Thus, for instance, a magnificent façade to a seminary is
now building in an alley of tire remotest suburb.

       *       *       *       *       *

While, with a guide, whom I had accidentally picked up, I passed
before the great solemn gate of a singular building, he asked me
good-humouredly, whether I should not like to step into the court for
a while. It was the palace of justice, and the court, on account of
the height of the building, looked only like an enormous wall. Here,
he told me, all the criminals and suspicious persons are confined.
I looked around, and saw that round all the stories there were open
passages' fitted with iron balustrades, which passed by numerous doors.
The prisoner, as he stepped out of his dungeon to be led to trial,
stood in the open air, and was exposed to the gaze of all passers, and
because there were several trial-rooms, the chains were rattling, now
over this, now over that passage, in every story. It was a hateful
sight, and I do not deny that the good humour, with which I had
dispatched my "Birds," might here have come into a strait.

       *       *       *       *       *

I walked at sunset upon the margin of the crater-like amphitheatre, and
enjoyed the most splendid prospect over the town and the surrounding
country. I was quite alone, and multitudes of people were passing below
me on the hard stones of the Bra; men of all ranks, and women of the
middle-ranks were walking. The latter in their black outer garments
look, in this bird's-eye view, like so many mummies.

The _Zendale_ and the _Veste_, which serves this class in the place of
an entire wardrobe, is a costume completely fitted for a people that
does not care much for cleanliness, and yet always likes to appear in
public, sometimes at church, sometimes on the promenade. The _Veste_ is
a gown of black taffeta, which is thrown over other gowns. If the lady
has a clean white one beneath, she contrives to lift up the black one
on one side. This is fastened on so, as to cut the waist, and to cover
the lappets of a corset, which may be of any colour. The _Zendale_ is
a large hood with long ears; the hood itself is kept high above the
head by a wire-frame, while the ears are fastened round the body like a
scarf, so that the ends fall down behind.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Verona, Sept._ 16.

When I again left the Arena to-day, I came to a modern public
spectacle, about a thousand paces from the spot. Four noble Veronese
were playing ball against four people of Vicenza. This pastime is
carried on among the Veronese themselves all the year round, about two
hours before night. On this occasion there was a far larger concourse
of people than usual, on account of the foreign adversaries. The
spectators seem to have amounted to four or five thousand. I did not
see women of any rank.

When, a little while ago, I spoke of the necessities of the multitude
in such a case, I described the natural accidental amphitheatre as
arising just in the manner, in which I saw the people raised one over
another on this occasion. Even at a distance I could hear the lively
clapping of hands, which accompanied every important stroke. The game
is played as follows: Two boards, slightly inclined, are placed at a
convenient distance from each other. He who strikes off the ball stands
at the higher end, his right hand is armed with a broad wooden ring,
set with spikes. While another of his party throws the ball to him, he
runs down to meet it, and thus increases the force of the blow with
which he strikes it. The adversaries try to beat it back, and thus it
goes backwards and forwards till, at last, it remains on the ground.
The most beautiful attitudes, worthy of being imitated in marble, are
thus produced. As there are none but well-grown active young people, in
a short, close, white dress, the parties are only distinguished by a
yellow mark. Particularly beautiful is the attitude into which the man
on the eminence falls, when he runs down the inclined plain, and raises
his arm to strike the ball;--it approaches that of the Borghesian
gladiator.

It seemed strange to me that they carry on this exercise by an old
lime-wall, without the slightest convenience for spectators; why is it
not done in the amphitheatre, where there would be such ample room?

       *       *       *       *       *

_Verona, September_ 17.

What I have seen of pictures I will but briefly touch upon, and add
some remarks. I do not make this extraordinary tour for the sake of
deceiving myself, but to become acquainted with myself by means of
these objects. I therefore honestly confess that of the painter's
art--of his manipulation, I understand but little. My attention,
and observation, can only be directed to the practical part, to the
subject, and the general treatment of it.

[Sidenote: Verona.]

S. Georgio is a gallery of good pictures, all altar-pieces, and all
remarkable, if not of equal value. But what subjects were the hapless
artists obliged to paint? And for whom? Perhaps a shower of manna
thirty feet long, and twenty feet high, with the miracle of the
loaves as a companion. What could be made of these subjects? Hungry
men falling on little grains, and a countless multitude of others,
to whom bread is handed. The artists have racked their invention
in order to get something striking out of such wretched subjects.
And yet, stimulated by the urgency of the case, genius has produced
some beautiful things. An artist, who had to paint S. Ursula with
the eleven thousand virgins, has got over the difficulty cleverly
enough. The saint stands in the foreground, as if she had conquered
the country. She is very noble, like an Amazonia's virgin, and without
any enticing charms; on the other hand, her troop is shown descending
from the ships, and moving in procession at a diminishing distance.
The Assumption of the Virgin, by Titian, in the dome, has become much
blackened, and it is a thought worthy of praise that, at the moment of
her apotheosis, she looks not towards heaven, but towards her friends
below.

In the Gherardini Gallery I found some very fine things by Orbitto,
and for the first time became acquainted with this meritorious artist.
At a distance we only hear of the first artists, and then we are often
contented with names only; but when we draw nearer to this starry sky,
and the luminaries of the second and third magnitude also begin to
twinkle, each one coming forward and occupying his proper place in the
whole constellation, then the world becomes wide, and art becomes rich.
I must here commend the conception of one of the pictures. Sampson has
gone to sleep in the lap of Dalilah, and she has softly stretched her
hand over him to reach a pair of scissors, which lies near the lamp on
the table. The execution is admirable. In the Canopa Palace I observed
a Danäe.

The Bevilagua Palace contains the most valuable things. A picture
by Tintoretto, which is called a "Paradise," but which, in fact,
represents the Coronation of the Virgin Mary as Queen of Heaven, in the
presence of all the patriarchs, prophets, apostles, saints, angels,
&c., affords an opportunity for displaying all the riches of the most
felicitous genius. To admire and enjoy all that care of manipulation,
that spirit and variety of expression, it is necessary to possess the
picture, and to have it before one all one's life. The painter's work
is carried on ad infinitum,; even the farthest angels' heads, which are
vanishing in the halo, preserve something of character. The largest
figures may be about a foot high; Mary, and the Christ who is crowning
her, about four inches. Eve is, however, the finest woman in the
picture; a little voluptuous, as from time immemorial.

A couple of portraits by Paul Veronese have only increased my
veneration for that artist. The collection of antiquities is very
fine; there is a son of Niobe extended in death, which is highly
valuable; and the busts, including an Augustus with the civic crown, a
Caligula, and others, are mostly of great interest, notwithstanding the
restoration of the noses.

It lies in my nature to admire, willingly and joyfully, all that is
great and beautiful, and the cultivation of this talent, day after day,
hour after hour, by the inspection of such beautiful objects, produces
the happiest feelings.

[Sidenote: Verona.]

In a land, where we enjoy the days but take especial delight in the
evenings, the time of nightfall is highly important. For now work
ceases; those who have gone out walking turn back; the father wishes
to have his daughter home again; the day has an end. What the day is
we Cimmerians hardly know. In our eternal mist and fog it is the same
thing to us, whether it be day or night, for how much time can we
really pass and enjoy in the open air? Now, when night sets in, the
day, which consisted of a morning and an evening, is decidedly past,
four and twenty hours are gone, the bells ring, the rosary is taken in
hand, and the maid, entering the chamber with the lighted lamp, says,
"felicissima notte." This epoch varies with every season, and a man who
lives here in actual life cannot go wrong, because all the enjoyments
of his existence are regulated not by the nominal hour, but by the time
of day. If the people were forced to use a German clock they would be
perplexed, for their own is intimately connected with their nature.
About an hour and a half, or an hour before midnight, the nobility
begin to ride out. They proceed to the Piazza della Bra, along the
long, broad street to the Porta Nuova out at the gate, and along the
city, and when night sets in, they all return home. Sometimes they go
to the churches to say their Ave Maria della sera: sometimes they keep
on the Bra, where the cavaliers step up to the coaches and converse for
a while with the ladies. The foot passengers remain till a late hour of
night, but I have never stopped till the last. To-day just enough rain
had fallen to lay the dust, and the spectacle was most cheerful and
animated.

That I may accommodate myself the better to the custom of the country
I have devised a plan for mastering more easily the Italian method of
reckoning the hours. The accompanying diagram may give an idea of it.
The inner circle denotes our four and twenty hours, from midnight to
midnight, divided into twice twelve, as we reckon, and as our clocks
indicate. The middle circle shows how the clocks strike at the present
season, namely, as much as twelve twice in the twenty-four hours, but
in such a way that it strikes one, when it strikes eight with us, and
so on till the number twelve is complete. At eight o'clock in the
morning according to our clock it again strikes one, and so on. Finally
the outer circle shows how the four and twenty hours are reckoned in
actual life. For example, I hear seven o'clock striking in the night,
and know that midnight is at five o'clock; I therefore deduct the
latter number from the former, and thus have two hours after midnight.
If I hear seven o'clock strike in the day-time, and know that noon is
at five, I proceed in the same way, and thus have two in the afternoon.
But if I wish to express the hour according to the fashion of this
country, I must know that noon is seventeen o'clock; I add the two, and
get nineteen o'clock. When this method is heard and thought of for the
first time, it seems extremely confused and difficult to manage, but we
soon grow accustomed to it and find the occupation amusing. The people
themselves take delight in this perpetual calculation, just as children
are pleased with easily surmounted difficulties. Indeed they always
have their fingers in the air, make any calculation in their heads,
and like to occupy themselves with figures. Besides to the inhabitant
of the country the matter is so much the easier, as he really does not
trouble himself about noon and midnight, and does not, like the foreign
resident, compare two clocks with each other. They only count from the
evening the hours, as they strike, and in the day-time they add the
number to the varying number of noon, with which they are acquainted.
The rest is explained by the remarks appended to the diagram:--

    COMPARATIVE TABLE
    of
    GERMAN AND ITALIAN TIME,

    WITH THE HOURS OF THE ITALIAN SUN-DIAL FOR THE LATTER
    HALF OF SEPTEMBER.

    MIDDAY.

    MIDNIGHT.

    The night lengthens half an hour
    every fortnight.

    Month. Day.    Time of night   Midnight
                   as shewn by     consequently
                   German clocks.  falls about.

    August   1          8½             3½
    --      15          8              4
    Sept.    1          7½             4½
    --      15          7              5
    October  1          6½             5½
    --      15          6              6
    Nov.     1          5½             6½
    --      15          5              7

    From this date the time remains
    constant and it is:--

                       NIGHT.        MIDNIGHT.
    Dec.
                        5              7
    Jan.

    The day lengthens half an hour
    every fortnight,
                    Time of night    Midnight
    Month.  Day.    as shewn by     consequently
                    German clocks   falls about.
    Febr.    1           5½             6½
    --      15           6              6
    March    1           6½             5½
    --      15           7              5
    April    1           7½             4½
    --      15           8              4
    May      1           8½             3
    --      15           9              3

    From this date the time remains
    constant and it is:--

                       NIGHT.        MIDNIGHT.
    June
                         9              3
    July

_Verona, Sept._ 17.

The people here jostle one another actively enough; the narrow streets,
where shops and workmen's stalls are thickly crowded together, have a
particularly cheerful look. There is no such thing as a door in front
of the shop or workroom; the whole breadth of the house is open, and
one may see all that passes in the interior. Half-way out into the
path, the tailors are sewing; and the cobblers are pulling and rapping;
indeed the work-stalls make a part of the street. In the evening, when
the lights are burning, the appearance is most lively.

The squares are very full on market days; there are fruit and
vegetables without number, and garlic and onions to the heart's
desire. Then again throughout the day there is a ceaseless screaming,
bantering, singing, squalling, huzzaing, and laughing. The mildness
of the air, and the cheapness of the food, make subsistence easy.
Everything possible is done in the open air.

At night singing and all sorts of noises begin. The ballad of
"_Marlbrook_" is heard in every street;--then comes a dulcimer, then a
violin. They try to imitate all the birds with a pipe. The strangest
sounds are heard on every side. A mild climate can give this exquisite
enjoyment of mere existence, even to poverty, and the very shadow of
the people seems respectable.

The want of cleanliness and convenience, which so much strikes us in
the houses, arises from the following cause:--the inhabitants are
always out of doors, and in their light-heartedness think of nothing.
With the people all goes right, even the middle-class man just lives on
from day to day, while the rich and genteel shut themselves up in their
dwellings, which are not so habitable as in the north. Society is found
in the open streets. Fore-courts and colonnades are all soiled with
filth, for things are done in the most _natural_ manner. The people
always feel their way before them. The rich man may be rich, and build
his palaces; and the _nobile_ may rule, but if he makes a colonnade or
a fore-court, the people will make use of it for their own occasions,
and have no more urgent wish than to get rid as soon as possible, of
that which they have taken as often as possible. If a person cannot
bear this, he must not play the great gentleman, that is to say, he
must act as if a part of his dwelling belonged to the public. He may
shut his door, and all will be right. But in open buildings the people
are not to be debarred of their privileges, and this, throughout Italy,
is a nuisance to the foreigner.

To-day I remarked in several streets of the town, the customs and
manners of the middle-classes especially, who appear very numerous and
busy. They swing their arms as they walk. Persons of a high rank, who
on certain occasions wear a sword, swing only one arm, being accustomed
to hold the left arm still.

Although the people are careless enough with respect to their own wants
and occupations, they have a keen eye for everything foreign. Thus in
the very first days, I observed that every one took notice of my boots,
because here they are too expensive an article of dress to wear even in
winter. Now I wear shoes and stockings nobody looks at me. Particularly
I noticed this morning, when all were running about with flowers,
vegetables, garlic, and other market-stuff, that a twig of cypress,
which I carried in my hand, did not escape them. Some green cones
hung upon it, and I held in the same hand some blooming caper-twigs.
Everybody, large and small, watched me closely, and seemed to entertain
some whimsical thought.

[Sidenote: Verona-Vicenza.]

I brought these twigs from the Giusti garden, which is finely situated,
and in which there are monstrous cypresses, all pointed up like spikes
into the air. The Taxus, which in northern gardening we find cut to a
sharp point, is probably an imitation of this splendid natural product.
A tree, the branches of which, the oldest as well as the youngest, are
striving to reach heaven,--a tree which will last its three hundred
years, is well worthy of veneration. Judging from the time when this
garden was laid out, these trees have already attained that advanced
age.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vicenza, Sept._ 19.

The way from Verona hither is very pleasant: we go north-eastwards
along the mountains, always keeping to the left the foremost mountains,
which consist of sand, lime, clay, and marl; the hills which they form,
are dotted with villages, castles, and houses. To the right extends the
broad plain, along which the road goes. The straight broad path, which
is in good preservation, goes through a fertile field; we look into
deep avenues of trees, up which the vines are trained to a considerable
height, and then drop down, like pendant branches. Here we can get an
admirable idea of festoons! The grapes are ripe, and are heavy on the
tendrils, which hang down long and trembling. The road is filled with
people of every class and occupation, and I was particularly pleased
by some carts, with low solid wheels, which, with teams of fine oxen,
carry the large vats, in which the grapes from the vineyards are put
and pressed. The drivers rode in them when they were empty, and the
whole was like a triumphal procession of Bacchanals. Between the ranks
of vines the ground is used for all sorts of grain, especially Indian
corn and millet (_Sörgel_).

As one goes towards Vicenza, the hills again rise from north to south
and enclose the plain; they are, it is said, volcanic. Vicenza lies at
their foot, or if you will, in a bosom which they form.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vicenza, Sept._ 19.

Though I have been here only a few hours, I have already run through
the town, and seen the Olympian theatre, and the buildings of Palladio.
A very pretty little book is published here, for the convenience of
foreigners, with copper-plates and some letter-press, that shows
knowledge of art. When once one stands in the presence of these works,
one immediately perceives their great value, for they are calculated
to fill the eye with their actual greatness and massiveness, and to
satisfy the mind by the beautiful harmony of their dimensions, not
only in abstract sketches, but with all the prominences and distances
of perspective. Therefore I say of Palladio: he was a man really and
intrinsically great, whose greatness was outwardly manifested. The
chief difficulty with which this man, like all modern architects, had
to struggle, was the suitable application of the orders of columns
to buildings for domestic or public use; for there is always a
contradiction in the combination of columns and walls. But with what
success has he not worked them up together! What an imposing effect has
the aspect of his edifices: at the sight of them one almost forgets
that he is attempting to reconcile us to a violation of the rules of
his art. There is, indeed, something divine about his designs, which
may be exactly compared to the creations of the great poet, who, out of
truth and falsehood elaborates something between both, and charms us
with its borrowed existence.

[Sidenote: Vicenza.]

The Olympic theatre is a theatre of the ancients, realized on a
small scale, and indescribably beautiful. However, compared with our
theatres, it reminds me of a genteel, rich, well-bred child, contrasted
with a shrewd man of the world, who, though he is neither so rich, nor
so genteel, and well-bred, knows better how to employ his resources.

If we contemplate, on the spot, the noble buildings which Palladio has
erected, and see how they are disfigured by the mean filthy necessities
of the people, how the plans of most of them exceeded the means of
those who undertook them, and how little these precious monuments of
one lofty mind are adapted to all else around, the thought occurs, that
it is just the same with everything else; for we receive but little
thanks from men, when we would elevate their internal aspirations, give
them a great idea of themselves, and make them feel the grandeur of a
really noble existence. But when one cajoles them, tells them tales,
and helping them on from day to day, makes them worse, then one is
just the man they like; and hence it is that modern times take delight
in so many absurdities. I do not say this to lower my friends, I only
say that they are so, and that people must not be astonished to find
everything just as it is.

How the Basilica of Palladio looks by the side of an old castellated
kind of a building, dotted all over with windows of different sizes
(whose removal, tower and all, the artist evidently contemplated),--it
is impossible to describe--and besides I must now, by a strange effort,
compress my own feelings, for, I too, alas! find here side by side both
what I seek and what I fly from.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Sept._ 20.

Yesterday we had the opera, which lasted till midnight, and I was
glad to get some rest. The _three Sultanesses_ and the _Rape of the
Seraglio_ have afforded several tatters, out of which the piece has
been patched up, with very little skill. The music is agreeable to the
ear, but is probably by an amateur; for not a single thought struck
me as being new. The _ballets_, on the other hand, were charming. The
principle pair of dancers executed an _Allemande_ to perfection.

The theatre is new, pleasant, beautiful, modestly magnificent, uniform
throughout, just as it ought to be in a provincial town. Every box
has hangings of the same color, and the one belonging to the _Capitan
Grande_, is only distinguished from the rest, by the fact that the
hangings are somewhat longer.

The _prima donna_, who is a great favorite of the whole people, is
tremendously applauded, on her entrance, and the "gods" are quite
obstreperous with their delight, when she does anything remarkably
well, which very often happens. Her manners are natural, she has a
pretty figure, a fine voice, a pleasing countenance, and, above all, a
really modest demeanour, while there might be more grace in the arms.
However, I am not what I was, I feel that I am spoiled, I am spoiled
for a "god."

       *       *       *       *       *

_Sept._ 21.

To-day I visited Dr. Tura. Five years ago he passionately devoted
himself to the study of plants, formed a _herbarium_ of the Italian
flora, and laid out a botanical garden under the superintendence of the
former bishop. However, all that has come to an end. Medical practice
drove away natural history, the _herbarium_ is eaten by worms, the
bishop is dead, and the botanic garden is again _rationally_ planted
with cabbages and garlic.

Dr. Tura is a very refined and good man. He told me his history with
frankness, purity of mind, and modesty, and altogether spoke in a very
definite and affable manner. At the same time he did not like to open
his cabinets, which perhaps were in no very presentable condition. Our
conversation soon came to a stand-still.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Sept._ 21. _Evening._

I called upon the old architect Scamozzi, who has published an edition
of _Palladio's buildings_, and is a diligent artist, passionately
devoted to his art. He gave me some directions, being delighted with
my sympathy. Among Palladio's buildings there is one, for which I
always had an especial predilection, and which is said to have been
his own residence When it is seen close, there is far more in it than
appears in a picture. I should have liked to draw it, and to illuminate
it with colors, to show the material and the age. It must not, however,
be imagined that the architect has built himself a palace. The house
is the most modest in the world, with only two windows, separated from
each other by a broad space, which would admit a third. If it were
imitated in a picture, which should exhibit the neighbouring houses at
the same time, the spectator would be pleased to observe how it has
been let in between them. Canaletto was the man who should have painted
it.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Vicenza.]

To-day I visited the splendid building which stands on a pleasant
elevation about half a league from the town, and is called the
"Rotonda." It is a quadrangular building, enclosing a circular hall,
lighted from the top. On all the four sides, you ascend a broad
flight of steps, and always come to a vestibule, which is formed
of six Corinthian columns. Probably the luxury of architecture was
never carried to so high a point. The space occupied by the steps and
vestibules is much larger than that occupied by the house itself;
for every one of the sides is as grand and pleasing as the front of
a temple. With respect to the inside it may be called habitable, but
not comfortable. The hall is of the finest proportions, and so are the
chambers; but they would hardly suffice for the actual wants of any
genteel family in a summer-residence. On the other hand it presents a
most beautiful appearance, as it is viewed on every side throughout
the district. The variety which is produced by the principal mass, as,
together with the projecting columns, it is gradually brought before
the eyes of the spectator who walks round it, is very great; and the
purpose of the owner, who wished to leave a large trust-estate, and at
the same time a visible monument of his wealth, is completely obtained.
And while the building appears in all its magnificence, when viewed
from any spot in the district, it also forms the point of view for a
most agreeable prospect. You may see the Bachiglione flowing along,
and taking vessels down from Verona to the Brenta, while you overlook
the extensive possessions which the Marquis Capra wished to preserve
undivided in his family. The inscriptions on the four gable-ends, which
together constitute one whole, are worthy to be noted down:

    Marcus Capra Gabrielis filius
        Qui ædes has
    Arctissimo primogenituræ gradui subjecit
        Una cum omnibus
    Censibus agris vallibus et collibus
        Citra viam magnam
    Memorise perpetuæ mandans hæc
        Dum sustinet ac abstinet.

The conclusion in particular is strange enough. A man who has at
command so much wealth and such a capacious will, still feels that he
must _bear_ and _forbear._ This can be learned at a less expense.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Sept._ 22.

This evening I was at a meeting held by the academy of the "Olympians."
It is mere play-work, but good in its way, and seems to keep up a
little spice and life among the people. There is the great hall by
Palladio's theatre, handsomely lighted up; the _Capitan_ and a portion
of the nobility are present, besides a public composed of educated
persons, and several of the clergy; the whole assembly amounting to
about five hundred.

The question proposed by the president for to-day's sitting was this:
"Which has been most serviceable to the fine arts, invention or
imitation?" This was a happy notion, for if the alternatives which are
involved in the question are kept duly apart, one may go on debating
for centuries. The academicians have gallantly availed themselves
of the occasion, and have produced all sorts of things in prose and
verse,--some very good.

Then there is the liveliest public. The audience cry _bravo_, and clap
their hands and laugh. What a thing it is to stand thus before one's
nation, and amuse them in person! We must set down our best productions
in black and white; every one squats down with them in a corner, and
scribbles at them as he can.

[Sidenote: Vicenza.]

It may be imagined that even on this occasion Palladio would be
continually appealed to, whether the discourse was in favour of
invention or imitation. At the end, which is always the right place for
a joke, one of the speakers hit on a happy thought, and said that the
others had already taken Palladio away from him, so that he, for his
part, would praise Franceschini, the great silk-manufacturer. He then
began to show the advantages which this enterprising man, and through
him the city of Vicenza, had derived from imitating the Lyonnese and
Florentine stuffs, and thence came to the conclusion that imitation
stands far above invention. This was done with so much humour, that
uninterrupted laughter was excited. Generally those who spoke in favor
of imitation obtained the most applause, for they said nothing but
what was adapted to the thoughts and capacities of the multitude.
Once the public, by a violent clapping of hands, gave its hearty
approval to a most clumsy sophism, when it had not felt many good--nay,
excellent things, that had been said in honour of invention. I am very
glad I have witnessed this scene, for it is highly gratifying to see
Palladio, after the lapse of so long a time, still honoured by his
fellow-citizens, as their polar-star and model.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Sept._ 22.

This morning I was at Tiene, which lies north towards the mountains,
where a new building has been erected after an old plan, of which
there may be a little to say. Thus do they here honour everything
that belongs to the good period, and have sense enough to raise a
new building on a plan which they have inherited. The _château_ is
excellently situated in a large plain, having behind it the calcareous
Alps, without any mountains intervening. A stream of living water flows
along the level causeway from each side of the building, towards those
who approach it, and waters the broad fields of rice through which one
passes.

I have now seen but two Italian cities, and for the first time, and
have spoken with but few persons, and yet I know my Italians pretty
well. They are like courtiers, who consider themselves the first
people in the world, and who, on the strength of certain advantages,
which cannot be denied them, can indulge with impunity in so
comfortable a thought. The Italians appear to me a right good people.
Only one must see the children and the common people as I see them now,
and can see them, while I am always open to them,--nay, always lay
myself open to them. What figures and faces there are!

It is especially to be commended in the Vicentians, that with them one
enjoys the privileges of a large city. Whatever a person does, they
do not stare at him, but if he addresses them, they are conversable
and pleasant, especially the women, who please me much. I do not
mean to find fault with the Veronese women; they are well made and
have a decided pupil, but they are, for the most part, pale, and the
_Zendal_ is to their disadvantage, because one looks for something
charming under the beautiful costume. I have found here some very
pretty creatures, especially some with black locks, who inspire me with
peculiar interest. There are also fairer beauties who, however, do not
please me so well.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Padua, Sept._ 26. _Evening._

In four hours I have this day come here from Vicenza, crammed luggage
and all into a little one-seated chaise, called a "_Sediola._"
Generally the journey is performed with ease in three hours and a
half, but as I wished to pass the delightful day-time in the open air,
I was glad that the _Vetturino_ fell short of his duty. The route
goes constantly southwards over the most fertile plains, and between
hedges and trees, without further prospect, until at last the beautiful
mountains, extending from the east towards the south, are seen on the
right hand. The abundance of the festoons of plants and fruit, which
hang over walls and hedges, and down the trees, is indescribable. The
roofs are loaded with gourds, and the strangest sort of cucumbers are
hanging from poles and trellises.

From the observatory I could take the clearest survey possible of
the fine situation of the town. Towards the north are the Tyrolese
mountains, covered with snow, and half hidden by clouds, and joined
by the Vicentian mountains on the north-west. Then towards the west
are the nearer mountains of Este, the shapes and recesses of which
are plainly to be seen. Towards the south-east is a verdant sea of
plants, without a trace of elevation, tree after tree, bush after
bush, plantation after plantation, while houses, villas, and churches,
dazzling with whiteness, peer out from among the green. Against the
horizon I plainly saw the tower of St. Mark's at Venice, with other
smaller towers.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Padua.]

_Padua, Sept._ 27.

I have at last obtained the works of Palladio, not indeed the original
edition, which I saw at Vicenza, where the cuts are in wood, but a
fac-simile in copper, published at the expense of an excellent man,
named Smith, who was formerly the English consul at Venice. We must
give the English this credit, that they have long known how to prize
what is good, and have a magnificent way of diffusing it.

On the occasion of this purchase I entered a book-shop, which in Italy
presents quite a peculiar appearance. Around it are arranged the books,
all stitched, and during the whole day good society may be found in
the shop, which is a lounge for all the secular clergy, nobility, and
artists who are in any way connected with literature. One asks for a
book, opens it, and amuses himself as one can. Thus I found a knot of
half a dozen all of whom became attentive to me, when I asked for the
works of Palladio. While the master of the shop looked for the book,
they commended it, and gave me information respecting the original and
the copy; they were well acquainted with the work itself and with the
merits of the author. Taking me for an architect they praised me for
having recourse to this master in preference to all the rest, saying
that he was of more practical utility than Vitruvius himself, since he
had thoroughly studied the ancients and antiquity, and had sought to
adapt the latter to the wants of our own times. I conversed for a long
time with these friendly men, learned something about the remarkable
objects in the city, and took my leave.

Where men have built churches to saints, a place may sometimes be
found in them, where monuments to intellectual men may be set up. The
bust of Cardinal Bembo stands between Ionic columns. It is a handsome
face, strongly drawn in, if I may use the expression, and with a
copious beard. The inscription runs thus: "Petri Bembi Card. imaginem
Hier. Guerinus Ismeni f. in publico ponendam curavit ut cujus ingenii
monumenta æterna sint, ejus corporis quoque memoria ne a posteritate
desideretur."

With all its dignity the University gave me the horrors, as a building.
I am glad that I had nothing to learn in it. One cannot imagine such a
narrow compass for a school, even though, as the student of a German
university, one may have suffered a great deal on the benches of the
Auditorium. The anatomical theatre is a perfect model of the art of
pressing students together. The audience are piled one above another
in a tall pointed funnel. They look down upon the narrow space where
the table stands, and, as no daylight falls upon it, the Professor must
demonstrate by lamplight. The botanic garden is much more pretty and
cheerful. Several plants can remain in the ground during the winter, if
they are set near the walls, or at no great distance from them. At the
end of October the whole is built over, and the process of heating is
carried on for the few remaining months. It is pleasant and instructive
to walk through a vegetation that is strange to us. With ordinary
plants, as well as with other objects that have been long familiar
to us, we at last do not think at all, and what is looking without
thinking? Amidst this variety which comes upon me quite new, the idea
that all forms of plants may, perhaps, be developed from a single
form, becomes more lively than ever. On this principle alone it would
be possible to define orders and classes, which, it seems to me, has
hitherto been done in a very arbitrary manner. At this point I stand
fast in my botanical philosophy, and I do not see how I am to extricate
myself. The depth and breadth of this business seem to me quite equal.

The great square, called _Prato della Valle_, is a very wide space,
where the chief fair is held in June. The wooden booths in the
middle of it do not produce the most favourable appearance, but the
inhabitants assure me that there will soon be a _fièra_ of stone here,
like that at Verona. One has hopes of this already, from the manner in
which the _Prato_ is surrounded, and which affords a very beautiful and
imposing view.

A huge oval is surrounded with statues, all representing celebrated
men, who have taught or studied at the University. Any native or
foreigner is allowed to erect a statue of a certain size to any
countryman or kinsman, as soon as the merit of the person and his
academical residence at Padua are proved.

[Sidenote: Padua.]

A moat filled with water goes round the oval. On the four bridges
which lead up to it stand colossal figures of Popes and Doges; the
other statues, which are smaller, have been set up by corporations,
private individuals, or foreigners. The King of Sweden caused a figure
of Gustavus Adolphus to be erected, because it is said he once heard a
lecture in Padua. The Archduke Leopold revived the memory of Petrarch
and Galileo. The statues are in a good, modern style, a few of them
rather affected, some very natural, and all in the costume of their
rank and dignity. The inscriptions deserve commendation. There is
nothing in them absurd or paltry.

At any university the thought would have been a happy one (and here it
is particularly so), because it is very delightful to see a whole line
of departed worthies thus called back again. It will perhaps form a
very beautiful _Prato_, when the wooden _Fièra_ shall be removed, and
one built of stone, according to the aforesaid plan.

In the consistory of a fraternity dedicated to S. Anthony, there are
some pictures of an early date, which remind one of the old German
paintings, and also some by Titian, in which may be remarked the
great progress which no one has made on the other side of the Alps.
Immediately afterwards I saw works by some of the most modern painters.
These artists, as they could not hope to succeed in the lofty and the
serious, have been very happy in hitting the humorous. The decollation
of John by Piazetta is, in this sense, a capital picture, if one can
once allow the master's manner. John is kneeling, with his hands before
him, and his right knee on a stone, looking towards heaven. One of the
soldiers, who is binding him, is bending round on one side, and looking
into his face, as if he was wondering at his patient resignation.
Higher up stands another, who is to deal the fatal blow. He does not,
however, hold the sword, but makes a motion with his hands, like one
who is practising the stroke beforehand. A third is drawing the sword
out of the scabbard. The thought is happy, if not grand, and the
composition is striking and produces the best effect.

In the church of the _Eremitani_ I have seen pictures by Mantegna,
one of the older painters, at which I am astonished. What a sharp,
strict actuality is exhibited in these pictures! It is from this
actuality, thoroughly true, not apparent, merely and falsely effective,
and appealing solely to the imagination, but solid, pure, bright,
elaborated, conscientious, delicate, and circumscribed--an actuality
which had about it something severe, credulous, and laborious; it is
from this, I say, that the later painters proceeded (as I remarked in
the pictures of Titian), in order that by the liveliness of their own
genius, the energy of their nature illumined at the same time by the
mind of the predecessors, and exalted by their force, they might rise
higher and higher, and elevated above the earth, produce forms that
were heavenly indeed, but still true. Thus was art developed after the
barbarous period.

The hall of audience in the town-house, properly designated by the
augmentative "Salone," is such a huge inclosure that one cannot
conceive it, much less recall it to one's immediate memory. It is three
hundred feet long, one hundred feet broad, and one hundred feet high,
measured up to the roof, which covers it quite in. So accustomed are
these people to live in the open air, that the architects look out
for a market-place to over-arch. And there is no question that this
huge vaulted space produces quite a peculiar effect. It is an inclosed
infinity, which has more analogy to man's habits and feelings than
the starry heavens. The latter takes us out of ourselves, the former
insensibility brings us back to ourselves.

For the same reason I also like to stay in the Church of S. Justina.
This church, which is eighty-five feet long, and high and broad in
proportion, is built in a grand and simple style. This evening I seated
myself in a corner, and indulged in quiet contemplation. Then I felt
myself truly alone, for no one in the world, even if he had thought of
me for the moment, would have looked for me here.

Now everything ought to be packed up again, for to-morrow morning I set
off by water, upon the Brenta. It rained to-day, but now it has cleared
up, and I hope I shall be able to see the lagunes and the Bride of the
Sea by beautiful daylight, and to greet my friends from her bosom.

       *       *       *       *       *

VENICE

Now it stood written on my page in the Book of Fate, that on the
evening of the 28th of September, by 5 o'clock, German time, I should
see Venice for the first time, as I passed from the Brenta into the
lagunes, and that, soon afterwards, I should actually enter: and visit
this strange island-city, this heaven-like republic. So now, Heaven be
praised, Venice is no longer to me a bare and a hollow name, which has
so long tormented me,--_me_, the mental enemy of mere verbal sounds.

As the first of the gondoliers came up to the ship (they come in order
to convey more quickly to Venice those passengers who are in a hurry),
I recollected an old plaything, of which, perhaps, I had not thought
for twenty years. My father had a beautiful model of a gondola which
he had brought with him [_from Italy_]; he set a great value upon it,
and it was considered a great treat, when I was allowed to play with
it. The first beaks of tinned iron-plate, the black gondola-gratings,
all greeted me like old acquaintances, and I experienced again dear
emotions of my childhood which had been long unknown.

I am well lodged at the sign of the _Queen of England_, not far from
the square of S. Mark, which is, indeed, the chief advantage of the
snot. My windows look upon a narrow canal between lofty houses, a
bridge of one arch is immediately below me, and directly opposite is a
narrow, bustling alley. Thus am I lodged, and here I shall remain until
I have made up my packet for Germany, and until I am satiated with the
sight of the city. I can now really enjoy the solitude for which I have
longed so ardently, for nowhere does a man feel himself more solitary
than in a crowd, where he must push his way unknown to every one.
Perhaps in Venice there is only one person who knows me, and he will
not come in contact with me all at once.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Venice, September 28_, 1786.

A few words on my journey hither from Padua. The passage on the Brenta,
in the public vessel, and in good company, is highly agreeable. The
banks are ornamented with gardens and villas, little hamlets come down
to the water's edge, and the animated highroad may be seen here and
there. As the descent of the river is by means of locks, there is often
a little pause, which may be employed in looking about the country, and
in tasting the fruits, which are offered in great abundance. You then
enter your vessel again, and move on through a world, which is itself
in motion, and which is full of life and fertility.

To so many changing forms and images a phenomenon was added, which,
although derived from Germany, was quite in its place here--I mean two
pilgrims, the first whom I have seen closely. They have a right to
travel gratis in this public conveyance; but because the rest of the
passengers dislike coming into contact with them, they do not sit in
the covered part, but in the after-part beside the steersman. They were
stared at as a phenomenon even at the present day, and as in former
times many vagabonds had made use of this cloak, they were but lightly
esteemed. When I learned that they were Germans, and could speak no
language but their own, I joined them, and found that they came from
the Paderborn territory. Both of them were men of more than fifty
years of age, and of a dark, but good-humoured physiognomy. They had
first visited the sepulchre of the "Three Kings" at Cologne, had then
travelled through Germany, and were now together on their way back to
Borne and Upper Italy, whence one intended to set out for Westphalia,
and the other to pay a visit of adoration to St. James of Compostella.

Their dress was the well-known costume of pilgrims, but they looked
much better with this tucked up robe, than the pilgrims in long taffeta
garments, we are accustomed to exhibit at our masquerades. The long
cape, the round hat, the staff and cockle (the latter used as the most
innocent drinking-vessel)--all had its signification, and its immediate
use, while a tin-case held their passports. Most remarkable of all
were their small, red morocco pocket-books, in which they kept all
the little implements that might be wanted for any simple necessity.
They took them out on finding that something wanted mending in their
garments.

[Sidenote: The passage to Venice.]

The steersman, highly pleased to find an interpreter, made me ask them
several questions, and thus I learned a great deal about their views,
and especially about their expedition. They made bitter complaints
against their brethren in the faith, and even against the clergy,
both secular and monastic. Piety, they said, must be a very scarce
commodity, since no one would believe in theirs, but they were treated
as vagrants in almost every Catholic country, although they produced
the route which had been clerically prescribed, and the passports given
by the bishop. On the other hand, they described, with a great deal
of emotion, how well they had been received by protestants, and made
special mention of a country clergyman in Suabia, and still more of his
wife, who had prevailed on her somewhat unwilling husband to give them
an abundant repast, of which they stood in great need. On taking leave,
the good couple had given them a "convention's dollar,"[3] which they
found very serviceable, as soon as they entered the Catholic territory.
Upon this, one of them said, with all the elevation of which he was
capable: "We include this lady every day in our prayers, and implore
God that he will open her eyes, as he has opened her heart towards us,
and take her, although late, into the bosom of the Catholic Church. And
thus we hope that we shall meet her in Paradise hereafter."

As I sat upon the little gang-way which led to the deck, I explained
as much as was necessary and useful to the steers-man, and to some
other persons who had crowded from the cabin into this narrow space.
The pilgrims received some paltry donations, for the Italian is not
fond of giving. Upon this they drew out some little consecrated
tickets, on which might be seen the representation of the three sainted
kings, with some prayers addressed to them. The worthy men entreated
me to distribute these tickets among the little party, and explain
how invaluable they were. In this I succeeded perfectly, for when
the two men appeared to be greatly embarrassed as to how they should
find the convent devoted to pilgrims in so large a place as Venice,
the steersman was touched, and promised that, when they landed, he
would give a boy a trifle to lead them to that distant spot. He added
to me in confidence, that they would find but little welcome. "The
institution," he said, "was founded to admit I don't know how many
pilgrims, but now it has become greatly contracted, and the revenues
are otherwise employed."

During this conversation we had gone down the beautiful Brenta, leaving
behind us many a noble garden, and many a noble palace, and casting
a rapid glance at the populous and thriving hamlets, which lay along
the banks. Several gondolas wound about the ship as soon as we had
entered the lagunes. A Lombard, well acquainted with Venice, asked me
to accompany him, that we might enter all the quicker, and escape the
nuisance of the custom-house. Those who endeavoured to hold us back, he
contrived to put off with a little drink-money, and so, in a cheerful
sunset, we floated to the place of our destination.


[Footnote 3: A "convention's dollar" is a dollar coined in consequence
of an agreement made between several of the German states, in the year
1750, when the Viennese standard was adopted.--Trans.]

       *       *       *       *       *

_Sept._ 29 (_Michaelmas-Day_). _Evening._

So much has already been told and printed about Venice, that I
shall not be circumstantial in my description, but shall only say
how it struck me. Now, in this instance again, that which makes the
chief impression upon me, is the people,--a great mass, who live an
involuntary existence determined by the changing circumstances of the
moment.

It was for no idle fancy that this race fled to these islands; it was
no mere whim which impelled those who followed to combine with them;
necessity taught them to look for security in a highly disadvantageous
situation, that afterwards became most advantageous, enduing them
with talent, when the whole northern world was immersed in gloom.
Their increase and their wealth were a necessary consequence. New
dwellings arose close against dwellings, rocks took the place of sand
and marsh, houses sought the sky, being forced like trees inclosed in
a narrow compass, to seek in height what was denied them in breadth.
Being niggards of every inch of ground, as having been from the very
first compressed into a narrow compass, they allowed no more room
for the streets than was just necessary to separate a row of houses
from the one opposite, and to afford the citizens a narrow passage.
Moreover, water supplied the place of street, square, and promenade.
The Venetian was forced to become a new creature; and thus Venice can
only be compared with itself. The large canal, winding like a serpent,
yields to no street in the world, and nothing can be put by the side
of the space in front of St. Mark's square--I mean that great mirror
of water, which is encompassed by Venice Proper, in the form of a
crescent. Across the watery surface you see to the left the island of
St. Georgio Maggiore, to the right a little, further off the Guidecca
and its canal, and still more distant the _Dogana_ (Custom-house)
and the entrance into the _Canal Grande_, where right before us two
immense marble temples are glittering in the sunshine. All the views
and prospects have been so often engraved, that my friends will have no
difficulty in forming a clear idea of them.

[Sidenote: Venice.]

After dinner I hastened to fix my first impression of the whole, and
without a guide, and merely observing the cardinal points, threw myself
into the labyrinth of the city, which though everywhere intersected by
larger or smaller canals, is again connected by bridges. The narrow
and crowded appearance of the whole cannot be conceived by one who has
not seen it. In most cases one can quite or nearly measure the breadth
of the street, by stretching out one's arms, and in the narrowest, a
person would scrape his elbows if he walked with his arms a-kimbo. Some
streets, indeed, are wider, and here and there is a little square, but
comparatively all may be called narrow.

I easily found the grand canal, and the principal bridge--the Rialto,
which consists of a single arch of white marble. Looking down from
this, one has a fine prospect,--the canal full of ships, which bring
every necessary from the continent, and put in chiefly at this place to
unload, while between them is a swarm of gondolas. To-day, especially,
being Michaelmas, the view was wonderfully animated; but to give some
notion of it, I must go back a little.

The two principal parts of Venice, which are divided by the grand
canal, are connected by no other bridge than the Rialto, but several
means of communication are provided, and the river is crossed in
open boats at certain fixed points. To-day a very pretty effect was
produced, by the number of well-dressed ladies, who, their features
concealed beneath large black veils, were being ferried over in large
parties at a time, in order to go to the church of the Archangel, whose
festival was being solemnised. I left the bridge and went to one of
the points of landing, to see the parties as they left the boats. I
discovered some very fine forms and faces among them.

After I had become tired of this amusement. I seated myself in a
gondola, and, quitting the narrow streets with the intention of
witnessing a spectacle of an opposite description, went along the
northern part of the grand canal, into the lagunes, and then entered
the canal della Guidecca, going as far as the square of St. Mark. Now
was I also one of the birds of the Adriatic sea, as every Venetian
feels himself to be, whilst reclining in his gondola. I then thought
with due honour of my good father, who knew of nothing better than to
talk about the things I now witnessed. And will it not be so with me
likewise? All that surrounds me is dignified--a grand venerable work
of combined human energies, a noble monument, not of a ruler, but of a
people. And if their lagunes are gradually filling up, if unwholesome
vapours are floating over the marsh, if their trade is declining and
their power has sunk, still the great place and the essential character
will not for a moment, be less venerable to the observer. Venice
succumbs to time, like everything that has a phenomenal existence.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Sept._ 30.

Towards evening I again rambled, without a guide, into the remotest
quarters of the city. The bridges here are all provided with stairs,
that gondolas, and even larger vessels, may pass conveniently under the
arches. I sought to find my way in and out of this labyrinth, without
asking anybody, and, on this occasion also, only guiding myself by
the points of the compass. One disentangles one's self at last, but
it is a wonderful complication, and my manner of obtaining a sensible
impression of it, is the best. I have now been to the remotest points
of the city, and observed the conduct, mode of life, manners, and
character of the inhabitants; and in every quarter they are different.
Gracious Heaven!--What a poor good sort of animal man is, after all!

Most of the smaller houses stand immediately on the canals, but there
are here and there quays of stone, beautifully paved, along which one
may take a pleasant walk between the water, and the churches, and
palaces. Particularly cheerful and agreeable is the long stone quay
on the northern side, from which the islands are visible, especially
Murano, which is a Venice on a small scale. The intervening lagunes
are all alive with little gondolas.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Sept._ 30. _Evening._

To-day I have enlarged my notions of Venice by procuring a plan of it.
When I had studied it for some time, I ascended the tower of St. Mark,
where an unique spectacle is presented to the eye. It was noon, and the
sun was so bright that I could see places near and distant without a
glass. The tide covered the lagunes, and when I turned my eyes towards
what is called the _Lido_ (this is a narrow strip of earth, which
bounds the lagunes), I saw the sea for the first time with some sails
upon it. In the lagunes themselves some gallies and frigates are lying,
destined to join the Chevalier Emo, who is making war on the Algerines,
but detained by unfavorable winds. The mountains of Padua and Vicenza,
and the mountain-chain of Tyrol, beautifully bound the picture between
the north and west.

       *       *       *       *       *

_October_ 1.

I went out and surveyed the city from many points of view, and as
it was Sunday, I was struck by the great want of cleanliness in the
streets, which forced me to make some reflections. There seems to be a
sort of policy in this matter, for the people scrape the sweepings into
the corners, and I see large ships going backwards and forwards, which
at several points He to, and take off the accumulation. They belong to
the people of the surrounding islands, who are in want of manure. But,
however, there is neither consistency nor strictness in this method,
and the want of cleanliness in the city is the more unpardonable, as in
it, as much provision has been made for cleaning it, as in any Dutch
town.

All the streets are paved--even those in the remotest quarters, with
bricks at least, which are laid down lengthwise, with the edges
slightly canting: the middle of the street where necessary is raised a
little, while channels are formed on each side to receive the water,
and convey it into covered drains. There are other architectural
arrangements in the original well-considered plan, which prove the
intention of the excellent architects to make Venice the most cleanly,
as well as the most singular of cities. As I walked along I could
not refrain from sketching a body of regulations on the subject,
anticipating in thought some superintendent of police, who might
act in earnest. Thus one always feels an inclination to sweep one's
neighbour's door.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Oct._ 2, 1786.

Before all things I hastened to the _Carità._ I had found in Palladio's
works that he had planned a monastic building here, in which he
intended to represent a private residence of the rich and hospitable
ancients. The plan, which was excellently drawn, both as a whole and in
detail, gave me infinite delight, and I hoped to find a marvel. Alas!
scarcely a tenth part of the edifice is finished. However, even this
part is worthy of that heavenly genius. There is a completeness in
the plan, and an accuracy in the execution, which I had never before
witnessed. One ought to pass whole years in the contemplation of such
a work. It seems to me that I have seen nothing grander, nothing more
perfect, and I fancy that I am not mistaken. Only imagine the admirable
artist, born with an inner feeling for the grand and the pleasing,
now, for the first time, forming himself by the ancients, with
incredible labour, that he may be the means of reviving them. He finds
an opportunity to carry out a favorite thought in building a convent,
which is destined as a dwelling for so many monks, and a shelter for so
many strangers, in the form of an antique private residence.

The church was already standing and led to an atrium of Corinthian
columns. Here one feels delighted, and forgets all priestcraft. At one
end, the sacristy, at another, a chapter-room is found, while there
is the finest winding stair-case in the world, with a wide well, and
the stone-steps built into the wall, and so laid, that one supports
another. One is never tired of going up and down this stair-case,
and we may judge of its success, from the fact that Palladio himself
declares that he has succeeded. The fore-court leads to the large
inner-court. Unfortunately, nothing is finished of the building which
was to surround this, except the left side. Here there are three rows
of columns, one over the other; on the ground-floor are the halls, on
the first story is an archway in front of the cells, and the upper
story consists of a plain wall with windows. However, this description
should be illustrated by a reference to the sketches. I will just add a
word about the execution.

[Sidenote: Venice.]

Only the capitals and bases of the columns, and the key-stones of the
arches, are of hewn stone; all the rest is--I will not say of brick,
but-of burned clay. This description of tile I never saw before. The
frieze and cornice are of the same material, as well as the parts
of the arch. All is but half burnt, and lastly the building is put
together with a very little lime. As it stands it looks as if it had
been produced at one cast. If the whole had been finished, and it had
been properly rubbed up and coloured, it would have been a charming
sight.

However, as so often happens with buildings of a modern time, the plan
was too large. The artist had pre-supposed not only that the existing
convent would be pulled down, but also that the adjoining houses would
be bought, and here money and inclination probably began to fail. Kind
Destiny, thou who hast formed and perpetuated so much stupidity, why
didst thou not allow this work to be completed!

       *       *       *       *       *

_Oct._ 3.

The church _Il Redentore_ is a large and beautiful work by Palladio,
with a façade even more worthy of praise than that of S. Giorgio. These
works, which have often been engraved, must be placed before you, to
elucidate what is said. I will only add a few words.

Palladio was thoroughly imbued with the antique mode of existence,
and felt the narrow, petty spirit of his own age, like a great man
who will not give way to it, but strives to mould all that it leaves
him, as far as possible, into accordance with his own ideas. From a
slight perusal of his book I conclude that he was displeased with the
continued practice of building Christian churches after the form of
the ancient Basilica, and, therefore, sought to make his own sacred
edifices approximate to the form of the antique temple. Hence arose
certain discrepancies, which, as it seemed to me, are happily avoided
in _Il Redentore_, but are rather obvious in the S. Giorgio. Volckmann
says something about it, but does not hit the nail on the head.

The interior of _Il Redentore_ is likewise admirable. Everything,
including even the designs of the altars, is by Palladio.
Unfortunately, the niches, which should have been filled with statues,
are glaring with wooden figures, flat, carved, and painted.

       *       *       *       *       *

_October_ 3.

In honour of S. Francis, S. Peter's capuchins have splendidly adorned
a side altar. There was nothing to be seen of stone but the Corinthian
capitals; all the rest seemed to be covered with tasteful but splendid
embroidery, in the arabesque style, and the effect was as pretty
as could be desired. I particularly admired the broad tendrils and
foliage, embroidered in gold. Going nearer, I discovered an ingenious
deception. All that I had taken for gold was, in fact, straw pressed
flat, and glued upon paper, according to some beautiful outlines, while
the ground was painted with lively colours. This is done with such
variety and tact, that the design, which was probably worked in the
convent itself, with a material that was worth nothing, must have cost
several thousand dollars, if the material had been genuine. It might on
occasion be advantageously imitated.

On one of the quays, and in front of the water I have often remarked a
little fellow telling stories in the Venetian dialect, to a greater or
less concourse of auditors. Unfortunately I cannot understand a word,
but I observe that no one laughs, though the audience, who are composed
of the lowest class, occasionally smile. There is nothing striking or
ridiculous in the man's appearance, but, on the contrary, something
very sedate, with such admirable variety and precision in his gestures,
that they evince art and reflection.

       *       *       *       *       *

_October_ 3.

With my plan in my hand I endeavored to find my way through the
strangest labyrinth to the church of the _Mendicanti._ Here is the
conservatorium, which stands in the highest repute at the present day.
The ladies performed an oratorio behind the grating, the church was
filled with hearers, the music was very beautiful, and the voices were
magnificent. An alto sung the part of King Saul, the chief personage
in the poem. Of such a voice I had no notion whatever; some passages of
the music were excessively beautiful, and the words, which were Latin,
most laughably Italianized in some places, were perfectly adapted for
singing. Music here has a wide field.

[Sidenote: Venice.]

The performance would have been a source of great enjoyment, if the
accursed _Maestro di Capella_ had not beaten time with a roll of
music against the grating, as conspicuously as if he had to do with
school-boys, whom he was instructing. As the girls had repeated the
piece often enough, his noise was quite unnecessary, and destroyed all
impression, as much as he would, who, in order to make a beautiful
statue intelligible to us, should stick scarlet patches on the joints.
The foreign sound destroys all harmony. Now this man is a musician, and
yet he seems not to be sensible of this; or, more properly speaking,
he chooses to let his presence be known by an impropriety, when it
would have been much better to allow his value to be perceived by the
perfection of the execution. I know that this is the fault of the
French, but I did not give the Italians credit for it, and yet the
public seems accustomed to it. This is not the first time that that
which spoils enjoyment, has been supposed to belong directly to it.

       *       *       *       *       *

_October_ 3.

Yesterday evening I went to the Opera at the S. Moses (for the theatres
take their name from the church to which they lie nearest); nothing
very delightful! In the plan, the music, and the singers, that energy
was wanting, which alone can elevate opera to the highest point. One
could not say of any part that it was bad, but the two female actresses
alone took pains, not so much to act well, but to set themselves off
and to please. That is something, after all. These two actresses have
beautiful figures, and good voices, and are nice, lively, compact,
little bodies. Among the men, on the other hand, there is no trace of
national power, or even of pleasure, in working on the imaginations
of their audience. Neither is there among them any voice of decided
brilliancy.

The ballet, which was wretchedly conceived, was condemned as a whole,
but some excellent dancers and _danseuses_, the latter of whom
considered it their duty to make the spectators acquainted with all
their person charms, were heartily applauded.

       *       *       *       *       *

_October_ 5.

To-day, however, I saw another comedy, which gave me more pleasure. In
the ducal palace I heard the public discussion of a law case. It was
important, and, happily for me, was brought forward in the holidays.
One of the advocates had all the qualifications for an exaggerated
_buffo._ His figure was short and fat, but supple; in profile his
features were monstrously prominent. He had a stentorian voice, and
a vehemence as if everything that he said came in earnest from the
very bottom of his heart. I call this a comedy, because, probably,
everything had been already prepared when the public exhibition took
place. The judges knew what they had to say, and the parties what they
had to expect. However, this plan pleases me infinitely more than
our hobbling law affairs. I will endeavor to give some notion of the
particulars, and of the neat, natural, and unostentatious manner in
which everything takes place.

In a spacious hall of the palace the judges were sitting on one side,
in a half circle. Opposite to them, in a tribune which could hold
several persons, were the advocates for both parties; and upon a
bench immediately in front of them, the plantiff, and defendant in
person. The advocate for the plaintiff had descended from the tribune,
since there was to be no controversy at this day's sitting. All the
documents, on both sides, were to be read, although they were already
printed.

A lean clerk, in a black scanty gown, and with a thick bundle in
his hand, prepared to perform the office of a reader. The hall was
completely crammed with persons who came to see and to hear. The point
of law itself, and the persons whom it concerned, must have appeared
highly important to the Venetians.

Trust-estates are so decidedly secured in Venice, that a property once
stamped with this character, preserves it for ever, though it may have
been divested ages ago by appropriations or other circumstances, and
though it may have passed through ever so many hands. When the matter
comes into dispute the descendants of the first family recover their
right, and the property must be delivered up.

[Sidenote: Venice.]

On this occasion the discussion was highly important, for the action
was brought against the doge himself, or rather against his wife, who
veiled by her _zendal_, or little hood, sat only at a little distance
from the plaintiff. She was a lady of a certain age, of noble stature,
and with well-formed features, in which there was something of an
earnest, not to say fretful character. The Venetians make it a great
boast that the princess in her own palace, is obliged to appear before
them and the tribunal.

When the clerk began to read, I for the first time clearly discerned
the business of a little man who sat on a low stool behind a small
table opposite the judges, and near the advocates. More especially
I learned the use of an hour-glass, which was placed before him. As
long as the clerk reads, time is not heeded, but the advocate is only
allowed a certain time, if he speaks in the course of the reading.
The clerk reads, and the hour-glass lies in a horizontal position,
with the little man's hand upon it. As soon as the advocate opens his
mouth, the glass is raised, and sinks again, as soon as he is silent.
It is the great duty of the advocate to make remarks on what is read,
to introduce cursory observations in order to excite and challenge
attention. This puts the little Saturn in a state of the greatest
perplexity. He is obliged every moment to change the horizontal and
vertical position of the glass, and finds himself in the situation
of the evil spirits in the puppet-show, who by the quickly varying
"Berliche, Berloche" of the mischievous _Hanswurst_[4], are puzzled
whether they are to come or to go.

Whoever has heard documents read over in a law-court, can imagine
the reading on this occasion,--quick and monotonous, but plain and
articulate enough. The ingenious advocate contrives to interrupt the
tedium by jests, and the public shows its delight in his jokes by
immoderate laughter. I must mention one, the most striking of those I
could understand. The reader was just reciting the document, by which,
one, who was considered to have been illegally possessed of it, had
disposed of the property in question. The advocate bade him lead more
slowly, and when he plainly uttered the words: "I give and bequeath,"
the orator flew violently at the clerk and cried: "What will you
give? What will you bequeath? you poor starved-out devil, nothing in
the world belongs to you?" "However,"--he continued, as he seemed to
collect himself--"the illustrious owner was in the same predicament.
He wished to give, he wished to bequeath that which belonged to him no
more than to you." A burst of inextinguishable laughter followed this
sally, but the hour-glass at once resumed its horizontal position. The
reader went mumbling on, and made a saucy face at the advocate; but all
these jokes are prepared beforehand.


[Footnote 4: An allusion to the comic scene, in the puppet-play of
Faust, from which Göethe took the subject of his poem. One of the two
magic words (Berliche, Berloche) summons the devils, the other drives
them away, and the Hanswurst (or buffoon), in a mock-incantation scene,
perplexes the fiends, by uttering one word after the other, as rapidly
as possible.--Trans.] [Footnote 4: An allusion to the comic scene,
in the puppet-play of Faust, from which Göethe took the subject of
his poem. One of the two magic words (Berliche, Berloche) summons the
devils, the other drives them away, and the Hanswurst (or buffoon), in
a mock-incantation scene, perplexes the fiends, by uttering one word
after the other, as rapidly as possible.--Trans.]

       *       *       *       *       *

_Oct._ 4.

I was yesterday at the play, in the theatre of S. Luke, and was highly
pleased. I saw a piece acted _extempore_ in masks, with a great deal
of nature, energy, and vigour. The actors are not, indeed, all equal;
the pantaloon is excellent, and one of the actresses, who is stout and
well-built, speaks admirably, and deports herself cleverly, though she
is no extraordinary actress. The subject of the piece is extravagant,
and resembled that which is treated by us under the name of _Der
Verschlag_ (the partition). With inexhaustible variety it amused us
for more than three hours. But even here the people is the base upon
which everything rests, the spectators are themselves actors, and the
multitude is melted into one whole with the stage. All day long the
buyer and the seller, the beggar, the sailor, the female gossip, the
advocate and his opponent, are living and acting in the square and
on the bench, in the gondolas and in the palaces, and make it their
business to talk and to asseverate, to cry and to offer for sale, to
sing and to play, to curse and to brawl. In the evening they go into
the theatre, and see and hear the life of the day artificially put
together, prettily set off, interwoven with a story, removed from
reality by the masks, and brought near to it by manners. In all this
they take a childish delight and again shout and clap, and make a
noise. From day to night,--nay, from midnight to midnight, it is always
the same.

I have not often seen more natural acting than that by these masks. It
is such acting as can only be sustained by a remarkably happy talent
and long practice.

While I am writing this, they are making a tremendous noise on the
canal under my window, though it is past midnight. Whether for good or
for evil, they are always doing something.

       *       *       *       *       *

_October_ 4.

I have now heard public orators; viz., three fellows in the square
and on the stone-bench, each telling tales after his fashion, two
advocates, two preachers, and the actors, among whom I must especially
commend the pantaloon. All these have something in common, both
because they belong to one and the same nation, which, as it always
lives in public, always adopts an impassioned manner of speaking, and
because they imitate each other. There is besides a marked language
of gesticulations, with which they accompany the expressions of their
intentions, views, and feelings.

[Sidenote: Venice.]

This day was the festival of S. Francis, and I was in his church Alle
Vigne. The loud voice of the capuchin was accompanied by the cries of
the salesmen in front of the church, as by an antiphone. I stood at the
church-door between the two, and the effect was singular enough.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Oct._ 5.

This morning I was in the arsenal, which I found interesting enough,
though I know nothing of maritime affairs, and visited the lower school
there. It has an appearance like that of an old family, which still
bustles about, although its best time of blossom and fruit has passed.
By paying attention to the handicraftsmen, I have seen much that is
remarkable, and have been on board an eighty-four gun ship, the hull of
which is just completed.

Six months ago a thing of the sort was burned down to the water's
edge, off the Riva dei Schiavoni. The powder-room was not very full,
and when it blew up, it did no great damage. The windows of the
neighbouring houses were destroyed.

I have seen worked the finest oak from Istria, and have made my
observations in return upon this valuable tree. That knowledge of the
natural things used by man as materials, and employed for his wants,
which I have acquired with so much difficulty, has been incalculably
serviceable in explaining to me the proceedings of artists and
artisans. The knowledge of mountains and of the stone taken out of them
has been to me a great advance in art.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Oct._ 5.

To give a notion of the Bucentaur in one word, I should say that it
is a state-galley. The older one, of which we still have drawings,
justified this appellation still more than the present one, which, by
its splendour makes us forget its original.

I am always returning to my old opinions. When a genuine subject is
given to an artist, his productions will be something genuine also.
Here the artist was commissioned to form a galley, worthy to carry
the heads of the Republic, on the highest festivals in honour of its
ancient rule on the sea; and the problem has been admirably solved. The
vessel is all ornament; we ought to say, it is overladen with ornament;
it is altogether one piece of gilt carving, for no other use, but
that of a pageant to exhibit to the people its leaders in right noble
style. We know well enough that a people, who likes to deck out its
boats, is no less pleased to see their rulers bravely adorned. This
state-galley is a good index to show what the Venetians were, and what
they considered themselves.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Oct._ 5. _Night._

I came home laughing from a tragedy, and must at once make the jest
secure upon paper. The piece was not bad, the author had brought
together all the tragic _matadors_, and the actors played well. Most
of the situations were well known, but some were new and highly
felicitous. There are two fathers, who hate each other, sons and
daughters of these severed families, who respectively are passionately
in love with each other, and one couple is even privately married. Wild
and cruel work goes on, and at last nothing remains to render the young
people happy, but to make the two fathers kill each other, upon which
the curtain falls amid the liveliest applause. Now the applause becomes
more vehement, now "fuora" was called out, and this lasted until the
two principal couples vouchsafed to crawl forward from behind the
curtain, make their bow, and retire at the opposite side.

[Sidenote: Venice.]

The public was not yet satisfied, but went on clapping and crying: "i
morti!" till the two dead men also come forward and made their bow,
when some voices cried "bravi i morti!" The applause detained them
for a long time, till at last they were allowed to depart. The effect
is infinitely more droll to the eye-and-ear-witness, who, like me,
has ringing in his ears the "bravo! bravi!" which the Italians have
incessantly in their mouths, and then suddenly hears the dead also
called forward with this word of honour.

We of the north can say "good night" at any hour, when we take leave
after dark, but the Italian says: "Felicissima notte" only once, and
that is when the candles are brought into a room. Day and night are
thus divided, and something quite different is meant. So impossible is
it to translate the idioms of any language! From the highest to the
lowest word all has reference to the peculiarities of the natives, in
character, opinions, or circumstances.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Oct._ 6.

The tragedy yesterday taught me a great deal. In the first place, I
have heard how the Italians treat and declaim their Eleven-syllable
iambics, and in the next place, I have understood the tact of Gozzi in
combining masks with his tragic personages. This is the proper sort of
play for this people, which likes to be moved in a rough fashion. It
has no tender, heart-felt sympathy for the unfortunate personage, but
is only pleased when the hero speaks well. The Italians attach a great
deal of importance to the speaking, and then they like to laugh, or to
hear something silly.

Their interest in the drama is like that in a real event. When the
tyrant gave his son a sword and required him to kill his own wife,
who was standing opposite, the people began loudly to express their
disapprobation of this demand, and there was a great risk that
the piece would have been interrupted. They insisted that the old
man should take his sword back, in which case all the subsequent
situations in the drama would have been completely spoiled. At last,
the distressed son plucked up courage, advanced to the proscenium, and
humbly entreated that the audience would have patience for a moment,
assuring them that all would turn out to their entire satisfaction.
But even judging from an artistical point of view, this situation was,
under the circumstances, silly and unnatural, and I commended the
people for their feeling.

I can now better understand the long speeches and the frequent
dissertations, _pro_ and _con_, in the Greek tragedy. The Athenians
liked still more to hear speaking, and were still better judges of it,
than the Italians. They learned something from the courts of law, where
they spent the whole day.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Oct._ 6.

In those works of Palladio, which are completed, I have found much to
blame, together with much that is highly valuable. While I was thinking
it over in my mind how far I was right or wrong in setting my judgment
in opposition to that of so extraordinary a man, I felt as if he stood
by and said, "I did so and so against my will, but, nevertheless, I
did it, because in this manner alone was it possible for me, under
the given circumstances, to approximate to my highest idea." The
more I think the matter over, it seems to me, that Palladio, while
contemplating the height and width of an already existing church, or of
an old house to which he was to attach facades, only considered: "How
will you give the greatest form to these dimensions? Some part of the
detail must from the necessity of the case, be put out of its place
or spoiled, and something unseemly is sure to arise here and there.
Be that as it may, the whole will have a grand style, and you will be
pleased with your work."

And thus he carried out the great image which he had within his soul,
just to the point where it was not quite suitable, and where he was
obliged in the detail to mutilate or to overcrowd it.

On the other hand, the wing of the Carità cannot be too highly prized,
for here the artist's hands were free, and he could follow the bent of
his own mind without constraint. If the convent were finished there
would, perhaps, be no work of architecture more perfect throughout the
present world.

[Sidenote: Venice.]

How he thought and how he worked becomes more and more clear to me, the
more I read his works, and reflect how he treated the ancients; for
he says few words, but they are all important. The fourth book, which
illustrates the antique temples, is a good introduction to a judicious
examination of ancient remains.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Oct._ 6.

Yesterday evening I saw the _Electra_ of Crebillon--that is to say, a
translation--at the theatre S. Crisostomo. I cannot say, how absurd the
piece appeared to me, and how terribly it tired me out.

The actors are generally good, and know how to put off the public with
single passages.

Orestes alone has three narratives, poetically set off, in one scene.
Electra, a pretty little woman of the middle size and stature, with
almost French vivacity, and with a good deportment, delivered the
verses beautifully, only she acted the part madly from beginning to
end, which, alas! it requires. However, I have again learned something.
The Italian Iambic, which is invariably of eleven syllables, is very
inconvenient for declamation, because the last syllable is always
short, and causes an elevation of the voice against the will of the
declaimer.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Oct._ 6.

This morning I was present at high mass, which annually on this day
the Doge must attend, in the church of St. Justina, to commemorate an
old victory over the Turks. When the gilded barks, which carry the
princes and a portion of the nobility approach the little square, when
the boatmen, in their rare liveries, are plying their red-painted
oars, when on the shore the clergy and the religious fraternities are
standing, pushing, moving about, and waiting with their lighted torches
fixed upon poles and portable silver chandeliers; then, when the
gangways covered with carpet are placed from the vessels to the shore,
and first the full violet dresses of the Savii, next the ample red
robes of the Senators are unfolded upon the pavement, and lastly when
the old Doge adorned with his golden Phrygian cap, in his long golden
_talar_ and his ermine cloak, steps out of the vessel--when all this,
I say, takes place in a little square before the portal of a church,
one feels as if one were looking at an old worked tapestry, exceedingly
well designed and coloured. To me, northern fugitive as I am, this
ceremony gave a great deal of pleasure. With us, who parade nothing
but short coats in our processions of pomp, and who conceive nothing
greater than one performed with shouldered arms, such an affair might
be out of place. But these trains, these peaceful celebrations are all
in keeping here.

The Doge is a well-grown and well-shaped man, who, perhaps, suffers
from ill health, but, nevertheless, for dignity's sake, bears himself
upright under his heavy robe. In other respects he looks like the
grandpapa of the whole race, and is kind and affable. His dress is very
becoming, the little cap, which he wears under the large one, does not
offend the eye, resting as it does upon the whitest and finest hair in
the world.

About fifty _nobili_, with long dark-red trains, were with him. For the
most part they were handsome men, and there was not a single uncouth
figure among them. Several of them were tall with large heads, so that
the white curly wigs were very becoming to them. Their features are
prominent; the flesh of their faces is soft and white, without looking
flabby and disagreeable. On the contrary, there is an appearance
of talent without exertion, repose, self-confidence, easiness of
existence, and a certain joyousness-pervades the whole.

When all had taken their places in the church, and mass began, the
fraternities entered by the chief door, and went out at the side door
to the right, after they had received holy water in couples, and made
their obeisance to the high altar, to the Doge, and the nobility.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Oct._ 6.

This evening I bespoke the celebrated _song_ of the mariners, who
chaunt Tasso and Ariosto to melodies of their own. This must actually
be ordered, as it is not to be beard as a thing, of course, but rather
belongs to the half forgotten traditions of former times. I entered
a gondola by moon-light, with one singer before and the other behind
me. They sing their song taking up the verses alternately. The melody,
which we know through Rousseau, is of a middle kind, between choral
and recitative, maintaining throughout the same cadence, with out any
fixed time. The modulation is also uniform, only varying with a sort
of declamation both tone and measure, according to the subject of the
verse. But the spirit--the life of it, is as follows:--

Without inquiring into the construction of the melody, suffice it to
say that it is admirably suited to that easy class of people, who,
always humming something or other to themselves, adapt such tunes to
any little poem they know by heart.

[Sidenote: Venice.]

Sitting on the shore of an island, on the bank of a canal, or on the
side of a boat, a gondolier will sing away with a loud penetrating
voice--the multitude admire force above everything--anxious only to
be heard as far as possible. Over the silent mirror it travels far.
Another in the distance, who is acquainted with the melody and knows
the words, takes it up and answers with the next verse, and then the
first replies, so that the one is as it were the echo of the other. The
song continues through whole nights and is kept up without fatigue. The
further the singers are from each other, the more touching sounds the
strain. The best place for the listener is halfway between the two.

In order to let me hear it, they landed on the bank of the Guidecca,
and took up different positions by the canal. I walked backwards and
forwards between them, so as to leave the one whose turn it was to
sing, and to join the one who had just left off. Then it was that the
effect of the strain first opened upon me. As a voice from the distance
it sounds in the highest degree strange--as a lament without sadness:
it has an incredible effect and is moving even to tears. I ascribed
this to my own state of mind, but my old boatsman said: "è singolare,
como quel canto intenerisce, e molto piu quando è piu ben cantato." He
wished that I could hear the women of the Lido, especially those of
Malamocco, and Pelestrina. These also, he told me, chanted Tasso and
Ariosto to the same or similar melodies. He went on: "in the evening,
while their husbands are on the sea fishing, they are accustomed to
sit on the beach, and with shrill-penetrating voice to make these
strains resound, until they catch from the distance the voices of their
partners, and in this way they keep up a communication with them." Is
not that beautiful? and yet, it is very possible that one who heard
them close by, would take little pleasure in such tones which have
to vie with the waves of the sea. Human, however, and true becomes
the song in this way: thus is life given to the melody, on whose dead
elements we should otherwise have been sadly puzzled. It is the song
of one solitary, singing at a distance, in the hope that another of
kindred feelings and sentiments may hear and answer.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Venice, Oct._ 8, 1786.

I paid a visit to the palace Pisani Moretta, for the sake of a charming
picture by _Paul Veronese._ The females of the family of Darius are
represented kneeling before Alexander and Hephæstion; his mother,
who is in the foreground, mistakes Hephæstion for the king;--turning
away from her he points to Alexander. A strange story is told about
this painting; the artist had been well received and for a long time
honorably entertained in the palace; in return he secretly painted
the picture and left it behind him as a present, rolled up under his
bed. Certainly it well deserves to have had a singular origin, for it
gives an idea of all the peculiar merits of this master. The great art
with which he manages by a skilful distribution of light and shade,
and by an equally clever contrast of the local colors, to produce a
most delightful harmony without throwing any sameness of tone over the
whole picture, is here most strikingly visible. For the picture is in
excellent preservation, and stands before us almost with the freshness
of yesterday.--Indeed, whenever a painting of this order has suffered
from neglect, our enjoyment of it is marred on the spot, even before we
are conscious what the cause may be.

Whoever feels disposed to quarrel with the artist on the score of
costume has only to say he ought to have painted a scene of the
sixteenth century; and the matter is at an end. The gradation in the
expression from the mother through the wife to the daughters, is in the
highest degree true and happy. The youngest princess, who kneels behind
all the rest, is a beautiful girl, and has a very pretty, but somewhat
independent and haughty countenance. Her position does not at all seem
to please her.

       *       *       *       *       *

_October_ 8, 1786.

My old gift of seeing the world with the eyes of that artist, whose
pictures have most recently made an impression on me, has occasioned me
some peculiar reflections. It is evident that the eye forms itself by
the objects, which, from youth up, it is accustomed to look upon, and
so the Venetian artist must see all things in a clearer and brighter
light than other men. We, whose eye when out of doors, falls on a dingy
soil, which, when not muddy, is dusty,--and which, always colourless,
gives a sombre hue to the reflected rays, or at home spend our lives in
close, narrow rooms, can never attain to such a cheerful view of nature.

[Sidenote: Venice.]

As I floated down the lagunes in the full sunshine, and observed
how the figures of the gondoliers in their motley costume, and as
they rowed, lightly moving above the sides of the gondola, stood out
from the bright green surface and against the blue sky, I caught the
best and freshest type possible of the Venetian school. The sunshine
brought out the local colours with dazzling brilliancy, and the shades
even were so luminous, that, comparatively, they in their turn might
serve as lights. And the same may be said of the reflection from the
sea-green water. All was painted "chiaro nell chiaro," so that foamy
waves and lightning flashes were necessary to give it a grand finish
(_um die Tüpfchen auf sie zu setzen_).

Titian and Paul have this brilliancy in the highest degree, and
whenever we do not find it in any of their works, the piece is either
damaged or has been touched up.

The cupola and vaulting of St. Mark's, with its side-walls,--are
covered with paintings--a mass of richly colored figures on a golden
ground; all in mosaic work: some of them very good, others but poor,
according to the masters who furnished the cartoons.

Circumstances here have strangely impressed on my mind how everything
depends on the first invention, and that this constitutes the right
standard--the true genius--since with little square-pieces of glass
(and here not in the soberest manner), it is possible to imitate the
good as well as the bad. The art which furnished to the ancients
their pavements, and to the Christians the vaulted ceilings of their
churches, fritters itself away in our days on snuff-box lids and
bracelets-clasps. The present times are worse even than one thinks.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Venice, October 8_, 1786.

In the Farsetti palace there is a valuable collection of casts from the
best antiques. I pass over all such as I had seen before at Mannheim or
elsewhere, and mention only new acquaintances. A Cleopatra in intense
repose, with the asp coiled round her arm, and sinking into the sleep
of death;--a Niobe shrouding with her robe her youngest daughter from
the arrows of Apollo;--some gladiators;--a winged genius, resting in
his flight;--some philosophers, both in sitting and standing postures.

They are works from which, for thousands of years to come, the world
may receive delight and instruction, without ever being able to equal
with their thanks the merits of the artists.

Many speaking busts transported me to the old glorious times. Only I
felt, alas, how backward I am in these studies; however, I will go on
with them--at least I know the way. Palladio has opened the road for
me to this and every other art and life. That sounds probably somewhat
strange, and yet not so paradoxical as when Jacob Böhme says that, by
seeing a pewter platter by a ray from Jupiter, he was enlightened as to
the whole universe. There is also in this collection a fragment of the
entablature of the temple of Antoninus and Faustina in Rome.

The bold front of this noble piece of architecture reminded me of the
capitol of the Pantheon at Mannheim. It is, indeed, something very
different from our queer saints, piled up one above the other on little
consoles after the gothic style of decoration,--something different
from our tobacco-pipe-like shafts,--our little steeple-crowned towers,
and foliated terminals,--from all taste for these--I am now, thank God,
set free for ever!

I will further mention a few works of statuary, which, as I passed
along these last few days, I have observed with astonishment and
instruction: before the gate of the arsenal two huge lions of
white marble,-the one is half recumbent, raising himself up on his
fore-feet,--the other is lying down: noble emblems of the variety
of life. They are of such huge proportions, that all around appears
little, and man himself would become as nought, did not sublime objects
elevate him. They are of the best times of Greece, and were brought
here from the Piraeus in the better days of the Republic.

[Sidenote: Venice.]

From Athens, too, in all probability, came two bas-reliefs which have
been introduced in the church of St. Justina, the conqueress of the
Turks. Unfortunately they are in some degree hidden by the church
seats. The sacristan called my attention to them on account of the
tradition that Titian, modelled from them the beautiful angel in his
picture of the martyrdom of St. Peter. The relievos represent genii
who are decking themselves out with, the attributes of the gods,--so
beautiful in truth, as to transcend all idea or conception.

Next I contemplated with quite peculiar feelings the naked colossal
statue of Marcus Agrippa, in the court of a palace; a dolphin which is
twisting itself by his side, points out the naval hero. How does such a
heroic representation make the mere man equal to the gods!

I took a close view of the horses of S. Mark's. Looking up at them from
below, it is easy to see that they are spotted: in places they exhibit
a beautiful yellow-metallic lustre, in others a coppery green has run
over them. Viewing them more closely, one sees distinctly that once
they were gilt all over, and long streaks are still to be seen over
them, as the barbarians did not attempt to file off the gold, but tried
to cut it off. That, too, is well: thus the shape at least has been
preserved.

A glorious team of horses,--I should like to hear the opinion of a
good judge of horse-flesh. What seemed strange to me was, that closely
viewed, they appear heavy, while from the piazza below they look as
light as deer.

       *       *       *       *       *

_October 8_, 1786.

Yesterday I set out early with my tutelary genius for the "Lido," the
tongue of land which shuts in the lagunes, and divides them from the
sea. We landed and walked straight across the isthmus. I heard a loud
hollow murmur,--it was the sea! I soon saw it: it crested high against
the shore, as it retired,--it was about noon, and time of ebb. I have
then at last seen the sea with my own eyes, and followed it on its
beautiful bed, just as it quitted it. I wished the children had been
there to gather the shells; child-like I myself picked up plenty of
them; however, I attempted to make them useful; I tried to dry in them
some of the fluid of the cuttle fish, which here dart away from you in
shoals.

On the "Lido," not far from the sea, is the burial place of Englishmen,
and a little further on, of the Jews: both alike are refused the
privilege of resting in consecrated ground. I found here the tomb of
Smith, the noble English consul, and of his first wife. It is to him
that I owe my first copy of Palladio; I thanked him for it here in his
unconsecrated grave. And not only unconsecrated, but half buried is
the tomb. The "Lido" is at best but a sand-bank (_daune_): The sand is
carried from it backwards and forwards by the wind, and thrown up in
heaps is encroaching on every side. In a short time the monument, which
is tolerably high, will no longer be visible.

But the sea--it is a grand _sight!_ I will try and get a sail upon it
some day in a fishing-boat: the gondolas never venture out so far.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Oct._ 8, 1786.

On the sea-coast I found also several plants, whose characters
similar to others I already knew, enabled me to recognize pretty well
their properties. They are all alike, fat and strong-full of sap and
clammy,--and it is evident that the old salt of the sandy soil, but
still more the saline atmosphere, gives them these properties. Like
aquatic plants they abound in sap, and are fleshy and tough, like
mountainous ones; those whose leaves shew a tendency to put forth
prickles, after the manner of thistles, have them extremely sharp
and strong. I found a bush with leaves of this kind. It looked very
much like our harmless coltsfoot, only here it is armed with sharp
weapons,--the leaves like leather, as also are the seed-vessels, and
the stalk very thick and succulent. I bring with me seeds and specimens
of the leaves. (_Eryngium maritimum._)

The fish-market, with its numberless marine productions, afforded
me much amusement. I often go there to contemplate the poor captive
inhabitants of the sea.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Venice, Oct._ 9, 1786.

A delicious day from morning to night! I have been towards Chiozza, as
far as Pelestrina, where are the great structures, called _Murazzi_,
which the Republic has caused to be raised against the sea. They are of
hewn stone, and properly are intended to protect from the fury of the
wild element the tongue of land called the Lido, which separates the
lagoons from the sea.

[Sidenote: Venice.]

The lagunes are the work of old nature. First of all, the land and
tide, the ebb and flow, working against one another, and then the
gradual sinking of the primal waters, were, together, the causes why,
at the upper end of the Adriatic, we find a pretty extensive range of
marshes, which, covered by the flood-tide, are partly left bare by the
ebb. Art took possession of the highest spots, and thus arose Venice,
formed out of a groupe of a hundred isles, and surrounded by hundreds
more. Moreover, at an incredible expense of money and labour, deep
canals have been dug through the marshes, in order that at the time of
high water, ships of war might pass to the chief points. What human
industry and wit contrived and executed of old, skill and industry
must now keep up. The Lido, a long narrow strip of land, separates
the lagunes from the sea, which can enter only at two points--at the
castle and at the opposite end near Chiozza. The tide flows in usually
twice a-day, and with the ebb again carries out the waters twice, and
always by the same channel and in the same direction. The flood covers
the lower parts of the morass, but leaves the higher, if not dry, yet
visible.

The case would be quite altered were the sea to make new ways for
itself, to attack the tongue of land and flow in and out wherever
it chose. Not to mention that the little villages on the Lido,
Pelestrina, viz., S. Peter's and others would be overwhelmed, the
canals of communication would be choked up, and while the water
involved all in ruin, the Lido would be changed into an island, and the
islands which now lie behind it be converted into necks and tongues of
land. To guard against this it was necessary to protect the Lido as far
as possible, lest the furious element should capriciously attack and
overthrow what man had already taken possession of, and with a certain
end and purpose given shape and use to.

In extraordinary cases when the sea rises above measure, it is
especially necessary to prevent it entering at more than two points.
Accordingly the rest of the sluice-gates being shut, with all its
violence it is unable to enter, and in a few hours submits to the law
of the ebb, and its fury lessens.

Otherwise Venice has nothing to fear; the extreme slowness with which
the sea-line retires, assures to her thousands of years yet, and by
prudently deepening the canals from time to time, they will easily
maintain their possessions against the inroads of the water.

I could only wish that they kept their streets a little cleaner--a duty
which is as necessary as it is easy of performance, and which in fact
becomes of great consequence in the course of centuries. Even now in
the principal thoroughfares it is forbidden to throw anything into the
canals: the sweepings even of the streets may not be cast into them.
No measures, however, are taken to prevent the rain, which here falls
in sudden and violent torrents, from carrying off the dirt which is
collected in piles at the corner of every street, and washing it into
the lagunes--nay, what is still worse, into the gutters for carrying
off the water, which consequently are often so completely stopped up,
that the principal squares are in danger of being under water. Even in
the smaller piazza of S. Mark's, I have seen the gullies which are well
laid down there, as well as in the greater square, choked up and full
of water.

When a rainy day comes, the filth is intolerable; every one is cursing
and scolding. In ascending and descending the bridges one soils one's
mantle and great coat (_Tabarro_), which is here worn all the year
long, and as one goes along in shoes and silk stockings, one gets
splashed, and then scolds, for it is not common mud, but mud that
adheres and stains that one is here splashed with. The weather soon
becomes fine again, and then no one thinks of cleaning the streets. How
true is the saying: the public is ever complaining that is ill served,
and never knows how to set about getting better served. Here if the
sovereign-people wished it, it might be done forthwith.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Venice, Oct._ 9, 1786.

Yesterday evening I ascended the tower of S. Mark's: as I had lately
seen from its top the lagunes in their glory at flood time, I wished
also to see them at low water; for in order to have a correct idea
of the place, it is necessary to take in both views. It looks rather
strange to see land all around one, where a little before the eye fell
upon a mirror of waters. The islands are no longer islands--merely
higher and house-crowned spots in one large morass of a gray-greenish
colour, and intersected by beautiful canals. The marshy parts are
overgrown with aquatic plants, a circumstance which must tend in time
to raise their level, although the ebb and flow are continually shaking
and tossing them and leave no rest to the vegetation.

[Sidenote: Venice.]

I now turn with my narrative once more to the sea.--I there saw
yesterday the haunts of the sea-snails, the limpets, and the crab, and
was highly delighted with the sight. What a precious glorious object
is a living thing!--how wonderfully adapted to its state of existence,
how true, how _real_ (_seyend_). What great advantages do I not derive
now from my former studies of nature, and how delighted am I with the
opportunity of continuing them! But as the present is a matter that
admits of being communicated to my friends, I will not seek to excite
their sympathy merely by exclamations.

The stone-works which have been built against the inroads of the sea
consist first of all of several steep steps; then comes a slightly
inclined plane, then again they rise a step, which is once more
succeeded by a gently ascending surface, and last of all comes a
perpendicular wall with an overhanging coping--over these steps--over
these planes the raging sea rises until in extraordinary cases it even
dashes over the highest wall with its projecting head.

The sea is followed by its inhabitants;--little periwinkles good to
eat, monovalve limpets, and whatever else has the power of motion,
especially by the pungar-crabs. But scarcely have these little
creatures taken possession of the smooth walls, ere the sea retires
again, swelling and cresting as it came. At first the crowd knows not
where they are, and keep hoping that the briny flood will soon return
to them--but it still keeps away; the sun comes out and quickly dries
them up, and now begins the retreat. It is on these occasions that
the pungars seek their prey. Nothing more wonderful or comical can be
seen than the manœuvres of these little creatures, with their round
bodies and two long claws (for the other spider-feet are scarcely
worth noticing). On these stilted fore-legs, as it were, they stride
along watching the limpets, and as soon as one moves itself under its
shell on the rock, a pungar comes up and inserting the point of his
claw in the tiny interstice between the shell and the rock turns it
over, and so manages to swallow the oyster. The limpets, on the other
hand, proceed cautiously on their way, and by suction fasten themselves
firmly to the rocky surface as soon as they are aware of the proximity
of their foe. In such cases the pungar deports himself amusingly
enough; round and round the pulpy animal who keeps himself safe beneath
his roof will he go with singular politeness; but not succeeding with
all his coaxing and being unable to overcome its powerful muscle, he
leaves in despair this intended victim, and hastens after another who
may be wandering less cautiously on his way.

I never saw a crab succeed in his designs, although I have watched for
hours the retreat of the little troop as they crawled down the two
planes and the intermediate steps.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Venice, Oct. 10,_ 1786.

At last I am able to say that I have seen a comedy; Yesterday at the
theatre of St. Luke, was performed "_Le Baruffe-Chiozotte_," which
I should interpret the Frays and Feuds of Chiozza. The "_dramatis
personæ_," are principally seafaring people, inhabitants of
Chiozza, with their wives, sisters, and daughters. The usual noisy
demonstrations of such sort of people in their good or ill luck--their
dealings one with another, their vehemence, but goodness of heart,
common-place remarks and unaffected manners, their naïve wit and
humour--all this was excellently imitated. The piece, moreover, is
Goldoni's, and as I had been only the day before in the place itself,
and as the tones and manners of the sailors and people of the sea-port
still echoed in my ears and floated before my eyes, it delighted me
very much, and although I did not understand a single allusion, I was,
nevertheless, on the whole, able to follow it pretty well. I will now
give you the plan of the piece:--it opens with the females of Chiozza
sitting, as usual, on the strand before their cabins, spinning, mending
nets, sewing, or making lace; a youth passes by and notices one of them
with a more friendly greeting than the rest. Immediately the joking
begins--and observes no bounds; becoming tarter and tarter, and growing
ill-tempered it soon bursts out into reproaches; abuse vies with abuse;
in the midst of all one dame more vehement than the rest, bounces
out with the truth; and now an endless din of scolding, railing, and
screaming; there is no lack of more decided outrage, and at last the
peace-officers are compelled to interfere.

[Sidenote: Venice]

The second act opens with the Court of Justice. In the absence of
the _Podestà_ (who as a noble could not lawfully be brought upon the
stage) the _Actuarius_ presides. He orders the women to be brought
before him one by one. This gives rise to an interesting scene. It
happens that this official personage is himself enamoured of the first
of the combatants who is brought before him. Only too happy to have
an opportunity of speaking with her alone, instead of hearing what
she has to say on the matter in question, he makes her a declaration
of love. In the midst of it a second woman, who is herself in love
with the actuary, in a fit of jealousy rushes in, and with her the
suspicious lover of the first damsel--who is followed by all the rest,
and now the same demon of confusion riots in the court as a little
before, had set at loggerheads the people of the harbour. In the third
act the fun gets more and more boisterous, and the whole ends with a
hasty and poor denouement. The happiest thought, however, of the whole
piece, is a character who is thus drawn,--an old sailor who from the
hardships he has been exposed to from his childhood, trembles and
falters in all his limbs, and even in his very organs of speech, is
brought on the scene to serve as a foil to this restless, screaming,
and jabbering crew. Before he can utter a word, he has to make a long
preparation by a slow twitching of his lips, and an assistant motion
of his hands and arms; at last he blurts out what his thoughts are on
the matter in dispute. But as he can only manage to do this in very
short sentences, he acquires thereby a sort of laconic gravity, so that
all he utters sounds like an adage or maxim; and in this way a happy
contrast is afforded to the wild and passionate exclamations of the
other personages.

But even as it was, I never witnessed anything like the noisy delight
the people evinced at seeing themselves and their mates represented
with such truth of nature. It was one continued laugh and tumultuous
shout of exultation from beginning to end. I must, however, confess
that the piece was extremely well acted by the players. According
to the cast of their several parts, they had adopted among them the
different tones of voice which usually prevail among the inhabitants of
the place. The first actress was the universal favorite, more so even
than she had recently been in an heroic dress and a scene of passion.
The female players generally, but especially this one, in the most
pleasing manner possible imitated the twang, the manners, and other
peculiarities of the people they represented. Great praise is due
to the author, who out of nothing has here created the most amusing
_divertissement._ However, he never could have done it with any other
people than his own merry and lighthearted countrymen. The farce is
written throughout with a practised hand.

Of Sacchi's company, for whom Gozzi wrote (but which by-the-by is now
broken up), I saw _Smeraldina_, a short plump figure, full of life,
tact, and good humour. With her I saw _Brighella_--a slight well-made
man and an excellent actor, especially in pantomime. These masks which
we scarcely know except in the form of mummings, and which to our minds
possess neither life nor meaning, succeed here only too well as the
creation of the national taste. Here the most distinguished characters,
persons of every age and condition, think nothing of dressing
themselves out in the strangest costumes, and as for the greater part
of the year they are accustomed to wander about in masks, they feel no
surprise at seeing the black visors on the stage also.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Venice, October_ 11, 1786.

Since solitude, in the midst of a great crowd of human beings, is after
all not possible, I have taken up with an old Frenchman, who knows
nothing of Italian, and suspects that he is cheated on all hands and
taken advantage of, and who, with plenty of letters of recommendation,
nevertheless, does not make his way with the good people here. A man
of rank, and living in good style, but one whose mind cannot go beyond
himself and his own immediate circle--he is perhaps full fifty, and
has at home a boy seven years old, of whom he is always anxious to get
news. He is travelling through Italy for pleasure, but rapidly--in
order to be able to say that he has seen it, but is willing to learn
whatever is possible as he hurries along. I have shewn him some
civilities, and have given him information about many matters. While
I was speaking to him about Venice, he asked me how long I had been
here, and when he heard that this was my first visit, and that I had
only been here fourteen days, he replied: "_Il paraît que vous n'avez
pas perdu votre temps._" This is the first "testimonium" of my good
behaviour that I can furnish you. This is the eighth day since he
arrived here, and he leaves us to-morrow. It was highly delicious to
me, to meet in a strange land with such a regular Versailles'-man. He
is now about to quit me! It caused me some surprise to think that any
one could ever travel in this temper without a thought for anything
beyond himself, and yet he is in his way a polished, sensible, and well
conducted person.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Venice.]

_Venice, Oct._ 12, 1786.

Yesterday at S. Luke's a new piece was acted:--_L'Inglicismo in Italia_
(the English in Italy). As there are many Englishmen living in Italy,
it is not unnatural that their ways and habits should excite notice,
and I expected to learn from this piece what the Italians thought of
their rich and welcome visitors. But it was a total failure. There
were, of course, (as is always the case here,) some clever scenes
between buffoons, but the rest was cast altogether in too grave and
heavy a mould, and yet nob a trace of the English good sense: plenty of
the ordinary Italian commonplaces of morality, and those, too, upon the
very commonest of topics.

And it did not take: indeed, it was on the very point of being hissed
off the stage. The actors felt themselves out of their element--not on
the strand of Chiozza. As this was the last piece that I saw here, my
enthusiasm for these national representations did not seem likely to be
increased by this piece of folly.

As I have at last gone through my journal and entered some occasional
remarks from my tablets, my proceedings are now enrolled and left to
the sentence of my friends. There is, I am conscious, very much in
these leaves which I might qualify, enlarge upon, and improve. Let,
however, what is written, stand as the memorial of first impressions,
which, if not always correct, will nevertheless be ever dear and
precious to me. Oh that I could but transmit to my friends a breath
merely of this light existence! Verily to the Italian, "ultramontane"
is a very vague idea; and to me even--"beyond the Alps," rises very
obscurely before my mind, although from out of their mists friendly
forms are beckoning to me. It is the climate only that seduces me to
prefer awhile these lands to those; for birth and habit forge strong
fetters. Here, however, I could not live, nor indeed in any place where
I had nothing to occupy my mind; but at present novelty furnishes me
here with endless occupation. Architecture rises, like an ancient
spirit from the tombs, and bids me study its laws just as people do the
rules of a dead language, not in order to practise or to take a living
joy in them, but only in order to enable myself in the quiet depths of
my own mind to do honor to her existence in bygone ages, and her for
ever departed glory. As Palladio everywhere refers one to Vitruvius, I
have bought an edition of the latter by Galiani; but this folio suffers
in my portmanteau as much as my brain does in the study of it. Palladio
by his words and works, by his method and way, both of thinking and of
executing, has brought Vitruvius home to me and interpreted him far
better than the Italian translator ever can. Vitruvius himself is no
easy reading; his book is obscurely written, and requires a critical
study. Notwithstanding I have read it through cursorily, and it has
left on my mind many a glorious impression. To express my meaning
better: I read it like a breviary: more out of devotion, than for
instruction. Already the days begin to draw in and allow more time for
reading and writing.

God be praised! whatever from my youth up appeared to me of worth, is
beginning once more to be dear to me. How happy do I feel that I can
again venture to approach the ancient authors. For now, I may dare
tell it--and confess at once my disease and my folly. For many a long
year I could not bear to look at a Latin author, or to cast my eye
upon anything that might serve to awaken in my mind the thoughts of
Italy. If by accident I did so, I suffered the most horrible tortures
of mind. It was a frequent joke of Herder's at my expense, that I had
learned all my Latin from Spinoza, for he had noticed that this was
the only Latin work I ever read; but he was not aware how carefully I
was obliged to keep myself from the ancients--how even these abstruse
generalities were but cursorily read by me, and even then not without
pain. At last matters came to that pitch that even the perusal of
Wieland's translation of the Satires made me utterly wretched; scarcely
had I read two of them, before I was compelled to lay the book aside.

[Sidenote: Venice.]

Had I not made the resolve, which I am now carrying into effect, I
should have been altogether lost--to such a degree of intensity had
the desire grown to see these objects with my own eyes. Historical
acquaintance with them did me no good;--the things stood only a
hand's-breadth away from me; but still they were separated from me by
an impenetrable wall. And, in fact, at the present moment, I somehow
feel as if this were not the first time that I had seen these things,
but as if I were paying a second visit to them. Although I have been
but a short time in Venice, I have adapted myself pretty well to the
ways of the place, and feel confident that I shall carry away with me,
though a very incomplete, yet, nevertheless, clear and true idea of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Venice, Oct._ 14, 1786. _2 o'clock, morning._

In the last moments of my stay here: for I am to start almost
immediately with the packet-boat for Ferrara. I quit Venice without
reluctance; for to stay here longer with any satisfaction and profit to
myself, I must take other steps which would carry me beyond my present
plan. Besides everybody is now leaving this city and making for the
beautiful gardens and seats on the Terra-Firma; I, however, go away
well-loaded, and shall carry along with me its rich, rare, and unique
image.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM FERRARA TO ROME.

_Oct._ 16, 1786. _Early and on board the packet._

My travelling companions, male and female alike, are all still fast
asleep in their berths. For my part I have passed the two nights on
deck, wrapped up in my cloak. It was only towards morning that I felt
it at all cold. I am now actually in latitude forty-five, and yet go on
repeating my old song: I would gladly leave all to the inhabitants of
the land, if only, after the fashion of Dido, I could enclose enough
of the heavens to surround our dwellings with. It would then be quite
another state of existence. The voyage in this glorious weather has
been most delightful, the views and prospects simple but agreeable.
The Po, with its fertilizing stream, flows here through wide plains;
nothing, however, is to be seen but its banks covered with trees or
bushes;--you catch no distant view. On this river, as on the Adige, are
silly water-works, which are as rude and ill-constructed as those on
the Saal.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Ferrara, Oct._ 16, 1786. _At night._

Although I only arrived here early this morning (by 7 o'clock, German
time), I am thinking of setting off again to-morrow morning. For the
first time since I left home, a feeling of dissatisfaction has fallen
upon me in this great and beautiful, but flat and depopulated city.
These streets, now so desolate, were, however, once kept in animation
by a brilliant court. Here dwelt Ariosto discontented, and Tasso
unhappy, and so, we fancy, we gain edification by visiting such scenes.
Ariosto's monument contains much marble--ill arranged; for Tasso's
prison, they shew you a wood-house or coalhouse where, most assuredly,
he never was kept. Moreover, the people pretend to know scarcely
anything you may ask about. But at last for "something to drink" they
manage to remember. All this brings to my mind Luther's ink-spots,
which the housekeeper freshens up from time to time. Most travellers,
however, are little better than our "_Handwerksburschen_" or stolling
journeymen, and content themselves with such palpable signs. For my
part I became quite sulky, and took little interest even in a beautiful
institute and academy, which a cardinal, a native of Ferrara, founded
and endowed; however, some ancient monuments, in the Ducal Palace,
served to revive me a little; and I was put in perfect good humor by
a beautiful conception of a painter, John the Baptist before Herod
and Herodias. The prophet, in his well-known dress of the wilderness,
is pointing indignantly at Herodias. Quite unmoved, she looks at the
prince, who is sitting by her side, while the latter regards the
prophet with a calm but cunning look; a white middle-sized greyhound
stands before the king, while from beneath the robe of Herodias, a
small Italian one is peeping--both giving tongue at the prophet. To my
mind, this is a most happy thought.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Ferrara-Cento]

_Cento, Oct._ 17, 1786.

In a better temper than yesterday, I write you to-day from Guercino's
native city. It, however, is quite a different place: an hospitable
well-built little town, of nearly 5000 inhabitants, flourishing, full
of life, cleanly, and situated in a well cultivated plain, which
stretches farther than the eye can reach. According to my usual custom,
I ascended the tower. A sea of poplars, between which, and near at
hand, one caught glimpses of little country-houses, each surrounded
by its fields. A rich soil and a beautiful climate. It was an autumn
evening, such as we seldom have to thank even summer for. The sky,
which had been veiled all day, has cleared up, the clouds rolling off
north and south towards the mountains, and I hope for a bright day
to-morrow.

Here I first saw the Apennines, which I am approaching. The winter
in this region lasts only through December and January: April is
rainy--for the rest of the year beautiful weather, according to the
nature of the season. Incessant rain is unknown. September here, to
tell you the truth, was finer and warmer than August with you. The
Apennines in the south have received a warm greeting from me, for I
have now had enough of the plain. To-morrow I shall be writing at the
foot of them.

Guercino loved his native town: indeed, the Italians almost universally
cherish and maintain this sort of local patriotism, and it is to this
beautiful feeling that Italy owes so many of its valuable institutions
and its multitude of local sanctuaries. Under the management of this
master, an academy of painting was formed here. He left behind him
many paintings, which his townsmen are still very proud of, and which,
indeed, fully justify their pride.

Guercino is here a sacred name, and that, too, in the mouths of
children as well as of the old.

Most charmed was I with his picture, representing the risen Lord,
appearing to his mother. Kneeling before Him, she looks upon Him with
indescribable affection. Her left hand is touching His body just under
the accursed wound which mars the whole picture. His hand lies upon her
neck; and in order the better to gaze upon her, his body is slightly
bent back. This gives to His figure a somewhat strange, not to say
forced appearance. And yet for all that it is infinitely beautiful. The
calm and sad look, with which He contemplates her, is unique and seems
to convey the impression that before His noble soul there still floats
a remembrance of His own sufferings and of hers, which the resurrection
had not at once dispelled.

_Strange_ has engraved the picture. I wish that my friends could see
even his copy of it.

After it a Madonna won my admiration. The child wants the breast; she
modestly shrinks from exposing her bosom. Natural, noble, exquisite,
and beautiful.

Further, a Mary, who is guiding the arm of the infant Christ, standing
before her with His face towards the people, in order that with
uplifted fingers He may bestow His blessings upon them. Judged by the
spirit of the Roman Catholic legends, this must be pronounced a very
happy idea. It has been often repeated.

Guercino is an intrinsically bold, masculine, sensible painter, without
roughness. On the contrary, his pieces possess a certain tender moral
grace, a reposeful freedom and grandeur, but with all that, a certain
mannerism, so that when the eye once has grown accustomed to it, it is
impossible to mistake a piece of his hand. The lightness, cleanness,
and finish of his touch are perfectly astonishing. For his draperies
he is particularly fond of a beautiful brownish-red blend of colours.
These harmonize very well with the blue which he loves to combine with
them.

[Sidenote: Bologna.]

The subjects of the other paintings are more or less unhappily chosen.
The good artist has strained all his powers, but his invention and
execution alike are thrown away and wasted. However, I derived both
entertainment and profit from the view of this cycle of art, although
such a hasty and rapid glance as I could alone bestow upon them,
affords but little, either of gratification or instruction.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Bologna, Oct._ 18, 1786. _Night._

Yesterday I started very early--before daybreak--from Cento, and
arrived here in pretty good time. A brisk and well-educated cicerone
having learned that I did not intend to make a long stay here, hurried
me through all the streets, and into so many palaces and churches that
I had scarcely time to set down in my note-book the names of them, and
I hardly know if hereafter, when I shall look again at these scrawls, I
shall be able to call to mind all the particulars. I will now mention,
however, a couple or so of objects which stand out bright and clear
enough as they afforded me a real gratification at the time.

First of all the Cecilia of Raphael! It was exactly what I had been
told of it; but now I saw it with my own eyes. He has invariably
accomplished that which others wished in vain to accomplish, and I
would at present say no more of it than that it is by him. Five saints,
side by side, not one of them has anything in common with us; however
their existence, stands so perfectly real that one would wish for the
picture to last through eternity, even though for himself he could be
content to be annihilated. But in order to understand Raphael aright,
and to form a just appreciation of him, and not to praise him as a god
or as Melchisedec "without descent" or pedigree, it is necessary to
study his masters and his predecessors. These, too, had a standing
on the firm soil of truth; diligently, not to say anxiously, they had
laid the foundation, and vied with each other in raising, step by step,
the pyramid aloft, until, at last, profiting by all their labors, and
enlightened by a heavenly genius, Raphael set the last stone on the
summit, above which, or even at which, no one else can ever stand.

Our interest in the history of art becomes peculiarly lively when we
consider the works of the old masters. _Francesco Francia_ is a very
respectable artist. Pietro Perugino, so bold a man that one might
almost call him a noble German fellow. Oh that fate had carried Albert
Dürer further into Italy. In Munich I saw a couple of pieces by him of
incredible grandeur. The poor man, how did he mistake his own worth in
Venice, and make an agreement with the priests, on which he lost weeks
and months! See him in his journey through the Netherlands exchanging
his noble works of art for parrots, and in order to save his "douceur,"
drawing the portraits of the domestics, who bring him--a plate of
fruit. To me the history of such a poor fool of an artist is infinitely
touching.

Towards evening I got out of this ancient, venerable, and learned
city, and extricated myself from its crowds, who, protected from the
sun and weather by the arched bowers which are to be seen in almost
every street, walk about, gape about, or buy, and sell, and transact
whatever business they may have. I ascended the tower and enjoyed
the pure air. The view is glorious! To the north we see the hills of
Padua; beyond them the Swiss, Tyrolese, and Friulian Alps; in short,
the whole northern chain, which, at the time, was enveloped in mist.
Westward there stretched a boundless horizon, above which the towers
of Modena alone stood out. Towards the east a similar plain reaching
to the shores of the Adriatic, whose waters might be discerned in the
setting sun. Towards the south, the first hills of the Apennines,
which, like the Vicentine Hills, are planted up to their summits,
or covered with churches, palaces, and summer-houses. The sky was
perfectly clear, not a cloud to be seen, only on the horizon a kind of
haze. The keeper of the tower assured me that for six years this mist
had never left the distance. Otherwise, by the help of a telescope,
you might easily discern the hills of Vicenza, with their houses and
chapels, but now very rarely, even on the brightest days. And this mist
lay chiefly on the Northern Chain, and makes our beloved Fatherland
a regular Cimmeria. In proof of the salubrity of the situation and
pure atmosphere of the city, he called my notice to the fact, that the
roofs of the houses looked quite fresh, and that not a single tile
was attacked by damp or moss. It must be confessed that the tiles
look quite clean, and beautiful enough, but the good quality of the
brick-earth may have something to do with this; at least we know that,
in ancient times, excellent tiles were made in these parts.

[Sidenote: Bologna.]

The leaning tower has a frightful look, and yet it is most probable
that it was built so by design. The following seems to me the
explanation of this absurdity. In the disturbed times of the city every
large edifice was a fortress, and every powerful family had its tower.
By and bye the possession of such a building became a mark of splendour
and distinction, and as, at last, a perpendicular tower was a common
and every-day tiling, an oblique one was built. Both architect and
owner have obtained their object; the multitude of slender, upright
towers are just looked at, and all hurry to see the leaning one.
Afterwards I ascended it. The bricks are all arranged horizontally.
With clamps and good cement one may build any mad whim.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Bologna, Oct._ 19, 1786.

I have spent this day to the best advantage I could in visiting and
revisiting; but it is with art as with the world: the more we study
it the larger we find it. In this heaven new stars are constantly
appearing which I cannot count, and which sadly puzzle me; the
Carracci, a Guido, a Domenichino, who shone forth in a later and
happier period of art, but truly to enjoy whom requires both knowledge
and judgment which I do not possess, and which cannot be acquired in a
hurry. A great obstacle to our taking a pure delight in their pictures,
and to an immediate understanding of their merits, is the absurd
subjects of most of them. To admire or to be charmed with them one must
be a madman.

It is as though the sons of God had wedded with the daughters of men,
and out of such an union many a monster had sprung into existence. No
sooner are you attracted by the _gusto_ of a Guido and his pencil, by
which nothing but the most excellent objects the eye sees are worthy
to be painted, but you, at once, withdraw your eyes from a subject so
abominably stupid that the world has no term of contempt sufficient to
express its meanness; and so it is throughout. It is ever anatomy--an
execution--a flaying scene-always some suffering, never an action of
the hero-never an interest in the scene before you-always something for
the fancy--some excitement accruing from without. Nothing but deeds of
horror or convulsive sufferings, malefactors or fanatics, along side
of whom the artist, in order to save his art, invariably slips in a
naked boy or a pretty damsel as a spectator, in every case treating his
spiritual heroes as little better than lay-figures (_gliedermanner_),
on which to hang some beautiful mantle with its folds. In all there is
nothing that suggests a human notion! Scarcely one subject in ten that
ever ought to have been painted, and that one the painter has chosen to
view from any but the right point of view.

Guido's great picture in the Church of the Mendicants is all that
painting can do, but, at the same time, all that absurdity could task
an artist with. It is a votive piece. I can well believe that the whole
consistory praised it, and also devised it. The two angels, who were
fit to console a Psyche in her misery, must here ....

The S. Proclus is a beautiful figure, but the others--bishops and
popes! Below are heavenly children playing with attributes. The
painter, who had no choice left him, laboured to help himself as
best he could. He exerted himself merely to show that he was not the
barbarian. Two naked figures by Guido; a St. John in the Wilderness; a
Sebastian, how exquisitely painted, and what do they say? the one is
gaping and the other wriggling.

Were I to contemplate history in my present ill humor, I should say,
Faith revived art, but Superstition immediately made itself master of
it, and ground it to the dust.

After dinner, seeming somewhat of a milder temper and less arrogantly
disposed than in the morning, I entered the following remarks in my
note-book. In the palace of the Tanari there is a famous picture by
Guido, the Virgin suckling the infant Saviour--of a size rather larger
than life--the head as if a god had painted it,--indescribable is the
expression with which she gazes upon the sucking infant. To me it seems
a calm, profound resignation, as if she were nourishing not the child
of her joy and love, but a supposititious, heavenly changeling; and
goes on suckling it because now she cannot do otherwise, although, in
deep humility, she wonders how she ever came to do it. The rest of the
canvass is filled up with a mass of drapery which connoisseurs highly
prize. For my part I know not what to make of it. The colours, too, are
somewhat dim; the room and the day were none of the brightest.

Notwithstanding the confusion in which I find myself I yet feel that
experience, knowledge, and taste, already come to my aid in these
mazes. Thus I was greatly won by a "Circumcision" by Guercino, for I
have begun to know and to understand the man. I can now pardon the
intolerable subject and delight in the masterly execution. Let him
paint whatever can be thought of, everything will be praiseworthy and
as highly finished as if it were enamel.

[Sidenote: Bologna.]

And thus it happened with me as with Balaam the over-ruled prophet, who
blessed where he thought to curse; and I fear this would be the case
still oftener were I to stay here much longer.

And then, again, if one happens to meet with a picture after Raphael,
or what may with at least some probability be ascribed to him, one is
soon perfectly cured and in good temper again. I fell in yesterday with
a S. Agatha, a rare picture, though not throughout in good keeping. The
artist has given to her the mien of a young maiden full of health and
self-possession, but yet without rusticity or coldness. I have stamped
on my mind both her form and look, and shall mentally read before her
my "Iphigenia," and shall not allow my heroine to express a sentiment
which the saint herself might not give utterance to.

And now when I think again of this sweet burden which I carry with
me throughout my wanderings, I cannot conceal the fact that, besides
the great objects of nature and art, which I have yet to work my way
through, a wonderful train of poetical images keeps rising before me
and unsettling me. From Cento to this place I have been wishing to
continue my labors on the Iphigenia, but what has happened? inspiration
has brought before my mind the plan of an "Iphigenia at Delphi," and
I must work it out. I will here set down the argument as briefly as
possible.

Electra, confidently hoping that Orestes will bring to Delphi the image
of the Taurian Diana, makes her appearance in the Temple of Apollo,
and as a final sin-offering dedicates to the god, the axe which has
perpetrated so many horrors in the house of Pelops. Unhappily she is,
at this moment, joined by a Greek, who recounts to her how, having
accompanied Pylades and Orestes to Tauris, he there saw the two friends
led to execution, but had himself luckily made his escape. At this news
the passionate Electra is unable to restrain herself, and knows not
whether to vent her rage against the gods or against men.

In the mean time Iphigenia, Orestes, and Pylades have arrived at
Delphi. The heavenly calmness of Iphigenia contrasts remarkably with
the earthly vehemence of Electra, as the two sisters meet without
knowing each other. The fugitive Greek gains sight of Iphigenia, and
recognizing in her the priestess, who was to have sacrificed the two
friends, makes it known to Electra. The latter snatching the axe from
the altar, is on the point of killing Iphigenia, when a happy incident
averts this last fearful calamity from the two sisters. This situation,
if only I can succeed in working it out well, will probably furnish
a scene unequalled for grandeur or pathos by any that has yet been
produced on the stage. But where is man to get time and hands for such
a work, even if the spirit be willing.

As I feel myself at present somewhat oppressed with such a flood of
thoughts of the good and desirable, I cannot help reminding my friends
of a dream which I had about a year ago, and which appeared to me to be
highly significant. I dreamt forsooth, that I had been sailing about
in a little boat and had landed on a fertile and richly cultivated
island, of which I had a consciousness that it bred the most beautiful
pheasants in the world. I bargained, I thought, with the people of the
island for some of these birds, and they killed and brought them to
me in great numbers. They were pheasants indeed, but as in dreams all
things are generally changed and modified, they seemed to have long,
richly coloured tails, like the loveliest birds of Paradise, and with
eyes like those of the peacock. Bringing them to me by scores, they
arranged them in the boat so skilfully with the heads inwards, the long
variegated feathers of the tail hanging outwards, as to form in the
bright sunshine the most glorious pile conceivable, and so large as
scarcely to leave room enough in the bow and the stern for the rower
and the steersman. As with this load the boat made its way through the
tranquil waters, I named to myself the friends among whom I should
like to distribute those variegated treasures. At last, arriving in
a spacious harbour, I was almost lost among great and many masted
vessels, as I mounted deck after deck in order to discover a place
where I might safely run my little boat ashore.

Such dreamy visions have a charm, inasmuch, as springing from our
mental state, they possess more or less of analogy with the rest of our
lives and fortunes.

       *       *       *       *       *

But now I have also been to the famed scientific building, called the
Institution or "Gli Studj." The edifice is large, and the inner court
especially has a very imposing appearance, although not of the best
style of architecture. In the staircases and corridors there was no
want of stuccoes and frescoes: they are all appropriate and suitable,
and the numerous objects of beauty, which, well worth seeing, are
here collected together, justly command our admiration. For all that,
however, a German, accustomed to a more liberal course of study than is
here pursued, will not be altogether content with it.

Here again a former thought occurred to me, and I could not but reflect
on the pertinacity which in spite of time, which changes all things,
man shows in adhering to the old shapes of his public buildings, even
long after they have been applied to new purposes. Our churches still
retain the form of the Basilica, although probably the plan of the
temple would better suit our worship. In Italy the courts of justice
are as spacious and lofty as the means of a community are able to
make them. One can almost fancy oneself to be in the open air, where
once justice used to be administered. And do we not build our great
theatres with their offices under a roof exactly similar to those
of the first theatrical booths of a fair, which were hurriedly put
together of planks? The vast multitude of those in whom, about the
time of the Reformation, a thirst for knowledge was awakened, obliged
the scholars at our universities to take shelter as they could in the
burghers houses, and it was very long before any colleges for pupils
(_Waisenhäuser_), were built, thereby facilitating for the poor youths
the acquirement of the necessary education for the world.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have spent the whole of this bright and beautiful day under the open
heaven: scarcely do I ever come near a mountain, but my interest in
rocks and stones again revives. I feel as did Antæus of old, who found
himself endued with new strength, as often as he was brought into fresh
contact with his mother earth. I rode towards Palermo, where is found
the so-called Bolognese sulphate of Barytes, out of which are made the
little cakes which, being calcined, shine in the dark, if previously
they have been exposed to the light, and which the people here call
shortly and expressively "fosfori."

On the road, after leaving behind me a hilly track of argillaceous
sandstone, I came upon whole rocks of selenite, quite visible on the
surface. Near a brickkiln a cascade precipitates its waters, into which
many smaller ones also empty themselves. At first sight the traveller
might suppose he saw before him a loamy hill, which had been worn away
by the rain; on a closer examination I discovered its true nature
to be as follows:--the solid rock of which this part of the line of
hills consists is schistous, bituminous clay of very fine strata, and
alternating with gypsum. The schistous stone is so intimately blended
with pyrites that, exposed to the air and moisture, it wholly changes
its nature. It swells, the strata gradually disappear, and there is
formed a kind of potter's clay, crumbling, shelly, and glittering on
the surface like stone-coal. It is only by examining large pieces of
both (I myself broke several, and observed the forms of both), that
it is possible to convince oneself of the transition and change. At
the same time we observed the shelly strata studded with white points,
and occasionally also variegated with yellow particles. In this way,
by degrees, the whole surface crumbles away, and the hill looks like
a mass of weather-worn pyrites on a large scale. Among the lamina
some are harder, of a green and red color. Pyrites I very often found
disseminated in the rock.

I now passed along the channels which the last violent gullies of rain
had worn in the crumbling rock, and to my great delight found many
specimens of the desired barytes, mostly of an imperfect egg-shape,
peeping out in several places of the friable stone, some tolerably
pure, and some slightly mingled with the clay in which they were
imbedded. That they have not been carried hither by external agency
any one may convince himself at the first glance; whether they were
contemporaneous with the schistous clay, or whether they first arose
from the swelling and dissolving of the latter, is matter calling for
further inquiry. Of the specimens I found, the larger and smaller
approximated to an imperfect egg-shape; the smallest might be said to
verge upon irregular crystalline forms. The heaviest of the pieces I
brought away weighed seventeen loth (81/2 oz.) Loose in the same clay,
I also found perfect crystals of gypsum. Mineralogists will be able to
point out further peculiarities in the specimens I bring with me. And
I was now again loaded with stones! I have packed up at least half a
quarter of a hundred-weight.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Bologna-Legano.]

_Oct._ 20, 1786, _in the night._

How much should I have still to say, were I to attempt to confess to
you all that in this beautiful day has passed through my mind. But
my wishes are more powerful than my thoughts. I feel myself hurried
irresistibly forward; it is only with an effort that I can collect
myself sufficiently to attend to what is before me. And it seems as if
heaven heard my secret prayer. Word has just been brought me that there
is a vetturino going straight to Rome, and so the day after to-morrow
I shall set out direct for that city; I must, therefore, to-day and
to-morrow, look after my affairs, make all my little arrangements, and
despatch my many commissions.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Legano on the Apennines_, _Oct._ 21, 1786.

Whether I have to-day left Bologna, or whether I have been driven out
of it, I cannot say. Enough that I eagerly availed myself of an earlier
opportunity of quitting it. And so here I am at a wretched inn, in
company with an officer of the Pope's army, who is going to Perugia,
where he was born. In order to say something as I seated myself by
his side in the two-wheeled carriage, I paid him the compliment of
remarking, that as a German accustomed to associate with soldiers,
I found it very agreeable to have to travel with an officer of the
Pope. "Pray do not," he replied, "be offended at what I am about
to answer--it is all very well for you to be fond of the military
profession, for, in Germany, as I have heard, everything is military;
but with regard to myself, although our service is light enough, so
that in Bologna, where I am in garrison, I can do just as I like,
still I heartily wish I were rid of this jacket, and had the disposal
of my father's little property. But I am a younger son and so must be
content."

       *       *       *       *       *

_Oct._ 22, 1786. _Evening._

Here, at Ciredo, which also is a little paltry place on the Apennines,
I feel myself quite happy, knowing that I am advancing towards the
gratification of my dearest wishes. To-day we were joined by a riding
party--a gentleman and a lady--an Englishman and a soi-disant sister.
Their horses are beautiful, but they ride unattended by any servants,
and the gentleman, as it appears, acts the part both of groom and valet
de chambre. Everywhere they find something to complain of--to listen to
them is like reading a few pages out of Archenholz's book.

To me the Apennines are a most remarkable portion of the world. The
great plains of the basin of the Po are followed by a hilly tract
which rises out of the bottom, in order, after running between the two
seas, to form the southern extremity of the Continent. If the hills
had been not quite so steep and high above the level of the sea, and
had not their directions crossed and recrossed each other as they do,
the ebb and flow of the tides in primeval times might have exercised
a greater and wider influence on them, and might have washed over and
formed extensive plains, in which case this would have been one of the
most beautiful regions of this glorious clime--somewhat higher than the
rest of it. As it is, however, it is a strong net of mountain ridges,
interlacing each other in all directions--one often is puzzled to know
whither the waters will find their vent. If the valleys were better
filled up, and the bottoms flatter and more irrigated, the land might
be compared to Bohemia, only that the mountains have in every respect
a different character. However, it must not for one moment be thought
of as a mountainous waste, but as a highly cultivated though hilly
district. The chestnut grows very fine here; the wheat excellent, and
that of this year's sowing, is already of a beautiful green. Along the
roads are planted ever-green oaks with their small leaves, but around
the churches and chapels the slim cypress.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Perugia, October,_ 25, 1786. _Evening._

For two evenings I have not written. The inns on the road were so
wretchedly bad that it was quite useless to think of bringing out
a sheet of paper. Moreover, I begin to be a little puzzled to find
anything, for since quitting Venice the travelling bag has got more and
more into confusion.

Early in the morning (at 23 o'clock, or about 10 of our reckoning)
we left the region of the Apennines and saw Florence in an extensive
valley, which is highly cultivated and sprinkled over with villas and
houses without end.

I ran rapidly over the city, the cathedral, the baptistery. Here again
a perfectly new and unknown world opened upon me, on which, however, I
will not further dwell. The gardens of the Botoli are most delightfully
situated. I hastened out of them as fast as I had entered them.

In the city we see the proof of the prosperity of the generations who
built it; the conviction is at once forced upon us that they must
have enjoyed a long succession of wise rulers. But above all one is
struck with the beauty and grandeur which distinguish all the public
works, and roads, and bridges in Tuscany. Everything here is at once
substantial and clean; use and profit not less than elegance are alike
kept in view, everywhere we discern traces of the care which is taken
to v preserve them. The cities of the Papal States on the contrary only
seem to stand, because the earth is unwilling to swallow them up.

The sort of country that I lately remarked, the region of the
Apennines, might have been, is what Tuscany really is. As it lies so
much lower the ancient sea was able to do its duty properly, and has
thrown up here deep beds of excellent mark. It is a light yellow hue
and easily worked. They plough deep, retaining, however, most exactly
the ancient manner. Their ploughs have no wheels, and the share is not
moveable. Bowed down behind his oxen the peasant pushes it down into
the earth, and turns up the soil. They plough over a field as many as
five times, and use but little dung, which they scatter with the hands.
After this they sow the corn. Then they plough together two of the
smaller ridges into one, and so form deep trenches of such a nature
that the rain-water easily runs off the lands into them. When the corn
is grown up on the ridges, they can also pass along these trenches in
order to weed it. This way of tilling is a very sensible one, wherever
there is a fear of over-moisture; but why it is practised on these
rich, open plains I cannot understand. This remark I just made at
Arezzo, where a glorious plain expands itself. It is impossible to find
cleaner fields anywhere, not even a lump of earth is to be seen; all is
as fine as if it had been sifted. Wheat thrives here most luxuriantly,
and the soil seems to possess all the qualities required by its nature.
Every second year beans are planted for the horses, who in this country
get no oats. Lupins are also much cultivated, which at this season are
beautifully green, being ripe in March. The flax, too, is up; it stands
the winter, and is rendered more durable by frost.

The olive-trees are strange plants. They look very much like willows;
like them also they lose the heart of the wood and the bark splits.
But still they have a greater appearance of durability; and one sees
from the wood, of which the grain is extremely fine, that it is a slow
grower. The foliage, too, resembles that of the willow, only the leaves
on the branches are thinner. All the hills around Florence are covered
with olive-trees and vines, between which grain is sown, so that every
spot of ground may be made profitable. Near Arezzo and farther on,
the fields are left more free. I observed that they take little care
to eradicate the ivy which is so injurious to the olive and the vine,
although it would be so easy to destroy it. There is not a meadow to
be seen. It is said that the Indian corn exhausts the soil; since it
has been introduced, agriculture has suffered in its other crops. I can
well believe it with their scanty manuring.

Yesterday I took leave of my Captain, with a promise of visiting him
at Bologna on my return. He is a true representative of the majority
of his countrymen. Here, however, I would record a peculiarity which
personally distinguished him. As I often sat quiet and lost in thought
he once exclaimed "_Che pensa? non deve mai pensar l'uomo, pensando
s'invecchia_;" which being interpreted is as much as to say, "What are
you thinking about; a man ought never to think; thinking makes one
old." And now for another apophthegm of his; "_Non deve fermarsi l'uomo
in una sola cosa, perche allora divien matto; bisogna aver mille cose,
una confusione nella testa_;" in plain English, "A man ought not to
rivet his thoughts exclusively on any one thing, otherwise he is sure
to go mad; he ought to have in his head a thousand things, a regular
medley."

[Sidenote: A papal soldier's ideas of protestants.]

Certainly the good man could not know that the very thing that made me
so thoughtful was my having my head mazed by a regular confusion of
things, old and new. The following anecdote will serve to elucidate
still more clearly the mental character of an Italian of this class.
Having soon discovered that I was a Protestant, he observed, after
some circumlocution, that he hoped I would allow him to ask me a few
questions, for he had heard such strange things about us Protestants
that he wished to know for a certainty what to think of us. "May you,"
he said, "live with a pretty girl without being married to her? do your
priests allow you to do that? To this I replied, that our priests are
prudent folk who take no notice of such trifles. No doubt if we were
to consult them upon such a matter they would not permit it." "Are you
not then obliged to ask them?" He exclaimed; "Happy fellows! as they
do not confess you, they do not of course find it out." Hereupon he
gave vent, in many reproaches to his discontent with his own priests,
uttering at the same time loud praises of our liberty. "But," he
continued, "as regards confession; how stands it with you? We are told
that all men, even if they are not Christians, must confess; but that
inasmuch as many, from their obduracy, are debarred from the right
way, they nevertheless make confession to an old tree; which indeed is
impious and ridiculous enough, but yet serves to show that, at least,
they recognize the necessity of confession." Upon this I explained to
him our Lutheran notions of confession, and our practice concerning it.
All this appeared to him very easy; for he expressed an opinion that it
was almost the same as confessing to a tree. After a brief hesitation,
he begged of me very gravely to inform him correctly on another point.
He had, forsooth, heard from the mouth of his own confessor, (who, he
said, was a truthful man,) that we Protestants are at liberty to marry
our own sisters, which assuredly is a "chose un peu forte." As I denied
this fact, and attempted to give him a more favourable opinion of our
doctrine, he made no special remark on the latter, which evidently
appeared to him a very ordinary and every-day sort of a thing; but
turned aside my remarks by a new question. "We have been assured," he
observed, "that Frederick the Great, who has won so many victories,
even over the faithful, and filled the world with his glory--that he
whom every one takes to be a heretic is really a Catholic, and has
received a dispensation from the Pope to keep the fact secret. For
while, as is well known, he never enters any of your churches, he
diligently attends the true worship in a subterranean chapel, though
with a broken heart, because he dare not openly avow the holy religion,
since were he to do so, his Prussians, who are a British people and
furious heretics, would no doubt murder him on the instant;--and to
risk that would do no good to the cause. On these grounds the Holy
Father has given him permission to worship in secret, in return for
which he quietly does as much as possible to propagate and to favour
the true and only saving faith." I allowed all this to pass, merely
observing, as it was so great a secret no one could be a witness to its
truth. The rest of our conversation was nearly of the same cast, so
that I could not but admire the wise priests who sought to parry, and
to distort whatever was likely to enlighten or vary the dark outline of
their traditional dogmas.

I left Perugia on a glorious morning, and felt the happiness of being
once more alone. The site of the city is beautiful, and the view of
the lake in the highest degree refreshing. These scenes are deeply
impressed on my memory. At first the road went downwards, then it
entered a cheerful valley, enclosed on both sides by distant hills,
till at last Assisi lay before us.

Here, as I had learned from Palladio and Volckmann, a noble temple of
Minerva, built in the time of Augustus, was still standing in perfect
repair. At _Madonna del Angelo_, therefore, I quitted my _vetturino_,
leaving him to proceed by himself to Foligno, and set off in the face
of a strong wind for Assisi, for I longed for a foot journey through
a country so solitary for me. I left on my left the vast mass of
churches, piled Babel-wise one over another, in one of which rest the
remains of the holy S. Francis of Assisi,--with aversion, for I thought
to myself, that the people who assembled in them were mostly of the
same stamp with my captain and travelling companion. Having asked of
a good-looking youth the way to the _della Minerva_, he accompanied
me to the top of the town, for it lies on the side of a hill. At last
we reached what is properly the old town, and behold before my eyes
stood the noble edifice, the first complete memorial of antiquity
that I had ever seen. A modest temple, as befitting so small a town,
and yet so perfect, so well conceived, that anywhere it would be an
ornament. Moreover, in these matters, how grand were the ancients in
the choice of their sites. The temple stands about half way up the
mountain, where two hills meet on the level place, which is to this day
called the Piazza. This itself slightly rises, and is intersected by
the meeting of four roads, which make a somewhat dilated S. Andrew's
Cross. In all probability the houses which are now opposite the temple,
and block up the view from it, did not stand there in ancient times.
If they were removed, we should have a south prospect over a rich and
fertile country, and at the same time the temple of Minerva would be
visible from all sides. The line of the roads is, in all probability,
very ancient since they follow the shape and inclination of the hill,
The temple does not stand in the centre of the flat, but its site is
so arranged that the traveller approaching from Rome, catches a fine
fore-shortened view of it. To give an idea of it, it is necessary to
draw not only the building itself but also its happily-chosen site.

Looking at the façade, I could not sufficiently admire the genius-like
identity of design which the architects have here, as elsewhere,
maintained. The order is Corinthian, the inter-columnar spaces being
somewhat above two modules. The bases of the columns and the plinths
seem to rest on pedestale, but it is only an appearance. The socle is
cut through in five places, and at each of these, five steps ascend
between the columns, and bring you to a level, on which properly the
columns rest, and from which also you enter the temple. The bold idea
of cutting through the socle was happily hazarded; for, as the temple
is situated on a hill, the flight of steps must otherwise have been
earned up to such a height as would have inconveniently narrowed the
area of the temple. As it is, however, it is impossible to determine
how many steps there originally were; for, with the exception of a very
few, they are all choked up with dirt or paved over. Most reluctantly
did I tear myself from the sight, and determined to call the attention
of architects to this noble edifice, in order that an accurate draught
of it may be furnished. For what a sorry thing tradition is, I here
again find occasion to remark. Palladio, whom I trust in every matter,
gives indeed a sketch of this temple, but certainly he never can have
seen it himself, for he gives it real pedestals above the area, by
which means the columns appear disproportionately high, and the result
is a sort of unsightly Palmyrene monstrosity, whereas, in fact, its
look is so full of repose and beauty as to satisfy both the eye and the
mind. The impression which the sight of this edifice left upon me is
not to be expressed, and will bring forth imperishable fruits. It was a
beautiful evening, and I now turned to descend the mountain. As I was
proceeding along the Roman road, calm and composed, suddenly I heard
behind me some rough voices in dispute; I fancied that it was only the
Sbirri, whom I had previously noticed in the town. I, therefore, went
on without care, but still with my ears listening to what they might be
saying behind me. I soon became aware that I was the object of their
remarks. Four men of this body (two of whom were armed with guns,)
passed me in the rudest way possible, muttering to each other, and
turning back, after a few steps, suddenly surrounded me. They demanded
my name, and what I was doing there. I said that I was a stranger,
and had travelled on foot to Assisi, while my vetturino had gone on
to Foligno. It appeared to them very improbable, that any one should
pay for a carriage and yet travel by foot. They asked me if I had been
visiting the "Gran Convento." I answered "no;" but assured them that
I knew the building of old, but being an architect, my chief object
this time was simply to gain a sight of the Maria della Minerva, which
they must be aware was an architectural model. This they could not
contradict, but seemed to take it very ill that I had not paid a visit
to the Saint, and avowed their suspicion that my business in fact was
to smuggle contraband goods. I pointed out to them how ridiculous it
was that a man who walked openly through the streets alone, and without
packs and with empty pockets, should be taken for a contrabandist.

[Sidenote: Assisi--an adventure.]

However, upon this I offered to return to the town with them, and to go
before the Podestà, and by showing my papers prove to him that I was
an honest traveller. Upon this they muttered together for a while, and
then expressed their opinion that it was unnecessary, and, as I behaved
throughout with coolness and gravity, they at last left me, and turned
towards the town. I looked after them. As these rude churls moved on in
the foreground, behind them the beautiful temple of Minerva once more
caught my eye, to soothe and console me with its sight. I turned then
to the left to look at the heavy cathedral of S. Francisco, and was
about to continue my way, when one of the unarmed Sbirri, separating
himself from the rest, came up to me in a quiet and friendly manner.
Saluting me, he said, Signior Stranger, you ought at least to give me
something to drink your health, for I assure you, that from the very
first I took you to be an honourable man, and loudly maintained this
opinion in opposition to my comrades. They, however, are hot-headed and
over-hasty fellows, and have no knowledge of the world. You yourself
must have observed, that I was the first to allow the force of, and to
assent to, your remarks. I praised him on this score, and urged him
to protect all honourable strangers, who might henceforward come to
Assisi for the sake either of religion or of art, and especially all
architects, who might wish to do honour to the town, by measuring, and
sketching the temple of Minerva, since a correct drawing or engraving
of it had never yet been taken. If he were to accompany them, they
would, I assured him, give him substantial proofs of their gratitude,
and with these words I poured some silver into his hand, which, as
exceeding his expectation, delighted him above measure. He begged me
to pay a second visit to the town, remarking that I ought not on any
account to miss the festival of the Saint, on which. I might with
the greatest safety delight and amuse myself. In-deed if, being a
good-looking fellow, I should wish to be introduced to the fair sex,
he assured me that the prettiest and most respectable ladies would
willingly receive me or any stranger, upon his recommendation. He took
his leave, promising to remember me at vespers before the tomb of the
Saint, and to offer up a prayer for my safety throughout my travels.
Upon this we parted, and most delighted was I to be again alone with
nature and myself. The road to Foligno was one of the most beautiful
and agreeable walks that I ever took. For four full hours I walked
along the side of a mountain, having on my left a richly cultivated
valley.

It is but sorry travelling with a _vetturino_, it is always best
to follow at one's ease on foot. In this way had I travelled from
Ferrara to this place. As regards the arts and mechanical invention,
on which however the ease and comforts of life mainly depend, Italy,
so highly favoured by nature, is very far behind all other countries.
The carriage of the vetturino, which is still called sedia, or seat,
certainly took its origin from the ancient litters drawn by mules, in
which females and aged persons, or the highest dignitaries, used to be
carried about. Instead of the hinder mule, on whose yoke the shafts
used to rest, two wheels have been placed beneath the carriage, and
no further improvement has been thought of. In this way one is still
jolted along, just as they were centuries ago; it is the same with
their houses and everything else.

If one wishes to see realised the poetic idea of men in primeval
times, spending most of their lives beneath the open heaven, and only
occasionally, when compelled by necessity, retiring for shelter into
the caves, one must visit the houses hereabouts, especially those in
the rural districts, which are quite in the style and fashion of caves.
Such an incredible absence of care do the Italians evince, in order not
to grow old by thinking. With unheard of frivolity, they neglect to
make any preparation for the long nights of winter, and in consequence,
for a considerable portion of the year, suffer like dogs. Here, in
Foligno, in the midst of a perfectly Homeric household, the whole
family being gathered together in a large hall, round a fire on the
hearth, with plenty of running backwards and forwards and of scolding
and shouting, while supper is going on at a long table like that in the
picture of the Wedding Feast at Cana, I seize an opportunity of writing
this, as one of the family has ordered an inkstand to be brought
me,--a luxury which, judging from other circumstances, I did not look
for. These pages, however, tell too plainly of the cold and of the
inconvenience of my writing table.

In fact I am now made only too sensible of the rashness of travelling
in this country without a servant, and without providing oneself
well with every necessary. What with the ever-changing currency, the
_vetturini_, the extortion, the wretched inns, one who, like myself,
is travelling alone, for the first time in this country, hoping to
find uninterrupted pleasure, will be sure to find himself miserably
disappointed every day. However, I wished to see the country at any
cost, and even if I must be dragged to Rome on Ixion's wheel, I shall
not complain.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Terni, Oct._ 27, 1786. _Evening._

Again sitting in a "cave," which only a year before suffered from
an earthquake. The little town lies in the midst of a rich country,
(for taking a circuit round the city I explored it with pleasure,) at
the beginning of a beautiful plain which lies between two ridges of
lime-stone hills. Terni, like Bologna, is situated at the foot of the
mountain range.

[Sidenote: Terni.]

Almost ever since the papal officer left me I have had a priest for
my companion. The latter appears better contented with his profession
than the soldier, and is ready to enlighten me, whom he very soon
saw to be an heretic, by answering any question I might put to him
concerning the ritual and other matters of his church. By thus mixing
continually with new characters I thoroughly obtain my object. It is
absolutely necessary to hear the people talking together, if you would
form a true and lively image of the whole country. The Italians are in
the strangest manner possible rivals and adversaries of each other;
everyone is strongly enthusiastic in the praise of his own town and
state; they cannot bear with one another, and even in the same city the
different ranks nourish perpetual feuds, and all this with a profoundly
vivacious and most obvious passionateness, so that while they expose
one another's pretensions, they keep up an amusing comedy all day long;
and yet they come to an understanding again together, and seem quite
aware how impossible it is for a stranger to enter into their ways and
thoughts.

I ascended to Spoleto and went along the aqueduct, which serves also
for a bridge from one mountain to another. The ten brick arches which
span the valley, have quietly stood there through centuries, and the
water still flows into Spoleto, and reaches its remotest quarters. This
is the third great work of the ancients that I have seen, and still the
same grandeur of conception. A second nature made to work for social
objects,--such was their architecture; and so arose the amphitheatre,
the temple, and the aqueduct. Now at last I can understand the justice
of my hatred for all arbitrary caprices, as, for instance, the winter
casts on white stone--a nothing about nothing--a monstrous piece of
confectionary ornament--and so also with a thousand other things. But
all that is now dead; for whatever does not possess a true intrinsic
vitality cannot live long, and can neither be nor ever become great.

What entertainment and instruction have I not had cause to be thankful
for during these eight last weeks, but in fact it has also cost me some
trouble. I kept my eyes continually open, and strove to stamp deep on
my mind the images of all I saw; that was all-judge of them I could
not, even if it had been in my power.

_San Crocefisso_, a singular chapel on the road side, did not look,
to my mind, like the remains of a temple which had once stood on the
same site; it was evident that columns, pillars, and pediments had
been found, and incongruously put together, not stupidly but madly. It
does not admit of description; however, there is somewhere or other an
engraving of it.

And so it may seem strange to some that we should go on troubling
ourselves to acquire an idea of antiquity, although we have nothing
before us but ruins, out of which we must first painfully reconstruct
the very thing we wish to form an idea of.

With what is called "_classical ground_" the case stands rather
different. Here, if only we do not go to work fancifully, but take
the ground really as it is, then we shall have the decisive arena
which moulded more or less the greatest of events. Accordingly I have
hitherto actively employed my geological and agricultural eye to the
suppressing of fancy and sensibility, in order to gain for myself an
unbiassed and distinct notion of the locality. By such means history
fixes itself on our minds with a marvellous vividness, and the effect
is utterly inconceivable by another. It is something of this sort that
makes me feel so very great a desire to read _Tacitus_ in Rome.

[Sidenote: Road-side fantasies.]

I must not, however, forget the weather. As I descended the Apennines
from Bologna the clouds gradually retired towards the north, afterwards
they changed their course and moved towards Lake Trasimene. Here they
continued to hang, though perhaps they may have moved a little farther
southward. Instead, therefore, of the great plain of the Po, sending as
it does, during the summer, all its clouds to the Tyrolese mountains,
it now sends a part of them towards the Apennines,--from thence perhaps
comes the rainy season.

They are now beginning to gather the olives. It is done here with the
hand, in other places they are beat down with sticks. If winter comes
on before all are gathered, the rest are allowed to remain on the trees
till spring. Yesterday I noticed, in a very strong soil, the largest
and oldest trees I have ever yet seen.

The favour of the Muses, like that of the dæmons, is not always shown
us in a suitable moment. Yesterday I felt inspired to undertake a work
which at present would be ill-timed. Approaching nearer and nearer
to the centre of Romanism, surrounded by Roman Catholics, boxed up
with a priest in a sedan, and striving anxiously to observe and to
study without prejudice true nature and noble art, I have arrived at a
vivid conviction that all traces of original Christianity are extinct
here. Indeed, while I tried to bring it before my mind in its purity,
as we see it recorded in the Acts of the Apostles, I could not help
shuddering to think of the shapeless, not to say grotesque, mass of
Heathenism which heavily overlies its benign beginnings. Accordingly
the "Wandering Jew" again occurred to me as having been a witness of
all this wonderful development and envelopment, and as having lived to
experience so strange a state of things, that Christ himself, when He
shall come a second time to gather in His harvest, will be in danger of
being crucified a second time. The Legend, "_Venio iterum crucifigi_"
was to serve me as the material of this catastrophe.

Dreams of this kind floated before me; for out of impatience to get
onwards, I used to sleep in my clothes; and I know of nothing more
beautiful than to wake before dawn, and between sleeping and waking,
to seat oneself in one's car, and travel on to meet the day.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Città Castellano, October_ 28, 1786.

I will not fail you this last evening. It is not yet eight o'clock,
and all are already in bed; so I can for a good "last time" think over
what is gone by, and revel in the anticipation of what is so shortly to
come. This has been throughout a bright and glorious day; the morning
very cold, the day clear and warm, the evening somewhat windy, but very
beautiful.

It was very late when we set off from Terni, and we reached Narni
before day, and so I did not see the bridge. Valleys and lowlands;--now
near, now distant prospects;--a rich country, but all of limestone, and
not a trace of any other formation.

Otricoli lies on an alluvial gravel-hill, thrown up by one of the
ancient inundations; it is built of lava brought from the other side of
the river.

As soon as one is over the bridge one finds oneself in a volcanic
region, either of real lava, or of the native rock, changed by the
heat and by fusion. You ascend a mountain, which you might set down
at once for gray lava. It contains many white crystals of the shape
of garnets. The causeway from the heights to the Città Castellana is
likewise composed of this stone, now worn extremely smooth. The city is
built on a bed of volcanic tufa, in which I thought I could discover
ashes, pumice-stone, and pieces of lava. The view from the castle is
extremely beautiful. Soracte stands out and alone in the prospect
most picturesquely. It is probably a limestone mountain of the same
formation as the Apennines. The volcanic region is far lower than the
Apennines, and it is only the streams tearing through it, that have
formed out of it hills and rocks, which, with their overhanging ledges,
and other marked features of the landscape, furnish most glorious
objects for the painter.

To-morrow evening and I shall be in Rome. Even yet I can scarcely
believe it possible; and if this wish is fulfilled, what shall I wish
for afterwards? I know not, except it be that I may safely stand in my
little pheasant-loaded canoe, and may find all my friends well, happy,
and unchanged.

ROME.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, November_ 1, 1786.

At last I can speak out, and greet my friends with good humour. May
they pardon my secrecy, and what has been, as it were, a subterranean
journey hither. For scarcely to myself did I venture to say whither I
was hurrying--even on the road I often had my fears, and it was only
as I passed under the Porta del Popolo that I felt certain of reaching
Rome.

And now let me also say that a thousand times--aye, at all times, do
I think of you, in the neighbourhood of these objects which I never
believed I should visit alone. It was only when I saw every one bound
body and soul to the north, and all longing for those countries utterly
extinct among them; that I resolved to undertake the long solitary
journey, and to seek that centre towards which I was attracted by an
irresistible impulse. Indeed for the few last years it had become
with me a kind of disease, which could only be cured by the sight and
presence of the absent object. Now, at length I may venture to confess
the truth: it reached at last such a height, that I durst not look at
a Latin book, or even an engraving of Italian scenery. The craving
to see this country was over ripe. Now, it is satisfied; friends and
country have once more become right dear to me, and the return to them
is a wished for object--nay, the more ardently desired, the more firmly
I feel convinced that I bring with me too many treasures for personal
enjoyment or private use, but such as through life may serve others, as
weft as myself, for edification and guidance.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, November 1_, 1786.

Well, at last I am arrived in this great capital of the world. If
fifteen years ago I could have seen it in good company, with a well
informed guide, I should have thought myself very fortunate. But as it
was to be that I should thus see it alone, and with my own eyes, it is
well that this joy has fallen to my lot so late in life.

Over the mountains of the Tyrol I have as good as flown. Verona,
Vicenza, Padua, and Venice I have carefully looked at; hastily
glanced at Ferrara, Cento, Bologna, and scarcely seen Florence at
all. My anxiety to reach Rome was so great, and it so grew with me
every moment, that to think of stopping anywhere was quite out of the
question; even in Florence, I only stayed three hours. Now I am here
at my ease, and as it would seem, shall be tranquillized for my whole
life; for we may almost say that a new life begins when a man once
sees with his own eyes all that before he has but partially heard or
read of. All the dreams of my youth I now behold realized before me;
the subjects of the first engravings I ever remember seeing (several
views of Borne were hung up in an ante-room of my father's house)
stand bodily before my sight, and all that I had long been acquainted
with through paintings or drawings, engravings, or wood-cuts,
plaister-casts, and cork models are here collectively presented to my
eye. Wherever I go I find some old acquaintance in this new world; it
is all just as I had thought it, and yet all is new; and just the same
might I remark of my own observations and my own ideas. I have not
gained any new thoughts, but the older ones have become so defined, so
vivid, and so coherent, that they may almost pass for new ones.

When Pygmalion's Elisa, which he had shaped entirely in accordance
with his wishes, and had given to it as much of truth and nature as an
artist can, moved at last towards him, and said, "I am!"--how different
was the living form from the chiselled stone.

In a moral sense, too, how salutary is it for me to live awhile among a
wholly sensual people, of whom so much has been said and written, and
of whom every stranger judges according to the standard he brings with
him. I can excuse every one who blames and reproaches them; they stand
too far apart from us, and for a stranger to associate with them is
difficult and expensive.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Rome--Festival of all souls.]

_Rome, November_ 3, 1786.

One of the chief motives which I had for hurrying to Rome was the
Festival of All Saints; for I thought within myself, if Rome pays so
much honour to a single saint, what will she not show to them all?
But I was under a mistake. The Roman Church has never been very fond
of celebrating with remarkable pomp any common festival; and so she
leaves every order to celebrate in silence the especial memory of its
own patron,--for the name Festival, and the day especially set apart
to each saint is properly the occasion when each receives his highest
commemoration.

Yesterday, however, which was the Festival of All Souls, things went
better with me. This commemoration is kept by the Pope in his private
chapel on the Quirinal. I hastened with Tischbein to the Monte Cavallo.
The piazza before the palace has something altogether singular--so
irregular is it, and yet so grand and so beautiful! I now cast eyes
upon the Colossuses! neither eye nor mind was large enough to take them
in. Ascending a broad flight of steps, we followed the crowd through a
splendid and spacious hall. In this ante-chamber, directly opposite to
the chapel, and in sight of the numerous apartments, one feels somewhat
strange to find oneself beneath the same roof with the Vicar of Christ.

The office had begun; Pope and Cardinals were already in the church.
The holy father, of a highly handsome and dignified form, the cardinals
of different ages and figures; I was seized with a strange longing
desire that the head of the Church might open his golden mouth, and
speaking with rapture of the ineffable bliss of the happy soul, set
us all too in a rapture. But as I only saw him moving backwards and
forwards before the altar, and turning himself now to this side and now
to that, and only muttering to himself, and conducting himself just
like a common parish priest, then the original sin of Protestantism
revived within me, and the well-known and ordinary mass for the dead
had no charms for me. For most assuredly Christ Himself--He who in his
youthful days, and even as a child excited men's winder by His oral
exposition of Scripture, did never thus teach and work in silence; but
as we learn from the Gospels, He was ever ready to utter His wise and
spiritual words. What, I asked myself, would He say, where He to come
in among us, and see His image on earth thus mumbling, and sailing
backwards and forwards? The "_Venio iterum crucifigi_" again crossed my
mind, and I nudged my companion to come out into the freer air of the
vaulted and painted hall.

Here we found a crowd of persons attentively observing the rich
paintings; for the Festival of All Souls is also the holiday of all the
artists in Rome. Not only the chapel, but the whole palace also, with
all its rooms, is for many hours on this day open and free to every
one, no fees being required, and the visitors not being liable to be
hurried on by the chamberlain.

The paintings on the walls engaged my attention, and I now formed a new
acquaintance with some excellent artists, whose very names had hitherto
been almost unknown to me,--for instance, I now for the first time
learned to appreciate and to love the cheerful _Carlo Maratti._

But chiefly welcome to me were the masterpieces of the artists, of
whose style and manner I already had some impression. I saw with
amazement the wonderful Petronilla of _Guercino_, which was formerly
in St. Peter's, where a mosaic copy now stands in the place of the
original. The body of the Saint is lifted out of the grave, and the
same person, just reanimated, is being received into the heights of
heaven by a celestial youth. Whatever may be alleged against this
double action, the picture is invaluable.

Still more struck was I with a picture of Titian's: it throws into the
shade all I have hitherto seen. Whether my eye is more practised, or
whether it is really the most excellent, I cannot determine. An immense
mass-robe, stiff with embroidery and gold-embossed figures, envelops
the dignified frame of a bishop. With a massive pastoral star in his
left hand, he is gazing with a look of rapture towards heaven, while
he holds in his right a book out of which he seems to have imbibed the
divine enthusiasm with which he is inspired. Behind him a beautiful
maiden, holding a palm branch in her hand, and, full of affectionate
sympathy, is looking over his shoulder into the open book. A grave old
man on the right stands quite close to the book, but appears to pay
no attention to it; the key in his hand, suggests the possibility of
his familiar acquaintance with its contents. Over against this group
a naked, well-made youth, wounded with an arrow, and in chains, is
looking straight before him with a slight expression of resignation in
his countenance. In the intermediate space stand two monks, bearing
a cross and lilies, and devoutly looking up to heaven. Then in the
clear upper space is a semi-circular wall, which encloses them all;
above moves a Madonna in highest glory, sympathising with all that
passes below. The young sprightly child on her bosom, with a radiant
countenance, is holding out a crown, and seems indeed on the point of
casting it down. On both sides angels are floating by, who hold in
their hands crowns in abundance. High above all the figures, and even
the triple-rayed aureola, soars the celestial dove, as at once the
centre and finish of the whole group.

[Sidenote: Rome--Titian--Guido.]

We said to ourselves, "Some ancient holy legend must have furnished the
subject of this picture, in order that these various and ill-assorted
personages should have been brought together so artistically and so
significantly. We ask not, however, why and wherefore,--we take it
all for granted, and only wonder at the inestimable piece of art.
Less unintelligible, but still mysterious, is a fresco of Guido's in
this chapel. A virgin, in childish beauty, loveliness, and innocence,
is seated, and quietly sewing: two angels stand by her side, waiting
to do her service at the slightest bidding. Youthful innocence and
industry,--the beautiful picture seems to tell us,--are guarded and
honoured by the heavenly beings. No legend is wanting here; no story
needed to furnish an explanation."

Now, however, to cool a little my artistic enthusiasm, a merry incident
occurred. I observed that several of the German artists, who came up to
Tischbein as an old acquaintance, after staring at me, went their ways
again. At last one, who had most recently been observing my person,
came up to me again, and said, "We have had a good joke; the report
that you were in Rome had spread among us, and the attention of us
artists was called to the one unknown stranger. Now, there was one of
our body who used for a long time to assert that he had met you--nay,
he asseverated he had lived on very friendly terms with you,--a fact
which we were not so ready to believe. However, we have just called
upon him to look at you, and solve our doubts. He at once stoutly
denied that it was you, and said that in the stranger there was not a
trace of your person or mien." So, then, at least our _incognito_ is
for the moment secure, and will afford us something hereafter to laugh
at.

I now mixed at my ease with the troop of artists, and asked them who
were the painters of several pictures whose style of art was unknown
to me. At last I was particularly struck by a picture representing
St. George killing the dragon, and setting free the virgin; no one
could tell me whose it was. Upon this a little modest man, who up to
this time had not opened his mouth, came forward and told me it was
Pordenone's, the Venetian painter; and that it was one of the best
of his paintings, and displayed all his merits. I was now well able
to account for my liking for it: the picture pleased me, because I
possessed some knowledge of the Venetian school, and was better able to
appreciate the excellencies of its best masters.

The artist, my informant, was Heinrich Meyer, a Swiss, who for some
years had been studying at Rome with a friend of the name of Rolla, and
who had taken excellent drawings in Spain of antique busts, and was
well read in the history of art.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, November_ 7, 1786.

I have now been here seven days, and by degrees have formed in my mind
a general idea of the city. We go diligently backwards and forwards.
While I am thus making myself acquainted with the plan of old and
new Rome, viewing the ruins and the buildings, visiting this and
that villa, the grandest and most remarkable objects are slowly and
leisurely contemplated. I do but keep my eyes open and see, and then go
and come again, for it is only in Rome one can duly prepare oneself for
Rome.

It must, in truth, be confessed, that it is a sad and melancholy
business to prick and track out ancient Rome in new Rome; however,
it must be done, and we may hope at least for an incalculable
gratification. We meet with traces both of majesty and of ruin, which
alike surpass all conception; what the barbarians spared, the builders
of new Rome made havoc of.

[Sidenote: Rome--Its present aspect.]

When one thus beholds an object two thousand years old and more, but
so manifoldly and thoroughly altered by the changes of time, but, sees
nevertheless, the same soil, the same mountains, and often indeed the
same walls and columns, one becomes, as it were, a contemporary of
the great counsels of Fortune, and thus it becomes difficult for the
observer to trace from the beginning Rome following Rome, and not only
new Rome succeeding to the old, but also the several epochs of both old
and new in succession. I endeavour, first of all, to grope my way alone
through the obscurer parts, for this is the only plan by which one can
hope fully and completely to perfect by the excellent introductory
works which have been written from the fifteenth century to the present
day. The first artists and scholars have occupied their whole lives
with these objects.

And this vastness has a strangely tranquillizing effect upon you
in Rome, while you pass from place to place, in order to visit the
most remarkable objects. In other places one has to search for what
is important; here one is oppressed, and borne down with numberless
phenomena. Wherever one goes and casts a look around, the eye is at
once struck with some landscape,--forms of every kind and style;
palaces and ruins, gardens and statuary, distant views of villas,
cottages and stables, triumphal arches and columns, often crowding
so close together, that they might all be sketched on a single sheet
of paper. He ought to have a hundred hands to write, for what can a
single pen do here; and, besides, by the evening one is quite weary and
exhausted with the day's seeing and admiring.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, November_ 7, 1786.

Pardon me, my friends, if for the future you find me rather chary of
my words. On one's travels one usually rakes together all that we meet
on one's way; every day brings something new, and one then hastens to
think upon and to judge of it. Here, however, we come into a very great
school indeed, where every day says so much, that we cannot venture
to say anything of the day itself. Indeed, people would do well if,
tarrying here for years together, they observed awhile a Pythagorean
silence.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Nov._ 1786.

I am quite well. The weather, as the Romans say, is _brutto._ The south
wind, the scirocco, is blowing, and brings with it every day more or
less of rain; for my part, I do not find the weather disagreeable; such
as it is, it is warmer than the rainy days of summer are with us.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, November_ 7, 1786.

The more I become acquainted with Tischbein's talents, as well as his
principles and views of art, the higher I appreciate and value them. He
has laid before me his drawings and sketches; they have great merit,
and are full of high promise. His visit to Bodmer led him to fix his
thoughts on the infancy of the human race, when man found himself
standing on the earth, and had to solve the problem, how he must best
fulfil his destiny as the Lord of Creation.

As a suggestive introduction to a series of illustrations of this
subject, he has attempted symbolically to vindicate the high antiquity
of the world. Mountains overgrown with noble forests,--ravines worn out
by watercourses,--burnt out volcanoes still faintly smoking. In the
foreground the mighty stock of a patriarchal oak still remains in the
ground, on whose half-bared roots a deer is trying the strength of his
horns,--a conception as fine as it is beautifully executed.

In another most remarkable piece he has painted man yoking the horse,
and by his superior skill, if not strength, bringing all the other
creatures of the earth, the air, and the water under his dominion.
The composition is of an extraordinary beauty; when finished in oils
it cannot fail of producing a great effect. A drawing of it must, at
any cost, be secured for Weimar. When this is finished, he purposes
to paint an assembly of old men, aged and experienced in council,--in
which he intends to introduce the portraits of living personages. At
present, however, he is sketching away with the greatest enthusiasm on
a battle-piece. Two bodies of cavalry are fighting with equal courage
and resolution; between them yawns an awful chasm, which but few horses
would attempt to clear. The arts of defensive warfare are useless here.
A wild resolve, a bold attack, a successful leap, or else to be hurled
in the abyss below! This picture will afford him an opportunity to
display, in a very striking manner, the knowledge winch he possesses of
horses, and of their make and movements.

Now it is Tischbein's wish to have these sketches, and a series of
others to follow, or to be intercalated between them, connected
together by a poem, which may serve to explain the drawings, and, by
giving them a definite context, may lend to them both a body and a
charm.

The idea is beautiful, only the artist and the poet must be many years
together, in order to carry out and to execute such a work.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Rome--Raffaele.]

_Rome, November 7_, 1786.

The "_Loggie_" of Raffaele, and the great pictures of the "School of
Athens," &c., I have now seen for the first and only time; so that for
me to judge of them at present is like a man having to make out and to
judge of Homer from some half-obliterated and much-injured manuscript.
The gratification of the first impression is incomplete; it is only
when they have been carefully studied and examined, one by one, that
the enjoyment becomes perfect. The best preserved are the paintings on
the ceilings of the _Loggie._ They are as fresh as if painted yesterday
The subjects are symbolical. Very few, however, are by Raffaele's own
hand, but they are excellently executed, after his designs and under
his eye.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, November_ 7, 1786.

Many a time, in years past, did I entertain the strange whim, as
ardently to wish that I might one day be taken to Italy by some
well-educated man,--by some Englishman, well learned in art and in
history; and now it has all been brought about much better than I could
have anticipated. Tischbein has long lived here; he is a sincere friend
to me, and during his stay here always cherished the wish of being able
one day to show Rome to me. Our intimacy is old by letter though new by
presence. Where could I meet with a worthier guide? And if my time is
limited, I will at least learn and enjoy as much as possible; and yet,
notwithstanding, I clearly foresee, that when I leave Rome I shall wish
that I was coming to it.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, November_ 8, 1786.

My strange, and perhaps whimsical, incognito proves useful to me
in many ways that I never should have thought of. As every one
thinks himself in duty bound to ignore who I am, and consequently
never ventures to speak to me of myself and my works, they have
no alternative left them but to speak of themselves, or of the
matters in which they are most interested, and in this way I become
circumstantially informed of the occupations of each, and of everything
remarkable that is either taken in hand or produced. Hofrath
Reiffenstein good-naturedly humours this whim of mine; as, however,
for special reasons, he could not bear the name which I had assumed,
he immediately made a Baron of me, and I am now called the "_Baron
gegen Rondanini über_" (the Baron who lives opposite to the Palace
Rondanini). This designation is sufficiently precise, especially as the
Italians are accustomed to speak of people either by their Christian
names, or else by some nickname. Enough; I have gained my object; and I
escape the dreadful annoyance of having to give to everybody an account
of myself and my works.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, November_ 9, 1786.

I frequently stand still a moment to survey, as it were, the heights I
have already won. With much delight I look back to Venice, that grand
creation that sprang out of the bosom of the sea, like Minerva out of
the head of Jupiter. In Rome, the Rotunda, both by its exterior and
interior, has moved me to offer a willing homage to its magnificence.
In S. Peter's I learned to understand how art, no less than nature,
annihilates the artificial measures and dimensions of man. And in the
same way the Apollo Belvidere also has again drawn me out of reality.
For as even the most correct engravings furnish no adequate idea of
these buildings, so the case is the same with respect to the marble
original of this statue, as compared with the plaister models of it,
which, however, I formerly used to look upon as beautiful.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, November_ 10, 1786.

Here I am now living with a calmness and tranquillity to which I have
for a long while been a stranger. My practice to see and take all
things as they are, my fidelity in letting the eye be my light, my
perfect renunciation of all pretension, have again come to my aid, and
make me calmly, but most intensely, happy. Every day has its fresh
remarkable object,--every day its new grand unequalled paintings, and a
whole which a man may long think of, and dream of, but which with all
his power of imagination he can never reach.

[Sidenote: Rome-The Grotto of Egeria, &c.]

Yesterday I was at the Pyramid of Cestius, and in the evening on the
Palatine, on the top of which are the ruins of the palace of the
Cæsars, which stand there like walls of rock. Of all this, however, no
idea can be conveyed! In truth, there is nothing little here; although,
indeed, occasionally something to find fault with,--something more
or less absurd in taste, and yet even this partakes of the universal
grandeur of all around.

When, however, I return to myself, as every one so readily does on
all occasions, I discover within a feeling which does not infinitely
delight me--one, indeed, which I may even express. Whoever here looks
around with earnestness, and has eyes to see, must become in a measure
solid--he cannot but apprehend an idea of solidity with a vividness
which is nowhere else possible.

The mind becomes, as it were, primed with capacity, with an earnestness
without severity, and with a definiteness of character with joy. With
me, at least, it seems as if I had never before so rightly estimated
the things of the world as I do here; I rejoice when I think of the
blessed effects of all this on the whole of my future being. And let me
jumble together the things as I may, order will somehow come into them.
I am not here to enjoy myself after my own fashion, but to busy myself
with the great objects around, to learn, and to improve myself, ere I
am forty years old.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Nov._ 11, 1786.

Yesterday I visited the nymph Egeria, and then the Hippodrome of
Caracalla, the ruined tombs along the Via Appia, and the tomb of
Metella, which is the first to give one a true idea of what solid
masonry really is. These men worked for eternity--all causes of decay
were calculated, except the rage of the spoiler, which nothing can
resist. Right heartily did I wish you had been there. The remains of
the principal aqueduct are highly venerable. How beautiful and grand a
design, to supply a whole people with water by so vast a structure! In
the evening we came upon the Coliseum, when it was already twilight.
When one looks at it, all else seems little; the edifice is so vast,
that one cannot hold the image of it in one's soul--in memory we think
it smaller, and then return to it again to find it every time greater
than before.

-------

_Frascati, Nov._ 15.

The company are all in bed, and I am writing with Indian ink which they
use for drawing. We have had two beautiful days without rain, warm and
genial sunshine, so that summer is scarcely missed. The country around
is very pleasant; the village lies on the side of a hill, or rather
of a mountain, and at every step the draughtsman comes upon the most
glorious objects. The prospect is unbounded--Rome lies before you,
and beyond it, on the right, is the sea, the mountains of Tivoli, and
so on. In this delightful region country houses are built expressly
for pleasure, and as the ancient Romans had here their villas, so
for centuries past their rich and haughty successors have planted
country residences on all the loveliest spots. For two days we have
been wandering about here, and almost every step has brought us upon
something new and attractive.

And yet it is hard to say whether the evenings have not passed still
more agreeably than the days. As soon as our stately hostess has placed
on the round table the bronzed lamp with its three wicks, and wished
us _felicissime notte_, we all form a circle round it, and the views
are produced which have been drawn and sketched during the day; their
merits are discussed, opinions are taken whether the objects might or
not have been taken more favourably, whether their true characters have
been caught, and whether all requisitions of a like general nature,
which may justly be looked for in a first sketch, have been fulfilled.

Hofrath Reiffenstein, by his judgment and authority, contrives to
give order to, and to conduct these sittings. But the merit of this
delightful arrangement is due to Philipp Hackert, who has a most
excellent taste both in drawing and finishing views from nature.
Artists and dilettanti, men and women, old and young--he would let no
one rest, but stimulated every one to make the attempt at any rate
according to their gifts and powers, and led the way with his own good
example. The little society thus collected, and held together, Hofrath
Reiffenstein has, after the departure of his friend, faithfully kept
up, and we all feel a laudable desire to awake in every one an active
participation. The peculiar turn and character of each member of the
society is thus shown in a most agreeable way. For instance, Tischbein,
as an historical painter, looks upon scenery with very different eyes
from the landscape painter; he sees significant groups, and other
graceful speaking objects, where another can see nothing, and so he
happily contrives to catch up many a naive-trait of humanity,--it
may be in children, peasants, mendicants, or other such beings of
nature, or even in animals, which with a few characteristic touches,
he skilfully manages to portray, and thereby contributes much new and
agreeable matter for our discussions.

When conversation is exhausted, at Hackert's suggestion, perhaps, some
one reads aloud Sulzer's Theory; for although from a high point of
view it is impossible to rest contented with this work, nevertheless,
as some one observed, it is so far satisfactory as it is calculated to
exercise a favourable influence on minds less highly cultivated.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Nov._ 17, 1786.

We are back again! During the night we have had an awful torrent of
rain, with thunder and lightning; it is still raining, but withal very
warm.

[Sidenote: Rome-Farnese Gallery, &c.]

As regards myself, however, it is only with few words that I can
indicate the happiness of this day. I have seen the frescoes of
_Domenichino_ in _Andrea della Valle_, and also the Farnese Gallery of
Caraccio's. Too much, forsooth, for months-what, then, for a single day!

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Nov._ 18, 1786.

It is again beautiful, weather, a bright genial warm day. I saw in
the _Farnesine_ palace the story of Psyche, coloured copies of which
have so long adorned my room, and then at S. Peter's, in Montorio, the
Transfiguration by Raffaelle--all well known paintings--like friends
which one has made in the distance by means of letters, and which for
the first time one sees face to face. To live with them, however, is
something quite different; every true relation and false relation
becomes immediately evident.

Moreover, in every spot and corner glorious things are to be met with,
of which less has been said, and which have not been scattered over the
world by engravings and copies. Of these I shall bring away with me
many a drawing from the hands of young but excellent artists.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Nov._ 18, 1786.

The fact that I long maintained a correspondence with Tischbein, and
was consequently on the best terms possible with him, and that even
when I had no hope of ever visiting Italy, I had communicated to him
my wishes, has made our meeting most profitable and delightful; he
has been always thinking of me, even providing for my wants. With the
varieties of stone, of which all the great edifices, whether old or new
are built, he has made himself perfectly acquainted; he has thoroughly
studied them, and his studies have been greatly helped by his artistic
eye, and the artist's pleasure in sensible things. Just before my
arrival here he sent off to Weimar a collection of specimens which he
had selected for me, which will give me a friendly welcome on my return.

An ecclesiastic who is now residing in France, and had it in
contemplation to write a work on the ancient marbles, received through
the influence of the Propaganda some large pieces of marble from the
Island of Paros. When they arrived here they were cut up for specimens,
and twelve different pieces, from the finest to the coarsest grain,
were reserved for me. Some were of the greatest purity, while others
are more or less mingled with mica, the former being used for statuary,
the latter for architecture. How much an accurate knowledge of the
material employed in the arts must contribute to a right estimate of
them, must be obvious to every one.

There are opportunities enough here for my collecting many more
specimens. In our way to the ruins of Nero's palace, we passed through
some artichoke grounds newly turned up, and we could not resist the
temptation to cram our pockets full of the granite, porphyry, and
marble slabs which lie here by thousands, and serve as unfailing
witnesses to the ancient splendour of the walls which were once covered
with them.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Nov._ 18, 1786.

I must now speak of a wonderful problematical picture, which even in
the midst of the many gems here, still makes a good show of its own.

[Sidenote: Rome.]

For many years there had been residing here a Frenchman well known as
an admirer of the arts, and a collector; he had got hold of an antique
drawing in chalk, no one knows how or whence. He had it retouched by
Mengs, and kept it in his collection as a work of very great value.
Winckelmann somewhere speaks of it with enthusiasm. The Frenchman died,
and left the picture to his hostess as an antique. Mengs, too, died,
and declared on his death-bed that it was not an antique, but had been
painted by himself. And now the whole world is divided in opinion, some
maintaining that Mengs had one day, in joke, dashed it off with much
facility; others asserting that Mengs could never do anything like
it--indeed, that it is almost too beautiful for Raffaelle. I saw it
yesterday, and must confess that I do not know anything more beautiful
than the figure of Ganymede, especially the head and shoulders; the
rest has been much renovated. However, the painting is in ill repute,
and no one will relieve the poor landlady of her treasure.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Nov._ 20, 1786.

As experience fully teaches us that there is a general pleasure in
having poems, whatever may be their subject, illustrated with drawings
and engravings--nay, that the painter himself usually selects a passage
of some poet or other for the subject of his most elaborate paintings,
Tischbein's idea is deserving of approbation, that poets and painters
should work together from the very first, in order to secure a perfect
unity. The difficulty would assuredly be greatly lessened, if it
were applied to little pieces, such as that the whole design would
easily admit of being taken in at once by the mind, and worked out
consistently with the original plan.

Tischbein has suggested for such common labours some very delightful
idyllic thoughts, and it is really singular, that those which he wishes
to see worked out in this way are really such as neither poetry nor
painting, alone, could ever adequately describe. During our walks
together he has talked with me about them, in the hopes of gaining
me over to his views, and getting me to enter upon the plan. The
frontispiece for such a joint work is already designed; and did I not
fear to enter upon any new tasks at present, I might perhaps be tempted.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Nov._ 22, 1786. _The Feast of St. Cecilia._

The morning of this happy day I must endeavour to perpetuate by a
few lines, and at least by description to impart to others what I
have myself enjoyed. The weather has been beautiful and calm, quite a
bright sky, and a warm sun. Accompanied by Tischbein, I set off for
the Piazza of St. Peter's, where we went about first of all from one
part to another; when it became too hot for that, walked up and down
in the shade of the great obelisk, which is full wide enough for two
abreast, and eating grapes which we purchased in the neighbourhood.
Then we entered the Sistine Chapel, which we found bright and cheerful,
and with a good light for the pictures. "The Last Judgment" divided our
admiration with the paintings on the roof by Michael Angelo. I could
only see and wonder. The mental confidence and boldness of the master,
and his grandeur of conception, are beyond all expression. After we
had looked at all of them over and over again, we left this sacred
building, and went to St. Peter's, which received from the bright
heavens the loveliest light possible, and every part of it was clearly
lit up. As men willing to be pleased, we were delighted with its
vastness and splendour, and did not allow an over nice or hypocritical
taste to mar our pleasure. We suppressed every harsher judgment: we
enjoyed the enjoyable.

[Sidenote: Rome--St. Peter's.]

Lastly we ascended the roof of the church, where one finds in little
the plan of a well-built city. Houses and magazines, springs (in
appearance at least), churches, and a great temple all in the air,
and beautiful walks between. We mounted the dome, and saw glistening
before us the regions of the Apennines, Soracte, and towards Tivoli the
volcanic hills. Frascati, Castelgandolfo, and the plains, and beyond
all the sea. Close at our feet lay the whole city of Rome in its length
and breadth, with its mountain palaces, domes, &c. Not a breath of air
was moving, and in the upper dome it was (as they say) like being in a
hot-house. When we had looked enough at these things, we went down, and
they opened for us the doors in the cornices of the dome, the tympanum,
and the nave. There is a passage all round, and from above you can take
a view of the whole church, and of its several parts. As we stood on
the cornices of the tympanum, we saw beneath us the pope passing to his
mid-day devotions. Nothing, therefore, was wanting to make our view of
St. Peter's perfect. We at last descended to the area, and took in a
neighbouring hotel a cheerful but frugal meal, and then set off for St.
Cecilia's.

It would take many words to describe the decorations of this church,
which was crammed full of people; not a stone of the edifice was to be
seen. The pillars were covered with red velvet wound round with gold
lace; the capitals were overlaid with embroidered velvet, so as to
retain somewhat of the appearance of capitals, and all the cornices and
pillars were in like manner covered with hangings. All the entablatures
of the walls were also covered with life-like paintings, so that the
whole church seemed to be laid out in mosaic. Around the church, and
on the high altar more than two hundred wax tapers were burning. It
looked like a wall of lights, and the whole nave was perfectly lit
up. The aisles and side altars were equally adorned and illuminated.
Right opposite the high altar, and under the organ, two scaffolds were
erected, which also were covered with velvet, on one of which were
placed the singers, and on the other the instruments, which kept up one
unbroken strain of music. The church was crammed full.

I have heard an excellent kind of musical accompaniment, just as
there are concerts of violins, or of other instruments, so here
they had concerts of voices; so that one voice--the soprano for
instance--predominates, and sings solo, while from time to time the
chorus of other voices falls in, and accompanies it, always of course
with the whole orchestra. It has a good effect. I must end, as we in
fact ended the day. In the evening we come upon the Opera, where no
less a piece than "I Litiganti" was being performed, but we had all the
day enjoyed so much of excellence, that we passed by the door.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Nov._ 23, 1786.

In order that it may not be the same with my dear incognito as with
the ostrich, which thinks itself to be concealed when it has hid its
head, so in certain cases I give it up, still maintaining, however,
my old thesis. I had without hesitation paid a visit of compliment to
the Prince von Lichtenstein, the brother of my much-esteemed friend
the Countess Harrach, and occasionally dined with him, and I soon
perceived that my good-nature in this instance was likely to lead me
much further. They began to feel their way, and to talk to me of the
Abbé _Monti_, and of his tragedy of Aristodemus, which is shortly to
be brought out on the stage. The author, it was said, wished above all
things to read it to me, and to hear my opinion of it, but I contrived,
however, to let the matter drop, without positively refusing; at last,
however, I met the poet and some of his friends at the prince's house,
and the play was read aloud.

The hero is, as is well known, the King of Sparta, who by various
scruples of conscience was driven to commit suicide. Prettily enough
they contrived to intimate to me their hope that the author of Werther
would not take it ill if he found some of the rare passages of his own
work made use of in this drama. And so even before the walls of Sparta
I can not escape from this unhappy youth.

The piece has a very simple and calm movement, the sentiments as well
as the language are well suited to the subject,--full of energy, and
yet of tenderness. The work is a proof of very fair talents.

I failed not, according to my fashion, (not, indeed, after the Italian
fashion) to point out, and to dwell upon all the excellencies and
merits of the piece, with which, indeed, all present were tolerably
satisfied, though still with Southern impatience they seemed to require
something more. I even ventured to predict what effect it was to be
hoped the piece would have from the public. I excused myself on account
of my ignorance of the country, its way of thinking and tastes, but
was candid enough to add, that I did not clearly see how the Romans,
with their vitiated taste, who were accustomed to see as an interlude
either a complete comedy of three acts, or an opera of two, or could
not sit out a grand opera, without the intermezzo of wholly foreign
ballets, could ever take delight in the calm, noble movement of a
regular tragedy. Then, again, the subject of a suicide seemed to me to
be altogether out of the pale of an Italian's ideas. That they stabbed
men to death, I knew by daily report of such events; but that any one
should deprive himself of his own precious existence, or even should
hold it possible for another to do so; of that no trace or symptom had
ever been brought under my notice.

[Sidenote: Rome--Monti's Aristodemus.]

However I allowed myself to be circumstantially enlightened as to all
that might be urged in answer to my objections, and readily yielded to
their plausible arguments. I also assured them I wished for nothing so
much as to see the piece acted, and with a band of friends to welcome
it with the most downright and loudest applause. This assurance was
received in the most friendly manner possible, and I had this time at
least no cause to be dissatisfied with my compliance--for indeed Prince
Lichstenstein is politeness itself, and found opportunity for my seeing
in his company many precious works of art, a sight of which is not
easily obtained without special permission, and for which consequently
high influence is indispensable. On the other hand, my good humour
failed me, when the daughter of the Pretender expressed a wish to see
the strange marmoset. I declined the honour, and once more completely
shrouded myself beneath my disguise.

But still that is not altogether the right way, and I here feel most
sensibly what I have often before observed in life, that the man who
makes good his first wish, must be on the alert and active, must oppose
himself to very much besides the selfish, the mean, and the bad. It is
easy to see this, but is extremely difficult to act in the spirit of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Nov._ 24, 1786.

Of the people I can say nothing more than that they are fine children
of nature, who, amidst pomp and honours of all kinds, religion and
the arts, are not one jot different from what they would be in caves
and forests. What strikes the stranger most, and what to-day is
making the whole city to talk, but only to _talk_, is the common
occurrence of assassination. To-day the victim has been an excellent
artist--Schwendemann, a Swiss, a medallionist. The particulars of his
death greatly resemble those of Windischmann's. The assassin with whom
he was struggling gave him twenty stabs, and as the watch came up, the
villain stabbed himself. This is not generally the fashion here; the
murderer usually makes for the nearest church, and once there, he is
quite safe.

And now, in order to shade my picture a little, I might bring into it
crimes and disorders, earthquakes and inundations of all kinds, but for
an eruption of Vesuvius, which has just broke out, and has set almost
all the visitors here in motion; and one must, indeed, possess a rare
amount of self-control, not to be carried away by the crowd. Really
this phenomenon of nature has in it something of a resemblance to the
rattle-snake, for its attraction is irresistible. At this moment it
almost seems as if all the treasures of art in Rome were annihilated;
every stranger, without exception, has broken off the current of his
contemplations, and is hurrying to Naples; I, however, shall stay, in
the hope that the mountain will have a little eruption, expressly for
my amusement.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Dec._ 1, 1786.

Moritz is here, who has made himself famous by his "Anthony the
Traveller" (_Anton Reiser_,) and his "Wanderings in England"
(_Wanderungen nach England._) He is a right down excellent man, and we
have been greatly pleased with him.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Dec._ 1, 1786.

Here in Rome, where one sees so many strangers, all of whom do not
visit this capital of the world merely for the sake of the fine
arts, but also for amusements of every kind, the people are prepared
for everything. Accordingly, they have invented and attained great
excellence in certain half arts which require for their pursuit little
more than manual skill and pleasure in such handiwork, and which
consequently attract the interest of ordinary visitors.

Among these is the art of painting in wax. Requiring little more than
tolerable skill in water-colouring, it serves as an amusement to employ
one's time in preparing and adapting the wax, and then in burning it,
and in such like mechanical labours. Skilful artists give lessons in
the art, and, under the pretext of showing their pupils how to perform
their tasks, do the chief part of the work themselves, so that when at
last the figure stands out in bright relief in the gilded frame, the
fair disciple is ravished with the proof of her unconscious talent.

Another pretty occupation is, with a very fine clay, to take
impressions of cameos cut in deep relief. This is also done in the case
of medallions, both sides of which are thus copied at once. More tact,
attention, and diligence is required, lastly, for preparation of the
glass-paste for mock jewels. For all these things Hofrath Reiffenstein
has the necessary workshops and laboratories either in his house, or
close at hand.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Dec._ 2, 1786.

I have accidentally found here Archenholtz's Italy. A work written on
the spot, in so contracted and narrow-minded a spirit as this, is just
as if one were to lay a book purposely on the coals, in order that it
might be browned and blackened, and its leaves curled up and disfigured
with smoke.

[Sidenote: Rome--Archenholtz's Italy.]

No doubt he has seen all that he writes about, but he possesses far too
little of real knowledge to support his high pretensions and sneering
tone; and whether he praises or blames, he is always in the wrong.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Dec._ 2, 1786.

Such beautiful warm and quiet weather at the end of November, (which
however is often broken by a day's rain,) is quite new to me. We spend
the fine days in the open air, the bad in our room; everywhere there is
something to learn and to do, something to be delighted with.

On the 28th we paid a second visit to the Sistine Chapel, and had
the galleries opened, in order that we might obtain a nearer view of
the ceiling. As the galleries are very narrow, it is only with great
difficulty that one forces one's way up them, by means of the iron
balustrades. There is an appearance of danger about it, on which
account those who are liable to get dizzy had better not make the
attempt; all the discomfort, however, is fully compensated by the sight
of the great masterpiece of art. And at this moment I am so taken
with Michael Angelo, that after him I have no taste even for nature
herself, especially as I am unable to contemplate her with the same eye
of genius that he did. Oh, that there were only some means of fixing
such paintings in my soul! At any rate, I shall bring with me every
engraving and drawing of his pictures or drawings after him that I can
lay hold of.

Then we went to the _Loggie_, painted by Raffaelle, and scarcely dare
I say that we could not endure to look at them. The eye had been so
dilated and spoiled by those great forms, and the glorious finish of
every part, that it was not able to follow the ingenious windings
of the Arabesques; and the Scripture histories, however beautiful
they were, did not stand examination after the former. And yet to
see these works frequently one after another, and to compare them
together at leisure, and without prejudice, must be a source of great
pleasure,--for at first all sympathy is more or less exclusive.

From hence, under a sunshine, if anything rather too warm, we proceeded
to the Villa Pamphili, whose beautiful gardens are much resorted to for
amusement; and there we remained till evening. A large flat meadow,
enclosed by long ever green oaks and lofty pines, was sown all over
with daisies, which turned their heads to the sun. I now revived my
botanical speculations, which I had indulged in the other day during a
walk towards Monte Mario, to the Villa Melini, and the Villa Madama.
It is very interesting to observe the working of a vigorous unceasing
vegetation, which is here unbroken by any severe cold. Here there are
no buds: one has actually to learn what a bud is. The strawberry-tree
(_arbutus unedo_) is at this season, for the second time, in blossom,
while its last fruits are just ripening. So also the orange-tree may
seen in flower, and at the same time bearing partially and fully
ripened fruit. (The latter trees, however, if they are not sheltered by
standing between buildings, are, at this season, generally covered).
As to the cypress, that most "venerable" of trees, when it is old and
well grown, it affords matter enough for thought. As soon as possible
I shall pay a visit to the Botanical Gardens, and hope to add there
much to my experience. Generally, there is nothing to be compared with
the new life which the sight of a new country affords to a thoughtful
person. Although I am still the same being, I yet think I am changed to
the very marrow.

For the present I conclude, and shall perhaps fill the next sheet with
murders, disorders, earthquakes, and troubles, in order that at any
rate my pictures may not be without their dark shades.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Dec._ 3, 1786.

The weather lately has changed almost every six days. Two days quite
glorious, then a doubtful one, and after it two or three rainy ones,
and then again fine weather. I endeavour to put each day, according to
its nature, to the best use.

[Sidenote: Rome--The Apollo Belvedere, &c.]

And yet these glorious objects are even still like new acquaintances
to me. One has not yet lived with them, nor got familiar with their
peculiarities. Some of them attract us with irresistible power, so that
for a time one feels indifferent, if not unjust, towards all others.
Thus, for instance, the Pantheon, the Apollo Belvedere, some colossal
heads, and very recently the Sistine Chapel, have by turns so won
my whole heart, that I scarcely saw any thing besides them. But, in
truth, can man, little as man always is, and accustomed to littleness,
ever make himself equal to all that here surrounds him of the noble,
the vast, and the refined? Even though he should in any degree
adapt himself to it, then how vast is the multitude of objects that
immediately press upon him from all sides, and meet him at every turn,
of which each demands for itself the tribute of his whole attention.
How is one to get out of the difficulty? No other way assuredly than by
patiently allowing it to work, becoming industrious, and attending the
while to all that others have accomplished for our benefit.

Winckelmann's History of Art, translated by Rea, (the new edition), is
a very useful book, which I have just procured, and here on the spot
find it to be highly profitable, as I have around me many kind friends,
willing to explain and to comment upon it.

Roman antiquities also begin to have a charm for me. History,
inscriptions, coins, (of which formerly I knew nothing,) all are
pressing upon me. As it happened to me in the case of natural history,
so goes it with me here also; for the history of the whole world
attaches itself to this spot, and I reckon a new-birth day,--a true new
birth from the day that I entered Rome.

       *       *       *       *       *

_December_ 5, 1786.

During the few weeks I have been here, I have already seen many
strangers come and go, so that I have often wondered at the levity
with which so many treat these precious monuments. God be thanked that
hereafter none of those birds of passage will be able to impose upon
me. When in the north they shall speak to me of Rome, none of them now
will be able to excite my spleen, for I also have seen it, and know
too, in some degree, where I have been.

       *       *       *       *       *

_December_ 8, 1786.

We have every now and then the finest days possible. The rain which
falls from time to time has made the grass and garden stuffs quite
verdant. Evergreens too are to be seen here at different spots, so
that one scarcely misses the fallen leaves of the forest trees. In the
gardens you may see orange-trees full of fruit, left in the open ground
and not under cover.

I had intended to give you a particular account of a very pleasant
trip which we took to the sea, and of our fishing exploits, but in
the evening poor Moritz, as he was riding home, broke his arm, his
horse having slipped on the smooth Roman pavement. This marred all our
pleasure, and has plunged our little domestic circle in sad affliction.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Dec._ 15, 1786.

I am heartily delighted that you have taken my sudden disappearance
just as I wished you should. Pray appease for me every one that may
have taken offence at it. I never wished to give any one pain, and
even now I cannot say anything to excuse myself. God keep me from ever
afflicting my friends with the premises which led me to this conclusion.

Here I am gradually recovering from my "salto mortale," and studying
rather than enjoying myself. Rome is a world, and one must spend
years before one can become at all acquainted with it. How happy do I
consider those travellers who can take a look at it and go their way!

[Sidenote: Rome--Winckelmann's letters.]

Yesterday many of Winckelmann's letters, which he wrote from Italy,
fell into my hands. With what emotions did I not begin to read them.
About this same season, some one and thirty years ago, he came hither
a still poorer simpleton than myself, but then he had such thorough
German enthusiasm for all that is sterling and genuine, either in
antiquity or art. How bravely and diligently did he not work his
way through all difficulties; and what good does it not do me,--the
remembrance of such a man in such a place!

After the objects of Nature, who in all her parts is true to herself
and consistent, nothing speaks so loudly as the remembrance of a good
intelligent man,--that genuine art which is no less consistent and
harmonious than herself. Here in Rome we feel this right well, where so
many an arbitrary caprice has had its day, where so many a folly has
immortalized itself by its power and its gold.

The following passage in Winckelmann's letters to Franconia
particularly pleased me. "We must look at all the objects in Rome with
a certain degree of phlegm, or else one will be taken for a Frenchman.
In Rome, I believe, is the high school for all the world, and I also
have been purified and tried in it."

This remark applies directly to my mode of visiting the different
objects here; and most certain is it, that out of Rome no one can have
an idea how one is schooled in Rome. One must, so to speak, be new
born, and one looks back on one's earlier notions, as a man does on
the little shoes, which fitted him when a child. The most ordinary man
learns something here, at least he gains one uncommon idea, even though
it never should pass into his whole being.

This letter will reach you in the new year. All good wishes for the
beginning; before the end of it we shall see one another again, and
that will be no little gratification. The one that is passing away has
been the most important of my life. I may now die, or I may tarry a
little longer yet; in either case it will be alike well. And now a word
or two more for the little ones.

To the children you may either read or tell what follows. Here there
are no signs of winter. The gardens are planted with evergreens; the
sun shines bright and warm; snow is nowhere to be seen, except on the
most distant hills towards the north. The citron trees, which are
planted against the garden walls, are now, one after another, covered
with reeds, but the oranges are allowed to stand quite open. A hundred
of the very finest fruit may be seen hanging on a single tree, which is
not, as with us, dwarfed, and planted in a bucket, but stands in the
earth free and joyous, amidst a long line of brothers. The oranges are
even now very good, but it is thought they will be still finer.

We were lately at the sea, and had a haul of fish, and drew to the
light fishes, crabs, and rare univalves of the most wonderful shapes
conceivable; also the fish which gives an electric shock to all who
touch it.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Dec._ 20, 1786.

And yet, after all, it is more trouble and care than enjoyment. The
Regenerator, which is changing me within and without, continues to
work. I certainly thought that I had something really to learn here;
but that I should have to take so low a place in the school, that I
must forget so much that I had learnt, or rather absolutely unlearn so
much,--that I had never the least idea of. Now, however, that I am once
convinced of its necessity, I have devoted myself to the task; and the
more I am obliged to renounce my former self, the more delighted I
am. I am like an architect who has begun to build a tower, but finds
he has laid a bad foundation: he becomes aware of the fact betimes,
and willingly goes to work to pull down all that he has raised above
the earth; having done so, he proceeds to enlarge his ground plan,
and now rejoices to anticipate the undoubted stability of his future
building. Heaven grant that, on my return, the moral consequences may
be discernible of all that this living in a wider world has effected
within me. For, in sooth, the moral sense as well as the artistic is
undergoing a great change.

[Sidenote: Rome--Dr. Münter.]

Dr. Münter is here on his return from his tour in Sicily--an energetic,
vehement man. What objects he may have, I cannot tell. He will reach
you in May, and has much to tell you. He has been two years travelling
in Italy. He is disgusted with the Italians, who have not paid due
respect to the weighty letters of recommendation which were to have
opened to him many an archive, many a private library; so that he is
far from having accomplished his object in coming here.

He has collected some beautiful coins, and possesses, he tells me,
a manuscript which reduces numismatics to as precise a system of
characteristics as the Linnæan system of botany. Herder, he says, knows
still more about it: probably a transcript of it will be permitted. To
do something of the kind is certainly possible, and, if well done, it
will be truly valuable; and we must sooner or later enter seriously
into this branch of learning.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Dec._ 25, 1786.

I am now beginning to revisit the principal sights of Rome: in such
second views, our first amazement generally dies away into more of
sympathy and a purer perception of the true value of the objects. In
order to form an idea of the highest achievements of the human mind,
the soul must first attain to perfect freedom from prejudice and
prepossession.

Marble is a rare material. It is on this account that the Apollo
Belvedere in the original is so infinitely ravishing; for that sublime
air of youthful freedom and vigour, of never-changing juvenescence,
which breathes around the marble, at once vanishes in the best even of
plaster casts.

In the Palace Rondanini, which is right opposite to our lodgings, there
is a Medusa-mask, above the size of life, in which the attempt to
portray a lofty and beautiful countenance in the numbing agony of death
has been indescribably successful. I possess an excellent cast of it,
but the charm of the marble remains not. The noble semi-transparency of
the yellow stone-approaching almost to the hue of flesh--is vanished.
Compared with it, the plaster of Paris has a chalky and dead look.

And yet how delightful it is to go to a modeller in gypsum, and to see
the noble limbs of a statue come out one by one from the mould, and
thereby to acquire wholly new ideas of their shapes. And then, again,
by such means all that in Rome is scattered, is brought together, for
the purpose of comparison; and this alone is of inestimable service.
Accordingly, I could not resist the temptation to procure a cast of the
colossal head of Jupiter. It stands right opposite to my bed, in a good
light, in order that I may address my morning devotions towards it.
With all its grandeur and dignity it has, however, given rise to one of
the funniest interludes possible.

Our old hostess, when she comes to make my bed, is generally followed
by her pet cat. Yesterday I was sitting in the great hall, and could
hear the old woman pursue her avocation within. On a sudden, in great
haste, and with an excitement quite unusual to her, she opens the door,
and calls to me to come quickly and see a wonder. To my question what
was the matter, she replied the cat was saying its prayers. Of the
animal she had long observed, she told me, that it had as much sense
as a Christian--but this was really a great wonder. I hastened to see
it with my own eyes; and it was indeed strange enough. The bust stood
on a high pedestal, and as there was a good length of the shoulders,
the head stood rather high. Now the cat had sprung upon the table, and
had placed her fore-feet on the breast of the god, and, stretching her
body to its utmost length, just reached with her muzzle his sacred
beard, which she was licking most ceremoniously; and neither by the
exclamation of the hostess, nor my entrance into the room, was she
at all disturbed. I left the good dame to her astonishment; and she
afterwards accounted for puss's strange act of devotion, by supposing
that this sharp-nosed cat had caught scent of the grease which had
probably been transferred from the mould to the deep lines of the
beard, and had there remained.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Dec._ 29, 1786.

Of Tischbein I have much to say and to boast. In the first place, a
thorough and original German, he has made himself entirely what he
is. In the next place, I must make grateful mention of the friendly
attentions he has shewn me throughout the time of his second stay in
Rome. For he has had prepared for me a series of copies after the best
masters, some in black chalk, others in sepia and water colours; which
in Germany, when I shall be at a distance from the originals, will grow
in value, and will serve to remind me of all that is rarest and best.

[Sidenote: Rome--Portrait by Tischbein.]

At the commencement of his career as an artist, when he set up as a
portrait painter, Tischbein came in contact, especially in Munich, with
distinguished personages, and in his intercourse with them his feeling
of art has been strengthened and his views enlarged.

The second part of the "_Zerstrente Blatter_" (stray leaves) I have
brought with me hither, and they are doubly welcome. What good
influence this little book has had on me, even on the second perusal,
Herder, for his reward, shall be circumstantially informed. Tischbein
cannot conceive how anything so excellent could ever have been written
by one who has never been in Italy.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Dec._ 29, 1786.

In this world of artists one lives, as it were, in a mirrored chamber,
where, without wishing it, one sees one's own image and those of others
continually multiplied. Latterly I have often observed Tischbein
attentively regarding me; and now it appears that he has long cherished
the idea of painting my portrait. His design is already settled, and
the canvass stretched. I am to be drawn of the size of life, enveloped
in a white mantle, and sitting on a fallen obelisk, viewing the ruins
of the Campagna di Roma, which are to fill up the background of the
picture. It will form a beautiful piece, only it mil be rather too
large for our northern habitations. I indeed may again crawl into them,
but the portrait will never be able to enter their doors.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Dec._ 29, 1786.

I cannot help observing the great efforts that are constantly being
made to draw me from my retirement--how the poets either read or get
their pieces read to me; and I should be blind did I not see that it
depends only on myself whether I shall play a part or not. All this is
amusing enough; for I have long since measured the lengths to which
one may go in Rome. The many little coteries here at the feet of the
mistress of the world strongly remind one occasionally of an ordinary
country town.

In sooth, things here are much like what they are every where else; and
what _could be done with me and through me_ causes me ennui long before
it is accomplished. Here you must take up with one party or another,
and help them to carry on their feuds and cabals; and you must praise
these artists and those dilettanti, disparage their rivals, and, above
all, be pleased with every thing that the rich and great do. All these
little meannesses, then, for the sake of which one is almost ready to
leave the world itself,--must I here mix myself up with them, and that
too when I have neither interest nor stake in them? No; I shall go no
further than is merely necessary to know what is going on, and thus to
learn, in private, to be more contented with my lot, and to procure
for myself and others all the pleasure possible in the dear wide
world. I wish to see Rome in its abiding and permanent features, and
not as it passes and changes with every ten years. Had I time, I might
wish to employ it better. Above all, one may study history here quite
differently from what one can on any other spot. In other places one
has, as it were, to read oneself into it from without; here one fancies
that he reads from within outwards: all arranges itself around you,
and seems to proceed from you. And this holds good not only of Roman
history, but also of that of the whole world. From Rome I can accompany
the conquerors on their march to the Weser or to the Euphrates; or,
if I wish to be a sight-seer, I can wait in the Via Sacra for the
triumphant generals, and in the meantime receive for my support the
largesses of corn and money; and so take a very comfortable share in
all the splendour.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Jan._ 2, 1787.

Men may say what they will in favour of a written and oral
communication; it is only in a very few cases indeed that it is at
all adequate, for it never can convey the true character of any
object soever--no, not even of a purely intellectual one. But if one
has already enjoyed a sure and steady view of the object, then one
may profitably hear or read about it, for then there exists a living
impression around which all else may arrange itself in the mind; and
then one can think and judge.

You have often laughed at me, and wished to drive me away from the
peculiar taste I had for examining stones, plants, or animals, from
certain theoretical points of view: now, however, I am directing my
attention to architects, statuaries, and painters, and hope to find
myself learning something even from them.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Without date._

After all this I must further speak to you of the state of indecision
I am in with regard to my stay in Italy. In my last letter I wrote you
that it was my purpose immediately after Easter to leave Rome, and
return home. Until then I shall yet gather a few more shells from the
shore of the great ocean, and so my most urgent needs will have been
appeased. I am now cured of a violent passion and disease, and restored
to the enjoyment of life, to the enjoyment of history, poetry, and of
antiquities, and have treasures which it will take me many a long year
to polish and to finish.

[Sidenote: Rome--My plans for the future.]

Recently, however, friendly voices have reached me to the effect that
I ought not to be in a hurry, but to wait till I can return home
with still richer gains. From the Duke, too, I have received a very
kind and considerate letter, in which he excuses me from my duties
for an indefinite period, and sets me quite at ease with respect to
my absence. My mind therefore turns to the vast field which I must
otherwise have left untrodden. For instance, in the case of coins and
cameos, I have as yet been able to do nothing. I have indeed begun to
read Winckelmann's History of Art, but have passed over Egypt; for, I
feel once again, that I must look out before me; and I have done so
with regard to Egyptian matters. The more we look, the more distant
becomes the horizon of art; and he who would step surely, must step
slowly.

I intend to stay here till the Carnival; and, in the first week of Lent
shall set off for Naples, taking Tischbein with me, both because it
will be a treat to him, and because, in his society, all my enjoyments
are more than doubled. I purpose to return hither before Easter,
for the sake of the solemnities of Passion week. But there Sicily
lies--there below. A journey thither requires more preparation, and
ought to be taken too in the autumn: it must not be merely a ride round
it and across it, which is soon done, but from which one brings away
with us in return for our fatigue and money nothing but a simple--_I
have seen it._ The best way is to take up one's quarters, first of all,
in Palermo, and afterwards in Catania; and then from those points to
make fixed and profitable excursions, having previously, however, well
studied _Riedesel_ and others on the locality.

If, then, I spend the summer in Rome, I shall set to work to study,
and to prepare myself for visiting Sicily. As I cannot well go there
before November, and must stay there till over December, it will be the
spring of 1788 before I can hope to get home again. Then, again, I have
had before my mind a _medius terminus._ Giving up the idea of visiting
Sicily, I have thought of spending a part of the summer at Rome, and
then, after paying a second visit to Florence, getting home by the
autumn.

But all these plans have been much perplexed by the news of the Duke's
misfortune. Since the letters which informed me of this event I have
had no rest, and would most like to set off at Easter, laden with the
fragments of my conquests, and, passing quickly through Upper Italy, be
in Weimar again by June.

I am too much alone here to decide; and I write you this long story of
my whole position, that you may be good enough to summon a council of
those who love me, and who, being on the spot, know the circumstances
better than I do. Let them, therefore, determine the proper course for
me to take, on the supposition of what, I assure you, is the fact, that
I am myself more disposed to return than to stay. The strongest tie
that holds me in Italy is Tischbein. I should never, even should it
be my happy lot to return a second time to this beautiful land, learn
so much in so short a time as I have now done in the society of this
well-educated, highly refined, and most upright man who is devoted to
me both body and soul. I cannot now tell you how thickly the scales are
falling from off my eyes. He who travels by night, takes the dawn for
day, and a murky day for brightness: what will he think, then, when
he shall see the sun ascending the mid-heaven? For I have hitherto
kept myself from all the world, which yet is yearning to catch me by
degrees, and which I, for my part, was not unwilling to watch and
observe with stealthy glances.

I have written to Fritz a joking account of my reception into the
_Arcadia_; and indeed it is only a subject of joke, for the Institute
is really sunk into miserable insignificance.

Next Monday week Monti's tragedy is to be acted. He is extremely
anxious, and not without cause. He has a very troublesome public,
which requires to be amused from moment to moment; and his piece has
no brilliant passages in it. He has asked me to go with him to his
box, and to stand by him as confessor in this critical moment. Another
is ready to translate my "Iphigenia;" another--to do I know not what,
in honour of me. They are all so divided into parties, and so bitter
against each other. But my countrymen are so unanimous in my favour,
that if I gave them any encouragement, and yielded to them in the very
least, they would try a hundred follies with me, and end with crowning
me on the Capitol, of which they have already seriously thought--so
foolish is it to have a stranger and a Protestant to play the first
part in a comedy. What connexion there is in all this, and how great
a fool I was to think that it was all intended for my honour,--of all
this we will talk together one day.

       *       *       *       *       *

_January_ 6, 1787.

I have just come from Moritz, whose arm is healed, and loosed from its
bandages. It is well set, firm, and he can move it quite freely. What
during these last forty days I have experienced and learned, as nurse,
confessor, and private secretary to this patient, may prove of benefit
to us hereafter. The most painful sufferings and the noblest enjoyments
went side by side throughout this whole period.

[Sidenote: Rome--Colossal head of Juno.]

To refresh me, I yesterday had set up in our sitting-room a cast of a
colossal head of Juno, of which the original is in the Villa Ludovisi.
This was my first love in Rome; and now I have gained the object of my
wishes. No words can give the remotest idea of it. It is like one of
Homer's songs.

I have, however, deserved the neighbourhood of such good society
for the future, for I can now tell you that Iphigenia is at last
finished--_i.e._ that it lies before me on the table in two tolerably
concordant copies, of which one will very soon begin its pilgrimage
towards yourself. Receive it with all indulgence, for, to speak the
truth, what stands on the paper is not exactly what I intended; but
still it will convey an idea of what was in my mind.

You complain occasionally of some obscure passages in my letters, which
allude to the oppression, which I suffer in the midst of the most
glorious objects in the world. With all this my fellow traveller, this
Grecian princess, has had a great deal to do, for she has kept me close
at work when I wished to be seeing sights.

I often think of our worthy friend, who had long determined upon a
grand tour, which one might well term a voyage of discovery. After he
had studied and economized several years, with a view to this object,
he took it in his head to carry away with him the daughter of a noble
house, thinking it was all one still.

With no less of caprice, I determined to take Iphigenia with me to
Carlsbad. I will now briefly enumerate the places where I held special
converse with her.

When I had left behind me the Brenner, I took her out of my large
portmanteau, and placed her by my side. At the Lago di Garda, while
the strong south wind drove the waves on the beach, and where I was
at least as much alone as my heroine on the coast of Tauris, I drew
the first outlines, which afterwards I filled up at Verona, Vicenza,
and Padua; but above all, and most diligently at Venice. After
this, however, the work came to a stand-still, for I hit upon a new
design, viz., of writing an Iphigenia at Delphi, which I should have
immediately carried into execution, but for the distractions of my
young, and for a feeling of duty towards the older piece.

In Rome, however, I went on with it, and proceeded with tolerable
steadiness. Every evening before I went to sleep I prepared myself for
my morning's task, which was resumed immediately I awoke. My way of
proceeding was quite simple. I calmly wrote down the piece, and tried
the melody line by line, and period by period. What has been thus
produced, you shall soon judge of. For my part, doing this work, I have
learnt more than I have done. With the piece itself there shall follow
some further remarks.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Jan._ 6, 1787.

To speak again of church matters, I must tell you that on the night of
Christmas-day we wandered about in troops, and visited all the churches
where solemn services were being performed; one especially was visited,
because of its organ and music. The latter was so arranged, that in
its tones nothing belonging to pastoral music was wanting--neither the
singing of the shepherds, nor the twittering of birds, nor the bleating
of sheep.

[Sidenote: Rome--Christmas-day.]

On Christmas-day I saw the Pope and the whole consistory in S. Peter's,
where he celebrated high mass partly before and partly from his
throne. It is of its kind an unequalled sight, splendid and dignified
enough, but I have grown so old in my Protestant Diogenism, that this
pomp and splendour revolt more than they attract me. I, like my pious
forefathers, am disposed to say to these spiritual conquerors of the
world, "Hide not from me the sun of higher art and purer humanity."

Yesterday, which was the Feast of Epiphany, I saw and heard mass
celebrated after the Greek rite. The ceremonies appeared to me more
solemn, more severe, more suggestive, and yet more popular than the
Latin.

But there, too, I also felt again that I am too old for anything,
except for truth alone. Their ceremonies and operatic music, their
gyrations and ballet-like movements--it all passes off from me like
water from an oilskin cloak. A work of nature, however, like that of
a Sunset seen from the Villa Madonna--a work of art, like my much
honoured Juno, makes a deep and vivid impression on me.

And now I must ask you to congratulate me with regard to theatrical
matters. Next week seven theatres will be opened. Anfossi himself
is here, and will act "Alexander in India." A Cyrus also will be
represented, and the "Taking of Troy" as a ballet. That assuredly must
be something for the children!

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Jan._ 10, 1787.

Here, then, comes the "child of sorrows," for this surname is due
to "Iphigenia" in more than one sense. On the occasion of my reading
it out to our artists, I put a mark against several lines, some of
which I have in my opinion improved, but others I have allowed to
stand--perhaps Herder will cross a few of them with his pen.

The true cause of my having for many years preferred prose for my
works, is the great uncertainty in which our prosody fluctuates, in
consequence of which many of my judicious, learned friends and fellow
artists have left many things to taste, a course, however, which was
little favourable to the establishing of any certain standard.

I should never have attempted to translate "Iphigenia" into iambics,
had not Moritz's prosody shone upon me like a star of light. My
conversation with its author, especially during his confinement from
his accident, has still more enlightened me on the subject, and I would
recommend my friends to think favourably of it.

It is somewhat singular, that in our language we have but very few
syllables which are decidedly long or short. With all the others,
one proceeds as taste or caprice may dictate. Now Moritz, after much
thought, has hit upon the idea that there is a certain order of rank
among our syllables, and that the one which in sense is more emphatic
is long as compared with the less significant, and makes the latter
short, but on the other hand, it does in its turn become short,
whenever it comes into the neighbourhood of another which possesses
greater weight and emphasis than itself. Here, then, is at least a rule
to go by: and even though it does not decide the whole matter, still it
opens out a path by which one may hope to get a little further. I have
often allowed myself to be influenced by these rules, and generally
have found my ear agreeing with them.

As I formerly spoke of a public reading, I must quietly tell you how it
passed off. These young men accustomed to those earlier vehement and
impetuous pieces, expected something after the fashion of Berlichingen,
and could not so well make out the calm movement of "Iphigenia," and
yet the nobler and purer passages did not fail of effect, Tischbein,
who also could hardly reconcile himself to this entire absence of
passion, produced a pretty illustration or symbol of the work. He
illustrated it by a sacrifice, of which the smoke, borne down by a
light breeze, descends to the earth, while the freer flame strives to
ascend on high. The drawing was very pretty and significant. I have
the sketch still by me. And thus the work, which I thought to despatch
in no time, has employed, hindered, occupied, and tortured me a full
quarter of a year. This is not the first time that I have made an
important task a mere by-work; but we will on that subject no longer
indulge in fancies and disputes.

I inclose a beautiful cameo,--a lion with a gad-fly buzzing at his
nose; this seems to have been a favourite subject with the ancients,
for they have repeated it very often. I should like you from this
time forward to seal your letters with it, in order that through this
(little) trifle an echo of art may, as it were, reverberate from you to
me.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Jan._ 13, 1787.

How much have I to say each day, and how sadly am I prevented, either
by amusement or occupation, from committing to paper a single sage
remark! And then again, the fine days when it is better to be anywhere
rather than in one's room, which, without stove or chimney, receive us
only to sleep or to discomfort! Some of the incidents of the last week,
however, must not be left unrecorded.

In the Palace Giustiniani there is a Minerva, which claims my undivided
homage. Winckelmann scarcely mentions it, and, at any rate, not in the
right place; and I feel myself quite unworthy to say anything about
it. As we contemplated the image, and stood gazing at it a long time,
the wife of the keeper of the collection said--This must have once
been a holy image; and the English, who happen to be of this religion,
are still accustomed to pay worship to it by kissing this hand of it,
(which in truth was quite white, while the rest of the statue was
brownish). She further told us, that a lady of _this_ religion had
been there not long before, and, throwing herself on her knees before
the statue, had regularly offered prayer to it; and I, she said, as a
Christian, could not help smiling at so strange an action, and was
obliged to run out of the room, lest I should burst out into a loud
laugh before her face. As I was unwilling to move from the statue, she
asked me if my beloved was at all like the statue that it charmed me so
much. The good dame knew of nothing besides devotion or love; but of
the pure admiration for a glorious piece of man's handiwork,--of a mere
sympathetic veneration for the creation of the human intellect, she
could form no idea. We rejoiced in that noble Englishwoman, and went
away with a longing to turn our steps back again, and I shall certainly
soon go once more thither. If my friends wish for a more particular
description, let them read what Winckelmann says of the high style
of art among the Greeks; unfortunately, however, he does not adduce
this Minerva as an illustration. But if I do not greatly err, it is,
nevertheless, of this high and severe style, since it passes into the
beautiful,--it is, as it were, a bud that opens,--and so a Minerva,
whose character this idea of transition so well suits.

Now for a spectacle of a different kind. On the feast of the Three
Kings, or the Commemoration of Christ's manifestation to the Gentiles,
we paid a visit to the Propaganda. There, in the presence of three
cardinals and a large audience, an essay was first of all delivered,
which treated of the place in which the Virgin Mary received the three
Magi,--in the stable,--or if not, where? Next, some Latin verses were
read on similar subjects, and after this a series of about thirty
scholars came forward, one by one, and read a little piece of poetry
in their native tongues; Malabar, Epirotic, Turkish, Moldavian,
Hellenic, Persian, Colchian, Hebrew, Arabic, Syrian, Coptic, Saracenic,
Armenian, Erse, Madagassic, Icelandic, Bohemian, Greek, Isaurian,
Æthiopic, &c. The poems seemed for the most part to be composed in the
national syllabic measure, and to be delivered with the vernacular
declamation, for most barbaric rhythms and tones occurred. Among them
the Greek sounded like a star in the night. The auditory laughed most
unmercifully at the strange sounds; and so this representation also
became a farce.

And now (before concluding) a little anecdote, to show with what levity
holy things are treated in Holy Home. The deceased cardinal, Albani,
was once present at one of those festal meetings which. I have just
been describing. One of the scholars, with his face turned towards the
Cardinals, began in a strange pronunciation, _Gnaja! Gnaja!_ so that it
sounded something like _canaglia! canaglia!_ The Cardinal turned to his
brothers with a whisper, "He knows us at any rate."

       *       *       *       *       *

_January_ 13, 1787.

How much has Winckelmann done, and yet how much reason has he left us
to wish that he had done still more. With the materials which he had
collected he built quickly, in order to reach the roof. Were he still
living, he would be the first to give us a re-cast of his great work.
What further observations, what corrections would he not have made--to
what good use would he not have put all that others, following his own
principles, have observed and effected. And, besides, Cardinal Albani
is dead, out of respect to whom he has written much; and, perhaps,
concealed much.

       *       *       *       *       *

_January_ 15, 1787.

And so then, "Aristodemo" has at last been acted, and with good success
too, and the greatest applause; as the Abbate Monti is related to the
house of the Nepoté, and is highly esteemed among the higher orders:
from these, therefore, all was to be hoped for. The boxes indeed were
but sparing in their plaudits; as for the pit, it was won from the
very first, by the beautiful language of the poet and the appropriate
recitation of the actors, and it omitted no opportunity of testifying
its approbation. The bench of the German artists distinguished itself
not a little; and this time they were quite in place, though it is at
all times a little overloud.

[Sidenote: Rome--Monti, "Aristodemo."]

The author himself remained at home, full of anxiety for the success of
the piece. From act to act favourable despatches arrived, which changed
his fear into the greatest joy. Now there is no lack of repetitions of
the representation, and all is on the best track. Thus, by the most
opposite things, if only each has the merit it claims, the favour of
the multitude, as well as of the connoisseur, may be won.

But the acting was in the highest degree meritorious, and the chief
actor, who appears throughout the piece, spoke and acted cleverly,--one
could almost fancy one of the ancient Cæsars was marching before us.
They had very judiciously transferred to their stage dresses the
costume which, in the statue, strikes the spectator as so dignified;
and one saw at once that the actor had studied the antique.

       *       *       *       *       *

_January_ 18, 1787.

Rome is threatened with a great artistic loss. The King of Naples has
ordered the Hercules Farnese to be brought to his palace. The news has
made all the artists quite sad; however, on this occasion, we shall see
something which was hidden from our forefathers.

The aforesaid statue, namely, from the head to the knee, with the lower
part of the feet, together with the sockle on which it stood, were
found within the Farnesian domain, but the legs from the knee to the
ancle were wanting, and had been supplied by Giuglielmo Porta; on these
it had stood since its discovery to the present day. In the mean time,
however, the genuine old legs were found in the lands of the Borghesi,
and were to be seen in their villa.

Recently, however, the Prince Borghese has achieved a, victory over
himself, and has made a present of these costly relics to the King
of Naples. The legs by Porta are being removed, and the genuine ones
replaced; and every one is promising himself, however well contented
he has been hitherto with the old, quite a new treat, and a more
harmonious enjoyment.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, January_ 18, 1787.

Yesterday, which was the festival of the Holy Abbot S. Antony, we had
a merry day; the weather was the finest in the world; though there had
been a hard frost during the night, the day was bright and warm.

One may remark, that all religions which enlarge their worship or their
speculations must at last come to this, of making the brute creation
in some degree partakers of spiritual favours. S. Anthony,--Abbot or
Bishop,--is the patron Saint of all four-footed creatures; his festival
is a kind of Saturnalian holiday for the otherwise oppressed beasts,
and also for their keepers and drivers. All the gentry must on this day
either remain at home, or else be content to travel on foot. And there
are no lack of fearful stories, which tell how unbelieving masters,
who forced their coachmen to drive them on this day, were punished by
suffering great calamities.

[Sidenote: Rome--Death of Frederick the Great.]

The church of the Saint lies in so wide and open a district, that it
might almost be called a desert. On this day, however, it is full of
life and fun. Horses and mules, with their manes and tails prettily,
not to say gorgeously, decked out with ribbons, are brought before
the little chapel, (which stands at some distance from the church,)
where a priest, armed with a brush, and not sparing of the holy water,
which stands before him in buckets and tubs, goes on sprinkling the
lively creatures, and often plays them a roguish trick, in order to
make them start and frisk. Pious coachmen offer their wax-tapers, of
larger or smaller size; the masters send alms and presents, in order
that the valuable and useful animals may go safely through the coming
year without hurt or accidents. The donkies and horned cattle, no less
valuable and useful to their owners, have, likewise, their modest share
in this blessing.

Afterwards we delighted ourselves with a long walk under a delicious
sky, and surrounded by the most interesting objects, to which, however,
we this time paid very little attention, but gave full scope and rein
to joke and merriment.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, January_ 19, 1787.

So then the great king, whose glory filled the world, whose deeds make
him worthy even of the Papists' paradise, has departed this life, and
gone to converse with heroes like himself in the realm of shades. How
disposed does one feel to sit still when such an one is gone to his
rest.

This has been a very good day. First of all we visited a part of the
Capitol, which we had previously neglected; then we crossed the Tiber,
and drank some Spanish wine on board a ship which had just come into
port:--it was on this spot that Romulus and Remus are said to have
been found. Thus keeping, as it were, a double or treble festival,
we revelled in the inspiration of art, of a mild atmosphere, and of
antiquarian reminiscences.

_January_ 20, 1787.

What at first furnishes a hearty enjoyment, when we take it
superficially only, often weighs on us afterwards most oppressively,
when we see that without solid knowledge the true delight must be
missed.

As regards anatomy, I am pretty well prepared, and I have, not without
some labour, gained a tolerable knowledge of the human frame; for the
continual examination of the ancient statues is continually stimulating
one to a more perfect understanding of it. In our Medico Chirurgical
Anatomy, little more is in view than an acquaintance with the several
parts, and for this purpose the _sorriest picture of the muscles_ may
serve very well; but in Rome the most exquisite parts would not even be
noticed, unless as helping to make a noble and beautiful form.

In the great Lazaretto of San Spirito there has been prepared for the
use of the artists a very fine anatomical figure, displaying the whole
muscular system. Its beauty is really amazing. It might pass for some
flayed demigod,--even a Marsyas.

Thus, after the example of the ancients, men here study the human
skeleton, not merely as an artistically arranged series of bones, but
rather for the sake of the ligaments with which life and motion are
carried on.

When now I tell you, that in the evening we also study perspective, it
must be pretty plain to you that we are not idle. With all our studies,
however, we are always hoping to do more than we ever accomplish.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, January_ 22, 1787.

Of the artistic sense of Germans, and of their artistic life, of these
one may well say,--One hears sounds, but they are not in unison. When
now I bethink myself what glorious objects are in my neighbourhood, and
how little I have profited by them, I am almost tempted to despair; but
then again I console myself with my promised return, when I hope to be
able to understand these master-pieces, around which now I go groping
miserably in the dark.

But, in fact, even in Rome itself, there is but little provision
made for one who earnestly wishes to study art as a whole. He must
patch it up and put it together for himself out of endless but still
gorgeously rich ruins. No doubt but few only of those who visit Rome,
are purely and earnestly desirous to see and to learn things rightly
and thoroughly. They all follow, more or less, their own fancies
and conceits, and this is observed by all alike who attend upon the
strangers. Every guide has his own object, every one has his own dealer
to recommend, his own artist to favour; and why should he not? for does
not the inexperienced at once prize, as most excellent, whatever may be
presented to him as such?

[Sidenote: Rome--The removal of Antiques.]

It would have been a great benefit to the study of art--indeed a
peculiarly rich museum might have been formed--if the government,
(whose permission even at present must be obtained before any piece
of antiquity can be removed from the city,) had on such occasions
invariably insisted on casts being delivered to it of the objects
removed. Besides, if any Pope had established such a rule, before
long every one would have opposed all further removals; for in a few
years people would have been frightened at the number and value of the
treasures thus carried off, for which, even now, permission can only be
obtained by secret influence.

       *       *       *       *       *

_January_ 22, 1787.

The representation of the "Aristodemo" has stimulated, in an especial
degree, the patriotism of our German artists, which before was far
from being asleep. They never omit an occasion to speak well of my
"Iphigenia;" some passages have from time to time been again called
for, and I have found myself at last compelled to a second reading of
the whole. And thus also I have discovered many passages winch went off
the tongue more smoothly than they look on the paper.

The favorable report of it has at last sounded even in the ears of
Reiffenstein and Angelica, who entreated that I should produce my
work once more for their gratification. I begged, however, for a
brief respite, though I was obliged to describe to them, somewhat
circumstantially, the plan and movement of the plot. The description
won the approbation of these person ages more even than I could have
hoped for; and Signor Zucchi also, of whom I least of all expected
it, evinced a warm and liberal sympathy with the piece. The latter
circumstance, however, is easily accounted for by the fact that the
drama approximates very closely to the old and customary form of Greek,
French, and Italian tragedy, which is most agreeable to every one whose
taste has not been spoilt by the temerities of the English stage.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Jan._ 25, 1787.

It becomes every day more difficult to fix the termination of my stay
in Rome; just as one finds the sea continually deeper the further one
sails on it, so it is also with the examination of this city.

It is impossible to understand the present without a knowledge of the
past; and to compare the two, requires both time and leisure. The very
site of the city carries us back to the time of its being founded. We
see at once that no great people, under a wise leader, settled here
from its wanderings, and with wise forecast laid the foundations of the
seat of future empire. No powerful prince would ever have selected this
spot as well suited for the habitation of a colony. No; herdsmen and
vagabonds first prepared here a dwelling for themselves: a couple of
adventurous youths laid the foundation of the palaces of the masters of
the world on _the_ hill at whose foot, amidst the marshes and the silt,
they had defied the officers of law and justice. Moreover, the seven
hills of Rome are not elevations above the land which lies beyond them,
but merely above the Tiber and its ancient bed, which afterwards became
the Campus Martius. If the coming spring is favourable to my making
wider excursions in the neighbourhood, I shall be able to describe
more fully the unfavourable site. Even now I feel the most heartfelt
sympathy with the grief and lamentation of the women of Alba whey they
saw their city destroyed, and were forced to leave its beautiful site,
the choice of a wise prince and leader, to share the fogs of the Tiber,
and to people the miserable Cœlian hill, from which their eyes still
fell upon the paradise they had been drawn from.

I know as yet but little of the neighbourhood, but I am perfectly
convinced that no city of the ancient world was worse situated than
Rome: no wonder, then, if the Romans, as soon as they had swallowed up
all the neighbouring states, went out of it, and, with their villas,
returned to the noble sites of the cities they had destroyed, in order
to live and to enjoy life.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Jan._ 25, 1787.

It suggests a very pleasing contemplation to think how many people are
living here in retirement, calmly occupied with their several tastes
and pursuits. In the house of a clergyman, who, without any particular
natural talent, has nevertheless devoted himself to the arts, we saw
most interesting copies of some excellent paintings which he had
imitated in miniature. His most successful attempt was after the Last
Supper of Leonardo da Vinci. The moment of time is when the Lord, who
is sitting familiarly at supper with his disciples, utters the awful
words, "One of you shall betray me."

Hopes are entertained that he will allow an engraving to be taken
either of this or of another copy, on which he is at present engaged.
It will be indeed a rich present to give to the great public a faithful
imitation of this gem of art.

[Sidenote: Rome-Father Jacquier.]

A few days since I visited, at the Trinità de' Monte, Father Jacquier,
a Franciscan. He is a Frenchman by birth, and well known by his
mathematical writings; and although far advanced in years, is still
very agreeable and intelligent. He has been acquainted with all the
most distinguished men of his day, and has even spent several months
with Voltaire, who had a great liking for him.

I have also become acquainted with many more of such good, sterling
men, of whom countless numbers are to be found here, whom, however,
a sort of professional mistrust keeps estranged from each other. The
book-trade furnishes no point of union, and literary novelties are
seldom fruitful; and so it befits the solitary to seek out the hermits.
For since the acting of "Aristodemo," in whose favour we made a very
lively demonstration, I have been again much sought after. But it was
quite clear I was not sought for my own sake; it was always with a view
to strengthen a party--to use me as an instrument; and if I had been
willing to come forward and declare my side, I also, as a phantom,
should for a time have played a short part. But now, since they see
that nothing is to be made of me, they let me pass; and so I go
steadily on my own way.

Indeed, my existence has lately taken in some ballast, which gives it
the necessary gravity. I do not now frighten myself with the spectres
which used so often to play before my eyes. Be, therefore, of good
heart. You will keep me above water, and draw me back again to you.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Jan._ 28, 1787.

Two considerations which more or less affect every thing, and which one
is compelled at every moment to give way to, I must not fail to set
down, now that they have become quite clear to me.

First of all, then, the vast and yet merely fragmentary riches of this
city, and each single object of art, is constantly suggesting the
question, To what date does it owe its existence? Winckelmann urgently
calls upon us to separate epochs, to distinguish the different styles
which the several masters employed, and the way in which, in the course
of time, they gradually perfected them, and at last corrupted them
again. Of the necessity of so doing, every real friend of art is soon
thoroughly convinced. We all acknowledge the justice and the importance
of the requisition. But now, how to attain to this conviction? However
clearly and correctly the notion itself may be conceived, yet without
long preparatory labours there will always be a degree of vagueness and
obscurity as to the particular application. A sure eye, strengthened by
many years' exercise, is above all else necessary. Here hesitation or
reserve are of no avail. Attention, however, is now directed to this
point; and every one who is in any degree in earnest seems convinced
that in this domain a sure judgment is impossible, unless it has been
formed by historical study.

The second consideration refers exclusively to the arts of the Greeks,
and endeavours to ascertain how those inimitable artists proceeded
in their successful attempts to evolve from the human form their
system of divine types, which is so perfect and complete, that neither
any leading character nor any intermediate shade or transition is
wanting. For my part, I cannot withhold the conjecture that they
proceeded according to the same laws that Nature works by, and which
I am endeavouring to discover. Only, there is in them something more
besides, which it is impossible to express.

[Sidenote: Rome--The Coliseum.]

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Feb._ 2, 1787.

Of the beauty of a walk through Rome by moonlight it is impossible to
form a conception, without having witnessed it. All single objects
are swallowed up by the great masses of light and shade, and nothing
but grand and general outlines present themselves to the eye. For
three several days we have enjoyed to the full the brightest and
most glorious of nights. Peculiarly beautiful at such a time is the
Coliseum. At night it is always closed; a hermit dwells in a little
shrine within its range, and beggars of all kinds nestle beneath its
crumbling arches: the latter had lit a fire on the arena, and a gentle
wind bore down the smoke to the ground, so that the lower portion
of the ruins was quite hid by it, while above the vast walls stood
out in deeper darkness before the eye. As we stopped at the gate
to contemplate the scene through the iron gratings, the moon shone
brightly in the heavens above. Presently the smoke found its way up
the sides, and through every chink and opening, while the moon lit it
up like a cloud. The sight was exceedingly glorious. In such a light
one ought also to see the Pantheon, the Capitol, the Portico of St.
Peter's, and the other grand streets and squares:--and thus sun and
moon, like the human mind, have quite a different work to do here from
elsewhere, where the vastest and yet the most elegant of masses present
themselves to their rays.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Feb._ 13, 1787.

I must mention a trifling fall of luck, even though it is but a little
one. However, all luck, whether great or little, is of one kind, and
always brings a joy with it. Near the Trinità de' Monte the ground has
been lately dug up to form a foundation for the new Obelisk, and now
the whole of this region is choked up with the ruins of the Gardens of
Lucullus, which subsequently became the property of the Emperors. My
perruquier was passing early one morning by the spot, and found in the
pile of earth a flat piece of burnt clay, with some figures on it.
Having washed it, he showed it to me. I eagerly secured the treasure.
It is not quite a hand long, and seems to have been part of the stem
of a great key. Two old men stand before an altar; they are of the
most beautiful workmanship, and I am uncommonly delighted with my new
acquisition. Were they on a cameo, one would greatly like to use it as
a seal.

I have by me a collection also of many other objects, and none is
worthless or unmeaning,--for that is impossible; here everything is
instructive and significant. But my dearest treasure, however, is even
that which I carry with me in my soul, and which, every growing, is
capable of a still greater growth.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Feb._ 15, 1787.

Before departing for Naples, I could not get off from another public
reading of my "Iphigenia." Madam Angelica and Hofrath Reiffenstein
were the auditory, and even Signor Zucchi had solicited to be present,
because it was the wish of his spouse. While it was reading, however,
he worked away at a great architectural plan--for he is very skilful in
executing drawings of this kind, and especially the decorative parts.
He went with Clerisseau to Dalmatia, and was the associate of all his
labours, drawing the buildings and ruins for the plates, which the
latter published. In this occupation he learned so much of perspective
and effect, that in his old days he is able to amuse himself on paper
in a very rational manner.

The tender soul of Angelica listened to the piece with incredible
profoundness of sympathy. She promised me a drawing of one of the
scenes, which I am to keep in remembrance of her. And now, just as I am
about to quit Rome, I begin to feel myself tenderly attached to these
kindhearted people. It is a source of mingled feelings of pleasure and
regret to know that people are sorry to part with you.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Feb._ 16, 1787.

The safe arrival of "Iphigenia" has been announced to me in a most
cheering and agreeable way. On my way to the Opera, a letter from a
well-known hand was brought to me,--this time doubly welcome; since it
was sealed with the "Lion" a premonitory token of the safe arrival of
my packet. I hurried into the Opera-house, and bustled to get a place
among the strange faces beneath the great chandelier. At this moment
I felt myself drawn so close to my friends, that I could almost have
sprung forward to embrace them. From my heart I thank you even for
having simply mentioned the arrival of the "Iphigenia," may your next
be accompanied with a few kind words of approval.

Inclosed is the list of those among whom I wish the copies which I
am to expect from Gösche to be distributed; for although it is with
me a perfect matter of indifference how the public may receive these
matters, still I hope by them to furnish slight gratification to my
friends at least.

One undertakes too much. When I think on my last four volumes together,
I become almost giddy--I am obliged to think of them separately, and
then the fit passes off.

[Sidenote: Rome--"Iphigenia"--"Tasso."]

I should perhaps have done better had I kept my first resolution to
send these things one by one into the world, and so undertake with
fresh vigour and courage the new subjects which have most recently
awakened my sympathy. Should I not, perhaps, do better were I to write
the "Iphigenia at Delphi," instead of amusing myself with my fanciful
sketches of "Tasso." However, I have bestowed upon the latter too much
of my thoughts to give it up, and let it fall to the ground.

I am sitting in the ante-room near the chimney, and the warmth of a
fire, for once well fed, gives me courage to commence a fresh sheet,
for it is indeed a glorious thing to be able, with our newest thoughts,
to reach into the distance, and by words to convey thither an idea
of one's immediate state and circumstances. The weather is right
glorious, the days are sensibly lengthening, the laurels and box are
in blossom, as also are the almond-trees. Early this morning I was
delighted with a strange sight; I saw in the distance tall, pole-like
trees, covered over and over with the loveliest violet flowers. On a
closer examination I found it was the plant known in our hothouses as
the Judas-tree, and to botanists as the "_cercis siliquastrum._" Its
papilionaceous violet blossoms are produced directly from out of the
stem. The stakes which I saw had been lopped last winter, and out of
their bark well-shaped and deeply-tinted flowers were bursting by
thousands. The daisies are also springing out of the ground as thick as
ants; the crocus and the pheasant's eye are more rare, but even on this
account more rich and ornamental.

What pleasures and what lessons will not the more southern land impart
to me, and what new results will arise to me from them! With the things
of nature it is as with those of art; much as is written about them,
every one who sees them forms them into new combinations for himself.

When I think of Naples, and indeed of Sicily,--when I read their
history, or look at views of them, it strikes me as singular that
it should be even in these paradises of the world that the volcanic
mountains manifest themselves so violently, for thousands of years
alarming and confounding their inhabitants.

But I willingly drive out of my head the expectation of these
much-prized scenes, in order that they may not lessen my enjoyment of
the capital of the whole world before I leave it.

For the last fourteen days I have been moving about from morning to
night; I am raking up everything I have not yet seen. I am also viewing
for a second or even a third time all the most important objects,
and they are all arranging themselves in tolerable order within my
mind: for while the chief objects are taking their right places,
there is space and room between them for many a less important one.
My enthusiasm is purifying itself, and becoming more decided, and now
at last my mind can rise to the height of the greatest and purest
creations of art with calm admiration.

In my situation one is tempted to envy the artist who, by copies and
imitations of some kind or other can, as it were, come near to those
great conceptions, and can grasp them better than one who merely looks
at and reflects upon them. In the end, however, every one feels he must
do his best; and so I set all the sails of my intellect, in the hope of
getting round this coast.

The stove is at present thoroughly warm, and piled up with excellent
coals, which is seldom the case with us, as no one scarcely has time
or inclination to attend to the fire two whole hours together; I will
therefore avail myself of this agreeable temperature to rescue from my
tablets a few notes which are almost obliterated.

On the 2nd of February we attended the ceremony of blessing the tapers
in the Sistine chapel. I was in anything but a good humour, and shortly
went off again with my friends; for I thought to myself those are the
very candles which, for these three hundred years, have been dimming
those noble paintings, and it is their smoke which, with priestly
impudence, not merely hangs in clouds around the only sun of art, but
from year to year obscures it more and more, and will at last envelop
it in total darkness.

[Sidenote: Rome--Tasso's burial-place.]

We therefore sought the free air, and after a long walk came upon S.
Onofrio's, in a corner of which Tasso is buried. In the library of the
monastery there is a bust of him, the face is of wax, and I please
myself with fancying that it was taken after death: although the lines
have lost some of their sharpness, and it is in some parts injured,
still on the whole it serves better than any other I have yet seen
to convey an idea of a talented, sensitive, and refined but reserved
character.

So much for this time. I must now turn to glorious Volckmann's 2nd
part, which contains Rome, and which I have not yet seen. Before I
start for Naples, the harvest must be housed; good days are coming for
binding the sheaves.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Feb._ 17, 1787.

The weather is incredibly and inexpressibly beautiful; for the whole
of February, with the exception of four rainy days, a pure bright sky,
and the days towards noon almost too warm. One is tempted out into
the open air, and if till lately one spent all one's time in the city
among gods and heroes, the country has now all at once resumed its
rights, and one can scarcely tear oneself from the surrounding scenes,
lit up as they are with the most glorious days. Many a time does the
remembrance come across me how our northern artists labour to gain
a charm from thatched roofs and ruined towers--how they turn round
and round every bush and bourne, and crumbling rock, in the hope of
catching some picturesque effect; and I have been quite surprised at
myself, when I find these things from habit still retaining a hold upon
me. Be this as it may, however, within these last fourteen days I have
plucked up a little courage, and, sketch-book in hand, have wandered
up and down the hollows and heights of the neighbouring villas, and,
without much consideration, have sketched off a few little objects
characteristically southern, and Roman, and am now trying (if good luck
will come to my aid) to give them the requisite lights and shades.

It is a singular fact, that it is easy enough to clearly see and to
acknowledge what is good and the excellent, but that when one attempts
to make them one's own, and to grasp them, somehow or other they slip
away, as it were, from between one's fingers; and we apprehend them,
not by the standard of the true and right, but in accordance with
our previous habits of thought and tastes. It is only by constant
practice that we can hope to improve; but where am I to find time and a
collection of models? Still I do feel myself a little improved by the
sincere and earnest efforts of the last fourteen days.

The artists are ready enough with their hints and instructions, for I
am quick in apprehending them. But then the lesson so quickly learnt
and understood, is not so easily put in practice. To apprehend quickly
is, forsooth, the attribute of the mind, but correctly to execute that,
requires the practice of a life.

And yet the amateur, however weak may be his efforts at imitation,
need not be discouraged. The few lines which I scratch upon the paper
often hastily, seldom correctly facilitate any conception of sensible
objects; for one advances to an idea more surely and more steadily the
more accurately and precisely he considers individual objects.

Only it will not do to measure oneself with artists; every one must
go on in his own style. For Nature has made provision for all her
children; the meanest is not hindered in its existence even by that
of the most excellent. "A little man is still a man;" and with this
remark, we will let the matter drop.

I have seen the sea twice-first the Adriatic, then the Mediterranean,
but only just to look at it. In Naples we hope to become better
acquainted with it. All within me seems suddenly to urge me on: why not
sooner--why not at a less sacrifice? How many thousand things, many
quite new and for the first time, should I not have had to communicate!

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Feb._ 17, 1787. _Evening, after the follies of the Carnival._

I am sorry to go away and leave Moritz alone; he is going on well, but
when he is left to himself, he immediately shuts himself up and is
lost to the world. I have therefore exhorted him to write to Herder:
the letter is enclosed. I should wish for an answer, which may be
serviceable and helpful to him. He is a strange good fellow; he would
have been far more so, had he occasionally met with a friend, sensible
and affectionate enough to enlighten him as to his true state. At
present he could not form an acquaintance likely to be more blessed
to him than Herder's, if permitted frequently to write to him. He is
at this moment engaged on a very laudable antiquarian attempt, which
well deserves to be encouraged: Friend Herder could scarcely bestow his
cares better nor sow his good advice in a more grateful soil.

The great portrait of myself which Tischbein has taken in hand begins
already to stand out from the canvass. The painter has employed a
clever statuary to make him a little model in clay, which is elegantly
draperied with the mantle; with this he is working away diligently, for
it must, he says, be brought to a certain point before we set out for
Naples, and it takes no little time merely to cover so large a field of
canvass with colours.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Rome--Italian skies.]

_Rome, Feb._ 19, 1787.

The weather continues to be finer than words can express. This has
been a day miserably wasted among fools. At nightfall I betook myself
to the Villa Medici. A new moon has just shone upon us, and below the
slender crescent I could with the naked eye discern almost the whole of
the dark disc through the perspective. Over the earth hangs that haze
of the day which the paintings of Claude have rendered so well known.
In Nature, however, the phenomenon is perhaps nowhere so beautiful
as it is here. Flowers are now springing out of the earth, and the
trees putting forth blossoms which hitherto I have been unacquainted
with; the almonds are in blossom, and between the dark-green oaks they
make an appearance as beautiful as it is new to me. The sky is like a
blight blue taffeta in the sunshine; what will it be in Naples? Almost
everything here is already green. My botanical whims gain food and
strength from all around; and I am on the way to discover new and
beautiful relations by means of which Nature--that vast prodigy, which
yet is nowhere visible--evolves the most manifold varieties out of the
most simple.

Vesuvius is throwing out both ashes and stones; in the evening its
summit appears to glow. May travailing Nature only favour us with a
stream of lava. I can scarcely endure to wait till it shall be really
my lot to witness such grand phenomena.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Feb._ 21, 1787. _Ash Wednesday._

The folly is now at an end. The countless lights of yesterday evening
were, however, a strange spectacle. One must have seen the Carnival in
Rome to get entirely rid of the wish to see it again. Nothing can be
written of it: as a subject of conversation it may be amusing enough.
The most unpleasant feeling about it is, that real internal joy is
wanting--there is a lack of money, which prevents them enjoying the
morsel of pleasure, which otherwise they might still feel in it. The
great are economical, and hold back; those of the middle ranks are
without the means, and the populace without spring or elasticity. In
the last days there was an incredible tumult, but no heartfelt joy. The
sky, so infinitely fine and clear, looked down nobly and innocently
upon the mummeries.

However, as imitation is out of the question, and cannot be thought
of here, I send you, to amuse the children, some drawings of carnival
masks, and some ancient Roman costumes, which are also coloured, as
they may serve to supply a missing chapter in the "Orbis Pictus."

       *       *       *       *       *

_Rome, Feb._ 21, 1787.

I snatch a few moments in the intervals of packing, to mention some
particulars which I have hitherto omitted. To-morrow we set off for
Naples. I am already delighting myself with the new scenery, which
I promise myself will be inexpressibly beautiful; and hope in this
paradise of nature, to win fresh freedom and pleasure for the study of
ancient art, on my return to sober Rome.

Packing up is light work to me, since I can now _do_ it with a merrier
heart than I had some six months ago, when I had to tear myself from
all that was most dear and precious to me. Yes, it is now a full half
year since; and of the four months I have spent in Rome, not a moment
has been lost. The boast may sound big; nevertheless, it does not say
too much.

That "Iphigenia" has arrived, I know,--may, I learn at the foot of
Vesuvius that it has met with a hearty welcome.

That Tischbein, who possesses as glorious an eye for nature as for
art, is to accompany me on this journey, is to me the subject of
great congratulation: still, as genuine Germans, we cannot throw
aside all purposes and thoughts of work. We have bought the best
of drawing-paper, and we intend to sketch away; although, in all
probability, the multitude, the beauty, and the splendour of the
objects, will choke our good intentions.

[Sidenote: Rome--The "Tasso."]

One conquest I have gained over myself. Of all my unfinished poetical
works I shall take with me none but the "Tasso," of which I have
the best hopes. If I could only know what you are now saying to
"Iphigenia," your remarks might be some guide to me in my present
labours; for the plan of "Tasso" is very similar; the subject
still more confined, and in its several parts will be even still
more elaborately finished. Still I cannot tell as yet what it will
eventually prove. What already exists of it must be destroyed; it is,
perhaps, somewhat tediously drawn out, and neither the characters nor
the plot, nor the tone of it, are at all in harmony with my present
views.

In making a clearance I have fallen upon some of your letters, and
in reading them over I have just lighted upon a reproach, that in my
letters I contradict myself. It may be so, but I was not aware of it;
for as soon as I have written a letter I immediately send it off: I
must, however, confess that nothing seems to me more likely, for I have
lately been tossed about by mighty spirits, and therefore it is quite
natural if at times I know not where I am standing.

A story is told of a skipper, who, overtaken at sea by a stormy night,
determined to steer for port. His little boy, who in the dark was
crouching by him, asked him, "What silly light is that which I see--at
one time above us and at another below us?" His father promised to
explain it to him some other day; and then he told him that it the
beacon of the lighthouse, which, to the eye now raised, now depressed,
by the wild waves, appeared accordingly sometimes above and sometimes
below. I too am steering on a passion-tossed sea for the harbour,
and if I can only manage to hold steadily in my eye the gleam of the
beacon, however it may seem to change its place, I shall at last enjoy
the wished for shore.

When one is on the eve of a departure, every earlier separation, and
also that last one of all, and which is yet to be, comes involuntarily
into one's thoughts; and so, on this occasion, the reflection enforces
itself on my mind more strongly than ever, that man is always making
far too great and too many preparations for life. For we, for
instance--Tischbein and I, that is--must soon turn our backs upon
many a precious and glorious object, and even upon our well-furnished
museum. In it there are now standing three gems for comparison, side by
side, and yet we part from them as though they were not.

       *       *       *       *       *

NAPLES.

_Velletri, Feb._ 22, 1787.

We arrived here in good time. The day before yesterday the weather
became gloomy; and our fine days were overcast: still some signs of the
air seemed to promise that it would soon clear up again, and so indeed
it turned out. The clouds gradually broke, here and there appeared
the blue sky, and at last the sun shone full on our journey. We came
through Albano, after having stopped before Genzano, at the entrance
of a park, which the owner, Prince Chigi, in a very strange way holds,
but does not keep up, on which account he will not allow any one to
enter it. In it a true wilderness has been formed. Trees and shrubs,
plants and weeds grow, wither, fall, and rot at pleasure. That is all
right, and indeed could not be better. The expanse before the entrance,
is inexpressibly fine. A high wall encloses the valley, a lattice-gate
affords a view into it; then the hill ascends, upon which, above you,
stands the castle.

But now I dare not attempt to go on with the description; and I can
merely say, that at the very moment when from the summit we caught
sight of the mountains of Sezza, the Pontine Marshes, the sea and its
islands, a heavy passing shower was traversing the Marshes towards
the sea, and the light and shade, constantly changing and moving,
wonderfully enlivened and variegated the dreary plain. The effect was
beautifully heightened by the sun's beams which lit up with various
hues, the columns of smoke as they ascended from scattered and scarcely
visible cottages.

[Sidenote: Velletri--A trick upon travellers.]

Velletri is agreeably situated on a volcanic hill, which, towards the
north alone, is connected with other hills, and towards three points of
the heavens commands a wide and uninterrupted prospect.

We here visited the Cabinet of the Cavaliere Borgia, who, favoured
by his relationship with the Cardinal has managed, by means of the
Propaganda, to collect some valuable antiquities and other curiosities.
Ægyptian charms, idols cut out of the very hardest rock, some small
figures in metal, of earlier or later dates, some pieces of statuary
of burnt clay, with figures in low relief, which were dug up in the
neighbourhood, and on the authority of which one is almost tempted to
ascribe to the ancient indigenous population a style of their own in
art.

Of other kinds of varieties there are numerous specimens in this
museum. I noticed two Chinese black-painted boxes; on the sides of
one there was delineated the whole management of the silk-worm, and
on the other the cultivation of rice: both subjects were very nicely
conceived, and worked out with the utmost minuteness. Both the boxes
and their covers are eminently beautiful, and, as well as the book in
the library of the Propaganda, which I have already praised, are well
worth seeing.

It is certainly inexplicable that these treasures should be within
so short a distance of Rome, and yet should not be more frequently
visited; but perhaps the difficulty and inconvenience of getting to
these regions, and the attraction of the magic circle of Rome, may
serve to excuse the fact. As we arrived at the inn, some women, who
were sitting before the doors of their houses, called out to us, and
asked if we wished to buy any antiquities; and then, as we showed a
pretty strong hankering after them, they brought out some old kettles,
fire-tongs, and such like utensils, and were ready to die with laughing
at having made fools of us. When we seemed a little put out, our guide
assured us, to our comfort, that it was a customary joke, and that all
strangers had to submit to it.

I am writing this in a very miserable auberge, and feel neither
strength nor humour to make it any longer: therefore I must bid you a
very good night.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Fondi, Feb._ 23, 1787.

We were on the road very early,--by three in the morning. As the day
broke we found ourselves on the Pontine Marshes, which have not by any
means so ill an appearance as the common description in Rome would make
out. Of course, by merely once passing over the marshes, it is not
possible to judge of so great an undertaking as that of the intended
draining of them, which necessarily requires time to test its merits;
still it does appear to me, that the works which have commenced by the
Pope's orders, will, to a great extent at least, attain the desired
end. Conceive to yourself a wide valley, which, as it stretches from
north to south, has but a very slight fall, but which towards the
east and the mountains is extremely low, but rises again considerably
towards the sea on the west. Punning in a straight line through the
whole length of it, the ancient Via Appia has been restored. On the
right of the latter the principal drain has been cut, and in it the
water flows with a rapid fall. By means of it the tract of land to the
right has been drained, and is now profitably cultivated. As far as the
eye can see, it is either already brought into cultivation or evidently
might be so, if farmers could be found to take it, with the exception
of one spot, which lies extremely low.

The left side, which stretches towards the mountains, is more difficult
to be managed. Here, however, cross-drains pass under the raised way
into the chief drain; as, however, the surface sinks again towards
the mountains, it is impossible by this means to carry off the water
entirely. To meet this difficulty it is proposed, I was told, to cut
another leading drain along the foot of the mountains. Large patches,
especially towards Terracina, are thinly planted with willows and
poplars.

The posting stations consist merely of long thatched sheds. Tischbein
sketched one of them, and enjoyed for his reward a gratification which
only he could enjoy. A white horse having broke loose had fled to the
drained lands. Enjoying its liberty, it was galloping backwards and
forwards on the brown turf like a flash of lightning; in truth it was a
glorious sight, rendered significant by Tischbein's rapture.

At the point where the ancient village of Meza once stood, the Pope
has caused to be built a large and fine building, which indicates
the centre of the level. The sight of it increases one's hopes and
confidence of the success of the whole undertaking. While thus we
travelled on, we kept up a lively conversation together, not forgetting
the warning, that on this journey one must not go to sleep; and, in
fact, we were strongly enough reminded of the danger of the atmosphere,
by the blue vapour which, even in this season of the year, hangs
above the ground. On this account the more delightful, as it was the
more longed for, was the rocky site of Terracina; and scarcely had we
congratulated ourselves at the sight of it, than we caught a view of
the sea beyond. Immediately afterwards the other side of the mountain
city presented to our eye a vegetation quite new to us. The Indian figs
were pushing their large fleshy leaves amidst the gray green of dwarf
myrtles, the yellowish green of the pomegranate, and the pale green of
the olive. As we passed along, we noticed both flowers and shrubs quite
new to, us. On the meadows the narcissus and the adonis were in flower.
For a long time the sea was on our right, while close to us on the left
ran an unbroken range of limestone rocks. It is a continuation of the
Apennines, which runs down from Tivoli and touches the sea, which it
does not leave again till you reach the Campagna di Romana, where it is
succeeded by the volcanic formations of Frescati, Alba, and Velletri,
and lastly by the Pontine Marshes. Monte Circello, with the opposite
promontory of Terracina, where the Pontine Marshes terminate, in all
probability consists also of a system of chalk rocks.

We left the sea coast, and soon reached the charming plain of Fondi.
Every one must admire this little spot of fertile and well cultivated
land, enclosed with hills, which themselves are by no means wild.
Oranges, in great numbers, are still hanging on the trees; the crops,
all of wheat, are beautifully green; olives are growing in the fields,
and the little city is in the bottom. A palm tree, which stood out a
marked object in the scenery, received our greetings. So much for this
evening. Pardon the scrawl. I must write without thinking, for writing
sake. The objects are too numerous, my resting place too wretched, and
yet my desire to commit something to paper too great. With nightfall we
reached this place, and it is now time to go to rest.

       *       *       *       *       *

_S. Agata, Feb._ 24, 1787.

Although in a wretchedly cold chamber, I must yet try and give you some
account of a beautiful day. It was already nearly light when we drove
out of Fondi, and we were forthwith greeted by the orange trees which
hang over the walls on both sides of our road. The trees are loaded
with such numbers as can only be imagined and not expressed. Towards
the top the young leaf is yellowish, but below and in the middle, of
sappy green. Mignon was quite right to long for them.

After this we travelled through clean and well-worked fields of wheat,
planted at convenient distances with olive-trees. A soft breeze was
moving, and brought to the light the silvery under-surface of the
leaves, as the branches swayed gently and elegantly. It was a gray
morning; a north wind promised soon to dispel all the clouds.

Then the road entered a valley between stony but well-dressed fields;
the crops of the most beautiful green. At certain spots one saw some
roomy places, paved, and surrounded with low walls; on these the corn,
which is never carried home in sheaves, is thrashed out at once. The
valley gradually narrows, and the road becomes mountainous, bare rocks
of limestone standing on both sides of us. A violent storm followed us,
with a fall of sleet, which thawed very slowly.

The walls, of an ancient style, built after the pattern of net-work,
charmed us exceedingly. On the heights the soil is rocky, but
nevertheless planted with olive-trees wherever there is the smallest
patch of soil to receive them. Next we drove over a plain covered with
olive-trees, and then through a small town. We here noticed altars,
ancient tombstones, and fragments of every kind built up in the walls
of the pleasure-houses in the gardens. Then the lower stories of
ancient villas, once excellently built, but now filled up with earth,
and overgrown with olives. At last we caught a sight of Vesuvius, with
a cloud of smoke resting on its brow.

Molo di Gäeta greeted us again with the richest of orange-trees; we
remained there some hours. The creek before the town, which the tide
flows up to, affords one the finest of views. Following the line of
coast, on the right, till the eye reaches at last the horn of the
crescent, one sees at a moderate distance the fortress of Gäeta on the
rocks. The left horn stretches out still further, presenting to the
beholder first of all aline of mountains, then Vesuvius, and, beyond
all, the islands. Ischia lies before you nearly in the centre.

On the shore here I found, for the first time in my life, a starfish,
and an echinus thrown up by the sea; a beautiful green leaf, (_tethys
foliacea_), smooth as the finest bath paper, and other remarkable
rubble-stones, the most common being limestone, but occasionally also
serpentine, jasper, quartz, granite, breccian pebbles, porphyry, marble
of different kinds, and glass of a blue and green colour. The two
last-mentioned specimens are scarcely productions of the neighbourhood.
They are probably the debris of ancient buildings; and thus we have
seen the waves before our eyes playing with the splendours of the
ancient world. We tarried awhile, and pleased ourselves with meditating
on the nature of man, whose hopes, whether in the civilized or savage
state, are so soon disappointed.

Departing from Molo, a beautiful prospect still accompanies the
traveller, even after his quitting the sea; the last glimpse of it was
a lovely bay, of which we took a sketch. We now came upon a good fruit
country, with hedges of aloes. We noticed an aqueduct which ran from
the mountains over some nameless and orderless masses of ruins.

[Sidenote: S. Agata.]

Next comes the ferry over the Garigliano; after crossing it one passes
through tolerably fruitful districts, till we reach the mountains.
Nothing striking. At length, the first hill of lava. Here begins an
extensive and glorious district of hill and vale, over which the snowy
summits are towering in the distance. On the nearest eminence lies
a long town, which strikes the eye with an agreeable effect. In the
valley lies S. Agata, a considerable inn, where a cheerful fire was
burning in a chimney arranged as a cabinet; however, our room is
cold--no window, only shutters, which I am just hastening to close.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, Feb._ 25, 1787.

And here we are happily arrived at last, and with good omens enough.
Of our day's journey thus much only. We left S. Agata with sunrise, a
violent north-east wind blowing on our backs, which continued the whole
day through. It was not till noon that it was master of the clouds. We
suffered much from the cold.

Our road again lay among and over volcanic hills, among which I did not
notice many limestone rocks. At last we reached the plains of Capua,
and shortly afterwards Capua itself, where we halted at noon. In the
afternoon a beautiful but flat region lay stretched before us; the road
is broad, and runs through fields of green corn, so even that it looked
like a carpet, and was at least a span high. Along the fields are
planted rows of poplars, from which the branches are lopped to a great
height, that the vines may run up them; this is the case all the way to
Naples. The soil is excellent, light, loose, and well worked. The vine
stocks are of extraordinary strength and height, and their shoots hang
in festoons like nets from tree to tree.

Vesuvius was all the while on our left with a strong smoke, and I
felt a quiet joy to think that at last I beheld with my own eyes this
most, remarkable object. The sky became clearer and clearer, and at
length the sun shone quite hot into our narrow rolling lodging. The
atmosphere was perfectly clear and bright as we approached Naples,
and we now found ourselves, in truth, in quite another world. The
houses, with flat roofs, at once bespeak a different climate; inwardly,
perhaps, they may not be very comfortable. Every one is in the streets,
or sitting in the sun as long as it shines. The Neapolitan believes
himself to be in possession of Paradise, and entertains a very
melancholy opinion of our northern lands. _Sempre neve, caso di legno,
gran ignoranza, ma danari assai._ Such is the picture they draw of
our condition. Interpreted for the benefit of all our German folk, it
means--Always snow, wooden houses, great ignorance, but money enough.

Naples at first sight leaves a free, cheerful, and lively impression;
numberless beings are passing and repassing each other: the king is
gone hunting, the queen _promising_; and so things could not be better.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, Monday, Feb._ 26, 1787. "_Alla Locanda del Sgr. Moriconi al
Largo del Castello._"

Under this address, no less cheerful than high-sounding, letters from
all the four quarters of heaven will henceforth find us. Round the
castle, which lies by the sea, there stretches a large open space,
which, although surrounded on all sides with houses, is not called a
square or piazza, but a largo, or expanse. Perhaps the name is derived
from ancient times, when it was still an open and unenclosed country.
Here, in a corner house on one side of the Largo, we have taken up our
lodgings in a corner room, which commands a free and lively view of the
ever moving surface. An iron balcony runs before several windows, and
even round the corner. One would never leave it, if the sharp wind were
not extremely cutting.

[Sidenote: Naples--My lodgings.]

The room is cheerfully decorated, especially the ceiling, whose
arabasques of a hundred compartments bear witness to the proximity of
Pompeii and Herculaneum. Now, all this is very well and very fine;
but there is no fire-place, no chimney, and yet February exercises
even here its rights. I expressed a wish for something to warm me.
They brought in a tripod of sufficient height from the ground for one
conveniently to hold one's hands over it; on it was placed a shallow
brazier, full of extremely fine charcoal red-hot, but covered smoothly
over with ashes. We now found it an advantage to be able to manage this
process of domestic economy; we had learned that at Rome. With the ring
of a key, from time to time, one cautiously draws away the ashes of the
surface, so that a few of the embers may be exposed to the free air.
Were you impatiently to stir up the glowing coals, you would no doubt
experience for a few moments great warmth, but you would in a short
time exhaust the fuel, and then you must pay a certain sum to have the
brasier filled again.

I did not feel quite well, and could have wished for more of ease and
comfort. A reed matting was all there was to protect one's feet from
the stone floor; skins are not usual. I determined to put on a sailor's
cloak which we had brought with us in fun, and it did me good service,
especially when I tied it round my body with the rope of my box. I must
have looked very comical, something between a sailor and a capuchin.
When Tischbein came back from visiting some of his friends, and found
me in this dress, he could not refrain from laughing.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, Feb._ 27, 1787.

Yesterday I kept quietly at home, in order to get rid of a slight
bodily ailment. To-day has been a regular carouse, and the time
passed rapidly while we visited the most glorious of objects. Let
man talk, describe and paint as he may--to be here is more than all.
The shore, the creeks, and the bay, Vesuvius, the city, the suburbs,
the castles, the atmosphere! In the evening, too, we went into the
Grotto of Posilippo, while the setting sun was shining into it from
the other side. I can pardon all who lose their senses in Naples, and
remember with emotion my father, who retained to the last an indelible
impression of those objects which to-day I have cast eyes upon for the
first time. Just as it is said, that people who have once seen a ghost,
are never afterwards seen to smile, so in the opposite sense it may be
said of him, that he never could become perfectly miserable, so long
as he remembered Naples. According to my fashion, I am quite still and
calm, and when anything happens too absurd, only make large-large eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, Feb._ 28, 1787.

To-day we visited Philip Hackert, the famous landscape-painter, who
enjoys the special confidence and peculiar favour of the king and the
queen. A wing of the palace Franca Villa has been assigned to him,
which, having furnished it with true artistic taste, he feels great
satisfaction in inhabiting. He is a very precise and prudent personage,
who, with untiring industry, manages, nevertheless, to enjoy life.

After that we took a sail, and saw all kinds of fish and wonderful
shapes drawn out of the waves. The day was glorious; the _tramontane_
(north winds) tolerable.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Naples--The Prince Von Waldeck.]

_Naples, March_ 1, 1787.

Even in Rome my self-willed hermit-like humour was forced to assume
a more social aspect than I altogether liked: no doubt it appears
a strange beginning to go into the world in order to be alone.
Accordingly I could not resist Prince von Waldeck, who most kindly
invited me, and by his rank and influence has procured me the enjoyment
of many privileges. We had scarcely reached Naples, where he has been
residing a long while, when he sent us an invitation to pay a visit
with him to Puzzuoli and the neighbourhood. I was thinking already of
Vesuvius for to-day; but Tischbein has forced me to take this journey,
which, agreeable enough of itself, promises from the fine weather, and
the society of a perfect gentleman, and well-educated prince, very much
both of pleasure and profit. We had also seen in Rome a beautiful lady,
who with her husband, is inseparable from the Prince. She also is to be
of the party; and we hope for a most delightful day.

Moreover, I was intimately known to this noble society, having met
them previously. The Prince, upon our first acquaintance, had asked me
what I was then busy with; and the plan of my "Iphigenia" was so fresh
in my recollection, that I was able one evening to relate it to them
circumstantially. They entered into it; still, still I fancied I could
observe that something livelier and wilder was expected of me.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Evening._

It would be difficult to give an account of this day. How often has
the cursory reading of a book, which irresistibly carries one with it,
exercised the greatest influence on a man's whole life, and produced
at once a decisive effect, which neither a second perusal nor earnest
reflection can either strengthen or modify. This I experienced in
the case of the "Sakuntala"; and do not great men affect us somewhat
in the same way? A sail to Puzzuoli, little trips by land, cheerful
walks through the most wonderful regions in the world! Beneath the
purest sky the most treacherous soil; ruins of inconceivable opulence,
oppressive, and saddening; boiling waters, clefts exhaling sulphur,
rocks of slag defying vegetable life, bare forbidding tracts, and then
at last on all sides the most luxuriant vegetation seizing every spot
and cranny possible, running over every lifeless object, edging the
lakes and brooks, and nourishing a glorious wood of oak on the brink of
an ancient crater!

And thus one is driven backwards and forwards between nature and the
history of nations; one wishes to meditate, and soon feels himself
quite unfit for it. In the mean time, however, the living lives on
merrily, with a joyousness which we too would share. Educated persons,
belonging to the world and the world's ways, but warned by serious
events, become, nevertheless, disposed for reflection. A boundless view
of earth, sea, and sky,--and then called away to the side of a young
and amiable lady, accustomed and delighted to receive homage.

Amidst all this giddy excitement, however, I failed not to make many
notes. The future reduction of these will be greatly facilitated by the
map we consulted on the spot, and by a hasty sketch of Tischbein's.
To-day it is not possible for me to make the least addition to these.

       *       *       *       *       *

_March_ 2.

Thursday I ascended Vesuvius, although the weather was unsettled, and
the summit of the mountain surrounded by clouds. I took a carriage
as far as Resina, and then, on the back of a mule, began the ascent,
having vineyards on both sides. Next, on foot, I crossed the lava of
the year '71, on the surface of which a fine but compact moss was
already growing; then upwards on the side of the lava. The hut of the
hermit on the height, was on my left hand. After this we climbed the
Ash-hill, which is wearisome walking; two-thirds of the summit were
enveloped in clouds. At last we reached the ancient crater, now filled
up, where we found recent lava, only two months and fourteen days
old, and also a slight streak of only five days, which was, however,
already cold. Passing over these, we next ascended a height which
had been thrown up by volcanic action; it was smoking from all its
points. As the smoke rolled away from us, I essayed to approach the
crater; scarcely, however, had we taken fifty steps in the steam, when
it became so dense that I could scarcely see my shoes. It was to no
purpose that we held snuff continually before our nostrils. My guide
had disappeared; and the footing on the lava lately thrown up was very
unsteady. I therefore thought it right to turn round, and to reserve
the sight for a finer day, and for less of smoke. However, I now know
how difficult it is to breathe in such an atmosphere.

[Sidenote: Naples--Vesuvius.]

Otherwise, the mountain was quite still. There was no flame, no
roaring, no stones thrown up--all which it usually does at most times.
I reconnoitered it well, with the intention of regularly storming it as
soon as the weather shall improve.

The specimens of lava that I found, were mostly of well-known kinds. I
noticed, however, a phenomenon which appeared to me extremely strange,
which I intend to examine again still more closely, and also to consult
connoisseurs and collectors upon it. It is a stalactite incrustation
of a part of the volcanic funnel, which has been thrown down, and now
rears itself in the centre of the old choked-up crater. This mass of
solid greyish stalactite appears to have been formed by the sublimation
of the very finest volcanic evaporation, without the co-operation
of either moisture or fusion. It will furnish occasion for further
thinking.

To-day, the 3rd of March, the sky is covered with clouds, and a sirocco
is blowing. For post-day, good weather.

A very strange medley of men, beautiful houses, and most singular
fishes are here to be seen in abundance.

Of the situation of the city, and of its glories, which have been so
often described and commended, not a word from me. "_Vede Napoli e poi
muori_," the cry here. "See Naples, and die."

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, March_ 5, 1787.

That no Neapolitan will allow the merits of his city to be questioned,
that their poets should sing in extravagant hyperbole of the blessings
of its site, are not matters to quarrel about, even though a pair of
Vesuviuses stood in its neighbourhood. Here one can almost cast aside
all remembrances, even of Rome. As compared with this free, open
situation, the capital of the world, in the basin of the Tiber, looks
like a cloister built on a bad site.

The sea, with its vessels, and their destinations, presents wholly new
matters for reflection. The frigate for Palermo started yesterday,
with a strong, direct, north wind. This time it certainly will not be
more than six-and-thirty hours on the passage. With what longing did I
not watch the full sails as the vessel passed between Capri and Cape
Minerva, until at last it disappeared. Who could see one's beloved thus
sailing away and survive? The sirocco (south wind) is now blowing; if
the wind becomes stronger, the breakers over the Mole will be glorious.

To-day being Friday, is the grand promenade of the nobility, when every
one displays his equipages, and especially his stud. It is almost
impossible to see finer horses anywhere than in Naples. For the first
time in my life I have felt an interest in these animals.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, March_ 3, 1787.

Here you have a few leaves, as reporters of the entertainment I
have met with in this place; also a corner of the cover of your
letter, stained with smoke, in testimony of its having been with me
on Vesuvius. You must not, however, fancy, either in your waking
thoughts or in your dreams, that I am surrounded by perils; be
assured that wherever I venture, there is no more danger than on the
road to Belvedere. The earth is everywhere the Lord's; may be well
said in reference to such objects. I never seek adventure out of a
mere rage for singularity; but even because I am most cool, and can
catch at a glance, the peculiarities of any object, I may well do
and venture more than many others. The passage to Sicily is anything
but dangerous. A few days ago, the frigate sailed for Palermo with a
favorable breeze from the north, and, leaving Capri on the right, has,
no doubt, accomplished the voyage in six-and-thirty hours. In all such
expeditions, one finds the danger to be far less in reality than, at a
distance, one is apt to imagine.

Of earthquakes, there is not at present a vestige in Lower Italy; in
the upper provinces Rimini and its neighbourhood has lately suffered.
Thus the earth has strange humours, and people talk of earthquakes here
just as we do of wind and weather, and as in Thuringia they talk of
conflagrations.

I am delighted to find that you are now familiar with the two editions
of my "Iphigenia," but still more pleased should I he had you been more
sensible of the difference between them. I know what I have done for
it, and may well speak thereof, since I feel that I could make still
further improvements. If it be a bliss to enjoy the good, it is still
greater happiness to discern the better; for in art the best only is
good enough.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, March_ 5, 1787.

We spent the second Sunday of Lent in visiting church after church. As
in Rome all is highly solemn; so here every horn is merry and cheerful.
The Neapolitan school of painting, too, can only be understood in
Naples. One is astonished to see the whole front of a church painted
from top to bottom. Over the door of one, Christ is driving out of
the temple the buyers and sellers, who, terribly frightened, are
nimbly huddling up their wares, and hurrying down the steps on both
sides. In another church, there is a room over the entrance, which
is richly ornamented with frescoes representing the deprivation of
Heliodorus.[5] Luca Giordano must indeed have painted rapidly, to fill
such large areas in a lifetime. The pulpit, too, is here not always
a mere cathedra, as it is in other places,--a place where one only
may teach at a time; but a gallery. Along one of these I once saw a
Capuchin walking backwards and forwards, and, now from one end, now
from another, reproaching the people with their sins. What had he not
to tell them!

But neither to be told nor to be described is the glory of a night
of the full moon such as we have enjoyed here, wandering through the
streets and squares and on the quay, with its long promenade, and then
backwards and forwards on the beach; one felt really possessed with
the feeling of the infinity of space. So to dream is really worth all
trouble.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Naples-Filangieri.]

_Naples, March_ 5, 1787.

I made to-day the acquaintance of an excellent individual, v and
I must briefly give you a general description of him. It is the
Chevalier Filangieri, famous for his work on legislation. He belongs
to those noble young men who wish to promote the happiness and the
moderate liberty of mankind. In his bearing you recognise at once the
soldier, the chevalier, and the man of the world; but this appearance
is softened by an expression of tender moral sensibility, which is
diffused over his whole countenance, and shines forth most agreeably in
his character and conversation; he is, moreover, heartily attached to
his sovereign and country, even though he cannot approve of all that
goes on. He is also oppressed with a fear of Joseph II. The idea of a
despot, even though it only floats as a phantom in the air, excites
the apprehensions of every noble-minded man. He spoke to me without
reserve, of what Naples had to fear from him; but in particular he
was delighted to speak of Montesquieu, Beccaria, and of some of his
own writings--all in the same spirit of the best will, and of a heart
full of youthful enthusiasm to do good. And yet he may one day be
classed with the Thirty. He has also made me acquainted with an old
writer, from whose inexhaustible depths these new Italian friends of
legislation derive intense encouragement and edification. He is called
Giambattista Vico, and is preferred even to Montesquieu. After a hasty
perusal of his book, which was lent to me as a sacred deposit, I laid
it down, saying to myself, Here are sybilline anticipations of good and
right, which once must, or ought to be, realised, drawn apparently from
a serious contemplation both of the past and of the present. It is well
when a nation possesses such a forefather: the Germans will one day
receive a similar codex from _Hamann._


[Footnote 5: Heliodorus, Bishop of Trieca, in Thessaly, in the fourth
century, author of the "Œthiopics, or, the Amours of Theagenes and
Chariclea," was, it is said, deprived of his bishopric for writing this
work.--A. W. M.]

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, March_ 6, 1787.

Most reluctantly, yet, for the sake of good-fellowship, Tischbein
accompanied me to-day to Vesuvius. To him--the artist of form, who
concerns himself with none but the most beautiful of human and animal
shapes, and one also whose taste and judgment lead to humanise even
the formless rock and landscape,--such a frightful and shapeless
conglomeration of matter, which, moreover, is continually preying on
itself, and proclaiming war against every idea of the beautiful, must
have appeared utterly abominable.

We started in two caleches, as we did not trust ourselves to drive
through the crowd and whirl of the city. The drivers kept up an
incessant shouting at the top of their voice whenever donkeys with
their loads of wood or rubbish, or rolling caleches met us, or else
warning the porters with their burdens, or other pedestrians, whether
children or old people to get out of the way. All the while, however,
they drove at a sharp trot, without the least stop or check.

As you get into the remoter suburbs and gardens, the road soon begins
to show signs of a Plutonic action. For as we had not had rain for a
long time, the naturally evergreen leaves were covered with a thick
gray and ashy dust; so that the glorious blue sky, and the scorching
sun which shone down upon us, were the only signs that we were still
among the living.

[Sidenote: Naples--Ascent to Vesuvius.]

At the foot of the steep ascent, we were received by two guides, one
old, the other young, but both active fellows. The first pulled me up
the path, the other Tischbein,--pulled I say, for these guides are
girded round the waist with a leathern belt, which the traveller takes
hold of, and being drawn up by his guide, makes his way the easier with
foot and staff. In this manner we reached the flat from which the cone
rises: towards the north lay the ruins of the Somma.

A glance westwards over the country beneath us, removed, as well as
a bath could, all feeling of exhaustion and fatigue, and we now went
round the ever-smoking cone, as it threw out its stones and ashes.
Wherever the space allowed of our viewing it at a sufficient distance,
it appeared a grand and elevating spectacle. In the first place, a
violent thundering toned forth from its deepest abyss, then stones of
larger and smaller sizes were showered into the air by thousands, and
enveloped by clouds of ashes. The greatest part fell again into the
gorge; the rest of the fragments, receiving a lateral inclination, and
falling on the outside of the crater, made a marvellous rumbling noise.
First of all the larger masses plumped against the side, and rebounded
with a dull heavy sound; then the smaller came rattling down; and last
of all, drizzled a shower of ashes. All this took place at regular
intervals, which by slowly counting, we were able to measure pretty
accurately.

Between the _Somma_, however, and the cone the space is narrow enough;
moreover, several stones fell around us, and made the circuit anything
but agreeable. Tischbein now felt more disgusted than ever with
Vesuvius, as the monster, not content with being hateful, showed an
inclination to become mischievous also.

As, however, the presence of danger generally exercises on man a kind
of attraction, and calls forth a spirit of opposition in the human
breast to defy it, I bethought myself that, in the interval of the
eruptions, it would be possible to climb up the cone to the crater, and
to get back before it broke out again. I held a council on this point
with our guides under one of the overhanging rocks of the Somma, where,
encamped in safety, we refreshed ourselves with the provisions we had
brought with us. The younger guide was willing to run the risk with me;
we stuffed our hats full of linen and silk handkerchiefs, and, staff in
hand, we prepared to start, I holding on to his girdle.

The little stones were yet rattling around us, and the ashes still
drizzling, as the stalwart youth hurried forth with me across the
hot glowing rubble. We soon stood on the brink of the vast chasm,
the smoke of which, although a gentle air was bearing it away from
us, unfortunately veiled the interior of the crater, which smoked
all round from a thousand crannies. At intervals, however, we caught
sight through the smoke of the cracked walls of the rock. The view
was neither instructive nor delightful; but for the very reason that
one saw nothing, one lingered in the hope of catching a glimpse of
something more; and so we forgot our slow counting. We were standing
on a narrow ridge of the vast abyss: of a sudden the thunder pealed
aloud; we ducked our heads involuntarily, as if that would have rescued
us from the precipitated masses. The smaller stones soon rattled, and
without considering that we had again an interval of cessation before
us, and only too much rejoiced to have outstood the danger, we rushed
down and reached the foot of the hill, together with the drizzling
ashes, which pretty thickly covered our heads and shoulders.

Tischbein was heartily glad to see me again. After a little scolding
and a little refreshment, I was able to give my especial attention to
the old and new lava. And here the elder of the guides was able to
instruct me accurately in the signs by which the age of the several
strata was indicated. The older were already covered with ashes, and
rendered quite smooth; the newer, especially those which had cooled
slowly, presented a singular appearance. As, sliding along, they
carried away with them the solid objects which lay on the surface, it
necessarily happened that from time to time several would come into
contact with each other, and these again being swept still further by
the molten stream, and pushed one over the other, would eventually form
a solid mass with wonderful jags and corners, still more strange even
than the somewhat similarly formed piles of the icebergs. Among this
fused and waste matter I found many great rocks, which, being struck
with a hammer, present on the broken face a perfect resemblance to the
primeval rock formation. The guides maintained that these were old lava
from the lowest depths of the mountain, which are very often thrown up
by the volcano.

       *       *       *       *       *

Upon our return to Naples, we noticed some small houses of only one
story, and of a remarkable appearance and singular build, without
windows, and receiving all their light from the doors, which opened on
the road. The inhabitants sit before them at the door from the morning
to the night, when they at last retire to their holes.

       *       *       *       *       *

The city, which in the evening is all of a tumult, though of a
different kind from the day, extorted from me the wish that I might be
able to stay here for some time, in order to sketch to the best of my
powers the moving scene. It will not, however, be possible.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Naples--An antique-A horse's head.]

_Naples, Wednesday, March_ 7, 1787.

This week Tischbein has shown to me, and without reserve commented
upon, the greater part of the artistic treasures of Naples. An
excellent judge and drawer of animals, he had long before called my
attention to a horse's head in brass in the Palace Columbrano: we
went there to-day. This relic of art is placed in the court right
opposite the gateway, in a niche over a well, and really excites one's
astonishment. What must have been the effect of the whole head and
body together? The perfect horse must have been far larger than those
at S. Mark's: moreover, the head alone, when closely viewed, enables
you distinctly to recognise and admire the character and spirit of the
animal. The splendid frontal bones, the snorting nostrils, the pricked
ears, the stiff mane,--a strong, excited, and spirited creature!

We turned round to notice a female statue which stands in a niche
over the gateway. It has been already described by Winckelmann as
an imitation of a dancing girl, with the remark, that such artistes
represent to us in living movement, and under the greatest variety,
that beauty of form which the masters of statuary exhibit in the (as it
were) petrified nymphs and goddesses. It is very light and beautiful;
the head, which had been broken off, has been skilfully set on again:
otherwise it is nowise injured, and most assuredly deserves a better
place.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples._

To-day I received your dear letter of the 16th February only, keep on
writing. I have made arrangements for the forwarding of my letters, and
I shall continue to do so, if I move further. Quite strange does it
seem to me to read that my friends do not often see each other; and yet
perhaps nothing is more common than for men not to meet who are living
close together.

The weather here has become dull: a change is at hand. Spring is
commencing, and we shall soon have some rainy days. The summit of
Vesuvius has not been clear since I paid it a visit. These few last
nights flames have been seen to issue from it; to-day it is keeping
itself quiet, and therefore more violent eruptions are expected.

The storms of these last few days have shown to us a glorious sea; it
is at such times that the waves may be studied in their worthiest style
and shape. Nature, indeed, is the only book which presents important
matter on all its pages. On the other hand, the theatres have ceased to
furnish any amusement. During Lent nothing but operas, which differ in
no respect from more profane ones but by the absence of ballets between
the acts; in all other respects they are as gay as possible. In the
theatre of S. Carlo they are representing the destruction of Jerusalem
by Nebuchadnezzar: to me it is only a great raree-show; my taste is
quite spoilt for such things.

To-day we were with the Prince von Waldeck at Capo di Monte, where
there is a great collection of paintings, coins, &c. It is not well
arranged, but the things themselves are above praise: we can now
correct and confirm many traditional ideas. Those coins, gems, and
vases which, like the stunted citron-trees, come to us in the north one
by one, have quite a different look here in the mass, and, so to speak,
in their own home and native soil. For where works of art are rare,
their very rarity gives them a value; here we learn to treasure none
but the intrinsically valuable.

[Sidenote: Naples.]

A very high price is at present given for Etruscan vases, and certainly
beautiful and excellent pieces are to be found among them. Not a
traveller but wishes to possess some specimen or other of them; one
does not seem to value money here at the same rate as at home: I fear
that I myself shall yet be tempted.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, Friday, March_ 9, 1787.

This is the pleasant part of travelling, that even ordinary matters,
by their novelty and unexpectedness, often acquire the appearance of
an adventure. As I came back from Capo di Monte, I paid an evening
visit to Filangieri, and saw sitting on the sofa, by the side of the
mistress of the house, a lady whose external appearance seemed to agree
but little with the familiarity and easy manner she indulged in. In a
light, striped, silk gown of very ordinary texture, and a most singular
cap, by way of head-dress, but of a pretty figure, she looked like some
poor dressmaker who, taken up with the care of adorning the persons of
others, had little time to bestow on her own external appearance; such
people are so accustomed to expect their labours to be remunerated,
that they seem to have no idea of working gratis for themselves. She
did not allow her gossip to be at all checked by my arrival, but went
on talking of a number of ridiculous adventures which had happened to
her that day, or which had been occasioned by her own _brusquerie_ and
impetuosity.

The lady of the house wished to help me to get in a word or two, and
spoke of the beautiful site of Capo di Monte, and of the treasures
there. Upon this the lively lady sprang up with a good high jump from
the sofa, and as she stood on her feet seemed still prettier than
before. She took leave, and running to the door, said, as she passed
me, "The Filangieri are coming one of these days to dine with me--I
hope to see you also." She was gone before I could say yes. I now
learnt that she was the Princess------, a near relative to the master
of the house.[6] The Filangieri were not rich, and lived in a becoming
but moderate style; and such I presumed was the case with my little
Princess, especially as such titles are anything but rare in Naples.
I set down the name, and the day and hour, and left them, without any
doubt but that I should be found at the right place in due time.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, Sunday, March_ 11, 1787.

As my stay in Naples cannot be long, I take the most remote points
first of all--the near throw themselves, as it were, in one's way. I
have been with Tischbein to Pompeii, and on our road all those glorious
prospects which were already well known to us from many a landscape
drawing, lay right and left, dazzling us by their number and unbroken
succession.

Pompeii amazes one by its narrowness and littleness; confined streets,
but perfectly straight, and furnished on both sides with a foot
pavement; little houses without windows, the rooms being lit only by
the doors, which opened on the atrium and the galleries. Even the
public edifices, the tomb at the gate, a temple, and also a villa in
its neighbourhood, are like models and dolls' houses, rather than
real buildings. The rooms, corridors, galleries and all, are painted
with bright and cheerful colours, the wall surfaces uniform; in the
middle some elaborate painting (most of these have been removed); on
the borders and at the corners, light tasteful arabesques, terminating
in the pretty figures of nymphs or children; while in others, from
out of garlands of flowers, beasts, wild and tame, are issuing.
Thus does the city, which first of all the hot shower of stones and
ashes overwhelmed, and afterwards the excavators plundered, still
bear witness, even in its present utterly desolate state, to a taste
for painting and the arts common to the whole people, of which the
most enthusiastic dilettante of the present day has neither idea nor
feeling, and so misses not.

[Footnote 6: Filangieri's sister.]

When one considers the distance of this town from Vesuvius, it is clear
that the volcanic matter which overwhelmed it could not have been
carried hither either by any sudden impetus of the mountain, or by
the wind. We must rather suppose that these stones and ashes had been
floating for a time in the air, like clouds, until at last they fell
upon the doomed city.

In order to form a clear and precise idea of this event, one has only
to think of a mountain village buried in snow. The spaces between
the houses, and indeed the crushed houses themselves, were filled
up; however, it is not improbable that some of the mason-work may,
at different points, have peeped above the surface, and in this way
have excited the notice of those by whom the hill was broken up for
vineyards and gardens. And, no doubt, many an owner, on digging up
his own portion, must have made valuable gleanings. Several rooms
were found quite empty, and in the corner of one a heap of ashes was
observed, under which a quantity of household articles and works of art
was concealed.

The strange, and in some degree unpleasant impression which this
mummied city leaves on the mind, we got rid of, as, sitting in the
arbour of a little inn close to the sea (where we dispatched a frugal
meal), we revelled in the blue sky, the glaring ripple of the sea, and
the bright sunshine; and cherished a hope that, when the vine-leaf
should again cover the hill, we might all be able to pay it a second
visit, and once more enjoy ourselves together on the same spot.

As we approached the city, we again came upon the little cottages,
which now appeared to us perfectly to resemble those in Pompeii.
We obtained permission to enter one, and found it extremely
clean--neatly-platted rush-bottomed chairs, a buffet, covered all over
with gilding, or painted with variegated flowers, and highly varnished.
Thus, after so many centuries, and such numberless changes, this
country instils into its inhabitants the same customs and habits of
life, the same inclinations and tastes.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, Monday, March_ 12, 1787.

To-day, according to my custom, I have gone slowly through the city,
noting several points, for a future description of it, of which
unfortunately I cannot communicate anything to-day. All tends to
this one conclusion: that a highly-favored land, which furnishes in
abundance the chief necessaries of existence, produces men also of a
happy disposition, who, without trouble or anxiety, trust to to-morrow
to bring them what to-day has been wanting, and consequently live on in
a lighthearted careless sort of life. Momentary gratification, moderate
enjoyments, a passing sorrow, and a cheerful resignation!

The morning has been cold and damp, with a little rain. In my walk I
came upon a spot where the great slabs of the pavement appeared swept
quite clean. To my great surprise I saw, on this smooth and even
spot, a number of ragged boys squatting in a circle, and spreading
out their hands over the ground, as if to warm them. At first I took
it to be some game that they were playing; when, however, I noticed
the perfect seriousness and composure of their countenances, with an
expression on it of a gratified want, I therefore put my brains to the
utmost stretch, but they refused to enlighten me as I desired. I was,
therefore, obliged to ask what it could be that had, induced these
little imps to take up this strange position, and had collected them in
so regular a circle.

Upon this I was informed that a neighbouring smith had been heating the
tire of a wheel, and that this is done in the following manner:--The
iron tire is laid on the pavement, and around is as much oak chips as
is considered sufficient to soften the iron to the required degree.
The lighted wood burns away, the tire is riveted to the wheel, and the
ashes carefully swept up. The little vagabonds take advantage of the
heat communicated to the pavement, and do not leave the spot till they
have drawn from it the last radiation of warmth. Similar instances of
contentedness, and sharp-witted profiting by what otherwise would be
wasted, occur here in great number. I notice in this people the most
shrewd and active industry, not to make riches, but to live free from
care.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Evening._

In order that I might not make any mistake yesterday, as to the house
of my odd little princess, and might be there in time, I called a
hackney carriage. It stopped before the grand entrance of a spacious
palace. As I had no idea of coming to so splendid a dwelling, I
repeated to him most distinctly the name; he assured me it was quite
rights I soon found myself in a spacious court, still and lonesome,
empty and clean, enclosed by the principal edifice and side buildings.
The architecture was the well-known light Neapolitan style, as was
also the colouring. Right before me was a grand porch, and a broad
but not very high flight of steps. On both sides of it stood a line
of servants, in splendid liveries, who, as I passed them, bowed very
low. I thought myself the Sultan in Wieland's fairy tale, and after
his example, took courage. Next I was received by the upper domestics,
till at last the most courtly of them opened a door, and introduced me
into a spacious apartment, which was as splendid, but also as empty of
people as all before. In passing backwards and forwards I observed, in
a side-room, a table laid out for about forty persons, with a splendour
corresponding with all around. A secular priest now entered, and
without asking who I was, or whence I came, approached me as if I were
already known to him, and conversed on the most common-place topics.

[Sidenote: Naples--A dinner party.]

A pair of folding doors were now thrown open and immediately closed
again, as a gentleman rather advanced in years entered. The priest
immediately proceeded towards him, as I also did; we greeted him with a
few words of courtesy, which he returned in a barking stuttering tone,
so that I could scarcely make out a syllable of his Hottentot dialect.
When he had taken his place by the stove, the priest moved away, and I
accompanied him. A portly Benedictine entered, accompanied by a younger
member of his order. He went to salute the host, and after being also
barked at, retired to a window. The _regular_ clergy, especially
those whose dress is becoming, have great advantage in society; their
costume is a mark of humility and renunciation of self, while, at the
same time it lends to its wearers a decidedly dignified appearance. In
their behaviour they may easily, without degrading themselves, appear
submissive and complying; and then again, when they stand upon their
own dignity, their self-respect sits well upon them, although in others
it would not be so readily allowed to pass. This was the case with this
person. When I asked him about Monte Cassino, he immediately gave me
an invitation thither, and promised me the best of welcomes. In the
meanwhile the room had become full of people; officers, people of the
court, more regulars, and even some Capuchins, had arrived. Once more
a set of folding-doors opened and shut; an aged lady, somewhat older
than my host, had entered; and now the presence of what I took to be
the lady of the house, made me feel perfectly confident that I was in
a strange mansion, where I was wholly unknown to its owners. Dinner
was now served, and I was keeping close to the side of my friends the
monks, in order to slip with them into the paradise of the dining-room,
when all at once I saw Filangieri, with his wife, enter and make his
excuses for being so late. Shortly after this my little princess came
into the room, and with nods, and winks, and bows to all as she passed,
came straight to me.--"It is very good of you to keep your word," she
exclaimed; "mind you sit by me,--you shall have the best bits,--wait a
minute though; I must find out which is my proper place, then mind and
take your place by me." Thus commanded, I followed the various windings
she made; and at last we reached our seats, having the Benedictine
right opposite and Filangieri on my other side. "The dishes are all
good," she observed,--"all lenten fare, but choice: I'll point out to
you the best. But now I must rally the priests,--the churls! I can't
bear them; every day they are cutting a fresh slice off our estate.
What we have, we should like to spend on ourselves and our friends."
The soup was now handed round,--the Benedictine was sipping his very
deliberately. "Pray don't put yourself out of your way,--the spoon
is too small, I fear; I will bid them bring you a larger one. Your
reverences are used to a good mouthful." The good father replied,--"In
your house, lady, every thing is so excellent, and so well arranged,
that much more distinguished guests than your humble servant would find
everything to their heart's content."

Of the pasties the Benedictine took only one; she called out to
him,--"Pray take half a dozen; pastry, your reverence surely knows, is
easy of digestion." With good sense he took another pasty, thanking
the princess for her attention, just as if he had not seen through her
malicious raillery. And so, also, some solid paste-work furnished her
with occasion for venting her spite; for, as the monk helped himself
to a piece, a second rolled off the dish towards his plate,--"A third!
your reverence; you seem anxious to lay a foundation"--"When such
excellent materials are furnished to his hand, the architect's labours
are easy," rejoined his reverence. Thus she went on continually, only
pausing awhile to keep her promise of pointing out to me the best
dishes.

[Sidenote: Naples--A dinner party.]

All this while I was conversing with my neighbour on the gravest
topics. Absolutely, I never heard Filangieri utter an unmeaning
sentence. In this respect, and indeed in many others, he resembles our
worthy friend, George Schlosser, with this difference, that the former,
as a Neapolitan, and a man of the world, had a softer nature and an
easier manner.

During the whole of this time my roguish neighbour allowed the
clerical gentry not a moment's truce. Above all, the fish at this
lenten meal, dished up in imitation of flesh of all kinds, furnished
her with inexhaustible opportunities for all manner of irreverent and
ill-natured observations; especially in justification and defence of a
taste for flesh, she observed that people would have the form to give a
relish, even when the essence was prohibited.

Many more such jokes were noticed by me at the time, but I am not
in the humour to repeat them. Jokes of this kind, fresh spoken, and
falling from beautiful lips, may be tolerable, not to say amusing, but
set down in black and white, they lose all charm, for me at least. Then
again, the boldly hazarded stroke of wit has this peculiarity, that at
the moment it pleases us while it astonishes us by its boldness, but
when told afterwards, it sounds offensive, and disgusts us.

The dessert was brought in, and I was afraid that the cross-fire
would still be kept up, when suddenly my fair neighbour turned quite
composedly to me and said,--"The priests may gulp their Syracusan wine
in peace, for I cannot succeed in worrying a single one to death,--no,
not even in spoiling their appetites. Now, let me have some rational
talk with you; for what a heavy sort of thing must a conversation
with Filangieri be! The good creature; he gives himself a great deal
of trouble for nothing. I often say to him, if you make new laws,
we must give ourselves fresh pains to find out how we can forthwith
transgress them, just as we have already set at naught the old. Only
look now, how beautiful Naples is! For these many years the people have
lived free from care and contented, and if now and then some poor
wretch is hanged, all the rest still pursue their own merry course."
She then proposed that I should pay a visit to Sorrento, where she
had a large estate; her steward would feast me with the best of fish,
and the delicious _mungana_, (flesh of a sucking calf). The mountain
air, and the unequalled prospect, would be sure to cure me of all
philosophy,--then she would come herself, and not a trace should remain
of all my wrinkles, which, by the bye, I had allowed to grow before
their time, and together we would have a right merry time of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, March_ 13, 1787.

To-day also I write you a few lines, in order that letter may provoke
letter. Things go well with me--however, I see less than I ought. The
place induces an indolent and easy sort of life; nevertheless, my idea
of it is gradually becoming more and more complete.

On Sunday we were in Pompeii. Many a calamity has happened in the
world, but never one that has caused so much entertainment to posterity
as this one. I scarcely know of anything that is more interesting.
The houses are small and close together, but within they are all most
exquisitely painted. The gate of the city is remarkable, with the tombs
close to it. The tomb of a priestess, a semicircular bench, with a
stone back, on which was the inscription cut in large characters. Over
the back you have a sight of the sea and the setting sun--a glorious
spot, worthy of the beautiful idea.

We found there good and merry company from Naples; the men are
perfectly natural and light-hearted. We took our dinner at the "Torre
del' Annunziata," with our table placed close to the sea. The day was
extremely fine. The view towards Castell a Mare and Sorrento, near and
incomparable. My companions were quite rapturous in praise of their
native place; some asserted that without a sight of the sea it was
impossible to live. To me it is quite enough that I have its image in
my soul, and so, when the time comes, may safely return to my mountain
home.

Fortunately, there is here a very honest painter of landscapes, who
imparts to his pieces the very impression of the rich and open country
around. He has already executed some sketches for me.

[Sidenote: Naples--Pompeii--Portici.]

The Vesuvian productions I have now pretty well studied; things,
however, assume a different signification when one sees them in
connection. Properly, I ought to devote the rest of my life to
observation: I should discover much that would enlarge man's knowledge.
Pray tell Herder that my botanical discoveries are continually
advancing; it is still the same principle, but it requires a whole life
to work it out. Perhaps I am already in a situation to draw the leading
lines of it.

I can now enjoy myself at the museum of Portici. Usually people make it
the first object,--we mean to make it our last. As yet I do not know
whether I shall be able to extend my tour; all things tend to drive me
back to Rome at Easter. I shall let things take their course.

Angelica has undertaken to paint a scene out of my "Iphigenia." The
thought is a very happy subject for a picture, and she will delineate
it excellently. It is the moment when Orestes finds himself again in
the presence of his sister and his friend. What the three characters
are saying to each other she has indicated by the grouping, and given
their words in the expressions of their countenances. From this
description you may judge how keenly sensitive she is, and how quick
she is to seize whatever is adapted to her nature. And it is really the
turning point of the whole drama.

Fare you well, and love me! Here the people are all very good, even
though they do not know what to make of me. Tischbein, on the other
hand, pleases them far better. This evening he hastily painted some
heads of the size of life, and about which they disported themselves as
strangely as the New Zealanders at the sight of a ship of war. Of this
an amusing anecdote.

Tischbein has a great knack of etching with a pen the shapes of gods
and heroes, of the size of life, and even more. He uses very few lines,
but cleverly puts in the shades with a broad pencil, so that the heads
stand out roundly and nobly. The bystanders looked on with amazement,
and were highly delighted. At last an itching seized their fingers to
try and paint; they snatched the brushes and painted--one another's
beards, daubing each other's faces. Was not this an original trait of
human nature? And this was done in an elegant circle, in the house of
one who was himself a clever draughtsman and painter! It is impossible
to form an idea of this race without having seen it.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Caserta, Wednesday, March_ 14, 1787.

I am here on a visit to Hackert, in his highly agreeable apartments,
which have been assigned him in the ancient castle. The new palace,
somewhat huge and Escurial-like, of a quadrangular plan, with many
courts, is royal enough. The site is uncommonly fine, on one of the
most fertile plains in the world, and yet the gardens trench on the
mountains. From these an aqueduct brings down an entire river, to
supply water to the palace and the district; and the whole can, on
occasion, be thrown on some artificially-arranged rocks, to form a most
glorious cascade. The gardens are beautifully laid out, and suit well
with a district which itself is thought a garden.

The castle is truly kingly. It appears to me, however, particularly
gloomy; and no one of us could bring himself to think the vast and
empty rooms comfortable. The King probably is of the same opinion, for
he has caused a house to be built on the mountains, which, smaller and
more proportioned to man's littleness, is intended for a hunting-box
and country-seat.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Caserta, Thursday, March_ 15, 1787.

Hackert is lodged very comfortably in the old castle--it is quite roomy
enough for all his guests. Constantly busy with drawing and painting,
he nevertheless is very social, and easily draws men around him, as in
the end he generally makes every one become his scholar; he has also
quite won me by putting up patiently with my weaknesses, and insists,
above all things, on distinctness of drawing, and marked and clear
keeping. When he paints, he has three colours always ready; and as he
works on and uses one after another, a picture is produced, one knows
not how or whence. I wish the execution were as easy as it looks. With
his usual blunt honesty he said to ----, "You have capacity, but you
are unable to accomplish anything; stay with me a year and a half, and
you shall be able to produce works which shall be a delight to yourself
and to others." Is not this a text on which one might preach eternally
to dilettanti:--We would like to see what sort of a pupil we can make
of you.

[Sidenote: Naples--Sulzer's theory of the fine arts.]

The special confidence with which the queen honors him is evinced not
merely by the fact that he gives lessons in practice to the princesses,
but still more so by his being frequently summoned on an evening to
talk with and instruct them on art and kindred subjects. He makes
Sulzer's book the basis of such lectures, selecting the articles, as
entertainment or conviction may be his object.

I was obliged to approve of this, and, in consequence, to laugh
at myself. What a difference is there between him who wishes to
investigate principles, and one whose highest object is to work on the
world and to teach them for their mere private amusement. Sulzer's
theory was always odious to me on account of the falseness of its
fundamental maxim, but now I saw that the book contained much more
than the multitude require. The varied information which is here
communicated, the mode of thinking with which alone so active a mind as
Sulzer's could be satisfied, must have been quite sufficient for the
ordinary run of people.

Many happy and profitable hours have I spent with the picture-restorer
Anders, who has been summoned hither from Rome, and resides in the
Castle, and industriously pursues his work, in which the king takes
a great interest. Of his skill in restoring old paintings, I dare
not begin to speak, since it would be necessary to describe the
whole process of this yet difficult craft,--and wherein consists the
difficulty of the problem, and the merit of success.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Caserta, March_ 16, 1787.

Your dear letter of the 19th February reached me to-day, and I must
forthwith dispatch a word or two in reply. How glad should I be to come
to my senses again, by thinking of my friends!

Naples is a paradise: in it every one lives in a sort of intoxicated
self-forgetfulness. It is even so with me; I scarcely know myself--I
seem quite an altered man. Yesterday I said to myself: either you have
always been mad, or you are so now.

I have paid a visit to the ruins of ancient Capua, and all that is
connected with it.

In this country one first begins to have a true idea of what vegetation
is, and why man tills the fields. The flax here is already near to
blossoming, and the wheat a span and a-half high. Around Caserta the
land is perfectly level, the fields worked as clean and as fine as the
beds of a garden. All of them are planted with poplars, and from tree
to tree the vine spreads; and yet, notwithstanding this shade, the soil
below produces the finest and most abundant crops possible. What will
they be when the spring shall come in power! Hitherto we have had very
cold winds, and there has been snow on the mountains.

Within fourteen days I must decide whether to go to Sicily or not.
Never before have I been so tossed backwards and forwards in coming to
a resolution: every day something will occur to recommend the trip; the
next morning--some circumstance will be against it. Two spirits are
contending for me.

I say this in confidence, and for my female friends alone: speak not
a word of it to my male friends. I am well aware that my "Iphigenia"
has fared strangely. The public were so accustomed to the old form,
expressions which it had adopted from frequent hearing and reading,
were familiar to it; and now quite a different tone is sounding in its
ears; and I clearly see that no one, in fact, thanks me for the endless
pains I have been at. Such a work is never finished: it must, however,
pass for such, as soon as the author has done his utmost, considering
time and circumstances.

All this, however, will not be able to deter me from trying a similar
operation with "Tasso." Perhaps it would be better to throw it into
the fire; however, I shall adhere to my resolution, and since it must
be what it is, I shall make a wonderful work of it. On this account,
I am pleased to find that the printing of my works goes on so slowly;
and then, again, it is well to be at a distance from the murmurs of the
compositor. Strange enough that even in one's most independent actions,
one expects, nay, requires a stimulus.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Naples--Lady Hamilton.]

_Caserta, March_ 16, 1787.

If in Rome one can readily set oneself to study, here one can do
nothing but live. You forget yourself and the world; and to me it is
a strange feeling to go about with people who think of nothing but
enjoying themselves. Sir William Hamilton, who still resides here as
ambassador from England, has at length, after his long love of art,
and long study, discovered the most perfect of admirers of nature and
art in a beautiful young woman. She lives with him: an English woman
of about twenty years old. She is very handsome, and of a beautiful
figure. The old knight has had made for her a Greek costume, which
becomes her extremely. Dressed in this, and letting her hair loose,
and taking a couple of shawls, she exhibits every possible variety of
posture, expression, and look, so that at the last the spectator almost
fancies it is a dream. One beholds here in perfection, in movement,
in ravishing variety, all that the greatest of artists have rejoiced
to be able to produce. Standing, kneeling, sitting, lying down, grave
or sad, playful, exulting, repentant, wanton, menacing, anxious--all
mental states follow rapidly one after another. With wonderful taste
she suits the folding of her veil to each expression, and with the
same handkerchief makes every kind of head-dress. The old knight holds
the light for her, and enters into the exhibition with his whole soul.
He thinks he can discern in her a resemblance to all the most famous
antiques, all the beautiful profiles on the Sicilian coins--aye, of
the Apollo Belvedere itself. This much at any rate is certain--the
entertainment is unique. We spent two evenings on it with thorough
enjoyment. To-day Tischbein is engaged in painting her.

What I have seen and inferred of the _personnel_ of the Court requires
to be further tested, before I set it down. To-day the king is gone
hunting the wolves: they hope to kill at least five.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, March_ 17, 1787.

When I would write words, images only start before my eyes,--the
beautiful land, the free sea; the hazy islands, the roaring
mountain;--powers to delineate all this fail me.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here in this country one at last understands how it ever came into the
head of man to till the ground--here where it produces everything, and
where one may look for as many as from three to five crops in the year.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have seen much, and reflected still more. The world opens itself to
me more and more--all even that I have long known is at last becoming
my own. How quick to know, but how slow to put in practice, is the
human creature!

       *       *       *       *       *

The only pity is, that I cannot at each moment communicate to others my
observations. But, both as man and artist, one is here driven backwards
and forwards by a hundred ideas of his own, while his services are put
in requisition by hundreds of persons. His situation is peculiar and
strange; he cannot freely sympathize with another's being, because he
finds his own exertions so put to the stretch.

       *       *       *       *       *

And after all, the world is nothing but a wheel; in its whole periphery
it is every where similar, but, nevertheless, it appears to us so
strange, because we ourselves are carried round with it.

       *       *       *       *       *

What I always said has actually come to pass: in this land alone do I
begin to understand and to unravel many a phenomenon of nature, and
complication of opinion. I am gathering from every quarter, and shall
bring back with me a great deal,--certainly much love of my own native
land, and joy to live with a few dear friends.

       *       *       *       *       *

With regard to my Sicilian tour, the gods still hold the scales in
their hands: the index still wavers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Who can the friend be who has thus mysteriously announced? Only, may I
not neglect him in my pilgrimage and tour in the island!

       *       *       *       *       *

The frigate from Palermo has returned: in eight days she sets sail
again. Whether I shall sail with it, and be back at Rome by Passion
Week, I have not as yet determined. Never in my life have I been so
undecided: a trifle will turn the scale.

       *       *       *       *       *

With men I get on rather better: for I feel that one must weigh
them by avoirdupois weight, and not by the jeweller's scales;
as, unfortunately, friends too often weigh one another in their
hypochondriacal humours and in an over-exacting spirit.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here men know nothing of one another; they scarcely observe that others
are also going on their way, side by side with them. They run all day
backwards and forwards in a Paradise, without looking around them; and
if the neighbouring jaws of hell begin to open and to rage, they have
recourse to S. Januarius.

       *       *       *       *       *

To pass through such a countless multitude, with its restless
excitement, is strange, but salutary. Here they are all crossing
and recrossing one another, and yet every one finds his way and his
object. In so great a crowd and bustle I feel myself perfectly calm and
solitary; the more bustling the streets become, the more quietly I move.

[Sidenote: Naples--Rousseau.]

Often do I think of Rousseau and his hypochondriacal discontent; and
I can thoroughly understand how so fine an organization may have been
deranged. Did I not myself feel such sympathy with natural objects; and
did I not see that, in the apparent perplexity, a hundred seemingly
contrary observations admit of being reconciled, and arranged side by
side, just as the geometer by a cross line tests many measurements, I
should often think myself mad.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, March_ 18, 1787.

We must not any longer put off our visit to Herculaneum, and the
Museum of Portici, where the curiosities which have been dug out of it
are collected and preserved. That ancient city, lying at the foot of
Vesuvius, was entirely covered with lava, which subsequent eruptions
successively raised so high, that the buildings are at present sixty
feet below the surface. The city was discovered by some men coming upon
a marble pavement, as they were digging a well. It is a great pity that
the excavation was not executed systematically by German miners; for
it is admitted that the work, which was carried on at random, and with
the hope of plunder, has spoilt many a noble monument of ancient art.
After descending sixty steps into a pit, by torch-light you gaze in
admiration at the theatre which once stood beneath the open sky, and
listen to the guide recounting all that was found there, and carried
off.

We entered the museum well recommended, and were well received;
nevertheless we were not allowed to take any drawings. Perhaps on this
account we paid the more attention to what we saw, and the more vividly
transported ourselves into those long-passed times, when all these
things surrounded their living owners, and ministered to the use and
enjoyment of life. The little houses and rooms of Pompeii now appeared
to me at once more spacious and more confined--more confined, because I
fancied them to myself crammed full of so many precious objects: more
spacious, because these very objects could not have been furnished
merely as necessaries, but, being decorated with the most graceful
and ingenious devices of the imitative arts, while they delighted the
taste, must also have enlarged the mind far beyond what the amplest
house-room could ever have done.

One sees here, for instance, a nobly-shaped pail, mounted at the top
with a highly-ornamented edge. When you examine it more closely, you
find that this rim rises on two sides, and so furnishes convenient
handles by which the vessel may be lifted. The lamps, according to
the number of their wicks, are ornamented with masks and mountings,
so that each burner illuminates a genuine figure of art. We also saw
some high and gracefully slender stands of iron for holding lamps,
the pendant burners being suspended with figures of all kinds, which
display a wonderful fertility of invention; and as, in order to please
and delight the eye, they sway and oscillate, the effect surpasses all
description.

In the hope of being able to pay a second visit, we followed the usher
from room to room, and snatched all the delight and instruction that
was possible from a cursory view.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Naples--Engagement with Kniep.]

_Naples, Monday, March_ 19, 1787.

Within these last few days I have formed a new connexion. Tischbein for
three or four weeks has faithfully lent me all the assistance in his
power, and diligently explained to me the works both of nature and art.
Yesterday, however, after being at the Museum of Portici, we had some
conversation together, and we came to the conclusion that, considering
his own artistic objects, he could not perform, with credit to himself,
the works which, in the hope of some future appointment in Naples, he
has undertaken for the Court and for several persons in the city, nor
do justice to my views, wishes, and fancies. With sincere good wishes
for my success, he has therefore recommended to me for my constant
companion a young man whom, since I arrived here, I have often seen,
not without feeling some inclination and liking for him. His name is
Kniep, who, after a long stay at Rome, has come to Naples as the true
field and element of the landscape-painter. Even in Rome I had heard
him highly spoken of as a clever draughtsman--only his industry was
not much commended. I have tolerably studied his character, and think
the ground of this censure arises rather from a want of a decision,
which certainly may be overcome, if we are long together A favourable
beginning confirms me in this hope; and if he continues to go on thus,
we shall continue good companions for some time.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, March_ 19, 1787.

One needs only to walk along the streets, and keep one's eyes well
open, and one is sure to see the most unequalled of scenes. At the
Mole, one of the noisiest quarters of the city, I saw yesterday a
Pulcinello, who on a temporary stage of planks was quarrelling with
an ape, while from a balcony above a right pretty maiden was exposing
her charms to every eye. Not far from the ape and his stage a quack
doctor was recommending to the credulous crowd his nostrums for every
evil. Such a scene painted by a Gerard Dow would not fail to charm
contemporaries and posterity.

To-day, moreover, was the festival of S. Joseph. He is the patron of
all Fritaruoli--that is, pastry-cooks, and understands baking in a very
extensive sense. Because beneath the black and seething oil hot flames
will, of course, rage,--therefore, every kind of torture by fire falls
within his province. Accordingly, yesterday evening, being the eve of
the Saint's day, the fronts of the houses were adorned with pictures,
to the best of the inmates' skill, representing souls in Purgatory,
or the Last Judgment, with plenty of fire and flame. Before the doors
frying-pans were hissing on hastily-constructed hearths. One partner
was working the dough, another shaped it into twists, and threw it into
the boiling lard; a third stood by the frying-pan, holding a short
skewer, with which he drew out the twists as soon as they were done,
and shoved them off on another skewer to a fourth party, who offered
them to the bystanders. The two last were generally young apprentices,
and wore white curly wigs,--this head-dress being the Neapolitan symbol
of an angel. Other figures besides completed the group; and these were
busy in presenting wine to the busy cooks, or in drinking themselves,
crying, and puffing the article all the while; the angels, too, and
cooks were all clamouring. The people crowded to buy--for all pastry is
sold cheap on this evening, and a part of the profits given to the poor.

Scenes of this kind may be witnessed without end. Thus fares it every
day; always something new--some fresh absurdity. The variety of
costume, too, that meets you in the streets; the multitude, too, of
passages in the Toledo street alone!

Thus there is plenty of most original entertainment, if only one will
live with the people; it is so natural, that one almost becomes natural
oneself. For this is the original birth-place of Pulcinello, the true
national mask--the Harlequin of Pergamo, and the Hanswurth of the
Tyrol. This Pulcinello now is a thoroughly easy, sedate, somewhat
indifferent, perhaps lazy, and yet humorous fellow. And so one meets
everywhere with a "Kellner" and a "Hausknecht." With ours I had special
fun yesterday, and yet there was nothing more than my sending him to
fetch some paper and pens. A half misunderstanding, a little loitering,
good humour and roguery, produced a most amusing scene, which might be
very successfully brought out on any stage.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, Tuesday, March_ 20, 1787.

The news that an eruption of lava had just commenced, which, taking the
direction of Ottajano, was invisible at Naples, tempted me to visit
Vesuvius for the third time. Scarcely had I jumped out of my cabriolet
(zweirädrigen einpferdigen Fuhrwerk), at the foot of the mountain,
when immediately appeared the two guides who had accompanied us on our
previous ascent. I had no wish to do without either, but took one out
of gratitude and custom, the other for reliance on his judgment,--and
the two for the greater convenience. Having ascended the summit, the
older guide remained with our cloaks and refreshment, while the younger
followed me, and we boldly went straight towards a dense volume of
smoke, which broke forth from the bottom of the funnel; then we quickly
went downwards by the side of it, till at last, under the clear heaven,
we distinctly saw the lava emitted from the rolling clouds of smoke.

We may hear an object spoken of a thousand times, but its peculiar
features will never be caught till we see it with our own eyes. The
stream of lava was small, not broader perhaps than ten feet, but the
way in which it flowed down a gentle and tolerably smooth plain was
remarkable. As it flowed along, it cooled both on the sides and on
the surface, so that it formed a sort of canal, the bed of which was
continually raised in consequence of the molten mass congealing oven
beneath the fiery stream, which, with uniform action, precipitated
right and left the scoria which were floating on its surface. In this
way a regular dam was at length thrown up, in which the glowing stream
flowed on as quietly as any mill-stream. We passed along the tolerably
high dam, while the scoria rolled regularly off the sides at our feet.
Some cracks in the canal afforded opportunity of looking at the living
stream from below, and as it rushed onwards, we observed it from above.

A very bright sun made the glowing lava look dull; but a moderate steam
rose from it into the pure air. I felt a great desire to go nearer to
the point where it broke out from the mountain; there my guide averred,
it at once formed vaults and roofs above itself, on which he had often
stood. To see and experience this phenomenon, we again ascended the
hill, in order to come from behind to this point. Fortunately at this
moment the place was cleared by a pretty strong wind, but not entirely,
for all round it the smoke eddied from a thousand crannies; and now
at last we stood on the top of the solid roof, (which looked like a
hardened mass of twisted dough), but which, however, projected so far
outwards, that it was impossible to see the welling lava.

We ventured about twenty steps further, but the ground on which we
stepped became hotter and hotter, while around us rolled an oppressive
steam, which obscured and hid the sun; the guide, who was a few steps
in advance of me, presently turned back, and seizing hold of me,
hurried out of this Stygian exhalation.

After we had refreshed our eyes with the clear prospect, and washed
our gums and throat with wine, we went round again to notice any other
peculiarities which might characterise this peak of hell, thus rearing
itself in the midst of a Paradise. I again observed attentively some
chasms, in appearance like so many Vulcanic forges, which emitted no
smoke, but continually shot out a steam of hot glowing air. They were
all tapestried, as it were, with a kind of stalactite, which covered
the funnel to the top, with its knobs and chintz-like variation of
colours. In consequence of the irregularity of the forges, I found
many specimens of this sublimation hanging within reach, so that,
with our staves and a little contrivance, we were able to hack off a
few, and to secure them. I saw in the shops of the dealers in lava
similar specimens, labelled simply "Lava;" and I was delighted to have
discovered that it was volcanic soot precipitated from the hot vapour,
and distinctly exhibiting the sublimated mineral particles which it
contained.

The most glorious of sunsets, a heavenly evening, refreshed me on
my return; still I felt how all great contrasts confound the mind
and senses. From the terrible to the beautiful--from the beautiful
to the terrible; each destroys the other, and produces a feeling of
indifference. Assuredly, the Neapolitan would be quite a different
creature, did he not feel himself thus hemmed in between Elysium and
Tartarus.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, March_ 22, 1787.

Were I not impelled by the German spirit, and desire to learn and to
do rather than to enjoy, I should tarry a little longer in this school
of a light-hearted and happy life, and try to profit by it still more.
Here it is enough for contentment, if a man has ever so little an
income. The situation of the city, the mildness of the climate, can
never be sufficiently extolled; but it is almost exclusively to these
that the stranger is referred.

[Sidenote: Naples-Sir William Hamilton.]

No doubt, one who has abundance of time, tact, and means, might remain
here for a long time, with profit to himself. Thus Sir William Hamilton
has contrived highly to enjoy a long residence in this city, and now,
in the evening of his life, is reaping the fruits of it. The rooms
which he has had furnished in the English style, are most delightful,
and the view from the corner room, perhaps, unique. Below you is the
sea, with a view of Capri, Posilippo on the right, with the promenade
of Villa Real between you and the grotto; on the left an ancient
building belonging to the Jesuits, and beyond it the coast stretching
from Sorrento to Cape Minerva. Another prospect equal to this is
scarcely to be found in Europe,--at least, not in the centre of a great
and populous city.

Hamilton is a person of universal taste, and after having wandered
through the whole realm of creation, has found rest at last in a most
beautiful wife, a masterpiece of the great artist--Nature.

And now after all this, and a hundred-fold more of enjoyment, the
sirens from over the sea are beckoning me; and if the wind is
favorable, I shall start at the same time with this letter,--it for
the north, I for the south. The human mind will not be confined to any
limits--I especially require breadth and extent in an eminent degree;
however, I must content myself on this occasion with, a rapid survey,
and must not think of a long fixed look. If by hearing and thinking, I
can only attain to as much of any object as a finger's tip, I shall be
able to make out the whole hand.

Singularly enough, within these few days, a friend has spoken to me
of _Wilhelm Meister_, and urged me to continue it. In this climate, I
don't think it possible; however, something of the air of this heaven
may, perhaps, be imparted to the closing books. May my existence only
unfold itself sufficiently to lengthen the stem, and to produce richer
and finer flowers; certainly it were better for me never to have come
here at all, than to go away unregenerated.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, March_ 22, 1787.

Yesterday we saw a picture of Correggio's, which is for sale. It is
not, indeed, in very good preservation; however, it still retains the
happiest stamp possible of all the peculiar charms of this painter. It
represents a Madonna, with the infant, hesitating between the breast
and some pears which an angel is offering it; the subject, therefore,
is the weaning of Christ. To me the idea appears extremely tender; the
composition easy and natural, and happily and charmingly executed. It
immediately reminded me of the Vow of S. Catherine, and, in my opinion,
the painting is unquestionably from the hand of Correggio.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, Friday, March_ 23, 1787.

The terms of my engagement with Kniep are now settled, and it has
commenced in a right practical way. We went together to Pæstuin, where,
and also on our journey thither and back, he showed the greatest
industry with his pencil. He has taken some of the most glorious
outlines possible. He seems to relish this moving but busy sort of
life, which has called for a talent which he was scarcely conscious of.
This comes of being resolute: but it is exactly here that his accurate
and nice skill shows itself. He never stops to surround the paper on
which he is about to draw with the usual rectangular lines; however, he
seems to take as much pleasure in cutting points to his pencil, which
is of the best English lead, as in drawing itself. Thus his outlines
are just what one would wish them to be.

[Sidenote: Naples--A sketching excursion.]

Now we have come to the following arrangement:--From this clay forward,
we are to live and travel together; while he is to have nothing to
trouble himself about but drawing, as he has done for the last few days.

All the sketches are to be mine; but in order to a further profit,
after our return, from our connexion, he is to finish for a certain sum
a number of them, which I am to select; and then, remuneration for the
others is to be settled according to the dexterity he evinces in them,
and the importance of the views taken, and other considerations. This
arrangement has made me quite happy, and now at last I can give you an
account of our journey.

Sitting in a light two-wheeled carriage, and driving in turn, with a
rough good-natured boy behind, we rolled through the glorious country,
which Kniep greeted with a true artistic eye. We now reached the
mountain stream, which, running along a smooth artificial channel,
skirts most delightful rocks and woods. At last, in the district of
_Alla Cava_, Kniep could not contain himself, but set to work to fix
on paper a splendid mountain, which right before us stood out boldly
against the blue sky, and with a clever and characteristic touch drew
the outlines of the summit, with the sides also, down to its very base.
We both made merry with it, as the earnest of our contract.

A similar sketch was taken in the evening from the window, of a
singularly lovely and rich country, which passes all my powers of
description. Who would not have been disposed to study at such a spot,
in those bright times, when a high school of art was flourishing?
Very early in the morning we set off by an untrodden path, coming
occasionally on marshy spots towards two beautifully shaped hills. We
crossed brooks and pools, where the wild bulls, like hippopotamuses,
were wallowing, and looking upon us with their wild red eyes.

The country grew flatter and more desolate; the scarcity of the
buildings bespoke a sparing cultivation. At last, when we were doubting
whether we were passing through rocks or ruins, some great oblong
masses enabled us to distinguish the remains of temples and other
monuments of a once splendid city. Kniep, who had already sketched on
the way the two picturesque limestone hills, suddenly stopped to find
a spot from which to seize and exhibit the peculiarity of this most
unpicturesque region.

A countryman, whom I took for my guide, led me the meanwhile
through the buildings. The first sight of them excited nothing but
astonishment. I found myself in a perfectly strange world; for, as
centuries pass from the severe to the pleasing, they form man's taste
at the same time--indeed, create him after the same law. But now our
eyes, and through them our whole inner being, has been used to, and
decidedly prepossessed in favor of, a lighter style of architecture;
so that these crowded masses of stumpy conical pillars appear heavy,
not to say frightful. But I soon recollected myself, called to mind
the history of art, thought of the times when the spirit of the age
was in unison with this style of architecture, and realised the severe
style of sculpture; and in less than an hour found myself reconciled
to it,--nay, I went so far as to thank my genius for permitting me to
see with my own eyes such well-preserved remains, since drawings give
us no true idea of them; for, in architectural sketches, they seem more
elegant, and in perspective views even more stumpy than they actually
are. It is only by going round them, and passing through them, that
you can impart to them their real character; you evoke for them, not
to say infuse into them, the very feeling which the architect had in
contemplation. And thus I spent the whole day, Kneip the while working
away most diligently in taking very accurate sketches. How delighted
was I to be exempt from that care, and yet to acquire such unfailing
tokens for the aid of memory! Unfortunately, there was no accommodation
for spending the night here. We returned to Sorrento, and started
early next morning for Naples. Vesuvius, seen from the back, is a rich
country; poplars, with their colossal pyramids, on the road-side, in
the foreground; these, too, formed an agreeable feature, which we
halted a moment to take.

We now reached an eminence. The most extensive area in the world opened
before us. Naples, in all its splendour: its mile-long line of houses
on the flat shore of the bay, the promontories, tongues of land and
walls of rock; then the islands, and, behind all, the sea,--the whole
was a ravishing sight.

A most hideous singing, or rather exulting cry and howl of joy, from
the boy behind, frightened and disturbed us. Somewhat angrily, I called
out to him; he had never had any harsh words from us,--he had been a
very good boy.

For a while he did not move; then he patted me lightly on the shoulder,
and pushing between us both his right arm, with the fore-finger
stretched out, exclaimed, "_Signor, perdonate! questa è la mia
patria!_"--which, being interpreted, runs, "Forgive me, Sir, for that
is my native land!" And so I was ravished a second time. Something like
a tear stood in the eyes of the phlegmatic child of the north.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, March_ 25, 1787.

Although I saw that Kniep was delighted to go with me to the festival
of the Annunciation, still I could not fail to observe that there was
a something he was sorry to part from. His candour could not let him
long conceal from me the fact, that he had formed here a close and
faithful attachment. It was a pretty tale to listen to, the story of
their first meeting, and the description of the fair one's behaviour
up to this time told in her favour; Kniep, moreover, insisted on my
going and seeing for myself how pretty she really was. Accordingly, an
opportunity was contrived, and so as to afford me the enjoyment of one
of the most agreeable views over Naples. He took me to the flat roof
of a house, which commanded a survey of the lower town, near the Mole,
the bay, and the shore of Sorrento; all that lay beyond on the left,
became fore-shortened in the strangest way possible, and which, except
from this particular spot, was never witnessed. Naples is, every where,
beautiful and glorious.

[Sidenote: Naples--An apparition.]

While we were admiring the country around, suddenly, (although
expected), a very beautiful face presented itself above the roof--for
the entrance to these flat roofs is generally an oblong opening in the
roof, which can be covered, when not used, by a trap-door. While, then,
the little angel appeared in full figure above the opening, it occurred
to me that ancient painters usually represent the Annunciation by
making the angel ascend by a similar trap-door. But the angel on this
occasion was really of a very fine form, of a very pretty face, and a
good natural carriage. It was a real joy to me, under the free heaven,
and in presence of the finest prospect in the world, to see my new
friend so happy. After her departure, he confessed to me that he had
hitherto voluntarily endured poverty, as by that means he had enjoyed
her love; and at the same time, had learned to appreciate her contented
disposition: and now his better prospects, and improved condition, were
chiefly prized, because they procured him the means of making her days
more comfortable.



_Naples, March_ 25, 1787.

After this pleasant little incident I walked on the shore, calm and
happy. There a good insight into botanical matters opened on me. Tell
Herder that I am very near finding the primal vegetable type; only I
fear that no one will be able to trace in it the rest of the vegetable
kingdom. My famous theory of the Cotyledons is so refined, that perhaps
it is impossible to go further with it.



_Naples, March_ 26, 1787.

To-morrow this letter will leave this for you. On Thursday, the 29th,
I go to Palermo in the corvette, which formerly, in my ignorance of
sea matters, I promoted to the rank of a frigate. The doubt whether I
should go or remain made me unsettled even in the use of my stay here;
now I have made up my mind, things go on better. For my mental state
this journey is salutary--indeed necessary. I see Sicily pointing to
Africa, and to Asia, and to the wonderful, whither so many rays of the
world's history are directed: even to stand still is no trifle!

I have treated Naples quite in its own style. I have been anything but
industrious. And yet I have seen a great deal, and formed a pretty
general idea of the land, its inhabitants, and condition. On my return
there is much that I shall have to go over again; indeed, only "go
over," for by the 29th of June I must be in Rome again. As I have
missed the Holy Week, I must not fail to be present at the festivities
of St. Peter's Day. My Sicilian expedition must not altogether draw me
off from my original plans.

The day before yesterday we had a violent storm, with thunder,
lightning, and rain. Now it is again clear; a glorious Tramontane is
blowing; if it lasts, we shall have a rapid passage.

Yesterday I went with my fellow-traveller to see the vessel, and to
take our cabin. A sea voyage is utterly out of the pale of my ideas;
this short trip, which will probably be a mere coasting one, will help
my imagination, and enlarge my world. The captain is a young lively
fellow; the ship trim and clean, built in America, and a good sailer.

[Sidenote: Naples-Departure for Sicily.]

Here every spot begins to look green; Sicily, they tell me, I shall
find still more so. By the time you get this letter I shall be on my
return, leaving Trinacria behind me. Such is man; he is always either
anticipating or recalling; I have not yet been there; and yet I now am,
in thought, back again with you! However, for the confusion of this
letter I am not to blame. Every moment I am interrupted, and yet I
would, if possible, fill this sheet to the very corner.

Just now I have had a visit from a Marchese Berio, a young man who
appears to be well informed. He was anxious to make the acquaintance
of the author of "Werther." Generally, indeed, the people here evince
a great desire for, and delight in, learning and accomplishments. Only
they are too happy to go the right way to acquire them. Had I more
time, I would willingly devote it to observing the Neapolitans. These
four weeks--what are they, compared with the endless variety of life?

Now, fare you well. On these travels I have learnt one thing at
least--how to travel well; whether I am learning to live, I know not.
The men who pretend to understand that art, are, in nature and manner,
too widely different from me, for setting up any claim to such a talent.

Farewell, and love me as sincerely as I from my heart remember you.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, March_ 28, 1787.

These few days have been entirely passed in packing and leave-taking;
with making all necessary arrangements, and paying bills; looking for
missing articles, and with preparations of all kinds. I set the time
down as lost.

The Prince of Walbeck has, just at my departure, unsettled me again.
For he has been talking of nothing less than that I should arrange,
on my return, to go with him to Greece and Dalmatia. When one enters
once into the world, and gives way to it, it is necessary to be very
cautious, lest one should be carried away, not to say driven mad by it.
I am utterly incapable of adding another syllable.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Naples, March_ 29, 1787.

For some days the weather has been very unsettled; to-day, (the
appointed time for our sailing), it is again as fine as possible. A
favourable north wind, a bright sunny sky, beneath which one wishes
oneself in the wide world! Now I bid an affectionate farewell to all
my friends in Weimar and Gotha. Your love accompanies me; for wherever
I am I feel my need of you. Last night I dreamt I was again among old
familiar faces. It seems as if I could not unload my boat of pheasants'
feathers any where but among you. May it be well loaded.

       *       *       *       *       *

SICILY.

_At Sea, Thursday, March_ 29, 1787.

A fresh and favourable breeze from the north-east is not blowing this
time, as it did at the last sailing of the packet. But, unfortunately,
a direct head-wind comes from the opposite quarter, the south-west--and
so we are experiencing to our cost how much the traveller by sea
depends upon the caprice of the wind and weather. Out of all patience,
we whiled away the morning either on the shore or in the coffee-house;
at last, at noon we went on board, and the weather being extremely
fine, we enjoyed the most glorious of views. The corvette lay at
anchor near to the Mole. With an unclouded sun the atmosphere was
hazy, giving to the rocky walls of Sorrento, which were in the shade,
a tint of most beautiful blue. Naples, with its living multitudes, lay
in the full sunshine, and glittered brilliantly with countless tints.
It was not until sunset that the vessel began slowly to move from her
moorings; then the wind which was contrary drove us over to Posilippo,
and its promontory. All night long the ship went quietly on its way.
She is a swift sailer, and was built in America, and is well fitted
with, cabins and berths. The passengers cheerful, but not boisterous.
Opera-singers and dancers, consigned to Palermo.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Friday, March_ 30, 1787.

By day-break we found ourselves between Ischia and Capri--perhaps
not more than a mile from the latter. The sun rose from behind the
mountains of Capri and Cape Minerva. Kniep diligently sketched the
outlines of the coasts and the islands, and took several beautiful
views. The slowness of the passage was favourable to his labours. We
were making our way but slowly under a light side-wind. We lost sight
of Vesuvius about four, just as we came in dew of Cape Minerva and
Ischia. These, too, disappeared about evening. The sun set in the sea,
attended with clouds, and a long streak of light, reaching for miles,
all of a brilliant purple. This phenomenon was also sketched by Kniep.
At last we lost sight altogether of the land, and the watery horizon
surrounded us, the night being clear, with lovely moonlight.

[Sidenote: The voyage to Sicily.]

These beautiful sights, however, I could only enjoy for a few moments,
for I was soon attacked with sea-sickness. I betook myself to my cabin,
chose an horizontal position, and abstaining from all meat or drink,
except white bread and red wine, soon found myself pretty comfortable
again. Shut out from the external world, I let the internal have full
sway; and, as a tedious voyage was to be anticipated, I immediately
set myself a heavy task in order to while away the time profitably.
Of all my papers I had only brought with me the first two acts of
"Tasso," written in poetic prose. These two acts, as regards their plan
and evolution, were nearly similar to the present ones, but, written
full ten years ago, had a somewhat soft and misty tone, which soon
disappeared, while, in accordance with my later notions, I made form
more predominant, and introduced more of rhythm.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Saturday, March_ 31, 1787.

The sun rose this morning from the water quite clear. About seven we
overtook a French vessel, which had left Naples two days before us,
so much the better sailer was our vessel: still we had no prospect as
yet of the end of our passage. We were somewhat cheered by the sight
of Ustica, but, unfortunately, on our left, when we ought to have had
it, like Capri, on our right. Towards noon the wind became directly
contrary, and we did not make the least way. The sea began to get
rough, and every one in the ship was sick.

I kept in my usual position, and the whole piece was thought over and
over, and through and through again. The hours passed away, and I
should not have noticed how they went, but for the roguish Kniep, on
whose appetite the waves had no influence. When, from time to time, he
brought me some wine and some bread, he took a mischievous delight in
expatiating on the excellent dinner in the cabin, the cheerfulness and
good nature of our young but clever captain, and on his regrets that I
was unable to enjoy my share of it. So, likewise, the transition from
joke and merriment to qualmishness and sickness, and the various ways
in which the latter manifested themselves in the different passengers,
afforded him rich materials for humorous description.

At four in the afternoon the captain altered the course of our vessel.
The mainsails were again set, and we steered direct for Ustica, behind
which, to our great joy, we discerned the mountains of Sicily. The wind
improved, and we bore rapidly towards Sicily, and a few little islands
appeared in view. The sunset was murky, the light of heaven being
veiled beneath a mist. The wind was pretty fair for the whole of the
evening; towards midnight the sea became very rough.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Sunday, April_ 1, 1787.

About 3 in the morning a violent storm. Half asleep and dreaming, I
went on with the plan of my drama; in the mean time there was great
commotion on deck; the sails were all taken in, and the vessel pitched
on the top of the waves. As day broke the storm abated, and the sky
cleared up. Now Ustica lay right on our left. They pointed out to me
a large turtle swimming a great distance off; by my telescope I could
easily discern it, as a living point. Towards noon we were clearly
able to distinguish the coast of Sicily with its headlands and bays,
but we had got very far to the leeward, and tacked on and off. Towards
mid-day we came nearer to the shore. The weather being clear, and the
sun shining bright, we saw quite distinctly the western coast from the
promontory of Lilybæum to Cape Gallo.

A shoal of dolphins attended our ship on both bows, and continually
shot a-head. It was amusing to watch them as they swam along, covered
by the clear transparent waves at one time, and at another springing
above the water, showing their fins and spine-ridged back, with their
sides playing in the light from gold to green, and from green to gold.

[Sidenote: The voyage to Sicily.]

As the land was direct on our lee, the captain lay to in a bay behind
Cape Gallo. Kniep failed not to seize the opportunity to sketch
the many beautiful scenes somewhat in detail. Towards sunset the
captain made again for the open sea, steering north-east, in order
to make the heights of Palermo. I ventured several times on deck,
but never intermitted for a moment my poetical labours; and thus I
became pretty well master of the whole piece. With a cloudy sky, a
bright but broken moonlight, the reflection on the sea was infinitely
beautiful. Paintings, in order to heighten the effect, generally lead
us to believe, that the reflection from the heavenly luminaries on
the water has its greatest breadth nearest to the spectator, where it
also possesses its greatest brilliancy. On this occasion, however, the
reflection was broadest at the horizon, and, like a sharp pyramid,
ended with sparkling waves close to the ship. During the night our
captain again frequently changed the tack.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Monday, April_ 2, 1787.

This morning, about 8 o'clock, we found ourselves over against Palermo.
The morning seemed to me highly delightful. During the days that I had
been shut up in my cabin, I had got on pretty well with the plan of my
drama. I felt quite well now, and was able to stay on deck, and observe
attentively the Sicilian coast. Kniep went on sketching away, and by
his accurate, but rapid pencil, many a sheet of paper was converted
into highly valuable mementoes of our landing, which, however, we still
had to wait for.

       *       *       *       *       *

PALERMO.

_Monday, April_ 2, 1787.

By 3 o'clock p.m., we at last, after much trouble and difficulty, got
into harbour, where a most glorious view lay before us. Perfectly
recovered from my sea-sickness, I enjoyed it highly. The town facing
north, lay at the foot of a high hill, with the sun (at this time of
day) shining above it. The sides of the buildings which looked towards
us, lay in a deep shade, which, however, was clear, and lit up by the
reflection from the water. On our right Monte Pellegrino, with its many
elegant outlines, in full light; on the left the coast, with its bays,
isthmuses, and headlands, stretching far away into the distance; and
the most agreeable effect was produced by the fresh green of some fine
trees, whose crowns, lit up from behind, swayed backwards and forwards
before the dark buildings, like great masses of glow-worms. A brilliant
haze gave a blueish tint to all the shades.

Instead of hurrying impatiently on shore, we remained on deck till we
were actually forced to land; for where could we hope soon to find a
position equal to this, or so favourable a point of view?

Through the singular gateway, which consists of two vast pillars, which
are left unconnected above, in order that the tower-high car of S.
Rosalia may be able to pass through, on her famous festival, we were
driven into the city, and alighted, almost immediately, at a large
hotel on our left. The host, an old, decent person, long accustomed to
see strangers of every nation and tongue, conducted us into a large
room, the balcony of which commanded a view of the sea, with the
roadstead, where we recognised our ship, Monte Rosalia, and the beach,
and were enabled to form an idea of our whereabouts. Highly satisfied
with the position of our room, We did not for some time observe that,
at the farther end of it, was an alcove, slightly raised, and concealed
by curtains, in which was a most spacious bed, with a magnificent
canopy and curtains of silk, in perfect keeping with the other
stately, but old fashioned, furniture of our apartment. This display
of splendour made me uneasy; so, as my custom was, I wished to make an
agreement with my host. To this the old man replied that conditions
were unnecessary, and he trusted I should have nothing to complain of
in him. We were also at liberty to make use of the ante-room, which
was next to our apartment, and cool, airy, and agreeable from its many
balconies.

We amused ourselves with the endless variety of views, and endeavoured
to sketch them one by one in pencil, or in colours, for here the eye
fell upon a plentiful harvest for the artist.

[Sidenote: Sicily--Palermo.]

In the evening the lovely moonlight attracted us once more to the
roadstead, and even after our return riveted us for some time on the
balcony. The light was peculiar,--the repose and loveliness of the
scene were extreme.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Palermo, Tuesday, April_ 3, 1787.

Our first business was to examine the city, which is easy enough to
survey, but difficult to know; easy, because a street a mile long, from
the lower to the upper gate, from the sea to the mountain, intersects
it, and is itself again crossed, nearly in its middle, by another.
Whatever lies on these two great lines is easily found; but in the
inner streets a stranger soon loses himself, and without a guide will
never extricate himself from their labyrinths.

Towards evening our attention was directed to the long line of
carriages, (of the well-known build,) in which the principal persons of
the neighbourhood were taking their evening drive from the city to the
beach, for the sake of the fresh air, amusement, and perhaps also for
intrigue.

It was full moon about two hours before midnight, and the evening
was in consequence indescribably glorious. The northerly position of
Palermo produces a very strange effect; as the city and shore come
between the sun and the harbour, its reflection is never observed on
the waves. On this account, though it was one of the very brightest
of days yesterday, I found the sea of a deep blue colour, solemn, and
oppressive; whereas, at Naples, after noon-day, it gets brighter and
brighter, and glitters with more airy lightness, and to a greater
distance.

Kniep has to-day left me to make my pilgrimages and observations by
myself, in order that he might accurately sketch the outline of Monte
Pellegrino, the most beautiful headland in the whole world.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Palermo, April_ 3, 1787.

Here again I must put a few things together, something in the way of an
appendix, and with the carelessness of familiarity.

At sunset of the 29th of March we set sail for Naples, and at last,
after a passage of four days and three hours, cast anchor in the
harbour of Palermo. The little diary which I enclose, will give an
account of ourselves and our fortunes. I never entered upon a journey
so calmly as I did this, and never have I had a quieter time of it
than during our passage, which a constant headwind has unusually
prolonged, even though I passed the time chiefly on my bed, in a close
little berth, to which I was obliged to keep during the first day,
in consequence of a violent attack of sea-sickness. Now my thoughts
pass over towards you; for if ever anything has exercised a decided
influence on my mind, this voyage has certainly done so.

He who has never seen himself surrounded on all sides by the sea, can
never possess an idea of the world, and of his own relation to it. As
a landscape painter, this great simple line has given me entirely new
ideas.

During our voyage we had, as the diary records, many changes, and,
on a small scale, experienced all a sailor's fortunes. However, the
safety and convenience of the packet-boat cannot be sufficiently
commended. Our captain is a very brave and an extremely handsome man.
My fellow-passengers consisted of a whole theatrical troop, well
mannered, tolerable, and agreeable. My artist, who accompanies me, is a
merry true-hearted fellow. In order to shorten the weary hours of the
passage, he has explained to me all the mechanical part of _aquarell_,
or painting in water colours,--an art which has been carried to a great
height of perfection in Italy. He thoroughly understands the effect
of particular colours in effecting certain tones, to produce which,
without knowing the secret, one might go on mixing for ever. I had,
it is true, learned a good deal of it in Rome, but never before so
systematically. The artists must have studied and perfected the art in
a country like Italy or this. No words can express the hazy brilliancy
which hung around the coasts, as on a most beautiful noon we neared
Palermo. He who has once seen it will never forget it. Now, at last, I
can understand Claude Lorraine, and can cherish a hope that hereafter,
in the north, I shall be able to produce, from my soul, at least a
faint idea of these glorious abodes. Oh! that only all littleness had
departed from it as entirely as the little charm of thatched roofs has
vanished from among my ideas of what a drawing should be. We shall see
what this "Queen of Islands" can do.

[Sidenote: Sicily-Palermo.]

No words can express the welcome--with its fresh green mulberry trees,
evergreen oleanders, and hedges of citron, &c. In the open gardens you
see large beds of ranunculuses and anemones. The air is mild, warm, and
fragrant; the wind refreshing. The full moon, too, rose from behind a
promontory, and shone upon the sea;--and this joyous scene after being
tossed about four days and nights on the waves!

Forgive me if, with a stump of a pen and the Indian-ink my
fellow-traveller uses for his sketches, I scribble down these remarks.
I send them to you as a faint lisping murmur; since I am preparing for
all that love me another record of these, my happy hours. What it is to
be I say not; and when you will receive it, that also it is out of my
power to tell.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Palermo, Tuesday, April_ 3.

This letter must, as far as possible, impart to you, my dearest
friends, a high treat; it is intended to convey to you a description
of an unrivalled bay, embracing a vast mass of waters. Beginning from
the east, where a flattish headland runs far out into the sea, it is
dotted with many rugged, beautifully-shaped, wood-crowned rocks, until
it reaches the fishing-huts of the suburbs; then the town itself, whose
foremost houses (and among them our own hotel) all look towards the
harbour and to the great gate by which we entered.

Then it stretches westwards, and passing the usual landing-place, where
vessels of smaller burden can lie to, comes next to what is properly
the harbour, near the Mole, which is the station of all larger vessels;
and then, at the western point, to protect the shipping, rises Monte
Pellegrino, with its beautiful contour, after leaving between it and
the mainland a lovely fertile valley, which at its other end again
reaches the sea.

Kniep sketched away. I took, with my mind's eye, the plan of the
country--(_ich schematisirte_)--with great delight; and now, glad
to have reached home again, we feel neither strength nor energy to
tell a long story, and to go into particulars. Our endeavours must,
therefore, be reserved for a future occasion; and this sheet must serve
to convince you of our inability adequately to seize these objects, or
rather of our presumption in thinking to grasp and master them in so
short a time.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Palermo, Wednesday April_ 4, 1787.

In the afternoon we paid a visit to the fertile and delightful valley
at the foot of the Southern Mountains, running by Palermo, and through
which the Oreto meanders. Here, too, is a call for the painter's eye,
and a practised hand to convey an idea of it. Kniep, however, hastily
seized an excellent point of view at a spot where the pent-up water was
dashing down from a half-broken weir, and was shaded by a lovely group
of trees, behind which an uninterrupted prospect opened up the valley,
affording a view of several farm buildings.

Beautiful spring weather, and a budding luxuriance, diffused over the
whole valley a refreshing feeling of peace, which our stupid guide
marred by his ill-timed erudition, telling us that in former days,
Hannibal had fought a battle here, and circumstantially detailing all
the dreadful feats of war which had been perpetrated on the spot. In
no friendly mood I reproved him for thus fatally calling up again such
departed spectres. It was bad enough, I said, that from time to time
the crops should be trodden down, if not by elephants, yet by men and
horses. At any rate, it was not right to scare away the peaceful dreams
of imagination by reviving such tumults and horrors.

The guide was greatly surprised that I could, on such a spot, despise
classical reminiscences; and I, too, could not make him understand how
greatly such a mingling of the past with the present displeased me.

Still more singular did our guide deem me, when at all the shallow
places, of which many were left quite dry by the stream, I searched
for pebbles, and carried off with me specimens of each sort. I again
found it difficult to make him understand that there was no readier
way of forming an idea of a mountainous district like that before us,
than by examining the nature of the stones which are washed down by
the streams, and that in so doing, the purpose was to acquire a right
notion of those eternally classic heights of the ancient world.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Sicily-Palermo.]

And, indeed, my gains from this stream were large enough: I carried
away nearly forty specimens, which, however, may be comprised under
a few classes. Most of these were of a species of rock, which, in
one respect, might be regarded as a sort of jasper or hornblende; in
another, looked like clay-slate. I found some pebbles rounded, others
of a rhomboidal shape, others of irregular forms, and of various
colours. Moreover, many varieties of the primeval limestone, not a few
specimens of breccia, of which the substratum was lime, and holding
jasper, or modifications of limestone. Rubbles of muschelkalk also were
not wanting.

       *       *       *       *       *

The horses here are fed on barley, chaff, (_hackerling_) and clover. In
spring they give them the green barley, in order to refresh them--_per
rinfrescar_ is the phrase. As there are no meadows here, they have no
hay. On the hill-sides there are some pasture-lands, and also in the
corn-fields, as a third is always left fallow. They keep but few sheep,
and these are of a breed from Barbary. On the whole they have more
mules than horses, because the hot food suits the former better than
the latter.

       *       *       *       *       *

The plain on which Palermo lies, as well as the districts of Ai Colli,
which lie without the city, and a part also of Baggaria, have for their
basis the muschelkalk, of which the city is built. There are, for this
purpose, extensive quarries of it in the neighbourhood. In one place,
near Monte Pellegrino, they are more than fifty feet deep, The lower
layers are of a whiter hue. In it are found many petrified corals and
other shell-fish, but principally great scallops. The upper stratum is
mixed with red marl, and contains but few, if any, fossils. Right above
it lies the red marl, of which, however, the layer is not very stiff.

Monte Pellegrino, however, rises out of all this; it is a primary
limestone, has many hollows and fissures, which, although very
irregular, when closely observed are found to follow the order of the
strata. The stone is close, and rings when struck.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Palermo, Thursday, April_ 5, 1787.

We have gone carefully through, the city. The style of architecture
resembles for the most part that of Naples; but the public buildings,
for instance the fountains, are still further removed from good taste.
Here there is no artistic mind to regulate the public works; the
edifices owe both their shape and existence to chance accidents. A
fountain, which is the admiration of the whole island, would, perhaps,
never have existed, had not Sicily furnished a beautiful variegated
marble, and had not a sculptor, well practised in animal shapes
happened to be in favour precisely at the time. It would be a difficult
matter to describe this fountain. In a moderately-sized site stands
a round piece of masonry, not quite a staff high (_Stock hoch_). The
socle, the wall, and the cornice are of variegated marble. In the wall
are several niches in a row, from which animals of all kinds in white
marble, are looking with stretched-out necks. Horses, lions, camels,
and elephants, are interchanged one with another; and one scarcely
expects to find, within the circle of this menagerie, a fountain, to
which, through four openings, marble steps lead you down to draw from
the water, which flows in rich abundance.

The same nearly may be said of the churches, in which even the Jesuits'
love of show and finery is surpassed--but not from design or plan, but
by accident--just as artist after artist, whether sculptor or carver,
gilder, lackerer, or worker in marble chose, without taste or rule, to
display on each vacant spot his own abilities.

Amidst all this, however, one cannot fail to recognize a certain talent
in imitating natural objects; for instance, the heads of the animals
around the fountains are very well executed. By this means it is, in
truth, that the admiration of the multitude is excited, whose artistic
gratification consists chiefly in comparing the imitation with its
living prototype.

Towards evening I made a merry acquaintance, as I entered the house of
a small dealer in the Long Street, in order to purchase some trifles.
As I stood before the window to look at the wares, a slight breeze
arose, which eddying along the whole, street, at last distributed
through all the windows and doors the immense cloud of dust which
it had raised. "By all the saints," I cried, "whence comes till the
dust of your town--is there no helping it? In its length and beauty,
this street vies with any in the Corso in Rome. On both sides a fine
pavement, which each stall and shop-holder keeps clean by interminable
sweeping, but brushes everything into the middle of the street, which
is, in consequence, so much the dirtier, and with every breath of wind
sends back to you the filth which has just before been swept into the
roadway. In Naples busy donkeys carry off day by day the rubbish to the
gardens and farms. Why should you not here contrive and establish some
similar regulation?"

[Sidenote: Sicily--Palermo.]

"Things with us are as they are," he replied; "we throw everything out
of the house, and it rots before the door; you see here horse-dung and
filth of all kinds--it lies there and dries, and returns to us again in
the shape of dust. Against it we are taking precautions all day long.
But look, our pretty little and ever-busy brooms, worn out at last,
only go to increase the heap of filth before our doors."

And oddly enough it was actually so. They had nothing but very little
besoms of palm-branches, which, slightly altered, might have been
really useful; but as it was, they broke off easily, and the stumps
were lying by thousands in the streets. To my repeated questioning,
whether there was no board or regulations to prevent all this; he
replied, "A story is current among the people that those whose duty it
was to provide for the cleansing of our streets, being men of great
power and influence, could not be compelled to disburse the money on
its lawful objects; and besides that there was also the strange fact
that certain parties feared that if the dirty straw and dung were swept
away, every one would see how badly the pavement beneath was laid
down." And so the dishonesty of a second body would be thereby exposed.
"All this, however," he remarked, with a most humorous expression, "is
merely the interpretation which the ill-disposed put upon it." For his
part, he was of the opinion of those who maintained that the nobles
preserved this soft litter for their carriages, in order that, when
they take their drive for amusement in the evening, they might ride at
ease over the elastic ground. And as the man was now in the humour, he
joked away at many of the abuses of the police,--a consolatory proof to
me that man has always humour enough to make merry with what he cannot
help.

S. Rosalia, the patron saint of Palermo, is so universally known, from
the description which Brydone has given of her festival, that it must
assuredly be agreeable to my friends to read some account of the place
and the spot where she is most particularly worshipped.

Monte Pellegrino, a vast mass of rocks, of which the breadth is
greater than the height, lies on the north-west extremity of the Bay
of Palermo. Its beautiful form admits not of being described by words;
a most excellent view of it may be seen in the _Voyage Pittoresque de
la Sicile._ It consists of a gray limestone of the earlier epoch. The
rocks are quite barren, not a tree nor a bush will grow on them; even
the more smooth and level portions are but barely covered with grasses
or mosses.

In a cavern of this mountain, the bones of the saint were discovered,
at the beginning of the last century, and brought to Palermo. The
presence of them delivered the city from a pestilence, and ever since
S. Rosalia has been the Patron Saint of the people. Chapels have been
built in her honour, splendid festivals have been instituted.

The pious and devout frequently made pilgrimages to the mountain; and
in consequence a road has been made to it, which, like an ancient
aqueduct, rests on arches and columns, and ascends zigzag between the
rocks.

The place of worship is far more suitable to the humility of the saint
who retired thither, than are the splendid festivities which have
been instituted in honour of her total renunciation of the world. And
perhaps the whole of Christendom, which now, for eighteen hundred
years, has based its riches, pomps, and festival amusements, on the
memory of its first founders and most zealous confessors, cannot point
out a holy spot which has been adorned and rendered venerable in so
eminent and delightful a way.

When you have ascended the mountain, you proceed to the corner of a
rock, over against which there rises a high wall of stone. On this the
Church and the monastery are very finely situated.

The exterior of the church has nothing promising or inviting; you open
its door without any high expectation, but on entering are ravished
with wonder. You find yourself in a vast vestibule, which extends to
the whole breadth of the church, and is open towards the nave. You see
here the usual vessel of holy water and some confessionals. The nave is
an open space, which on the right is bounded by the native rock, and on
the left by the continuation of the vestibule. It is paved with flat
stones on a slight inclination, in order that the rain water may run
off. A small well stands nearly in the centre.

[Sidenote: Palermo--S. Rosalia.]

The cave itself has been transformed into the choir, without, however,
any of its rough natural shape being altered. Descending a few steps,
close upon them stands the choristers' desk with the choir books, and
on each side are the seats of the choristers. The whole is lighted by
the daylight, which is admitted from the court or nave. Deep within, in
the dark recesses of the cave, stands the high-altar.

As already stated, no change has been made in the cave; only, as the
rocks drop incessantly with water, it was necessary to keep the place
dry. This has been effected by means of tin tubes, which are fastened
to every projection of the rock, and are in various ways connected
together. As they are broad above and come to a narrow edge below, and
are painted of a dull green colour, they give to the rock an appearance
of being overgrown with a species of cactus. The water is conducted
into a clear reservoir, out of which it is taken by the faithful as a
remedy and preventative for every kind of ill.

As I was narrowly observing all this, an ecclesiastic came up to me and
asked whether I was a Genoese, and wished a mass or so to be said? I
replied upon this that I had come to Palermo with a Genoese, who would
to-morrow, as it was a festival, come up to the shrine; but, as one
of us must always be at home, I had come up to day in order to look
about me. Upon this he observed, I was at perfect liberty to look at
everything at my leisure, and to perform my devotions. In particular he
pointed out to me a little altar which stood on the left as especially
holy, and then left me.

Through the openings of a large trellis work of lattice, lamps appeared
burning before an altar. I knelt down close to the gratings and peeped
through. Further in, however, another lattice of brass wire was drawn
across, so that one looked as it were through gauze at the objects
within. By the light of some dull lamps I caught sight of a lovely
female form.

She lay seemingly in a state of ecstasy--the eyes half-closed, the
head leaning carelessly on her right hand, which was adorned with many
rings. I could not sufficiently discern her face, but it seemed to be
peculiarly charming. Her robe was made of gilded metal, which imitated
excellently a texture wrought with gold. The head and hands were of
white marble. I cannot say that the whole was in the lofty style, still
it was executed so naturally and so pleasingly that one almost fancied
it must breathe and move. A little angel stands near her, and with a
bunch of lilies in his hand appears to be fanning her.

In the meanwhile the clergy had come into the cave, taken their places,
and began to chant the Vespers.

I took my seat right before the altar, and listened to them for a
while; then I again approached the altar, knelt down and attempted to
obtain a still more distinct view of the beautiful image. I resigned
myself without reserve to the charming illusion of the statue and the
locality.

The chant of the priests now resounded through the cave; the water was
trickling into the reservoir near the altar; while the over-hanging
rocks of the vestibule--the proper nave of the church--shut in the
scene. There was a deep stillness in this waste spot, whose inhabitants
seemed to be all dead-a singular neatness in a wild cave: the
tinsel and tawdry pomp of the Roman Catholic ceremonial, especially
as it is vividly decked out in Sicily, had here reverted to its
original simplicity. The illusion produced by the statue of the fair
sleeper--which had a charm even for the most practised eye:--enough, it
was with the greatest difficulty that I tore myself from the spot, and
it was late at night before I got back to Palermo.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Palermo, Saturday, April_ 7, 1787.

In the public gardens, which are close to the roadstead, I have passed
some most delightful hours. It is the most wonderful place in the
world. Regularly laid out by art, it still looks a fairy spot; planted
but a short time ago, it yet transports you into ancient times. Green
edgings surround beds of the choicest exotics; citron-espaliers arch
over low-arboured walks; high walls of the oleander, decked with
thousands of its red carnation-like blossoms, dazzle the eye. Trees
wholly strange and unknown to me, as yet without leaf, and probably,
therefore, natives of a still warmer climate, spread out their strange
looking branches. A raised seat at the end of the level space gives you
a survey of these curiously mixed rarities, and leads the eye at last
to great basins in which gold and silver fish swim about with their
pretty movements; now hiding themselves beneath moss-covered reeds;
now darting in troops to catch the bit of bread which has tempted them
from their hiding place. All the plants exhibit tints of green which
I am not used to; yellower and bluer than are found with us. What
however lent to every object the rarest of charms was a strong halo
which hung around everything alike, and produced the following singular
effect: objects which were only distant a few steps from others, were
distinguished from them by a decided tint of light blue, so that at
last the distinctive colours of the most remote were almost merged in
it, or at least assumed to the eye a decidedly strong blue tint.

[Sidenote: Sicily--Palermo.]

The very singular effect which such a halo imparts to distinct
objects, vessels, and headlands, is remarkable enough to an artistic
eye; it assists it accurately to distinguish, and, indeed, to measure
distances. It makes, too, a walk on the heights extremely charming.
One sees Nature no more; nothing but pictures; just as if a painter of
exquisite taste had arranged them in a gallery.

But these wonderful gardens have made a deep and lasting impression on
my mind. The black waves on the northern horizon, as they broke on the
irregular points of the bay--and even the smell of the sea-all seemed
to recall to my imagination, as well as my memory, the happy island
of the Phæacians. I hastened to purchase a _Homer_, and began to read
this book with the highest delight, making an impromptu translation
of it for the benefit of Kniep, who had well deserved by his diligent
exertions this day some agreeable refreshment over a glass of wine.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Palermo, April_ 8, 1787. (_Easter Day._)

The morning rejoicings in the blissful Resurrection of the Lord
commenced with break of day. Crackers, wild-fires, rockets, serpents,
&c., were let off by wholesale in front of the churches, as the
worshippers crowded in at the open doors. The chiming of bells, the
pealing of organs, the chanting of processions, and of the choirs of
priests who came to meet them, were enough to stun the ears of all who
had not been used to such noisy worship.

The early mass was scarcely ended, when two well-dressed couriers of
the Viceroy visited our hotel, with the double object of offering
to all strangers his Highness's congratulations on the festival,
and to exact a douceur in return. As I was specially honoured with
an invitation to dinner, my gift was, of course, expected to be
considerable.

After spending the morning in visiting the different churches, I
proceeded to the Viceroy's palace, which is situated at the upper end
of the city. As I arrived rather early, I found the grand saloon still
empty; there was only a little lively man, who came up to me, and whom
I soon discovered to be a Maltese.

When he had learnt that I was a German, he asked if I could give him
any account of Erfurt, where he had spent a very pleasant time on a
short visit.

As he asked me about the family of the Däckerödes, and about the
Coadjutor von Dalberg, I was able to give some account of them, at
which he seemed much delighted, and inquired after other people of
Thuringia. With considerable interest he then inquired about Weimar.
"And how," he asked, "is the person, who, full of youth and vivacity
when I was there, was the life of society? I have forgotten his name,
but he is the author of 'Werther.'"

After a little pause, as if for the sake of tasking my memory, I
answered, "I am the person whom you are inquiring about." With the most
visible signs of astonishment, he sprung back, exclaiming, "There must
have been a great change then!" "O yes," I rejoined, "between Palermo
and Weimar I have gone through many a change."

At this moment the Viceroy and suite entered the apartment. His
carriage evinced that graceful freedom which became so distinguished
a personage. He could not refrain from laughing at the Maltese, as he
went on expressing his astonishment to see me here. At table I sat by
the side of the Viceroy, who inquired into the objects of my journey,
and assured me that he would give orders that everything in. Palermo
should be open to my inspection, and that every possible facility
should be given me during my tour through Sicily.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Sicily--Palermo.]

_Palermo, Monday, April_ 9, 1787.

This whole day has been taken up with the stupidities of the Prince
Pallagonia, whose follies are thoroughly different from what one
would form an idea of either by reading or hearing of them. For, with
the slightest love of truth, he who wishes to furnish an account of
the absurd, gets into a dilemma; he is anxious to give an idea of
it, and so makes it something, whereas, in reality, it is a nothing
which seeks to pass for something. And here I must premise another
general reflection, viz., that neither the most tasteless, nor the
most excellent production comes entirely and immediately from a single
individual or a single age, but that with a little attention any one
may trace its pedigree and descent.

The fountain already described in Palermo belongs to the forefathers
of the Pallagonian follies, only that the latter, in their own soil
and domain, develope themselves with the greatest freedom, and on the
largest scale.

When in these parts a country seat is built, it is usually placed in
the middle of a whole property, and therefore, in order to reach the
princely mansion you have to pass through cultivated fields, kitchen
gardens, and similar rural conveniences, for these southerns show far
more of economy than we northmen, who often waste a good strip of rich
land on a park, which, with its barren shrubs, can only charm the eye.
But here it is the fashion to build two walls, between which you pass
to the castle, without knowing in the least what is doing on your
right and left. This passage begins generally with a grand portico,
and sometimes with a vaulted hall, and ends with the mansion itself.
But, in order that the eye may not be entirely without relief between
these bye walls, they are generally arched over, and ornamented with
scrolls, and also with pedestals, on which, here and there, a vase is
placed. The flat surfaces are plastered, divided into compartments,
and painted. The court is formed by a circle of one-storied cabins, in
which work-people of all sorts reside, while the quadrangular castle
towers over all.

This is the sort of building which is here traditionally adopted, and
which probably was the old form, when the father of the present prince
rebuilt the castle, not in the best, but still in tolerable taste.
But the present possessor, without abandoning the general features of
this style, gave free course to his humour and passion for the most
ill-shapen and tasteless of erections. One would do him too much honour
by giving him credit for even one spark of taste.

We entered, therefore, the great hall, which stands at the beginning of
the property, and found ourselves in an octagonal loom, of a breadth
altogether disproportioned to its height. Four vast giants with modern
spatterdashes, which had just been _buttoned_ on, support the cornice,
on which, directly meeting the eye as you enter, is a representation of
the Holy Trinity.

The passage to the castle is broader than usual, the wall being
converted into one continuous high socle; from which basement the
strangest groups possible reach to the top, while in the spaces between
them several vases are placed. The ugliness of these unshapely figures,
(the bungling work of the most ordinary mason,) is increased by their
having been cut out of a very crumbly muscheltufa, although, perhaps,
a better material would have made the badness of the form still more
striking to the eye. I used the word "groups" a moment ago, but I
have employed a false term, and most inappropriate one for anything
here. For they are mere juxtapositions, determined by no thought, but
by mere arbitrary caprice. In each case three form the ornament of a
square pedestal, their bases being so arranged as to fill up the space
by their various postures. The principal groups have generally two
figures which occupy the chief face of the pedestal, and then two are
yet wanting to fill up the back part of the pedestal; one of a moderate
size generally represents a shepherd or shepherdess--a cavalier or a
lady--a dancing ape or a hound. Still there is a vacant spot on the
pedestal; this is generally held by a dwarf--as, indeed, in dull jokes,
this sort of gentry usually play a conspicuous part.

That we may not omit any of the elements of Prince Pallagonia's folly,
we give you the accompanying catalogue. Men: Beggars, male and female,
Spanish men and women, Moors, Turks, hunchbacks, cripples of all sorts,
strolling musicians, pulcinellos, soldiers in ancient uniforms, gods,
goddesses, gentlemen in old French costumes, soldiers with cartouche
boxes and gaiters, mythological personages (with most ridiculous
companions, Achilles and Charon, for instance, with Punch). Animals
(merely parts of them): Heads of horses on human bodies, misshapen
apes, lots of dragons and serpents, all sorts of feet under figures of
all kinds, double-headed monsters, and creatures with heads that do not
belong to them. Vases: All sorts of monsters and scrolls, which below
end in the hollows and bases of vases.

[Sidenote: Palermo--Castle of Count Pallagonia.]

Just let any one think of such figures furnished by wholesale, produced
without thought or sense, and arranged without choice or purpose--only
let him conceive to himself this socle, these pedestals and unshapely
objects in an endless series, and he will be able to sympathize with
the disagreeable feelings which must seize every one whose miserable
fate condemns him to run the gauntlet of such absurdities.

We now approach the castle, and are received into a semi-circular
fore-court. The chief wall before us, through which is the
entrance-door, is in the castle style. Here we find an Egyptian figure,
built into the wall, a fountain without water, a monument, vases stuck
around in no sort of order, statues designedly laid on their noses.
Next we came to the castle court, and found the usual round area,
enclosed with little cottages, distorted into small semicircles, in
order, forsooth, that there might be no want of variety.

The ground is, for the most part, overgrown with grass. Here, as in
the neighbourhood of a church in ruins, are marble urns with strange
scrolls and foliations, collected by his father; dwarfs and other
abortions of the later epoch, for which, as yet fitting places have
not been found; one even comes upon an arbour, propped up with ancient
vases, and stone scrolls of various shapes.

The absurdities produced by such want of judgment and taste, however,
are strikingly instanced by the fact, that the window sills in these
cottages are, without exception, oblique, and lean to one side or
the other, so as to offend and violate all sense of the level and
perpendicular, which are so indispensable in the human mind, and form
the foundation of all architectural propriety. And then, again, the
edges of all the roofs are embellished with hydras and little busts,
with choirs of monkeys playing music, and similar conceits. Dragons
alternate with deities: an Atlas, who sustains not the mundane sphere,
but an empty wine-barrel!

One hopes to escape from all this by entering the castle, which,
having been built by the father, presents relatively a more rational
appearance when viewed from the exterior. But in vain, for at no great
distance from the door, one stumbles upon the laurel-crowned head of
a Roman emperor on the body of a dwarf, who is sitting astride on a
dolphin.

Now, in the castle itself, of which the exterior gives hope of, at
least, a tolerable interior, the madness of the Prince begins again
to rave. Many of the seats have lost their legs, so that no one can
sit upon them; and if some appear to promise a resting-place, the
Chamberlain warns you against them, as having sharp prickles beneath
their satin-covered cushions. In all the corners are candelabras of
porcelain china, which, on a nearer view, you discover to be cemented
together out of different bowls, cups, saucers, &c., &c. Not a corner
but some whim peeps out of it. Even the unequalled prospect over the
promontory into the sea is spoiled by coloured glass, which, by its
false lights, gives either a cold or a fiery tint to the neighbouring
scenes. I must, also, mention a cabinet, which is inlaid with old
gold frames, cut in pieces. All the hundred-fold carvings, all the
endless varieties of ancient and modern, more or less dust-stained and
time-injured, gilding, closely huddled together, cover all the walls,
and give you the idea of a miniature lumber-room.

To describe the chapel alone, would require a volume. Here one finds
the solution of the whole folly, which could never have reached such
a pitch in any but a bigoted mind. How many monstrous creations of a
false and misled devotion are here to be found, I must leave you to
guess for yourself. However, I cannot refrain from mentioning the most
outrageous: a carved crucifix is fastened flat to the roof, painted
after nature, lackered, and gilded; into the navel of the figure,
attached to the cross, a hook is screwed, and from the latter hangs
a chain, which is fastened to the head of a man who, in a kneeling
and praying posture, is suspended in the air, and, like all the other
figures in the church, is painted and lackered. In all probability it
is intended to serve as a type of the owner's unceasing devotion.

Moreover, the house is not finished internally. A saloon, built
by the father, and intended to be decorated with rich and varied
ornaments, but not tricked out in a false and offensive taste, is still
incomplete: so that, it would seem, even the boundless madness of the
possessor is at a stand still.

Kniep's artistic feeling was almost driven to desperation in this
mad-house; and, for the first time in my life, I found him quite
impatient. He hurried me away, when I wished to take a note of, and
to perpetuate the memory of these monstrous absurdities, one by one.
Good-naturedly enough, he at last took a sketch of one of these
compositions, which did, at least, form a kind of group. It represents
a woman with a horse's head, sitting on a stool, and playing at cards,
with a cavalier, dressed, as to his lower extremities, in the old
fashion, while his gray head is ornamented with a large wig and a
crown. The statue reminded me of the arms of the house of Pallagonia,-a
satyr, holding up a mirror _before_ a woman with a horse's head, which,
even after all the strange follies of its present head, seems to me
highly singular.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Palermo, Tuesday, April_ 10, 1787.

To-day we took a drive up the mountains to Monreale,--along a glorious
road, which was laid down by an abbot of this cloister, in the times
of its opulence and wealth: broad, of easy ascent, trees here and
there, springs, and dripping wells, decked out with ornaments and
scrolls,--somewhat Pallagonian in style--but still, in spite of all
that, refreshing to both man and beast.

The monastery of S. Martin, which lies on the height, is a respectable
building. One bachelor alone, as we see in the case of Prince
Pallagonia, has seldom produced any thing rational; but several
together, on the other hand, have effected the greatest works, such
as churches and monasteries. But perhaps these spiritual fraternities
produced so much, simply because, beyond most fathers of a family, they
could reckon with certainty on a numerous posterity.

The monks readily permitted us to view their collection of antiques and
natural objects. They contained many excellent specimens of both. Our
attention was particularly fixed by a medallion, with the _figure_ of
a young goddess, which must excite the rapture of every beholder. The
good monks would willingly have given us a copy, but there was nothing
within reach which would do to make a mould.

After they had exhibited to us all their treasures,--not without
entering on an unfavorable comparison of their present with their
former condition,--they led us into a small but pleasant saloon, from
the balcony of which one enjoyed a lovely prospect. Here covers were
laid for us alone, and we had a very excellent dinner to ourselves.
When the dessert was served, the abbot and the senior monks entered,
and took their seats. They remained nearly half an hour, during which
time we had to answer many questions. We took a most friendly farewell
of them; the younger brethren accompanied us once more to the rooms
where the collections were kept, and at last to our carriage.

We drove home with very different feelings from what we did yesterday.
To-day we had to regret a noble institution, which was falling with
time; while, on the other hand, a most tasteless undertaking had a
constant supply of wealth for its support.

The road to S. Martin ascends a hill of the earlier lime-stone
formation. The rock is quarried and broken, and burnt into lime,
which is very white. For burning the stone they make use of a long
coarse sort of grass, which is dried in bundles. Here too it is
that the calorex is produced. Even on the most precipitous heights
lies a red clay of alluvial origin, which serve the purposes of our
dam-earth,--the higher it lies the redder it is, and is but little
blackened by vegetation. I saw, at a distance, a ravine, where it was
red as cinnabar.

The monastery stands in the middle of the limestone hill, which is very
rich in springs.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Palermo, Wednesday, April_ 11, 1787.

Having explored the two principal objects without the city, we betook
ourselves to the palace, where a busy courier showed us the rooms, and
their contents. To our great horror, the saloon in which the antiques
are generally placed was in the greatest disorder, in consequence of
the walls being under the process of decoration. The statues were
removed from their usual places, covered with cloth, and protected
by wooden frames; so that in spite of the good will of our guide, and
some trouble on the part of the work-people, we could only gain a very
imperfect idea of them. My attention was chiefly occupied with two
rams, in bronze, which, not-withstanding the unfavorable circumstances,
highly delighted our artistic taste. They are represented in a
recumbent posture, with one foot stretched out before them, with the
heads (in order to form a pair) turned on different sides. Powerful
forms, belonging to the mythological family, and well worthy to carry
Phrixus and Helle. The wool, not short and crisp, but long and flowing,
with a slight wave, and shape most true to nature, and extremely
elegant--they evidently belonged to the best period of Grecian art.
They are said to have stood originally in the harbour of Syracuse.

[Sidenote: Sicily--Palermo.]

The courier now took us out of the city to the catacombs, which,
laid out on a regular architectural plan, are anything but quarries
converted into burial places. In a rock of Tufa, of tolerable hardness,
the side of winch has been worked level and perpendicular, vaulted
openings have been cut, and in these again are hewn several tiers of
sarcophagi, one above the other--all of the natural material without
masonry of any kind. The upper tiers are smaller, and in the spaces
over the pillars are tombs for children.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Palermo, Thursday, April_ 12.

To day we have been shown Prince Torremuzza's cabinet of medals.
I went there in a certain degree against my will. I am too little
versed in these matters, and a mere curiosity-mongering traveller is
thoroughly detested by all true connoisseurs and scholars. But as one
must in every case make a beginning, I made myself easy on this head,
and have derived both gratification and profit from my visit. What a
satisfaction, even cursorily, to glance at the fact that the old world
was thickly sown with cities; the very meanest of which has bequeathed
to us in its precious coins, if not a complete series, yet at least
some epochs, of its history of art. Out of these cabinets, there smiles
upon us an eternal spring of the blossoms and flowers of art--of a busy
life, ennobled with high tastes, and of much more besides. Out of these
form-endowed pieces of metal the glory of the Sicilian cities, now
obscured, still shines forth fresh before us.

Unfortunately, we in our youth had seen none but family coins, which
say nothing, and the coins of the Cæsars, which repeat to satiety the
same profile--portraits of rulers, who are to be regarded as any thing
but models of humanity. How sadly had our youth been confined to a
shapeless Palestine, and to a shape perplexing Rome! Sicily and Nova
Grecia give me hopes again of a fresh existence.

That on these subjects I should enter into general reflections, is a
proof that as yet I do not understand much about them: yet that, with
all the rest, will in degrees be improved.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Palermo, Thursday, April_ 12, 1787.

Yesterday evening, a wish of mine was gratified, and that in a very
singular fashion. I was standing on the pavement of the principal
street, joking at the window with the shop-keeper, I formerly
mentioned, when suddenly, a courier, tall and well-dressed, came up to
me, and quickly poked a silver salver before me, on which were several
copper coins, and a few pieces of silver. As I could not make out what
it all meant, I shook my head, and shrugged my shoulders, the usual
token by which in this country you get rid of those whose address or
question you either cannot, or do not wish, to understand.

"What does all this mean?" I asked of my friend the shop-keeper, who,
with a very significant mien, and somewhat stealthily, pointed to a
lank and haggard gentleman, who, elegantly dressed, was walking with
great dignity and indifference, through the dung and dirt. Frizzled
and powdered, with his hat under his arm, in a silken vest, with his
sword by his side, and having a neat shoe ornamented with a jewelled
buckle--the old man walked on calmly and sorrowfully. All eyes were
directed towards him.

"It is the Prince Pallagonia," said the dealer, "who, from time to
time, goes through the city collecting money to ransom the slaves in
Barbary. It is true, he does not get much by his collection, but the
object is kept in memory; and so it often happens that those who, in
their life-time, were backward in giving, leave large legacies at their
death. The prince has for many years been at the head of this society,
and has done a great deal of good."

"Instead of wasting so much on the follies of his country house," I
cried, "he might have spent the same large sum on this object. Then no
prince in the world would have accomplished more."

To this the shopkeeper rejoined: "But is not that the way with us all?
We are ready enough to pay for our own follies. Our virtues for their
support must look to the purses of others."

       *       *       *       *       *

_Palermo, April_ 13, 1787.

Count Borck has very diligently worked before us in the mineralogy of
Sicily, and whoever of the same mind visits the island after him, must
willingly acknowledge his obligations to him. I feel it a pleasure, no
less than a duty, to celebrate the memory of my predecessor. And what
am I more than a forerunner of others yet to be, both in my travels and
life.

However, the industry of the Count seems to me to have been greater
than his knowledge. He appears to have gone to work with a certain
reserve, which is altogether opposed to that stern earnestness with
which grand objects should be treated.

[Sidenote: Sicily--Palermo.]

Nevertheless, his essay in quarto, which is exclusively devoted to the
mineralogy of Sicily, has been of great use to me; and, prepared by
it, I was able to profit by my visit to the Quarries which formerly,
when it was the custom to case the churches and altars with marble and
agate, were more busily worked, though even now they are not idle. I
purchased at them specimens of the hard and soft stones: for it is thus
that they usually designate the marble and agate, chiefly because a
difference of price mainly depends on this difference of quality. But,
besides these, they have still another for a material which is the
produce of the fire of their kilns. In these, after each burning, they
find a sort of glassy flux, which in colour varies from the lightest
to the darkest, and even blackest blue. These lumps are, like other
stones, cut into thin lamina, and then pierced according to the height
of their colour and their purity, and are successfully employed in
the place of lapis lazuli, in the decoration of churches, altars, and
sepulchral monuments.

A complete collection, such as I wished, is not to be had at present;
it is to be sent after me to Naples. The agates are of the greatest
beauty; especially such as are variegated with irregular pieces of
yellow or red jasper, and with white, and as it were frozen quartz,
which produce the most beautiful effect.

A very accurate imitation of these agates, produced by lake colouring
on the back of thin plates of glass, is the only rational thing that I
observed the other day among the Pallagonian follies. Such imitations
are far better for decorations than the real agate, since the latter
are only found in very small pieces, whereas the size of the former
depends on nothing but the size of the artist's plate. This contrivance
of art well deserves to be imitated.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Palermo, April_ 13, 1787.

Italy without Sicily leaves no image on the soul: here is the key to
all.

Of the climate, it is impossible to say enough. It is now rainy
weather, but not uninterruptedly wet: yesterday it thundered and
lightened, and to day all is intensely green. The flax has in places
already put forth joints--in others it is boiling. Looking down from
the hills, one fancies one sees in the plain below little ponds; so
beautifully blue-green are the flax fields here and there. Living
objects without number surround you. And my companion is an excellent
fellow, the true _Hoffegut_ (Hopeful) and I honestly sustain the part
of the _True friend._ He has already made some beautiful sketches, and
will take still more before we go. What a prospect--to return home some
day, happy, and with all these treasures!

Of the meat and drink here, in the country, I have said nothing as yet;
however, it is by no means an indifferent matter. The garden stuffs are
excellent, especially the lettuce; which is particularly tender, with
a milky taste: it makes one understand at once why the ancients termed
it _lactuca._ The oil and wine of all kinds very good; and it might be
still better if more care were bestowed on its preparation:--Fish of
the very best and tenderest. We have had, too, very good beef, though
generally people do not praise it.

Now, after dinner, to the window!--to the streets! A malefactor has
just been pardoned--an event which takes place every year in honour of
the festival of Easter. The brethren of some order or other led him to
the foot of a gallows, which had been erected for sake of the ceremony:
then the criminal at the foot of the ladder offers up a prayer or
two; and having kissed the scaffold, is led away again. He was a
good-looking fellow of the middle age, in a white coat, white hat, and
all else white. He carried his hat in his hand; at different points
they attached variegated ribbons to him, so that at last he was quite
in tune to go to any masquerade in the character of a shepherd.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Palermo, April_ 13 _and_ 14, 1787.

So then, before my departure, I was to meet with a strange adventure,
of which I must forthwith give you a circumstantial account.

[Sidenote: Sicily--Palermo.]

The whole time of my residence here, I have heard scarcely any topic
of conversation at the ordinary, but Cagliostro, his origin and
adventures. The people of Palermo are all unanimous in asserting that
a certain Joseph Balsamo was born in their city, and having rendered
himself infamous by many disgraceful acts, was banished. But whether
this person is identical with the Count Cagliostro, was a point on
which opinions were divided. Some who knew Balsamo personally asserted
they recognized his features in the engraving, which is well known in
Germany, and which has also travelled as far as Palermo.

In one of these conversations, one of the guests referred to the
trouble which a Palermitan lawyer had taken in examining this matter.
He seems to have been commissioned by the French Ministry to trace the
origin of an individual, who, in the face of France, and, indeed, of
the whole world, had had the temerity to utter the silliest of idle
tales in the midst of a legal process which involved the most important
interests and the reputation of the highest personages.

This lawyer, it was asserted, had prepared the pedigree of Giuseppe
Balsamo, together with an explanatory memoir and documentary proofs. It
has been forwarded to France, where in all probability public use will
be made of it.

As I expressed a wish to form the acquaintance of this lawyer, of whom
besides people spoke very highly, the person who had recounted these
facts offered to mention me to him and to introduce me.

After a few days we paid him a visit, and found him busily engaged with
his clients. When he had dismissed them and we had taken a luncheon,
he produced a manuscript which contained a transcript of Cagliostro's
pedigree, and the rough draught of the memoir which had been sent to
France.

He laid the genealogy before me, and gave me the necessary
explanations, of which I shall here give you as much as is necessary to
facilitate the understanding of the whole business.

Giuseppe Balsamo's great-grandfather on his mother's side was Matteo
Martello. The maiden name of his great-grand-mother is unknown. The
issue of this marriage was two daughters; Maria, who married Giuseppe
Bracconerie, and the grandmother of Giuseppe Balsamo--and Vincenza,
married to Giuseppe Cagliostro, who was born in a little village called
La Noava, about eight miles from Messina. (I must note here that there
are at this moment living at Messina two bellfounders of this name.)
This great aunt was subsequently godmother of Giuseppe Balsamo, who was
named after his great uncle, and at last in foreign countries assumed
also the surname of this relation.

The Bracconerie had three children,--Felicitá, Mattéo, and Antonia.

Felicitá was married to Piedro Balsamo, who was the son of Antonia
Balsamo, ribbon dealer in Palermo, and probably of Jewish descent.
Piedro Balsamo, the father of the notorious Giuseppe, became bankrupt,
and died in his five-and-fortieth year. His widow, who is still living,
had born him, besides the above-named Giuseppe Giovanna--Giuseppe
Maria, who married Giovanna Battista Capitummino, who begot three
children of her body, and died.

The memoir, which was read to us by its obliging author, and was at
my request lent to me for a few days, was founded on baptismal and
marriage certificates and other instruments which he had with great
diligence collected. It contains pretty nearly (as I conclude from a
comparison with a summary which I then made) all the circumstances
which have lately been made better known to the world by the acts of
the legal process at Borne, viz., that Giuseppe Balsamo was born at
Palermo, in the beginning of June, 1743, and that at his baptism he
was received back from the priest's arms by Vincenza Cagliostro (whose
maiden name was Martello); that in his youth he took the habit of an
order of the Brothers of Mercy, which paid particular attention to
the sick; that he soon showed great talent and skill for medicine,
but that for his disorderly practices he was expelled the order, and
thereupon set up in Palermo as a dealer in magic, and treasure finder.

[Sidenote: Palermo--Count Cagliostro.]

His great dexterity in imitating every kind of handwriting was not
allowed by him to lie idle. He falsified or rather forged altogether
an ancient document, by which the possession of some lands was brought
into litigation. He was soon an object of suspicion, and cast into
prison; but made his escape, and was cited to appear under penalty of
outlawry. He passed through Calabria towards Rome, where he married the
daughter of a belt-maker. From Rome he came back to Naples, under the
name of the Marchese Pellegrini. He even ventured to pay a visit to
Palermo, was recognized, and taken prisoner, and made his escape in a
manner that well deserves being circumstantially detailed.

One of the principal nobles of Sicily, who possessed very large
property, and held several important posts at the Neapolitan court,
had a son, who to a frame of unusual strength and an uncontrollable
temper united all the wanton excesses which the rich and great, without
education, can think themselves privileged to indulge in.

Donna Lorenza had managed to attract him, and on him the pretended
Marchese Pellegrini relied for impunity. The Prince avowed openly
his patronage of this couple of new comers, and set no bounds to his
rage when Giuseppe Balsamo, at the instance of the party whom he had
injured, was a second time cast into prison. He had recourse to various
means to obtain his liberation; and, when these were unsuccessful, in
the very ante-room of the President's court, he threatened the advocate
of the opposite party with the most dreadful consequences if he did not
consent to the release of Balsamo. As the opposing advocate refused his
consent, he rushed upon him, struck him, knocked him down and kicked
him, and was only with difficulty restrained from further violence when
the judge, hearing the noise, rushed in and commanded peace.

The latter, a weak and cringing character, had not the courage to
punish the wrong-doer; the opposite party, advocate and all, were men
of little minds; and so Balsamo was set at liberty, without, however,
any record of his liberation being found among the proceedings--neither
by whose orders or in what manner it was effected.

Shortly after this he left Palermo, and traveled in different
countries; of which travels, however, the author of the memoir had been
only able to collect very imperfect information.

The memoir ended with an acute argument to prove the identity of
Balsamo and Cagliostro,--a position which was at this time more
difficult to prove than at present, now that the whole history of this
individual has been made public.

Had I not been led to form a conjecture that a public use would have
been made in France of this essay, and that on my return I should find
it already in print, I doubt not but I should have been permitted to
take a transcript of it, and to give my friends and the public an early
account of many interesting circumstances.

However, we have received the fullest account, (and even more
particulars than this memoir contains,) from a quarter which usually
is the source of nothing but errors. Who would have believed that Rome
would ever have done so much for the enlightening of the world, and for
the utter exposure of an impostor, as she has done by publishing the
summary of the proceedings in this case? For although this work ought
and might be much more interesting, it is nevertheless an excellent
document in the hands of every rational mind, who cannot but feel deep
regret to see the deceived, and those who were not more deceived than
deceivers, going on for years admiring this man and his mummeries;
feeling themselves by fellowship with him raised above the common mass,
and from the heights of their credulous vanity pitying if not despising
the sound common sense of mankind in general.

Who was not willingly silent all the while? And even now, at last, when
the whole affair is ended and placed beyond dispute, it is only with
difficulty that I can bring myself, in order to complete the official
account, to communicate some particulars which have here become known
to me.

When I found in the genealogy so many persons (especially his mother
and sisters) mentioned as still living, I expressed to the author of
the memoir a wish to see them, and to form the acquaintance of the
other relatives of so notorious an individual. He remarked that it
would be difficult to bring it about, since these persons, poor but
respectable, and living very retired, were not accustomed to receive
visitors, and that their natural suspicion would be roused by any
attempt of the kind. However, he was ready to send to me his copying
clerk, who had access to the family, and by whose means he had procured
the information and documents out of which the pedigree had been
compiled.

[Sidenote: Palermo--Count Cagliostro.]

The next day his amanuensis made his appearance, and expressed several
scruples upon the matter. "I have, hitherto," he said, "carefully
avoided coming within sight of these persons. For, in order to get into
my hands the certificates of baptism and marriage, so as to be able
to take legally authenticated copies of them, I was obliged to have
recourse to a little trick. I took occasion to speak of some little
family property that was somehow or other unclaimed; made it appear
probable to them that the young Capitummino was entitled to it; but I
told them that first of all it was necessary to make out a pedigree,
in order to see how far the youth could establish his claim: that,
however, his success must eventually depend upon law proceedings, which
I would willingly undertake on condition of receiving for my trouble
a fair proportion of the amount recovered. The good people readily
assented to everything. I got possession of the papers I wanted, took
copies of them, and finished the pedigree; since then, however, I have
cautiously kept out of their sight. A few weeks ago old Capitummino met
me, and it was only by pleading the tardiness with which such matters
usually proceed that I managed to excuse myself."

Thus spoke the copyist. As, however, I stuck to my purpose, after some
consideration he consented to take me to their house, and suggested
that it would be best for me to give myself out to be an Englishman,
who had brought to the family tidings of Cagliostro, who, immediately
after his release from the Bastille, had proceeded to London.

At the appointed hour--about two o'clock in the afternoon--we set out
on our expedition. The house was situated in the corner of a narrow
lane, not far from the great street, "Il Casaro." We ascended a few
wretched steps, and entered at once upon the kitchen. A woman of the
middle size, strong and broad, without being fat, was busy washing
up the cooking utensils. She was neatly and cleanly clad, and as we
entered, turned up the corner of her apron, in order to conceal from us
its dirty front. She seemed glad to see my guide, and exclaimed, "Do
you bring us good news, Signor Giovanni? Have you obtained a decree?"

He replied, "No! I have not as yet been able to do anything in our
matter. However, here is a foreigner who brings you a greeting from
your brother, and who can give you an account of his present state and
abode."

The greeting that I was to bring did not exactly stand in our bond.
However, the introduction was now made. "You know my brother?" she
asked me. "All Europe knows him," I replied, "and I am sure you will
be glad to hear that he is at present safe and well; for assuredly you
must have been in great anxiety about him." "Walk in," she said, "I
will follow you immediately;" and so, with the copying-clerk, I entered
the sitting-room.

It was spacious and lofty, and would pass with us for a saloon. It
seemed, however, to form the whole dwelling of the family. A single
window lighted the large walls, which were once coloured, and around
which figures of the Saints--taken in black--hung in gilt frames. Two
large beds, without curtains, stood against one wall, while a brown
press, which had the shape of an escritoire, was placed against the
opposite one. Old chairs, with rush bottoms, the backs of which seemed
once to have been gilded, stood on each side of it; while the bricks
of the floors were in many places sunk deep below the level. In other
respects, everything was clean and tidy, and we made our way towards
the family, who were gathered around the only large window at the other
end of the room.

While my guide was explaining to the old widow Balsamo, who sat in the
corner, the cause of our visit, and in consequence of the deafness of
the good old woman, had frequently to repeat his words, I had time
to observe the room and the rest of its occupants. A young girl, of
about sixteen years of age, well grown, whose features, however, the
small-pox had robbed of all expression, was standing at the window; by
her side a young man, whose unpleasant countenance, sadly disfigured by
the small-pox, also struck me. In an arm-chair, opposite the window,
sat, or rather reclined, a sick and sadly deformed person, who seemed
to be afflicted with a sort of torpor.

When my guide had made himself understood, they compelled us to sit
down. The old woman put some questions to me, which I required to have
interpreted before I could answer them, as I was not very familiar with
the Sicilian dialect.

[Sidenote: Palermo--Count Cagliostro.]

I was pleased with the examination, which, during this conversation, I
made of the old woman. She was of middle size, but of a good figure;
over her regular features an expression of calmness was diffused, which
people usually enjoy who are deprived of hearing; the tone of her voice
was soft and agreeable.

I answered her questions, and my answers had, in their turn, to be
interpreted to her.

The slowness of such a dialogue gave me an opportunity of weighing my
words. I told her that her son having been acquitted in France, was at
present in London, where he had been well received. The joy which she
expressed at this news was accompanied with exclamations of a heartfelt
piety, and now, as she spoke louder and slower I could understand her
better.

In the meanwhile her daughter had come in, and had seated herself by
the side of my guide, who faithfully repeated to her what I had been
saying. She had tied on a clean apron, and arranged her hair under a
net. The more I looked at her, and compared her with her mother, the
more surprised was I at the difference of their persons. A lively,
healthy sensibility spoke in every feature of the daughter; she was,
in all probability, about forty years old. With lovely blue eyes, she
looked cautiously around, without, however, my being able to trace the
least symptom of suspicion. As she sat, her figure seemed to promise
greater height than it showed when she stood up; her posture bespoke
determination; she sat with her body bent forwards, and her hands
resting on her knees. Moreover, her full, rather than sharp profile,
reminded me of the portraits of her brother, which I had seen in
engravings. She asked me several questions about my travels: about my
purpose in visiting Sicily, and would persuade herself that I should
most assuredly come back again, and keep with them the Festival of S.
Rosalie.

The grandmother having, in the mean time, put some questions to me,
while I was busied in answering them, the daughter was speaking in a
half whisper to my guide; so that my curiosity was stimulated to ask
what they were talking about. Upon this he said, Donna Capitummino was
just telling him that her brother owed her fourteen once. In order
to facilitate his rapid departure from Palermo, she had redeemed some
of his things which were in pawn; but since then she had not heard a
word from him, nor received any money, nor help of any kind, although,
as she had heard, he possessed great wealth, and kept a princely
establishment. Would I not engage on my return, at the first favourable
moment to remind him of this debt, and to get him to make them an
allowance--nay, would I not take a letter to him, or at least frank one
to him? I offered to do so. She asked me where I lived? and where she
could send me the letter. I avoided giving her my address, and engaged
to call myself for the letter on the evening of the next day.

She then recounted to me her pitiable situation: she was a widow, with
three children: one girl was being educated in a nunnery, the other
was here at home; and her son was gone to school. Besides these three
children she had her mother on her hands, for whose support she must
provide, and besides all this, out of Christian love she had taken
into her house the unfortunate sick person-and thus augmented her
miseries--all her industry scarcely sufficed to furnish herself and
children with the very barest necessaries. She well knew that God would
reward all such good works; still she could not help sighing beneath
the heavy burthen she had so long borne.

The young people joined in the conversation, and the dialogue became
livelier. While I was speaking to the others I heard the old woman
ask her daughter if I belonged to their holy religion. I was able to
observe that the daughter skilfully parried the question by assuring
her mother (as well as I could make out her words) that the stranger
appeared well disposed towards them; and that it was not proper to
question any one all at once on this point.

When they heard that I was soon to depart from Palermo, they became
still more urgent, and entreated me to come back again at all events;
especially they praised the heavenly day of S. Rosalie's festival, the
like of which was not to be seen or enjoyed in the world.

My guide, who for a long while had been wishing to get away, at last
by his signs put an end to our talk, and I promised to come on the
evening of the next day, and fetch the letter. My guide expressed
his satisfaction that all had gone off so well, and we parted, well
satisfied with each other.

You may imagine what impression this poor, pious, and well-disposed
family made upon me. My curiosity was satisfied; but their natural
and pleasing behaviour had excited my sympathy, and reflection only
confirmed my good will in their favour.

[Sidenote: Palermo--Count Cagliostro.]

But then some anxiety soon arose in my mind about to-morrow. It was
only natural that my visit, which at first had so charmed them,
would, after my departure, be talked and thought over by them. From
the pedigree I was aware that others of the family were still living.
Nothing could be more natural than that they should call in their
friends to consult them on all that they had been so astonished to
hear from me the day before. I had gained my object, and now it only
remained for me to contrive to bring this adventure to a favourable
issue. I therefore, set off the next day, and arrived at their house
just after their dinner. They were surprised to see me so early. The
letter, they told me, was not yet ready; and some of their relatives
wished to make my acquaintance, and they would be there towards evening.

I replied that I was to depart early in the morning; that I had yet
some visits to make, and had also to pack up, and that I had determined
to come earlier than I had promised rather than not come at all.

During this conversation the son entered, whom I had not seen the
day before. In form and countenance he resembled his sister. He had
brought with him the letter which I was to take. As usual in these
parts, it had been written by one of the public notaries. The youth
who was of a quiet, sad, and modest disposition, inquired about his
uncle, asked about his riches and expenditure, and added, "How could he
forget his family so long? It would be the greatest happiness to us,"
he continued, "if he would only come back and help us but he further
asked, "How came he to tell you that he had relations in Palermo? It
is said that he everywhere disowns us, and gives himself out to be of
high birth." These questions, which my guide's want of foresight on our
first visit had given rise to, I contrived to satisfy, by making it
appear possible that, although his uncle might have many reasons for
concealing his origin from the public, he would, nevertheless make no
secret of it to his friends and familiar acquaintances.

His sister, who had stepped forward during this conversation, and who
had taken courage from the presence of her brother, and probably, also,
from the absence of yesterday's friend, began now to speak. Her manner
was very pretty and lively. She earnestly begged me, when I wrote to
her uncle, to commend her to him; and not less earnestly, also, to come
back when I had finished my tour through the kingdom of Sicily, and to
attend with them the festivities of S. Rosalie.

The mother joined her voice to that of her children. "Signor," she
exclaimed, "although it does not in propriety become me, who have a
grown-up daughter, to invite strange men to my house,--and one ought
to guard not only against the danger itself, but even against evil
tongues,--still you, I can assure you, will be heartily welcome,
whenever you return to our city."

"Yes! yes!" cried the children, "we will guide the Signor throughout
the festival; we will show him every thing; we will place him on the
scaffolding from which you have the best view of the festivities.
How delighted will he be with the great car, and especially with the
splendid illuminations!"

In the mean while, the grandmother had read the letter over and over
again. When she was told that I wished to take my leave, she stood up
and delivered to me the folded paper. "Say to my son," she said, with a
noble vivacity, not to say enthusiasm, "tell my son how happy the news
you have brought me of him has made us. Say to my son, that I thus fold
him to my heart," (here she stretched out her arms and again closed
them over her bosom)--"that every day in prayer I supplicate God and
our blessed Lady for him; that I give my blessing to him and to his
wife, and that I have no wish but, before I die, to see him once again,
with these eyes, which have shed so many tears on his account."

The peculiar elegance of the Italian favoured the choice and the noble
arrangement of her words, which, moreover, were accompanied with those
very lively gestures, by which this people usually give an incredible
charm to everything they say. Not unmoved, I took my leave; they all
held out their hands to me: the children even accompanied me to the
door, and while I descended the steps, ran to the balcony of the window
which opened from the kitchen into the street, called after me, nodded
their adieus, and repeatedly cried out to me not to forget to come
again and see them. They were still standing on the balcony, when I
turned the corner.

I need not say that the interest I took in this family excited in me
the liveliest desire to be useful to them, and to help them in their
great need. Through me they were now a second time deceived, and hopes
of assistance, which they had no previous expectation of, had been
again raised, through the curiosity of a son of the north, only to be
disappointed.

[Sidenote: Palermo--Count Cagliostro.]

My first intention was to pay them before my departure these fourteen
once, which, at his departure, the fugitive was indebted to them, and
by expressing a hope that he would repay me, to conceal from them
the fact of its being a gift from myself. When, however, I got home,
and cast up my accounts, and looked over my cash and bills, I found
that, in a country where, from the want of communication, distance is
infinitely magnified, I should perhaps place myself in a strait if I
attempted to make amends for the dishonesty of a rogue, by an act of
mere good nature.

       *       *       *       *       *

The subsequent issue of this affair may as well be here introduced.

I set off from Palermo, and never came back to it; but notwithstanding
the great distance of my Sicilian and Italian travels, my soul never
lost the impression which the interview with this family had left upon
it.

I returned to my native land, and the letter of the old widow, turning
up among the many other papers, which had come with it from Naples by
sea, gave me occasion to speak of this and other adventures.

Below is a translation of this letter, in which I have purposely
allowed the peculiarities of the original to appear.

    "My Dearest Son,

    "On the 16th April, 1787, I received tidings of you through
    Mr. Wilton, and I cannot express to you how consoling it was
    to me; for ever since you removed from France, I have been
    unable to hear any tidings of you.

    "My dear Son,--I entreat you not to forget me, for I am very
    poor, and deserted by all my relations but my daughter, and
    your sister Maria Giovanna, in whose house I am living. She
    cannot afford to supply all my wants, but she does what she
    can. She is a widow, with three children: one daughter is in
    the nunnery of S. Catherine, the other two children are at
    home with her.

    "I repeat, my dear son, my entreaty. Send me just enough
    to provide for my necessities; for I have not even the
    necessary articles of clothing to discharge the duties of a
    Catholic, for my mantle and outer garments are perfectly in
    rags.

    "If you send me anything, or even write me merely a letter,
    do not send it by post, but by sea; for Don Mattéo, my
    brother (Bracconeri), is the postmaster.

    "My dear Son, I entreat you to provide me with a tari a-day,
    in order that your sister may, in some measure, be relieved
    of the burthen I am at present to her, and that I may not
    perish from want. Remember the divine command, and help a
    poor mother, who is reduced to the utmost extremity. I give
    you my blessing, and press to my heart both thee and Donna
    Lorenza, thy wife.

    "Your sister embraces you from her heart, and her children
    kiss your hands.

    "Your mother, who dearly loves you, and presses you to her
    heart.

    "Felice Balsamo.

"_Palermo, April_ 18, 1787."

Some worthy and exalted persons, before whom I laid this document,
together with the whole story, shared my emotions, and enabled me to
discharge my debt to this unhappy family, and to remit them a sum which
they received towards the end of the year 1787. Of the effect it had,
the following letter is evidence.

    "_Palermo, December_ 25, 1787.

    "Dear and Faithful Brother,

    "Dearest Son,

    "The joy which we have had in hearing that you are in good
    health and circumstances, we cannot express by any writing.
    By sending them this little assistance, you have filled with
    the greatest joy and delight a mother and a sister who are
    abandoned by all, and have to provide for two daughters and
    a son: for, after that Mr. Jacob Joff, an English merchant
    had taken great pains to find out the Donna Giuseppe Maria
    Capitummino (by birth Balsamo), in consequence of my being
    commonly known, merely as Marana Capitummino, he found us at
    last in a little tenement, where we live on a corresponding
    scale. He informed us that you had ordered a sum of money to
    be paid us, and that he had a receipt, which I, your sister,
    must sign--which was accordingly done; for he immediately
    put the money in our hands, and the favorable rate of the
    exchange has brought us a little further gain.

    "Now, think with what delight we must have received this
    sum, at a time when Christmas Day was just at hand, and
    we had no hope of being helped to spend it with its usual
    festivity.

    "The Incarnate Saviour has moved your heart to send us this
    money, which has served not only to appease our hunger, but
    actually to clothe us, when we were in want of everything.

    "It would give us the greatest gratification possible if
    you would gratify our wish to see you once more--especially
    mine, your mother, who never cease to bewail my separation
    from an only son, whom I would much wish to see again before
    I die.

    "But if, owing to circumstances, this cannot be, still do
    not neglect to come to the aid of my misery, especially as
    you have discovered so excellent a channel of communication,
    and so honest and exact a merchant, who, when we knew
    nothing about it, and when he had the money entirely in his
    own power, has honestly sought us out and faithfully paid
    over to us the sum you remitted.

    "With you that perhaps will not signify much. To us,
    however, every help is a treasure. Your sister has two grown
    up daughters, and her son also requires a little help. You
    know that she has nothing in the world; and what a good act
    will you not perform by sending her enough to furnish them
    all with a suitable outfit.

    "May God preserve you in health! We invoke Him in gratitude,
    and pray that He may still continue the prosperity you have
    hitherto enjoyed, and that He may move your heart to keep us
    in remembrance. In His name I bless you and your wife, as a
    most affectionate mother--and I your sister, embrace you:
    and so does your nephew, Giuseppe (Bracconeri), who wrote
    this letter. We all pray for your prosperity, as do also my
    two sisters, Antonia and Theresa.

    "We embrace you, and are,

    "Your sister,          "Your mother,
    who loves you,       who loves and blesses you,
    Giuseppe-Maria,      who blesses you every hour,
    Capitummino,            Felice Balsamo,
    and Balsamo.            and Bracconeri."


The signatures to the letter are in their own handwriting. I had caused
the money to be paid to them without sending any letter, or intimation
whence it came; this makes their mistake the more natural, and their
future hopes the more probable.

Now, that they have been informed of the arrest and imprisonment of
their relative, I feel myself at liberty to explain matters to them,
and to do something for their consolation. I have still a small sum
for them in my hands, which I shall remit to them, and profit by the
opportunity to explain the true state of the matter. Should any of my
friends, should any of my rich and noble countrymen, be disposed to
enlarge, by their contributions, the sum I have already in my hands, I
would exhort them in that case to forward their land gifts to me before
Michaelmas-day, in order to share the gratitude, and to be rewarded
with the happiness of a deserving family, out of which has proceeded
one of the most singular monsters that has appeared in this century.

I shall not fail to make known the further course of this story, and
to give an account of the state in which my next remittance finds the
family; and perhaps also I shall add some remarks which this matter
induced me to make, but which, however, I withhold at present in order
not to disturb my reader's first impressions.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Palermo, April_ 14, 1787.

Towards evening I paid a visit to my friend the shop-keeper, to ask him
how he thought the festival was likely to pass off; for to-morrow there
is to be a solemn procession through the city, and the Viceroy is to
accompany the host on foot. The least wind will envelop both man and
the sacred symbols in a thick cloud of dust.

With much humour he replied: In Palermo, the people look for nothing
more confidently than for a miracle. Often before now on such
occasions, a violent passing shower had fallen and cleansed the streets
partially at least, so as to make a clean road for the procession. On
this occasion a similar hope was entertained, and not without cause,
for the sky was overcast, and promised rain during the night.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Palermo, Sunday, April_ 15, 1787.

And so it has actually turned out! During the night the most violent of
showers have fallen. In the morning I set cut very early in order to be
an eye-witness of the marvel. The stream of rain-water pent up between
the two raised pavements had carried the lightest of the rubbish down
the inclined street, either into the sea or into such of the sewers as
were not stopped up, while the grosser and heavier dung was driven
from spot to spot. In this a singular meandering line of cleanliness
was marked out along the streets. On the morning hundreds and hundreds
of men were to be seen with brooms and shovels, busily enlarging this
clear space, and in order to connect it where it was interrupted by the
mire; and throwing the still remaining impurities now to this side, now
to that. By this means when the procession started, it found a clear
serpentine walk prepared for it through the mud, and so both the long
robed priests and the neat-booted nobles, with the Viceroy at their
head, were able to proceed on their way unhindered and unsplashed.

I thought of the children of Israel passing through the waters by
the dry path prepared for them by the hand of the Angel, and this
remembrance served to ennoble what otherwise would have been a
revolting sight--to see these devout and noble peers parading their
devotions along an alley, flanked on each side by heaps of mud.

[Sidenote: Palermo--Its streets.]

On the pavement there was now, as always, clean walking; but in the
more retired parts of the city whither we were this day carried in
pursuance of our intention of visiting the quarters which we had
hitherto neglected, it was almost impossible to get along, although
even here the sweeping and piling of the filth was by no means
neglected.

The festival gave occasion to our visiting the principal church of the
city and observing its curiosities. Being once on the move, we took a
round of all the other public edifices. We were much pleased with a
Moorish building, which is in excellent preservation--not very large,
but the rooms beautiful, broad, and well proportioned, and in excellent
keeping with the whole pile. It is not perhaps suited for a northern
climate, but in a southern land a most agreeable residence. Architects
may perhaps some day furnish us with a plan and elevation of it.

We also saw in most unsuitable situations various remains of ancient
marble statues, which, however, we had not patience to try to make out.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Palermo, April_ 16, 1787.

As we are obliged to anticipate our speedy departure from this
paradise, I hoped to-day to spend a thorough holiday by sitting in the
public gardens; and after studying the task I had set myself out of the
Odyssey, taking a walk through the valley, and at the foot of the hill
of S. Rosalie, thinking over again my sketch of Nausicaa, and there
trying whether this subject is susceptible of a dramatic form. All this
I have managed, if not with perfect success, yet certainly much to my
satisfaction. I made out the plan, and could not abstain from sketching
some portions of it which appeared to me most interesting, and tried to
work them out.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Palermo, Tuesday, April_ 17, 1787.

It is a real misery to be pursued and hunted by many spirits! Yesterday
I set out early for the public gardens, with a firm and calm resolve to
realize some of my poetical dreams; but before I got within sight of
them, another spectre got hold of me which has been following me these
last few days. Many plants which hitherto I had been used to see only
in pots and tubs, or under glass-frames, stand here fresh and joyous
beneath the open heaven, and as they here completely fulfil their
destination, their natures and characters became more plain and evident
to me. In presence of so many new and renovated forms, my old fancy
occurred again to me: Might I not discover the primordial plant among
all these numerous specimens? Some such there must be! For, otherwise,
how am I able at once to determine that this or that form is a plant
unless they are all formed after one original type? I busied myself,
therefore, with examining wherein the many varying shapes differed from
each other. And in every case I found them all to be more similar than
dissimilar, and attempted to apply my botanical terminology. That went
on well enough; still I was not satisfied; I rather felt annoyed that
it did not lead further. My pet poetical purpose was obstructed; the
gardens of Antinous all vanished--a real garden of the world had taken
their place. Why is it that we moderns have so little concentration of
mind? Why is it that we are thus tempted to make requisitions which we
can neither exact nor fulfil?

       *       *       *       *       *

_Alcamo, Wednesday, April_ 18, 1787.

At an early hour, we rode out of Palermo. Kniep and the Vetturino
showed their skill in packing the carnage inside and out. We drove
slowly along the excellent road, with which we had previously become
acquainted during our visit to San Martino, and wondered a second time
at the false taste displayed in the fountains on the way. At one of
these our driver stopped to supply himself with water according to
the temperate habits of this country. He had at starting, hung to the
traces a small wine-cask, such as our market-women use, and it seemed
to us to hold wine enough for several days. We were, therefore, not a
little surprised when he made for one of the many conduit pipes, took
out the plug of his cask, and let the water run into it. With true
German amazement, we asked him what ever he was about? was not the cask
full of wine? To all which, he replied with great nonchalance: he had
left a third of it empty, and as no one in this country drank unmixed
wine, it was better to mix it at once in a large quantity, as then the
liquids combined better together, and besides you were not sure of
finding water everywhere. During this conversation the cask was filled,
and we had some talk together of this ancient and oriental wedding
custom.

And now as we reached the heights beyond Mon Reale, we saw wonderfully
beautiful districts, but tilled in traditional rather than in a true
economical style. On the right, the eye reached the sea, where, between
singular shaped head-lands, and beyond a shore here covered with,
and there destitute of, trees, it caught a smooth and level horizon,
perfectly calm, and forming a glorious contrast with the wild and
rugged limestone rocks. Kniep did not fail to take miniature outlines
of several of them.

[Sidenote: Alcamo.]

We are at present in Alcamo, a quiet and clean little town, whose
well-conducted inn is highly to be commended as an excellent
establishment, especially as it is most conveniently situated for
visitors to the temple of Segeste, which lies out of the direct road in
a very lonely situation.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Alcamo, Thursday, April_ 19, 1787.

Our agreeable dwelling in this quiet town, among the mountains, has
so charmed us that we have determined to pass a whole day here. We
may then, before anything else, speak of our adventures yesterday.
In one of my earlier letters, I questioned the originality of Prince
Pallagonia's bad taste. He has had forerunners and can adduce many
a precedent. On the road towards Mon Reale stand two monstrosities,
beside a fountain with some vases on a balustrade, so utterly repugnant
to good taste that one would suppose they must have been placed there
by the Prince himself.

After passing Mon Reale, we left behind us the beautiful road, and
got into the rugged mountain country. Here some rocks appeared on the
crown of the road, which, judging from their gravity and metallic
incrustations, I took to be ironstone. Every level spot is cultivated,
and is more or less prolific. The limestone in these parts had a
reddish hue, and all the pulverized earth is of the same colour. This
red argillaceous and calcareous earth extends over a great space; the
subsoil is hard; no sand underneath; but it produces excellent wheat.
We noticed old very strong, but stumpy, olive trees.

Under the shelter of an _airy_ room, which has been built as an
addition to the wretched inn, we refreshed ourselves with a temperate
luncheon. Dogs eagerly gobbled up the skins of the sausages we threw
away, but a beggar-boy drove them off. He was feasting with a wonderful
appetite on the parings of the apples we were devouring, when he in
his turn was driven away by an old beggar. Want of work is here felt
everywhere. In a ragged toga the old beggar was glad to get a job as
house-servant, or waiter. Thus I had formerly observed that whenever a
landlord was asked for anything which he had not at the moment in the
house, he would send a beggar to the shop for it.

However, we are pretty well provided against all such sorry attendance;
for our Vetturino is an excellent fellow--he is ready as ostler,
cicerone, guard, courier, cook, and everything.

On the higher hills you find every where the olive, the caruba, and the
ash. Their system of farming is also spread over three years. Beans,
corn, fallow; in which mode of culture the people say the dung does
more marvels than all the Saints. The grape stock is kept down very low.

Alcamo is gloriously situated on a height, at a tolerable distance
from a bay of the sea. The magnificence of the country quite enchanted
us. Lofty rocks, with deep valleys at their feet, but withal wide open
spaces, and great variety. Beyond Mon Beale you look upon a beautiful
double valley, in the centre of which a hilly ridge again raises
itself. The fruitful fields lie green and quiet, but on the broad
roadway the wild bushes and shrubs are brilliant with flowers--the
broom one mass of yellow, covered with its pupilionaceous blossoms, and
not a single green leaf to be seen; the white-thorn cluster on cluster;
the aloes are rising high and promising to flower; a rich tapestry of
an amaranthine-red clover, of orchids and the little Alpine roses,
hyacinths, with unopened bells, asphodels, and other wild flowers.

[Sidenote: Sicily--Segeste.]

The streams which descend from M. Segeste leave deposits, not only of
limestone, but also of pebbles of horn-stone. They are very compact,
dark blue, yellow, red, and brown, of various shades. I also found
complete lodes of horn, or fire-stone, in the limestone rocks, edged
with lime. Of such gravel one finds whole hills just before one gets to
Alcamo.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Segeste, April_ 20, 1787.

The temple of Segeste was never finished; the ground around it was
never even levelled; the space only being smoothed on which the
peristyle was to stand. For, in several places, the steps are from
nine to ten feet in the ground, and there is no hill near, from which
the stone or mould could have fallen. Besides, the stones lie in their
natural position, and no ruins are found near them.

The columns are all standing; two which had fallen, have very recently
been raised again. How far the columns rested on a socle is hard to
say; and without an engraving it is difficult to give an idea of their
present state. At some points it would seem as if the pillars rested
on the fourth step. In that ease to enter the temple you would have to
go down a step. In other places, however, the uppermost step is cut
through, and then it looks as if the columns had rested on bases; and
then again these spaces have been filled up, and so we have once more
the first case. An architect is necessary to determine this point.

The sides have twelve columns, not reckoning the corner ones; the back
and front six, including them. The rollers on which the stones were
moved along, still lie around you on the steps. They have been left in
order to indicate that the temple was unfinished. But the strongest
evidence of this fact is the floor. In some spots (along the sides)
the pavement is laid flown, in the middle, however, the red limestone
rock still projects higher than the level of the floor as partially
laid; the flooring, therefore, cannot ever have been finished. There
is also no trace of an inner temple. Still less can the temple have
ever been overlaid with stucco; but that it was intended to do so, we
may infer from the fact that the abaci of the capitals have projecting
points probably for the purpose of holding the plaster. The whole is
built of a limestone, very similar to the travertine; only it is now
much fretted. The restoration which was carried on in 1781, has done
much good to the building. The cutting of the stone, with which the
parts have been reconnected, is simple, but beautiful. The large blocks
standing by themselves, which are mentioned by Riedesel, I could not
find; probably they were used for the restoration of the columns.

The site of the temple is singular; at the highest end of a broad
and long valley, it stands on an isolated hill. Surrounded, however,
on all sides by cliffs, it commands a very distant and extensive
view of the land, but takes in only just a corner of the sea. The
district reposes in a sort of melancholy fertility--every where well
cultivated, but scarce a dwelling to be seen. Flowering thistles were
swarming with countless butterflies, wild fennel stood here from eight
to nine feet high, dry and withered of the last year's growth, but
so rich and in such seeming order that one might almost take it to
be an old nursery-ground. A shrill wind whistled through the columns
as if through a wood, and screaming birds of prey hovered around the
pediments.

The wearisomeness of winding through the insignificant ruins of a
theatre took away from us all the pleasures we might otherwise have had
in visiting the remains of the ancient city. At the foot of the temple,
we found large pieces of the horn-stone. Indeed, the road to Alcamo is
composed of vast quantities of pebbles of the same formation. From the
road a portion of a gravelly earth passes into the soil, by which means
it is rendered looser. In some fennel of this year's growth, I observed
the difference of the lower and upper leaves; it is still the same
organisation that develops multiplicity out of unity. They are most
industrious weeders in these parts. Just as beaters go through a wood
for game, so here they go through the fields weeding. I have actually
seen some insects here. In Palermo, however, I saw nothing but worms,
lizards, leeches, and snakes, though not more finely coloured than with
us--indeed, they are mostly all gray.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Castel Vetrano, Saturday, April_ 21, 1787.

From Alcamo to Castel Vetrano you come on the limestone, after crossing
some hills of gravel. Between precipitous and barren limestone
mountains, lie wide undulating valleys, everywhere tilled, with
scarcely a tree to be seen. The gravelly hills are full of large
bolders, giving signs of ancient inundations of the sea. The soil is
better mixed and lighter than any we have hitherto seen, in consequence
of its containing some sand. Leaving Salemi about fifteen miles to our
right, we came upon hills of gypsum, lying on the limestone. The soil
appears, as we proceed, to be better and more richly compounded. In
the distance you catch a peep of the Western sea. In the foreground
the country is everywhere hilly. We found the fig-trees just budding,
but what most excited our delight and wonder was endless masses of
flowers, which had encroached on the broad road, and flourish in large
variegated patches. Closely bordering on each other, the several sorts,
nevertheless, keep themselves apart and recur at regular intervals. The
most beautiful convolvuluses, hibiscuses, and mallows, various kinds
of trefoil, here and there the garlic, and the galega-gestrauche. On
horseback you may ride through this varied tapestry, by following the
numberless and ever-crossing narrow paths which run through it. Here
and there you see feeding fine red-brown cattle, very clean-limbed and
with short horns of an extremely elegant form.

The mountains to the north-east stand all in a line. A single peak,
Cuniglione, rises boldly from the midst of them. The gravelly hills
have but few streams; very little rain seems to fall here; we did not
find a single gully giving evidence of having ever overflowed.

In the night I met with a singular incident. Quite worn out, we had
thrown ourselves on our beds in anything but a very elegant room. In
the middle of the night I saw above me a most agreeable phenomenon--a
star brighter, I think, than I ever saw one before. Just, however, as I
began to take courage at a sight which was of good omen, my patron star
suddenly disappeared, and left me in darkness again. At daybreak, I at
last discovered the cause of the marvel: there was a hole in the roof,
and at the moment of my vision one of the brightest stars must have
been crossing my meridian. This purely natural phenomenon was, however,
interpreted by us travellers as highly favourable.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Sicily--Sciacca.]

_Sciacca, April_ 22, 1787.

The road hither, which runs over nothing but gravelly hills, has been
mineralogically uninteresting. The traveller here reaches the shore
from which, at different points, bold limestone rocks rise suddenly.
All the flat land is extremely fertile; barley and oats in the finest
condition; the salsola-kali is here cultivated; the aloes since
yesterday, and the day before, have shot forth their tall spikes. The
same numerous varieties of the trefoil still attended us. At last we
came on a little wood, thick with brushwood, the tall trees standing
very wide apart;--the cork-tree at last!

       *       *       *       *       *

_Girgenti, April_ 23, 1787. _Evening._

From Sciacca to this place is a hard day's ride. We examined the baths
at the last named place. A hot stream burst from the rock with a strong
smell of sulphur; the water had a strong saline flavour, but it was
not at all thick. May not the sulphureous exhalation be formed at the
moment of its breaking from the rock? A little higher is a spring,
quite cool and without smell; right above is the monastery, where are
the vapour baths; a thick mist rises above it into the pure air.

The shingles on the shore are nothing but limestone: the quartz and
hornstone have wholly disappeared. I have examined all the little
streams: the Calta Bellota, and the Maccasoli, carry down with them
nothing but limestone; the Platani, a yellow marble and flint, the
invariable companion of this nobler calcareous formation. A few pieces
of lava excited my attention, but I saw nothing in this country that
indicated the presence of volcanic action. I supposed, therefore, they
must be fragments of millstones, or of pieces brought from a distance
for some such use or other. Near Monte Allegro, the stone is all gypsum
and selenite; whole rocks of these occurring before and between the
limestone. The wonderful strata of Calta Bellota!

       *       *       *       *       *

_Girgenti, Tuesday, April_ 24, 1787.

Such a glorious spring view as we enjoyed at sunset to-day will most
assuredly never meet our eyes again in one life-time. Modern Girgenti
stands on the lofty site of the ancient fortifications, an extent
sufficient for the present population. From our window we looked over
the broad but gentle declivity, on which stood the ancient town, which
is now entirely covered with gardens and vineyards, beneath whose
verdure it would be long before one thought of looking for the quarters
of an ancient city. However, towards the southern end of this green
and flourishing spot the Temple of Concord rears itself, while on
the east are a few remains of the Temple of Juno. Other ruins of some
ancient buildings, which lying in a straight line with those already
spoken of, are scarcely noticed by the eye from above, while it hurries
over them southwards to the shore, or ranges over the level country,
which reaches at least seven miles from the sea-mark. To-day we were
obliged to deny ourselves the pleasure of a stroll among the trees and
the wild rockets and over this region, so green, so flourishing, and so
full of promise for the husbandman, because our guide, (a good-natured
little parish priest,) begged us before all things to devote this day
to the town.

[Sidenote: Sicily-Girgenti.]

He first showed us the well-built streets; then he took us to the
higher points, from which the view, gaining both in extent and breadth,
was still more glorious, and lastly, for an artistic treat, conducted
us to the principal church. In it there is an ancient sarcophagus in
good preservation. The fact of its being used for the altar has rescued
from destruction the sculptures on it--Hippolytus attended by his
hunting companions and horses, has just been stopped by Phædra's nurse,
who wishes to deliver him a letter. As in this piece the principal
object was to exhibit beautiful youthful forms, the old woman as a mere
subordinate personage, is represented very little and almost dwarfish,
in order not to disturb the intended effect. Of all the alto-relivoes I
have ever seen, I do not, I think, remember one more glorious, and at
the same time, so well preserved as this. Until I meet with a better it
must pass with me as a specimen of the most graceful period of Grecian
art.

We were carried back to still earlier periods of art by the examination
of a costly vase of considerable size, and in excellent condition.
Moreover, many relics of ancient architecture appeared worked up here
and there in the walls of the modern church.

As there is no inn or hotel in this place, a kind and worthy family
made room for us, and gave up for our accommodation an alcove belonging
to a large room. A green curtain separated us and our baggage from
the members of the family, who, in the more spacious apartment were
employed in preparing macaroni, of the whitest and smallest kind. I
sat down by the side of the pretty children, and caused the whole
process to be explained to me, and was informed that it is prepared
from the finest and hardest wheat, called _Grano forte._ That sort
they also told me fetches the highest price, which, after being formed
into long pipes, is twisted into coils, and by the tip of the fair
artiste's fingers made to assume a serpentine shape. The preparation
is chiefly by the hand; machines and moulds are very little used. They
also prepared for us a dish of the most excellent macaroni, regretting,
however, that at that moment they had not even a single dish of the
very best kind, which could not be made out of Girgenti, nor indeed,
out of their house. What they did dress for me appeared to me to be
unequalled in whiteness and tenderness.

By leading us once more to the heights and to the most glorious points
of view, our guide contrived to appease the restlessness which during
the evening kept us constantly out of doors. As we took a survey of the
whole neighbourhood, he pointed out all the remarkable objects which on
the morrow we had proposed to examine more nearly.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Girgenti, Wednesday, April_ 25, 1787.

With sun rise we took our way towards the plain, while at every step
the surrounding scenery assumed a still more picturesque appearance.
With the consciousness that it was for our advantage, the little man
led us, without stopping, right across the rich vegetation over a
thousand little spots, each of which might have furnished the locale
for an idyllic scene. To this variety of scene the unevenness of the
country greatly contributed, which undulated as it passed over hidden
ruins, which probably were very quickly covered with fertile soil, as
the ancient buildings consisted of a light muscheltufa. At last we
arrived at the eastern end of the city, where are the ruins of the
Temple of Juno, of which, every year must have accelerated the decay,
as the air and weather are constantly fretting the soft stone of which
it is built. To-day we only devoted a cursory examination to it, but
Kniep has already chosen the points from which to sketch it to-morrow.
The temple stands on a rock which is now much worn by the weather. From
this point the city walls stretched in a straight line eastwards, to a
bed of limestone, that rises perpendicular from the level strand, which
the sea has abandoned, after having shaped these rocks and long washed
the foot of them. Hewn partly out of the native rock, and partly built
of it were the walls of ancient Agrigentum, from behind which towered
a line of temples. No wonder, then, if from the sea the lower, middle,
and upper tows, presented together a most striking aspect.

[Sidenote: Sicily-Girgenti.]

The Temple of Concord has withstood so many centuries; its light style
of architecture closely approximates it to our present standard of the
beautiful and tasteful; so that as compared with that of Pæstum, it is,
as it were, the shape of a god to that of a gigantic figure. I will
not give utterance to my regrets that the recent praiseworthy design
of restoring this monument should have been so tastelessly carried
out, that the gaps and defects are actually filled up with a dazzling
white gypsum. In consequence this monument of ancient art stands before
the eye, in a certain sense, dilapidated and disfigured. How easy it
would have been to give the gypsum the same tint as the weather-eaten
stone of the rest of the building? In truth, when one looks at the
muschelkalk of which the walls and columns are composed, and sees how
easily it crumbles away, one's only surprise is that they have lasted
so long. But the builders reckoning on a posterity of similar religion
to themselves, had taken precautions against it. One observes on the
pillars the remains of a fine plaster, which would at once please the
eye and ensure durability.

Our next halt was at the ruins of the Temple of Jupiter. Like the bones
of a gigantic skeleton, they are scattered over a large space, having
several small cottages interspersed among them, and being intersected
by hedgerows, while amidst them plants are growing of different sizes.

From this pile of ruins all the carved stone has disappeared, except
an enormous triglyph, and a part of a round pilaster of corresponding
proportions. I attempted to span it with out-stretched arms, but
could not reach round it. Of the fluting of the column, however, some
idea may be formed from the fact that, standing in it as in a niche,
I just filled it up and touched it on both sides with my shoulders.
Two-and-twenty men arranged in a circle would give nearly the periphery
of such a column. We went away with the disagreeable feeling that there
was nothing here to tempt the draughtsman.

On the other hand, the Temple of Hercules still showed some traces of
its former symmetry. The pillars of the peristyles, which ran along the
temple on its upper and lower side, lie parallel, as if they had all
fallen together, and at once, from north to south--the one row lying
up the hill, the other down it. The hill may have possibly been formed
by the ruined cells or shrines. The columns, held together in all
probability by the architrave, fell all at once being suddenly thrown
down, perhaps by a violent wind, and lie in regular order, only broken
into the pieces of which they were originally composed. Kniep was
already, in imagination, preparing his pencil for an accurate sketch of
this singular phenomenon.

The Temple of Æsculapius, lying beneath the shade of a most beautiful
carob-tree, and closely built upon by some mean farm-buildings,
presented, to our minds, a most agreeable aspect.

Next we went down to Theron's tomb, and were delighted with the actual
sight of this monument, of which we had seen so many models, especially
as it served for the foreground of a most rare prospect; for from west
to east we looked on the line of rocks on which lay the fragments of
the walls, while through the gaps of the latter, and over them, the
remains of the temples were visible.

This view has, under Hackert's skilful hand, furnished a most
delightful picture. Kniep too, will not omit to make a sketch of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Girgenti, April_ 26, 1787.

When I awoke, Kniep was all ready to start on his artistic journey,
with a boy to show him the way, and to carry his portfolio. I enjoyed
this most glorious morning at the window, with my secret and silent,
but not dumb friend by my side. A devout reverence has hitherto kept
me from mentioning the name of the Mentor whom, from time to time,
I have looked up and listened to. It is the excellent Von Reidesel,
whose little volume I carry about with me in my bosom, like a breviary
or talisman. At all times I have had great pleasure in looking up to
those whom I know to be possessed of what I am most wanting in myself.
And this is exactly the case here. A steady purpose, a fixed object,
direct and appropriate means, due preparation and store of knowledge,
an intimate connexion with a masterly teacher--he studied under
Winckelmann--all these advantages I am devoid of, as well as of all
that follows from them. And yet I cannot feel angry with myself that
I am obliged to gain by indirect arts and means, and to seize at once
what my previous existence has refused to grant me gradually in the
ordinary way. Oh that this worthy person could, at this moment, in the
midst of his bustling world, be sensible of the gratitude with which a
traveller in his footsteps celebrates his merits, in that beautiful but
solitary spot, which had so many charms for him, as to induce the wish
that he might end his days there.

    Oblitusque _suorum_ obliviscendus et illis.

With my guide, the little parson, I now retraced our yesterday's walk,
observing the objects from several points, and every now and then
taking a peep at my industrious friend.

[Sidenote: Sicily-Girgenti.]

My guide called my attention to a beautiful institution of the once
flourishing city. In the rocks and masses of masonry, which stand
for bulwarks of the ancient Agrigentum, are found graves, probably
intended for the resting place of the brave and good. Where could they
more fitly have been buried, for the sake of their own glory, or for
perpetuating a vivid emulation of their great and good deeds!

In the space between the walls and the sea there are still standing
the remains of an ancient temple, which are preserved as a Christian
chapel. Here also are found round pilasters, worked up with, and
beautifully united to the square blocks of the wall, so as to produce
an agreeable effect to the eye. One fancies that one here discerns the
very spot where the Doric style reached its perfection.

Many an insignificant monument of antiquity was cursorily glanced at;
but more attention was paid to the modern way of keeping the corn under
the earth in great vaulted chambers. Of the civil and ecclesiastical
condition of the city, my guide gave me much information; but I heard
of nothing that showed any signs of improvement. The conversation
suited well with the ruins, which the elements are still preying upon.

       *       *       *       *       *

The strata of the muschelkalk all incline towards the sea,--banks of
rock strangely eaten away from beneath and behind, while the upper and
front portions still remain, looking like pendant fringes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Great hatred is here felt against the French, because they have made
peace with the people of Barbary. They are even charged with betraying
the Christians to the infidels.

       *       *       *       *       *

From the sea there was an ancient gateway, which was cut through the
solid rock. The foundation of the walls, which are still standing,
rests as it were on steps in the rocks.

Our cicerone is Don Michaele Vella, antiquary, residing at the house of
Signore Cerio, near S. Maria's.

       *       *       *       *       *

In planting the marsh-beans they proceed in the following way:--Holes
are made in the earth at a convenient distance from each other, and a
handful of dung is thrown in. A shower is then waited for, after which
they put in the seed. The people here burn the bean-haulms, and wash
their linen with the ashes. They never make use of soap. The outer
shells of almonds are likewise burnt and used instead of soda. They
first of all wash the clothes with pure water, and then with the ley of
these ashes.

       *       *       *       *       *

The succession of their crops is, beans, wheat, and tumenia. By beans
I mean the marsh-bean. Their wheat is wonderfully fine. Tumenia, of
which the name is derived from bimenia or trimenia, is a glorious gift
of Ceres. It is a species of spring wheat, which is matured within
three months. It is sown at different times, from the first of January
to June, so that for a certain period there is always a crop ripe. It
requires neither much rain nor great warmth. At first it has a very
delicate leaf, but in its growth it soon overtakes the wheat, and at
last is very strong. Wheat is sown in October and November, and ripens
in June. The barley sown in November is ripe by the first of June. Near
the coast it ripens sooner, but on the mountains more slowly.

       *       *       *       *       *

The flax is already ripe. The acanthus has unrolled its splendid
leaves. The _Salsala fruticosa_ is growing luxuriantly.

On the uncultivated hills grows a rich sainfoin. It is farmed out, and
then carried into the town in small bundles. In the same way the oats
which are weeded out of the wheat, are done up for sale.

For the sake of irrigation, they make very pretty divisions with
edgings in the plots where they plant their cabbages.

The figs have put forth all their leaves, and the fruit is set. They
are generally ripe by midsummer, when the tree sets its fruit again.
The almond trees are well loaded; a sheltered carob-tree has produced
numberless pods. The grapes for the Table are trained on arbours
supported by high props. Melons set in March and ripen by June. Among
the ruins of Jupiter's temple they thrive vigorously without a trace of
moisture.

Our vetturino eats with, great zest raw artichokes and the
turnip-cabbage. However, it is necessary to add that they are tenderer
and more delicate than with us. When you walk through the fields the
farmers allow you to take as many of the young beans, or other crops,
as you like.

       *       *       *       *       *

As my attention was caught by some hard black stones, which looked like
lava, my antiquary observed that they were from Ætna; and that at the
harbour, or rather landing-place, many similar ones were to be found.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of birds there are not many kinds native here: quails are the most
common. The birds of passage are, nightingales, larks, and swallows.
The Rinnine--small black birds, which come from the Levant--hatch their
young in Sicily, and then go further or retire. The Ridene come in
December or January, and after alighting and resting awhile on Acragas,
take their flight towards the mountains.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of the vase in the cathedral one word more. The figures in relief on
it are, a hero in full armour, seemingly a stranger, before an old man
whom a crown and sceptre, point out to be a king. Behind the latter
stands a female figure, with her head slightly inclined, and her hand
under her chin--a posture indicating thoughtful attention. Right
opposite to her, and behind the hero, is an old man who also wears a
crown, and is speaking to a man armed with a spear, probably one of the
body-guard of the former royal personage. This old man would appear to
have introduced the hero, and to be saying to the guard, "Just let him
speak to the king; he is a brave man."

[Sidenote: Sicily-Girgenti.]

Red seems to be the ground of the vase, the black to be laid on. It is
only in the female's robe that red seems to be laid on the black.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Girgenti, Friday, April_ 27, 1787.

If Kniep is to finish all he proposes, he must sketch away incessantly.
In the meantime I walk about with my little antiquary. We took a walk
towards the sea, from which Agrigentum must, as the ancients asserted,
have looked extremely well. Our view was turned to the billowy expanse,
and my guide called my attention to a broad streak of clouds towards
the south, which, like a ridge of hills, seemed to rest on the line
of the horizon. "This," he said, "indicated the coast of Africa."
About the same time another phenomenon struck me as singular. It was a
rainbow in a light cloud, which, resting with one limb on Sicily, threw
its arch high against the clear sky, and appeared to rest with the
other on the sea. Beautifully tinted by the setting sun, and shewing
but little movement, it was to the eye an object as rare as it was
agreeable. This bow, I was assured, was exactly in the direction of
Malta, and in all probability its other limb rested on that island. The
phenomenon, I was told, was of common occurrence. It would be singular
if the attractive force of these two islands should thus manifest
itself even in the atmosphere.

This conversation excited again the question I had so often asked
myself: whether I ought to give up all idea of visiting Malta. The
difficulties and dangers, however, which had been already well
considered, remained the same; and we, therefore, resolved to engage
our vetturino to take us to Messina.

But, in the meantime, a strange and peculiar whim was to determine our
future movements. For instance, in my travels through Sicily, I had,
as yet seen but few districts rich in corn: moreover, the horizon had
everywhere been confined by nearer or remoter lines of hills, so that
the island appeared to be utterly devoid of level plains, and I found
it impossible to conceive why Ceres had so highly favoured this island.
As I sought for information on this point, I was answered that, in
order to see this, I ought, instead of going to Syracuse, to travel
across the island, in which case I should see corn-fields in abundance.
We followed this temptation, of giving up Syracuse, especially as I was
well aware that of this once glorious city scarcely anything but its
splendid name remained. And, at any rate, it was easy to visit it from
Catania.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Caltanisetta, Saturday, April_ 28, 1787.

At last, we are able to understand how Sicily gained the honourable
title of the Granary of Italy. Shortly after leaving Girgenti, the
fertile district commenced. It does not consist of a single great
plain, but of the sides of mountains and hills, gently inclined
towards each other, everywhere planted with wheat, or barley which
present to the eye an unbroken mass of vegetation. Every spot of earth
suited to these crops is so put to use and so jealously looked after,
that not a tree is anywhere to be seen. Indeed, the little villages
and farm-houses all lie on the ridges of the hills, where a row of
limestone rocks, which often appear on the surface, renders the ground
unfit for tillage. Here the females reside throughout the year, busily
employed in spinning and weaving; but the males, while the work in the
fields is going on, spend only Saturday and Sunday at home, staying
away at their work during the other days, and spending their nights
under temporary straw-sheds.

And so our wish was gratified--even to satiety; we almost wished for
the winged car of Triptolemus to escape from the monotony of the scene.

[Sidenote: Sicily--Caltanisetta.]

After a long drive under the hot sun, through this wilderness
of fertility, we were glad enough when, at last, we reached the
well-situated and well-built Caltanisetta; where, however, we had again
to look in vain for a tolerable inn. The mules are housed in fine
vaulted stables; the grooms sleep on the heaps of clover which are
intended for the animals' food; but the stranger has to look out for
and to prepare his own lodging. If, by chance, he can hire a room, it
has first of all to be swept out and cleaned. Stools or chairs, there
are none: the only seats to be had are low little forms of hard wood:
tables are not to be thought of.

If you wish to convert these forms into a bedstead, you must send to
a joiner, and hire as many planks as you want. The large leathern
bag, which Hackert lent me, was of good use now, and was, by way of
anticipation, filled with chaff.

But, before all things, provisions must be made for your meals. On
our road we had bought a fowl; our vetturino ran off to purchase some
rice, salt, and spice. As, however, he had never been here before, he
was for a long time in a perplexity for a place to cook our meal in,
as in the post-house itself there was no possibility of doing it. At
last, an old man of the town agreed for a fair recompense to provide
us with a hearth together with fuel, and cooking and table utensils.
While our dinner was cooking, he undertook to guide us round the town,
and finally to the market-house, where the principal inhabitants, after
the ancient fashion, met to talk together, and also to hear what we or
other strangers might say.

We were obliged to talk to them of Frederick the Second, and their
interest in this great king was such that we thought it advisable to
keep back the fact of his death lest our being the bearers of such
untoward news should render us unwelcome to our hosts.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Caltanisetta, Saturday, April_ 28, 1787.

Geology by way of an appendix! From Girgenti, the muschelkalk rocks;
there also appeared a streak of whitish earth, which afterwards we
accounted for: the older limestone formation again occurs, with gypsum
lying immediately upon it. Broad flat vallies; cultivated almost
up to the top of the hill-side, and often quite over it: the older
limestone mixed with crumbled gypsum. After this appeal's a looser,
yellowish, easily crumbling, limestone; in the arable fields you
distinctly recognize its colour, which often passes into darker, indeed
occasionally violet shades. About half-way the gypsum again recurs. On
it you see, growing in many places, a beautiful violet, almost rosy red
sedum, and on the limestone rocks a beautiful yellow moss.

This very crumbling limestone often shows itself; but most prominently
in the neighbourhood of Caltanisetta, where it lies in strata,
containing a few fossils; there its appearance is reddish, almost of
a vermilion tint, with little of the violet hue, which we formerly
observed near San Martino.

Pebbles of quartz I only observed at a spot about half-way on our
journey, in a valley which, shut in on three sides, is open towards the
east, and consequently also towards the sea.

On the left, the high mountain in the distance, near Camerata, was
remarkable, as also was another looking like a propped up cone. For
the greatest half of the way not a tree was to be seen. The crops
looked glorious, though they were not so high as they were in the
neighbourhood of Girgenti and near the coast; however, as clean as
possible. In the fields of corn, which stretched further than the eye
could reach, not a weed to be seen. At first we saw nothing but green
fields, then some ploughed lands, and lastly, in the moister spots,
little patches of wheat, close to Girgenti. We saw apples and pears
everywhere else; on the heights, and in the vicinity of a few little
villages, some fig-trees.

These thirty miles, together with all that I could distinguish,
either on the right or left of us, was limestone of earlier or later
formations, with gypsum here and there. It is to the crumbling and
elaboration of these three together by the atmosphere that this
district is indebted for its fertility. It must contain but very
little sand, for it scarcely grates between the teeth. A conjecture
of mine with regard to the river Achates must wait for the morrow to
confirm or not.

[Sidenote: Sicily--Castro Giovanni.]

The valleys have a pretty form, and although they are not flat, still
one does not observe any trace of rain gullies; merely a few brooks,
scarcely noticeable, ripple along them for all of them flow direct to
the sea. But little of the red clover is to be seen; the dwarf palm
also disappears here, as well as all the other flowers and shrubs
of the south-western side of the island. The thistles are permitted
to take possession of nothing but the way-sides, every other spot
is sacred to Ceres. Moreover, this region has a great similarity
to the hilly and fertile parts of Germany--for instance, the tract
between Erfurt and Gotha, especially when you look out for points of
resemblance. Very many things must combine together in order to make
Sicily one of the most fertile regions of the world.

On our whole tour, we have seen but few horses; ploughing is carried
on with oxen; and a law exists which forbids the killing of cows and
calves. Goats, asses, and mules, we met in abundance. The horses are
mostly dapple grey, with black feet and manes; the stables are very
splendid, with well-paved and vaulted stalls. For beans and flax the
land is dressed with dung; the other crops are then grown after this
early one has been gathered in. Green barley in the ear, done up in
bundles, and red clover, in like fashion, art: offered for sale to the
traveller as he goes along.

On the hill above Caltanisetta, I found a hard limestone with fossils:
the larger shells lay lowermost, the smaller above them. In the
pavement of this little town, we noticed a limestone with pectinites.

       *       *       *       *       *

_April_ 28, 1787.

Behind Caltanisetta, the hill subsided suddenly into many little
valleys, all of which pour their streams into the river Salso. The
soil here is reddish and very loamy; much of it unworked; what was in
cultivation bore tolerably good crops, though inferior to what we had
elsewhere seen.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Castro Giovanni, Sunday, April_ 29, 1787.

To-day we had to observe still greater fertility and want of
population. Heavy rains had fallen, which made travelling anything but
pleasant, as we had to pass through many streams, which were swollen
and rapid. At the Salso, where one looks round in vain for a bridge,
I was struck with a very singular arrangement for passing the ford.
Strong powerful men were waiting at the river-side; of these two placed
themselves on each side of a mule, and conducted him, rider, baggage
and all, through the deep part of the river, till they reach a great
bank of gravel in the middle; when the whole of the travellers have
arrived at this spot, they are again conducted in the same manner
through the second arm of the stream, while the fellows, by pushing and
shoving, keep the animal in the right tract, and support him against
the current.

On the water-side I observed bushes, which, however, do not spread far
into the land. The Salso washes down rubbles of granite--a transition
of the gneiss, and marble, both breccian and also of a single colour.

We now saw before us the isolated mountain ridge on which Castro
Giovanni is situate, and which imparts to the country about it a grave
and singular character. As we rode up the long road which traverses
its side, we found that the rock consisted of muschelkalk; large
calcined shells being huddled together in heaps. You do not see Castro
Giovanni until you reach the very summit of the ridge, for it lies on
the northern declivity of the mountain. The singular little town, with
its tower, and the village of Caltaseibetta, at a little distance on
the left, stand, as it were, solemnly gazing at each other. In the
plains we saw the bean in full blossom; but who is there that could
take pleasure in such a sight? The roads here were horrible, and the
more so because they once were paved, and it rained incessantly. The
ancient _Enna_ received us most inhospitably,--a room with a paved
floor, with shutters and no window, so that we must either sit in
darkness or be again exposed to the beating rain, from which we had
thought to escape by putting up here. Some relics of our travelling
provisions were greedily devoured; and the night passed most miserably.
We made a solemn vow never to direct our course again towards never so
mythological a name.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Monday, April_ 30, 1787.

The road leading from Castro Giovanni was so rough and bad, that we
were obliged to lead our horses down it. The sky before us was covered
with thick and low clouds, while high above them a singular phenomenon
was observable. It was striped white and grey, and seemed to be
something corporeal; but how could aught corporeal get into the sky?
Our guide enlightened us. This subject of our amazement was a side of
Mount Ætna, which appeared through the opening clouds. Snow alternating
with the crags formed the stripes--it was not, however, the highest
peak that we saw.

[Sidenote: Sicily--Castro Giovanni.]

The precipitous rock on which the ancient Enna was situated lay behind
us; and we drove through long, long, lonely valleys: there they lay,
uncultivated and uninhabited, abandoned to the browsing cattle, which
we observed were of a beautiful brown colour, not large, short-horned,
clean-limbed, lank and lively as deer. These poor cattle had pasturage
enough, but it was greatly encroached upon, and in some parts wholly
taken possession of by the thistles. These plants have here the finest
opportunities possible to disperse their seed and to propagate their
kind; they take up an incredible space, which would make pasture land
enough for two large estates. As they are not perennial, they might, if
mowed down before flowering, be easily eradicated.

However, after having thus seriously meditated an agricultural
campaign against the thistles, I must, to my shame, admit they are
not altogether useless. At a lonely farm-house where we pulled up to
bait, there were also stopping two Sicilian noblemen, who on account of
some process were riding straight across the country to Palermo. With
amazement we saw both these grave personages standing before a patch of
these thistles, and with their pocket-knives cutting off the tops of
the tall shoots. Then holding their prickly booty by the tips of their
fingers, they pealed off the rind, and devoured the inner part with
great satisfaction. In this way they occupied themselves a considerable
time, while we were refreshing ourselves with wine (this time it was
unmixed) and bread. The vetturino prepared for us some of this marrow
of thistle stalks, and assured us that it was a wholesome, cooling
food; it suited our taste, however, as little as the raw cabbage at
Segeste.

       *       *       *       *       *

_On the Road, April_ 30, 1787.

Having reached the valley through which the rivulet of S. Pacio winds
its way, we found the district consisting of a reddish, black, and
crumbly limestone: many brooks, a very white soil, a beautiful valley,
which the rivulet made extremely agreeable. The well compounded loamy
soil is in some places twenty feet deep, and for the most part of
similar quality throughout. The crops looked beautiful; but some of
them were not very clean, and all of them very backward as compared
with those on the southern side. Here there are the same little
dwellings--and not a tree, as was the case immediately after leaving
Castro Giovanni. On the banks of the river plenty of pasture land, but
sadly confined by vast masses of thistles. In the gravel of the river
we again found quartz, both simple and breccian.

Molimenti, quite a new village, wisely built in the centre of beautiful
fields, and on the banks of the rivulet S. Paolo. The wheat in its
neighbourhood was unrivalled: it will be ready to cut as early as by
the 20th May. In the whole district I could not discover as yet a trace
of volcanic influence: even the stream brings down no pebbles of that
character. The soil is well mixed, heavy rather than light, and has
on the whole a coffee-brown and slightly violet hue. All the hills on
the left, which inclose the stream, are limestone, whose varieties I
had no opportunity of observing. They, however, as they crumble under
the influence of the weather, are evidently the causes of the great
fertility that marks the district throughout.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Tuesday, May_ 1, 1787.

Through a valley which, although by nature it was throughout alike
destined to fertility, was unequally cultivated, we rode along very
moodily because among so many prominent and irregular shapes not one
appeared to suit our artistic designs. Kniep had sketched a highly
interesting outline, but because the foreground and intermediate space
was thoroughly revolting, he had with a pleasant joke appended to it
a foreground of Poussin's, which cost him nothing. However, they made
together a very pretty picture. How many "picturesque tours" in all
probability contain half truths of the like kind.

Our courier, with the view of soothing our grumbling humour, promised
us a good inn for the evening. And in fact, he brought us to an hotel
which had been built but a few years since on the road side, and being
at a considerable distance from Catania, cannot but be right welcome
to all travellers. Por our part, finding ourselves, after twelve days
of discomfort, in a tolerable apartment, we were right glad to be
so much at our ease again. But we were surprised at an inscription
pencilled on the wall in an English character. The following was its
purport:--"Traveller, whoever you may be, be on your guard against the
inn known in Catania by the sign of the Golden Lion; it is better to
fall into the claws of all the Cyclops, Sirens, and Scylla together
than to go there." Although we at once supposed that the good-meaning
counsellor had no doubt by his mythological figures magnified the
danger, we nevertheless determined to keep out of the reach of the
"Golden Lion," which was thus proclaimed to us to be so savage a beast.
When, therefore, our muleteer demanded of us where we would wish to put
up in Catania, we answered anywhere but at the Golden Lion! Whereupon
he ventured to recommend us to stop where he put up his beasts, only he
said we should have to provide for ourselves just as we had hitherto
done.

       *       *       *       *       *

Towards Hybla Major pebbles of lava present themselves, which the
stream brings down from the north. Over the ferry you find limestone,
which contains all sorts of rubble, hornstone, lava, and calx; and
then hardened volcanic ashes, covered over with calcareous tufa. The
hills of mixed gravel continue till you come near to Catania, at and
beyond which place you find the lava flux, from Ætna. You leave on the
left what looks like a crater. (Just under Molimenti the peasants were
pulling up the flax.) Nature loves a motly garb; and here you may see
how she contrives gaily to deck out the dark bluish-gray lava of the
mountains. A few seasons bring over it a moss of a high yellow colour,
upon which a beautiful red sedum grows luxuriantly, and some other
lovely violet flowers. The plantations of Cactus and the vine-rows
bespeak a careful cultivation. Now immense streams of lava begin to hem
us in. Motta is a beautiful and striking rock. The beans are like very
high shrubs. The fields vary very much in their geological features;
now very gravelly, now better mixed.

[Sidenote: Sicily--Molimenti.]

The vetturino, who probably had not for a long time seen the vegetation
of the south-eastern side of the island, burst into loud exclamations
about the beauty of the crops, and with self complaisant patriotism
demanded of us, if we ever saw such in our own country? Here, however,
every thing is sacrificed to them; you see few if any trees. But the
sight that most pleased us was a young girl, of a splendid but slight
form, who, evidently an old acquaintance, kept up with the mule of our
vetturino, chatting the while, and spinning away with all the elegance
possible.

Now yellow tints begin to predominate in the flowers. Towards
Misterbianco the cactuses are again found in the hedges; but hedges
entirely of this strangely grown plant become, as you approach Catania,
more and more general, and are even still more beautiful.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Catania, May_ 2, 1787.

In our auberge we found ourselves, we must confess, most uncomfortable.
The meal, such as our muleteer could alone furnish, was none of
the best. A fowl stewed in rice would have been tolerable, but for
an immoderate spice of saffron, which made it not more yellow than
disagreeable. The most abominable of bad beds had almost driven me a
second time to bring out Hackert's leathern bag, and we therefore next
morning spoke on this subject to our obliging host. He expressed his
regret that it was not in his power to provide better for us; "but,"
he said, "there is, above there, a house where strangers are well
entertained, and have every reason to be satisfied."

Saying this, he pointed to a large corner house, of which the part
that was turned towards us seemed to promise well. We immediately
hurried over to it, and found a very testy personage, who declared
himself to be a waiter, and who in the absence of the landlord showed
us an excellent bedroom with a sitting-room adjoining, and assured us
at the same time that we should be well attended to. Without delay we
demanded, according to our practice, what was the charge for dinner,
for wine, for luncheon, and other particulars. The answers were all
fair; and we hastily had our trifles brought over to the house, and
arranged them in the spacious and gilded buffets. For the first time
since we left Palermo, Kniep found an opportunity to spread out his
portfolio, and to arrange his drawings, as I did my notes. Then
delighted with our fine room, we stept out on the balcony of the
sitting-room to enjoy the view. When we got tired of looking at and
extolling the prospect, we turned to enter our apartment, and commence
our occupations, when, lo! over our head was a large golden lion,
regarding us with a most threatening aspect. Quite serious we looked
for a moment in one another's face, then smiled, and laughed outright.
From this moment, however, we began to look around us to see whether we
could discover any of these Homeric goblins.

[Sidenote: Sicily--Catania.]

Nothing of the kind was to be seen. On the contrary, we found in
the sitting-room a pretty young woman, who was playing about with a
child from two to three years old, who stood suddenly still on being
hastily scolded by the vice-landlord:--"You must take yourself off!" he
testily exclaimed; "you have no business here." "It is very hard," she
rejoined, "that you drive me away; the child is scarcely to be pacified
in the house when you are away, and the signori will allow me, at least
while you are present, to keep the child quiet." The husband made no
reply, but proceeded to drive her away; the child at the door cried
most miserably, and at last we did most heartily wish that the pretty
young madam had stayed.

Warned by the Englishman, it was no art to see through the comedy: we
played the _Neulinge_, the _Unschuldige_--he, however, with his very
loving paternal feelings, prevailed very well. The child in fact was
evidently very fond of him--and probably the seeming mother had pinched
him at the door to make him cry so.

And so, too, with the greatest innocence possible she came and stayed
with him as the man went out to deliver for us a letter of introduction
to the Domestic Chaplain of Prince Biscari. She played and toyed with
the child till he came back bringing word from the Abbé that he would
come himself and talk with us on the matter.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Catania, Thursday, May_ 3, 1787.

The Abbé, who yesterday evening came and paid his respects to us,
appeared this morning in good time, and conducted us to the palace,
which is of one story, and built on a tolerably high socle. First of
all we visited the museum, where there is a large collection of marble
and bronze figures, vases, and all sorts of such like antiques. Here
we had once more an opportunity of enlarging our knowledge; and the
trunk of a Jupiter, which I was already acquainted with through a cast
in Tischbein's studio, particularly ravished me. It possesses merits
far higher than I am able to estimate. An inmate of the house gave
us all necessary historical information. After this we passed into a
spacious and lofty saloon. The many chairs around and against the walls
indicated that a numerous company was often assembled here. We seated
ourselves in hope of a favourable reception. Soon afterwards two ladies
entered and walked several times up and down the room. From time to
time they spoke to each other. When they observed us, the Abbé rose,
and I did the same, and we both bowed. I asked, Who are they? and I
learned that the younger lady was daughter of the Prince, but the elder
a noble lady of Catania. We resumed our seats, while they continued to
walk up and down as people do in a market-place.

We were now conducted to the Prince, who (as I had been already given
to understand) honoured me with a singular mark of his confidence in
showing me his collection of coins, since, by such acts of kindness,
both his father and himself had lost many a rare specimen; and so
his general good nature, and wish to oblige, had been naturally
much contracted. On this occasion I probably appeared a little
better informed than formerly, for I had learned something from the
examination of Prince Torremuzza's collection. I again contrived
to enlarge my knowledge, being greatly helped by Winckelmann's
never-failing clues, which safely led the way through all the different
epochs of art. The Prince, who was well informed in all these matters,
when he saw that he had before him not a connoisseur, but an attentive
amateur, willingly informed me of every particular that I found it
necessary to ask about.

After having given to these matters, considerable, but still far less
time than they deserved, we were on the point of taking our leave,
when the Prince conducted us to the Princess, his mother, in whose
apartments the smaller works of art are to be seen.

We found a venerable, naturally noble lady, who received us with the
words, "Pray look round my room, gentlemen; here you still see all that
my dear departed husband collected and arranged for me. This I owe to
the affection of my son, who not only allows me still to reside in his
best room, but has even forbidden the least thing to be taken away
or removed that his late father purchased for me, and chose a place
for. Thus I enjoy a double pleasure; not only have I been able these
many years to live in my usual ways and habits, but also I have, as
formerly, the opportunity to see and form the acquaintance of those
worthy strangers who come hither from widely distant places to examine
our treasures."

[Sidenote: Catania-The Prince Biscani's Palace.]

She thereupon, with her own hands, opened for us the glass-case
in which the works in amber were preserved. The Sicilian amber is
distinguished from the northern, by its passing from the transparent
and non-transparent,--from the wax and the honey-coloured,--through all
possible shades of a deep yellow, to the most beautiful hyacinthian
red. In the case there were urns, cups, and other things, and for
executing which large pieces of a marvellous size must have been
necessary; for such objects, and also for cut-shells, such as are
executed at Trapani, and also for exquisitely manufactured articles in
ivory, the Princess had an especial taste, and about some of them she
had amusing stories to tell. The Prince called our attention to those
of more solid value among them; and so several hours slipped away--not,
however, without either amusement or edification.

In the course of our conversation, the Princess discovered that we were
Germans: she therefore asked us after Riedesel, Bartels, and Münter,
all of whom she knew, and whose several characters she seemed well able
to appreciate, and to discriminate. We parted reluctantly from her, and
she seemed also unwilling to bid us farewell. An insular life has in it
something very peculiar to be thus excited and refreshed by none but
passing sympathies.

From the palace the Abbé led us to the Benedictine Monastery, and took
us to the cell of a brother of the order, whose reserved and melancholy
expression (though he was not of more than the middle age) promised but
little of cheerful conversation. He was, however, the skilful musician
who alone could manage the enormous organ in the church of this
monastery. As he rather guessed than waited to hear our request, so he
complied with it in silence. We proceeded to the very spacious church,
where, sitting down at the glorious instrument, he made its softest
notes whisper through its remotest corners, or filled the whole of it
with the crash of its loudest tones.

If you had not previously seen the organist, you would fancy that none
but a giant could exercise such power; as, however, we were already
acquainted with his personal appearance, we only wondered that the
necessary exertion had not long since worn him out.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Catania, Friday, May_ 4, 1787.

Soon after dinner our Abbé arrived with a carriage, and proposed to
show us a distant part of the city. Upon entering it we had a strange
dispute about precedence. Having got up first, I had seated myself on
the left-hand side. As he ascended, he begged of me to move, and to
take the right-hand seat. I begged him not to stand on such ceremony.
"Pardon me," he replied, "and let us sit as I propose; for if I take
my place on your right, every one will believe that I am taking a ride
with you; but if I sit on your left, it is thereby indicated that you
are riding with me, that is, with him who has, in the Prince's name, to
show you the city." Against this nothing could, of course, be objected,
and it was settled accordingly.

We drove up the streets where the lava, which, in 1699, destroyed a
great part of this city, remains visible to this day. The solid lava
had been worked like any other rock,--streets had even been marked
out on its surface, and partly built. I placed under the seat of the
carriage an undoubted specimen of the molten rock, remembering that,
just before my departure from Germany, the dispute had arisen about the
volcanic origin of basalt. And I did so in many other places, in order
to have several varieties.

However, if natives had not proved themselves the friends of their
own land, had they not even laboured, either for the sake of profit
or of science, to bring together whatever is remarkable in this
neighbourhood, the traveller would have had to trouble himself long,
and to little purpose. In Naples I had received much information from
the dealer in lava, but still more instruction did I get here from the
Chevalier Gioeni. In his rich and excellently arranged museum I learned
more or less correctly to recognise the various phenomena of the lava
of Ætna; the basalt at its foot, stones in a changed state--everything,
in fact, was pointed out tome in the most friendly maimer possible.
What I saw most to be wondered at, was some zeolites from the rugged
rocks which rise out of the sea below Jaci.

As we inquired of the Chevalier which was the best course to take in
order to ascend Ætna, he would not hear of so dangerous an attempt
as trying to reach the summit, especially in the present season of
the year. "Generally," he observed, begging my pardon, however, "the
strangers who come here think far too lightly of the matter; we,
however, who are neighbours of the mountain, are quite contented if,
twice in our life, we hit on a very good opportunity to reach the
summit. _Brydone_, who was the first by his description to kindle a
desire to see this fiery peak, did not himself ascend it. Count Borch
leaves his readers in uncertainty; but, in fact, even he ascended
only to a certain height: and the same may be said of many others.
At present the snow comes down far too low, and presents insuperable
obstacles. If you would take my advice, you will ride very early some
morning for Monte Rosso, and be contented with ascending this height.
From it you will enjoy a splendid view of Ætna, and at the same time
have an opportunity of observing the old lava, which, bursting out from
that point in 1697, unhappily poured down upon the city. The view is
glorious and distinct; it is best to listen to a description for all
the rest."

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Sicily--Catania.]

_Catania, Saturday, May_ 5, 1787.

Following this good counsel, we set out early on a mule; and,
continually looking behind us on our way, reached at last the region
of the lava, as yet unchanged by time. Jagged lumps and slabs stared
us in the face, among which a chance road had been tracked out by the
beasts. We halted on the first considerable eminence. Kniep sketched
with wonderful precision, what lay before us. The masses of lava in
the foreground, the double peak of Monte Rosso on the left, right
before us the woods of Nicolosi, out of which rose the snow-capped and
slightly smoking summit. We drew near to the Red Mountain. I ascended
it. It is composed entirely of red volcanic rubbish, ashes, and stones,
heaped together. It would have been very easy to go round the mouth
of the crater, had not a violent and stormy east wind made my footing
unsteady. When I wished to go a little way, I was obliged to take off
my cloak, and then my hat was every moment in danger of being blown
into the crater, and I after it. On this account I sat down in order
to recover myself, and to take a view of the surrounding objects; but
even this position did not help meat all. The wind came direct from the
east, over the glorious land which, far and near, and reaching to the
sea, lay below me. The outstretched strand, from Messina to Syracuse,
with its bays and headlands, was before my eyes, either quite open,
or else (though only in a few small points) covered with rocks. When
I came down quite numbed, Kniep, under the shelter of the hill, had
passed his time well, and with a few light lines on the paper had
perpetuated the memory of what the wild storm had allowed me scarcely
to see, and still less to fix permanently in my mind.

Returned once more to the jaws of the Golden Lion, we found the waiter,
whom we had with difficulty prevented from accompanying us. He praised
our prudence in giving up the thought of visiting the summit, but
urgently recommended for the next day a walk by the sea to the rocks
of Jaci--it was the most delightful pleasure-trip that could be made
from Catania: but it would be well to take something to eat and drink
with us, and also utensils for warming our viands. His wife offered
herself to perform this duty. Moreover, he spoke of the jubilee there
was when some Englishmen hired a boat with a band of music to accompany
them--which made it more delightful than it was possible to form any
idea of.

The rocks of Jaci had a strong attraction for me; I had a strong desire
to knock off from them as fine zeolites as I had seen in Gioeni's
possession. It was true we might reduce the scale of the affair, and
decline the attendance of the wife; but the warning of the Englishman
prevailed over every other consideration. We gave up all thoughts of
zeolites, and prided ourselves not a little at this act of self-denial.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Catania, Sunday, May_ 6, 1787.

Our clerical companion has not failed us to-day. He conducted us to
some remains of ancient architecture; in examining which, however, the
visitor needs to bring with him no ordinary talent of restoration. We
saw the remains of the great cisterns of a naumachy, and other similar
ruins, which, however, have been filled up and depressed by the many
successive destructions of the city by lava, earthquakes, and wars. It
is only those who are most accurately acquainted with the architecture
of the ancients that can now derive either pleasure or instruction from
seeing them.

The kind Abbé engaged to make our excuses for not waiting again on the
Prince, and we parted with lively expressions of mutual gratitude and
good will.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Sicily--Taormina.]

_Taormina, Monday, May_ 7, 1787.

God be thanked that all that we have here seen this day has been
already amply described--but still more, that Kniep has resolved to
spend the whole of to-morrow in the open air, taking sketches. When you
have ascended to the top of the wall of rocks, which rise precipitously
at no great distance from the sea, you find two peaks, connected by a
semi-circle. Whatever shape this may have had originally from Nature
has been helped by the hand of man, which has formed out of it an
amphitheatre for spectators. Walls and other buildings have furnished
the necessary passages and rooms. Right across, at the foot of the
semicircular range of seats, the scene was built, and by this means the
two rocks were joined together, and a most enormous work of nature and
art combined.

Now, sitting down at the spot where formerly sat the uppermost
spectators, you confess at once that never did any audience, in any
theatre, have before it such a spectacle as you there behold. On the
right, and on high rocks at the side, castles tower in the air-farther
on the city lies below you; and although its buildings are all of
modern date, still similar ones, no doubt, stood of old on the same
site. After this the eye falls on the whole of the long ridge of Ætna,
then on the left it catches a view of the sea-shore, as far as Catania,
and even Syracuse, and then the wide and extensive view is closed by
the immense smoking volcano, but not horribly, for the atmosphere, with
its softening effect, makes it look more distant, and milder than it
really is.

If now you turn from this view towards the passage running at the back
of the spectators, you have on the left the whole wall of the rocks
between which and the sea runs the road to Messina. And then again you
behold vast groups of rocky ridges in the sea itself, with the coast of
Calabria in the far distance, which only a fixed and attentive gaze can
distinguish from the clouds which rise rapidly from it.

We descended towards the theatre, and tarried awhile among its ruins,
on which an accomplished architect would do well to employ, at least
on paper, his talent of restoration. After this I attempted to make a
way for myself through the gardens to the city. But I soon learnt by
experience what an impenetrable bulwark is formed by a hedge of agaves
planted close together. You can see through their interlacing leaves,
and you think, therefore, it will be easy to force a way through them;
but the prickles on their leaves are very sensible obstacles. If you
step on these colossal leaves, in the hope that they will bear you,
they break off suddenly; and so, instead of getting out, you fall into
the arms of the next plant. When, however, at last we had wound our way
out of the labyrinth, we found but little to enjoy in the city; though
from the neighbouring country we felt it impossible to part before
sunset. Infinitely beautiful was it to observe this region, of which
every point had its interest, gradually enveloped in darkness.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Below Taormina: on the Sea-shore_, _Tuesday, May_ 8, 1787.

Kniep, whom, by good luck, I brought with me hither, cannot be praised
enough for relieving me of a burden which would have been intolerable
to me, and which goes directly counter to my nature. He has gone to
sketch in detail the objects which yesterday he took a general survey
of. He will have to point his pencil many a time, and I know not when
he will have finished, I shall have it in my power to see all these
sights again. At first I wished to ascend the height with him; but
then, again, I was tempted to remain here; I sought a corner like the
bird about to build its nest. In a sorry and neglected peasant's garden
I have seated myself, on the trunk of an orange-tree, and lost myself
in reveries. Orange-branches, on which a traveller can sit, sounds
rather strangely; but seems quite natural when one knows that the
orange-tree, left to nature, sends out at a little distance from the
root, twigs, which, in time, become decided branches.

And so, thinking over again the plan of the "Nausicaa," I formed the
idea of a dramatic concentration of the "Odyssey." I think the scheme
is not impracticable, only it will be indispensable to keep clearly in
view the difference of the Drama and the Epopée.

Kniep has come down, quite happy and delighted, and has brought back
with him two large sheets of drawing-paper, covered with the clearest
outlines. Both will contribute to preserve in my mind a perpetual
memory of these glorious days.

It must not be left unrecorded, that on this shore, and beneath the
clearest sky, we looked around us, from a little, balcony, and saw
roses, and heard the nightingales. These we are told sing here during
at least six months of the twelve.

       *       *       *       *       *

_From Memory._

The activity of the clever artist who accompanies me, and my own more
desultory and feeble efforts, having now assured me the possession of
well-selected sketches of the country and its most remarkable points
(which, either in outline, or if I like, in well-finished paintings,
will be mine for ever), I have been able to resign myself more entirely
to an impulse which has been daily growing in strength. I have felt
an irresistible impulse to animate the glorious scenes by which I am
surrounded--the sea, the island, the heavens, with appropriate poetical
beings, and here, in and out of this locality, to finish a composition
in a tone and spirit such as I have not yet produced. The clear sky;
the smell of the sea, the halo which merges, as it were, into one the
sky, the headlands, and the sea--all these afforded nourishment to my
purpose; and whilst I wandered in those beautiful gardens, between
blossoming hedges of oleander, and through arbours of fruit-bearing
orange, and citron-trees, and between other trees and shrubs, which
were unknown to me, I felt the strange influence in the most agreeable
way possible.

[Sidenote: Sicily--Sketch of Nausicaa, a tragedy.]

Convinced that for me there could be no better commentary on the
"Odyssey" than even this very neighbourhood, I purchased a copy, and
read it, after my own fashion, with incredible interest. But I was also
excited by it to produce something of my own, which, strange as it
seemed at the first look, became dearer and dearer, and at last took
entire possession of me. For I entertained the idea of treating the
story of Nausicaa as the subject of a tragedy.

It is impossible for me even to say what I should have been able to
make of it, but the plan I had quite settled in my mind. The leading
idea was to paint in Nausicaa, an amiable and excellent maiden
who, wooed by many suitors, but conscious of no preference, coldly
rejected all advances, who, however, falling in love with a remarkable
stranger, suddenly alters her own conduct, and by an over-hasty avowal
of her affection compromises herself; and consequently gives rise
to a truly tragic situation. This simple fable might, I thought, be
rendered highly interesting by an abundance of subordinate motives,
and especially by the naval and insular character of the locality, and
of the personages where and among whom the scene was laid, and by the
peculiar tone it would thence assume.

The first act began with the game at ball. The unexpected acquaintance
is made; the scruple to lead him herself into the city is already the
harbinger of her love.

The second act unfolds the characters of the household of Alcinous, and
of the suitors, and ends with the arrival of Ulysses.

The third is devoted entirely to exhibiting the greatness and merits of
the new comer, and I hoped to be able in the course of the dialogue,
(which was to bring out the history of his adventures), to produce
a truly artistic and agreeable effect by representing the various
ways in which this story was received by his several hearers. During
the narrative, the passions were to be heightened, and Nausicaa's
lively sympathy with the stranger to be thrown out more and more by
conflicting feelings.

In the fourth act, Ulysses, (off the scene,) gives convincing proofs
of his valour; while the women remain, and give full scope to their
likings, their hopes, and all other tender emotions. The high favour in
which the stranger stands with all, makes it impossible for Nausicaa to
restrain her own feelings, and so she becomes irreparably compromised
with her own people. Ulysses, who, partly innocent, partly to blame,
is the cause of all this, now announces his intention to depart; and
nothing remains for the unhappy Nausicaa, but in the fifth act to seek
for an end of existence.

In this composition, there was nothing which I was not able by
experience to paint after nature. Even while travelling--even in
peril--to excite favourable feelings which, although they did not end
tragically, might yet prove painful enough, and perhaps dangerous,
and would, at all events, leave deep wounds behind--even the supposed
accidents of describing, in lively colours, for the entertainment of
others, objects observed at a great distance from home, travelling
adventures and chances of life--to be looked upon by the young as a
demigod, but by the more sedate as a talker of rhodomontade, and to
meet now with unexpected favour, and now with unexpected rebuffs--all
this caused me to feel so great an attachment to this plan, that in
thinking of it, I dreamed away all the time of my stay at Palermo, and,
indeed, of all the rest of my Sicilian tour. It was this that made
me care little for all the inconvenience and discomfort I met with;
for, on this classic ground, a poetic vein had taken possession of
me, causing all that I saw, experienced, or observed, to be taken and
regarded in a joyous mood.

After my usual habit--whether a good or a bad one--I wrote down little
or nothing of the piece; but worked in my mind the most of it, with all
the minutest detail. And there, in my mind, pushed out of thought by
many subsequent distractions, it has remained until tills moment, when,
however, I can recollect nothing but a very faint idea of it.

       *       *       *       *       *

_May_ 8, 1787. _On the road to Messina._

High limestone rocks on the left. They become more deeply coloured as
you advance, and form many beautiful caves. Presently there commences a
sort of rock which may be called clay slate, or sand-stone (greywacke).
In the brooks you now meet pebbles of granite. The yellow apples of the
solanum, the red flowers of the oleander, give beauty to the landscape.
The little stream of Nisi brings down with it mica-pebbles, as do also
all the streams we afterwards came to.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Wednesday, May_ 9, 1787.

Beaten by a stormy east wind, we rode between the raging sea on the
right, and the wall of rocks, from the top of which we were yesterday
looking down; but this day we have been continually at war with the
water. We had to cross innumerable brooks, of which the largest bears
the honourable title of a river. However, these streams, as well as the
gravel which they bring down with them, were easier to buffet with than
the sea, which was raging violently, and at many places dashed right
over the road against the rocks, which threw back the thick spray on
the travellers. It was a glorious sight, and its rarity to us made us
quite ready to put up with all its inconvenience.

At the same time there was no lack of objects for the mineralogical
observer. Enormous masses of limestone, undermined by the wind and the
waves, fall from time to time; the softer particles are worn away by
the continual motion of the waves, while the harder substances imbedded
in them are left behind; and so the whole strand is strewed with
variegated flints verging on the hornstone, of which I selected and
carried off many a specimen.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Sidenote: Sicily-The road to Messina.]

_Messina, Thursday, May_ 10, 1787.

And so at last we arrived in Messina, where, as we knew of no lodging,
we made up our minds to pass the first night at the quarters of our
vetturino, and then look out in the morning for a more comfortable
habitation. In consequence of i his resolution, our first entrance gave
us the terrible idea of entering a ruined city. For, during a whole
quarter of an hour as we rode along, we passed ruin after ruin, before
we reached the auberge, which, being the only new building that has
sprung up in this quarter, opens to you from its first story window a
view of nothing but a rugged waste of ruins. Beyond the circle of the
stable yard not a living being of any kind was to be seen. During the
night the stillness was frightful. The doors would neither bolt nor
even close; there was no more provision here for the entertainment
of human guests than at any other of the similar posting stations.
However, we slept away very comfortably on a mattress which our
vetturino took away from beneath the very body of our host.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Friday, May_ 11, 1787.

To-day we parted from our worthy muleteer, and a good largesse rewarded
him for his attentive services. We parted very amicably, after he had
first procured us a servant, to take us at once to the best inn in the
place, and afterwards to show us whatever was at all remarkable in
Messina. Our first host, in order that his wish to get rid of us might
be gratified as quickly as possible, helped to carry our boxes and
other packages to a pleasant lodging nearer to the inhabited portion
of the city--that is to say, beyond the city itself. The following
description will give some idea of it. The terrible calamity which
visited Messina and swept away twelve thousand of its inhabitants,
did not leave behind it a single dwelling for the thirty thousand who
survived. Most of the houses were entirely thrown down; the cracked and
shaking walls of the others made them quite unsafe to live in. On the
extensive meads, therefore, to the north of Messina, a city of planks
was hastily erected, of which any one will quickly form an idea who has
ever seen the Römerberg at Frankfort during the fair, or has passed
through the market-place at Leipzig; for all the retail houses and
the workshops are open towards the street, and the chief business is
carried on in front of them. Therefore, there are but few of the larger
houses even that are particularly well closed against publicity. Thus,
then, have they been living for three years, and the habits engendered
by such booth-like, hut-like, and, indeed, tent-like dwellings, has
had a decided influence on the character of the occupants. The horror
caused by this unparalleled event, the dread of its recurrence, impels
them with light-hearted cheerfulness to enjoy to the utmost the
passing moment. A dreadful expectation of a fresh calamity was excited
on 21st April--only twenty days ago, that is--by an earthquake, which
again sensibly shook the ground. We were shown a small church where
a multitude of people were crowded together at the very moment, and
perceived the trembling. Some persons who were present at the time do
not appear even yet to have recovered from their fright.

[Sidenote: Sicily--Messina.]

In seeking out and visiting these spots we were accompanied by a
friendly consul, who spontaneously put himself to much trouble on our
account--a kindness to be gratefully acknowledged in this wilderness
more than in any other place. At the same time, having learned that we
were soon about to leave, he informed us that a French merchantman was
on the point of sailing for Naples. The news was doubly welcome, as the
flag of France is a protection against the pirates.

We made our kind cicerone aware of our desire to examine the inside of
one of the larger (though still one storied) huts, and to see their
plain and extemporized economy. Just at this moment we were joined by
an agreeable person, who presently described himself to be a teacher of
French. After finishing our walk, the consul made known to him our wish
to look at one of these buildings, and requested him to take us home
with him and show us his.

We entered the hut, of which the sides and roof consisted alike of
planks. The impression it left on the eye was exactly that of one
of the booths in a fair, where wild beasts or other curiosities are
exhibited. The timber work of the walls and the roof was quite open. A
green curtain divided off the front room, which was not covered with
deals, but the natural floor was left just as in a tent. There were
some chairs and a table; but no other article of domestic furniture.
The space was lighted from above by the openings which had been
accidentally left in the roofing. We stood talking together for some
time, while I contemplated the green curtain and the roof within, which
was visible over it, when all of a sudden from the other side of the
curtain two lovely girls' heads, black-eyed, and black-haired, peeped
over full of curiosity, but vanished again as soon as they saw they
were perceived. However, upon being asked for by the consul, after the
lapse of just so much time as was necessary to adorn themselves, they
came forward, and with their well dressed and neat little bodies crept
before the green tapestry. From their questions we clearly perceived
that they looked upon us as fabulous beings from another world, in
which most amiable delusion our answers must have gone far to confirm
them. The consul gave a merry description of our singular appearance:
the conversation was so very agreeable, that we found it hard to part
with them. It was not until we had got out of the door that it occurred
to us that we had never seen the inner room, and had forgotten all
about the construction of the house, being entirely taken up with its
fair inhabitants.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Messina, Saturday, May_ 12, 1787.

Among other things we were told by the consul, that although it was not
indispensably necessary, still it would be as well to pay our respects
to the governor, a strange old man, who, by his humours and prejudices,
might as readily injure as benefit us: that besides it always told
in his (the consul's) favour if he was the means of introducing
distinguished personages to the governor; and besides, no stranger
arriving here can tell whether some time or other he may not somehow or
other require the assistance of this personage. So to please my friend,
I went with him.

As we entered the ante-chamber, we heard in the inner room a most
horrible hubbub; a footman, with a very punch-like expression of
countenance, whispered in the consul's ear:--"An ill day--a dangerous
moment!" However we entered, and found the governor, a very old man,
sitting at a table near the window, with his back turned towards
us. Large piles of old discoloured letters were lying before him,
from which, with the greatest sedateness, he went on cutting out the
unwritten portion of the paper--thus giving pretty strong proofs of
his love of economy. During this peaceful occupation, however, he was
fearfully rating and cursing away at a respectable looking personage,
who, to judge from his costume, was probably connected with Malta,
and who, with great coolness and precision of manner, was defending
himself, for which, however, he was afforded but little opportunity.
Though thus rated and scolded, he yet with great self-possession
endeavoured by appealing to his passport and to his well-known
connections in Naples, to remove a suspicion which the governor, as it
would appear, had formed against him as coming backwards and forwards
without any apparent business. All this, however, was of no use: the
governor went on cutting his old letters, and carefully separating the
clean paper, and scolding all the while.

[Sidenote: Sicily--Messina.]

Besides ourselves there were about twelve other persons in the room,
spectators of the bull-baiting, standing hovering in a very wide
circle, and apparently envying us our proximity to the door, as a
desirable position should the passionate old man seize his crutch, and
strike away right and left. During this scene our good consul's face
had lengthened considerably; for my part, my courage was kept up by the
grimaces of a footman, who, though just outside the door, was close to
me, and who, as often as I turned round, made the drollest gestures
possible to appease my alarm, by indicating that all this did not
matter much.

And indeed the awful affair was quickly brought to an end. The old man
suddenly closed it with observing that there was nothing to prevent
him clapping the Maltese in prison, and letting him cool his heels in
a cell--however, he would pass it over this time; he might stay in
Messina the few days he had spoken of--but after that he must pack
off, and never show his face there again. Very coolly, and without
the slightest change of countenance, the object of suspicion took his
leave, gracefully saluting the assembly, and ourselves in particular,
as he passed through the crowd to get to the door. As the governor
turned round fiercely, intending to add yet another menace, he caught
sight of us, and immediately recovering himself, nodded to the consul,
upon which he stepped forward to introduce me.

The governor was a person of very great age; his head bent forwards on
his chest, while from beneath his grey shaggy brows, black sunken eyes
cast forth stealthy glances. Now, however, he was quite a different
personage, from what we had seen a few moments before. He begged me to
be seated; and still uninterruptedly pursuing his occupation, asked me
many questions, which I duly answered, and concluded by inviting me to
dine with him as long as I should remain here. The consul, satisfied as
well as myself, nay, even more satisfied, since he knew better than I
did the danger we had escaped, made haste to descend the stairs; and,
for my part, I had no desire ever again to approach the lion's den.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Messina, Sunday, May_ 13, 1787.

Waking this morning, we found ourselves in a much pleasanter apartment,
and with the sun shining brightly, but still in poor afflicted Messina.
Singularly unpleasant is the view of the so-called Palazzata, a
crescent-shaped row of real palaces, which for nearly a quarter of a
league encloses and marks out the roadstead. All were built of stone,
and four stories high; of several the whole front, up to the cornice
of the roof, is still standing, while others have been thrown down
as low as the first, or second, or third story. So that this once
splendid line of buildings exhibits at present with its many chasms and
perforations, a strangely revolting appearance: for the blue heaven may
be seen through almost every window. The interior apartments in all are
utterly destined and fallen.

One cause of this singular phenomenon is the fact that the splendid
architectural edifices erected by the rich, tempted their less wealthy
neighbours to vie with them, in appearance at least, and to hide behind
a new front of cut stone the old houses, which had been built of larger
and smaller rubble-stones, kneaded together and consolidated with
plenty of mortar. This joining, not much to be trusted at any time,
was quickly loosened and dissolved by the terrible earthquake. The
whole fell together. Among the many singular instances of wonderful
preservation which occurred in this calamity, they tell the following.
The owner of one of these houses had, exactly at the awful moment,
entered the recess of a window, while the whole house fell together
behind him; and there, suspended aloft, but safe, he calmly awaited
the moment of his liberation from his airy prison. That this style of
building, which was adopted in consequence of having no quarries in the
neighbourhood, was the principal cause why the ruin of the city was so
total as it was, is proved by the fact that the houses which were of a
more solid masonry are still standing. The Jesuits' College and Church,
which are solidly built of cut stone, are still standing uninjured,
with their original substantial fabric unimpaired. But whatever may be
the cause, the appearance of Messina is most oppressive, and reminds
one of the times when the Sicani and Siculi abandoned this restless and
treacherous district, to occupy the western coast of the island.

After passing the morning in viewing these ruins, we entered our inn to
take a frugal meal, We were still sitting at table, feeling ourselves
quite comfortable, when the consul's servant rushed breathless into
the room, declaring that the governor had been looking for me all
over the city--he had invited me to dinner, and yet I was absent. The
consul earnestly intreated me to go immediately, whether I had or not
dined--whether I had allowed the hour to pass through forgetfulness or
design. I now felt, for the first time, how childish and silly it was
to allow my joy at my first escape to banish all further recollection
of the Cyclop's invitation. The servant did not allow me to loiter; his
representations were most urgent and most direct to the point; if I did
not go the consul would be in danger of suffering all that this fiery
despot might chose to inflict upon him and his countrymen.

[Sidenote: Messina--The Palazzata.]

Whilst I was arranging my hair and dress, I took courage, and with
a lighter heart followed, invoking Ulysses as my patron saint, and
begging him to intercede in my behalf with Pallas Athène.

Arrived at the lion's den, I was conducted by a fine footman into
a large dining-room, where about forty people were sitting at an
oval table, without, however, a word being spoken. The place on the
governor's right was unoccupied, and to it was I accordingly conducted.

Having saluted the host and his guests with a low bow, I took my seat
by his side, excused my delay by the vast size of the city, and by
the mistakes which the unusual way of reckoning the time had so often
caused me to make. With a fiery look, he replied, that if a person
visited foreign countries, he ought to make a point to learn its
customs, and to guide his movements accordingly. To this I answered
that such was invariably my endeavour, only I had found that, in a
strange locality, and amidst totally new circumstances, one invariably
fell at first, even with the very best intentions, into errors
which might appear unpardonable, but for the kindness which readily
accepted in excuse for them the plea of the fatigue of travelling, the
distraction of new objects, the necessity of providing for one's bodily
comforts, and, indeed, of preparing for one's further travels.

Hereupon he asked me how long I thought of remaining. I answered that
I should like, if it were possible, to stay here for a considerable
period, in order to have the opportunity of attesting, by my close
attention to his orders and commands, my gratitude for the favour he
had shewn me. After a pause he inquired what I had seen in Messina? I
detailed to him my morning's occupation, with some remarks on what I
had seen, adding that what most had struck me was the cleanliness and
good order in the streets of this devastated city. And, in fact, it was
highly admirable to observe how all the streets had been cleared by
throwing the rubbish among the fallen fortifications, and by piling up
the stones against the houses, by which means the middle of the streets
had been made perfectly free and open for trade and traffic. And
this gave me an opportunity to pay a well-deserved compliment to his
excellency, by observing that all the Messinese thankfully acknowledged
that they owed this convenience entirely to his care and forethought.
"They acknowledge it, do they," he growled: "well, every one at first
complained loudly enough of the hardship of being compelled to take
his share of the necessary labour." I made some general remarks upon
the wise intentions and lofty designs of government being only slowly
understood and appreciated and on similar topics. He asked if I had
seen the Church of the Jesuits, and when I said, No, he rejoined that
he would cause it to be shown to me in all its splendour.

During this conversation, which was interrupted with a few pauses, the
rest of the company, I observed, maintained a deep silence, scarcely
moving except so far as was absolutely necessary in order to place
the food in their mouths. And so, too, when the table was removed,
and coffee was served, they stood up round the walls like so many wax
dolls. I went up to the chaplain, who was to shew me the church, and
began to thank him in advance for the trouble. However, he moved off,
after humbly assuring me that the command of his excellency was in his
eyes all sufficient. Upon this I turned to a young stranger who stood
near, who, however, Frenchman as he was, did not seem to be at all at
his ease; for he, too, seemed to be struck dumb and petrified, like the
rest of the company, among whom I recognized many faces who had been
anything but willing witnesses of yesterday's scene.

[Sidenote: Messina--The Governor.]

The governor moved to a distance; and after a little while, the
chaplain observed to me that it was time to be going. I followed him;
the rest of the company had silently one by one disappeared. He led
me to the gate of the Jesuit's church, which rises in the air with
all the splendour and really imposing effect of the architecture of
these fathers. A porter came immediately towards us, and invited us
to enter; but the priest held me back, observing that we must wait
for the governor. The latter presently arrived in his carriage, and,
stopping in the piazza, not far from the church, nodded to us to
approach, whereupon all three advanced towards him. He gave the porter
to understand that it was his command that he should not only shew me
the church and all its parts, but should also narrate to me in full the
histories of the several altars and chapels; and, moreover, that he
should also open to me all the sacristies, and shew me their remarkable
contents. I was a person to whom he was to show all honour, and who
must have every cause on his return home to speak well and honourably
of Messina. "Fail not," he then said, turning to me with as much of a
smile as his features were capable of,--"Fail not as long as you are
here to be at my dinner-table in good time--you shall always find a
hearty welcome." I had scarcely time to make him a most respectful
reply before the carriage moved on.

From this moment the chaplain became more cheerful, and we entered
the church. The Castellan (for so we may well name him) of this fairy
palace, so little suited to the worship of God, set to work to fulfil
the duty so sharply enjoined on him, when Kniep and the consul rushed
into the empty sanctuary, and gave vent to passionate expressions of
their joy at seeing me again and at liberty, who, they had believed,
would by this time have been in safe custody. They had sat in agonies
until the roguish footman (whom probably the consul had well-feed) came
and related with a hundred grimaces the issue of the affair; upon which
a cheerful joy took possession of them, and they at once set out to
seek me, as their informant had made known to them the governor's kind
intentions with regard to the church, and thereby gave them a hope of
finding me.

We now stood before the high altar, listening to the enumeration of
the ancient rarities with which it was inlaid: pillars of lapis lazuli
fluted, as it were, with bronzed and with gilded rods; pilasters and
panellings after the Florentine fashion; gorgeous Sicilian agates in
abundance, with bronze and gilding perpetually recurring and combining
the whole together.

And now commenced a wondrous counterpointed _fugue_, Kniep and the
consul dilating on the perplexities of the late incident, and the
showman enumerating the costly articles of the well-preserved
splendour, broke in alternately, both fully possessed with their
subject. This afforded a twofold gratification; I became sensible how
lucky was my escape, and at the same time had the pleasure of seeing
the productions of the Sicilian mountains, on which, in their native
state, I had already bestowed attention, here worked up and employed
for architectural purposes.

My accurate acquaintance with the several elements of which this
splendour was composed, helped me to discover that what was called
lapis lazuli in these columns was probably nothing but calcara, though
calcara of a more beautiful colour than I ever remember to have
seen, and withal most incomparably pieced together. But even such as
they are, these pillars are still most highly to be prized; for it
is evident that an immense quantity of this material must have been
collected before so many pieces of such beautiful and similar tints
could be selected; and in the next place, considerable pains and labour
must have been expended in cutting, splitting, and polishing the stone.
But what task was ever too great for the industry of these fathers?

During my inspection of these rarities, the consul never ceased
enlightening me on the danger with which I had been menaced. The
governor, he said, not at all pleased that, on my very first
introduction to him, I should have been a spectator of his violence
towards the quasi Maltese, had resolved within himself to pay me
especial attention, and with this view he had settled in his own mind
a regular plan, which, however, had received a considerable check from
my absence at the very moment in which it was first to be carried
into effect. After waiting a long while, the despot at last sat down
to dinner, without, however, been able to conceal his vexation and
annoyance, so that the company were in dread lest they should witness a
scene either on my arrival or on our rising from table.

Every now and then the sacristan managed to put in a word, opened the
secret chambers, which are built in beautiful proportion, and elegantly
not to say splendidly ornamented. In them were to be seen all the
moveable furniture and costly utensils of the church still remaining,
and these corresponded in shape and decoration with all the rest. Of
the precious metals I observed nothing, and just as little of genuine
works of art, whether ancient or modern.

Our mixed Italian-German _fugue_ (for the good father and the sacristan
chaunted in the former tongue, while Kniep and the consul responded
in the latter) came to an end just as we were joined by an officer
whom I remembered to have seen at the dinner-table. He belonged to
the governor's suite. His appearance certainly calculated to excite
anxiety, and not the less so as he offered to conduct me to the
harbour, where he would take me to certain parts which generally were
inaccessible to strangers. My friends looked at one another; however,
I did not suffer myself to be deterred by their suspicions from going
alone with him. After some talk about indifferent matters, I began
to address him more familiarly, and confessed that during the dinner
I had observed many of the silent party making friendly signs to me,
and giving me to understand that I was not among mere strangers and
men of the world, but among friends, and, indeed, brothers: and that
I had, therefore, nothing to fear. I felt it a duty to thank him, and
to request him to be the bearer of similar expressions of gratitude to
the rest of the company. To all this he replied, that they had sought
to calm any apprehensions I might have felt; because, well acquainted
as they were with the character of their host, they were convinced that
there was really no cause for alarm; for explosions like that with the
Maltese were but very rare, and when they did happen, the worthy old
man always blamed himself afterwards, and would for a long time keep a
watch over his temper, and go on for a while in the calm and assured
performance of his duty, until at last some unexpected rencontre would
surprise and carry him away by a fresh outbreak of passion.

My valiant friend further added, that nothing was more desired by him
and his companions than to bind themselves to me by a still closer tie,
and therefore he begged that I would have the great kindness of letting
them know where it might be done this evening, most conveniently to
myself. I courteously declined the proffered honour, and begged him to
humour a whim of mine, which made me wish to be looked upon during my
travels merely as a man; if as such I could excite the confidence and
sympathy of others, it would be most agreeable to me, and what I most
wished,--but that many reasons forbade me to enter into other relations
or connexions.

Convince him I could not,--for I did not venture to tell him what was
really my motive. However, it struck me as remarkable, that under so
despotic a government, these kind-hearted persons should have formed
so excellent and so innocent an union for mutual protection, and for
the benefit of strangers. I did not conceal from him the fact, that I
was well aware of the ties subsisting between them and other German
travellers, and expatiated at length on the praiseworthy objects they
had in view; and so only caused him to feel still more surprise at my
obstinacy. He tried every possible inducement to draw me out of my
incognito--however, he did not succeed, partly because, having just
escaped one danger, I was not inclined for any object whatever, to run
into another; and partly because I was well aware that the views of
these worthy islanders were so very different from my own, that any
closer intimacy with them could lead neither to pleasure nor comfort.

On the other hand, I willingly spent a few hours with our well-wishing
and active consul, who now enlightened us as to the scene with the
Maltese. The latter was not really a mere adventurer,--still he was a
restless person, who was never happy in one place. The governor, who
was of a great family, and highly honored for his sincerity and habits
of business, and was also greatly esteemed for his former important
services, was, nevertheless, notorious for his illimitable self-will,
his unbridled passion, and unbending obstinacy. Suspicious, both as an
old man and a tyrant,--more anxious lest he should have, than convinced
that he really had, enemies at court, he looked upon as spies, and
hated all persons who, like this Maltese, were continually coming
and going, without any ostensible business. This time the red cloak
had crossed him, when, after a considerable period of quiet, it was
necessary for him to give vent to his passion, in order to relieve his
mind.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Written partly at Messina, and partly at Sea, Monday, May_ 4, 1787.

Both Kniep and myself awoke with the same feelings; both felt annoyed
that we had allowed ourselves, under the first impression of disgust
which the desolate appearance of Messina had excited, to form the hasty
determination of leaving it with the French merchantman. The happy
issue of my adventure with the governor, the acquaintance which I had
formed with certain worthy individuals, and which it only remained for
me to render more intimate, and a visit which I had paid to my banker,
whose country-house was situated in a most delightful spot: all this
afforded a prospect of our being able to spend most agreeably a still
longer time in Messina. Kniep, quite taken up with two pretty little
children, wished for nothing more than that the adverse wind, which
in any other case would be disagreeable enough, might still last for
some time. In the meanwhile, however, our position was disagreeable
enough,--all must be packed up, and we ourselves be ready to start at a
moment's warning.

[Sidenote: Messina--Character of the Governor.]

And so, at last, about mid-day the summons came; and we hastened
on board, and found among the crowd collected on the shore our
worthy consul, from whom we took our leave with many thanks. The
sallow footman, also, pressed forward to receive his douceur--he was
accordingly duly rewarded, and charged to mention to his master the
fact of our departure, and to excuse our absence from dinner. "He who
sails away is at once excused," exclaimed he; and then turning round
with a very singular spring, quickly disappeared.

In the ship itself things looked very different from what they had done
in the Neapolitan corvette. However, as we gradually stood off from the
shore, we were quite taken up with the glorious view presented by the
circular line of the Palazzata, the citadel, and by the mountains which
rose behind the city. Calabria was on the other side. And then the wide
prospect northwards and southwards over the strait,--a broad expanse
indeed, but still shut in on both sides by a beautiful shore. While
we were admiring these objects, one after another, our attention was
diverted to a certain commotion in the water, at a tolerable distance
on the left hand, and still nearer on the right, to a rock distinctly
separate from the shore. They were Scylla and Charybdis. These
remarkable objects, which in nature stand so wide apart, but which the
poet has brought so close together, have furnished occasion to many
to make grave complaints of the fabling of poetry. Such grumblers,
however, do not duly consider that the imaginative faculty invariably
depicts the objects it would represent as grand and impressive, with
a few striking touches, rather than in fulness of detail, and that
thereby it lends to the image more of character, solemnity, and
dignity. A thousand times have I heard the complaint that the objects
for a knowledge of which we are originally indebted to description,
invariably disappoint us when we see them with our own eyes. The cause
is, in every case, the same. Imagination and reality stand in the same
relation to each other as poetry and prose do: the former invariably
conceives of its objects as powerful and elevated, the latter loves to
dilate and to expand them. A comparison of the landscape painters of
the 16th century with those of our own day, will strikingly illustrate
my meaning. A drawing of Iodocus Momper, by the side of one of Kniep's
outlines, would at once make the contrast intelligible.

With such and similar discourses we contrived to amuse ourselves, since
the coasts were not attractive enough, even for Kniep, notwithstanding
his having prepared everything for sketching.

As to myself, however, I was again attacked with sea-sickness; but this
time the unpleasant feeling was not relieved by separation and privacy,
as it was on our passage over. However, the cabin was large enough
to hold several persons, and there was no lack of good mattresses.
I again resumed the horizontal position, in which I was diligently
tended by Kniep, who administered to me plenty of red wine and good
bread. In this position our Sicilian expedition presented itself to
my mind in no very agreeable light. On the whole, we had really seen
nothing but traces of the utterly vain struggle which the human race
makes to maintain itself against the violence of Nature, against the
malicious spite of Time, and against the rancour of its own unhappy
divisions. The Carthaginians, the Greeks, the Romans, and the many
other races which followed in succession, built and destroyed. Selinus
lies methodically overthrown by art and skill; two thousand years have
not sufficed to throw down the temples of Gergenti; a few hours, nay
a few minutes were sufficient to overwhelm Catania and Messina. These
sea-sick fancies, however, I did not allow to take possession of a mind
tossed up and down on the waves of life.

       *       *       *       *       *

_At Sea, Tuesday, May_ 16, 1787.

My hope of having a quicker passage back to Naples, or at least of
recovering sooner from my sea-sickness, has been disappointed. Several
times I attempted, at Kniep's recommendation, to go up on deck; however
all enjoyment of the varying beauty of the scene was denied me. Only
one or two incidents had power to make me forget awhile my giddiness.
The whole sky was overcast with a thin vapoury cloud, through which
the sun (whose disk, however, was not discernible) illuminated the sea,
which was of the most beautiful blue colour that ever was seen. A troop
of dolphins accompanied the ship; swimming or leaping they managed to
keep up with it. I could not help fancying that in the deep water, and
at the distance, our floating edifice must have seemed to them a black
point, and that they had hurried towards it as to a welcome piece of
booty and consumption. However that may be, the sailors did not treat
them as kind guides, but rather as enemies; one was hit with a harpoon,
but not hauled on deck.

[Sidenote: The voyage from Messina to Naples.]

The wind continued unfavourable, and by continually tacking and
manœuvring, we only just managed not to lose way. Our impatience at
this only increased when some experienced persons among the passengers
declared that neither the captain nor the steersman understood their
business. The one might do very well as captain, and the other as a
mariner---they were, however, not fit to be trusted with the lives of
so many passengers and such a valuable freight.

I begged these otherwise most doughty personages to keep their fears to
themselves. The number of the passengers was very great, and among them
were several women and children of all ages; for every one had crowded
on board the French merchantman, without a thought of any thing but
of the protection which the white flag assured them from the pirates.
I therefore represented to these parties that the expression of their
distrust and anxiety would plunge in the greatest alarm those poor
folk who had hitherto placed all their hopes of safety in the piece of
uncoloured and unemblazoned linen.

And in reality, between sky and sea this white streamer, as a decided
talisman, is singular enough. As parting friends greet each other
with their white waving handkerchiefs, and so excite in their bosoms
a mutual feeling--which nothing else could call forth--of love and
affection divided for a while, so here in this simple flag the custom
is consecrated. It is even as if one had fixed a handkerchief on the
mast to proclaim to all the world, "Here comes a friend over the sea."

Revived from time to time with a little wine and bread, to the
annoyance of the captain, who said that I ought to eat what was
bargained for, I was able at last to sit on the deck, and to take part
occasionally in the conversation. Kniep managed to cheer me, for he
could not, this time by boasting of the excellent fare, excite my
energy; on the contrary, he was obliged to extol my good luck in having
no appetite.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Wednesday, April_ 15, 1787.

And thus mid-day passed without our being able, as we wished, to get
into the Bay of Naples. On the contrary, we were continually driven
more and more to the west, and our vessel, nearing the island of
Capri, kept getting further from Cape Minerva. Every one was annoyed
and impatient; we two, however, who could contemplate the world with
a painter's eye, had enough to content us, when the setting sun
presented for our enjoyment the most beautiful prospect that we had
yet witnessed during our whole tour. Cape Minerva, with the mountains
which abut on it, lay before our eyes in the brilliant colouring of
sunset, while the rocks which stretched southwards from the headland,
had already assumed a bluish tint. The whole coast, stretching from
the Cape to Sorrento, was gloriously lit up. Vesuvius was visible; an
immense cloud of smoke stood above it like a tower, and sent out a
long streak southwards--the result, probably, of a violent eruption.
On the left lay Capri, rising perpendicularly in the air; and by the
help of the transparent blue halo, we were able distinctly to trace
the forms of its rocky walls. Beneath a perfectly clear and cloudless
sky glittered the calm, scarcely rippling sea, which at last, when
the wind died away, lay before us exactly like a clear pool. We were
enraptured with the sight. Kniep regretted that all the colours of art
were inadequate to convey an idea of this harmony, and that not even
the finest of English pencils would enable the most practised hand
to give the delicacy of the outline. I, for my part, convinced that
to possess even a far poorer memorial of the scene than this clever
artist could produce, would greatly contribute to my future enjoyment,
exhorted him to strain both his hand and eye for the last time. He
allowed himself to be persuaded, and produced a most accurate drawing
(which he afterwards coloured); and so bequeathed to me a proof, that
to truly artistic powers of delineation, the impossible becomes the
possible. With equally attentive eyes we watched the transition from
evening to night. Capri now lay quite black before us, and, to our
astonishment, the smoke of Vesuvius turned into flame, as, indeed, did
the whole streak, which, the longer we observed it, became brighter
and brighter; at last we saw a considerable region of the atmosphere,
forming, as it were, the back ground of our natural picture, lit
up-and, indeed, lightening.

[Sidenote: The voyage from Messina to Naples.]

We were so entirely occupied with these welcome scenes, that we
did not notice the great danger we were in. However, the commotion
among the passengers did not allow us to continue long in ignorance
of it. Those who were better acquainted with maritime affairs than
ourselves were bitterly reproaching the captain and his steersman. By
their bungling, they said, they had not only missed the mouth of the
strait, but they were very nigh losing the lives of all the passengers
intrusted to them, cargo and all. We inquired into the grounds of
these apprehensions, especially as we could not conceive how, during a
perfect calm, there could be any cause for alarm. But it was this very
calm that rendered these people so inconsolable. "We are," they said,
"in the current which runs round the island, and which, by a slow but
irresistible ground-swell, will draw us against the rugged rocks, where
there is neither the slightest footing, nor the least cove to save
ourselves by.

Made more attentive by these declarations, we contemplated our fate
with horror. For, although the deepening night did not allow us to
distinguish the approach of danger, still we observed that the ship,
as it rolled and pitched, was gradually nearing the rocks, which grew
darker and darker upon the eye, while a light evening glow was still
playing on the water. Not the slightest movement was to be discerned
in the air. Handkerchiefs and light ribbons were constantly being held
up, but not the slightest indication of the much desired breath of wind
was discernible. The tumult became every moment louder and wilder. The
women with their children were on the deck praying, not indeed on their
knees, for there was scarcely room for them to move, but lying close
pressed one upon another. Every now and then, too, they would rate and
scold the captain more harshly and more bitterly than the men, who were
calmer, thinking over every chance of helping and saving the vessel.
They reproached him with everything which, during the passage up to
this point, had been borne with silence--the bad accommodation, the
high passage money, the scanty bill of fare, his own manners--which,
if not absolutely surly, were certainly forbidding enough. He would
not give an account of his proceedings to any one; indeed, ever since
the evening before he had maintained a most obstinate silence as to
his plans, and what he was doing with his vessel. He and the steersman
were called mere money-making adventurers, who having no knowledge at
all of navigation, had managed to buy a packet with a mere view to
profit, and now, by their incapacity and bungling, were on the point
of losing all that had been intrusted to their care. The captain,
however, maintained his usual silence under all these reproaches,
and appeared to be giving all his thoughts to the chances of saving
his ship. As for myself, since I had always felt a greater horror of
anarchy than of death itself, I found it quite impossible to hold my
tongue any longer. I went up to the noisy railers, and, addressed them
with almost as much composure of mind as the rogues of Malsesine. I
represented to them that, by their shrieking and bawling, they must
confound both the ears and the brains of those on whom all at this
moment depended for our safety, so that they could neither think nor
communicate with one another. All that you have to do, I said, is to
calm yourselves, and then to offer up a fervent prayer to the Mother
of God, asking her to intercede with her blessed Son to do for you
what He did for His Apostles when on the lake Tiberias. The waves
broke over the boat while the Lord slept, but Who when, helpless and
inconsolable, they awoke Him, commanded the winds to be still; and
Who, if it is only His heavenly will, can even now command the winds
to rise. These few words had the best effect possible. One of the men
with whom I had previously had some conversation on moral and religious
subjects, exclaimed, "_Ah, il Balarmé! Benedetto il Balarmé!_" and they
actually began, as they were already prostrate on their knees, to go
over their rosaries with more than usual fervour. They were able to
do this with the greater calmness, as the sailors were now trying an
expedient the object of which was, at any rate, apparent to every eye.
The boat (which would not, however, hold more than six or eight men)
was let down and fastened by a long rope to the ship, which, by dint of
hard rowing, they hoped to be able to tow after them. And, indeed, it
was thought that they did move it within the current, and hopes began
to be entertained of soon seeing the vessel towed entirely out of it.
But whether their efforts increased the counteraction of the current,
or whatever it was, the boat with its crew at the end of the hawser
was suddenly drawn in a kind of a bow towards the vessel, forming with
the long rope a kind of bow--or just like the lash of a whip when the
driver makes a blow with it. This plan, therefore, was soon given up.
Prayer now began to alternate with weeping--for our state began to
appear alarming indeed, when from the deck we could clearly distinguish
the voices of the goatherds, (whose fires on the rocks we had long
seen), crying to one another, "There is a vessel stranding below."
They also said something else, but the sounds were unintelligible to
me; those, however, who understood their patois, interpreted them
as exclamations of joy, to think of the rich booty they would reap
in the morning. Thus the doubt which we had entertained whether the
ship was actually nearing the rocks, and in any immediate danger, was
unfortunately too soon dispelled, and we saw the sailors preparing
boat-poles and fenders, in order, should it come to the worst, to be
ready to hold the vessel off the rocks--so long at least as their poles
did not break, in which case all would be inevitably lost. The ship now
rolled more violently than ever, and the breakers seemed to increase
upon us. And my sickness returning upon me in the midst of it all, made
me resolve to return to the cabin. Half stupefied, I threw myself down
on my mattress, still with a somewhat pleasant feeling, which seemed to
me to come over from the Sea of Tiberias, for the picture in Merian's
Pictorial Bible kept floating before my mind's eye. And so it is: our
moral impressions invariably prove strongest in those moments when we
are most driven back upon ourselves. How long I lay in this sort of
half stupor I know not, for I was awakened by a great noise overhead;
I could distinctly make out that it was caused by great ropes being
dragged along the deck, and this gave me a hope that they were going
to make use of the sails. A little while after this Kniep hurried down
into the cabin to tell me that we were out of danger, for a gentle
breeze had sprung up; that all hands had just been at work in hoisting
the sails, and that he himself had not hesitated to lend a hand. We
were visibly getting clear off the rocks; and although not entirely out
of the current, there was now a good hope of our being able to make way
against it. All was now still again overhead, and soon several more of
the passengers came below to announce the happy turn of affairs, and to
lie down.

[Sidenote: The voyage from Messina to Naples.]

When on the fourth day of our voyage, I awoke early in the morning,
I found myself quite fresh and well, just as I had been at the same
period of the passage from Naples; so that on a longer voyage I may
hope to get off free, after paying to the sea a three days' tribute of
sickness.

From the deck I saw with no little delight the island of Capri, at
a tolerable distance on our lee, and perceived that the vessel was
holding such a course as afforded a hope of our being able ere long to
enter the gulf, which, indeed, we very soon afterwards accomplished.
And now, after passing a hard night, we had the satisfaction of seeing
the same objects as had charmed us so greatly the evening before, in a
reversed light. We soon left this dangerous insular rock far behind us.
While yesterday we had admired the right hand coast from a distance,
now we had straight before us the castle and the city, with Posilippo
on the left, together with the tongues of land which run out into the
sea towards Procida and Ischia. Everyone was on deck; foremost among
them was a Greek priest, enthusiastic in the praises of his own dear
East; but who, when the Neapolitans on board, who were rapturously
greeting their glorious country, asked him what he thought of Naples,
as compared with Constantinople? very pathetically replied, "_Anche
questa è una città!_" (This, too, is a city.)

We reached the harbour just at the right time, when it was thronged
with people. Scarcely were our trunks and the rest of our baggage
unshipped and put on shore ere they were seized by two lusty porters,
who, scarcely giving us time to say that we were going to put up at
Moriconi's, ran off with the load as if with a prize, so that we had
difficulty in keeping them in view as they darted through the crowded
streets and bustling piazzas. Kniep kept his portfolio under his arm,
and we consoled ourselves with thinking that the drawings at least
were safe, should these porters, less honest than the poor Neapolitan
devils, strip us of all that even the very breakers had spared.








                               ACT THE FIRST.

                                  SCENE I.
                     _A Grove before the Temple of Diana_.


                    IPHIGENIA.
    Beneath your leafy gloom, ye waving boughs
    Of this old, shady, consecrated grove,
    As in the goddess' silent sanctuary,
    With the same shudd'ring feeling forth I step,
    As when I trod it first, nor ever here
    Doth my unquiet spirit feel at home.
    Long as the mighty will, to which I bow,
    Hath kept me here conceal'd, still, as at first,
    I feel myself a stranger. For the sea
    Doth sever me, alas! from those I love,
    And day by day upon the shore I stand,
    My soul still seeking for the land of Greece.
    But to my sighs, the hollow-sounding waves
    Bring, save their own hoarse murmurs, no reply.
    Alas for him! who friendless and alone,
    Remote from parents and from brethren dwells;
    From him grief snatches every coming joy
    Ere it doth reach his lip. His restless thoughts
    Revert for ever to his father's halls,
    Where first to him the radiant sun unclos'd
    The gates of heav'n; where closer, day by day,
    Brothers and sisters, leagu'd in pastime sweet,
    Around each other twin'd the bonds of love.
    I will not judge the counsel of the gods;
    Yet, truly, woman's lot doth merit pity.
    Man rules alike at home and in the field,
    Nor is in foreign climes without resource;
    Possession gladdens him, him conquest crowns,
    And him an honourable death awaits.
    How circumscrib'd is woman's destiny!
    Obedience to a harsh, imperious lord,
    Her duty, and her comfort; sad her fate,
    Whom hostile fortune drives to lands remote:
    Thus I, by noble Thoas, am detain'd,
    Bound with a heavy, though a sacred chain.
    Oh! with what shame, Diana, I confess
    That with repugnance I perform these rites
    For thee, divine protectress! unto whom
    I would in freedom dedicate my life.
    In thee, Diana, I have always hop'd,
    And still I hope in thee, who didst infold
    Within the holy shelter of thine arm
    The outcast daughter of the mighty king.
    Daughter of Jove! hast thou from ruin'd Troy
    Led back in triumph to his native land
    The mighty man, whom thou didst sore afflict,
    His daughter's life in sacrifice demanding,--
    Hast thou for him, the godlike Agamemnon,
    Who to thine altar led his darling child,
    Preserv'd his wife, Electra, and his son.
    His dearest treasures?--then at length restore
    Thy suppliant also to her friends and home,
    And save her, as thou once from death didst save,
    So now, from living here, a second death.


                                  SCENE II.

                             IPHIGENIA.  ARKAS.


                       ARKAS.
    The king hath sent me hither, and commands
    To hail Diana's priestess. This the day,
    On which for new and wonderful success,
    Tauris her goddess thanks. The king and host
    Draw near,--I come to herald their approach.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    We are prepar'd to give them worthy greeting;
    Our goddess doth behold with gracious eye
    The welcome sacrifice from Thoas' hand.

                       ARKAS.
    Oh, priestess, that thine eye more mildly beam'd,--
    Thou much-rever'd one,--that I found thy glance,
    O consecrated maid, more calm, more bright,
    To all a happy omen! Still doth grief,
    With gloom mysterious, shroud thy inner mind;
    Still, still, through many a year we wait in vain
    For one confiding utt'rance from thy breast.
    Long as I've known thee in this holy place,
    That look of thine hath ever made me shudder;
    And, as with iron bands, thy soul remains
    Lock'd in the deep recesses of thy breast.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    As doth become the exile and the orphan.

                       ARKAS.
    Dost thou then here seem exil'd and an orphan?

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Can foreign scenes our fatherland replace?

                       ARKAS.
    Thy fatherland is foreign now to thee.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Hence is it that my bleeding heart ne'er heals.
    In early youth, when first my soul, in love,
    Held father, mother, brethren fondly twin'd,
    A group of tender germs, in union sweet,
    We sprang in beauty from the parent stem,
    And heavenward grew. An unrelenting curse
    Then seiz'd and sever'd me from those I lov'd,
    And wrench'd with iron grasp the beauteous bands.
    It vanish'd then, the fairest charm of youth,
    The simple gladness of life's early dawn;
    Though sav'd, I was a shadow of myself,
    And life's fresh joyance bloom'd in me no more.

                       ARKAS.
    If thus thou ever dost lament thy fate,
    I must accuse thee of ingratitude.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Thanks have you ever.

                       ARKAS.
                        Not the honest thanks
    Which prompt the heart to offices of love;
    The joyous glance, revealing to the host
    A grateful spirit, with its lot content.
    When thee a deep mysterious destiny
    Brought to this sacred fane, long years ago.
    To greet thee, as a treasure sent from heaven,
    With reverence and affection, Thoas came.
    Benign and friendly was this shore to thee,
    Which had before each stranger's heart appall'd,
    For, till thy coming, none e'er trod our realm
    But fell, according to an ancient rite,
    A bloody victim at Diana's shrine.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Freely to breathe alone is not to live.
    Say, is it life, within this holy fane,
    Like a poor ghost around its sepulchre
    To linger out my days? Or call you that
    A life of conscious happiness and joy,
    When every hour, dream'd listlessly away,
    Leads to those dark and melancholy days,
    Which the sad troop of the departed spend
    In self-forgetfulness on Lethe's shore?
    A useless life is but an early death;
    This, woman's lot, is eminently mine.

                       ARKAS.
    I can forgive, though I must needs deplore,
    The noble pride which underrates itself
    It robs thee of the happiness of life.
    And hast thou, since thy coming here, done nought?
    Who cheer'd the gloomy temper of the king?
    Who hath with gentle eloquence annull'd,
    From year to year, the usage of our sires,
    By which, a victim at Diana's shrine,
    Each stranger perish'd, thus from certain death
    Sending so oft the rescued captive home?
    Hath not Diana, harbouring no revenge
    For this suspension of her bloody rites,
    In richest measure heard thy gentle prayer?
    On joyous pinions o'er the advancing host,
    Doth not triumphant conquest proudly soar?
    And feels not every one a happier lot,
    Since Thoas, who so long hath guided us
    With wisdom and with valour, sway'd by thee,
    The joy of mild benignity approves,
    Which leads him to relax the rigid claims
    Of mute submission? Call thyself useless! Thou,
    Thou, from whose being o'er a thousand hearts,
    A healing balsam flows? when to a race.
    To whom a god consign'd thee, thou dost prove
    A fountain of perpetual happiness,
    And from this dire inhospitable shore
    Dost to the stranger grant a safe return?

                     IPHIGENIA.
    The little done doth vanish to the mind,
    Which forward sees how much remains to do.

                       ARKAS.
    Him dost thou praise, who underrates his deeds?

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Who estimates his deeds is justly blam'd.

                       ARKAS.
    We blame alike, who proudly disregard
    Their genuine merit, and who vainly prize
    Their spurious worth too highly. Trust me, priestess,
    And hearken to the counsel of a man
    With honest zeal devoted to thy service:
    When Thoas comes to-day to speak with thee,
    Lend to his purpos'd words a gracious ear.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    The well-intention'd counsel troubles me:
    His offer studiously I've sought to shun.

                       ARKAS.
    Thy duty and thy interest calmly weigh.
    Since the king lost his son, he trusts but few,
    Nor those as formerly. Each noble's son
    He views with jealous eye as his successor;
    He dreads a solitary, helpless age,
    Or rash rebellion, or untimely death.
    A Scythian studies not the rules of speech,
    And least of all the king. He who is used
    To act and to command, knows not the art,
    From far, with subtle tact, to guide discourse
    Through many windings to its destin'd goal.
    Do not embarrass him with shy reserve
    And studied misconception: graciously,
    And with submission, meet the royal wish.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Shall I then speed the doom that threatens me?

                       ARKAS.
    His gracious offer canst thou call a threat?

                     IPHIGENIA.
    'Tis the most terrible of all to me.

                       ARKAS.
    For his affection grant him confidence.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    If he will first redeem my soul from fear.

                       ARKAS.
    Why dost thou hide from him thy origin?

                     IPHIGENIA.
    A priestess secrecy doth well become.

                       ARKAS.
    Nought to our monarch should a secret be;
    And, though he doth not seek to fathom thine,
    His noble nature feels, ay, deeply feels,
    That studiously thou hid'st thyself from him.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Displeasure doth he harbour 'gainst me, then?

                       ARKAS.
    Almost it seems so. True, he speaks not of thee.
    But casual words have taught me that the wish
    To call thee his hath firmly seiz'd his soul;
    Oh, do not leave the monarch to himself!
    Lest his displeasure, rip'ning in his breast,
    Should work thee woe, so with repentance thou
    Too late my faithful counsel shalt recall.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    How! doth the monarch purpose what no man
    Of noble mind, who loves his honest name,
    Whose bosom reverence for the gods restrains,
    Would ever think of? Will he force employ
    To tear me from this consecrated fane?
    Then will I call the gods, and chiefly thee,
    Diana, goddess resolute, to aid me;
    Thyself a virgin, thou'lt a virgin shield,
    And succour to thy priestess gladly yield.

                       ARKAS.
    Be tranquil! Passion, and youth's fiery blood
    Impel not Thoas rashly to commit
    A deed so lawless. In his present mood,
    I fear from him another harsh resolve,
    Which (for his soul is steadfast and unmov'd,)
    He then will execute without delay.
    Therefore I pray thee, canst thou grant no more,
    At least be grateful--give thy confidence.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Oh tell me what is further known to thee.

                       ARKAS.
    Learn it from him. I see the king approach;
    Thou honour'st him, and thy own heart will prompt thee
    To meet him kindly and with confidence.
    A noble man by woman's gentle word
    May oft be led.

                     IPHIGENIA, _alone_.
                         I see not how I can
    Follow the counsel of my faithful friend.
    But willingly the duty I perform
    Of giving thanks for benefits receiv'd,
    And much I wish that to the king my lips
    With truth could utter what would please his ear.


                                SCENE III.

                           IPHIGENIA.   THOAS.


                     IPHIGENIA.
    Her royal gifts the goddess shower on thee!
    Imparting conquest, wealth, and high renown,
    Dominion, and the welfare of thy house,
    With the fulfilment of each pious wish,
    That thou, who over numbers rul'st supreme,
    Thyself may'st be supreme in happiness!

                       THOAS.
    Contented were I with my people's praise;
    My conquests others more than I enjoy.
    Oh! be he king or subject, he's most blest,
    Who in his home finds happiness and peace.
    Thou shar'dst my sorrow, when a hostile sword
    Tore from my side my last, my dearest son;
    Long as fierce vengeance occupied my heart,
    I did not feel my dwelling's dreary void;
    But now, returning home, my rage appeas'd,
    My foes defeated, and my son aveng'd,
    I find there nothing left to comfort me.
    The glad obedience, which I used to see
    Kindling in every eye, is smother'd now
    In discontent and gloom; each, pond'ring, weighs
    The changes which a future day may bring,
    And serves the childless king, because compell'd.
    To-day I come within this sacred fane,
    Which I have often enter'd to implore
    And thank the gods for conquest. In my breast
    I bear an old and fondly-cherish'd wish.
    To which methinks thou canst not be a stranger;
    Thee, maid, a blessing to myself and realm,
    I hope, as bride, to carry to my home.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Too great thine offer, king, to one unknown;
    Abash'd the fugitive before thee stands,
    Who on this shore sought only what thou gav'st,
    Safety and peace.

                       THOAS.
                Thus still to shroud thyself
    From me, as from the lowest, in the veil
    Of mystery which wrapp'd thy coming here,
    Would in no country be deem'd just or right.
    Strangers this shore appall'd; 'twas so ordain'd
    Alike by law and stern necessity.
    From thee alone--a kindly welcom'd guest,
    Who hast enjoy'd each hallow'd privilege,
    And spent thy days in freedom unrestrain'd--
    From thee I hop'd that confidence to gain
    Which every faithful host may justly claim.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    If I conceal'd, O king, my name, my race,
    'Twas fear that prompted me, and not mistrust.
    For didst thou know who stands before thee now,
    And what accursed head thy arm protects,
    A shudd'ring horror would possess thy heart;
    And, far from wishing me to share thy throne,
    Thou, ere the time appointed, from thy realm
    Wouldst banish me perchance, and thrust me forth,
    Before a glad reunion with my friends
    And period to my wand'rings is ordain'd,
    To meet that sorrow, which in every clime,
    With cold, inhospitable, fearful hand,
    Awaits the outcast, exil'd from his home.

                       THOAS.
    Whate'er respecting thee the gods decree,
    Whate'er their doom for thee and for thy house,
    Since thou hast dwelt amongst us, and enjoy'd
    The privilege the pious stranger claims,
    To me hath fail'd no blessing sent from Heaven;
    And to persuade me, that protecting thee
    I shield a guilty head, were hard indeed.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Thy bounty, not the guest, draws blessings down.

                       THOAS.
    The kindness shown the wicked is not blest.
    End then thy silence, priestess; not unjust
    Is he who doth demand it. In my hands
    The goddess plac'd thee; thou hast been to me
    As sacred as to her, and her behest
    Shall for the future also be my law.
    If thou canst hope in safety to return
    Back to thy kindred, I renounce my claims:
    But is thy homeward path for ever clos'd--
    Or doth thy race in hopeless exile rove,
    Or lie extinguish'd by some mighty woe--
    Then may I claim thee by more laws than one.
    Speak openly, thou know'st I keep my word.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Its ancient bands reluctantly my tongue
    Doth loose, a long-hid secret to divulge;
    For once imparted, it resumes no more
    The safe asylum of the inmost heart,
    But thenceforth, as the powers above decree,
    Doth work its ministry of weal or woe.
    Attend! I issue from the Titan's race.

                       THOAS.
    A word momentous calmly hast thou spoken.
    Him nam'st thou ancestor whom all the world
    Knows as a sometime favourite of the gods?
    Is it that Tantalus, whom Jove himself
    Drew to his council and his social board?
    On whose experienc'd words, with wisdom fraught,
    As on the language of an oracle,
    E'en gods delighted hung?

                     IPHIGENIA.
                               'Tis even he;
    But gods should not hold intercourse with men
    As with themselves. Too weak the human race,
    Not to grow dizzy on unwonted heights.
    Ignoble was he not, and no betrayer;
    To be the Thunderer's slave, he was too great:
    To be his friend and comrade,--but a man.
    His crime was human, and their doom severe;
    For poets sing, that treachery and pride
    Did from Jove's table hurl him headlong down,
    To grovel in the depths of Tartarus.
    Alas, and his whole race their hate pursues.

                       THOAS.
    Bear they their own guilt, or their ancestors'?

                     IPHIGENIA.
    The Titan's mighty breast and nervous frame
    Was his descendant's certain heritage;
    But round their brow Jove forg'd a band of brass.
    Wisdom and patience, prudence and restraint,
    He from their gloomy, fearful eye conceal'd;
    In them each passion grew to savage rage,
    And headlong rush'd uncheck'd. The Titan's son,
    The strong-will'd Pelops, won his beauteous bride,
    Hippodamia, child of Œnomaus,
    Through treachery and murder; she ere long
    Bore him two children, Atreus and Thyestes;
    With envy they beheld the growing love
    Their father cherish'd for a first-born son
    Sprung from another union. Bound by hate,
    In secret they contrive their brother's death.
    The sire, the crime imputing to his wife,
    With savage fury claim'd from her his child,
    And she in terror did destroy herself--

                       THOAS.
    Thou'rt silent? Pause not in thy narrative!
    Do not repent thy confidence--say on!

                     IPHIGENIA.
    How blest is he who his progenitors
    With pride remembers, to the list'ner tells
    The story of their greatness, of their deeds,
    And, silently rejoicing, sees himself
    Link'd to this goodly chain! For the same stock
    Bears not the monster and the demigod:
    A line, or good or evil, ushers in
    The glory or the terror of the world.--
    After the death of Pelops, his two sons
    Rul'd o'er the city with divided sway.
    But such an union could not long endure.
    His brother's honour first Thyestes wounds.
    In vengeance Atreus drove him from the realm.
    Thyestes, planning horrors, long before
    Had stealthily procur'd his brother's son,
    Whom he in secret nurtur'd as his own.
    Revenge and fury in his breast he pour'd,
    Then to the royal city sent him forth,
    That in his uncle he might slay his sire,
    The meditated murder was disclos'd,
    And by the king most cruelly aveng'd,
    Who slaughter'd, as he thought, his brother's son.
    Too late he learn'd whose dying tortures met
    His drunken gaze; and seeking to assuage
    The insatiate vengeance that possess'd his soul,
    He plann'd a deed unheard of. He assum'd
    A friendly tone, seem'd reconcil'd, appeas'd.
    And lur'd his brother, with his children twain,
    Back to his kingdom; these he seiz'd and slew;
    Then plac'd the loathsome and abhorrent food
    At his first meal before the unconscious sire.
    And when Thyestes had his hunger still'd
    With his own flesh, a sadness seiz'd his soul;
    He for his children ask'd,--their steps, their voice,
    Fancied he heard already at the door;
    And Atreus, grinning with malicious joy,
    Threw in the members of the slaughter'd boys.--
    Shudd'ring, O king, thou dost avert thy face:
    So did the sun his radiant visage hide,
    And swerve his chariot from the eternal path.
    These, monarch, are thy priestess' ancestors,
    And many a dreadful fate of mortal doom,
    And many a deed of the bewilder'd brain,
    Dark night doth cover with her sable wing,
    Or shroud in gloomy twilight.

                       THOAS.
                                    Hidden there
    Let them abide. A truce to horror now,
    And tell me by what miracle thou sprang'st
    From race so savage.

                     IPHIGENIA.
                               Atreus' eldest son
    Was Agamemnon; he, O king, my sire:
    But I may say with truth, that, from a child,
    In him the model of a perfect man
    I witness'd ever. Clytemnestra bore
    To him, myself, the firstling of their love,
    Electra then. Peaceful the monarch rul'd,
    And to the house of Tantalus was given
    A long-withheld repose. A son alone
    Was wanting to complete my parent's bliss;
    Scarce was this wish fulfill'd, and young Orestes,
    The household's darling, with his sisters grew,
    When new misfortunes vex'd our ancient house.
    To you hath come the rumour of the war,
    Which, to avenge the fairest woman's wrongs,
    The force united of the Grecian kings
    Round Ilion's walls encamp'd. Whether the town
    Was humbl'd, and achiev'd their great revenge
    I have not heard. My father led the host
    In Aulis vainly for a favouring gale
    They waited; for, enrag'd against their chief,
    Diana stay'd their progress, and requir'd,
    Through Calchas' voice, the monarch's eldest daughter.
    They lur'd me with my mother to the camp,
    And at Diana's altar doom'd this head.--
    She was appeas'd, she did not wish my blood,
    And wrapt me in a soft protecting cloud;
    Within this temple from the dream of death
    I waken'd first. Yes, I myself am she;
    Iphigenia,--I who speak to thee
    Am Atreus' grandchild, Agamemnon's child,
    And great Diana's consecrated priestess.

                       THOAS.
    I yield no higher honour or regard
    To the king's daughter than the maid unknown;
    Once more my first proposal I repeat;
    Come, follow me, and share what I possess.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    How dare I venture such a step, O king?
    Hath not the goddess who protected me
    Alone a right to my devoted head?
    'Twas she who chose for me this sanctuary,
    Where she perchance reserves me for my sire,
    By my apparent death enough chastis'd,
    To be the joy and solace of his age.
    Perchance my glad return is near; and how
    If I, unmindful of her purposes,
    Had here attach'd myself against her will?
    I ask'd a signal, did she wish my stay.

                       THOAS.
    The signal is that still thou tarriest here.
    Seek not evasively such vain pretexts.
    Not many words are needed to refuse,
    By the refus'd the _no_ alone is heard.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Mine are not words meant only to deceive;
    I have to thee my inmost heart reveal'd.
    And doth no inward voice suggest to thee,
    How I with yearning soul must pine to see
    My father, mother, and my long-lost home?
    Oh let thy vessels bear me thither, king!
    That in the ancient halls, where sorrow still
    In accents low doth fondly breathe my name,
    Joy, as in welcome of a new-born child,
    May round the columns twine the fairest wreath.
    Thou wouldst to me and mine new life impart.

                       THOAS.
    Then go! the promptings of thy heart obey;
    Despise the voice of reason and good counsel.
    Be quite the woman, sway'd by each desire,
    That bridleless impels her to and fro.
    When passion rages fiercely in her breast,
    No sacred tie withholds her from the wretch
    Who would allure her to forsake for him
    A husband's or a father's guardian arms;
    Extinct within her heart its fiery glow,
    The golden tongue of eloquence in vain
    With words of truth and power assails her ear.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Remember now, O king, thy noble words!
    My trust and candour wilt thou thus repay?
    Thou seem'dst, methought, prepar'd to hear the truth.

                       THOAS.
    For this unlook'd-for answer not prepar'd.
    Yet 'twas to be expected; knew I not
    That 'twas with woman I had now to deal?

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Upbraid not thus, O king, our feeble sex!
    Though not in dignity to match with yours,
    The weapons woman wields are not ignoble.
    And trust me, Thoas, in thy happiness
    I have a deeper insight than thyself.
    Thou thinkest, ignorant alike of both,
    A closer union would augment our bliss;
    Inspir'd with confidence and honest zeal
    Thou strongly urgest me to yield consent;
    And here I thank the gods, who give me strength
    To shun a doom unratified by them.

                       THOAS.
    'Tis not a god, 'tis thine own heart that speaks.


                     IPHIGENIA.
    'Tis through the heart alone they speak to us.

                       THOAS.
    To hear them have I not an equal right?

                     IPHIGENIA.
    The raging tempest drowns the still, small voice.

                       THOAS.
    This voice no doubt the priestess hears alone.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Before all others should the prince attend it.

                       THOAS.
    Thy sacred office, and ancestral right
    To Jove's own table, place thee with the gods
    In closer union than an earth-born savage.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Thus must I now the confidence atone
    Thyself extorted from me!

                       THOAS.
                         I'm a man,
    And better 'tis we end this conference.
    Hear then my last resolve. Be priestess still
    Of the great goddess who selected thee;
    And may she pardon me, that I from her,
    Unjustly and with secret self-reproach,
    Her ancient sacrifice so long withheld.
    From olden times no stranger near'd our shore
    But fell a victim at her sacred shrine.
    But thou, with kind affection (which at times
    Seem'd like a gentle daughter's tender love,
    At times assum'd to my enraptur'd heart
    The modest inclination of a bride),
    Didst so inthral me, as with magic bonds,
    That I forgot my duty. Thou didst rock
    My senses in a dream: I did not hear
    My people's murmurs: now they cry aloud,
    Ascribing my poor son's untimely death
    To this my guilt. No longer for thy sake
    Will I oppose the wishes of the crowd,
    Who urgently demand the sacrifice.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    For mine own sake I ne'er desired it from thee.
    Who to the gods ascribe a thirst for blood
    Do misconceive their nature, and impute
    To them their own inhuman dark desires.
    Did not Diana snatch me from the priest,
    Preferring my poor service to my death?

                       THOAS.
    'Tis not for us, on reason's shifting grounds,
    Lightly to guide and construe rites divine.
    Perform thy duty; I'll accomplish mine.
    Two strangers, whom in caverns of the shore
    We found conceal'd, and whose arrival here
    Bodes to my realm no good, are in my power.
    With them thy goddess may once more resume
    Her ancient, pious, long-suspended rites!
    I send them here,--thy duty not unknown.    [_Exit._

                     IPHIGENIA, _alone_.
        Gracious protectress! thou hast clouds
        To shelter innocence distress'd,
        And genial gales from Fate's rude grasp,
        Safely to waft her o'er the sea,
        O'er the wide earth's remotest realms,
        Where'er it seemeth good to thee.
        Wise art thou,--thine all-seeing eye
        The future and the past surveys,
        And doth on all thy children rest,
        E'en as thy pure and guardian light
        Keeps o'er the earth its silent watch,
        The beauty and the life of night.
        O Goddess! keep my hands from blood!
        Blessing it never brings, nor peace;
        And still in evil hours the form
        Of the chance-murder'd man appears
        To fill the unwilling murderer's soul
        With horrible and gloomy fears.
        For fondly the Immortals view
        Man's widely-scatter'd, simple race;
        And the poor mortal's transient life
        Gladly prolong, that he may raise
        Awhile to their eternal heavens
        His sympathetic joyous gaze.




                              ACT THE SECOND.

                                  SCENE I.

                            ORESTES.    PYLADES.


                      ORESTES.
    It is the path of death that now we tread:
    At every step my soul grows more serene.
    When I implor'd Apollo to remove
    The grisly band of Furies from my side,
    He seem'd, with hope-inspiring, godlike words,
    To promise aid and safety in the fane
    Of his lov'd sister, who o'er Tauris rules.
    Thus the prophetic word fulfils itself,
    That with my life shall terminate my woe.
    How easy 'tis for me, whose heart is crush'd,
    Whose sense is deaden'd by a hand divine,
    Thus to renounce the beauteous light of day!
    And must the son of Atreus not entwine
    The wreath of conquest round his dying brow--
    Must I, as my forefathers, as my sire,
    Bleed like a victim,--an ignoble death--
    So be it! Better at the altar here,
    Than in a nook obscure, where kindred hands
    Have spread assassination's wily net.
    Yield me this brief repose, infernal Powers!
    Ye, who, like loosen'd hounds, still scent the blood,
    Which, trickling from my feet, betrays my path.
    Leave me! ere long I come to you below.
    Nor you, nor I, should view the light of day.
    The soft green carpet of the beauteous earth
    Is no arena for unhallow'd fiends.
    Below I seek you, where an equal fate
    Binds all in murky, never-ending night.
    Thee only, thee, my Pylades, my friend,
    The guiltless partner of my crime and curse,
    Thee am I loath, before thy time, to take
    To yonder cheerless shore! Thy life or death
    Alone awakens in me hope or fear.

                      PYLADES.
    Like thee, Orestes, I am not prepar'd
    Downwards to wander to yon realm of shade.
    I purpose still, through the entangl'd paths,
    Which seem as they would lead to blackest night,
    Again to guide our upward way to life.
    Of death I think not; I observe and mark
    Whether the gods may not perchance present
    Means and fit moment for a joyful flight.
    Dreaded or not, the stroke of death must come;
    And though the priestess stood with hand uprais'd,
    Prepar'd to cut our consecrated locks,
    Our safety still should be my only thought:
    Uplift thy soul above this weak despair;
    Desponding doubts but hasten on our peril.
    Apollo pledg'd to us his sacred word,
    That in his sister's holy fane for thee
    Were comfort, aid, and glad return prepar'd.
    The words of Heaven are not equivocal,
    As in despair the poor oppress'd one thinks.

                     ORESTES.
    The mystic web of life my mother spread
    Around my infant head, and so I grew,
    An image of my sire; and my mute look
    Was aye a bitter and a keen reproof
    To her and base Ægisthus[1]. Oh, how oft,
    When silently within our gloomy hall
    Electra sat, and mus'd beside the fire,
    Have I with anguish'd spirit climb'd her knee,
    And watch'd her bitter tears with sad amaze!
    Then would she tell me of our noble sire:
    How much I long'd to see him--be with him!
    Myself at Troy one moment fondly wish'd,
    My sire's return, the next. The day arrived--

    (Transcriber's Note 1: Original text read "Egisthus".)

                      PYLADES.
    Oh, of that awful hour let fiends of hell
    Hold nightly converse! Of a time more fair
    May the remembrance animate our hearts
    To fresh heroic deeds. The gods require
    On this wide earth the service of the good,
    To work their pleasure. Still they count on thee;
    For in thy father's train they sent thee not,
    When he to Orcus went unwilling down.

                      ORESTES.
    Would I had seiz'd the border of his robe.
    And follow'd him!

                      PYLADES.
                              They kindly car'd for me
    Who here detain'd thee; for if thou hadst died
    I know not what had then become of me;
    Since I with thee, and for thy sake alone,
    Have from my childhood liv'd, and wish to live.

                      ORESTES.
    Do not remind me of those tranquil days,
    When me thy home a safe asylum gave;
    With fond solicitude thy noble sire
    The half-nipp'd, tender flow'ret gently rear'd;
    While thou, a friend and playmate always gay,
    Like to a light and brilliant butterfly
    Around a dusky flower, didst around me
    Still with new life thy merry gambols play,
    And breathe thy joyous spirit in my soul,
    Until, my cares forgetting, I with thee
    Was lur'd to snatch the eager joys of youth.

                      PYLADES.
    My very life began when thee I lov'd.

                      ORESTES.
    Say, then thy woes began, and thou speak'st truly.
    This is the sharpest sorrow of my lot,
    That, like a plague-infected wretch, I bear
    Death and destruction hid within my breast;
    That, where I tread, e'en on the healthiest spot,
    Ere long the blooming faces round betray
    The writhing features of a ling'ring death.

                      PYLADES.
    Were thy breath venom, I had been the first
    To die that death, Orestes. Am I not,
    As ever, full of courage and of joy?
    And love and courage are the spirit's wings
    Wafting to noble actions.

                      ORESTES.
                                   Noble actions?
    Time was, when fancy painted such before us!
    When oft, the game pursuing, on we roam'd
    O'er hill and valley; hoping that ere long
    With club and weapon arm'd, we so might track
    The robber to his den, or monster huge.
    And then at twilight, by the glassy sea,
    We peaceful sat, reclin'd against each other
    The waves came dancing to our very feet.
    And all before us lay the wide, wide world.
    Then on a sudden one would seize his sword,
    And future deeds shone round us like the stars,
    Which gemm'd in countless throngs the vault of night.

                      PYLADES.
    Endless, my friend, the projects which the soul
    Burns to accomplish. We would every deed
    At once perform as grandly as it shows
    After long ages, when from land to land
    The poet's swelling song hath roll'd it on.
    It sounds so lovely what our fathers did,
    When, in the silent evening shade reclin'd,
    We drink it in with music's melting tones;
    And what we do is, as their deeds to them,
    Toilsome and incomplete!
    Thus we pursue what always flies before;
    We disregard the path in which we tread,
    Scarce see around the footsteps of our sires,
    Or heed the trace of their career on earth.
    We ever hasten on to chase their shades,
    Which godlike, at a distance far remote,
    On golden clouds reclin'd, the mountains crown.
    The man I prize not who esteems himself
    Just as the people's breath may chance to raise him.
    But thou, Orestes, to the gods give thanks,
    That they have done so much through thee already.

                      ORESTES.
    When they ordain a man to noble deeds,
    To shield from dire calamity his friends,
    Extend his empire, or protect its bounds,
    Or put to flight its ancient enemies,
    Let him be grateful! For to him a god
    Imparts the first, the sweetest joy of life.
    Me have they doom'd to be a slaughterer,
    To be an honour'd mother's murderer,
    And shamefully a deed of shame avenging.
    Me through their own decree they have o'erwhelm'd.
    Trust me, the race of Tantalus is doom'd;
    Nor may his last descendant leave the earth,
    Or crown'd with honour or unstain'd by crime.

                      PYLADES.
    The gods avenge not on the son the deeds
    Done by the father. Each, or good or bad,
    Of his own actions reaps the due reward.
    The parents' blessing, not their curse, descends.

                      ORESTES.
    Methinks their blessing did not lead us here.

                      PYLADES.
    It was at least the mighty gods' decree.

                      ORESTES.
    Then is it their decree which doth destroy us.

                      PYLADES.
    Perform what they command, and wait the event.
    Do thou Apollo's sister bear from hence,
    That they at Delphi may united dwell,
    Rever'd and honour'd by a noble race:
    Thee, for this deed, the heav'nly pair will view
    With gracious eye, and from the hateful grasp
    Of the infernal Powers will rescue thee.
    E'en now none dares intrude within this grove.

                      ORESTES.
    So shall I die at least a peaceful death.

                      PYLADES.
    Far other are my thoughts, and not unskill'd
    Have I the future and the past combin'd
    In quiet meditation. Long, perchance,
    Hath ripen'd in the counsel of the gods
    The great event. Diana wish'd to leave
    This savage region foul with human blood.
    We were selected for the high emprize;
    To us it is assign'd, and strangely thus
    We are conducted to the threshold here.

                      ORESTES.
    My friend, with wondrous skill thou link'st thy wish
    With the predestin'd purpose of the gods.

                      PYLADES.
    Of what avail is prudence, if it fail
    Heedful to mark the purposes of Heaven?
    A noble man, who much hath sinn'd, some god
    Doth summon to a dangerous enterprize,
    Which to achieve appears impossible.
    The hero conquers, and atoning serves
    Mortals and gods, who thenceforth honour him.

                      ORESTES.
    Am I foredoom'd to action and to life,
    Would that a god from my distemper'd brain
    Might chase this dizzy fever, which impels
    My restless steps along a slipp'ry path,
    Stain'd with a mother's blood, to direful death;
    And pitying, dry the fountain, whence the blood,
    For ever spouting from a mother's wounds,
    Eternally defiles me!

                      PYLADES.
                                   Wait in peace!
    Thou dost increase the evil, and dost take
    The office of the Furies on thyself.
    Let me contrive,--be still! And when at length
    The time for action claims our powers combin'd,
    Then will I summon thee, and on we'll stride,
    With cautious boldness to achieve the event.

                      ORESTES.
    I hear Ulysses speak!

                      PYLADES.
                                  Nay, mock me not.
    Each must select the hero after whom
    To climb the steep and difficult ascent
    Of high Olympus. And to me it seems
    That him nor stratagem nor art defile
    Who consecrates himself to noble deeds.

                      ORESTES.
    I most esteem the brave and upright man.

                      PYLADES.
    And therefore have I not desir'd thy counsel.
    One step is ta'en already: from our guards
    I have extorted this intelligence.
    A strange and godlike woman now restrains
    The execution of that bloody law:
    Incense, and prayer, and an unsullied heart,
    These are the gifts she offers to the gods.
    Her fame is widely spread, and it is thought
    That from the race of Amazon she springs,
    And hither fled some great calamity.

                      ORESTES.
    Her gentle sway, it seems, lost all its power
    At the approach of one so criminal,
    Whom the dire curse enshrouds in gloomy night.
    Our doom to seal, the pious thirst for blood
    Again unchains the ancient cruel rite:
    The monarch's savage will decrees our death;
    A woman cannot save when he condemns.

                      PYLADES.
    That 'tis a woman is a ground for hope!
    A man, the very best, with cruelty
    At length may so familiarize his mind,
    His character through custom so transform,
    That he shall come to make himself a law
    Of what at first his very soul abhorr'd.
    But woman doth retain the stamp of mind
    She first assum'd. On her we may depend
    In good or evil with more certainty.
    She comes; leave us alone. I dare not tell
    At once our names, nor unreserv'd confide
    Our fortunes to her. Now retire awhile,
    And ere she speaks with thee we'll meet again.


                                SCENE II.

                          IPHIGENIA.   PYLADES.


                      IPHIGENIA.
    Whence art thou? Stranger, speak! To me thy bearing
    Stamps thee of Grecian, not of Scythian race.
                              (_She unbinds his chains._)
    The freedom that I give is dangerous:
    The gods avert the doom that threatens you!

                      PYLADES.
    Delicious music! dearly welcome tones
    Of our own language in a foreign land!
    With joy my captive eye once more beholds
    The azure mountains of my native coast.
    Oh, let this joy that I too am a Greek
    Convince thee, priestess! How I need thine aid,
    A moment I forget, my spirit wrapt
    In contemplation of so fair a vision.
    If fate's dread mandate doth not seal thy lips.
    From which of our illustrious races, say,
    Dost thou thy godlike origin derive?

                     IPHIGENIA.
    A priestess, by the Goddess' self ordain'd
    And consecrated too, doth speak with thee.
    Let that suffice: but tell me, who art thou,
    And what unbless'd o'erruling destiny
    Hath hither led thee with thy friend?

                      PYLADES.
                                           The woe,
    Whose hateful presence ever dogs our steps,
    I can with ease relate. Oh, would that thou
    Couldst with like ease, divine one, shed on us
    One ray of cheering hope! We are from Crete,
    Adrastus' sons, and I, the youngest born,
    Named Cephalus; my eldest brother, he,
    Laodamus. Between us two a youth
    Of savage temper grew, who oft disturb'd
    The joy and concord of our youthful sports.
    Long as our father led his powers at Troy,
    Passive our mother's mandate we obey'd;
    But when, enrich'd with booty, he return'd,
    And shortly after died, a contest fierce
    For the succession and their father's wealth,
    Parted the brothers. I the eldest joined;
    He slew the second; and the Furies hence
    For kindred murder dog his restless steps.
    But to this savage shore the Delphian god
    Hath sent us, cheer'd by hope, commanding us
    Within his sister's temple to await
    The blessed hand of aid. We have been ta'en,
    Brought hither, and now stand for sacrifice.
    My tale is told.

                     IPHIGENIA
                        Tell me, is Troy o'erthrown?
    Assure me of its fall.

                      PYLADES.
                                    It lies in ruins.
    But oh, ensure deliverance to us!
    Hasten, I pray, the promis'd aid of heav'n.
    Pity my brother, say a kindly word;
    But I implore thee, spare him when thou speakest.
    Too easily his inner mind is torn
    By joy, or grief, or cruel memory.
    A feverish madness oft doth seize on him,
    Yielding his spirit, beautiful and free,
    A prey to furies.

                     IPHIGENIA.
                            Great as is thy woe,
    Forget it, I conjure thee, for a while,
    Till I am satisfied.

                      PYLADES.
                              The stately town,
    Which ten long years withstood the Grecian host,
    Now lies in ruins, ne'er to rise again;
    Yet many a hero's grave will oft recall
    Our sad remembrance to that barbarous shore;
    There lies Achilles and his noble friend.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    And are ye, godlike forms, reduc'd to dust!


                      PYLADES.
    Nor Palamede, nor Ajax, ere again
    The daylight of their native land behold.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    He speaks not of my father, doth not name
    Him with the fallen. He may yet survive!
    I may behold him! still hope on, my heart!

                      PYLADES.
    Yet happy are the thousands who receiv'd
    Their bitter death-blow from a hostile hand!
    For terror wild, and end most tragical,
    Some hostile, angry, deity prepar'd,
    Instead of triumph, for the home-returning.
    Do human voices never reach this shore?
    Far as their sound extends, they bear the fame
    Of deeds unparallel'd. And is the woe
    Which fills Mycene's halls with ceaseless sighs
    To thee a secret still?--And know'st thou not
    That Clytemnestra, with Ægisthus' aid,
    Her royal consort artfully ensnar'd,
    And murder'd on the day of his return?--
    The monarch's house thou honourest! I perceive
    Thy heaving bosom vainly doth contend
    With tidings fraught with such unlook'd-for woe
    Art thou the daughter of a friend? or born
    Within the circuit of Mycene's walls?
    Do not conceal it, nor avenge on me
    That here the horrid crime I first announc'd.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Proceed, and tell me how the deed was done.

                      PYLADES.
    The day of his return, as from the bath
    Arose the monarch, tranquil and refresh'd.
    His robe demanding from his consort's hand,
    A tangl'd garment, complicate with folds.
    She o'er his shoulders flung and noble head;
    And when, as from a net, he vainly strove
    To extricate himself, the traitor, base
    Ægisthus, smote him, and envelop'd thus
    Great Agamemnon sought the shades below.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    And what reward receiv'd the base accomplice?

                      PYLADES.
    A queen and kingdom he possess'd already.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Base passion prompted, then, the deed of shame?

                      PYLADES.
    And feelings, cherish'd long, of deep revenge.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    How had the monarch injured Clytemnestra?

                      PYLADES.
    By such a dreadful deed, that if on earth
    Aught could exculpate murder, it were this.
    To Aulis he allur'd her, when the fleet
    With unpropitious winds the goddess stay'd;
    And there, a victim at Diana's shrine,
    The monarch, for the welfare of the Greeks,
    Her eldest daughter doom'd. And this, 'tis said,
    Planted such deep abhorrence in her heart,
    That to Ægisthus she resign'd herself,
    And round her husband flung the web of death.

                     IPHIGENIA. (_veiling herself_).
    It is enough! Thou wilt again behold me.

                      PYLADES, _alone_.
    The fortune of this royal house, it seems,
    Doth move her deeply. Whosoe'er she be,
    She must herself have known the monarch well;--
    For our good fortune, from a noble house,
    She hath been sold to bondage. Peace, my heart!
    And let us steer our course with prudent zeal
    Toward the star of hope which gleams upon us.




                              ACT THE THIRD.

                                 SCENE I.

                         IPHIGENIA.      ORESTES.


                     IPHIGENIA.
    Unhappy man, I only loose thy bonds
    In token of a still severer doom.
    The freedom which the sanctuary imparts,
    Like the last life-gleam o'er the dying face,
    But heralds death. I cannot, dare not say
    Your doom is hopeless; for, with murd'rous hand,
    Could I inflict the fatal blow myself?
    And while I here am priestess of Diana,
    None, be he who he may, dare touch your heads.
    But the incensed king, should I refuse
    Compliance with the rites himself enjoin'd,
    Will choose another virgin from my train
    As my successor. Then, alas! with nought,
    Save ardent wishes, can I succour you,
    Much honour'd countryman! The humblest slave,
    Who had but near'd our sacred household hearth,
    Is dearly welcome in a foreign land;
    How with proportion'd joy and blessing, then,
    Shall I receive the man who doth recall
    The image of the heroes, whom I learn'd
    To honour from my parents, and who cheers
    My inmost heart with flatt'ring gleams of hope!

                      ORESTES.
    Does prudent forethought prompt thee to conceal
    Thy name and race? or may I hope to know
    Who, like a heavenly vision, meets me thus?

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Yes, thou shalt know me. Now conclude the tale
    Of which thy brother only told me half:
    Relate their end, who coming home from Troy,
    On their own threshold met a doom severe
    And most unlook'd for. I, though but a child
    When first conducted hither, well recall
    The timid glance of wonder which I cast
    On those heroic forms.  When they went forth,
    it seem'd as though Olympus from her womb
    Had cast the heroes of a by-gone world,
    To frighten Ilion; and, above them all,
    Great Agamemnon tower'd pre-eminent!
    Oh tell me! Fell the hero in his home,
    Though Clytemnestra's and Ægisthus' wiles?

                      ORESTES.
    He fell!

                     IPHIGENIA.
                   Unblest Mycene! Thus the sons
    Of Tantalus, with barbarous hands, have sown
    Curse upon curse; and, as the shaken weed
    Scatters around a thousand poison-seeds,
    So they assassins ceaseless generate,
    Their children's children ruthless to destroy.--
    Now tell the remnant of thy brother's tale,
    Which horror darkly hid from me before.
    How did the last descendant of the race,--
    The gentle child, to whom the Gods assign'd
    The office of avenger,--how did he
    Escape that day of blood? Did equal fate
    Around Orestes throw Avernus' net?
    Say, was he saved? and is he still alive?
    And lives Electra, too?

                      ORESTES.
    They both survive.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Golden Apollo, lend thy choicest beams!
    Lay them an offering at the throne of Jove!
    For I am poor and dumb.

                      ORESTES.
                           If social bonds
    Or ties more close connect thee with this house,
    As this thy joy evinces, rein thy heart;
    For insupportable the sudden plunge
    From happiness to sorrow's gloomy depth.
    As yet thou only know'st the hero's death.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    And is not this intelligence enough?

                      ORESTES.
    Half of the horror yet remains untold.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Electra and Orestes both survive,
    What have I then to fear?

                      ORESTES.
                         And fear'st thou nought
    For Clytemnestra?

                     IPHIGENIA.
                         Her, nor hope nor fear
    Have power to save.

                      ORESTES.
                         She to the land of hope
    Hath bid farewell.

                     IPHIGENIA.
                            Did her repentant hand
    Shed her own blood?

                      ORESTES.
                          Not so; yet her own blood
    Inflicted death.

                     IPHIGENIA.
                        Speak less ambiguously.
    Uncertainty around my anxious head
    Her dusky, thousand-folded, pinion waves.

                      ORESTES.
    Have then the powers above selected me
    To be the herald of a dreadful deed,
    Which, in the drear and soundless realms of night,
    I fain would hide for ever? 'Gainst my will
    Thy gentle voice constrains me; it demands,
    And shall receive, a tale of direst woe.
    Electra, on the day when fell her sire,
    Her brother from impending doom conceal'd;
    Him Strophius, his father's relative,
    With kindest care receiv'd, and rear'd the child
    With his own son, named Pylades, who soon
    Around the stranger twin'd the bonds of love.
    And as they grew, within their inmost souls
    There sprang the burning longing to revenge
    The monarch's death. Unlookd for, and disguis'd,
    They reach Mycene, feigning to have brought
    The mournful tidings of Orestes' death,
    Together with his ashes. Them the queen
    Gladly receives. Within the house they enter;
    Orestes to Electra shows himself:
    She fans the fires of vengeance into flame,
    Which in the sacred presence of a mother
    Had burn'd more dimly. Silently she leads
    Her brother to the spot where fell their sire;
    Where lurid blood-marks, on the oft-wash'd floor,
    With pallid streaks, anticipate revenge.
    With fiery eloquence she pictures forth
    Each circumstance of that atrocious deed,--
    Her own oppress'd and miserable life,
    The prosperous traitor's insolent demeanour,
    The perils threat'ning Agamemnon's race
    From her who had become their stepmother;
    Then in his hand the ancient dagger thrusts,
    Which often in the house of Tantalus
    With savage fury rag'd,--and by her son
    Is Clytemnestra slain.

                     IPHIGENIA.
                              Immortal powers!
    Whose pure and blest existence glides away
    'Mid ever shifting clouds, me have ye kept
    So many years secluded from the world,
    Retain'd me near yourselves, consign'd to me
    The childlike task to feed the sacred fire,
    And taught my spirit, like the hallow'd flame,
    With never-clouded brightness to aspire
    To your pure mansions,--but at length to feel
    With keener woe the misery of my house?
    Oh tell me of the poor unfortunate!
    Speak of Orestes!

                      ORESTES.
                            Would that he were dead!
    Forth from his mother's blood her ghost arose,
    And to the ancient daughters of the night
    Cries,--"Let him not escape,--the matricide!
    Pursue the victim, dedicate to you!"
    They hear, and glare around with hollow eyes,
    Like greedy eagles. In their murky dens
    They stir themselves, and from the corners creep
    Their comrades, dire Remorse and pallid Fear;
    Before them fumes a mist of Acheron;
    Perplexingly around the murderer's brow
    The eternal contemplation of the past
    Rolls in its cloudy circles.  Once again
    The grisly band, commissioned to destroy,
    Pollute earth's beautiful and heaven-sown fields,
    From which an ancient curse had banish'd them.
    Their rapid feet the fugitive pursue;
    They only pause to start a wilder fear.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Unhappy one; thy lot resembles his,
    Thou feel'st what he, poor fugitive, must suffer.

                      ORESTES.
    What say'st thou? why presume my fate like his?

                     IPHIGENIA.
    A brother's murder weighs upon thy soul;
    Thy younger brother told the mournful tale.

                      ORESTES.
    I cannot suffer that thy noble soul
    Should be deceiv'd by error. Rich in guile,
    And practis'd in deceit, a stranger may
    A web of falsehood cunningly devise
    To snare a stranger;--between us be truth.
    I am Orestes! and this guilty head
    Is stooping to the tomb, and covets death;
    It will be welcome now in any shape.
    Whoe'er thou art, for thee and for my friend
    I wish deliverance;--I desire it not.
    Thou seem'st to linger here against thy will;
    Contrive some means of flight, and leave me here:
    My lifeless corpse hurl'd headlong from the rock,
    My blood shall mingle with the dashing waves,
    And bring a curse upon this barbarous shore!
    Return together home to lovely Greece,
    With joy a new existence to commence.
                                            [ORESTES _retires_.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    At length Fulfilment, fairest child of Jove,
    Thou dost descend upon me from on high!
    How vast thine image! scarce my straining eye
    Can reach thy hands, which, fill'd with golden fruit
    And wreaths of blessing, from Olympus' height
    Shower treasures down. As by his bounteous gifts
    We recognize the monarch (for what seems
    To thousands opulence is nought to him),
    So you, ye heavenly Powers, are also known
    By bounty long withheld, and wisely plann'd.
    Ye only know what things are good for us;
    Ye view the future's wide-extended realm;
    While from our eye a dim or starry veil
    The prospect shrouds. Calmly ye hear our prayers,
    When we like children sue for greater speed.
    Not immature ye pluck heaven's golden fruit;
    And woe to him, who with impatient hand,
    His date of joy forestalling, gathers death.
    Let not this long-awaited happiness,
    Which yet my heart hath scarcely realiz'd,
    Like to the shadow of departed friends,
    Glide vainly by with triple sorrow fraught!

                      ORESTES, _returning_.
    Dost thou for Pylades and for thyself
    Implore the gods, blend not my name with yours;
    Thou wilt not save the wretch whom thou wouldst join,
    But wilt participate his curse and woe.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    My destiny is firmly bound to thine.

                      ORESTES.
    No, say not so; alone and unattended
    Let me descend to Hades. Though thou shouldst
    In thine own veil enwrap the guilty one.
    Thou couldst not shroud him from his wakeful foes;
    And e'en thy sacred presence, heavenly maid,
    Drives them aside, but scares them not away.
    With brazen impious feet they dare not tread
    Within the precincts of this sacred grove:
    Yet in the distance, ever and anon,
    I hear their horrid laughter, like the howl
    Of famish'd wolves, beneath the tree wherein
    The traveller hides. Without, encamp'd they lie,
    And should I quit this consecrated grove,
    Shaking their serpent locks, they would arise,
    And, raising clouds of dust on every side,
    Ceaseless pursue their miserable prey.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Orestes, canst thou hear a friendly word?

                      ORESTES.
    Reserve it for one favour'd by the gods.


                     IPHIGENIA.
    To thee they give anew the light of hope.

                      ORESTES.
    Through clouds and smoke I see the feeble gleam
    Of the death-stream which lights me down to hell.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Hast thou one sister only, thy Electra?

                      ORESTES.
    I knew but one: yet her kind destiny,
    Which seem'd to us so terrible, betimes
    Removed an elder sister from the woe
    That dogs the race of Pelops. Cease, oh cease
    Thy questions, maiden, nor thus league thyself
    With the Eumenides, who blow away,
    With fiendish joy, the ashes from my soul,
    Lest the last spark of horror's fiery brand
    Should be extinguish'd there. Must then the fire,
    Deliberately kindl'd and supplied
    With hellish sulphur, never cease to sear
    My tortur'd bosom?

                     IPHIGENIA.
                            In the flame I throw
    Sweet incense. Let the gentle breath of love,
    Low murmuring, cool thy bosom's fiery glow.
    Orestes, fondly lov'd,--canst thou not hear me?
    Hath the terrific Furies' grisly band
    Completely dried the life-blood in thy veins?
    Creeps there, as from the Gorgon's direful head,
    A petrifying charm through all thy limbs?
    If hollow voices, from a mother's blood,
    Call thee to hell, may not a sister's word
    With benediction pure ascend to heaven,
    And summon thence some gracious power to aid thee?

                      ORESTES.
    She calls! she calls!--Thou too desir'st my death?
    Is there a fury shrouded in thy form?
    Who art thou, that thy voice thus horribly
    Can harrow up my bosom's inmost depths?

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Thine inmost heart reveals it. I am she,
    Iphigenia,--look on me, Orestes!


                      ORESTES.
    Thou!

                     IPHIGENIA.
             My own brother!

                      ORESTES.
                             Hence, away, begone!
    Touch not these locks, I counsel thee; from me,
    As from Creusa's bridal robe, proceeds
    An unextinguishable fire. Depart!
    Like Hercules, an ignominious death,
    Unworthy wretch, look'd in myself, I'll die.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Thou shalt not perish! Would that I might hear
    One quiet word from thee! dispel my doubts,
    Make sure the bliss I have implor'd so long.
    A wheel of joy and sorrow in my heart
    Ceaseless revolves. With shy reserve I turn
    From one unknown; but unto thee, my brother,
    My inmost heart resistlessly impels me.

                      ORESTES.
    Is this Lyæus' temple? Doth the glow
    Of holy rage unbridl'd thus possess
    The sacred priestess?

                     IPHIGENIA.
                               Hear me, oh, look up!
    See how my heart, which hath been clos'd so long,
    Doth open to the bliss of seeing thee,
    The dearest treasure that the world contains,--
    Of falling on thy neck, and folding thee
    Within my longing arms, which have till now
    Met the embraces of the empty wind.
    Do not repulse me,--the eternal spring,
    Whose crystal waters from Parnassus flow,
    Bounds not more gaily on from rock to rock,
    Down to the golden vale, than from my heart
    The waters of affection freely gush,
    And round me form a circling sea of bliss.
    Orestes! Oh, my brother!

                      ORESTES.
                                  Lovely nymph!
    Nor thy caresses, nor thyself I trust;
    Diana claims attendants more severe,
    And doth avenge her desecrated fane.
    Remove thy circling arm! and if thou wilt
    Safety and love upon a youth bestow,
    Unto my friend, more worthy than myself,
    Impart thy gifts; among yon rocks he roves;
    Go seek him, guide him hence, and heed not me.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Brother, command thyself, and better know
    Thy new-found sister, nor misconstrue thus
    Her pure and heav'nly joy. Ye Gods, remove
    From his fix'd eye delusion, lest this hour
    Of highest bliss should make us trebly wretched!
    Oh she is here, thine own, thy long-lost sister,
    Whom great Diana from the altar snatch'd,
    And safely plac'd here in her sacred fane.
    A captive thou, prepar'd for sacrifice,
    And findest here a sister in the priestess.

                      ORESTES.
    Accursed race! Now may the sun behold
    Your final doom. Is not Electra here?
    That she with us may perish, nor her life
    For heavier doom and deeper woe reserve.
    'Tis well,--I follow, priestess! Fratricide
    Is an old custom of our ancient house;
    And you, ye Gods, I thank, that ye resolve
    Childless to root me hence. Thee let me counsel
    To view too fondly neither sun nor stars.
    Come follow to the gloomy realms below!
    As dragons, gender'd in the sulphur pool,
    Swallow each other with voracious rage,
    So our accurs'd race destroys itself.
    Childless and guiltless come below with me!
    There's pity in thy look! oh, gaze not so,--
    'Twas with such looks that Clytemnestra sought
    An entrance to her son Orestes' heart,
    And yet his uprais'd arm her bosom pierc'd.
    His mother fell!--Appear, indignant shade!
    Within the circle step, ye fiends of hell,
    Be present at the welcome spectacle,
    The last, most horrible, that ye prepare!
    Nor hate, nor vengeance, whets the poignard now,
    A sister is constrain'd to deal the blow.
    Weep not! Thy guiltless soul is free from crime.
    From earliest infancy I nought have lov'd,
    As thee I could have lov'd, my sister. Come,
    The weapon raise, spare not, this bosom rend,
    And make an outlet for its boiling streams!
                                          (_He sinks exhausted._)

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Alone I cannot bear this bliss and woe.
    Where art thou, Pylades? Thine aid I need.
                                            (_Iphigenia retires_.)


                            SCENE II.


                            ORESTES,
           _Recovering from his swoon and standing up_.

    Give yet another! reach from Lethe's stream
    The last reviving draught of cool refreshment!
    Soon shall its waters in my bosom still
    Life's fitful fever; and my spirit then
    Adown oblivion's stream shall glide to you,
    Ye spirits, shrouded in eternal mist.
    With tranquil pleasure in your deep repose
    A weary son of earth may lave his soul!--
    What whisp'ring sounds pervade the dreary grove?
    What hollow murmurs haunt its twilight gloom?--
    They gather round to view the stranger guest!
    Who are yon troop in high communion met,
    Like an assembl'd family of princes?
    They mingle peacefully, of every age,
    And either sex, yet are their godlike forms
    Cast in a kindred mould. 'Tis they, 'tis they,
    The fathers of my race! With Atreus,
    In friendly converse glides Thyestes' shade,
    And children playfully around them sport.
    Is there no enmity among you now?
    And is revenge extinguish'd with the sun?
    I then am welcome, and may hope to join
    Your solemn company. My fathers, hail!
    Orestes, last descendant of your race,
    Salutes you. What ye sow'd, that hath he reap'd
    Laden with curses he descends to you.
    But burdens here are lighter far to bear.
    Receive him, oh, receive him in your circle!
    Thee, Atreus, I revere, and thee, Thyestes:
    Here all are free from enmity and hate.--
    Show me my father, whom I only once
    In life beheld.--Art thou my father, thou,
    My mother leading thus familiarly?
    Dares Clytemnestra reach her hand to thee;
    Then may Orestes also draw near her,
    And say, behold thy son!--My ancestors,
    Behold your son, and bid him welcome here,
    Among the sons of ancient Tantalus,
    A kind salute on earth was murder's watchword,
    And all their joys commence beyond the grave.
    Ye welcome me! Ye bid me join your circle!
    Oh, lead me to my honour'd ancestor!
    Where is the aged hero? that I may
    Behold the dear, the venerable head,
    Of him, who with the gods in council sat.
    You seem to shudder and to turn away?
    What may this mean? Suffers the godlike man?
    Alas! the mighty gods, with ruthless hate,
    To his heroic breast, with brazen chains,
    Have cruel pangs indissolubly bound.


                             SCENE III.

                 ORESTES.    IPHIGENIA.    PYLADES.


                      ORESTES.
    How! are ye come already? Sister, welcome.
    Electra still is missing: some kind god
    With gentle arrow send her quickly hither.
    Thee, my poor friend, I must compassionate!
    Come with me, come to Pluto's gloomy throne.
    There to salute our hosts like stranger guests.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Celestial pair, who from the realms above
    By night and day shed down the beauteous light
    To cheer mankind, but who may not illume
    Departed spirits, save a mortal pair!
    A brother's and a sister's anguish pity!
    For thou, Diana, lov'st thy gentle brother
    Beyond what earth and heaven can offer thee
    And dost, with quiet yearning, ever turn
    Thy virgin face to his eternal light.
    Let not my only brother, found so late,
    Rave in the darkness of insanity!
    And is thy will, when thou didst here conceal me,
    At length fulfill'd,--would'st thou to me through him,
    To him through me, thy gracious aid extend,--
    Oh, free him from the fetters of this curse,
    Lest vainly pass the precious hours of safety.

                      PYLADES.
    Dost thou not know us, and this sacred grove,
    And this blest light, which shines not on the dead?
    Dost thou not feel thy sister and thy friend,
    Who hold thee living in their firm embrace?
    Grasp us! we are not shadows. Mark my words!
    Collect thyself,--each moment now is precious,
    And our return hangs on a slender thread,
    Which, as it seems, some gracious fate doth spin.

                 ORESTES _to_ IPHIGENIA.
    My sister, let me for the first time taste,
    With open heart, pure joy within thine arms!
    Ye gods, who charge the heavy clouds with dread,
    And sternly gracious send the long-sought rain
    With thunder and the rush of mighty winds,
    A horrid deluge on the trembling earth;
    Yet dissipate at length man's dread suspense,
    Exchanging timid wonder's anxious gaze
    For grateful looks and joyous songs of praise,
    When in each sparkling drop which gems the leaves,
    Apollo, thousand-fold, reflects his beam,
    And Iris colours with a magic hand
    The dusky texture of the parting clouds;
    Oh, let me also in my sister's arms,
    And on the bosom of my friend, enjoy
    With grateful thanks the bliss ye now bestow
    My heart assures me that your curses cease.
    The dread Eumenides at length retire,
    The brazen gates of Tartarus I hear
    Behind them closing with a thund'ring clang.
    A quick'ning odour from the earth ascends,
    Inviting me to chase, upon its plains,
    The joys of life and deeds of high emprise.

                      PYLADES.
    Lose not the moments which are limited!
    The favouring gale, which swells our parting sail,
    Must to Olympus waft our perfect joy.
    Quick counsel and resolve the time demands.




                             ACT THE FOURTH.

                                SCENE I.


                     IPHIGENIA.
    When the Powers on high decree
    For a feeble child of earth
    Dire perplexity and woe,
    And his spirit doom to pass
    With tumult wild from joy to grief,
    And back again from grief to joy,
    In fearful alternation;
    They in mercy then provide,
    In the precincts of his home,
    Or upon the distant shore,
    That to him may never fail
    Ready help in hours of need,
    A tranquil, faithful friend.
    Oh, bless, ye heavenly powers, our Pylades,
    And every project that his mind may form!
    In combat his the vigorous arm of youth,
    And in the counsel his the eye of age.
    His soul is tranquil; in his inner mind
    He guards a sacred, undisturb'd repose,
    And from its silent depths a rich supply
    Of aid and counsel draws for the distress'd.
    He tore me from my brother, upon whom,
    With fond amaze, I gaz'd and gaz'd again;
    I could not realize my happiness,
    Nor loose him from my arms, and heeded not
    The danger's near approach that threatens us.
    To execute their project of escape,
    They hasten to the sea, where in a bay
    Their comrades in the vessel lie conceal'd
    And wait a signal. Me they have supplied
    With artful answers, should the monarch send
    To urge the sacrifice. Alas! I see
    I must consent to follow like a child.
    I have not learn'd deception, nor the art
    To gain with crafty wiles my purposes.
    Detested falsehood! it doth not relieve
    The breast like words of truth: it comforts not,
    But is a torment in the forger's heart,
    And, like an arrow which a god directs,
    Flies back and wounds the archer. Through my heart
    One fear doth chase another; perhaps with rage,
    Again on the unconsecrated shore,
    The Furies' grisly band my brother seize.
    Perchance they are surpris'd? Methinks I hear
    The tread of armed men. A messenger
    Is coming from the king, with hasty steps.
    How throbs my heart, how troubl'd is my soul
    Now that I see the countenance of one,
    Whom with a word untrue I must encounter!


                               SCENE II.

                         IPHIGENIA.    ARKAS.


                       ARKAS.
    Priestess, with speed conclude the sacrifice,
    Impatiently the king and people wait.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    I had perform'd my duty and thy will,
    Had not an unforeseen impediment
    The execution of my purpose thwarted.

                       ARKAS.
    What is it that obstructs the king's commands?

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Chance, which from mortals will not brook control.

                       ARKAS.
    Possess me with the reason, that with speed
    I may inform the king, who hath decreed
    The death of both.

                     IPHIGENIA.
                   The gods have not decreed it.
    The elder of these men doth bear the guilt
    Of kindred murder; on his steps attend
    The dread Eumenides. They seiz'd their prey
    Within the inner fane, polluting thus
    The holy sanctuary. I hasten now,
    Together with my virgin-train, to bathe
    Diana's image in the sea, and there
    With solemn rites its purity restore.
    Let none presume our silent march to follow!

                       ARKAS.
    This hindrance to the monarch I'll announce:
    Do not commence the rite till he permit.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    The priestess interferes alone in this.

                       ARKAS.
    An incident so strange the king should know.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Here, nor his counsel nor command avails.

                       ARKAS.
    Oft are the great consulted out of form.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Do not insist on what I must refuse.

                       ARKAS.
    A needful and a just demand refuse not.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    I yield, if thou delay not.

                       ARKAS.
                                   I with speed
    Will bear these tidings to the camp, and soon
    Acquaint thee, priestess, with the king's reply.
    There is a message I would gladly bear him:
    'Twould quickly banish all perplexity:
    Thou didst not heed thy faithful friend's advice.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    I willingly have done whate'er I could.

                       ARKAS.
    E'en now 'tis not too late to change thy mind.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    To do so is, alas, beyond our power.

                       ARKAS.
    What thou wouldst shun, thou deem'st impossible.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Thy wish doth make thee deem it possible.

                       ARKAS.
    Wilt thou so calmly venture everything?

                     IPHIGENIA.
    My fate I have committed to the gods.

                       ARKAS.
    The gods are wont to save by human means.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    By their appointment everything is done.

                       ARKAS.
    Believe me, all doth now depend on thee.
    The irritated temper of the king
    Alone condemns these men to bitter death.
    The soldiers from the cruel sacrifice
    And bloody service long have been disused;
    Nay, many, whom their adverse fortunes cast
    In foreign regions, there themselves have felt
    How godlike to the exil'd wanderer
    The friendly countenance of man appears.
    Do not deprive us of thy gentle aid!
    With ease thou canst thy sacred task fulfil:
    For nowhere doth benignity, which comes
    In human form from heaven, so quickly gain
    An empire o'er the heart, as where a race,
    Gloomy and savage, full of life and power,
    Without external guidance, and oppress'd
    With vague forebodings, bear life's heavy load.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Shake not my spirit, which thou canst not bend
    According to thy will.

                       ARKAS.
                                While there is time
    Nor labour nor persuasion shall be spar'd.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Thy labour but occasions pain to me;
    Both are in vain; therefore, I pray, depart.


                       ARKAS.
    I summon pain to aid me. 'tis a friend
    Who counsels wisely.

                     IPHIGENIA.
                            Though it shakes my soul,
    It doth not banish thence my strong repugnance.

                       ARKAS.
    Can then a gentle soul repugnance feel
    For benefits bestow'd by one so noble?

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Yes, when the donor, for those benefits,
    Instead of gratitude, demands myself.

                       ARKAS.
    Who no affection feels doth never want
    Excuses. To the king I'll now relate
    All that has happen'd. Oh, that in thy soul
    Thou wouldst revolve his noble conduct, priestess,
    Since thy arrival to the present day!


                              SCENE III.


                     IPHIGENIA, _alone_.
    These words at an unseasonable hour
    Produce a strong revulsion in my breast;
    I am alarm'd!--For as the rushing tide
    In rapid currents eddies o'er the rocks
    Which lie among the sand upon the shore;
    E'en so a stream of joy o'erwhelm'd my soul.
    I grasp'd what had appear'd impossible.
    It was as though another gentle cloud
    Around me lay, to raise me from the earth,
    And rock my spirit in the same sweet sleep
    Which the kind goddess shed around my brow,
    What time her circling arm from danger snatch'd me.
    My brother forcibly engross'd my heart;
    I listen'd only to his friend's advice;
    My soul rush'd eagerly to rescue them,
    And as the mariner with joy surveys
    The less'ning breakers of a desert isle,
    So Tauris lay behind me. But the voice
    Of faithful Arkas wakes me from my dream,
    Reminding me that those whom I forsake
    Are also men. Deceit doth now become
    Doubly detested. O my soul, be still!
    Beginn'st thou now to tremble and to doubt?
    Thy lonely shelter on the firm-set earth
    Must thou abandon? and, embark'd once more,
    At random drift upon tumultuous waves,
    A stranger to thyself and to the world?


                              SCENE IV.

                        IPHIGENIA.    PYLADES.


                      PYLADES.
    Where is she? that my words with speed may tell
    The joyful tidings of our near escape!

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Oppress'd with gloomy care, I much require
    The certain comfort thou dost promise me.

                      PYLADES.
    Thy brother is restor'd! The rocky paths
    Of this unconsecrated shore we trod
    In friendly converse, while behind us lay,
    Unmark'd by us, the consecrated grove;
    And ever with increasing glory shone
    The fire of youth around his noble brow.
    Courage and hope his glowing eye inspir'd;
    And his free heart exulted with the joy
    Of saving thee, his sister, and his friend.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    The gods shower blessings on thee, Pylades!
    And from those lips which breathe such welcome news,
    Be the sad note of anguish never heard!

                      PYLADES.
    I bring yet more,--for Fortune, like a prince,
    Comes not alone, but well accompanied.
    Our friends and comrades we have also found.
    Within a bay they had conceal'd the ship,
    And mournful sat expectant. They beheld
    Thy brother, and a joyous shout uprais'd,
    Imploring him to haste the parting hour.
    Each hand impatient long'd to grasp the oar,
    While from the shore a gently murmuring breeze,
    Perceiv'd by all, unfurl'd its wing auspicious.
    Let us then hasten; guide me to the fane,
    That I may tread the sanctuary, and seize
    With sacred awe the object of our hopes.
    I can unaided on my shoulder bear
    Diana's image: how I long to feel
    The precious burden!
        [_While speaking the last words, he approaches the Temple,
             without perceiving that he is not followed by
             Iphigenia: at length he turns round._]
                         Why thus ling'ring stand.
    Why art thou silent? wherefore thus confus'd?
    Doth some new obstacle oppose our bliss?
    Inform me, hast thou to the king announc'd
    The prudent message we agreed upon?

                     IPHIGENIA.
    I have, dear Pylades; yet wilt thou chide.
    Thy very aspect is a mute reproach.
    The royal messenger arriv'd, and I,
    According to thy counsel, fram'd my speech.
    He seem'd surpris'd, and urgently besought,
    That to the monarch I should first announce
    The rite unusual, and attend his will.
    I now await the messenger's return.

                      PYLADES.
    Danger again doth hover o'er our heads!
    O priestess, why neglect to shroud thyself
    Within the veil of sacerdotal rites?

                     IPHIGENIA.
    I never have employ'd them as a veil.

                      PYLADES.
    Pure soul! thy scruples will destroy alike
    Thyself and us. Why did I not foresee
    Such an emergency, and tutor thee
    This counsel also wisely to elude?

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Chide only me, for mine alone the blame.
    Yet other answer could I not return
    To him, who strongly and with reason urg'd
    What my own heart acknowledg'd to be right.

                      PYLADES.
    The danger thickens; but let us be firm,
    Nor with incautious haste betray ourselves;
    Calmly await the messenger's return,
    And then stand fast, whatever his reply:
    For the appointment of such sacred rites
    Doth to the priestess, not the king belong.
    Should he demand the stranger to behold
    Who is by madness heavily oppress'd,
    Evasively pretend, that in the fane,
    Securely guarded, thou retain'st us both.
    Thus you secure us time to fly with speed,
    Bearing the sacred treasure from this race,
    Unworthy its possession. Phœbus sends
    Auspicious omens, and fulfils his word,
    Ere we the first conditions have perform'd.
    Free is Orestes, from the curse absolv'd!
    Oh, with the freed one, to the rocky isle
    Where dwells the god, waft us, propitious gales!
    Thence to Mycene, that she may revive;
    That from the ashes of the extinguish'd hearth,
    The household gods may joyously arise,
    And beauteous fire illumine their abode!
    Thy hand from golden censers first shall strew
    The fragrant incense. O'er that threshold thou
    Shalt life and blessing once again dispense,
    The curse atone, and all thy kindred grace
    With the fresh bloom of renovated life.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    As doth the flower revolve to meet the sun,
    Once more my spirit to sweet comfort turns,
    Struck by thy words' invigorating ray.
    How dear the counsel of a present friend,
    Lacking whose godlike power, the lonely one
    In silence droops! for, lock'd within his breast,
    Slowly are ripen'd purpose and resolve,
    Which friendship's genial warmth had soon matur'd.

                      PYLADES.
    Farewell! I haste to re-assure our friends,
    Who anxiously await us: then with speed
    I will return, and, hid within the brake,
    Attend thy signal.--Wherefore, all at once,
    Doth anxious thought o'ercloud thy brow serene?

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Forgive me! As light clouds athwart the sun,
    So cares and fears float darkling o'er my soul.

                      PYLADES.
    Oh, banish fear! With danger it hath form'd
    A close alliance,--they are constant friends.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    It is an honest scruple, which forbids
    That I should cunningly deceive the king,
    And plunder him who was my second sire.

                      PYLADES.
    Him thou dost fly, who would have slain thy brother.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    To me, at least, he hath been ever kind.

                      PYLADES.
    What Fate commands is not ingratitude.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Alas! it still remains ingratitude;
    Necessity alone can justify it.

                      PYLADES.
    Thee, before gods and men it justifies.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    But my own heart is still unsatisfied.

                      PYLADES.
    Scruples too rigid are a cloak for pride.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    I cannot argue, I can only feel.

                      PYLADES.
    Conscious of right, thou shouldst respect thyself.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Then only doth the heart know perfect ease,
    When not a stain pollutes it.

                      PYLADES.
                            In this fane
    Pure hast thou kept thy heart. Life teaches us
    To be less strict with others and ourselves;
    Thou'lt learn the lesson too. So wonderful
    Is human nature, and its varied ties
    Are so involv'd and complicate, that none
    May hope to keep his inmost spirit pure,
    And walk without perplexity through life.
    Nor are we call'd upon to judge ourselves;
    With circumspection to pursue his path,
    Is the immediate duty of a man.
    For seldom can he rightly estimate,
    Or his past conduct or his present deeds.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Almost thou dost persuade me to consent.

                      PYLADES.
    Needs there persuasion when no choice is granted?
    To save thyself, thy brother, and a friend,
    One path presents itself, and canst thou ask
    If we shall follow it?

                     IPHIGENIA.
                          Still let me pause,
    For such injustice thou couldst not thyself
    Calmly return for benefits receiv'd.

                      PYLADES.
    If we should perish, bitter self-reproach,
    Forerunner of despair, will be thy portion.
    It seems thou art not used to suffer much,
    When, to escape so great calamity,
    Thou canst refuse to utter one false word.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Oh, that I bore within a manly heart!
    Which, when it hath conceiv'd a bold resolve,
    'Gainst every other voice doth close itself.

                      PYLADES.
    In vain thou dost refuse; with iron hand
    Necessity commands; her stern decree
    Is law supreme, to which the gods themselves
    Must yield submission. In dread silence rules
    The uncounsell'd sister of eternal fate.
    What she appoints thee to endure,--endure;
    What to perform,--perform. The rest thou know'st.
    Ere long I will return, and then receive
    The seal of safety from thy sacred hand.


                              SCENE V.


                     IPHIGENIA, _alone_.
    I must obey him, for I see my friends
    Beset with peril. Yet my own sad fate
    Doth with increasing anguish move my heart.
    May I no longer feed the silent hope
    Which in my solitude I fondly cherish'd?
    Shall the dire curse eternally endure?
    And shall our fated race ne'er rise again
    With blessings crown'd?--All mortal things decay!
    The noblest powers, the purest joys of life
    At length subside: then wherefore not the curse?
    And have I vainly hop'd that, guarded here,
    Secluded from the fortunes of my race,
    I, with pure heart and hands, some future day
    Might cleanse the deep defilement of our house?
    Scarce was my brother in my circling arms
    From raging madness suddenly restor'd,
    Scarce had the ship, long pray'd for, near'd the strand,
    Once more to waft me to my native shores,
    When unrelenting fate, with iron hand,
    A double crime enjoins; commanding me
    To steal the image, sacred and rever'd,
    Confided to my care, and him deceive
    To whom I owe my life and destiny.
    Let not abhorrence spring within my heart!
    Nor the old Titan's hate, toward you, ye gods,
    Infix its vulture talons in my breast!
    Save me, and save your image in my soul!
    An ancient song comes back upon mine ear--
    I had forgotten it, and willingly--
    The Parcæ's song, which horribly they sang,
    What time, hurl'd headlong from his golden seat,
    Fell Tantalus. They with their noble friend
    Keen anguish suffer'd; savage was their breast
    And horrible their song. In days gone by,
    When we were children, oft our ancient nurse
    Would sing it to us, and I mark'd it well.

        Oh, fear the immortals,
        Ye children of men!
        Eternal dominion
        They hold in their hands.
        And o'er their wide empire
        Wield absolute sway.
        Whom they have exalted
        Let him fear them most!
        Around golden tables,
        On cliffs and clouds resting
        The seats are prepar'd.
        If contest ariseth;
        The guests are hurl'd headlong,
        Disgrac'd and dishonour'd,
        And fetter'd in darkness,
        Await with vain longing,
        A juster decree.
        But in feasts everlasting,
        Around the gold tables
        Still dwell the immortals.
        From mountain to mountain
        They stride; while ascending
        From fathomless chasms,
        The breath of the Titans,
        Half stifl'd with anguish,
        Like volumes of incense
        Fumes up to the skies.
        From races ill-fated,
        Their aspect joy-bringing,
        Oft turn the celestials,
        And shun in the children
        To gaze on the features
        Once lov'd and still speaking
        Of their mighty sire.
        Thus sternly the Fates sang
        Immur'd in his dungeon.
        The banish'd one listens,
        The song of the Parcæ,
        His children's doom ponders,
        And boweth his head.




                             ACT THE FIFTH.

                                SCENE I.

                           THOAS.     ARKAS.


                       ARKAS.
    I own I am perplex'd, and scarcely know
    'Gainst whom to point the shaft of my suspicion,
    Whether the priestess aids the captives' flight,
    Or they themselves clandestinely contrive it.
    'Tis rumour'd that the ship which brought them here
    Is lurking somewhere in a bay conceal'd.
    This stranger's madness, these new lustral rites,
    The specious pretext for delay, excite
    Mistrust, and call aloud for vigilance.

                       THOAS.
    Summon the priestess to attend me here!
    Then go with speed, and strictly search the shore,
    From yon projecting land to Dian's grove:
    Forbear to violate its sacred depths;
    A watchful ambush set, attack and seize,
    According to your wont, whome'er ye find.
                                                    [_Arkas retires._


                               SCENE II.


                       THOAS, _alone_.
    Fierce anger rages in my riven breast,
    First against her, whom I esteem'd so pure;
    Then 'gainst myself, whose foolish lenity
    Hath fashion'd her for treason. Man is soon
    Inur'd to slavery, and quickly learns
    Submission, when of freedom quite depriv'd.
    If she had fallen in the savage hands
    Of my rude sires, and had their holy rage
    Forborne to slay her, grateful for her life,
    She would have recogniz'd her destiny.
    Have shed before the shrine the stranger's blood,
    And duty nam'd what was necessity.
    Now my forbearance in her breast allures
    Audacious wishes. Vainly I had hop'd
    To bind her to me; rather she contrives
    To shape an independent destiny.
    She won my heart through flattery; and now
    That I oppose her, seeks to gain her ends
    By fraud and cunning, and my kindness deems
    A worthless and prescriptive property.


                             SCENE III.

                        IPHIGENIA.    THOAS.


                     IPHIGENIA.
    Me hast thou summon'd? wherefore art thou here?

                       THOAS.
    Wherefore delay the sacrifice? inform me.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    I have acquainted Arkas with the reasons.

                       THOAS.
    From thee I wish to hear them more at large.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    The goddess for reflection grants thee time.

                       THOAS.
    To thee this time seems also opportune.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    If to this cruel deed thy heart is steel'd,
    Thou shouldst not come! A king who meditates
    A deed inhuman, may find slaves enow,
    Willing for hire to bear one half the curse,
    And leave the monarch's presence undefil'd.
    Enwrapt in gloomy clouds he forges death,
    Whose flaming arrow on his victim's head
    His hirelings hurl; while he above the storm
    Remains untroubl'd, an impassive god.

                       THOAS.
    A wild song, priestess, issued from thy lips.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    No priestess, king! but Agamemnon's daughter;
    While yet unknown, thou didst respect my words:
    A princess now,--and think'st thou to command me
    From youth I have been tutor'd to obey,
    My parents first, and then the deity;
    And thus obeying, ever hath my soul
    Known sweetest freedom. But nor then nor now
    Have I been taught compliance with the voice
    And savage mandates of a man.

                       THOAS.
                                      Not I,
    An ancient law doth claim obedience from thee.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Our passions eagerly catch hold of laws
    Which they can wield as weapons. But to me
    Another law, one far more ancient, speaks,
    And doth command me to withstand thee, king!
    That law declaring sacred every stranger.

                       THOAS.
    These men, methinks, lie very near thy heart.
    When sympathy with them can lead thee thus
    To violate discretion's primal law,
    That those in power should never be provok'd.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Speaking or silent, thou canst always know
    What is, and ever must be, in my heart.
    Doth not remembrance of a common doom,
    To soft compassion melt the hardest heart?
    How much more mine! in them I see myself.
    I trembling kneel'd before the altar once.
    And solemnly the shade of early death
    Environ'd me. Aloft the knife was rais'd
    To pierce my bosom, throbbing with warm life;
    A dizzy horror overwhelm'd my soul;
    My eyes grew dim;--I found myself in safety.
    Are we not bound to render the distress'd
    The gracious kindness from the gods receiv'd?
    Thou know'st we are, and yet wilt thou compel me?

                       THOAS.
    Obey thine office, priestess, not the king.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Cease! nor thus seek to cloak the savage force
    Which triumphs o'er a woman's feebleness.
    Though woman, I am born as free as man.
    Did Agamemnon's son before thee stand,
    And thou requiredst what became him not,
    His arm and trusty weapon would defend
    His bosom's freedom. I have only words
    But it becomes a noble-minded man
    To treat with due respect the words of woman.

                       THOAS.
    I more respect them than a brother's sword.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Uncertain ever is the chance of arms,
    No prudent warrior doth despise his foe;
    Nor yet defenceless 'gainst severity
    Hath nature left the weak; she gives him craft
    And wily cunning: artful he delays,
    Evades, eludes, and finally escapes.
    Such arms are justified by violence.

                       THOAS.
    But circumspection countervails deceit.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Which a pure spirit doth abhor to use.

                       THOAS.
    Do not incautiously condemn thyself.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Oh, couldst thou see the struggle of my soul,
    Courageously to ward the first attack
    Of an unhappy doom, which threatens me!
    Do I then stand before thee weaponless?
    Prayer, lovely prayer, fair branch in woman's hand,
    More potent far than instruments of war,
    Thou dost thrust back. What now remains for me
    Wherewith my inborn freedom to defend?
    Must I implore a miracle from heaven?
    Is there no power within my spirit's depths?

                       THOAS.
    Extravagant thy interest in the fate
    Of these two strangers. Tell me who they are,
    For whom thy heart is thus so deeply mov'd.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    They are--they seem at least--I think them Greeks.

                       THOAS.
    Thy countrymen; no doubt they have renew'd
    The pleasing picture of return.


                     IPHIGENIA, _after a pause_,
                                   Doth man
    Lay undisputed claim to noble deeds?
    Doth he alone to his heroic breast
    Clasp the impossible? What call we great?
    What deeds, though oft narrated, still uplift
    With shudd'ring horror the narrator's soul,
    But those which, with improbable success,
    The valiant have attempted? Shall the man
    Who all alone steals on his foes by night,
    And raging like an unexpected fire,
    Destroys the slumbering host, and press'd at length
    By rous'd opponents or his foemen's steeds,
    Retreats with booty--be alone extoll'd?
    Or he who, scorning safety, boldly roams
    Through woods and dreary wilds, to scour the land
    Of thieves and robbers? Is nought left for us?
    Must gentle woman quite forego her nature,--
    Force against force employ,--like Amazons,
    Usurp the sword from man, and bloodily
    Revenge oppression? In my heart I feel
    The stirrings of a noble enterprize;
    But if I fail--severe reproach, alas!
    And bitter misery will be my doom.
    Thus on my knees I supplicate the gods.
    Oh, are ye truthful, as men say ye are,
    Now prove it by your countenance and aid;
    Honour the truth in me! Attend, O king!
    A secret plot is laid; 'tis vain to ask
    Touching the captives; they are gone, and seek
    Their comrades who await them on the shore.
    The eldest,--he whom madness lately seiz'd,
    And who is now recover'd,--is Orestes,
    My brother, and the other Pylades,
    His early friend and faithful confidant.
    From Delphi, Phœbus sent them to this shore
    With a divine command to steal away
    The image of Diana, and to him
    Bear back the sister, promising for this
    Redemption to the blood-stain'd matricide.
    I have deliver'd now into thy hands
    The remnants of the house of Tantalus.
    Destroy us--if thou canst.

                       THOAS.
                           And dost thou think
    The savage Scythian will attend the voice
    Of truth and of humanity, unheard
    By the Greek Atreus?

                     IPHIGENIA.
                             'Tis heard by all,
    Whate'er may be their clime, within whose breast
    Flows pure and free the gushing stream of life.--
    What silent purpose broods within thy soul?
    Is it destruction? Let me perish first!
    For now, deliv'rance hopeless, I perceive
    The dreadful peril into which I have
    With rash precipitancy plung'd my friends.
    Alas! I soon shall see them bound before me!
    How to my brother shall I say farewell?
    I, the unhappy author of his death.
    Ne'er can I gaze again in his dear eyes!

                       THOAS.
    The traitors have contriv'd a cunning web,
    And cast it round thee, who, secluded long,
    Giv'st willing credence to thine own desires.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    No, no! I'd pledge my life these men are true.
    And shouldst thou find them otherwise, O king,
    Then let them perish both, and cast me forth,
    That on some rock-girt island's dreary shore
    I may atone my folly. Are they true,
    And is this man indeed my dear Orestes,
    My brother, long implor'd,--release us both,
    And o'er us stretch the kind protecting arm,
    Which long hath shelter'd me. My noble sire
    Fell through his consort's guilt,--she by her son;
    On him alone the hope of Atreus' race
    Doth now repose. Oh, with pure heart and hands
    Let me depart to expiate our house.
    Yes, thou wilt keep thy promise; thou didst swear,
    That were a safe return provided me,
    I should be free to go. The hour is come.
    A king doth never grant like common men,
    Merely to gain a respite from petition;
    Nor promise what he hopes will ne'er be claim'd.
    Then first he feels his dignity complete
    When he can make the long-expecting happy.

                       THOAS.
    As fire opposes water, and doth seek
    With hissing rage to overcome its foe,
    So doth my anger strive against thy words.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Let mercy, like the consecrated flame
    Of silent sacrifice, encircl'd round
    With songs of gratitude, and joy, and praise,
    Above the tumult gently rise to heaven.

                       THOAS.
    How often hath this voice assuag'd my soul!

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Extend thy hand to me in sign of peace.

                       THOAS.
    Large thy demand within so short a time.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Beneficence doth no reflection need.

                       THOAS.
    'Tis needed oft, for evil springs from good.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    'Tis doubt which good doth oft to evil turn.
    Consider not: act as thy feelings prompt thee.


                             SCENE IV.

             ORESTES (_armed_).   IPHIGENIA.     THOAS.


              ORESTES, _addressing his followers_.
    Redouble your exertions! hold them back!
    Few moments will suffice; retain your ground,
    And keep a passage open to the ship
    For me and for my sister.
                           _To_ IPHIGENIA, _without perceiving_ THOAS.
                                    Come with speed!
    We are betray'd,--brief time remains for flight.

                       THOAS.
    None in my presence with impunity
    His naked weapon wears.


                     IPHIGENIA.
                                Do not profane
    Diana's sanctuary with rage and blood.
    Command your people to forbear awhile,
    And listen to the priestess, to the sister.

                      ORESTES.
    Say, who is he that threatens us?

                     IPHIGENIA.
                                     In him
    Revere the king, who was my second father.
    Forgive me, brother, that my childlike heart
    Hath plac'd our fate thus wholly in his hands.
    I have betray'd your meditated flight,
    And thus from treachery redeem'd my soul.

                      ORESTES.
    Will he permit our peaceable return?

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Thy gleaming sword forbids me to reply.

              ORESTES, _sheathing his sword_.
    Then speak! thou seest I listen to thy words.


                                 SCENE V.

                     ORESTES.   IPHIGENIA.   THOAS.

           _Enter_ PYLADES, _soon after him_ ARKAS, _both with
                               drawn swords_.

                      PYLADES.
    Do not delay! our friends are putting forth
    Their final strength, and yielding step by step,
    Are slowly driven backward to the sea.--
    A conference of princes find I here?
    Is this the sacred person of the king?

                       ARKAS.
    Calmly, as doth become thee, thou dost stand,
    O king, surrounded by thine enemies.
    Soon their temerity shall be chastis'd;
    Their yielding followers fly.--their ship is ours.
    Speak but the word, and it is wrapt in flames.

                       THOAS.
    Go, and command my people to forbear!
    Let none annoy the foe while we confer.    (_Arkas retires_.)

                      ORESTES.

    I willingly consent. Go, Pylades!
    Collect the remnant of our friends, and wait
    The appointed issue of our enterprize.
                                               (_Pylades retires_.)


                                SCENE VI.

                    IPHIGENIA.    THOAS.    ORESTES.


                     IPHIGENIA.
    Believe my cares ere ye begin to speak.
    I fear contention, if thou wilt not hear
    The voice of equity, O king,--if thou
    Wilt not, my brother, curb thy headstrong youth.

                       THOAS.
    I, as becomes the elder, check my rage.
    Now answer me: how dost thou prove thyself
    The priestess' brother, Agamemnon's son?

                      ORESTES.
    Behold the sword with which the hero slew
    The valiant Trojans. From his murderer
    I took the weapon, and implor'd the Gods
    To grant me Agamemnon's mighty arm,
    Success, and valour, with a death more noble.
    Select one of the leaders of thy host,
    And place the best as my opponent here.
    Where'er on earth the sons of heroes dwell,
    This boon is to the stranger ne'er refus'd.

                       THOAS.
    This privilege hath ancient custom here
    To strangers ne'er accorded.

                      ORESTES.
                            Then from us
    Commence the novel custom! A whole race
    In imitation soon will consecrate
    Its monarch's noble action into law.
    Nor let me only for our liberty,--
    Let me, a stranger, for all strangers fight.
    If I should fall, my doom be also theirs;
    But if kind fortune crown me with success,
    Let none e'er tread this shore, and fail to meet
    The beaming eye of sympathy and love,
    Or unconsol'd depart!

                       THOAS.
                           Thou dost not seem
    Unworthy of thy boasted ancestry.
    Great is the number of the valiant men
    Who wait upon me; but I will myself,
    Although advanc'd in years, oppose the foe,
    And am prepar'd to try the chance of arms.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    No, no! such bloody proofs are not requir'd.
    Unhand thy weapon, king! my lot consider;
    Rash combat oft immortalizes man;
    If he should fall, he is renown'd in song;
    But after ages reckon not the tears
    Which ceaseless the forsaken woman sheds;
    And poets tell not of the thousand nights
    Consum'd in weeping, and the dreary days,
    Wherein her anguish'd soul, a prey to grief,
    Doth vainly yearn to call her lov'd one back.
    Fear warn'd me to beware lest robber's wiles
    Might lure me from this sanctuary, and then
    Betray me into bondage. Anxiously
    I question'd them, each circumstance explor'd,
    Demanded signs, and now my heart's assur'd.
    See here, the mark as of three stars impress'd
    On his right hand, which on his natal day
    Were by the priest declar'd to indicate
    Some dreadful deed by him to be perform'd.
    And then this scar, which doth his eyebrow cleave,
    Redoubles my conviction. When a child,
    Electra, rash and inconsiderate,
    Such was her nature, loos'd him from her arms.
    He fell against a tripos. Oh, 'tis he!--
    Shall I adduce the likeness to his sire,
    Or the deep rapture of my inmost heart,
    In further token of assurance, king?

                       THOAS.
    E'en though thy words had banish'd every doubt,
    And I had curb'd the anger in my breast,
    Still must our arms decide. I see no peace.
    Their purpose, as thou didst thyself confess,
    Was to deprive me of Diana's image.
    And think ye that I'll look contented on?
    The Greeks are wont to cast a longing eye
    Upon the treasures of barbarians,
    A golden fleece, good steeds, or daughters fair;
    But force and guile not always have avail'd
    To lead them, with their booty, safely home.

                      ORESTES.
    The image shall not be a cause of strife!
    We now perceive the error which the God,
    Our journey here commanding, like a veil,
    Threw o'er our minds. His counsel I implor'd,
    To free me from the Furies' grisly band.
    He answer'd, "Back to Greece the sister bring,
    Who in the sanctuary on Tauris' shore
    Unwillingly abides; so ends the curse!"
    To Phœbus' sister we applied the words,
    And he referr'd to thee! The bonds severe,
    Which held thee from us, holy one, are rent,
    And thou art ours once more.  At thy blest touch,
    I felt myself restor'd. Within thine arms,
    Madness once more around me coil'd its folds,
    Crushing the marrow in my frame, and then
    For ever, like a serpent, fled to hell.
    Through thee, the daylight gladdens me anew.
    The counsel of the Goddess now shines forth
    In all its beauty and beneficence.
    Like to a sacred image, unto which
    An oracle immutably hath bound
    A city's welfare, thee Diana took,
    Protectress of our house, and guarded here
    Within this holy stillness, to become
    A blessing to thy brother and thy race.
    Now when each passage to escape seems clos'd,
    And safety hopeless, thou dost give us all.
    O king, incline thine heart to thoughts of peace!
    Let her fulfil her mission, and complete
    The consecration of our father's house.
    Me to their purified abode restore,
    And place upon my brow the ancient crown!
    Requite the blessing which her presence brought thee,
    And let me now my nearer right enjoy!
    Cunning and force, the proudest boast of man,
    Fade in the lustre of her perfect truth;
    Nor unrequited will a noble mind
    Leave confidence, so childlike and so pure.

                     IPHIGENIA.
    Think on thy promise; let thy heart be mov'd
    By what a true and honest tongue hath spoken!
    Look on us, king! an opportunity
    For such a noble deed not oft occurs.
    Refuse thou canst not,--give thy quick consent.

                       THOAS.
    Then go!

                     IPHIGENIA.
                    Not so, my king! I cannot part
    Without thy blessing, or in anger from thee.
    Banish us not! the sacred right of guests
    Still let us claim: so not eternally
    Shall we be sever'd. Honour'd and belov'd
    As mine own father was, art thou by me:
    And this impression in my soul remains.
    Should e'en the meanest peasant of thy land
    Bring to my ear the tones I heard from thee
    Or should I on the humblest see thy garb,
    I will with joy receive him as a god,
    Prepare his couch myself, beside our hearth
    Invite him to a seat, and only ask
    Touching thy fate and thee. Oh, may the gods
    To thee the merited reward impart
    Of all thy kindness and benignity!
    Farewell! Oh, do not turn away, but give
    One kindly word of parting in return!
    So shall the wind more gently swell our sails,
    And from our eyes with soften'd anguish flow
    The tears of separation. Fare thee well!
    And graciously extend to me thy hand,
    In pledge of ancient friendship.

                       THOAS, _extending his hand._
                                            Fare thee well!


 "Truly, I never have seen the market and street so deserted!
 How as if it were swept looks the town, or had perished! Not fifty
 Are there, methinks, of all our inhabitants in it remaining,
 What will not curiosity do! here is every one running,
 Hurrying to gaze on the sad procession of pitiful exiles.
 Fully a league it must be to the causeway they have to pass over,
 Yet all are hurrying down in the dusty heat of the noonday.
 I, in good sooth, would not stir from my place to witness the sorrows
 Borne by good, fugitive people, who now, with their rescued possessions,
 Driven, alas! from beyond the Rhine, their beautiful country,
 Over to us are coming, and through the prosperous corner
 Roam of this our luxuriant valley, and traverse its windings.
 Well hast thou done, good wife, our son in thus kindly dispatching,
 Laden with something to eat and to drink, and with store of old linen,
 'Mongst the poor folk to distribute; for giving belongs to the wealthy.
 How the youth drives, to be sure! What control he has over the horses!
 Makes not our carriage a handsome appearance,--the new one? With comfort,
 Four could be seated within, with a place on the box for the coachman.
 This time, he drove by himself. How lightly it rolled round the corner!"
 Thus, as he sat at his ease in the porch of his house on the market,
 Unto his wife was speaking mine host of the Golden Lion.

 Thereupon answered and said the prudent, intelligent housewife:
 "Father, I am not inclined to be giving away my old linen:
 Since it serves many a purpose; and cannot be purchased for money,
 When we may want it. To-day, however, I gave, and with pleasure,
 Many a piece that was better, indeed, in shirts and in bed-clothes;
 For I was told of the aged and children who had to go naked.
 But wilt thou pardon me, father? thy wardrobe has also been plundered.
 And, in especial, the wrapper that has the East-Indian flowers,
 Made of the finest of chintz, and lined with delicate flannel,
 Gave I away: it was thin and old, and quite out of the fashion."

 Thereupon answered and said, with a smile, the excellent landlord:
 "Faith! I am sorry to lose it, my good old calico wrapper,
 Real East-Indian stuff: I never shall get such another.
 Well, I had given up wearing it: nowadays, custom compels us
 Always to go in surtout, and never appear but in jacket;
 Always to have on our boots; forbidden are night-cap and slippers."

 "See!" interrupted the wife; "even now some are yonder returning,
 Who have beheld the procession: it must, then, already be over.
 Look at the dust on their shoes! and see how their faces are glowing!
 Every one carries his kerchief, and with it is wiping the sweat off.
 Not for a sight like that would I run so far and so suffer,
 Through such a heat; in sooth, enough shall I have in the telling."

 Thereupon answered and said, with emphasis, thus, the good father:
 "Rarely does weather like this attend such a harvest as this is.
 We shall be bringing our grain in dry, as the hay was before it.
 Not the least cloud to be seen, so perfectly clear is the heaven;
 And, with delicious coolness, the wind blows in from the eastward.
 That is the weather to last! over-ripe are the cornfields already;
 We shall begin on the morrow to gather our copious harvest."

 Constantly, while he thus spoke, the crowds of men and of women
 Grew, who their homeward way were over the market-place wending;
 And, with the rest, there also returned, his daughters beside him,
 Back to his modernized house on the opposite side of the market,
 Foremost merchant of all the town, their opulent neighbor,
 Rapidly driving his open barouche,--it was builded in Landau.
 Lively now grew the streets, for the city was handsomely peopled.
 Many a trade was therein carried on, and large manufactures.

 Under their doorway thus the affectionate couple were sitting,
 Pleasing themselves with many remarks on the wandering people.
 Finally broke in, however, the worthy housewife, exclaiming:
 "Yonder our pastor, see! is hitherward coming, and with him
 Comes our neighbor the doctor, so they shall every thing tell us;
 All they have witnessed abroad, and which 'tis a sorrow to look on."

 Cordially then the two men drew nigh, and saluted the couple;
 Sat themselves down on the benches of wood that were placed in the doorway,
 Shaking the dust from their feet, and fanning themselves with their kerchiefs.
 Then was the doctor, as soon as exchanged were the mutual greetings,
 First to begin, and said, almost in a tone of vexation:
 "Such is mankind, forsooth! and one man is just like another,
 Liking to gape and to stare when ill-luck has befallen his neighbor.
 Every one hurries to look at the flames, as they soar in destruction;
 Runs to behold the poor culprit, to execution conducted:
 Now all are sallying forth to gaze on the need of these exiles,
 Nor is there one who considers that he, by a similar fortune,
 May, in the future, if not indeed next, be likewise o'ertaken.
 Levity not to be pardoned, I deem; yet it lies in man's nature."

 Thereupon answered and said the noble, intelligent pastor;
 Ornament he of the town, still young, in the prime of his manhood.
 He was acquainted with life,--with the needs of his hearers acquainted;
 Deeply imbued he was with the Holy Scriptures' importance,
 As they reveal man's destiny to us, and man's disposition;
 Thoroughly versed, besides, in best of secular writings.
 "I should be loath," he replied, "to censure an innocent instinct,
 Which to mankind by good mother Nature has always been given.
 What understanding and reason may sometimes fail to accomplish,
 Oft will such fortunate impulse, that bears us resistlessly with it.
 Did curiosity draw not man with its potent attraction,
 Say, would he ever have learned how harmoniously fitted together
 Worldly experiences are? For first what is novel he covets;
 Then with unwearying industry follows he after the useful;
 Finally longs for the good by which he is raised and ennobled.
 While he is young, such lightness of mind is a joyous companion,
 Traces of pain-giving evil effacing as soon as 'tis over.
 He is indeed to be praised, who, out of this gladness of temper,
 Has in his ripening years a sound understanding developed;
 Who, in good fortune or ill, with zeal and activity labors:
 Such an one bringeth to pass what is good, and repaireth the evil."

 Then broke familiarly in the housewife impatient, exclaiming:
 "Tell us of what ye have seen; for that I am longing to hear of!"

 "Hardly," with emphasis then the village doctor made answer,
 "Can I find spirits so soon after all the scenes I have witnessed.
 Oh, the manifold miseries! who shall be able to tell them?
 E'en before crossing the meadows, and while we were yet at a distance,
 Saw we the dust; but still from hill to hill the procession
 Passed away out of our sight, and we could distinguish but little,
 But when at last we were come to the street that crosses the valley,
 Great was the crowd and confusion of persons on foot and of wagons.
 There, alas! saw we enough of these poor unfortunates passing,
 And could from some of them learn how bitter the sorrowful flight was,
 Yet how joyful the feeling of life thus hastily rescued.
 Mournful it was to behold the most miscellaneous chattels,--
 All those things which are housed in every well-furnished dwelling,
 All by the house-keeper's care set up in their suitable places,
 Always ready for use; for useful is each and important.--
 Now these things to behold, piled up on all manner of wagons,
 One on the top of another, as hurriedly they had been rescued.
 Over the chest of drawers were the sieve and wool coverlet lying;
 Thrown in the kneading-trough lay the bed, and the sheets on the mirror.
 Danger, alas! as we learned ourselves in our great conflagration
 Twenty years since, will take from a man all power of reflection,
 So that he grasps things worthless and leaves what is precious behind him.
 Here, too, with unconsidering care they were carrying with them
 Pitiful trash, that only encumbered the horses and oxen;
 Such as old barrels and boards, the pen for the goose, and the bird-cage.
 Women and children, too, went toiling along with their bundles,

 "Panting 'neath baskets and tubs, full of things of no manner of value:
 So unwilling is man to relinquish his meanest possession.
 Thus on the dusty road the crowded procession moved forward,
 All confused and disordered. The one whose beasts were the weaker,
 Wanted more slowly to drive, while faster would hurry another.
 Presently went up a scream from the closely squeezed women and children,
 And with the yelping of dogs was mingled the lowing of cattle,
 Cries of distress from the aged and sick, who aloft on the wagon,
 Heavy and thus overpacked, upon beds were sitting and swaying.
 Pressed at last from the rut and out to the edge of the highway,
 Slipped the creaking wheel; the cart lost its balance, and over
 Fell in the ditch. In the swing the people were flung to a distance,
 Far off into the field, with horrible screams; by good fortune
 Later the boxes were thrown and fell more near to the wagon.
 Verily all who had witnessed the fall, expected to see them
 Crushed into pieces beneath the weight of trunks and of presses.
 So lay the cart all broken to fragments, and helpless the people.
 Keeping their onward way, the others drove hastily by them,
 Each thinking only of self, and carried away by the current.
 Then we ran to the spot, and found the sick and the aged,--
 Those who at home and in bed could before their lingering ailments
 Scarcely endure,--lying bruised on the ground, complaining and groaning,
 Choked by the billowing dust, and scorched by the heat of the noonday."

 Thereupon answered and said the kind-hearted landlord, with feeling:
 "Would that our Hermann might meet them and give them refreshment and clothing!
 Loath should I be to behold them: the looking on suffering pains me.
 Touched by the earliest tidings of their so cruel afflictions,
 Hastily sent we a mite from out of our super-abundance,
 Only that some might be strengthened, and we might ourselves be made easy.
 But let us now no longer renew these sorrowful pictures
 Knowing how readily fear steals into the heart of us mortals,
 And anxiety, worse to me than the actual evil.
 Come with me into the room behind, our cool little parlor,
 Where no sunbeam e'er shines, and no sultry breath ever enters
 Through its thickness of wall. There mother will bring us a flagon
 Of our old eighty-three, with which we may banish our fancies.
 Here 'tis not cosey to drink: the flies so buzz round the glasses."
 Thither adjourned they then, and all rejoiced in the coolness.

 Carefully brought forth the mother the clear and glorious vintage,
 Cased in a well-polished flask, on a waiter of glittering pewter,
 Set round with large green glasses, the drinking cups meet for the Rhine Wine.
 So sat the three together about the highly waxed table,
 Gleaming and round and brown, that on mighty feet was supported,
 Joyously rang at once the glasses of landlord and pastor,
 But his motionless held the third, and sat lost in reflection,
 Until with words of good-humor the landlord challenged him, saying,--
 "Come, sir neighbor, empty your glass, for God in his mercy
 Thus far has kept us from evil, and so in the future will keep us.
 For who acknowledges not, that since our dread conflagration,
 When he so hardly chastised us, he now is continually blessing,
 Constantly shielding, as man the apple of his eye watches over,
 Holding it precious and dear above all the rest of his members?
 Shall he in time to come not defend us and furnish us succor?
 Only when danger is nigh do we see how great is his power.
 Shall he this blooming town which he once by industrious burghers
 Built up afresh from its ashes, and afterwards blessed with abundance,
 Now demolish again, and bring all the labor to nothing?"

 Cheerfully said in reply the excellent pastor, and kindly:
 "Keep thyself firm in the faith, and firm abide in this temper;
 For it makes steadfast and wise when fortune is fair, and when evil,
 Furnishes sweet consolation and animates hopes the sublimest."

 Then made answer the landlord, with thoughts judicious and manly:
 "Often the Rhine's broad stream have I with astonishment greeted,
 As I have neared it again, after travelling abroad upon business.
 Always majestic it seemed, and my mind and spirit exalted.
 But I could never imagine its beautiful banks would so shortly
 Be to a rampart transformed, to keep from our borders the Frenchman,
 And its wide-spreading bed be a moat all passage to hinder.
 See! thus nature protects, the stout-hearted Germans protect us,
 And thus protects us the Lord, who then will he weakly despondent?
 Weary already the combatants, all indications are peaceful.
 Would it might be that when that festival, ardently longed for,
 Shall in our church be observed, when the sacred Te Deum is rising,
 Swelled by the pealing of organ and bells, and the blaring of trumpets,--
 Would it might be that that day should behold my Hermann, sir pastor,
 Standing, his choice now made, with his bride before thee at the altar,
 Making that festal day, that through every land shall be honored,
 My anniversary, too, henceforth of domestic rejoicing!
 But I observe with regret, that the youth so efficient and active
 Ever in household affairs, when abroad is timid and backward.
 Little enjoyment he finds in going about among others;
 Nay, he will even avoid young ladies' society wholly;
 Shuns the enlivening dance which all young persons delight in."

 Thus he spoke and listened; for now was heard in the distance
 Clattering of horses' hoofs drawing near, and the roll of the wagon,
 Which, with furious haste, came thundering under the gateway.




TERPSICHORE

HERMANN

 Now when of comely mien the son came into the chamber,
 Turned with a searching look the eyes of the preacher upon him,
 And, with the gaze of the student, who easily fathoms expression,
 Scrutinized well his face and form and his general bearing.
 Then with a smile he spoke, and said in words of affection:
 "Truly a different being thou comest! I never have seen thee
 Cheerful as now, nor ever beheld I thy glances so beaming.
 Joyous thou comest, and happy: 'tis plain that among the poor people
 Thou hast been sharing thy gifts, and receiving their blessings upon thee."

 Quietly then, and with serious words, the son made him answer:
 "If I have acted as ye will commend, I know not; but I followed
 That which my heart bade me do, as I shall exactly relate you.
 Thou wert, mother, so long in rummaging 'mong thy old pieces,
 Picking and choosing, that not until late was thy bundle together;
 Then too the wine and the beer took care and time in the packing.
 When I came forth through the gateway at last, and out on the high-road,
 Backward the crowd of citizens streamed with women and children,
 Coming to meet me; for far was already the band of the exiles.
 Quicker I kept on my way, and drove with speed to the village,
 Where they were meaning to rest, as I heard, and tarry till morning.
 Thitherward up the new street as I hasted, a stout-timbered wagon,
 Drawn by two oxen, I saw, of that region the largest and strongest;
 While, with vigorous steps, a maiden was walking beside them,
 And, a long staff in her hand, the two powerful creatures was guiding,
 Urging them now, now holding them back; with skill did she drive them.
 Soon as the maiden perceived me, she calmly drew near to the horses,
 And in these words she addressed me: 'Not thus deplorable always
 Has our condition been, as to-day on this journey thou seest.
 I am not yet grown used to asking gifts of a stranger,
 Which he will often unwillingly give, to be rid of the beggar.
 But necessity drives me to speak; for here, on the straw, lies
 Newly delivered of child, a rich land-owner's wife, whom I scarcely
 Have in her pregnancy, safe brought off with the oxen and wagon.
 Naked, now in her arms the new-born infant is lying,
 And but little the help our friends will be able to furnish,
 If in the neighboring village, indeed, where to-day we would rest us,
 Still we shall find them; though much do I fear they already have passed it.
 Shouldst thou have linen to spare of any description, provided
 Thou of this neighborhood art, to the poor in charity give it.'

 "Thus she spoke, and the pale-faced mother raised herself feebly
 Up from the straw, and towards me looked. Then said I in answer:
 'Surely unto the good, a spirit from heaven oft speaketh,
 Making them feel the distress that threatens a suffering brother.
 For thou must know that my mother, already presaging thy sorrows,
 Gave me a bundle to use it straightway for the need of the naked,'
 Then I untied the knots of the string, and the wrapper of father's
 Unto her gave, and gave her as well the shirts and the linen.
 And she thanked me with joy, and cried: 'The happy believe not
 Miracles yet can be wrought: for only in need we acknowledge
 God's own hand and finger, that leads the good to show goodness,
 What unto us he has done through thee, may he do to thee also!
 And I beheld with what pleasure the sick woman handled the linens,
 But with especial delight the dressing-gown's delicate flannel.
 'Let us make haste,' the maid to her said, 'and come to the village,
 Where our people will halt for the night and already are resting.
 There these clothes for the children I, one and all, straightway will portion.'
 Then she saluted again, her thanks most warmly expressing,
 Started the oxen; the wagon went on; but there I still lingered,
 Still held the horses in check; for now my heart was divided
 Whether to drive with speed to the village, and there the provisions
 Share 'mong the rest of the people, or whether I here to the maiden
 All should deliver at once, for her discreetly to portion.
 And in an instant my heart had decided, and quietly driving
 After the maiden, I soon overtook her, and said to her quickly:
 'Hearken, good maiden;--my mother packed up not linen-stuffs only
 Into the carriage, that I should have clothes to furnish the naked;
 Wine and beer she added besides, and supply of provisions:
 Plenty of all these things I have in the box of the carriage.
 But now I feel myself moved to deliver these offerings also
 Into thy hand; for so shall I best fulfil my commission.
 Thou wilt divide them with judgment, while I must by chance be directed.'
 Thereupon answered the maiden: 'I will with faithfulness portion
 These thy gifts, that all shall bring comfort to those who are needy.'
 Thus she spoke, and quickly the box of the carriage I opened,
 Brought forth thence the substantial hams, and brought out the breadstuffs,
 Bottles of wine and beer, and one and all gave to the maiden.
 Willingly would I have given her more, but the carriage was empty.
 All she packed at the sick woman's feet, and went on her journey.
 I, with my horses and carriage, drove rapidly back to the city."

 Instantly now, when Hermann had ceased, the talkative neighbor
 Took up the word, and cried: "Oh happy, in days like the present,
 Days of flight and confusion, who lives by himself in his dwelling,
 Having no wife nor child to be clinging about him in terror!
 Happy I feel myself now, and would not for much be called father;
 Would not have wife and children to-day, for whom to be anxious.
 Oft have I thought of this flight before; and have packed up together
 All my best things already, the chains and old pieces of money
 That were my sainted mother's, of which not one has been sold yet.
 Much would be left behind, it is true, not easily gotten.
 Even the roots and the herbs, that were with such industry gathered,
 I should be sorry to lose, though the worth of the goods is but trifling.
 If my purveyor remained, I could go from my dwelling contented.
 When my cash I have brought away safe, and have rescued my person,
 All is safe: none find it so easy to fly as the single."

 "Neighbor," unto his words young Hermann with emphasis answered:
 "I can in no wise agree with thee here, and censure thy language.
 Is he indeed a man to be prized, who, in good and in evil,
 Takes no thought but for self, and gladness and sorrow with others
 Knows not how to divide, nor feels his heart so impel him?
 Rather than ever to-day would I make up my mind to be married:
 Many a worthy maiden is needing a husband's protection,
 And the man needs an inspiriting wife when ill is impending."

 Thereupon smiling the father replied: "Thus love I to hear thee!
 That is a sensible word such as rarely I've known thee to utter."
 Straightway, however, the mother broke in with quickness, exclaiming:
 "Son, to be sure, thou art right! we parents have set the example;
 Seeing that not in our season of joy did we choose one another;
 Rather the saddest of hours it was that bound us together.
 Monday morning--I mind it well; for the day that preceded
 Came that terrible fire by which our city was ravaged--
 Twenty years will have gone. The day was a Sunday as this is;
 Hot and dry was the season; the water was almost exhausted.
 All the people were strolling abroad in their holiday dresses,
 'Mong the villages partly, and part in the mills and the taverns.
 And at the end of the city the flames began, and went coursing
 Quickly along the streets, creating a draught in their passage.
 Burned were the barns where the copious harvest already was garnered;
 Burned were the streets as far as the market; the house of my father,
 Neighbor to this, was destroyed, and this one also fell with it.
 Little we managed to save. I sat, that sorrowful night through,
 Outside the town on the common, to guard the beds and the boxes.
 Sleep overtook me at last, and when I again was awakened,
 Feeling the chill of the morning that always descends before sunrise,
 There were the smoke and the glare, and the walls and chimneys in ruins.
 Then fell a weight on my heart; but more majestic than ever
 Came up the sun again, inspiring my bosom with courage.
 Then I rose hastily up, with a yearning the place to revisit
 Whereon our dwelling had stood, and to see if the hens had been rescued,
 Which I especially loved, for I still was a child in my feelings.
 Thus as I over the still-smoking timbers of house and of court-yard
 Picked my way, and beheld the dwelling so ruined and wasted,
 Thou camest up to examine the place, from the other direction.
 Under the ruins thy horse in his stall had been buried; the rubbish
 Lay on the spot and the glimmering beams; of the horse we saw nothing.
 Thoughtful and grieving we stood there thus, each facing the other,
 Now that the wall was fallen that once had divided our court-yards.
 Thereupon thou by the hand didst take me, and speak to me, saying,--
 'Lisa, how earnest thou hither? Go back! thy soles must be burning;
 Hot the rubbish is here: it scorches my boots, which are stronger.'
 And thou didst lift me up, and carry me out through thy court-yard.
 There was the door of the house left standing yet with its archway,
 Just as 'tis standing now, the one thing only remaining.
 Then thou didst set me down and kiss me; to that I objected;
 But thou didst answer and say with kindly significant language:
 'See! my house lies in ruins: remain here and help me rebuild it;
 So shall my help in return be given to building thy father's.'
 Yet did I not comprehend thee until thou sentest thy mother
 Unto my father, and quick were the happy espousals accomplished.
 E'en to this day I remember with joy those half-consumed timbers,
 And I can see once more the sun coming up in such splendor;
 For 'twas the day that gave me my husband; and, ere the first season
 Passed of that wild desolation, a son to my youth had been given.
 Therefore I praise thee, Hermann, that thou, with an honest assurance,
 Shouldst, in these sorrowful days, be thinking thyself of a maiden,
 And amid ruins and war shouldst thus have the courage to woo her."

 Straightway, then, and with warmth, the father replied to her, saying:
 "Worthy of praise is the feeling, and truthful also the story,
 Mother, that thou hast related; for so indeed everything happened.
 Better, however, is better. It is not the business of all men
 Thus their life and estate to begin from the very foundation:
 Every one needs not to worry himself as we and the rest did.
 Oh, how happy is he whose father and mother shall give him,
 Furnished and ready, a house which he can adorn with his increase.
 Every beginning is hard; but most the beginning a household.
 Many are human wants, and every thing daily grows dearer,
 So that a man must consider the means of increasing his earnings.
 This I hope therefore of thee, my Hermann, that into our dwelling
 Thou wilt be bringing ere long a bride who is handsomely dowered;
 For it is meet that a gallant young man have an opulent maiden.
 Great is the comfort of home whene'er, with the woman elected,
 Enter the useful presents, besides, in box and in basket.
 Not for this many a year in vain has the mother been busy
 Making her daughter's linens of strong and delicate texture;
 God-parents have not in vain been giving their vessels of silver,
 And the father laid by in his desk the rare pieces of money;
 For there a day will come when she, with her gifts and possessions,
 Shall that youth rejoice who has chosen her out of all others.
 Well do I know how good in a house is a woman's position,
 Who her own furniture round her knows, in kitchen and chamber;
 Who herself the bed and herself the table has covered.
 Only a well-dowered bride should I like to receive to my dwelling.
 She who is poor is sure, in the end, to be scorned by her husband;
 And will as servant be held, who as servant came in with her bundle.
 Men will remain unjust when the season of love is gone over.
 Yes, my Hermann, thy father's old age thou greatly canst gladden,
 If thou a daughter-in-law will speedily bring to my dwelling,
 Out of the neighborhood here,--from the house over yonder, the green one.
 Rich is the man, I can tell thee. His manufactures and traffic
 Daily are making him richer; for whence draws the merchant not profit?
 Three daughters only he has, to divide his fortune among them.
 True that the eldest already is taken; but there is the second
 Still to be had, as well as the third; and not long so, it may be.
 I would never have lingered till now, had I been in thy place;
 But had fetched one of the maidens, as once I bore off thy dear mother."
 Modestly then did the son to the urgent father answer;
 "Truly 'twas my wish too, as well as thine own, to have chosen
 One of our neighbor's daughters, for we had been brought up together;
 Played, in the early days, about the market-place fountain;
 And, from the other boys' rudeness, I often have been their defender.
 That, though, is long since past: the girls, as they grew to be older,
 Properly stayed in the house, and shunned the more boisterous pastimes.
 Well brought up are they, surely! I used sometimes to go over,
 Partly to gratify thee, and because of our former acquaintance:
 But no pleasure I ever could take in being among them;
 For I was always obliged to endure their censures upon me.
 Quite too long was my coat, the cloth too coarse, and the color
 Quite too common; my hair was not cropped, as it should be, and frizzled.
 I was resolved, at last, that I, also, would dress myself finely,
 Just as those office-boys do who always are seen there on Sundays,
 Wearing in summer their half-silken flaps, that dangled about them;
 But I discovered, betimes, they made ever a laughing-stock of me.
 And I was vexed when I saw it,--it wounded my pride; but more deeply
 Felt I aggrieved that they the good-will should so far misinterpret
 That in my heart I bore them,--especially Minna the youngest.
 It was on Easter-day that last I went over to see them;
 Wearing my best new coat, that is now hanging up in the closet,
 And having frizzled my hair, like that of the other young fellows.
 Soon as I entered, they tittered; but that not at me, as I fancied.
 Minna before the piano was seated; the father was present,
 Hearing his daughters sing, and full of delight and good-humor.
 Much I could not understand of all that was said in the singing;
 But of Pamina I often heard, and oft of Tamino:
 And I, besides, could not stay there dumb; so, as soon as she ended,
 Something about the words I asked, and about the two persons.
 Thereupon all were silent and smiled; but the father made answer:
 'Thou knowest no one, my friend, I believe, but Adam and Eve?'
 No one restrained himself longer, but loud laughed out then the maidens,
 Loud laughed out the boys, the old man held his sides for his laughing.
 I, in embarrassment, dropped my hat, and the giggling continued,
 On and on and on, for all they kept playing and singing.
 Back to the house here I hurried, o'ercome with shame and vexation,
 Hung up my coat in the closet, and pulled out the curls with my fingers,
 Swearing that never again my foot should cross over that threshold.
 And I was perfectly right; for vain are the maidens, and heartless.
 E'en to this day, as I hear, I am called by them ever 'Tamino.'"

 Thereupon answered the mother, and said: "Thou shouldest not, Hermann,
 Be so long vexed with the children: indeed, they are all of them children.
 Minna, believe me, is good, and was always disposed to thee kindly.
 'Twas not long since she was asking about thee. Let her be thy chosen!"

 Thoughtfully answered the son: "I know not. That mortification
 Stamped itself in me so deeply, I never could bear to behold her
 Seated before the piano or listen again to her singing."

 Forth broke the father then, and in words of anger made answer:
 "Little of joy will my life have in thee! I said it would be so
 When I perceived that thy pleasure was solely in horses and farming:
 Work which a servant, indeed, performs for an opulent master,
 That thou doest; the father meanwhile must his son be deprived of,
 Who should appear as his pride, in the sight of the rest of the townsmen.
 Early with empty hopes thy mother was wont to deceive me,
 When in the school thy studies, thy reading and writing, would never
 As with the others succeed, but thy seat would be always the lowest.
 That comes about, forsooth, when a youth has no feeling of honor
 Dwelling within his breast, nor the wish to raise himself higher.
 Had but my father so cared for me as thou hast been cared for;
 If he had sent me to school, and provided me thus with instructors,
 I should be other, I trow, than host of the Golden Lion!"

 Then the son rose from his seat and noiselessly moved to the doorway,
 Slowly, and speaking no word. The father, however; in passion
 After him called, "Yes, go, thou obstinate fellow! I know thee!
 Go and look after the business henceforth, that I have not to chide thee;
 But do thou nowise imagine that ever a peasant-born maiden
 Thou for a daughter-in-law shalt bring into my dwelling, the hussy!
 Long have I lived in the world, and know how mankind should be dealt with;
 Know how to entertain ladies and gentlemen so that contented
 They shall depart from my house, and strangers agreeably can flatter.
 Yet I'm resolved that some day I one will have for a daughter,
 Who shall requite me in kind and sweeten my manifold labors;
 Who the piano shall play to me, too; so that there shall with pleasure
 All the handsomest people in town and the finest assemble,
 As they on Sundays do now in the house of our neighbor." Here Hermann
 Softly pressed on the latch, and so went out from the chamber.




THALIA

THE CITIZENS

 Thus did the modest son slip away from the angry upbraiding;
 But in the tone he had taken at first, the father continued:
 "That comes not out of a man which he has not in him; and hardly
 Shall the joy ever be mine of seeing my dearest wish granted:
 That my son may not as his father be, but a better.
 What would become of the house, and what of the city if each one
 Were not with pleasure and always intent on maintaining, renewing,
 Yea, and improving, too, as time and the foreigner teach us!
 Man is not meant, forsooth, to grow from the ground like a mushroom,
 Quickly to perish away on the spot of ground that begot him,
 Leaving no trace behind of himself and his animate action!
 As by the house we straightway can tell the mind of the master,
 So, when we walk through a city, we judge of the persons who rule it.
 For where the towers and walls are falling to ruin; where offal
 Lies in heaps in the gutters, and alleys with offal are littered;
 Where from its place has started the stone, and no one resets it;
 Where the timbers are rotting away, and the house is awaiting
 Vainly its new supports,--that place we may know is ill governed.
 Since if not from above work order and cleanliness downward,
 Easily grows the citizen used to untidy postponement;
 Just as the beggar grows likewise used to his ragged apparel.
 Therefore I wished that our Hermann might early set out on some travels;
 That he at least might behold the cities of Strasburg and Frankfort,
 Friendly Mannheim, too, that is cheerful and evenly builded.
 He that has once beheld cities so cleanly and large, never after
 Ceases his own native city, though small it may be, to embellish.
 Do not the strangers who come here commend the repairs in our gateway,
 Notice our whitewashed tower, and the church we have newly rebuilded?
 Are not all praising our pavement? the covered canals full of water,
 Laid with a wise distribution, which furnish us profit and safety,
 So that no sooner does fire break out than 'tis promptly arrested?
 Has not all this come to pass since the time of our great conflagration?
 Builder I six times was named by the council, and won the approval,
 Won moreover the heartfelt thanks of all the good burghers,
 Actively carrying out what I planned, and also fulfilling
 What had by upright men been designed, and left uncompleted.
 Finally grew the same zeal in every one of the council;
 All now labor together, and firmly decided already
 Stands it to build the new causeway that shall with the highroad connect us.
 But I am sorely afraid that will not be the way with our children.
 Some think only of pleasure and perishable apparel;
 Others will cower at home, and behind the stove will sit brooding.
 One of this kind, as I fear, we shall find to the last in our Hermann."

 Straightway answered and said the good and intelligent mother:
 "Why wilt thou always, father, be doing our son such injustice?
 That least of all is the way to bring thy wish to fulfilment.
 We have no power to fashion our children as suiteth our fancy;
 As they are given by God, we so must have them and love them;
 Teach them as best we can, and let each of them follow his nature.
 One will have talents of one sort, and different talents another.
 Every one uses his own; in his own individual fashion,
 Each must be happy and good. I will not have my Hermann found fault with;
 For he is worthy, I know, of the goods he shall one day inherit;
 Will be an excellent landlord, a pattern to burghers and builders;
 Neither in council, as I can foresee, will he be the most backward.
 But thou keepest shut up in his breast all the poor fellow's spirit,
 Finding such fault with him daily, and censuring as thou but now hast."
 And on the instant she quitted the room, and after him hurried,
 Hoping she somewhere might find him, and might with her words of affection
 Cheer him again, her excellent son, for well he deserved it.

 Thereupon when she was gone, the father thus smiling continued:
 "What a strange folk, to be sure, are these women; and just like the children;
 Both of them bent upon living according as suiteth their pleasure,
 While we others must never do aught but flatter and praise them.
 Once for all time holds good the ancients' trustworthy proverb:
 'Whoever goes not forward comes backward.' So must it be always."

 Thereupon answered and said, in a tone of reflection, the doctor:
 "That, sir neighbor, I willingly grant; for myself I am always
 Casting about for improvement,--things new, so they be not too costly.
 But what profits a man, who has not abundance of money,
 Being thus active and stirring, and bettering inside and outside?
 Only too much is the citizen cramped: the good, though he know it,
 Has he no means to acquire because too slender his purse is,
 While his needs are too great; and thus is he constantly hampered.
 Many the things I had done; but then the cost of such changes
 Who does not fear, especially now in this season of danger?
 Long since my house was smiling upon me in modish apparel!
 Long since great panes of glass were gleaming in all of the windows!
 But who can do as the merchant does, who, with his resources,
 Knows the methods as well by which the best is arrived at?
 Look at that house over yonder,--the new one; behold with what splendor
 'Gainst the background of green stand out the white spirals of stucco!
 Great are the panes in the windows; and how the glass sparkles and glitters,
 Casting quite into the shade the rest of the market-place houses!
 Yet just after the fire were our two houses the finest,
 This of the Golden Lion, and mine of the sign of the Angel.
 So was my garden, too, throughout the whole neighborhood famous:
 Every traveller stopped and gazed through the red palisadoes,
 Caught by the beggars there carved in stone and the dwarfs of bright colors.
 Then whosoever had coffee served in the beautiful grotto,--
 Standing there now all covered with dust and Partly in ruins,--
 Used to be mightily pleased with the glimmering light of the mussels
 Spread out in beautiful order; and even the eye of the critic
 Used by the sight of my corals and potter's ore to be dazzled.
 So in my parlor, too, they would always admire the painting,
 Where in a garden are gaily dressed ladies and gentlemen walking,
 And with their taper fingers are plucking and holding the flowers.
 But who would look at it now! In sooth, so great my vexation
 Scarcely I venture abroad. All now must be other and tasteful,
 So they call it; and white are the laths and benches of wood-work;
 Everything simple and smooth; no carving longer or gilding
 Can be endured, and the woods from abroad are of all the most costly.
 Well, I too should be glad could I get for myself something novel;
 Glad to keep up with the times, and be changing my furniture often;
 Yet must we all be afraid of touching the veriest trifle.
 For who among us has means for paying the work-people's wages
 Lately I had an idea of giving the Archangel Michael,
 Making the sign of my shop, another fresh coating of gilding,
 And to the terrible dragon about his feet that is winding;
 But I e'en let him stay browned as he is: I dreaded the charges."




EUTERPE

MOTHER AND SON

 Thus entertaining themselves, the men sat talking. The mother
 Went meanwhile to look for her son in front of the dwelling,
 First on the settle of stone, whereon 'twas his wont to be seated.
 When she perceived him not there, she went farther to look in the stable,
 If he were caring perhaps for his noble horses, the stallions,
 Which he as colts had bought, and whose care he intrusted to no one.
 And by the servant she there was told: He is gone to the garden.
 Then with a nimble step she traversed the long, double courtyards,
 Leaving the stables behind, and the well-builded barns, too, behind her;
 Entered the garden, that far as the walls of the city extended;
 Walked through its length, rejoiced as she went in every thing growing;
 Set upright the supports on which were resting the branches
 Heavily laden with apples, and burdening boughs of the pear-tree.
 Next some caterpillars removed from a stout, swelling cabbage;
 For an industrious woman allows no step to be wasted.
 Thus was she come at last to the end of the far-reaching garden,
 Where stood the arbor embowered in woodbine; nor there did she find him,
 More than she had hitherto in all her search through the garden.
 But the wicket was standing ajar, which out of the arbor,
 Once by particular favor, had been through the walls of the city
 Cut by a grandsire of hers, the worshipful burgomaster.
 So the now dried-up moat she next crossed over with comfort,
 Where, by the side of the road, direct the well-fenced vineyard,
 Rose with a steep ascent, its slope exposed to the sunshine.
 Up this also she went, and with pleasure as she was ascending
 Marked the wealth of the clusters, that scarce by their leafage were hidden.
 Shady and covered the way through the lofty middlemost alley,
 Which upon steps that were made of unhewn blocks you ascended.
 There were the Muscatel, and there were the Chasselas hanging
 Side by side, of unusual size and colored with purple,
 All set out with the purpose of decking the visitor's table;
 While with single vine-stocks the rest of the hillside was covered,
 Bearing inferior clusters, from which the delicate wine comes.
 Thus up the slope she went, enjoying already the vintage,
 And that festive day on which the whole country, rejoicing,
 Picks and tramples the grapes, and gathers the must into vessels:
 Fireworks, when it is evening, from every direction and corner
 Crackle and blaze, and so the fairest of harvests is honored.
 But more uneasy she went, her son after twice or thrice calling,
 And no answer receiving, except from the talkative echo,
 That with many repeats rang back from the towers of the city.

 Strange it was for her to seek him; he never had gone to a distance
 That he told her not first, to spare his affectionate mother
 Every anxious thought, and fear that aught ill had befallen.
 Still did she constantly hope that, if further she went, she should find him;
 For the two doors of the vineyard, the lower as well as the upper,
 Both were alike standing open. So now she entered the cornfield,
 That with its broad expanse the ridge of the hill covered over.
 Still was the ground that she walked on her own; and the crops she rejoiced in,--
 All of them still were hers, and hers was the proud-waving grain, too,
 Over the whole broad field in golden strength that was stirring.
 Keeping the ridgeway, the footpath, between the fields she went onward,
 Having the lofty pear-tree in view, which stood on the summit,
 And was the boundary-mark of the fields that belonged to her dwelling.
 Who might have planted it, none could know, but visible was it
 Far and wide through the country; the fruit of the pear-tree was famous.
 'Neath it the reapers were wont to enjoy their meal at the noon-day,
 And the shepherds were used to tend their flocks in its shadow.
 Benches of unhewn stones and of turf they found set about it.
 And she had not been mistaken, for there sat her Hermann, and rested,--
 Sat with his head on his hand, and seemed to be viewing the landscape
 That to the mountains lay: his back was turned to his mother.
 Towards him softly she crept, and lightly touched on the shoulder;
 Quick he turned himself round: there were tears in his eyes as he met her.

 "Mother, how hast thou surprised me!" he said in confusion; and quickly
 Wiped the high-spirited youth his tears away. But the mother,
 "What! do I find thee weeping, my son?" exclaimed in amazement.
 "Nay, that is not like thyself: I never before have so seen thee!
 Tell me, what burdens thy heart? what drives thee here, to be sitting
 Under the pear-tree alone? These tears in thine eyes, what has brought them?"

 Then, collecting himself, the excellent youth made her answer:
 "Truly no heart can that man have in his bosom of iron,
 Who is insensible now to the needs of this emigrant people;
 He has no brains in his head, who not for his personal safety,
 Not for his fatherland's weal, in days like the present is anxious.
 Deeply my heart had been touched by the sights and sounds of the morning;
 Then I went forth and beheld the broad and glorious landscape
 Spreading its fertile slopes in every direction about us,
 Saw the golden grain inclining itself to the reapers,
 And the promise of well-filled barns from the plentiful harvest.
 But, alas, how near is the foe! The Rhine with its waters
 Guards us, indeed; but, ah, what now are rivers and mountains
 'Gainst that terrible people that onward bears like a tempest!
 For they summon their youths from every quarter together,
 Call up their old men too, and press with violence forward.
 Death cannot frighten the crowd: one multitude follows another.
 And shall a German dare to linger behind in his homestead?
 Hopes he perhaps to escape the everywhere threatening evil?
 Nay, dear mother, I tell thee, to-day has made me regretful
 That I was lately exempt, when out of our townsmen were chosen
 Those who should serve in the army. An only son I am truly,
 Also our business is great, and the charge of our household is weighty.
 Yet were it better, I deem, in the front to offer resistance
 There on the border, than here to await disaster and bondage.
 So has my spirit declared, and deep in my innermost bosom
 Courage and longing have now been aroused to live for my country,
 Yea, and to die, presenting to others a worthy example.
 If but the strength of Germany's youth were banded together
 There on the frontier, resolved that it never would yield to the stranger,
 Ah, he should not on our glorious soil be setting his foot-steps,
 Neither consuming before our eyes the fruit of our labor,
 Ruling our men, and making his prey of our wives and our daughters.
 Hark to me, mother: for I in the depths of my heart am determined
 Quickly to do, and at once, what appears to me right and in reason;
 For he chooses not always the best who longest considers.
 Hearken, I shall not again return to the house; but directly
 Go from this spot to the city, and there present to the soldiers
 This right arm and this heart, to be spent in the fatherland's service.
 Then let my father say if there be no feeling of honor
 Dwelling within my breast, nor a wish to raise myself higher."
 Then with significant words spoke the good and intelligent mother,
 While from her eyes the quick-starting tears were silently falling:
 "Son, what change has come o'er thee to-day, and over thy temper,
 That thou speakest no more, as thou yesterday didst, and hast always,
 Open and free, to thy mother, and tellest exactly thy wishes?
 Any one else, had he heard thee thus speak, would in sooth have commended,
 And this decision of thine would have highly approved as most noble,
 Being misled by thy tone and by thy significant language.
 Yet have I nothing but censure to speak; for better I know thee.
 Thou concealest thy heart, and thy thoughts are not such as thou tellest.
 Well do I know that it is not the drum, not the trumpet that calls thee:
 Neither in uniform wouldst thou figure in sight of the maidens;
 Since, for all thou art honest and brave, it is thy vocation
 Here in quiet to care for the farm and provide for the household.
 Tell me honestly, therefore, what goads thee to such a decision?"

 Earnestly answered the son: "Nay, thou art mistaken, dear mother:
 One day is not like another. The youth matures into manhood:
 Better in stillness oft ripening to deeds than when in the tumult
 Wildering and wild of existence, that many a youth has corrupted.
 And, for as still as I am and was always, there yet in my bosom
 Has such a heart been shaped as abhors all wrong and injustice;
 And I have learned aright between worldly things to distinguish.
 Arm and foot, besides, have been mightily strengthened by labor.
 All this, I feel, is true: I dare with boldness maintain it.
 Yet dost thou blame me with reason, O mother! for thou hast surprised me
 Using a language half truthful and half that of dissimulation.
 For, let me honestly own,--it is not the near danger that calls me
 Forth from my father's house; nor is it the lofty ambition
 Helpful to be to my country, and terrible unto the foeman.
 They were but words that I spoke: they only were meant for concealing
 Those emotions from thee with which my heart is distracted;
 And so leave me, O mother! for, since the wishes are fruitless
 Which in my bosom I cherish, my life must go fruitlessly over.
 For, as I know, he injures himself who is singly devoted,
 When for the common cause the whole are not working together."

 "Hesitate not," replied thereupon the intelligent mother,
 "Every thing to relate me, the smallest as well as the greatest.
 Men will always be hasty, their thoughts to extremes ever running:
 Easily out of their course the hasty are turned by a hindrance.
 Whereas a woman is clever in thinking of means, and will venture
 E'en on a roundabout way, adroitly to compass her object.
 Let me know every thing, then; say wherefore so greatly excited
 'As I ne'er saw thee before, why thy blood is coursing so hotly,
 Wherefore, against thy will, tears are filling thine eyes to o'erflowing."

 Then he abandoned himself, the poor boy, to his sorrow, and weeping,
 Weeping aloud on his kind mother's breast, he brokenly answered:
 "Truly my father's words to-day have wounded me sorely,--
 Words which I have not deserved; not to-day, nor at any time have I:
 For it was early my greatest delight to honor my parents.
 No one knew more, so I deemed, or was wiser than those who begot me,
 And had with strictness ruled throughout the dark season of childhood.
 Many the things, in truth, I with patience endured from my playmates,
 When the good-will that I bore them they often requited with malice.
 Often I suffered their flings and their blows to pass unresented;
 But if they ventured to ridicule father, when he of a Sunday
 Home from Church would come, with his solemn and dignified bearing;
 If they made fun of his cap-string, or laughed at the flowers of the wrapper
 He with such stateliness wore, which was given away but this morning,--
 Threateningly doubled my fist in an instant; with furious passion
 Fell I upon them, and struck out and hit, assailing them blindly,
 Seeing not where. They howled as the blood gushed out from their noses:
 Scarcely they made their escape from my passionate kicking and beating.
 Then, as I older grew, I had much to endure from my father;
 Violent words he oft vented on me, instead of on others,
 When, at the board's last session, the council had roused his displeasure,
 And I was made to atone for the quarrels and wiles of his colleagues.
 Thou has pitied me often thyself; for much did I suffer,
 Ever remembering with cordial respect the kindness of parents,
 Solely intent on increasing for us their goods and possessions,
 Much denying themselves in order to save for their children.
 But, alas! saving alone, for the sake of a tardy enjoyment,--
 That is not happiness: pile upon pile, and acre on acre,
 Make us not happy, no matter how fair our estates may be rounded.
 For the father grows old, and with him will grow old the children,
 Losing the joy of the day, and bearing the care of tomorrow.
 Look thou below, and see how before us in glory are lying,
 Fair and abundant, the corn-fields; beneath them, the vineyard and garden;
 Yonder the stables and barns; our beautiful line of possessions.
 But when I look at the dwelling behind, where up in the gable
 We can distinguish the window that marks my room in the attic;
 When I look back, and remember how many a night from that window
 I for the moon have watched; for the sun, how many a morning!
 When the healthful sleep of a few short hours sufficed me,--
 Ah, so lonely they seem to me then, the chamber and courtyard,
 Garden and glorious field, away o'er the hill that is stretching;
 All so desert before me lie: 'tis the wife that is wanting."

 Thereupon spoke the good mother, and thus with intelligence answered:
 "Son, not greater thy wish to bring thee a bride to thy chamber,
 That thou mayst find thy nights a beautiful part of existence,
 And that the work of the day may gain independence and freedom,
 Than is thy father's wish too, and thy mother's. We always have counselled,--
 Yea, we have even insisted,--that thou shouldst select thee a maiden.
 But I was ever aware, and now my heart gives me assurance,
 That till the hour appointed is come, and the maiden appointed
 Shall with the hour appear, the choice will be left for the future,
 While more strong than all else will be fear of grasping the wrong one.
 If I may say it, my son, I believe thou already hast chosen;
 For thy heart has been touched, and been made more than wontedly tender.
 Speak it out honestly, then; for my soul has told me beforehand:
 That same maiden it is, the exile, whom thou hast elected."

 "Thou has said, mother!" the son thereupon with eagerness answered.
 "Yes, it is she; and if I to-day as my bride do not bring her
 Home to our dwelling, she from me will go, perhaps vanish for ever,
 Lost in the war's confusion and sad movings hither and thither.
 Mother, for ever in vain would then our abundant possessions
 Prosper before me, and seasons to come be in vain to me fruitful.
 Yea, I should hold in aversion the wonted house and the garden:
 Even my mother's love, alas! would not comfort my sorrow.
 Every tie, so I feel in my heart, by love is unloosened
 Soon as she fastens her own; and not the maid is it only
 Leaves behind father and mother, to follow the man she has chosen.
 He too, the youth, no longer knows aught of mother and father,
 When he the maiden, his only beloved, sees vanishing from him.
 Suffer me, then, to go hence wherever despair shall impel me:
 Since by my father himself the decisive words have been spoken;
 Since his house can no longer be mine if he shut out the maiden,
 Her whom alone as my bride I desire to bring to our dwelling."

 Thereupon quickly made answer the good and intelligent mother:
 "How like to rocks, forsooth, two men will stand facing each other!
 Proud and not to be moved, will neither draw near to his fellow;
 Neither will stir his tongue to utter the first word of kindness.
 Therefore I tell thee, my son, a hope yet lives in my bosom,
 So she be honest and good, thy father will let thee espouse her,
 Even though poor, and against a poor girl so decisive his sentence.
 Many a thing he is wont to speak out in his violent fashion
 Which he yet never performs; and so what he denies will consent to.
 Yet he requires a kindly word, and is right to require it: He is the father!
 Besides we know that his wrath after dinner,--
 When he most hastily speaks, and questions all others' opinions,--
 Signifies naught; the full force of his violent will is excited
 Then by the wine, which lets him not heed the language of others;
 None but himself does he see and feel. But now is come evening,
 Talk upon various subjects has passed between him and his neighbors.
 Gentle, he is; I am sure now his little excitement is over,
 And he can feel how unjust his passion has made him to others.
 Come, let us venture at once: success is alone to the valiant!
 Further we need the friends, still sitting together there with him;
 And in especial the worthy pastor will give us assistance."

 Thus she hastily spoke, and up from the stone then arising,
 Drew from his seat her son, who willingly followed. In silence
 Both descended the hill, their important purpose revolving.




POLYHYMNIA

THE CITIZEN OF THE WORLD

 HERE the three men, however, still sat conversing together,
 With mine host of the Lion, the village doctor, and pastor;
 And their talk was still on the same unvarying subject,
 Turning it this way and that, and viewing from every direction.
 But with his sober judgment the excellent pastor made answer:
 "Here will I not contradict you. I know that man should be always
 Striving for that which is better; indeed, as we see, he is reaching
 Always after the higher, at least some novelty craving.
 But be careful ye go not too far, for with this disposition
 Nature has given us pleasure in holding to what is familiar;
 Taught us in that to delight to which we have long been accustomed.
 Every condition is good that is founded on reason and nature.
 Many are man's desires, yet little it is that he needeth;
 Seeing the days are short and mortal destiny bounded.
 Ne'er would I censure the man whom a restless activity urges,
 Bold and industrious, over all pathways of land and of ocean,
 Ever untiring to roam; who takes delight in the riches,
 Heaping in generous abundance about himself and his children.
 Yet not unprized by me is the quiet citizen also,
 Making the noiseless round of his own inherited acres,
 Tilling the ground as the ever-returning seasons command him.
 Not with every year is the soil transfigured about him;
 Not in haste does the tree stretch forth, as soon as 'tis planted,
 Full-grown arms towards heaven and decked with plenteous blossoms.
 No: man has need of patience, and needful to him are also
 Calmness and clearness of mind, and a pure and right understanding.
 Few are the seeds he intrusts to earth's all-nourishing bosom;
 Few are the creatures he knows how to raise and bring to perfection.
 Centred are all his thoughts alone on that which is useful.
 Happy to whom by nature a mind of such temper is given,
 For he supports us all! And hail, to the man whose abode is
 Where in a town the country pursuits with the city are blended.
 On him lies not the pressure that painfully hampers the farmer,
 Nor is he carried away by the greedy ambition of cities;
 Where they of scanty possessions too often are given to aping,
 Wives and daughters especially, those who are higher and richer.
 Blessed be therefore thy son in his life of quiet employment;
 Blessed the wife, of like mind with himself, whom he one day shall choose him."

 Thus he spoke; and scarce had he ended when entered the mother,
 Holding her son by the hand, and so led him up to her husband.
 "Father," she said, "how oft when we two have been chatting together,
 Have we rejoiced in the thought of Hermann's future espousal,
 When he should bring his bride to be the light of our dwelling!
 Over and over again the matter we pondered: this maiden
 Fixing upon for him first, and then that, with the gossip of parents.
 But that day is now come; and Heaven at last has the maiden
 Brought to him hither, and shown him; and now his heart has decided.
 Said we not always then he should have his own choice in the matter?
 Was it not just now thy wish that he might with lively affection
 Feel himself drawn to some maiden? The hour is come that we hoped for.
 Yes; he has felt and has chosen and come to a manly decision.
 That same maiden it is that met him this morning, the stranger:
 Say he may have her, or else, as he swears, his life shall be single."

 "Give her me, father," so added the son: "my heart has elected
 Clear and sure; she will be to you both the noblest of daughters."

 But the father was silent. Then hastily rose the good pastor,
 Took up the word and said: "The moment alone is decisive;
 Fixes the life of man, and his future destiny settles.
 After long taking of counsel, yet only the work of a moment
 Every decision must be; and the wise alone seizes the right one.
 Dangerous always it is comparing the one with the other
 When we are making our choice, and so confusing our feelings.
 Hermann is pure. From childhood up I have known him, and never
 E'en as a boy was he wont to be reaching for this and the other:
 What he desired was best for him too, and he held to it firmly.
 Be not surprised and alarmed that now has appeared of a sudden,
 What thou hast wished for so long. It is true that the present appearance
 Bears not the form of the wish, exactly as thou hadst conceived it:
 For our wishes oft hide from ourselves the object we wish for;
 Gifts come down from above in the shapes appointed by Heaven.
 Therefore misjudge not the maiden who now of thy dearly beloved,
 Good and intelligent son has been first to touch the affections:
 Happy to whom at once his first love's hand shall be given,
 And in whose heart no tenderest wish must secretly languish.
 Yes: his whole bearing assures me that now his fate is decided.
 Genuine love matures in a moment the youth into manhood;
 He is not easily moved; and I fear that if this be refused him,
 Sadly his years will go by, those years that should be the fairest,"

 Straightway then in a thoughtful tone the doctor made answer,
 On whose tongue for a long time past the words had been trembling:
 "Pray let us here as before pursue the safe middle course only.
 Make haste slowly: that was Augustus the emperor's motto.
 Willingly I myself place at my well-beloved neighbor's disposal,
 Ready to do him what service I can with my poor understanding.
 Youth most especially stands in need of some one to guide it.
 Let me therefore go forth that I may examine the maiden,
 And may question the people among whom she lives and who know her.
 Me 'tis not easy to cheat: I know how words should be valued."

 Straightway the son broke in, and with wing'ed words made he answer:
 "Do so, neighbor, and go and make thine inquiries; but with thee
 I should be glad if our minister here were joined in the errand:
 Two such excellent men would be irreproachable judges.
 O my father! believe me, she's none of those wandering maidens,
 Not one of those who stroll through the land in search of adventure,
 And who seek to ensnare inexperienced youth in their meshes.
 No: the hard fortunes of war, that universal destroyer,
 Which is convulsing the earth and has hurled from its deep foundations
 Many a structure already, have sent the poor girl into exile.
 Are not now men of high birth, the most noble, in misery roaming?
 Princes fly in disguise and kings are in banishment living.
 So alas! also is she, the best among all of her sisters,
 Driven an exile from home; yet, her personal sorrows forgetting,
 She is devoted to others; herself without help, she is helpful.
 Great is the want and the suffering over the earth that are spreading:
 Shall not some happiness, too, be begotten of all this affliction,
 And shall not I in the arms of my wife, my trusted companion,
 Look back with joy to the war, as do ye to the great conflagration?"

 Outspoke the father then in a tone of decision, and answered:
 "Strangely thy tongue has been loosened, my son, which many a year past
 Seemed to have stuck in thy mouth, and only to move on compulsion!
 I must experience to-day, it would seem, what threatens all fathers,
 That the son's headstrong will the mother with readiness favors,
 Showing too easy indulgence; and every neighbor sides with them
 When there is aught to be carried against the father and husband.
 But I will not oppose you, thus banded together: how could I?
 For I already perceive here tears and defiance beforehand.
 Go ye therefore, inquire, in God's name, bring me the daughter.
 But if not so, then the boy is to think no more of the maiden."

 Thus the father. The son cried out with joyful demeanor,
 "Ere it is evening the noblest of daughters shall hither be brought you,
 Such as no man with sound sense in his breast can fail to be pleased with.
 Happy, I venture to hope, will be also the excellent maiden.
 Yes; she will ever be grateful for having had father and mother
 Given once more in you, and such as a child most delights in.
 Now I will tarry no longer, but straightway harness the horses,
 Drive forth our friends at once on the footsteps of my beloved,
 Leaving them then to act for themselves, as their wisdom shall dictate,
 Guide myself wholly, I promise, according to what they determine,
 And, until I may call her my own, ne'er look on the maiden."
 Thus he went forth: the others meanwhile remained in discussion,
 Rapid and earnest, considering deeply their great undertaking.

 Hermann hasted straightway to the stable, where quietly standing
 Found he the spirited stallions, the clean oats quickly devouring,
 And the well-dried hay that was cut from the richest of meadows.
 On them without delay the shining bits he adjusted,
 Hastily drew the straps through the buckles of beautiful plating,
 Firmly fastened then the long broad reins, and the horses
 Led without to the court-yard, whither the willing assistant
 Had with ease, by the pole, already drawn forward the carriage.
 Next to the whipple-tree they with care by the neatly kept traces
 Joined the impetuous strength of the freely travelling horses.
 Whip in hand took Hermann his seat and drove under the doorway.
 Soon as the friends straightway their commodious places had taken,
 Quickly the carriage rolled off, and left the pavement behind it,
 Left behind it the walls of the town and the fresh-whitened towers.
 Thus drove Hermann on till he came to the well-known causeway.
 Rapidly, loitering nowhere, but hastening up hill and down hill.
 But as he now before him perceived the spire of the village,
 And no longer remote the garden-girt houses were lying,
 Then in himself he thought that here he would rein up the horses.

 Under the solemn shade of lofty linden-trees lying,
 Which for centuries past upon this spot had been rooted,
 Spread in front of the village a broad and grass-covered common,
 Favorite place of resort for the peasants and neighboring townsfolk.
 Here, at the foot of the trees, sunk deep in the ground was a well-spring;
 When you descended the steps, stone benches you found at the bottom,
 Stationed about the spring, whose pure, living waters were bubbling
 Ceaselessly forth, hemmed in by low walls for convenience of drawing.
 Hermann resolved that here he would halt, with his horses and carriage,
 Under the shade of the trees. He did so, and said to the others;
 "Here alight, my friends, and go your ways to discover
 Whether the maiden in truth be worthy the hand that I offer.
 That, she is so, I believe; naught new or strange will ye tell me.
 Had I to act for myself, I should go with speed to the village,
 Where a few words from the maiden's own lips should determine my fortune.
 Ye will with readiness single her out from all of the others,
 For there can scarcely be one that to her may be likened in bearing.
 But I will give you, besides, her modest attire for a token:
 Mark, then, the stomacher's scarlet, that sets off the arch of her bosom,
 Prettily laced, and the bodice of black fitting close to her figure;
 Neatly the edge of her kerchief is plaited into a ruffle,
 Which with a simple grace her chin's rounded outline encircles;
 Freely and lightly rises above it the head's dainty oval;
 And her luxuriant hair over silver bodkins is braided;
 Down from under her bodice, the full, blue petticoat falling,
 Wraps itself, when she is walking, about her neatly shaped ankles.
 Yet one thing will I say, and would make it my earnest petition,--
 Speak not yourselves with the maiden, nor let your intent be discovered;
 Rather inquire of others, and hearken to what they may tell you.
 When ye have tidings enough to satisfy father and mother,
 Then return to me here, and we will consider what further.
 So did I plan it all out in my mind while driving you hither."

 Thus he spoke. The friends thereupon went their way to the village,
 Where, in the houses and gardens and barns, the people were swarming;
 Wagons on wagons stood crowded together along the broad highway.
 Men for the harnessed horses and lowing cattle were caring,
 While the women were busy in drying their clothes on the hedges,
 And in the running brook the children were merrily splashing.
 Making their way through the pressure of wagons, of people and cattle,
 Went the commissioned spies, and to right and to left looked about them,
 If they a figure might see that answered the maiden's description;
 But not one of them all appeared the beautiful damsel.
 Denser soon grew the press. A contest arose round the wagons
 'Mongst the threatening men, wherein blended the cries of the women.
 Rapidly then to the spot, and with dignified step, came an elder,
 Joined the clamoring group, and straightway the uproar was silenced,
 As he commanded peace, and rebuked with a fatherly sternness.
 "Has, then, misfortune," he cried, "not yet so bound us together,
 That we have finally learned to bear and forbear one another,
 Though each one, it may be, do not measure his share of the labor?
 He that is happy, forsooth, is contentious! Will sufferings never
 Teach you to cease from your brawls of old between brother and brother?
 Grudge not one to another a place on the soil of the stranger;
 Rather divide what ye have, as yourselves, ye would hope to find mercy."

 Thus spoke the man and all became silent: restored to good humor,
 Peaceably then the people arranged their cattle and wagons.
 But when the clergyman now had heard what was said by the stranger,
 And had the steadfast mind of the foreign justice discovered,
 He to the man drew near and with words of meaning addressed him:
 "True it is, father, that when in prosperity people are living,
 Feeding themselves from the earth, which far and wide opens her bosom,
 And in the years and months renews the coveted blessings,--
 All goes on of itself, and each himself deems the wisest,
 Deems the best, and so they continue abiding together,
 He of greatest intelligence ranking no higher than others;
 All that occurs, as if of itself, going quietly forward.
 But let disaster unsettle the usual course of existence,
 Tear down the buildings about us, lay waste the crops and the garden,
 Banish the husband and wife from their old, familiar-grown dwelling,
 Drive them to wander abroad through nights and days of privation,--
 Then, ah then! we look round us to see what man is the wisest,
 And no longer in vain his glorious words will be spoken.
 Tell me, art thou not judge among this fugitive people,
 Father, who thus in an instant canst bid their passions be quiet?
 Thou dost appear to-day as one of those earliest leaders,
 Who through deserts and wanderings guided the emigrant nations.
 Yea, I could even believe I were speaking with Joshua or Moses."

 Then with serious look the magistrate answered him, saying:
 "Truly our times might well be compared with all others in strangeness,
 Which are in history mentioned, profane or sacred tradition;
 For who has yesterday lived and to-day in times like the present,
 He has already lived years, events are so crowded together.
 If I look back but a little, it seems that my head must be hoary
 Under the burden of years, and yet my strength is still active.
 Well may we of this day compare ourselves unto that people
 Who, from the burning bush, beheld in the hour of their danger
 God the Lord: we also in cloud and in fire have beheld him."

 Seeing the priest was inclined to speak yet more with the stranger,
 And was desirous of learning his story and that of his people,
 Privately into his ear his companion hastily whispered:
 "Talk with the magistrate further, and lead him to speak of the maiden.
 I, however, will wander in search, and as soon as I find her,
 Come and report to thee here." The minister nodded, assenting;
 And through the gardens, hedges, and barns, went the spy on his errand.




CLIO

THE AGE

 Now when the foreign judge had been by the minister questioned
 As to his people's distress, and how long their exile had lasted,
 Thus made answer the man: "Of no recent date are our sorrows;
 Since of the gathering bitter of years our people have drunken,--
 Bitterness all the more dreadful because such fair hope had been blighted.
 Who will pretend to deny that his heart swelled high in his bosom,
 And that his freer breast with purer pulses was beating;
 When we beheld the new sun arise in his earliest splendor,
 When of the rights of men we heard, which to all should be common,
 Were of a righteous equality told, and inspiriting freedom?
 Every one hoped that then he should live his own life, and the fetters,
 Binding the various lands, appeared their hold to be loosing,--
 Fetters that had in the hand of sloth been held and self-seeking.
 Looked not the eyes of all nations, throughout that calamitous season,
 Towards the world's capital city, for so it had long been considered,
 And of that glorious title was now, more than ever, deserving?

 "Were not the names of those men who first delivered the message,
 Names to compare with the highest that under the heavens are spoken?
 Did not, in every man, grow courage and spirit and language?
 And, as neighbors, we, first of all, were zealously kindled.
 Thereupon followed the war, and armed bodies of Frenchmen
 Pressed to us nearer; yet nothing but friendship they seemed to be bringing;
 Ay, and they brought it too; for exalted the spirit within them:
 They with rejoicing the festive trees of liberty planted,
 Promising every man what was his own, and to each his own ruling.
 High beat the heart of the youths, and even the aged were joyful;
 Gaily the dance began about the newly raised standard.
 Thus had they speedily won, these overmastering Frenchmen,
 First the spirits of men by the fire and dash of their bearing,
 Then the hearts of the women with irresistible graces.
 Even the pressure of hungry war seemed to weigh on us lightly,
 So before our vision did hope hang over the future,
 Luring our eyes abroad into newly opening pathways.
 Oh, how joyful the time when with her belov'ed the maiden
 Whirls in the dance, the longed-for day of their union awaiting!
 But more glorious that day on which to our vision the highest
 Heart of man can conceive seemed near and attainable to us.
 Loosened was every tongue, and men--the aged, the stripling--
 Spoke aloud in words that were full of high feeling and wisdom.
 Soon, however, the sky was o'ercast. A corrupt generation
 Fought for the right of dominion, unworthy the good to establish;
 So that they slew one another, their new-made neighbors and brothers
 Held in subjection, and then sent the self-seeking masses against us.
 Chiefs committed excesses and wholesale plunder upon us,
 While those lower plundered and rioted down to the lowest:
 Every one seemed but to care that something be left for the morrow.
 Great past endurance the need, and daily grew the oppression:
 They were the lords of the day; there was none to hear our complaining.
 Then fell trouble and rage upon even the quietest spirit.
 One thought only had all, and swore for their wrongs to have vengeance,
 And for the bitter loss of their hope thus doubly deluded.
 Presently Fortune turned and declared on the side of the German,
 And with hurried marches the French retreated before us.
 Ah! then as never before did we feel the sad fortunes of warfare:
 He that is victor is great and good,--or at least he appears SO,--
 And he, as one of his own, will spare the man he has conquered,
 Him whose service he daily needs, and whose property uses.
 But no law the fugitive knows, save of self-preservation,
 And, with a reckless greed, consumes all the possessions about him;
 Then are his passions also inflamed: the despair that is in him
 Out of his heart breaks forth, and takes shape in criminal action.
 Nothing is further held sacred; but all is for plunder. His craving
 Turns in fury on woman, and pleasure is changed into horror.
 Death he sees everywhere round him, and madly enjoys his last moments,

 "Taking delight in blood, in the shrieking of anguish exulting.
 Thereupon fiercely arose in our men the stern resolution
 What had been lost to avenge, and defend whate'er was remaining,
 Every man sprang to his arms, by the flight of the foeman encouraged,
 And by his blanching cheeks, and his timorous, wavering glances.
 Ceaselessly now rang out the clanging peal of the tocsin.
 Thought of no danger to come restrained their furious anger.
 Quick into weapons of war the husbandman's peaceful utensils
 All were converted; dripped with blood the scythe and the ploughshare.
 Quarter was shown to none: the enemy fell without mercy.
 Fury everywhere raged and the cowardly cunning of weakness.
 Ne'er may I men so carried away by injurious passion
 See again! the sight of the raging wild beast would be better.
 Let not man prattle of freedom, as if himself he could govern!
 Soon as the barriers are torn away, then all of the evil
 Seems let loose, that by law had been driven deep back into corners."

 "Excellent man!" thereupon with emphasis answered the pastor:
 "Though thou misjudgest mankind, yet can I not censure thee for it.
 Evil enough, I confess, thou hast had to endure from man's passions,
 Yet wouldst thou look behind over this calamitous season,
 Thou wouldst acknowledge thyself how much good thou also hast witnessed.
 How many excellent things that would in the heart have hidden,
 Had not danger aroused them, and did not necessity's pressure
 Bring forth the angel in man, and make him a god of deliv'rance."

 Thereupon answered and said the reverend magistrate, smiling:
 "There thou remindest me aptly of how we console the poor fellow,
 After his house has been burned, by recounting the gold and the silver
 Melted and scattered abroad in the rubbish, that still is remaining.
 Little enough, it is true; but even that little is precious.
 Then will the poor wretch after it dig and rejoice if he find it.
 Thus I likewise with happier thoughts will gratefully turn me
 Towards the few beautiful deeds of which I preserve the remembrance.
 Yes, I will not deny, I have seen old quarrels forgotten,
 Ill to avert from the state; I also have witnessed how friendship,
 Love of parent and child, can impossibilities venture;
 Seen how the stripling at once matured into man; how the aged
 Grew again young; and even the child into youth was developed,
 Yea, and the weaker sex too, as we are accustomed to call it,
 Showed itself brave and strong and ready for every emergence.
 Foremost among them all, one beautiful deed let me mention,
 Bravely performed by the hand of a girl, an excellent maiden;
 Who, with those younger than she, had been left in charge of a farmhouse,
 Since there, also, the men had marched against the invader.
 Suddenly fell on the house a fugitive band of marauders,
 Eager for booty, who crowded straightway to the room of the women.

 "There they beheld the beautiful form of the fully grown maiden,
 Looked on the charming young girls, who rather might still be called children.
 Savage desire possessed them; at once with merciless passion
 They that trembling band assailed and the high-hearted maiden.
 But she had snatched in an instant the sword of one from its scabbard,
 Felled him with might to the ground, and stretched him bleeding before her.
 Then with vigorous strokes she bravely delivered the maidens,
 Smiting yet four of the robbers; who saved themselves only by flying.
 Then she bolted the gates, and, armed, awaited assistance."

 Now when this praise the minister heard bestowed on the maiden,
 Rose straightway for his friend a feeling of hope in his bosom,
 And he had opened his lips to inquire what further befell her,
 If on this mournful flight she now with her people were present;
 When with a hasty step the village doctor approached them,
 Twitched the clergyman's coat, and said in his ear in a whisper:
 "I have discovered the maiden at last among several hundreds;
 By the description I knew her, so come, let thine own eyes behold her!
 Bring too the magistrate with thee, that so we may hear him yet further."
 But as they turned to go, the justice was summoned to leave them,
 Sent for by some of his people by whom his counsel was needed.

 Straightway the preacher, however, the lead of the doctor had followed
 Up to a gap in the fence where his finger he meaningly pointed.
 "Seest thou the maiden?" he said: "she has made some clothes for the baby
 Out of the well-known chintz,--I distinguish it plainly; and further
 There are the covers of blue that Hermann gave in his bundle.
 Well and quickly, forsooth, she has turned to advantage the presents.
 Evident tokens are these, and all else answers well the description.
 Mark how the stomacher's scarlet sets off the arch of her bosom,
 Prettily laced, and the bodice of black fits close to her figure;
 Neatly the edge of her kerchief is plaited into a ruffle,
 Which, with a simple grace, her chin's rounded outline encircles;
 Freely and lightly rises above it the bead's dainty oval,
 And her luxuriant hair over silver bodkins is braided.
 Now she is sitting, yet still we behold her majestical stature,
 And the blue petticoat's ample plaits, that down from her bosom
 Hangs in abundant folds about her neatly shaped ankles,
 She without question it is; come, therefore, and let us discover
 Whether she honest and virtuous be, a housewifely maiden."

 Then, as the seated figure he studied, the pastor made answer:
 "Truly, I find it no wonder that she so enchanted the stripling,
 Since, to a man's experienced eye, she seems lacking in nothing.
 Happy to whom mother Nature a shape harmonious has given!

 "Such will always commend him, and he can be nowhere a stranger.
 All approach with delight, and all are delighted to linger,
 If to the outward shape correspond but a courteous spirit.
 I can assure thee, in her the youth has found him a maiden,
 Who, in the days to come, his life shall gloriously brighten,
 Standing with womanly strength in every necessity by him.
 Surely the soul must be pure that inhabits a body so perfect,
 And of a happy old age such vigorous youth is the promise."

 Thereupon answered and said the doctor in language of caution:
 "Often appearances cheat; I like not to trust to externals.
 For I have oft seen put to the test the truth of the proverb:
 Till thou a bushel of salt with a new acquaintance hast eaten,
 Be not too ready to trust him; for time alone renders thee certain
 How ye shall fare with each other, and how well your friendship shall prosper.
 Let us then rather at first make inquiries among the good people
 By whom the maiden is known, and who can inform us about her."

 "Much I approve of thy caution," the preacher replied as he followed.
 "Not for ourselves is the suit, and 'tis delicate wooing for others."

 Towards the good magistrate, then, the men directed their footsteps,
 Who was again ascending the street in discharge of his duties.

 Him the judicious pastor at once addressed and with caution.
 "Look! we a maiden have here descried in the neighboring garden,
 Under an apple-tree sitting, and making up garments for children

 "Out of second-hand stuff that somebody doubtless has given;
 And we were pleased with her aspect: she seems like a girl to be trusted.
 Tell us whatever thou knowest: we ask it with honest intentions."

 Soon as the magistrate nearer had come, and looked into the garden,
 "Her thou knowest already," he said; "for when I was telling
 Of the heroic deed performed by the hand of that maiden,
 When she snatched the man's sword, and delivered herself and her charges,
 This was the one! she is vigorous born, as thou seest by her stature;
 Yet she is good as strong, for her aged kinsman she tended
 Until the day of his death, which was finally hastened by sorrow
 Over his city's distress, and his own endangered possessions.
 Also, with quiet submission, she bore the death of her lover,
 Who a high-spirited youth, in the earliest flush of excitement,
 Kindled by lofty resolve to fight for a glorious freedom,
 Hurried to Paris, where early a terrible death he encountered.
 For as at home, so there, his foes were deceit and oppression."

 Thus the magistrate spoke. The others saluted and thanked him,
 And from his purse a gold-piece the pastor drew forth:--for the silver
 He had some hours before already in charity given,
 When he in mournful groups had seen the poor fugitives passing;--
 And to the magistrate handed it, saying: "Apportion the money
 'Mongst thy destitute people, and God vouchsafe it an increase."
 But the stranger declined it, and, answering, said: "We have rescued
 Many a dollar among us, with clothing and other possessions,
 And shall return, as I hope, ere yet our stock is exhausted."

 Then the pastor replied, and pressed the money upon him:
 "None should be backward in giving in days like the present, and no one
 Ought to refuse to accept those gifts which in kindness are offered.
 None can tell how long he may hold what in peace he possesses,
 None how much longer yet he shall roam through the land of the stranger,
 And of his farm be deprived, and deprived of the garden that feeds him."

 "Ay, to be sure!" in his bustling way interrupted the doctor:
 "If I had only some money about me, ye surely should have it,
 Little and big; for certainly many among you must need it.
 Yet I'll not go without giving thee something to show what my will is,
 Even though sadly behind my good-will must lag the performance."
 Thus, as he spoke, by its straps his embroidered pocket of leather,
 Where his tobacco was kept, he drew forth,--enough was now in it
 Several pipes to fill,--and daintily opened, and portioned.
 "Small is the gift," he added. The justice, however, made answer:
 "Good tobacco can ne'er to the traveller fail to be welcome."
 Then did the village doctor begin to praise his canister.

 But the clergyman drew him away, and they quitted the justice.
 "Let us make haste," said the thoughtful man: "the youth's waiting in torture;
 Come I let him hear, as soon as he may, the jubilant tidings."

 So they hastened their steps, and came to where under the lindens
 Hermann against the carriage was leaning. The horses were stamping
 Wildly the turf; he held them in check, and, buried in musing,
 Stood, into vacancy gazing before him; nor saw the two envoys,
 Till, as they came, they called out and made to him signals of triumph.
 E'en as far off as they then were, the doctor began to address him;
 But they were presently nearer come and then the good pastor
 Grasped his hand and exclaimed, interrupting the word of his comrade:
 "Hail to thee, O young man! thy true eye and heart have well chosen;
 Joy be to thee and the wife of thy youth; for of thee she is worthy.
 Come then and turn us the wagon, and drive straightway to the village,
 There the good maid to woo, and soon bring her home to thy dwelling."

 Still, however, the young man stood, without sign of rejoicing
 Hearing his messenger's words, though heavenly they were and consoling.
 Deeply he sighed as he said: "With hurrying wheels we came hither,
 And shall be forced, perchance, to go mortified homeward and slowly.
 For disquiet has fallen upon me since here I've been waiting,
 Doubt and suspicion and all that can torture the heart of a lover.
 Think ye we have but to come, and that then the maiden will follow
 Merely because we are rich, while she is poor and an exile?

 "Poverty, too, makes proud, when it comes unmerited! Active
 Seems she to be, and contented, and so of the world is she mistress.
 Think ye a maiden like her, with the manners and beauty that she has,
 Can into woman have grown, and no worthy man's love have attracted?
 Think ye that love until now can have been shut out from her bosom?
 Drive not thither too rashly: we might to our mortification
 Have to turn softly homewards our horses' heads. For my fear is
 That to some youth already this heart has been given; already
 This brave hand has been clasped, has pledged faith to some fortunate lover.
 Then with my offer, alas! I should stand in confusion before her."

 Straightway the pastor had opened his lips to speak consolation,
 When his companion broke in, and said in his voluble fashion:
 "Years ago, forsooth, unknown had been such a dilemma.
 All such affairs were then conducted in regular fashion.
 Soon as a bride for their son had been by the parents selected,
 First some family friend they into their councils would summon,
 Whom they afterwards sent as a suitor to visit the parents
 Of the elected bride. Arrayed in his finest apparel,
 Soon after dinner on Sunday he sought the respectable burgher,
 When some friendly words were exchanged upon general subjects,
 He knowing how to direct the discourse as suited his purpose.
 After much circumlocution he finally mentioned the daughter,
 Praising her highly; and praising the man and the house that had sent him.
 Persons of tact perceived his intent, and the politic envoy
 Readily saw how their minds were disposed, and explained himself further.
 Then were the offer declined, e'en the 'no' brought not mortification;
 But did it meet with success, the suitor was ever thereafter
 Made the chief guest in the house on every festive occasion.
 For, through the rest of their lives, the couple ne'er failed to remember
 That 'twas by his experienced hand the first knot had been gathered.
 All that, however, is changed, and, with many another good custom,
 Quite fallen out of the fashion; for every man woos for himself now.
 Therefore let every man hear to his face pronounced the refusal,
 If a refusal there be, and stand shamed in the sight of the maiden!"

 "Let that be as it may!" made answer the youth, who had scarcely
 Unto the words paid heed; but in silence had made his decision.
 "I will go thither myself, will myself hear my destiny spoken
 Out of the lips of a maiden in whom I a confidence cherish
 Greater than heart of man has e'er before cherished in woman.
 Say what she will, 'twill be good and wise; of that I am certain.
 Should I behold her never again, yet this once will I see her;
 Yet this once the clear gaze of those dark eyes will encounter,
 If I must press her ne'er to my heart, yet that neck and that bosom
 Will I behold once more, that my arm so longs to encircle;
 Once more that mouth will see, whose kiss and whose 'yes' would for ever
 Render me happy, from which a 'no' will for ever destroy me.
 But ye must leave me alone. Do not wait for me here; but return ye
 Back to my father and mother again, and give them the knowledge
 That their son has not been deceived, that the maiden is worthy.
 So then leave me alone! I shall follow the footpath that crosses
 Over the hill by the pear-tree, and thence descends through our vineyard,
 Taking a shorter way home. And oh, may I bring to our dwelling,
 Joyful and quick my beloved! but perhaps I alone may come creeping
 Over that path to the house, and ne'er again tread it with gladness."

 Thus he spoke, and gave up the reins to the hand of the pastor,
 Who understandingly grasped them, the foaming horses controlling,
 Speedily mounted the carriage, and sat in the seat of the driver.

 But thou didst hesitate, provident neighbor, and say in remonstrance:
 "Heart and soul and spirit, my friend, I willingly trust thee;
 But as for life and limb, they are not in the safest of keeping,
 When the temporal reins are usurped by the hand of the clergy."

 But thou didst laugh at his words, intelligent pastor, and answer:
 "Sit thee down, and contentedly trust me both body and spirit;
 For, in holding the reins, my hand grew long ago skilful,
 Long has my eye been trained in making the nicest of turnings;
 For we were practised well in driving the carriage in Strasburg,
 When I the youthful baron accompanied thither; then daily
 Rolled the carriage, guided by me, through the echoing gateway,
 Out over dusty roads till we reached the meadows and lindens,
 Steering through groups of the town's-folk beguiling the day there with walking."

 Thereupon, half-reassured, the neighbor ascended the wagon,
 Sat like one who for a prudent leap is holding him ready,
 And the stallions sped rapidly homeward, desiring their stable.
 Clouds of dust whirled up from under their powerful hoofbeats.
 Long the youth stood there yet, and saw the dust in its rising,
 Saw the dust as it settled again: he stood there unheeding.




ERATO

DOROTHEA

 Like as the traveller, who, when the sun is approaching its setting,
 Fixes his eyes on it once again ere quickly it vanish,
 Then on the sides of the rocks, and on all the darkening bushes,
 Sees its hovering image; whatever direction he look in
 That hastes before, and flickers and gleams in radiant colors,--
 So before Hermann's eyes moved the beautiful shape of the maiden
 Softly, and seeming to follow the path that led into the cornfield.
 But he aroused from his wildering dream and turned himself slowly
 Towards where the village lay and was wildered again; for again came
 Moving to meet him the lofty form of the glorious maiden.
 Fixedly gazed he upon her; herself it was and no phantom.
 Bearing in either hand a larger jar and a smaller,
 Each by the handle, with busy step she came on to the fountain.
 Joyfully then he hastened to meet her; the sight of her gave him
 Courage and strength; and thus the astonished girl he accosted:
 "Do I then find thee, brave-hearted maiden, so soon again busy,
 Rendering aid unto others, and happy in bringing them comfort?
 Say why thou comest alone to this well which lies at such a distance,
 When all the rest are content with the water they find in the village?
 This has peculiar virtues, 'tis true; and the taste is delicious.
 Thou to that mother wouldst bring it, I trow, whom thy faithfulness rescued."

 Straightway with cordial greeting the kindly maiden made answer:
 "Here has my walk to the spring already been amply rewarded,
 Since I have found the good friend who bestowed so abundantly on us;
 For a pleasure not less than the gifts is the sight of the giver.
 Come, I pray thee, and see for thyself who has tasted thy bounty;
 Come, and the quiet thanks receive of all it has solaced.
 But that thou straightway the reason mayst know for which I am hither
 Come to draw, where pure and unfailing the water is flowing,
 This I must tell thee,--that all the water we have in the village
 Has by improvident people been troubled with horses and oxen
 Wading direct through the source which brings the inhabitants water.
 And furthermore they have also made foul with their washings and rinsings
 All the troughs of the village, and all the fountains have sullied;
 For but one thought is in all, and that how to satisfy quickest
 Self and the need of the moment, regardless of what may come after."

 Thus she spoke, and the broad stone steps meanwhile had descended
 With her companion beside her, and on the low wall of the fountain
 Both sat them down. She bent herself over to draw, and he also
 Took in his hand the jar that remained, and bent himself over,
 And in the blue of the heavens, they, seeing their image reflected,
 Friendly greetings and nods exchanged in the quivering mirror.

 "Give me to drink," the youth thereupon in his gladness petitioned,
 And she handed the pitcher. Familiarly sat they and rested,
 Both leaning over their jars, till she presently asked her companion:
 "Tell me, why I find thee here, and without thy horses and wagon,
 Far from the place where I met thee at first? how camest thou hither?"

 Thoughtful he bent his eyes on the ground, then quietly raised them
 Up to her face, and, meeting with frankness the gaze of the maiden,
 Felt himself solaced and stilled. But then impossible was it,
 That he of love should speak; her eye told not of affection,
 Only of clear understanding, requiring intelligent answer.
 And he composed himself quickly, and cordially said to the maiden:
 "Hearken to me, my child, and let me reply to thy question.
 'Twas for thy sake that hither I came; why seek to conceal it?
 Know I live happy at home with both my affectionate parents,
 Faithfully giving my aid their house and estates in directing,
 Being an only son, and because our affairs are extensive.
 Mine is the charge of the farm; my father bears rule in the household;
 While the presiding spirit of all is the diligent mother.
 But thine experience doubtless has taught thee how grievously servants,
 Now through deceit, and now through their carelessness, harass the mistress,
 Forcing her ever to change and replace one fault with another.
 Long for that reason my mother has wished for a maid in the household,
 Who not with hand alone, but with heart, too, will lend her assistance,
 Taking the daughter's place, whom, alas! she was early deprived of.
 How when to-day by the wagon I saw thee, so ready and cheerful,
 Witnessed the strength of thine arms, and thy limbs of such healthful proportion,
 When thy intelligent speech I heard, I was smitten with wonder.
 Hastening homeward, I there to my parents and neighbors the stranger
 Praised as she well deserved. But I now am come hither to tell thee
 What is their wish as mine.--Forgive me my stammering language."

 "Hesitate not," she, answering, said, "to tell me what follows.
 Thou dost not give me offence; I have listened with gratitude to thee:
 Speak it out honestly therefore; the sound of it will not alarm me.
 Thou wouldst engage me as servant to wait on thy father and mother,
 And to look after the well-ordered house of which ye are the owners;
 And thou thinkest in me to find them a capable servant,
 One who is skilled in her work, and not of a rude disposition.
 Short thy proposal has been, and short shall be also my answer.
 Yes, I will go with thee home, and the call of fate I will follow.
 Here my duty is done: I have brought the newly made mother
 Back to her kindred again, who are all in her safety rejoicing.
 Most of our people already are gathered; the others will follow.
 All think a few days more will certainly see them returning
 Unto their homes; for such is the exile's constant delusion.
 But by no easy hope do I suffer myself to be cheated
 During these sorrowful days which promise yet more days of sorrow.
 All the bands of the world have been loosed, and what shall unite them,
 Saving alone the need, the need supreme, that is on us?
 If in a good man's house I can earn my living by service,
 Under the eye of an excellent mistress, I gladly will do it;
 Since of doubtful repute, must be always a wandering maiden.
 Yes, I will go with thee, soon as I first shall have carried the pitchers
 Back to my friends, and prayed the good people to give me their blessing.
 Come thou must see them thyself, and from their hands must receive me."

 Joyfully hearkened the youth to the willing maiden's decision,
 Doubtful whether he ought not at once to make honest confession.
 Yet it appeared to him best to leave her awhile in her error,
 Nor for her love to sue, before leading her home to his dwelling.
 Ah! and the golden ring he perceived on the hand of the maiden,
 Wherefore he let her speak on, and gave diligent ear to her language.

 "Come," she presently said, "Let us back to the village; for maidens
 Always are sure to be blamed if they tarry too long at the fountain.
 Yet how delightful it is to chat by the murmuring water!"

 Then from their seats they rose, and both of them turned to the fountain
 One more look behind, and a tender longing possessed them.
 Both of the water-jars then in silence she took by the handle,
 Carried them up the steps, while behind her followed her lover.
 One of the pitchers he begged her to give him to lighten the burden.
 "Nay, let it be!" she said: "I carry them better so balanced.
 Nor shall the master, who is to command, be doing me service.
 Look not so gravely upon me, as thinking my fortune a hard one.
 Early a woman should learn to serve, for that is her calling;
 Since through service alone she finally comes to the headship,
 Comes to the due command that is hers of right in the household.
 Early the sister must wait on her brother, and wait on her parents;
 Life must be always with her a perpetual coming and going,
 Or be a fetching and carrying, making and doing for others.
 Happy for her be she wonted to think no way is too grievous,
 And if the hours of the night be to her as the hours of the daytime;
 If she find never a needle too fine, nor a labor too trifling;
 Wholly forgetful of self, and caring to live but in others!
 For she will surely, as mother, have need of every virtue,
 When, in the time of her illness, the cries of her infant arouse her
 Calling for food from her weakness, and cares are to suffering added.
 Twenty men bound into one were not able to bear such a burden;
 Nor is it meant that they should, yet should they with gratitude view it."

 Thus she spoke, and was come, meanwhile, with her silent companion,
 Far as the floor of the barn, at the furthermost end of the garden,
 Where was the sick woman lying, whom, glad, she had left with her daughters,
 Those late rescued maidens: fair pictures of innocence were they.
 Both of them entered the barn; and, e'en as they did so, the justice,
 Leading a child in each hand, came in from the other direction.
 These had been lost, hitherto, from the sight of their sorrowing mother;
 But in the midst of the crowd the old man now had descried them.
 Joyfully sprang they forward to meet their dear mother's embraces,
 And to salute with delight their brother, their unknown companion.
 Next upon Dorothea they sprang with affectionate greeting,
 Asking for bread and fruit, but more than all else for some water.
 So then she handed the water about; and not only the children
 Drank, but the sick woman too, and her daughters, and with them the justice.
 All were refreshed, and highly commended the glorious water;
 Acid it was to the taste, and reviving, and wholesome to drink of.

 Then with a serious face the maiden replied to them, saying:
 "Friends, for the last time now to your mouth have I lifted my pitcher;
 And for the last time by me have your lips been moistened with water.
 But henceforth in the heat of the day when the draught shall refresh you,
 When in the shade ye enjoy your rest beside a clear fountain,
 Think of me then sometimes and of all my affectionate service,
 Prompted more by my love than the duty I owed you as kindred.
 I shall acknowledge as long as I live the kindness ye've shown me.
 'Tis with regret that I leave you; but every one now is a burden,
 More than a help to his neighbor, and all must be finally scattered
 Far through a foreign land, if return to our homes be denied us.
 See, here stands the youth to whom we owe thanks for the presents.
 He gave the cloak for the baby, and all these welcome provisions.
 Now he is come, and has asked me if I will make one in his dwelling,
 That I may serve therein his wealthy and excellent parents.
 And I refuse not the offer; for maidens must always be serving;
 Burdensome were it for them to rest and be served in the household.
 Therefore I follow him gladly. A youth of intelligence seems he,
 And so will also the parents be, as becometh the wealthy.
 So then farewell, dear friend; and mayst thou rejoice in thy nursling,
 Living, and into thy face already so healthfully looking!
 When thou shalt press him against thy breast in these gay-colored wrappings,
 Oh, then remember the kindly youth who bestowed them upon us,
 And who me also henceforth, thy sister, will shelter and nourish.
 Thou, too, excellent man!" she said as she turned to the justice;
 "Take my thanks that in many a need I have found thee a father."
 Then she knelt down on the floor by the side of the newly made mother,
 Kissing the weeping woman, and taking her low-whispered blessing.
 Thou, meanwhile, worshipful justice, wast speaking to Hermann and saying:
 "Justly mayst thou, my friend, be counted among the good masters,
 Careful to manage their household affairs with capable servants.
 For I have often observed how in sheep, as in horses and oxen,
 Men conclude never a bargain without making closest inspection,
 While with a servant who all things preserves, if honest and able,
 And who will every thing lose and destroy, if he set to work falsely,
 Him will a chance or an accident make us admit to our dwelling,
 And we are left, when too late, to repent an o'er hasty decision.
 Thou understandest the matter it seems; because thou hast chosen,
 Thee and thy parents to serve in the house, a maid who is honest.
 Hold her with care; for as long as thy household is under her keeping,
 Thou shalt not want for a sister, nor yet for a daughter thy parents."

 Many were come, meanwhile, near relatives all of the mother,
 Bringing her various gifts, and more suitable quarters announcing.
 All of them, hearing the maiden's decision, gave Hermann their blessing,
 Coupled with glances of meaning, while each made his special reflections.
 Hastily one and another would say in the ear of his neighbor:
 "If in the master a lover she find, right well were she cared for."
 Hermann took her at last by the hand, and said as he did so:
 "Let us be going; the day is declining, and distant the city."
 Eager and voluble then the women embraced Dorothea;
 Hermann drew her away; but other adieus must be spoken:
 Lastly the children with cries fell upon her and terrible weeping,
 Clung to her garments, and would not their dear second mother should leave them.
 But in a tone of command the women said, one and another:
 "Hush now, children, she's going to the town, and will presently bring you
 Plenty of nice sweet cake that was by your brother bespoken
 When by the stork just now he was brought past the shop of the baker.
 Soon you will see her come back with sugar-plums splendidly gilded."
 Then did the little ones loose their hold, and Hermann, though hardly,
 Tore her from further embraces away, and far-waving kerchiefs.




MELPOMENE

HERMANN AND DOROTHEA

 Towards the setting sun the two thus went on their journey:
 Close he had wrapped himself round with clouds portending a tempest.
 Out from the veil, now here and now there, with fiery flashes,
 Gleaming over the field shot forth the ominous lightning.
 "May not these threatening heavens," said Hermann, "be presently sending
 Hailstones upon us and violent rains; for fair is the harvest."
 And in the waving luxuriant grain they delighted together:
 Almost as high it reached as the lofty shapes that moved through it.

 Thereupon spoke the maiden, and said to her guide and companion:
 "Friend, unto whom I soon am to owe so kindly a fortune,
 Shelter and home, while many an exile's exposed to the tempest,
 Tell me concerning thy parents, I pray thee, and teach me to know them,
 Them whom with all my heart I desire to serve in the future.
 Who understands his master, more easily gives satisfaction,
 Having regard to the things which to him seem chief in importance,
 And on the doing of which his firm-set mind is determined.
 Tell me therefore, I pray, how to win thy father and mother."

 And to her question made answer the good and intelligent Hermann:
 "Ah, what wisdom thou showest, thou good, thou excellent maiden,
 Asking thus first of all concerning the tastes of my parents!
 Know that in vain hitherto I have labored in serving my father,
 Taking upon me as were it my own, the charge of the household;
 Early and late at work in the fields, and o'erseeing the vineyard.
 But my mother I fully content, who can value my service;
 And thou wilt also appear in her eyes the worthiest of maidens,
 If for the house thou carest, as were it thine own thou wast keeping.
 Otherwise is it with father, who cares for the outward appearance.
 Do not regard me, good maiden, as one who is cold and unfeeling,
 That unto thee a stranger I straightway discover my father.
 Nay, I assure thee that never before have words such as these are
 Freely dropped from my tongue, which is not accustomed to prattle;
 But from out of my bosom thou lurest its every secret.
 Some of the graces of life my good father covets about him,
 Outward signs of affection he wishes, as well as of honor;
 And an inferior servant might possibly give satisfaction,
 Who could turn these to account, while he might be displeased with a better."

 Thereupon said she with joy, the while her hastening footsteps
 Over the darkening pathway with easy motion she quickened:
 "Truly I hope to them both I shall equally give satisfaction:
 For in thy mother's nature I find such an one as mine own is,
 And to the outward graces I've been from my childhood accustomed.
 Greatly was courtesy valued among our neighbors the Frenchmen,
 During their earlier days; it was common to noble and burgher,
 As to the peasant, and every one made it the rule of his household.
 So, on the side of us Germans, the children were likewise accustomed
 Daily to bring to their parents, with kissing of hands and with curtseys,
 Morning good-wishes, and all through the day to be prettily mannered.
 Every thing thus that I learned, and to which I've been used from my childhood,
 All that my heart shall suggest, shall be brought into play for thy father.
 But who shall tell me of thee, and how thyself shouldst be treated,
 Thou the only son of the house, and henceforth my master?"

 Thus she said, and e'en as she spoke they stood under the pear-tree.
 Down from the heavens the moon at her full was shedding her splendor.
 Night had come on, and wholly obscured was the last gleam of sunlight,
 So that contrasting masses lay side by side with each other,
 Clear and bright as the day, and black with the shadows of midnight;
 Gratefully fell upon Hermann's ear the kindly asked question
 Under the shade of the glorious tree, the spot he so treasured,
 Which but this morning had witnessed the tears he had shed for the exile.
 And while they sat themselves down to rest them here for a little,
 Thus spoke the amorous youth, as he grasped the hand of the maiden:
 "Suffer thy heart to make answer, and follow it freely in all things."
 Yet naught further he ventured to say although so propitious
 Seemed the hour: he feared he should only haste on a refusal.
 Ah, and he felt besides the ring on her finger, sad token!
 Therefore they sat there, silent and still, beside one another.

 First was the maiden to speak: "How sweet is this glorious moonlight!"
 Said she at length: "It is as the light of the day in its brightness.
 There in the city I plainly can see the houses and courtyards,
 And in the gable--methinks I can number its panes-is a window."

 "What thou seest," the modest youth thereupon made her answer,--
 "What thou seest is our dwelling, to which I am leading thee downward,
 And that window yonder belongs to my room in the attic,
 Which will be thine perhaps, for various changes are making.
 All these fields, too, are ours; they are ripe for the harvest to-morrow.
 Here in the shade we will rest, and partake of our noontide refreshment.
 But it is time we began our descent through the vineyard and garden;
 For dost thou mark how yon threatening storm-cloud comes nearer and nearer,
 Charged with lightning, and ready our fair full moon to extinguish?"

 So they arose from their seats, and over the cornfields descended,
 Through the luxuriant grain, enjoying the brightness of evening,
 Until they came to the vineyard, and so entered into its shadow.
 Then he guided her down o'er the numerous blocks that were lying,
 Rough and unhewn on the pathway, and served as the steps of the alley.
 Slowly the maiden descended, and leaning her hands on his shoulder,
 While with uncertain beams, the moon through the leaves overlooked them,
 Ere she was veiled by the cloud, and so left the couple in darkness.
 Carefully Hermann's strength supported the maid that hung o'er him;
 But, not knowing the path and the rough-hewn steps that led down it,
 Missed she her footing, her ankle turned, and she surely had fallen,
 Had not the dexterous youth his arm outstretched in an instant,
 And his beloved upheld. She gently sank on his shoulder;
 Breast was pressed against breast, and cheek against cheek. Thus he stood there
 Fixed as a marble statue, the force of will keeping him steadfast,
 Drew her not to him more closely, but braced himself under her pressure.
 Thus he the glorious burden felt, the warmth of her bosom,
 And the perfume of her breath, that over his lips was exhaling;
 Bore with the heart of a man the majestic form of the woman.

 But she with playfulness said, concealing the pain that she suffered:
 "That is a sign of misfortune, so timorous persons would tell us,
 When on approaching a house we stumble not far from the threshold;
 And for myself, I confess, I could wish for a happier omen.
 Let us here linger awhile that thy parents may not have to blame thee,
 Seeing a limping maid, and thou seem an incompetent landlord."




URANIA

PROSPECT

 Muses, O ye who the course of true love so willingly favor,
 Ye who thus far on his way the excellent youth have conducted,
 Even before the betrothal have pressed to his bosom the maiden;
 Further your aid vouchsafe this charming pair in uniting,
 Straightway dispersing the clouds which over their happiness lower!
 Yet first of all declare what is passing meanwhile at the Lion.

 Now for the third time again the mother impatient had entered
 Where were assembled the men, whom anxious but now she had quitted;
 Spoke of the gathering storm, and the moonlight's rapid obscuring;
 Then of her son's late tarrying abroad and the dangers of nightfall;
 Sharply upbraided her friends that without having speech of the maiden,
 And without urging his suit, they had parted from Hermann so early.

 "Make it not worse than it is," the father replied with displeasure.
 "For, as thou seest, we tarry ourselves and are waiting the issue."

 Calmly, however, from where he was sitting the neighbor made answer:
 "Never in hours of disquiet like this do I fail to be grateful
 Unto my late, blessed father, who every root of impatience
 Tore from my heart when a child, and left no fibre remaining;
 So that I learned on the instant to wait as do none of your sages."

 "Tell us," the pastor returned, "what legerdemain he made use of."
 "That will I gladly relate, for all may draw from it a lesson;"
 So made the neighbor reply. "When a boy I once stood of a Sunday
 Full of impatience, and looking with eagerness out for the carriage
 Which was to carry us forth to the spring that lies under the lindens.
 Still the coach came not. I ran, like a weasel, now hither, now thither,
 Up stairs and down, and forward and back, 'twixt the door and the window;
 Even my fingers itched to be moving; I scratched on the tables,
 Went about pounding and stamping, and hardly could keep me from weeping.
 All was observed by the calm-tempered man; but at last when my folly
 Came to be carried too far, by the arm he quietly took me,
 Led me away to the window, and spoke in this serious language:
 'Seest thou yonder the carpenter's shop that is closed for the Sunday?
 He will re-open to-morrow, when plane and saw will be started,
 And will keep on through the hours of labor from morning till evening.
 But consider you this,--a day will be presently coming
 When that man shall himself be astir and all of his workmen,
 Making a coffin for thee to be quickly and skilfully finished.
 Then that house of boards they will busily bring over hither,
 Which must at last receive alike the impatient and patient,
 And which is destined soon with close-pressing roof to be covered.'
 Straightway I saw the whole thing in my mind as if it were doing;
 Saw the boards fitting together, and saw the black color preparing,
 Sat me down patiently then, and in quiet awaited the carriage.
 Now when others I see, in seasons of anxious expectance,
 Running distracted about, I cannot but think of the coffin."

 Smiling, the pastor replied: "The affecting picture of death stands
 Not as a dread to the wise, and not as an end to the pious.
 Those it presses again into life, and teaches to use it;
 These by affliction it strengthens in hope to future salvation.
 Death becomes life unto both. Thy father was greatly mistaken
 When to a sensitive boy he death in death thus depicted.
 Let us the value of nobly ripe age, point out to the young man,
 And to the aged the youth, that in the eternal progression
 Both may rejoice, and life may in life thus find its completion."

 But the door was now opened, and showed the majestical couple.
 Filled with amaze were the friends, and amazed the affectionate parents,
 Seeing the form of the maid so well matched with that of her lover.
 Yea, the door seemed too low to allow the tall figures to enter,
 As they together now appeared coming over the threshold.

 Hermann, with hurried words, presented her thus to his parents:
 "Here is a maiden," he said; "such a one as ye wish in the household.
 Kindly receive her, dear father: she merits it well; and thou, mother,
 Question her straightway on all that belongs to a housekeeper's duty,
 That ye may see how well she deserves to ye both to be nearer."

 Quickly he then drew aside the excellent clergyman, saying:
 "Help me, O worthy sir, and speedily out of this trouble;
 Loosen, I pray thee, this knot, at whose untying I tremble.
 Know that 'tis not as a lover that I have brought hither the maiden;
 But she believes that as servant she comes to the house, and I tremble
 Lest in displeasure she fly as soon as there's mention of marriage.
 But be it straightway decided; for she no longer in error
 Thus shall be left, and I this suspense no longer can suffer.
 Hasten and show us in this a proof of the wisdom we honor."

 Towards the company then the clergyman instantly turned him;
 But already, alas! had the soul of the maiden been troubled,
 Hearing the father's speech; for he, in his sociable fashion,
 Had in these playful words, with the kindest intention addressed her:
 "Ay, this is well, my child! with delight I perceive that my Hermann
 Has the good taste of his father, who often showed his in his young days,
 Leading out always the fairest to dance, and bringing the fairest
 Finally home as his wife; our dear little mother here that was.
 For by the bride that a man shall elect we can judge what himself is,
 Tell what the spirit is in him, and whether he feel his own value.
 Nor didst thou need for thyself, I'll engage, much time for decision;
 For, in good sooth, methinks, he's no difficult person to follow."

 Hermann had heard but in part; his limbs were inwardly trembling,
 And of a sudden a stillness had fallen on all of the circle.

 But by these words of derision, for such she could not but deem them,
 Wounded, and stung to the depths of her soul, the excellent maiden,
 Stood, while the fugitive blood o'er her cheeks and e'en to her bosom,
 Poured its flush. But she governed herself, and her courage collecting,
 Answered the old man thus, her pain not wholly concealing:
 "Truly for such a reception thy son had in no wise prepared me,
 When he the ways of his father described, the excellent burgher.
 Thou art a man of culture, I know, before whom I am standing;
 Dealest with every one wisely, according as suits his position;
 But thou hast scanty compassion, it seems, on one such as I am,
 Who, a poor girl, am now crossing thy threshold with purpose to serve thee;
 Else, with such bitter derision, thou wouldst not have made me remember
 How far removed my fortune from that of thyself and thy son is.
 True, I come poor to thy house, and bring with me naught but my bundle
 Here where is every abundance to gladden the prosperous inmates.
 Yet I know well myself; I feel the relations between us,
 Say, is it noble, with so much of mockery straightway to greet me,
 That I am sent from the house while my foot is scarce yet on the threshold?"

 Anxiously Hermann turned and signed to his ally the pastor
 That he should rush to the rescue and straightway dispel the delusion.
 Then stepped the wise man hastily forward and looked on the maiden's
 Tearful eyes, her silent pain and repressed indignation,
 And in his heart was impelled not at once to clear up the confusion,
 Rather to put to the test the girl's disquieted spirit.
 Therefore he unto her said in language intended to try her:
 "Surely, thou foreign-born maiden, thou didst not maturely consider,
 When thou too rashly decidedst to enter the service of strangers,
 All that is meant by the placing thyself 'neath the rule of a master;
 For by our hand to a bargain the fate of the year is determined,
 And but a single 'yea' compels to much patient endurance.
 Not the worst part of the service the wearisome steps to be taken,
 Neither the bitter sweat of a labor that presses unceasing;
 Since the industrious freeman must toil as well as the servant.
 But 'tis to bear with the master's caprice when he censures unjustly,
 Or when, at variance with self, he orders now this, now the other;
 Bear with the petulance, too, of the mistress, easily angered,
 And with the rude, overbearing ways of unmannerly children.
 All this is hard to endure, and yet to go on with thy duties
 Quickly, without delay, nor thyself grow sullen and stubborn.
 Yet thou appearest ill fitted for this, since already so deeply
 Stung by the father's jests: whereas there is nothing more common
 Than for a girl to be teased on account of a youth she may fancy."

 Thus he spoke. The maiden had felt the full force of his language,
 And she restrained her no more; but with passionate outburst her feelings
 Made themselves way; a sob broke forth from her now heaving bosom,
 And, while the scalding tears poured down, she straightway made answer:
 "Ah, that rational man who thinks to advise us in sorrow,
 Knows not how little of power his cold words have in relieving
 Ever a heart from that woe which a sovereign fate has inflicted.
 Ye are prosperous and glad; how then should a pleasantry wound you?
 Yet but the lightest touch is a source of pain to the sick man.
 Nay, concealment itself, if successful, had profited nothing.
 Better show now what had later increased to a bitterer anguish,
 And to an inward consuming despair might perhaps have reduced me.
 Let me go back! for here in this house I can tarry no longer.
 I will away, and wander in search of my hapless companions,
 Whom I forsook in their need; for myself alone choosing the better.
 This is my firm resolve, and I therefore may make a confession
 Which might for years perhaps have else lain hid in my bosom.
 Deeply indeed was I hurt by the father's words of derision;
 Not that I'm sensitive, proud beyond what is fitting a servant;
 But that my heart in truth had felt itself stirred with affection
 Towards the youth who to-day had appeared to my eyes as a savior.
 When he first left me there on the road, he still remained present,
 Haunting my every thought; I fancied the fortunate maiden
 Whom as a bride, perhaps, his heart had already elected.
 When at the fountain I met him again, the sight of him wakened
 Pleasure as great as if there had met me an angel from heaven;
 And with what gladness I followed, when asked to come as his servant.
 True, that I flattered myself in my heart,--I will not deny it,--
 While we were hitherward coming, I might peradventure deserve him,
 Should I become at last the important stay of the household.
 Now I, alas! for the first time see what risk I was running,
 When I would make my home so near to the secretly loved one;
 Now for the first time feel how far removed a poor maiden
 Is from an opulent youth, no matter how great her deserving.
 All this I now confess, that my heart ye may not misinterpret,
 In that 'twas hurt by a chance to which I owe my awaking.
 Hiding my secret desires, this dread had been ever before me,
 That at some early day he would bring him a bride to his dwelling;
 And ah, how could I then my inward anguish have suffered!
 Happily I have been warned, and happily now has my bosom
 Been of its secret relieved, while yet there is cure for the evil.
 But no more; I have spoken; and now shall nothing detain me
 Longer here in a house where I stay but in shame and confusion,
 Freely confessing my love and that foolish hope that I cherished.
 Not the night which abroad is covered with lowering storm clouds;
 Not the roll of the thunder--I hear its peal--shall deter me;
 Not the pelt of the rain which without is beating in fury;
 Neither the blustering tempest; for all these things have I suffered
 During our sorrowful flight, and while the near foe was pursuing.
 Now I again go forth, as I have so long been accustomed,
 Carried away by the whirl of the times, and from every thing parted.
 Fare ye well! I tarry no longer; all now is over."

 Thus she spoke and back to the door she hastily turned her,
 Still bearing under her arm, as she with her had brought it, her bundle.
 But with both of her arms the mother seized hold of the maiden,
 Clasping her round the waist, and exclaiming, amazed and bewildered:
 "Tell me, what means all this? and these idle tears, say, what mean they?
 I will not let thee depart: thou art the betrothed of my Hermann."

 But still the father stood, observing the scene with displeasure,
 Looked on the weeping girl, and said in a tone of vexation:
 "This then must be the return that I get for all my indulgence,
 That at the close of the day this most irksome of all things should happen!
 For there is naught I can tolerate less than womanish weeping,
 Violent outcries, which only involve in disorder and passion,
 What with a little of sense had been more smoothly adjusted.
 Settle the thing for yourselves: I'm going to bed; I've no patience
 Longer to be a spectator of these your marvellous doings."
 Quickly he turned as he spoke, and hastened to go to the chamber
 Where he was wonted to rest, and his marriage bed was kept standing,
 But he was held by his son, who said in a tone of entreaty:
 "Father, hasten not from us, and be thou not wroth with the maiden.
 I, only I, am to blame as the cause of all this confusion,
 Which by his dissimulation our friend unexpectedly heightened.
 Speak, O worthy sir; for to thee my cause I intrusted.
 Heap not up sorrow and anger, but rather let all this be ended;
 For I could hold thee never again in such high estimation,
 If thou shouldst show but delight in pain, not superior wisdom."

 Thereupon answered and said the excellent clergyman, smiling:
 "Tell me, what other device could have drawn this charming confession
 Out of the good maiden's lips, and thus have revealed her affection?
 Has not thy trouble been straightway transformed into gladness and rapture?
 Therefore speak up for thyself; what need of the tongue of another?"

 Thereupon Hermann came forward, and spoke in these words of affection:
 "Do not repent of thy tears, nor repent of these passing distresses;
 For they complete my joy, and--may I not hope it-thine also?
 Not to engage the stranger, the excellent maid, as a servant,
 Unto the fountain I came; but to sue for thy love I came thither.
 Only, alas! my timorous look could thy heart's inclination
 Nowise perceive; I read in thine eyes of nothing but kindness,
 As from the fountain's tranquil mirror thou gavest me greeting.
 Might I but bring thee home, the half of my joy was accomplished.
 But thou completest it unto me now; oh, blest be thou for it!"
 Then with a deep emotion the maiden gazed on the stripling;
 Neither forbade she embrace and kiss, the summit of rapture,
 When to a loving pair they come as the longed-for assurance,
 Pledge of a lifetime of bliss, that appears to them now never-ending.

 Unto the others, meanwhile, the pastor had made explanation.
 But with feeling and grace the maid now advanced to the father,
 Bent her before him, and kissing the hand he would fain have withholden,
 Said: "Thou wilt surely be just and forgive one so startled as I was,
 First for my tears of distress, and now for the tears of my gladness.
 That emotion forgive me, and oh! forgive me this also.
 For I can scarce comprehend the happiness newly vouchsafed me.
 Yes, let that first vexation of which I, bewildered, was guilty
 Be too the last. Whatever the maid of affectionate service
 Faithfully promised, shall be to thee now performed by the daughter."
 Straightway then, concealing his tears, the father embraced her,
 Cordially, too, the mother came forward and kissed her with fervor,
 Pressing her hands in her own: the weeping women were silent.

 Thereupon quickly he seized, the good and intelligent pastor,
 First the father's hand, and the wedding-ring drew from his finger,--
 Not so easily either: the finger was plump and detained it,--
 Next took the mother's ring also, and with them betrothed he the children,
 Saying: "These golden circlets once more their office performing
 Firmly a tie shall unite, which in all things shall equal the old one,
 Deeply is this young man imbued with love of the maiden,
 And, as the maiden confesses, her heart is gone out to him also.
 Here do I therefore betroth you and bless for the years that are coming,
 With the consent of the parents, and having this friend as a witness."

 Then the neighbor saluted at once, and expressed his good wishes;
 But when the clergyman now the golden circlet was drawing
 Over the maiden's hand, he observed with amazement the other,
 Which had already by Hermann been anxiously marked at the fountain.
 And with a kindly raillery thus thereupon he addressed her:
 "So, then thy second betrothal is this? let us hope the first bridegroom
 May not appear at the altar, and so prohibit the marriage."

 But she, answering, said: "Oh, let me to this recollection
 Yet one moment devote; for so much is due the good giver,
 Him who bestowed it at parting, and never came back to his kindred.
 All that should come he foresaw, when in haste the passion for freedom,
 When a desire in the newly changed order of things to be working,
 Urged him onward to Paris, where chains and death he encountered.
 'Fare thee well,' were his words; 'I go, for all is in motion
 Now for a time on the earth, and every thing seems to be parting.
 E'en in the firmest states fundamental laws are dissolving;
 Property falls away from the hand of the ancient possessor;
 Friend is parted from friend; and so parts lover from lover.
 Here I leave thee, and where I shall find thee again, or if ever,
 Who can tell? Perhaps these words are our last ones together.
 Man's but a stranger here on the earth, we are told and with reason;
 And we are each of us now become more of strangers than ever.
 Ours no more is the soil, and our treasures are all of them changing:
 Silver and gold are melting away from their time-honored patterns.
 All is in motion as though the already-shaped world into chaos
 Meant to resolve itself backward into night, and to shape itself over.
 Mine thou wilt keep thine heart, and should we be ever united
 Over the ruins of earth, it will be as newly made creatures,
 Beings transformed and free, no longer dependent on fortune;
 For can aught fetter the man who has lived through days such as these are!
 But if it is not to be, that, these dangers happily over,
 Ever again we be granted the bliss of mutual embraces,
 Oh, then before thy thoughts so keep my hovering image
 That with unshaken mind thou be ready for good or for evil!
 Should new ties allure thee again, and a new habitation,
 Enter with gratitude into the joys that fate shall prepare thee;
 Love those purely who love thee; be grateful to them who show kindness.
 But thine uncertain foot should yet be planted but lightly,
 For there is lurking the twofold pain of a new separation.
 Blessings attend thy life; but value existence no higher
 Than thine other possessions, and all possessions are cheating!'
 Thus spoke the noble youth, and never again I beheld him.
 Meanwhile I lost my all, and a thousand times thought of his warning.
 Here, too, I think of his words, when love is sweetly preparing
 Happiness for me anew, and glorious hopes are reviving,
 Oh forgive me, excellent friend, that e'en while I hold thee
 Close to my side I tremble! So unto the late-landed sailor
 Seem the most solid foundations of firmest earth to be rocking."

 Thus she spoke, and placed the two rings on her finger together.
 But her lover replied with a noble and manly emotion:
 "So much the firmer then, amid these universal convulsions,
 Be, Dorothea, our union! We two will hold fast and continue,
 Firmly maintaining ourselves, and the right to our ample possessions.
 For that man, who, when times are uncertain, is faltering in spirit,
 Only increases the evil, and further and further transmits it;
 While he refashions the world, who keeps himself steadfastly minded.
 Poorly becomes it the German to give to these fearful excitements
 Aught of continuance, or to be this way and that way inclining.
 This is our own! let that be our word, and let us maintain it!
 For to those resolute peoples respect will be ever accorded,
 Who for God and the laws, for parents, women and children,
 Fought and died, as together they stood with their front to the foeman.
 Thou art mine own; and now what is mine, is mine more than ever.
 Not with anxiety will I preserve it, and trembling enjoyment;
 Rather with courage and strength. To-day should the enemy threaten,
 Or in the future, equip me thyself and hand me my weapons.
 Let me but know that under thy care are my house and dear parents,
 Oh! I can then with assurance expose my breast to the foeman.
 And were but every man minded like me, there would be an upspring
 Might against might, and peace should revisit us all with its gladness."







I

  Here's where I've planted my garden and here I shall care for love's blossoms--

    As I am taught by my muse, carefully sort them in plots:

  Fertile branches, whose product is golden fruit of my lifetime,

    Set here in happier years, tended with pleasure today.

  You, stand here at my side, good Priapus--albeit from thieves I've

    Nothing to fear. Freely pluck, whosoever would eat.

  --Hypocrites, those are the ones! If weakened with shame and bad conscience

    One of those criminals comes, squinting out over my garden,

  Bridling at nature's pure fruit, punish the knave in his hindparts,

    Using the stake which so red rises there at your loins.




II

  Tell me ye stones and give me O glorious palaces answer.

    Speak O ye streets but one word. Genius, art thou alive?

  Yes, here within thy sanctified walls there's a soul in each object,

    ROMA eternal. For me, only, are all things yet mute.

  Who will then tell me in whispers and where must I find just the window

    Where one day she'll be glimpsed: creature who'll scorch me with love?

  Can't I divine yet the paths through which over and over

    To her and from her I'll go, squandering valuable time?

  Visiting churches and palaces, all of the ruins and the pillars,

    I, a responsible man, profit from making this trip.

  With my business accomplished, ah, then shall only one temple,

    AMOR's temple alone, take the initiate in.

  Rome, thou art a whole world, it is true, and yet without love this

    World would not be the world, Rome would cease to be Rome.




III

  More than ever I dreamed, I have found it: my happy good fortune!

    Cupid sagaciously led past those palazzos so fine.

  He of course knows very well (and I have also discovered)

    What, beneath tapestries rich, gilded boudoirs conceal.

  One may if one wishes call him a blind, wanton boy--but I know you,

    Clever Cupid, too well! O, incorruptible god!

  We were by no means inveigled to enter façades so majestic;

    Somber cortilé we passed, balcony high and gallant,

  Hastening onward until an humble but exquisite portal

    Offered a refuge to both, ardent seeker and guide.

  Here he provides me with ev'rything, sees that I get what I call for;

    Each day that passes he spreads freshly plucked roses for me.

  --Isn't that heaven on earth? Say, beautiful Lady Borghese,

    What would you give to me more? --You, Nipotina, what yours?

  Banquets and game tables, operas, balls, promenades down the Corso?

    These but deprive my sweet boy of his most opportune times.

  Finery, haughtiness do not entice me. Does one not lift a

    Gown of the finest brocade just as one lifts common wool?

  If she's to press in comfort a lover against that soft bosom,

    Doesn't he want her to be free from all brooches and chains?

  Must not the jewelry, and then the lace and the bustles and whalebone

    All of it come off entire, if he's to learn how she feels?

  I encounter no troubles like those. Simple dress of rough homespun,

    At but a lover's mere touch, tumbles in folds to the floor.

  Quickly he carries the girl as she's clad in chemise of coarse linen--

    Just as a nursemaid might, playfully up to her bed.

  Drapings of satin are absent; the mattress is quite unembroidered.

    Large is this room where the bed offers its comfort for two.

  Jupiter's welcome to more from his Juno if he can get it;

    Let any mortal find rest, softer, wherever he can.

  We are content with Cupid's delights, authentic and naked--

    And with the exquisite creak /crack of the bed as it rocks.




IV

  Ask whomever you will but you'll never find out where I'm lodging,

    High society's lords, ladies so groomed and refined.

  "Tell me, was Werther authentic? Did all of that happen in real life?"

    "Lotte, oh where did she live, Werther's only true love?"

  How many times have I cursed those frivolous pages that broadcast

    Out among all mankind passions I felt in my youth!

  Were he my brother, why then I 'd have murdered poor Werther.

    Yet his despondent ghost couldn't have sought worse revenge.

  That's the way "Marlborough," the ditty, follows the Englishman's travels

    Down to Livorno from France, thence from Livorno to Rome,

  All of the way into Naples and then, should he flee on to Madras,

    "Marlborough" will surely be there, "Marlborough" sung in the port.

  Happily now I've escaped, and my mistress knows Werther and Lotte

    Not a whit better than who might be this man in her bed:

  That he's a foreigner, footloose and lusty, is all she could tell you,

    Who beyond mountains and snow, dwelt in a house made of wood.




V

  Do not, beloved, regret that you yielded to me so quickly:

    I entertain no base, insolent thoughts about you.

  Arrows of Cupid work divers effects. Some do but scratch us:

    Slow and insidious these poison our hearts over years.

  Yet with a head freshly honed and cunningly fledged, certain others

    Pierce to the marrow, inflame rapidly there our blood.

  When gods and goddesses in days of heroes made love, then

    Lust followed look and desire, with no delay, was indulged.

  Surely you don't think the goddess of love lost a moment reflecting

    When, in Idean grove, Anchises caught her eye.

  Nor did Luna delay about kissing that beautiful dreamer--

    Jealous Aurora had else hastily wakened the lad.

  At the loud banquet Hero regarded Leander--then promptly

    Into dark waters he plunged, ardently swam toward his love.

  When Rhea Silvia, princess and virgin, came down to the Tiber

    Just to fetch water, a god seized her and that is the way

  Mars begat himself sons, a pair of twins whom a she wolf

    Suckled. Today a proud Rome claims to be queen of the world.




VI

  We are so pious, we lovers. Discreetly we worship all powers,

    Hoping for favor from each god and each goddess as well.

  We are like you, ye victorious Romans, in this:  for we offer

    Gods of all peoples and tribes, over the whole world, a home--

  May the Egyptian, black and austere out of primeval basalt,

    Or from the marble a Greek, form them charming and white--

  Yet the eternal ones do not object to particularism

    (Incense of most precious sort, strewn for just one of their host).

  Therefore we gladly confess to singling a special immortal

    And our devotions each day pledging but solely to her.

  Mischievous celebrants we at these mysteries gay, and so solemn:

    Silence exactly befits rites at which we're adepts.

  Rather onto our heels by horrible deeds the Erinyes

    We would allure, even Zeus' punishment sooner we'd dare--

  Under that rock, or bound to a tumbling wheel we'd endure it--

    Than we'd withdraw our hearts from the delights of her cult.

  Sweet Opportunity, that is her name. You should meet her.

    Often will she turn up, ever in a new form.

  Daughter of Proteus might well she be whom he sired upon Thetis.

    In metamorphoses they've many a hero deceived.

  So now the daughter beguiles the naive and bedazzles the foolish,

    Teases you while you're asleep; when you awaken, she's flown.

  Eagerly yields herself up to the quick, to the active man only.

    He discovers she's tame, playful and tender and sweet.

  Once she appeared to me, too: a dark-skinned girl, tumbling

    Over her forehead the hair down in waves heavy and dark.

  Round about a delicate neck curled short little ringlets;

    Up from the crown of her head crinkled the unbraided hair.

  When she dashed by me I seized her, mistaking her not. Lovingly

    Kiss and embrace she returned, knowing and teaching me how.

  O how enraptured I was! Ah, say now no more. It's a bygone.

    But, O pigtails of Rome, still I'm entrammled in you.




VII

  Happily now on classical soil I feel inspiration.

    Voices from present and past speak here evocatively.

  Heeding ancient advice, I leaf through the works of the Ancients

    With an assiduous hand. Daily the pleasure's renewed.

  Throughout the night, in a different way, I'm kept busy by Cupid--

    If erudition is halved, rapture is doubled that way.

  Do then I not become wise when I trace with my eye her sweet bosom's

    Form, and the line of her hips stroke with my hand? I acquire,

  As I reflect and compare, my first understanding of marble,

    See with an eye that feels, feel with a hand that sees.

  While my beloved, I grant it, deprives me of moments of daylight,

      She in the nighttime hours gives compensation in full.

  And we do more than just kiss; we prosecute reasoned discussions

    (Should she succumb to sleep, that gives me time for my thoughts).

  In her embrace--it's by no means unusual--I've composed poems

    And the hexameter's beat gently tapped out on her back,

  Fingertips counting in time with the sweet rhythmic breath of her slumber.

    Air from deep in her breast penetrates mine and there burns.

  Cupid, while stirring the flame in our lamp, no doubt thinks of those days when

      For the triumvirs he similar service performed.




VIII

  "Can you be cruel enough to sadden me thus with reproaches?

    Germans speak, I suppose, bitterly when they're in love.

  Bear it I must when the gossips bring forth accusations: I'm guilty--

    Or am I not? But, alas, all of my guilt was with you.

  Clothes that you've given bear witness for envious neighbors

      That the poor widow no more grieves for her husband alone.

  Did you not thoughtlessly visit me in the disguise of a cleric,

      Muffled all up in a cloak, hair all rounded behind?

  Who was it chose that gray monk if not you? Well then a prelate

    Now is my lover--Ah, who is my prelate but you?

  Never, incredible as it may sound in this clerical city,

    Has any cleric brought me--swear it I will--to his bed.

  I was sufficiently poor, sad to say. I was young. The seducers

    Noted it well. Falconier ogled me often enough.

  One of the pimps for Albani with billets doux very impressive

    Called me to Ostia once. Quattro Fontani next time.

  Who was it did not appear there? Why, who but the very same girl who

    Hated with all of her heart stockings both violet and red.

  For: 'In the end you poor girls are the ones who are sure to be cheated.'

    So said my father although--Mother was not much impressed.

  Father was right. Here I stand in the end being cheated and scolded.

    You don't believe your own words. They're your excuse to escape.

  Go, then. Unworthy of women are men. We, who carry your children

    Next to our hearts, in these hearts loyalty we bear you, too.

  As for you men, when you've poured out your potency in our embraces

    And your desires dissipate, love with them passes away."

  These things expressed, and taking her child from its chair, my beloved

    Presses it close to her heart, kisses it, tears in her eyes.

  I'm now so very ashamed of myself for having permitted

    Gossip of neighbors to spoil picture so eloquent.

  For a short moment a fire may burn darkly while smoke swirls about it.

    Water dashed on the coals suddenly smothers their glow.

  Rapidly then renewed heat overcomes those lowering vapors,

    Sends up a flame that anew bright and more powerful gleams.




IX

  How very happy I am here in Rome when I think of the bad days

    Far back there in the north, wrapped in a grayish light.

  Over my head there the heavens weighed down so dismal and gloomy;

    Colorless, formless, that world round this exhausted man lay.

  Seeking myself in myself, an unsatisfied spirit, I brooded,

    Spying out pathways dark, lost in dreary reflection.

  Here in an æther more clear now a luster encircles my forehead.

    Phoebus the god evokes forms, clear are his colors by day.

  Bright with the stars comes the evening, ringing with songs that are tender,

    And the glow of the moon, brighter than northern sun.

  What blessedness mortals may know! Am I now dreaming? Or welcomes

    Jupiter, Father, as guest--me, to ambrosial halls?

  See, I lie here extending my arms toward your knees. I am praying:

    Hospitality's god, Jupiter Xenius! Hear:

  How I am come to this place I no longer can say--I was

    Seized up by Hebe.  'Twas she led to this sacred hill.

  Did you command her a hero to seek and deliver before you?

    May be she erred. Then forgive. Let her mistake profit me!

  Does not Fortuna, your daughter, when strewing her glorious presents,

    After the manner of girls, yield to each passing whim?

  You, O hospitable god, will by no means now banish a stranger

    From your Olympian heights back to the base earth again.

  "Poet, come to your senses!"--Forgive me, Jupiter, is not

    Rome's Capitoline Hill second Olympus to you?

  Suffer me, Jupiter, here and let Hermes guide me at last then

    Past Cestius' Tomb gently to Orkus below.




X

  When you were small, you say, neither did others consider you f air, nor

    Even your mother find praise--and I believe it--

  Till you grew bigger, developing quietly over the years. I

    Picture you to myself as an unusual child.

  Also the blossoms on grapevines are wanting in shape and in color,

    Although the fruit when it's ripe pleases both mankind and gods.




XI

  Kindling autumnal fire in a rustic, convivial fireplace

    (How the sticks crackle and spew flames and glittering sparks!)

  Strikes me especially pleasant this evening.  Before all my tinder

    Dies away into coals, coals then to ashes decline,

  She will be back and new faggots as well as big logs will be blazing,

    Making a festival where lovers will warm up the night.

  Then in the morning, officious, she'll leave the bed of her lover,

    Rouse adroitly the flames out from their ashes anew.

  Cupid has lent to her above others the gift of cajoling

    Up from the ashes desire, just when slumber's begun.




XII

  All of those greats: Alexander, Caesar and Henry and Fredrick,

    Gladly would share with me half of their hard fought renown,

  Could I but grant them my bed for one single night, and its comfort,

    But the poor wretches are held stark in cold Orkian grip.

  Therefore, ye living, rejoice that love keeps you warm for a while yet,

    Until cold Lethe anoints, captures your foot in its flight.




XIII

  They are for you, O ye graces, just a few leaves by a poet

    Onto your pure altar laid, buds of the rose beside,

  Offered in confidence.  Artists enjoy ateliers which are furnished

    So as to make for a space Pantheon-like in decor:

  Jupiter lowers that godly brow while his Juno looks upward;

    Phoebus takes forward strides, shaking his curly head;

  While phlegmatic Minerva peers down on us, frivolous Hermes

    Seems to be looking askance, roguish, though tender as well.

  But it's to Bacchus, the sensuous dreamer, Cythera sends glances

    Bathed in sweetest desire--even in marble they're damp.

  Thinking about his embrace and its pleasures, she seems to be asking

    Shouldn't our glorious son here at our side stand erect?




XIV

  Can't you hear voices, beloved, out on the Via Flamina?

    Reapers are now going home, back from harvesting grain.

  They had journeyed to Rome from afar, and here plaited for Ceres

    Wreaths which the Romans today scorn to make for themselves.

  Festivals no longer celebrate Ceres, the nourishing goddess

    Who replaced acorns of old, giving man golden wheat.

  Let us commemorate her then ourselves in festival private

    (Two constitute a whole tribe, when they are two in love).

  Have you by any chance heard how that mystical, strange celebration

    Followed victorious troops back from Eleusis to Rome?

  Greeks were the ones who began it, and only to Greeks they proclaimed it

    Even within Roman walls: "Come to the sanctified night."

  Those who were not of the cult kept their distance; neophytes trembled,

    Waiting in garments of white, symbol of all that is pure.

  Then the initiates must aimlessly wander about through the eerie

    Circles of figures as if pilgriming through their own dreams.

  Snakes on the ground were writhing about. Now virgins came bearing

    Caskets securely locked, richly wreathéd with grain.

  Surely the gestures of murmuring priests must contain some deep meaning--

    Impatient acolytes wait, anxiously hoping for light.

  Not until after many a testing and trial did they discover

    What, within sacred ring, secretive image concealed.

  What was this mystery other than this:   that Demeter, goddess,

    Once upon a time had to a hero been kind.

  It was to Jason, powerful king of the Cretans, she granted

    Of her immortal self hidden sweet parts to explore.

  That made the fortune of Crete! The marital bed of the goddess

    Soon grew pregnant with grain, heavy her bounteous fields.

  As for the rest of the world, it languished away, while Ceres,

    Derelict of her true task, dalliance offered in love.

  --Now the initiate youths, having followed this tale, all astonished,

    Turned and beckoned their loves--love, do you comprehend?

  See there the sacred shade beneath that bushy-boughed myrtle?

    Our satisfaction will there scarcely endanger a world.




XV

  Cupid is always a scoundrel, and if you believe him he'll cheat you.

    Here's what the hypocrite said: "Trust me just once more, this time.

  I have the best of intentions toward you who have now dedicated--

    I recognize it with thanks--life and writings to me.

  Lo, I have followed you hither to Rome, and I'd like to do something

    Here in this far away land pleasing to such an old friend.

  Every traveller I've ever known has complained of poor treatment:

    He whom I recommend treatment delicious receives.

  You've now regarded with awe all the structures which lie here in ruins,

    Cultivated your eye, sensing each hallowéd space.

  How you've revered the formative will of those ancient artists!

    In their own ateliers often I 've visited them.

  As for their works, why, I formed those myself--now this time I'm boasting

    Not. Oh come now, admit what I am saying is true.

  Where are your own creations, your service to me having slackened?

    Where is invention's glow now? Where is the color all gone?

  Friend, do you hope you can create again? --The school of the Ancients

    Yet remains open.  Its gates, years have not closed them to you.

  I am eternally young, and as teacher I still love the young ones.

    Wisdom that comes with old age pleases me not. Listen here:

  Wasn't antiquity young when those fortunate Ancients were living?

    Happy then be your life, too: in it antiquity lives.

  Where will you find a fit theme for your song? --It is I must provide it.

    As for a style truly grand, love can alone give you that."

  All of these claims that sophist asserted. Could I contradict him?

    I am wont to obey, when my commander decrees.

  Treacherous now he is keeping his word: giving me themes for my poems

    While he is stealing my time, potency, presence of mind.

  Gazing into her eyes, holding hands, giving kisses, exchanging

    Syllables sweet and those words lovers alone understand,

  Murmuring our conversations we stutter in sweet oratory.

    Hymns of such sort pass away, wanting prosodical tact.

  Goddess of morning, Aurora, as friend of my muse I once knew you.

    Has the unprincipled god, Cupid, seduced you now too?

  So that these mornings you come as his sweetheart, awakening me at

    His festive altar again, where I must celebrate him?

  Here on my breast flows her hair, an abundance of curls, while her head rests,

    Pressing my arm as it's bent, so as to pillow her neck.

  What a delicious condition, if only these few tranquil moments

    Could in my memory fix firmly that image of joy

  When the night rocked us to sleep--but in slumber she's moving away now,

    From my side turns, as she goes leaving her hand in my hand.

  Love in our hearts makes us one, as the genuine need there stays constant;

    Only returning desire knows oscillation or change.

  Gently her hand presses mine, now she opens her eyes and is looking

    Into my own eyes. No--don't. Let my thoughts rest on your form!

  Please close your eyes. They're inebriation, confusion, they rob me

    All too soon of the joy quiet reflection affords.

  Grand are the forms of this body and nobly positioned each member.

    Had Ariadne lain thus, Theseus never had fled.

  Only a single kiss for these lips and then, O Theseus, leave her;

    Look at her eyes--she's awake! Now you're eternally bound.




XVI

  Boy, won't you light me a lamp. "But dear master, there's light in the sky yet.

    Don't waste your oil and the wick. Don't close the shutters so soon.

  Only the houses are blocking the sun there, it's not yet the mountains.

    Until the curfew shall ring, full half an hour must pass."

  Wretched young fellow, be gone and obey me! My loved one is coming.

    Lamplight, console me till then, harbinger warm of the night.




XVII

  Poets of old in chorus cried out against those two serpents,

    Making them horrible names, hated in all of the world:

  Python the one, the other the Hydra of Lerna. These monsters

    Both have now been destroyed, thanks to the deeds of the gods.

  Fire-breathing, venomous once, they no longer now depredate our

    Flocks and meadows and woods, fields of golden grain.

  How is it then that some spiteful god in his wrath has

    Raised from the poisonous slime offspring so monstrous again?

  There's an insidious viper creeps into the loveliest gardens,

    Lying in wait to attack all who seek pleasure therein.

  Noble Hesperian dragon, I call you courageous and forthright.

    Boldly defending your own beautiful apples of gold.

  As for this worm, why he is not guarding at all, for his presence

    Sullies both garden and fruit, till they deserve no defense.

  Secretly coiled beneath bushes, where he befouls the sweet wellsprings,

    Turning to poisonous drool Cupid's lifegiving dew.

  Happy Lucretius knew how in his day to forego love completely,

    Fearing not to enjoy pleasure in anyone's arms.

  Fortunate Ancient, Propertius, for you a slave fetched the girls down

    From the Aventine Hill, from Tarpeia's grove.

  Cynthia then, when driving you out of such unchaste embraces,

    Found you unfaithful, it's true, but she did find you whole.

  Who would today dare attempt to escape from fidelity's ennui?

    Love does not hold one back--only concern for one's health.

  Even the woman we love may afford us uncertain enjoyment;

    Nowhere can feminine lap safely encouch a man's head.

  Matrimonial bed's insecure and so's fornication;

    Husband, lover and wife pass to each other the hurt.

  Think of those ages of gold when Jupiter followed his urges,

    Chose Callisto one day, turned to Semel the next.

  It was important to him to find thresholds of temples so sacred

    Pure when, enamoured, he sought powerful entry to them.

  Can you imagine the ragings of Juno if in love's skirmish

    Poisonous weapons on her by her own spouse had been turned?

  But we neo-pagans may not after all be abandoned entirely:

    Yet there is speeding a god mercifully over the earth,

  Quick and assiduous. Everyone knows him and ought to adore him,

    Herald of Zeus: Hermes, the healing god.

  Although his father's temple be fallen, and though of its pillars

    Scarcely a pair yet records ancient glory adored,

  Nevertheless the son's place of worship still stands, and forever

    Will there the ardent requests alternate with the thanks.

  Only one favor I beg of you, Graces (I ask it in secret--

    Fervent my prayer and deep, out of a passionate breast):

  My little garden, my sweet one, protect it and do not let any

    Evil come near it nor me. Cupid will hold out his hand:

  O, and entrusting myself to the rascal, I beg you please may I

    Do so in pleasure with no danger or worry or fear.




XVIII

  I cannot think I'd have gone with Julius Caesar to Britain;

    To the Popina right here, Florus would tug me with ease.

  Fogs of the dreary north remain a more baleful remembrance

    Than in the kitchens of Rome tribes of assiduous fleas.

  After today, I'll remember you even more kindly, tavernas,

    You osterias, as you are called, aptly by those here in Rome.

  That was the place I encountered my mistress today with the uncle

    Whom she so often deceives, so that she can have me.

  Here's where I sat at a table surrounded by good-natured Germans;

    Over on that side the girl, finding a seat for herself

  Next to her mother where, frequently shifting her bench, she arranged

    Nicely for me to perceive profile and curve of her neck;

  Speaks just a little more loudly than women in Rome are accustomed;

    Significant glance as she pours--misses the glass with the wine

  So that it spills on the table, and she with a delicate finger

    Over its surface can draw circles in damp arabesque:

  Her name entwining in mine, while my eyes most eagerly follow

    All that her fingertip writes. She is of course well aware

  That I am watching, so finally makes the V of the Roman

    Five, with a virgule before. Quickly, as soon as I've seen,

  She interlaces the circles, reducing them all to ornatest

    Patterns--but still the sweet IV stood as engraved in my eye.

  I sat there mutely and biting my passionate lips almost bloody

    Half from delight at the ruse, partly from stifled desire:

  Such a long time until dark, then another four hours of waiting.

    --Sun, who tarries on high, contemplating Rome:

  Greater never you've nor shall you in future see greater

    Than Rome, O sun, as your priest, Horace, enraptured foretold.

  Tarry no longer today. Go seek other realms beneath heaven.

    Sooner depart and leave Rome's seven famed hills to me.

  Please do the poet a favor and shorten the glorious hours

    Which the painter devours, eagerly filling his eyes.

  Cast now but one ardent glance, while descending, on noble façades and

    Cupolas, pillars, and--last--up at the obelisks. Then

  Hastily plunge to the ocean. Come view all the sooner tomorrow

    That which, for centuries now, gods have let you enjoy:

  Italy's shoreline so long overgrown with moist reeds, elevations

    Somberly rising to shades cast by the bushes and trees.

  First were but few simple dwellings here, suddenly sunlight discovered

    Nations enlivening hills teeming with fortunate thieves.

  Onto this spot they assembled such plunder, in your eye so splendid

    All earth's remaining orb scarcely was worthy of note.

  You watched a world being born here, watched the same world sink to ruin,

    And from those ruins yet arise world again greater, perhaps.

  O may I long by your light now behold this Rome. May the Parcæ

    Spin the fine thread of my life slowly, taking great care.

  O but come rushing the moment my love designated so sweetly.

    Wonderful! Sound already the chimes? --No, but I heard at least three.

  Thus, my dear muses, again you've beguiled the monotony for me.

    Of this long interval while I was apart from my love.

  All of you now, farewell! I'll be going now--don't be offended.

    For, though you're proud, you'll concede: Cupid in my heart comes first.




XIX

  Why did you fail to appear at the cot in the vineyard today, Love?

    As I had promised I would, long I awaited you there.

  "Dear, I had almost arrived when I saw, by good fortune, your uncle

    Standing right there by the vines, looking now this way, now that.

  Stealthily I slipped away." --Alas, what a misapprehension!

    You saw the scarecrow, that's all. Nothing else drove you away.

  Reeds and some discarded garments all hastily cobbled together--

    I helped to make it myself: diligent in my own grief.

  "Well, now his wish is fulfilled. The old gardner's most dissolute crow has

    Left on this day unscathed nice little garden and niece."




XX

  While there is many an unpleasant sound, I hate to hear barking

    Worse than anything else. Bellowing dogs split my ears.

  Nevertheless I do like to hear, and take pleasure in listening

    To the loud howl of the dog raised from a pup next door.

  That is the dog that so bayed one time at my girl that he almost

    Gave our secret away (when she was visiting me).

  Now, when I hear the dog barking I think my beloved is coming--

    Or I remember the time, when long awaited she came.




XXI

  I can tell not only about a discomfort far greater than others,

    But of a horror besides, thinking of which will arouse

  Every fiber in me to revulsion. My friends, I confess it:

    Great displeasure I take lying alone in my bed.

  But it's a horror to fear on the pathways of love you'll discover

    Snakes and their venom beneath roses of eager desire--

  That at the moment supreme, when I'm yielding to pleasure so fully,

    Right at my head as it droops, hissing disease may approach.

  That's why Faustina as my companion in bed makes me happy:

    Loving she always remains faithful, as I am to her.

  Young men are aroused in their passions by obstacles and by excitement;

    I prefer to go slow, savoring pleasures secure.

  Is it not bliss to exchange tender kisses containing no dangers,

    Sucking into our lungs, carefree, our partner's own life?

  That is the way our long nights of enjoyment are passed. We listen,

    Breast against breast, to the storm, pouring down rain in the wind

  Morning begins to dawn, we expect from these hours approaching

    Blossoms that will adorn festive the coming new day.

  Quirites, permit me the joy, and may this, of all pleasures on earth the

    First and the last, be vouchsafed all of mankind by the god.




XXII

  Ah, to uphold one's respectable name is not easy. The Lady

    Fame has an ancient foe: Cupid, my master and lord.

  Oh, by the way, have you heard of the cause of their mutual hatred?

    It's an old story, I think--Let me just tell it again.

  Powerful ever the goddess, but nevertheless to her fellows

    Overbearing and rude, quite unendurable. She

  Had by the gods since time out of mind at their banquets been dreaded,

    Yelling with brassiest voice orders to great and to small.

  Once, in her arrogance even maintained that she had subjected

    To her own will, as her slave, Jove's most illustrious son.

  "One of these days, O father of deities," cried she in triumph,

    "I shall be bringing you my--Hercules, as if new born.

  Don't think that Hercules be still that boy whom Alcmene once bore you;

    His adulation of me makes him now god upon earth.

  When toward Olympus he gazes, I've no doubt you hope that he's looking

    Piously toward your knees. Hardly. He's looking for me.

  Worthiest man! O the vision of winning my favor makes easy

    Hitherto unexplored paths, under that powerful foot.

  I do my part, for I meet him halfway and proclaim his adventures

    Praising his name in advance, even before he's begun.

  One day you'll wed me to Hercules.  Hero who Amazons conquered

    That day will overwhelm me. Happily I'll call him:  spouse."

  All of the gods kept their counsel, and none would reply to the braggart,

    Lest in a pique she devise vengeance against one of them.

  Cupid, escaping attention, slipped off to enslave, however, her hero:

    Artlessly conquering by--force of a beautiful girl,

  Afterward decked out his couple in mute masquerade:  lionskin

    Over her shoulders, the club leaned (by much toil) at her side;

  Wiry stiff hair of the hero larded with blossoms, a distaff

    Laid in his fist, to conform strength to the dalliance of love.

  Scene now completed and ready to tease, he goes scampering, shouting

    For all Olympus to hear: "Come, see these glorious deeds!

  Heaven and Earth and the Sun on his indefatigable journey

    Over that infinite path never did witness the like!"

  Everyone hastened, gulled by the dissolute boy, who feigning

    Earnest, had summoned them all (Fame by no means lagged behind).

  Which of the gods will now smile in sweet condescension on Cupid?

    --Juno! delighted, of course, seeing a man humbled so.

  Fame, on the other hand, stood there ashamed, embarrassed, despairing.

    First she just laughed, saying: "Gods, be not deceived. It's a masque.

  I know my hero too well to be fooled by disguises of actors."

    Soon, though, in pain she perceived: Hercules, none but he.

  (Vulcan had not been one thousandth so vexed to discover his playmate

    Under his meshes ensnared, caught with his own lusty friend,

  Lying just as the wiles of the net at the most crucial moment

    Deftly embraced their embrace, trapping their instant of joy.

  How those boys, Bacchus and Mercury, guffawed, and freely admitted:

    Sweet must be the repose, lying on bosom so fine

  Of this magnificent woman. They turned to Vulcan entreating:

    "Do not release them just yet. Let us inspect them once more."

  And the old cuckold was cuckold enough to comply with their wishes.)

    As for poor Fame, in all haste, burning with wrath she must flee.

  Since then no armistice has been proclaimed to the feuding between them.

    Let her but favor a man, hot in pursuit is the boy.

  He whom Fame honors most can least defend against Cupid,

    And her most dang'rous attacks strike the most morally proud.

  Whoever tries to escape him is dragged down from bad deeds to worse ones.

    Yes, he will offer you girls--if like a fool you despise

  These, only then do you feel from his bow the arrows most vicious:

    Heat of man's love for man, ardent desires toward beasts.

  For those ashamed of him Cupid reserves the bitterest passions,

    Mingling for hypocrites their pleasure in vice and remorse.

  But, at the same time, the goddess seeks him, she's watching and list'ning.

    Should find him with you, ill disposed will she be:

  Frighten you, frowning austerely, contemptuously, violently casting

    Into the worst of repute houses he's known to frequent.

  Ah, it's the same with me, too. I haven't escaped her, the goddess.

    Jealously she seeks me out, sweet secret love to expose.

  I will submit to the ancient law and in silence revere her,

    For, when great lords fall out, I like the Greeks must atone.




XXIII

  However comely be strength, or free and undaunted comportment,

    Secrecy is for a man most important of all.

  Mighty subduer of cities, Discretion, O princess of nations,

    Goddess whom I adore, safely you've led me thus far.

  Now, though, what fate shall befall me? My frivolous muse has now opened

    --Cupid, the scamp--opens lips hitherto sealed so well.

  Difficult is it, alas, to conceal the shame of a monarch;

    Hide it can neither his crown, nor a tight Phrygian cap:

  Midas has asses ears! the first servant discovers--O horror!

    Shame of this secret so weighs, Midas unburdens his heart.

  Into the earth for safekeeping the servant must bury the story,

    Easing in this way the king:  earth must conceal the tale.

  Reeds in a trice are sprouting and rustling in murmuring breezes:

    "Midas, o Midas the King--bears the ears of an ass!"

  Mine is a secret more pleasant, but even more difficult keeping:

    Out of abundance of heart eagerly speaketh my mouth.

  None of my ladyfriends dare I confide in, for they would but chide me;

    Nor any gentleman friend, lest he be rival to me.

  Rapture proclaim to the grove, to the echoing cliffs perorate it?

    One can do that if one's young, or if one's lonely enough.

  I to hexameters tell, in pentameters I will confide it:

    During the day she was joy, happiness all the night long.

  Courted by so many suitors, avoided the snares that were set her

    Now by one bolder than I, now by another in guile,

  Cleverly, daintily, always slipped past them, and sure of the byways,

    Comes to her lover's embrace, where he so eagerly waits.

  Luna! Don't rise yet. She's coming, and must not be seen by the neighbor!

    Breezes, rustle the leaves: muffle the sound of her feet.

  And as for you, little poems, o grow and flower, your blossoms

    Cradling themselves in the air, tepid and soft with love's breath.

  Wafting, betray to Quirites, as Midas' reeds did with cheap gossip,

    One happy couple in love, and their sweet secret, at last.




XXIV

  I in the back of the garden, the last of the gods, in a corner,

    Ineptly formed, must I stand. Evil the inroads of time.

  Cucumber vines grow entwining about this primeval lingam,

    Cracking it almost in two under the weight of the fruit.

  Faggots are heaped all about me against the cold of the winter,

    Which I so hate for the crows settling then down on my head,

  Which they befoul very shamefully. Summer's no better: the servants

    Empty their bowels and show insolent, naked behinds.

  Filth, above and below! I was clearly in danger of turning

    Into filth myself, toadstool, rotten wood!

  Now, by your efforts, O noblest of artists, I shall recover

    With fellow gods my just place. And it's no more than my due.

  Jupiter's throne, so dishonestly won, it was I who secured it:

    Color and ivory, marble and bronze, not to mention the poems.

  Now, all intelligent men look upon me in kindness. They like to

    Form their own image of me, just as the poet has done.

  Nor do the girls take offense when they see me--by no means the matrons.

    None finds me ugly today, though I am monstrously strong.

  Half a foot long, as reward, your glorious rod (dear poet)

    Proudly shall strut from your loins, when but your dearest commands,

  Nor shall your member grow weary until you've enjoyed the full dozen

    Artful positions the great poet Philainis describes.



It is twenty years since I first determined to attempt the translation
of _Faust_, in the original metres. At that time, although more than a
score of English translations of the First Part, and three or four of
the Second Part, were in existence, the experiment had not yet been
made. The prose version of Hayward seemed to have been accepted as the
standard, in default of anything more satisfactory: the English critics,
generally sustaining the translator in his views concerning the
secondary importance of form in Poetry, practically discouraged any
further attempt; and no one, familiar with rhythmical expression through
the needs of his own nature, had devoted the necessary love and patience
to an adequate reproduction of the great work of Goethe's life.

Mr. Brooks was the first to undertake the task, and the publication of
his translation of the First Part (in 1856) induced me, for a time, to
give up my own design. No previous English version exhibited such
abnegation of the translator's own tastes and habits of thought, such
reverent desire to present the original in its purest form. The care and
conscience with which the work had been performed were so apparent, that
I now state with reluctance what then seemed to me to be its only
deficiencies,--a lack of the lyrical fire and fluency of the original in
some passages, and an occasional lowering of the tone through the use of
words which are literal, but not equivalent. The plan of translation
adopted by Mr. Brooks was so entirely my own, that when further
residence in Germany and a more careful study of both parts of _Faust_
had satisfied me that the field was still open,--that the means
furnished by the poetical affinity of the two languages had not yet been
exhausted,--nothing remained for me but to follow him in all essential
particulars. His example confirmed me in the belief that there were few
difficulties in the way of a nearly literal yet thoroughly rhythmical
version of _Faust_, which might not be overcome by loving labor. A
comparison of seventeen English translations, in the arbitrary metres
adopted by the translators, sufficiently showed the danger of allowing
license in this respect: the white light of Goethe's thought was thereby
passed through the tinted glass of other minds, and assumed the coloring
of each. Moreover, the plea of selecting different metres in the hope of
producing a similar effect is unreasonable, where the identical metres
are possible.

The value of form, in a poetical work, is the first question to be
considered. No poet ever understood this question more thoroughly than
Goethe himself, or expressed a more positive opinion in regard to it.
The alternative modes of translation which he presents (reported by
Riemer, quoted by Mrs. Austin, in her "Characteristics of Goethe," and
accepted by Mr. Hayward),[A] are quite independent of his views
concerning the value of form, which we find given elsewhere, in the
clearest and most emphatic manner.[B] Poetry is not simply a fashion of
expression: it is the form of expression absolutely required by a
certain class of ideas. Poetry, indeed, may be distinguished from Prose
by the single circumstance, that it is the utterance of whatever in man
cannot be perfectly uttered in any other than a rhythmical form: it is
useless to say that the naked meaning is independent of the form: on the
contrary, the form contributes essentially to the fullness of the
meaning. In Poetry which endures through its own inherent vitality,
there is no forced union of these two elements. They are as intimately
blended, and with the same mysterious beauty, as the sexes in the
ancient Hermaphroditus. To attempt to represent Poetry in Prose, is very
much like attempting to translate music into speech.[C]

[A] "'There are two maxims of translation,' says he: 'the one requires
that the author, of a foreign nation, be brought to us in such a manner
that we may regard him as our own; the other, on the contrary, demands
of us that we transport ourselves over to him, and adopt his situation,
his mode of speaking, and his peculiarities. The advantages of both are
sufficiently known to all instructed persons, from masterly examples.'"
Is it necessary, however, that there should always be this alternative?
Where the languages are kindred, and equally capable of all varieties of
metrical expression, may not both these "maxims" be observed in the same
translation? Goethe, it is true, was of the opinion that _Faust_ ought
to be given, in French, in the manner of Clement Marot; but this was
undoubtedly because he felt the inadequacy of modern French to express
the naive, simple realism of many passages. The same objection does not
apply to English. There are a few archaic expressions in _Faust_, but no
more than are still allowed--nay, frequently encouraged--in the English
of our day.

[B] "You are right," said Goethe; "there are great and mysterious
agencies included in the various forms of Poetry. If the substance of my
'Roman Elegies' were to be expressed in the tone and measure of Byron's
'Don Juan,' it would really have an atrocious effect."--_Eckermann_.

"The rhythm," said Goethe, "is an unconscious result of the poetic mood.
If one should stop to consider it mechanically, when about to write a
poem, one would become bewildered and accomplish nothing of real
poetical value."--_Ibid_.

"_All that is poetic in character should be rythmically treated_! Such
is my conviction; and if even a sort of poetic prose should be gradually
introduced, it would only show that the distinction between prose and
poetry had been completely lost sight of."--_Goethe to Schiller_, 1797.

Tycho Mommsen, in his excellent essay, _Die Kunst des Deutschen
Uebersetzers aus neueren Sprachen_, goes so far as to say: "The metrical
or rhymed modelling of a poetical work is so essentially the germ of its
being, that, rather than by giving it up, we might hope to construct a
similar work of art before the eyes of our countrymen, by giving up or
changing the substance. The immeasurable result which has followed works
wherein the form has been retained--such as the Homer of Voss, and the
Shakespeare of Tieck and Schlegel--is an incontrovertible evidence of
the vitality of the endeavor."

[C] "Goethe's poems exercise a great sway over me, not only by their
meaning, but also by their rhythm. It is a language which stimulates me
to composition."--_Beethoven_.

The various theories of translation from the Greek and Latin poets have
been admirably stated by Dryden in his Preface to the "Translations from
Ovid's Epistles," and I do not wish to continue the endless
discussion,--especially as our literature needs examples, not opinions.
A recent expression, however, carries with it so much authority, that I
feel bound to present some considerations which the accomplished scholar
seems to have overlooked. Mr. Lewes[D] justly says: "The effect of
poetry is a compound of music and suggestion; this music and this
suggestion are intermingled in words, which to alter is to alter the
effect. For words in poetry are not, as in prose, simple representatives
of objects and ideas: they are parts of an organic whole,--they are
tones in the harmony." He thereupon illustrates the effect of
translation by changing certain well-known English stanzas into others,
equivalent in meaning, but lacking their felicity of words, their grace
and melody. I cannot accept this illustration as valid, because Mr.
Lewes purposely omits the very quality which an honest translator should
exhaust his skill in endeavoring to reproduce. He turns away from the
_one best_ word or phrase in the English lines he quotes, whereas the
translator seeks precisely that one best word or phrase (having _all_
the resources of his language at command), to represent what is said in
_another_ language. More than this, his task is not simply mechanical:
he must feel, and be guided by, a secondary inspiration. Surrendering
himself to the full possession of the spirit which shall speak through
him, he receives, also, a portion of the same creative power. Mr. Lewes
reaches this conclusion: "If, therefore, we reflect what a poem _Faust_
is, and that it contains almost every variety of style and metre, it
will be tolerably evident that no one unacquainted with the original can
form an adequate idea of it from translation,"[E] which is certainly
correct of any translation wherein something of the rhythmical variety
and beauty of the original is not retained. That very much of the
rhythmical character may be retained in English, was long ago shown by
Mr. Carlyle,[F] in the passages which he translated, both literally and
rhythmically, from the _Helena_ (Part Second). In fact, we have so many
instances of the possibility of reciprocally transferring the finest
qualities of English and German poetry, that there is no sufficient
excuse for an unmetrical translation of _Faust_. I refer especially to
such subtile and melodious lyrics as "The Castle by the Sea," of Uhland,
and the "Silent Land" of Salis, translated by Mr. Longfellow; Goethe's
"Minstrel" and "Coptic Song," by Dr. Hedge; Heine's "Two Grenadiers," by
Dr. Furness and many of Heine's songs by Mr Leland; and also to the
German translations of English lyrics, by Freiligrath and Strodtmann.[G]


[D] Life of Goethe (Book VI.).

[E] Mr. Lewes gives the following advice: "The English reader would
perhaps best succeed who should first read Dr. Anster's brilliant
paraphrase, and then carefully go through Hayward's prose translation."
This is singularly at variance with the view he has just expressed. Dr.
Anster's version is an almost incredible dilution of the original,
written in _other_ metres; while Hayward's entirely omits the element of
poetry.

[F] Foreign Review, 1828.

[G] When Freiligrath can thus give us Walter Scott:--

"Kommt, wie der Wind kommt, Wenn Wälder erzittern Kommt, wie die
Brandung Wenn Flotten zersplittern! Schnell heran, schnell herab,
Schneller kommt Al'e!--Häuptling und Bub' und Knapp, Herr und Vasalle!"

or Strodtmann thus reproduce Tennyson:--

"Es fällt der Strahl auf Burg und Thal, Und schneeige Gipfel, reich an
Sagen; Viel' Lichter wehn auf blauen Seen, Bergab die Wasserstürze
jagen! Blas, Hüfthorn, blas, in Wiederhall erschallend: Blas,
Horn--antwortet, Echos, hallend, hallend, hallend!"

--it must be a dull ear which would be satisfied with the omission of
rhythm and rhyme.

I have a more serious objection, however, to urge against Mr. Hayward's
prose translation. Where all the restraints of verse are flung aside, we
should expect, at least, as accurate a reproduction of the sense,
spirit, and tone of the original, as the genius of our language will
permit. So far from having given us such a reproduction, Mr. Hayward not
only occasionally mistakes the exact meaning of the German text,[H] but,
wherever two phrases may be used to express the meaning with equal
fidelity, he very frequently selects that which has the less grace,
strength, or beauty.[I]

[H] On his second page, the line _Mein Lied ertönt der unbekannten
Menge_, "My song sounds to the unknown multitude," is translated: "My
_sorrow_ voices itself to the strange throng." Other English
translators, I notice, have followed Mr. Hayward in mistaking _Lied_ for
_Leid_.

I:
 I take but one out of numerous instances, for the sake of
illustration. The close of the Soldier's Song (Part I. Scene II.) is:--

          "Kühn is das Mühen,
          Herrlich der Lohn!
          Und die Soldaten
          Ziehen davon."

Literally:

          Bold is the endeavor,
          Splendid the pay!
          And the soldiers
          March away.

This Mr. Hayward translates:--

          Bold the adventure,
          Noble the reward--
          And the soldiers
          Are off.

For there are few things which may not be said, in English, in a twofold
manner,--one poetic, and the other prosaic. In German, equally, a word
which in ordinary use has a bare prosaic character may receive a fairer
and finer quality from its place in verse. The prose translator should
certainly be able to feel the manifestation of this law in both
languages, and should so choose his words as to meet their reciprocal
requirements. A man, however, who is not keenly sensible to the power
and beauty and value of rhythm, is likely to overlook these delicate yet
most necessary distinctions. The author's thought is stripped of a last
grace in passing through his mind, and frequently presents very much the
same resemblance to the original as an unhewn shaft to the fluted
column. Mr. Hayward unconsciously illustrates his lack of a refined
appreciation of verse, "in giving," as he says, "_a sort of rhythmical
arrangement_ to the lyrical parts," his object being "to convey some
notion of the variety of versification which forms one great charm of
the poem." A literal translation is always possible in the unrhymed
passages; but even here Mr. Hayward's ear did not dictate to him the
necessity of preserving the original rhythm.

While, therefore, I heartily recognize his lofty appreciation of
_Faust_,--while I honor him for the patient and conscientious labor he
has bestowed upon his translation,--I cannot but feel that he has
himself illustrated the unsoundness of his argument. Nevertheless, the
circumstance that his prose translation of _Faust_ has received so much
acceptance proves those qualities of the original work which cannot be
destroyed by a test so violent. From the cold bare outline thus
produced, the reader unacquainted with the German language would
scarcely guess what glow of color, what richness of changeful life, what
fluent grace and energy of movement have been lost in the process. We
must, of course, gratefully receive such an outline, where a nearer
approach to the form of the original is impossible, but, until the
latter has been demonstrated, we are wrong to remain content with the
cheaper substitute.

It seems to me that in all discussions upon this subject the capacities
of the English language have received but scanty justice. The
intellectual tendencies of our race have always been somewhat
conservative, and its standards of literary taste or belief, once set
up, are not varied without a struggle. The English ear is suspicious of
new metres and unaccustomed forms of expression: there are critical
detectives on the track of every author, and a violation of the accepted
canons is followed by a summons to judgment. Thus the tendency is to
contract rather than to expand the acknowledged excellences of the
language.[J]

[J] I cannot resist the temptation of quoting the following passage from
Jacob Grimm: "No one of all the modern languages has acquired a greater
force and strength than the English, through the derangement and
relinquishment of its ancient laws of sound. The unteachable
(nevertheless _learnable_) profusion of its middle-tones has conferred
upon it an intrinsic power of expression, such as no other human tongue
ever possessed. Its entire, thoroughly intellectual and wonderfully
successful foundation and perfected development issued from a marvelous
union of the two noblest tongues of Europe, the Germanic and the
Romanic. Their mutual relation in the English language is well known,
since the former furnished chiefly the material basis, while the latter
added the intellectual conceptions. The English language, by and through
which the greatest and most eminent poet of modern times--as contrasted
with ancient classical poetry--(of course I can refer only to
Shakespeare) was begotten and nourished, has a just claim to be called a
language of the world; and it appears to be destined, like the English
race, to a higher and broader sway in all quarters of the earth. For in
richness, in compact adjustment of parts, and in pure intelligence, none
of the living languages can be compared with it,--not even our German,
which is divided even as we are divided, and which must cast off many
imperfections before it can boldly enter on its career."--_Ueber den
Ursprung der Sprache_.

The difficulties in the way of a nearly literal translation of _Faust_
in the original metres have been exaggerated, because certain affinities
between the two languages have not been properly considered. With all
the splendor of versification in the work, it contains but few metres of
which the English tongue is not equally capable. Hood has familiarized
us with dactylic (triple) rhymes, and they are remarkably abundant and
skillful in Mr. Lowell's "Fable for the Critics": even the unrhymed
iambic hexameter of the _Helena_ occurs now and then in Milton's _Samson
Agonistes_. It is true that the metrical foot into which the German
language most naturally falls is the _trochaic_, while in English it is
the _iambic_: it is true that German is rich, involved, and tolerant of
new combinations, while English is simple, direct, and rather shy of
compounds; but precisely these differences are so modified in the German
of _Faust_ that there is a mutual approach of the two languages. In
_Faust_, the iambic measure predominates; the style is compact; the many
licenses which the author allows himself are all directed towards a
shorter mode of construction. On the other hand, English metre compels
the use of inversions, admits many verbal liberties prohibited to prose,
and so inclines towards various flexible features of its sister-tongue
that many lines of _Faust_ may be repeated in English without the
slightest change of meaning, measure, or rhyme. There are words, it is
true, with so delicate a bloom upon them that it can in no wise be
preserved; but even such words will always lose less when they carry
with them their rhythmical atmosphere. The flow of Goethe's verse is
sometimes so similar to that of the corresponding English metre, that
not only its harmonies and caesural pauses, but even its punctuation,
may be easily retained.

I am satisfied that the difference between a translation of _Faust_ in
prose or metre is chiefly one of labor,--and of that labor which is
successful in proportion as it is joyously performed. My own task has
been cheered by the discovery, that the more closely I reproduced the
language of the original, the more of its rhythmical character was
transferred at the same time. If, now and then, there was an inevitable
alternative of meaning or music, I gave the preference to the former. By
the term "original metres" I do not mean a rigid, unyielding adherence
to every foot, line, and rhyme of the German original, although this has
very nearly been accomplished. Since the greater part of the work is
written in an irregular measure, the lines varying from three to six
feet, and the rhymes arranged according to the author's will, I do not
consider that an occasional change in the number of feet, or order of
rhyme, is any violation of the metrical plan. The single slight liberty
I have taken with the lyrical passages is in Margaret's song,--"The King
of Thule,"--in which, by omitting the alternate feminine rhymes, yet
retaining the metre, I was enabled to make the translation strictly
literal. If, in two or three instances, I have left a line unrhymed, I
have balanced the omission by giving rhymes to other lines which stand
unrhymed in the original text. For the same reason, I make no apology
for the imperfect rhymes, which are frequently a translation as well as
a necessity. With all its supreme qualities, _Faust_ is far from being a
technically perfect work.[K]

[K] "At present, everything runs in technical grooves, and the critical
gentlemen begin to wrangle whether in a rhyme an _s_ should correspond
with an _s_ and not with _sz_. If I were young and reckless enough, I
would purposely offend all such technical caprices: I would use
alliteration, assonance, false rhyme, just according to my own will or
convenience--but, at the same time, I would attend to the main thing,
and endeavor to say so many good things that every one would be
attracted to read and remember them."--_Goethe_, in 1831.

The feminine and dactylic rhymes, which have been for the most part
omitted by all metrical translators except Mr. Brooks, are
indispensable. The characteristic tone of many passages would be nearly
lost, without them. They give spirit and grace to the dialogue, point to
the aphoristic portions (especially in the Second Part), and an
ever-changing music to the lyrical passages. The English language,
though not so rich as the German in such rhymes, is less deficient than
is generally supposed. The difficulty to be overcome is one of
construction rather than of the vocabulary. The present participle can
only be used to a limited extent, on account of its weak termination,
and the want of an accusative form to the noun also restricts the
arrangement of words in English verse. I cannot hope to have been always
successful; but I have at least labored long and patiently, bearing
constantly in mind not only the meaning of the original and the
mechanical structure of the lines, but also that subtile and haunting
music which seems to govern rhythm instead of being governed by it.

B.T.

[Illustration]




AN GOETHE

_Erhabener Geist, im Geisterreich verloren!
Wo immer Deine lichte Wohnung sey,
Zum höh'ren Schaffen bist Du neugeboren,
Und singest dort die voll're Litanei.
Von jenem Streben das Du auserkoren,
Vom reinsten Aether, drin Du athmest frei,
O neige Dich zu gnädigem Erwiedern
Des letzten Wiederhalls von Deinen Liedern!


II

Den alten Musen die bestäubten Kronen
Nahmst Du, zu neuem Glanz, mit kühner Hand:
Du löst die Räthsel ältester Aeonen
Durch jüngeren Glauben, helleren Verstand,
Und machst, wo rege Menschengeister wohnen,
Die ganze Erde Dir zum Vaterland;
Und Deine Jünger sehn in Dir, verwundert,
Verkörpert schon das werdende Jahrhundert.


III

Was Du gesungen, Aller Lust und Klagen,
Des Lebens Wiedersprüche, neu vermählt,--
Die Harfe tausendstimmig frisch geschlagen,
Die Shakspeare einst, die einst Homer gewählt,--
Darf ich in fremde Klänge übertragen
Das Alles, wo so Mancher schon gefehlt?
Lass Deinen Geist in meiner Stimme klingen,
Und was Du sangst, lass mich es Dir nachsingen!_

B.T.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: =Dedication=]

Again ye come, ye hovering Forms! I find ye,
As early to my clouded sight ye shone!
Shall I attempt, this once, to seize and bind ye?
Still o'er my heart is that illusion thrown?
Ye crowd more near! Then, be the reign assigned ye,
And sway me from your misty, shadowy zone!
My bosom thrills, with youthful passion shaken,
From magic airs that round your march awaken.

Of joyous days ye bring the blissful vision;
The dear, familiar phantoms rise again,
And, like an old and half-extinct tradition,
First Love returns, with Friendship in his train.
Renewed is Pain: with mournful repetition
Life tracks his devious, labyrinthine chain,
And names the Good, whose cheating fortune tore them
From happy hours, and left me to deplore them.

They hear no longer these succeeding measures,
The souls, to whom my earliest songs I sang:

Dispersed the friendly troop, with all its pleasures,
And still, alas! the echoes first that rang!
I bring the unknown multitude my treasures;
Their very plaudits give my heart a pang,
And those beside, whose joy my Song so flattered,
If still they live, wide through the world are scattered.

And grasps me now a long-unwonted yearning
For that serene and solemn Spirit-Land:
My song, to faint Aeolian murmurs turning,
Sways like a harp-string by the breezes fanned.
I thrill and tremble; tear on tear is burning,
And the stern heart is tenderly unmanned.
What I possess, I see far distant lying,
And what I lost, grows real and undying.

[Illustration]

[Illustration: =Prelude at the Theatre=]



MANAGER    DRAMATIC POET    MERRY-ANDREW

MANAGER

You two, who oft a helping hand
Have lent, in need and tribulation.
Come, let me know your expectation
Of this, our enterprise, in German land!
I wish the crowd to feel itself well treated,
Especially since it lives and lets me live;
The posts are set, the booth of boards completed.
And each awaits the banquet I shall give.
Already there, with curious eyebrows raised,
They sit sedate, and hope to be amazed.
I know how one the People's taste may flatter,
Yet here a huge embarrassment I feel:
What they're accustomed to, is no great matter,
But then, alas! they've read an awful deal.
How shall we plan, that all be fresh and new,--
Important matter, yet attractive too?
For 'tis my pleasure-to behold them surging,
When to our booth the current sets apace,
And with tremendous, oft-repeated urging,
Squeeze onward through the narrow gate of grace:
By daylight even, they push and cram in
To reach the seller's box, a fighting host,
And as for bread, around a baker's door, in famine,
To get a ticket break their necks almost.
This miracle alone can work the Poet
On men so various: now, my friend, pray show it.


POET


Speak not to me of yonder motley masses,
Whom but to see, puts out the fire of Song!
Hide from my view the surging crowd that passes,
And in its whirlpool forces us along!
No, lead me where some heavenly silence glasses
The purer joys that round the Poet throng,--
Where Love and Friendship still divinely fashion
The bonds that bless, the wreaths that crown his passion!
Ah, every utterance from the depths of feeling
The timid lips have stammeringly expressed,--
Now failing, now, perchance, success revealing,--
Gulps the wild Moment in its greedy breast;
Or oft, reluctant years its warrant sealing,
Its perfect stature stands at last confessed!
What dazzles, for the Moment spends its spirit:
What's genuine, shall Posterity inherit.


MERRY-ANDREW


Posterity! Don't name the word to me!
If _I_ should choose to preach Posterity,
Where would you get contemporary fun?
That men _will_ have it, there's no blinking:
A fine young fellow's presence, to my thinking,
Is something worth, to every one.
Who genially his nature can outpour,
Takes from the People's moods no irritation;
The wider circle he acquires, the more
Securely works his inspiration.
Then pluck up heart, and give us sterling coin!
Let Fancy be with her attendants fitted,--
Sense, Reason, Sentiment, and Passion join,--
But have a care, lest Folly be omitted!

MANAGER

Chiefly, enough of incident prepare!
They come to look, and they prefer to stare.
Reel off a host of threads before their faces,
So that they gape in stupid wonder: then
By sheer diffuseness you have won their graces,
And are, at once, most popular of men.
Only by mass you touch the mass; for any
Will finally, himself, his bit select:
Who offers much, brings something unto many,
And each goes home content with the effect,
If you've a piece, why, just in pieces give it:
A hash, a stew, will bring success, believe it!
'Tis easily displayed, and easy to invent.
What use, a Whole compactly to present?
Your hearers pick and pluck, as soon as they receive it!

POET

You do not feel, how such a trade debases;
How ill it suits the Artist, proud and true!
The botching work each fine pretender traces
Is, I perceive, a principle with you.

MANAGER

Such a reproach not in the least offends;
A man who some result intends
Must use the tools that best are fitting.
Reflect, soft wood is given to you for splitting,
And then, observe for whom you write!
If one comes bored, exhausted quite,
Another, satiate, leaves the banquet's tapers,
And, worst of all, full many a wight
Is fresh from reading of the daily papers.
Idly to us they come, as to a masquerade,
Mere curiosity their spirits warming:
The ladies with themselves, and with their finery, aid,
Without a salary their parts performing.
What dreams are yours in high poetic places?
You're pleased, forsooth, full houses to behold?
Draw near, and view your patrons' faces!
The half are coarse, the half are cold.
One, when the play is out, goes home to cards;
A wild night on a wench's breast another chooses:
Why should you rack, poor, foolish bards,
For ends like these, the gracious Muses?
I tell you, give but more--more, ever more, they ask:
Thus shall you hit the mark of gain and glory.
Seek to confound your auditory!
To satisfy them is a task.--
What ails you now? Is't suffering, or pleasure?

POET

Go, find yourself a more obedient slave!
What! shall the Poet that which Nature gave,
The highest right, supreme Humanity,
Forfeit so wantonly, to swell your treasure?
Whence o'er the heart his empire free?
The elements of Life how conquers he?
Is't not his heart's accord, urged outward far and dim,
To wind the world in unison with him?
When on the spindle, spun to endless distance,
By Nature's listless hand the thread is twirled,
And the discordant tones of all existence
In sullen jangle are together hurled,
Who, then, the changeless orders of creation
Divides, and kindles into rhythmic dance?
Who brings the One to join the general ordination,
Where it may throb in grandest consonance?
Who bids the storm to passion stir the bosom?
In brooding souls the sunset burn above?
Who scatters every fairest April blossom
Along the shining path of Love?
Who braids the noteless leaves to crowns, requiting
Desert with fame, in Action's every field?
Who makes Olympus sure, the Gods uniting?
The might of Man, as in the Bard revealed.

MERRY-ANDREW

So, these fine forces, in conjunction,
Propel the high poetic function,
As in a love-adventure they might play!
You meet by accident; you feel, you stay,
And by degrees your heart is tangled;
Bliss grows apace, and then its course is jangled;
You're ravished quite, then comes a touch of woe,
And there's a neat romance, completed ere you know!
Let us, then, such a drama give!
Grasp the exhaustless life that all men live!
Each shares therein, though few may comprehend:
Where'er you touch, there's interest without end.
In motley pictures little light,
Much error, and of truth a glimmering mite,
Thus the best beverage is supplied,
Whence all the world is cheered and edified.
Then, at your play, behold the fairest flower
Of youth collect, to hear the revelation!
Each tender soul, with sentimental power,
Sucks melancholy food from your creation;
And now in this, now that, the leaven works.
For each beholds what in his bosom lurks.
They still are moved at once to weeping or to laughter,
Still wonder at your flights, enjoy the show they see:
A mind, once formed, is never suited after;
One yet in growth will ever grateful be.

POET

Then give me back that time of pleasures,
While yet in joyous growth I sang,--
When, like a fount, the crowding measures
Uninterrupted gushed and sprang!
Then bright mist veiled the world before me,
In opening buds a marvel woke,
As I the thousand blossoms broke,
Which every valley richly bore me!
I nothing had, and yet enough for youth--
Joy in Illusion, ardent thirst for Truth.
Give, unrestrained, the old emotion,
The bliss that touched the verge of pain,
The strength of Hate, Love's deep devotion,--
O, give me back my youth again!

MERRY ANDREW

Youth, good my friend, you certainly require
When foes in combat sorely press you;
When lovely maids, in fond desire,
Hang on your bosom and caress you;
When from the hard-won goal the wreath
Beckons afar, the race awaiting;
When, after dancing out your breath,
You pass the night in dissipating:--
But that familiar harp with soul
To play,--with grace and bold expression,
And towards a self-erected goal
To walk with many a sweet digression,--
This, aged Sirs, belongs to you,
And we no less revere you for that reason:
Age childish makes, they say, but 'tis not true;
We're only genuine children still, in Age's season!


MANAGER

The words you've bandied are sufficient;
'Tis deeds that I prefer to see:
In compliments you're both proficient,
But might, the while, more useful be.
What need to talk of Inspiration?
'Tis no companion of Delay.
If Poetry be your vocation,
Let Poetry your will obey!
Full well you know what here is wanting;
The crowd for strongest drink is panting,
And such, forthwith, I'd have you brew.
What's left undone to-day, To-morrow will not do.
Waste not a day in vain digression:
With resolute, courageous trust
Seize every possible impression,
And make it firmly your possession;
You'll then work on, because you must.
Upon our German stage, you know it,
Each tries his hand at what he will;
So, take of traps and scenes your fill,
And all you find, be sure to show it!
Use both the great and lesser heavenly light,--
Squander the stars in any number,
Beasts, birds, trees, rocks, and all such lumber,
Fire, water, darkness, Day and Night!
Thus, in our booth's contracted sphere,
The circle of Creation will appear,
And move, as we deliberately impel,
From Heaven, across the World, to Hell!
[Illustration]
[Illustration]

PROLOGUE IN HEAVEN

THE LORD THE HEAVENLY HOST _Afterwards_
MEPHISTOPHELES

(_The_ THREE ARCHANGELS _come forward_.)


RAPHAEL

The sun-orb sings, in emulation,
'Mid brother-spheres, his ancient round:
His path predestined through Creation
He ends with step of thunder-sound.
The angels from his visage splendid
Draw power, whose measure none can say;
The lofty works, uncomprehended,
Are bright as on the earliest day.


GABRIEL

And swift, and swift beyond conceiving,
The splendor of the world goes round,
Day's Eden-brightness still relieving
The awful Night's intense profound:
The ocean-tides in foam are breaking,
Against the rocks' deep bases hurled,
And both, the spheric race partaking,
Eternal, swift, are onward whirled!


MICHAEL

And rival storms abroad are surging
From sea to land, from land to sea.
A chain of deepest action forging
Round all, in wrathful energy.
There flames a desolation, blazing
Before the Thunder's crashing way:
Yet, Lord, Thy messengers are praising
The gentle movement of Thy Day.


THE THREE

Though still by them uncomprehended,
From these the angels draw their power,
And all Thy works, sublime and splendid,
Are bright as in Creation's hour.


MEPHISTOPHELES

Since Thou, O Lord, deign'st to approach again
And ask us how we do, in manner kindest,
And heretofore to meet myself wert fain,
Among Thy menials, now, my face Thou findest.
Pardon, this troop I cannot follow after
With lofty speech, though by them scorned and spurned:
My pathos certainly would move Thy laughter,
If Thou hadst not all merriment unlearned.
Of suns and worlds I've nothing to be quoted;
How men torment themselves, is all I've noted.
The little god o' the world sticks to the same old way,
And is as whimsical as on Creation's day.
Life somewhat better might content him,
But for the gleam of heavenly light which Thou hast lent
  him:
He calls it Reason--thence his power's increased,
To be far beastlier than any beast.
Saving Thy Gracious Presence, he to me
A long-legged grasshopper appears to be,
That springing flies, and flying springs,
And in the grass the same old ditty sings.
Would he still lay among the grass he grows in!
Each bit of dung he seeks, to stick his nose in.


THE LORD

Hast thou, then, nothing more to mention?
Com'st ever, thus, with ill intention?
Find'st nothing right on earth, eternally?


MEPHISTOPHELES

No, Lord! I find things, there, still bad as they can be.
Man's misery even to pity moves my nature;
I've scarce the heart to plague the wretched creature.


THE LORD

Know'st Faust?


MEPHISTOPHELES

The Doctor Faust?


THE LORD

My servant, he!


MEPHISTOPHELES

Forsooth! He serves you after strange devices:
No earthly meat or drink the fool suffices:
His spirit's ferment far aspireth;
Half conscious of his frenzied, crazed unrest,
The fairest stars from Heaven he requireth,
From Earth the highest raptures and the best,
And all the Near and Far that he desireth
Fails to subdue the tumult of his breast.


THE LORD

Though still confused his service unto Me,
I soon shall lead him to a clearer morning.
Sees not the gardener, even while buds his tree,
Both flower and fruit the future years adorning?


MEPHISTOPHELES

What will you bet? There's still a chance to gain him,
If unto me full leave you give,
Gently upon _my_ road to train him!


THE LORD

As long as he on earth shall live,
So long I make no prohibition.
While Man's desires and aspirations stir,
He cannot choose but err.


MEPHISTOPHELES

My thanks! I find the dead no acquisition,
And never cared to have them in my keeping.
I much prefer the cheeks where ruddy blood is leaping,
And when a corpse approaches, close my house:
It goes with me, as with the cat the mouse.


THE LORD

Enough! What thou hast asked is granted.
Turn off this spirit from his fountain-head;
To trap him, let thy snares be planted,
And him, with thee, be downward led;
Then stand abashed, when thou art forced to say:
A good man, through obscurest aspiration,
Has still an instinct of the one true way.


MEPHISTOPHELES

Agreed! But 'tis a short probation.
About my bet I feel no trepidation.
If I fulfill my expectation,
You'll let me triumph with a swelling breast:
Dust shall he eat, and with a zest,
As did a certain snake, my near relation.


THE LORD

Therein thou'rt free, according to thy merits;
The like of thee have never moved My hate.
Of all the bold, denying Spirits,
The waggish knave least trouble doth create.
Man's active nature, flagging, seeks too soon the level;
Unqualified repose he learns to crave;
Whence, willingly, the comrade him I gave,
Who works, excites, and must create, as Devil.
But ye, God's sons in love and duty,
Enjoy the rich, the ever-living Beauty!
Creative Power, that works eternal schemes,
Clasp you in bonds of love, relaxing never,
And what in wavering apparition gleams
Fix in its place with thoughts that stand forever!


(_Heaven closes: the_ ARCHANGELS _separate_.)


MEPHISTOPHELES (_solus_)

I like, at times, to hear The Ancient's word,
And have a care to be most civil:
It's really kind of such a noble Lord
So humanly to gossip with the Devil!
[Illustration]
[Illustration]




FIRST PART OF THE TRAGEDY

I

NIGHT

(_A lofty-arched, narrow, Gothic chamber_. FAUST, _in a chair at his
desk, restless_.)


FAUST

I've studied now Philosophy
And Jurisprudence, Medicine,--
And even, alas! Theology,--
From end to end, with labor keen;
And here, poor fool! with all my lore
I stand, no wiser than before:
I'm Magister--yea, Doctor--hight,
And straight or cross-wise, wrong or right,
These ten years long, with many woes,
I've led my scholars by the nose,--
And see, that nothing can be known!
_That_ knowledge cuts me to the bone.
I'm cleverer, true, than those fops of teachers,
Doctors and Magisters, Scribes and Preachers;
Neither scruples nor doubts come now to smite me,
Nor Hell nor Devil can longer affright me.

For this, all pleasure am I foregoing;
I do not pretend to aught worth knowing,
I do not pretend I could be a teacher
To help or convert a fellow-creature.
Then, too, I've neither lands nor gold,
Nor the world's least pomp or honor hold--
No dog would endure such a curst existence!
Wherefore, from Magic I seek assistance,
That many a secret perchance I reach
Through spirit-power and spirit-speech,
And thus the bitter task forego
Of saying the things I do not know,--
That I may detect the inmost force
Which binds the world, and guides its course;
Its germs, productive powers explore,
And rummage in empty words no more!

O full and splendid Moon, whom I
Have, from this desk, seen climb the sky
So many a midnight,--would thy glow
For the last time beheld my woe!
Ever thine eye, most mournful friend,
O'er books and papers saw me bend;
But would that I, on mountains grand,
Amid thy blessed light could stand,
With spirits through mountain-caverns hover,
Float in thy twilight the meadows over,
And, freed from the fumes of lore that swathe me,
To health in thy dewy fountains bathe me!

Ah, me! this dungeon still I see.
This drear, accursed masonry,
Where even the welcome daylight strains
But duskly through the painted panes.
Hemmed in by many a toppling heap
Of books worm-eaten, gray with dust,
Which to the vaulted ceiling creep,
Against the smoky paper thrust,--
With glasses, boxes, round me stacked,
And instruments together hurled,
Ancestral lumber, stuffed and packed--
Such is my world: and what a world!

And do I ask, wherefore my heart
Falters, oppressed with unknown needs?
Why some inexplicable smart
All movement of my life impedes?
Alas! in living Nature's stead,
Where God His human creature set,
In smoke and mould the fleshless dead
And bones of beasts surround me yet!

Fly! Up, and seek the broad, free land!
And this one Book of Mystery
From Nostradamus' very hand,
Is't not sufficient company?
When I the starry courses know,
And Nature's wise instruction seek,
With light of power my soul shall glow,
As when to spirits spirits speak.
Tis vain, this empty brooding here,
Though guessed the holy symbols be:
Ye, Spirits, come--ye hover near--
Oh, if you hear me, answer me!

(_He opens the Book, and perceives the sign of the Macrocosm_.)

Ha! what a sudden rapture leaps from this
I view, through all my senses swiftly flowing!
I feel a youthful, holy, vital bliss
In every vein and fibre newly glowing.
Was it a God, who traced this sign,
With calm across my tumult stealing,
My troubled heart to joy unsealing,
With impulse, mystic and divine,
The powers of Nature here, around my path, revealing?
Am I a God?--so clear mine eyes!
In these pure features I behold
Creative Nature to my soul unfold.
What says the sage, now first I recognize:
"The spirit-world no closures fasten;
Thy sense is shut, thy heart is dead:
Disciple, up! untiring, hasten
To bathe thy breast in morning-red!"

(_He contemplates the sign_.)

How each the Whole its substance gives,
Each in the other works and lives!
Like heavenly forces rising and descending,
Their golden urns reciprocally lending,
With wings that winnow blessing
From Heaven through Earth I see them pressing,
Filling the All with harmony unceasing!
How grand a show! but, ah! a show alone.
Thee, boundless Nature, how make thee my own?
Where you, ye beasts? Founts of all Being, shining,
Whereon hang Heaven's and Earth's desire,
Whereto our withered hearts aspire,--
Ye flow, ye feed: and am I vainly pining?

(_He turns the leaves impatiently, and perceives the sign of the
Earth-Spirit_.)

How otherwise upon me works this sign!
Thou, Spirit of the Earth, art nearer:
Even now my powers are loftier, clearer;
I glow, as drunk with new-made wine:
New strength and heart to meet the world incite me,
The woe of earth, the bliss of earth, invite me,
And though the shock of storms may smite me,
No crash of shipwreck shall have power to fright me!
Clouds gather over me--
The moon conceals her light--
The lamp's extinguished!--
Mists rise,--red, angry rays are darting
Around my head!--There falls
A horror from the vaulted roof,
And seizes me!
I feel thy presence, Spirit I invoke!
Reveal thyself!
Ha! in my heart what rending stroke!
With new impulsion
My senses heave in this convulsion!
I feel thee draw my heart, absorb, exhaust me:
Thou must! thou must! and though my life it cost me!

(_He seizes the book, and mysteriously pronounces the sign of
the Spirit. A ruddy flame flashes: the Spirit appears in
the flame_.)


SPIRIT

Who calls me?


FAUST (_with averted head_)

Terrible to see!


SPIRIT

Me hast thou long with might attracted,
Long from my sphere thy food exacted,
And now--

FAUST

  Woe! I endure not thee!


SPIRIT

To view me is thine aspiration,
My voice to hear, my countenance to see;
Thy powerful yearning moveth me,
Here am I!--what mean perturbation
Thee, superhuman, shakes? Thy soul's high calling, where?
Where is the breast, which from itself a world did bear,
And shaped and cherished--which with joy expanded,
To be our peer, with us, the Spirits, banded?
Where art thou, Faust, whose voice has pierced to me,
Who towards me pressed with all thine energy?
_He_ art thou, who, my presence breathing, seeing,
Trembles through all the depths of being,
A writhing worm, a terror-stricken form?


FAUST

Thee, form of flame, shall I then fear?
Yes, I am Faust: I am thy peer!


SPIRIT

  In the tides of Life, in Action's storm,
  A fluctuant wave,
  A shuttle free,
  Birth and the Grave,
  An eternal sea,
  A weaving, flowing
  Life, all-glowing,
Thus at Time's humming loom 'tis my hand prepares
The garment of Life which the Deity wears!


FAUST

Thou, who around the wide world wendest,
Thou busy Spirit, how near I feel to thee!


SPIRIT

Thou'rt like the Spirit which thou comprehendest,
Not me!

(_Disappears_.)


FAUST (_overwhelmed_)

Not thee!
Whom then?
I, image of the Godhead!
Not even like thee!

(_A knock_).

O Death!--I know it--'tis my Famulus!
My fairest luck finds no fruition:
In all the fullness of my vision
The soulless sneak disturbs me thus!

(_Enter_ WAGNER_, in dressing-gown and night-cap, a lamp in
his hand. _FAUST_ turns impatiently_.)


WAGNER

Pardon, I heard your declamation;
'Twas sure an old Greek tragedy you read?
In such an art I crave some preparation,
Since now it stands one in good stead.
I've often heard it said, a preacher
Might learn, with a comedian for a teacher.


FAUST

Yes, when the priest comedian is by nature,
As haply now and then the case may be.


WAGNER

Ah, when one studies thus, a prisoned creature,
That scarce the world on holidays can see,--
Scarce through a glass, by rare occasion,
How shall one lead it by persuasion?


FAUST

You'll ne'er attain it, save you know the feeling,
Save from the soul it rises clear,
Serene in primal strength, compelling
The hearts and minds of all who hear.
You sit forever gluing, patching;
You cook the scraps from others' fare;
And from your heap of ashes hatching
A starveling flame, ye blow it bare!
Take children's, monkeys' gaze admiring,
If such your taste, and be content;
But ne'er from heart to heart you'll speak inspiring,
Save your own heart is eloquent!


WAGNER

Yet through delivery orators succeed;
I feel that I am far behind, indeed.


FAUST

Seek thou the honest recompense!
Beware, a tinkling fool to be!
With little art, clear wit and sense
Suggest their own delivery;
And if thou'rt moved to speak in earnest,
What need, that after words thou yearnest?
Yes, your discourses, with their glittering show,
Where ye for men twist shredded thought like paper,
Are unrefreshing as the winds that blow
The rustling leaves through chill autumnal vapor!


WAGNER

Ah, God! but Art is long,
And Life, alas! is fleeting.
And oft, with zeal my critic-duties meeting,
In head and breast there's something wrong.

How hard it is to compass the assistance
Whereby one rises to the source!
And, haply, ere one travels half the course
Must the poor devil quit existence.


FAUST

Is parchment, then, the holy fount before thee,
A draught wherefrom thy thirst forever slakes?
No true refreshment can restore thee,
Save what from thine own soul spontaneous breaks.


WAGNER

Pardon! a great delight is granted
When, in the spirit of the ages planted,
We mark how, ere our times, a sage has thought,
And then, how far his work, and grandly, we have brought.


FAUST

O yes, up to the stars at last!
Listen, my friend: the ages that are past
Are now a book with seven seals protected:
What you the Spirit of the Ages call
Is nothing but the spirit of you all,
Wherein the Ages are reflected.
So, oftentimes, you miserably mar it!
At the first glance who sees it runs away.
An offal-barrel and a lumber-garret,
Or, at the best, a Punch-and-Judy play,
With maxims most pragmatical and hitting,
As in the mouths of puppets are befitting!


WAGNER

But then, the world--the human heart and brain!
Of these one covets some slight apprehension.


FAUST

Yes, of the kind which men attain!
Who dares the child's true name in public mention?
The few, who thereof something really learned,
Unwisely frank, with hearts that spurned concealing,
And to the mob laid bare each thought and feeling,
Have evermore been crucified and burned.
I pray you, Friend, 'tis now the dead of night;
Our converse here must be suspended.


WAGNER

I would have shared your watches with delight,
That so our learned talk might be extended.
To-morrow, though, I'll ask, in Easter leisure,
This and the other question, at your pleasure.
Most zealously I seek for erudition:
Much do I know--but to know all is my ambition.

                                            [_Exit_.


FAUST (_solus_)

That brain, alone, not loses hope, whose choice is
To stick in shallow trash forevermore,--
Which digs with eager hand for buried ore,
And, when it finds an angle-worm, rejoices!

Dare such a human voice disturb the flow,
Around me here, of spirit-presence fullest?
And yet, this once my thanks I owe
To thee, of all earth's sons the poorest, dullest!
For thou hast torn me from that desperate state
Which threatened soon to overwhelm my senses:
The apparition was so giant-great,
It dwarfed and withered all my soul's pretences!

I, image of the Godhead, who began--
Deeming Eternal Truth secure in nearness--
Ye choirs, have ye begun the sweet, consoling chant,
Which, through the night of Death, the angels ministrant
Sang, God's new Covenant repeating?


CHORUS OF WOMEN

          With spices and precious
          Balm, we arrayed him;
          Faithful and gracious,
          We tenderly laid him:
          Linen to bind him
          Cleanlily wound we:
          Ah! when we would find him,
          Christ no more found we!


CHORUS OF ANGELS

          Christ is ascended!
          Bliss hath invested him,--
          Woes that molested him,
          Trials that tested him,
          Gloriously ended!


FAUST

Why, here in dust, entice me with your spell,
Ye gentle, powerful sounds of Heaven?
Peal rather there, where tender natures dwell.
Your messages I hear, but faith has not been given;
The dearest child of Faith is Miracle.
I venture not to soar to yonder regions
Whence the glad tidings hither float;
And yet, from childhood up familiar with the note,
To Life it now renews the old allegiance.
Once Heavenly Love sent down a burning kiss
Upon my brow, in Sabbath silence holy;
And, filled with mystic presage, chimed the church-bell slowly,
And prayer dissolved me in a fervent bliss.
A sweet, uncomprehended yearning
Drove forth my feet through woods and meadows free,
And while a thousand tears were burning,
I felt a world arise for me.
These chants, to youth and all its sports appealing,
Proclaimed the Spring's rejoicing holiday;
And Memory holds me now, with childish feeling,
Back from the last, the solemn way.
Sound on, ye hymns of Heaven, so sweet and mild!
My tears gush forth: the Earth takes back her child!


CHORUS OF DISCIPLES

        Has He, victoriously,
        Burst from the vaulted
        Grave, and all-gloriously
        Now sits exalted?
        Is He, in glow of birth,
        Rapture creative near?
        Ah! to the woe of earth
        Still are we native here.
        We, his aspiring
        Followers, Him we miss;
        Weeping, desiring,
        Master, Thy bliss!

CHORUS OF ANGELS

        Christ is arisen,
        Out of Corruption's womb:
        Burst ye the prison,
        Break from your gloom!
        Praising and pleading him,
        Lovingly needing him,
        Brotherly feeding him,
        Preaching and speeding him,
        Blessing, succeeding Him,
        Thus is the Master near,--
        Thus is He here!
[Illustration]




II

BEFORE THE CITY-GATE

(_Pedestrians of all kinds come forth_.)


SEVERAL APPRENTICES

Why do you go that way?


OTHERS

We're for the Hunters' lodge, to-day.


THE FIRST

We'll saunter to the Mill, in yonder hollow.


AN APPRENTICE

Go to the River Tavern, I should say.


SECOND APPRENTICE

But then, it's not a pleasant way.


THE OTHERS

And what will _you_?

A THIRD

            As goes the crowd, I follow.


A FOURTH

Come up to Burgdorf? There you'll find good cheer,
The finest lasses and the best of beer,
And jolly rows and squabbles, trust me!


A FIFTH

You swaggering fellow, is your hide
A third time itching to be tried?
I won't go there, your jolly rows disgust me!


SERVANT-GIRL

No,--no! I'll turn and go to town again.


ANOTHER

We'll surely find him by those poplars yonder.


THE FIRST

That's no great luck for me, 'tis plain.
You'll have him, when and where you wander:
His partner in the dance you'll be,--
But what is all your fun to me?


THE OTHER

He's surely not alone to-day:
He'll be with Curly-head, I heard him say.


A STUDENT

Deuce! how they step, the buxom wenches!
Come, Brother! we must see them to the benches.
A strong, old beer, a pipe that stings and bites,
A girl in Sunday clothes,--these three are my delights.


CITIZEN'S DAUGHTER

Just see those handsome fellows, there!
It's really shameful, I declare;--
To follow servant-girls, when they
Might have the most genteel society to-day!


SECOND STUDENT (_to the First_)

Not quite so fast! Two others come behind,--
Those, dressed so prettily and neatly.
My neighbor's one of them, I find,
A girl that takes my heart, completely.
They go their way with looks demure,
But they'll accept us, after all, I'm sure.


THE FIRST

No, Brother! not for me their formal ways.
Quick! lest our game escape us in the press:
The hand that wields the broom on Saturdays
Will best, on Sundays, fondle and caress.


CITIZEN

He suits me not at all, our new-made Burgomaster!
Since he's installed, his arrogance grows faster.
How has he helped the town, I say?
Things worsen,--what improvement names he?
Obedience, more than ever, claims he,
And more than ever we must pay!


BEGGAR (_sings_)

  Good gentlemen and lovely ladies,
  So red of cheek and fine of dress,
  Behold, how needful here your aid is,
  And see and lighten my distress!
  Let me not vainly sing my ditty;
  He's only glad who gives away:
  A holiday, that shows your pity,
  Shall be for me a harvest-day!


ANOTHER CITIZEN

On Sundays, holidays, there's naught I take delight in,
Like gossiping of war, and war's array,
When down in Turkey, far away,
The foreign people are a-fighting.
One at the window sits, with glass and friends,
And sees all sorts of ships go down the river gliding:
And blesses then, as home he wends
At night, our times of peace abiding.


THIRD CITIZEN

Yes, Neighbor! that's my notion, too:
Why, let them break their heads, let loose their passions,
And mix things madly through and through,
So, here, we keep our good old fashions!


OLD WOMAN (_to the Citizen's Daughter_)

Dear me, how fine! So handsome, and so young!
Who wouldn't lose his heart, that met you?
Don't be so proud! I'll hold my tongue,
And what you'd like I'll undertake to get you.


CITIZEN'S DAUGHTER

Come, Agatha! I shun the witch's sight
Before folks, lest there be misgiving:
'Tis true, she showed me, on Saint Andrew's Night,
My future sweetheart, just as he were living.


THE OTHER

She showed me mine, in crystal clear,
With several wild young blades, a soldier-lover:
I seek him everywhere, I pry and peer,
And yet, somehow, his face I can't discover.

SOLDIERS

        Castles, with lofty
        Ramparts and towers,
        Maidens disdainful
        In Beauty's array,
        Both shall be ours!
        Bold is the venture,
        Splendid the pay!
        Lads, let the trumpets
        For us be suing,--
        Calling to pleasure,
        Calling to ruin.
        Stormy our life is;
        Such is its boon!
        Maidens and castles
        Capitulate soon.
        Bold is the venture,
        Splendid the pay!
        And the soldiers go marching,
        Marching away!


FAUST AND WAGNER


FAUST

Released from ice are brook and river
By the quickening glance of the gracious Spring;
The colors of hope to the valley cling,
And weak old Winter himself must shiver,
Withdrawn to the mountains, a crownless king:
Whence, ever retreating, he sends again
Impotent showers of sleet that darkle
In belts across the green o' the plain.
But the sun will permit no white to sparkle;
Everywhere form in development moveth;
He will brighten the world with the tints he loveth,
And, lacking blossoms, blue, yellow, and red,
He takes these gaudy people instead.
Turn thee about, and from this height
Back on the town direct thy sight.
Out of the hollow, gloomy gate,
The motley throngs come forth elate:
Each will the joy of the sunshine hoard,
To honor the Day of the Risen Lord!
They feel, themselves, their resurrection:
From the low, dark rooms, scarce habitable;
From the bonds of Work, from Trade's restriction;
From the pressing weight of roof and gable;
From the narrow, crushing streets and alleys;
From the churches' solemn and reverend night,
All come forth to the cheerful light.
How lively, see! the multitude sallies,
Scattering through gardens and fields remote,
While over the river, that broadly dallies,
Dances so many a festive boat;
And overladen, nigh to sinking,
The last full wherry takes the stream.
Yonder afar, from the hill-paths blinking,
Their clothes are colors that softly gleam.
I hear the noise of the village, even;
Here is the People's proper Heaven;
Here high and low contented see!
Here I am Man,--dare man to be!


WAGNER

To stroll with you, Sir Doctor, flatters;
'Tis honor, profit, unto me.
But I, alone, would shun these shallow matters,
Since all that's coarse provokes my enmity.
This fiddling, shouting, ten-pin rolling
I hate,--these noises of the throng:
They rave, as Satan were their sports controlling.
And call it mirth, and call it song!


PEASANTS, UNDER THE LINDEN-TREE
  (_Dance and Song_.)

          All for the dance the shepherd dressed,
          In ribbons, wreath, and gayest vest
            Himself with care arraying:
          Around the linden lass and lad
          Already footed it like mad:
            Hurrah! hurrah!
            Hurrah--tarara-la!
          The fiddle-bow was playing.

          He broke the ranks, no whit afraid,
          And with his elbow punched a maid,
            Who stood, the dance surveying:
          The buxom wench, she turned and said:
          "Now, you I call a stupid-head!"
            Hurrah! hurrah!
            Hurrah--tarara-la!
          "Be decent while you're staying!"

          Then round the circle went their flight,
          They danced to left, they danced to right:
          Their kirtles all were playing.
          They first grew red, and then grew warm,
          And rested, panting, arm in arm,--
            Hurrah! hurrah!
            Hurrah--tarara-la!
          And hips and elbows straying.

          Now, don't be so familiar here!
          How many a one has fooled his dear,
          Waylaying and betraying!

          And yet, he coaxed her soon aside,
          And round the linden sounded wide.
            Hurrah! hurrah!
            Hurrah--tarara-la!
          And the fiddle-bow was playing.

OLD PEASANT

Sir Doctor, it is good of you,
That thus you condescend, to-day,
Among this crowd of merry folk,
A highly-learned man, to stray.
Then also take the finest can,
We fill with fresh wine, for your sake:
I offer it, and humbly wish
That not alone your thirst is slake,--
That, as the drops below its brink,
So many days of life you drink!


FAUST

I take the cup you kindly reach,
With thanks and health to all and each.

(_The People gather in a circle about him_.)


OLD PEASANT

In truth, 'tis well and fitly timed,
That now our day of joy you share,
Who heretofore, in evil days,
Gave us so much of helping care.
Still many a man stands living here,
Saved by your father's skillful hand,
That snatched him from the fever's rage
And stayed the plague in all the land.
Then also you, though but a youth,
Went into every house of pain:
Many the corpses carried forth,
But you in health came out again.

FAUST

No test or trial you evaded:
A Helping God the helper aided.

ALL

Health to the man, so skilled and tried.
That for our help he long may abide!

FAUST

To Him above bow down, my friends,
Who teaches help, and succor sends!

(_He goes on with_ WAGNER.)

WAGNER

With what a feeling, thou great man, must thou
Receive the people's honest veneration!
How lucky he, whose gifts his station
With such advantages endow!
Thou'rt shown to all the younger generation:
Each asks, and presses near to gaze;
The fiddle stops, the dance delays.
Thou goest, they stand in rows to see,
And all the caps are lifted high;
A little more, and they would bend the knee
As if the Holy Host came by.

FAUST

A few more steps ascend, as far as yonder stone!--
Here from our wandering will we rest contented.
Here, lost in thought, I've lingered oft alone,
When foolish fasts and prayers my life tormented.
Here, rich in hope and firm in faith,
With tears, wrung hands and sighs, I've striven,
The end of that far-spreading death
Entreating from the Lord of Heaven!
Now like contempt the crowd's applauses seem:
Couldst thou but read, within mine inmost spirit,
How little now I deem,
That sire or son such praises merit!
My father's was a sombre, brooding brain,
Which through the holy spheres of Nature groped and wandered,
And honestly, in his own fashion, pondered
With labor whimsical, and pain:
Who, in his dusky work-shop bending,
With proved adepts in company,
Made, from his recipes unending,
Opposing substances agree.
There was a Lion red, a wooer daring,
Within the Lily's tepid bath espoused,
And both, tormented then by flame unsparing,
By turns in either bridal chamber housed.
If then appeared, with colors splendid,
The young Queen in her crystal shell,
This was the medicine--the patients' woes soon ended,
And none demanded: who got well?
Thus we, our hellish boluses compounding,
Among these vales and hills surrounding,
Worse than the pestilence, have passed.
Thousands were done to death from poison of my giving;
And I must hear, by all the living,
The shameless murderers praised at last!

WAGNER

Why, therefore, yield to such depression?
A good man does his honest share
In exercising, with the strictest care,
The art bequeathed to his possession!
Dost thou thy father honor, as a youth?
Then may his teaching cheerfully impel thee:
Dost thou, as man, increase the stores of truth?
Then may thine own son afterwards excel thee.

FAUST

O happy he, who still renews
The hope, from Error's deeps to rise forever!
That which one does not know, one needs to use;
And what one knows, one uses never.
But let us not, by such despondence, so
The fortune of this hour embitter!
Mark how, beneath the evening sunlight's glow,
The green-embosomed houses glitter!
The glow retreats, done is the day of toil;
It yonder hastes, new fields of life exploring;
Ah, that no wing can lift me from the soil,
Upon its track to follow, follow soaring!
Then would I see eternal Evening gild
The silent world beneath me glowing,
On fire each mountain-peak, with peace each valley filled,
The silver brook to golden rivers flowing.
The mountain-chain, with all its gorges deep,
Would then no more impede my godlike motion;
And now before mine eyes expands the ocean
With all its bays, in shining sleep!
Yet, finally, the weary god is sinking;
The new-born impulse fires my mind,--
I hasten on, his beams eternal drinking,
The Day before me and the Night behind,
Above me heaven unfurled, the floor of waves beneath me,--
A glorious dream! though now the glories fade.
Alas! the wings that lift the mind no aid
Of wings to lift the body can bequeath me.
Yet in each soul is born the pleasure
Of yearning onward, upward and away,
When o'er our heads, lost in the vaulted azure,
The lark sends down his flickering lay,--
When over crags and piny highlands
The poising eagle slowly soars,
And over plains and lakes and islands
The crane sails by to other shores.

WAGNER

I've had, myself, at times, some odd caprices,
But never yet such impulse felt, as this is.
One soon fatigues, on woods and fields to look,
Nor would I beg the bird his wing to spare us:
How otherwise the mental raptures bear us
From page to page, from book to book!
Then winter nights take loveliness untold,
As warmer life in every limb had crowned you;
And when your hands unroll some parchment rare and old,
All Heaven descends, and opens bright around you!

FAUST

One impulse art thou conscious of, at best;
O, never seek to know the other!
Two souls, alas! reside within my breast,
And each withdraws from, and repels, its brother.
One with tenacious organs holds in love
And clinging lust the world in its embraces;
The other strongly sweeps, this dust above,
Into the high ancestral spaces.
If there be airy spirits near,
'Twixt Heaven and Earth on potent errands fleeing,
Let them drop down the golden atmosphere,
And bear me forth to new and varied being!
Yea, if a magic mantle once were mine,
To waft me o'er the world at pleasure,
I would not for the costliest stores of treasure--
Not for a monarch's robe--the gift resign.

WAGNER

Invoke not thus the well-known throng,
Which through the firmament diffused is faring,
And danger thousand-fold, our race to wrong.
In every quarter is preparing.
Swift from the North the spirit-fangs so sharp
Sweep down, and with their barbéd points assail you;
Then from the East they come, to dry and warp
Your lungs, till breath and being fail you:
If from the Desert sendeth them the South,
With fire on fire your throbbing forehead crowning,
The West leads on a host, to cure the drouth
Only when meadow, field, and you are drowning.
They gladly hearken, prompt for injury,--
Gladly obey, because they gladly cheat us;
From Heaven they represent themselves to be,
And lisp like angels, when with lies they meet us.
But, let us go! 'Tis gray and dusky all:
The air is cold, the vapors fall.
At night, one learns his house to prize:--
Why stand you thus, with such astonished eyes?
What, in the twilight, can your mind so trouble?

FAUST

Seest thou the black dog coursing there, through corn and
stubble?

WAGNER

Long since: yet deemed him not important in the least.

FAUST

Inspect him close: for what tak'st thou the beast?

WAGNER

Why, for a poodle who has lost his master,
And scents about, his track to find.

FAUST

Seest thou the spiral circles, narrowing faster,
Which he, approaching, round us seems to wind?
A streaming trail of fire, if I see rightly,
Follows his path of mystery.

WAGNER

It may be that your eyes deceive you slightly;
Naught but a plain black poodle do I see.

FAUST

It seems to me that with enchanted cunning
He snares our feet, some future chain to bind.

WAGNER

I see him timidly, in doubt, around us running,
Since, in his master's stead, two strangers doth he find.

FAUST

The circle narrows: he is near!

WAGNER

A dog thou seest, and not a phantom, here!
Behold him stop--upon his belly crawl--His
tail set wagging: canine habits, all!

FAUST

Come, follow us! Come here, at least!

WAGNER

'Tis the absurdest, drollest beast.
Stand still, and you will see him wait;
Address him, and he gambols straight;
If something's lost, he'll quickly bring it,--
Your cane, if in the stream you fling it.

FAUST

No doubt you're right: no trace of mind, I own,
Is in the beast: I see but drill, alone.

WAGNER

The dog, when he's well educated,
Is by the wisest tolerated.
Yes, he deserves your favor thoroughly,--
The clever scholar of the students, he!

(_They pass in the city-gate_.)

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




III


THE STUDY

FAUST

(_Entering, with the poodle_.)

     Behind me, field and meadow sleeping,
     I leave in deep, prophetic night,
     Within whose dread and holy keeping
     The better soul awakes to light.
     The wild desires no longer win us,
     The deeds of passion cease to chain;
     The love of Man revives within us,
     The love of God revives again.

Be still, thou poodle; make not such racket and riot!
Why at the threshold wilt snuffing be?
Behind the stove repose thee in quiet!
My softest cushion I give to thee.
As thou, up yonder, with running and leaping
Amused us hast, on the mountain's crest,

So now I take thee into my keeping,
A welcome, but also a silent, guest.

     Ah, when, within our narrow chamber
     The lamp with friendly lustre glows,
     Flames in the breast each faded ember,
     And in the heart, itself that knows.
     Then Hope again lends sweet assistance,
     And Reason then resumes her speech:
     One yearns, the rivers of existence,
     The very founts of Life, to reach.

Snarl not, poodle! To the sound that rises,
The sacred tones that my soul embrace,
This bestial noise is out of place.
We are used to see, that Man despises
What he never comprehends,
And the Good and the Beautiful vilipends,
Finding them often hard to measure:
Will the dog, like man, snarl _his_ displeasure?

But ah! I feel, though will thereto be stronger,
Contentment flows from out my breast no longer.
Why must the stream so soon run dry and fail us,
And burning thirst again assail us?
Therein I've borne so much probation!
And yet, this want may be supplied us;
We call the Supernatural to guide us;
We pine and thirst for Revelation,
Which nowhere worthier is, more nobly sent,
Than here, in our New Testament.
I feel impelled, its meaning to determine,--
With honest purpose, once for all,
The hallowed Original
To change to my beloved German.

(_He opens a volume, and commences_.)
'Tis written: "In the Beginning was the _Word_."
Here am I balked: who, now can help afford?
The _Word?_--impossible so high to rate it;
And otherwise must I translate it.
If by the Spirit I am truly taught.
Then thus: "In the Beginning was the _Thought_"
This first line let me weigh completely,
Lest my impatient pen proceed too fleetly.
Is it the _Thought_ which works, creates, indeed?
"In the Beginning was the _Power,"_ I read.
Yet, as I write, a warning is suggested,
That I the sense may not have fairly tested.
The Spirit aids me: now I see the light!
"In the Beginning was the _Act_," I write.

If I must share my chamber with thee,
Poodle, stop that howling, prithee!
Cease to bark and bellow!
Such a noisy, disturbing fellow
I'll no longer suffer near me.
One of us, dost hear me!
Must leave, I fear me.
No longer guest-right I bestow;
The door is open, art free to go.
But what do I see in the creature?
Is that in the course of nature?
Is't actual fact? or Fancy's shows?
How long and broad my poodle grows!
He rises mightily:
A canine form that cannot be!
What a spectre I've harbored thus!
He resembles a hippopotamus,
With fiery eyes, teeth terrible to see:
O, now am I sure of thee!
For all of thy half-hellish brood
The Key of Solomon is good.

SPIRITS (_in the corridor_)

     Some one, within, is caught!
     Stay without, follow him not!
     Like the fox in a snare,
     Quakes the old hell-lynx there.
     Take heed--look about!
     Back and forth hover,
     Under and over,
     And he'll work himself out.
     If your aid avail him,
     Let it not fail him;
     For he, without measure,
     Has wrought for our pleasure.

FAUST

First, to encounter the beast,
The Words of the Four be addressed:
    Salamander, shine glorious!
    Wave, Undine, as bidden!
    Sylph, be thou hidden!
    Gnome, be laborious!

Who knows not their sense
(These elements),--
Their properties
And power not sees,--
No mastery he inherits
Over the Spirits.

     Vanish in flaming ether,
     Salamander!
     Flow foamingly together,
     Undine!
     Shine in meteor-sheen,
     Sylph!
     Bring help to hearth and shelf.
     Incubus! Incubus!
     Step forward, and finish thus!

Of the Four, no feature
Lurks in the creature.
Quiet he lies, and grins disdain:
Not yet, it seems, have I given him pain.
Now, to undisguise thee,
Hear me exorcise thee!
Art thou, my gay one,
Hell's fugitive stray-one?
The sign witness now,
Before which they bow,
The cohorts of Hell!

With hair all bristling, it begins to swell.

     Base Being, hearest thou?
     Knowest and fearest thou
     The One, unoriginate,
     Named inexpressibly,
     Through all Heaven impermeate,
     Pierced irredressibly!

Behind the stove still banned,
See it, an elephant, expand!
It fills the space entire,
Mist-like melting, ever faster.
'Tis enough: ascend no higher,--
Lay thyself at the feet of the Master!
Thou seest, not vain the threats I bring thee:
With holy fire I'll scorch and sting thee!
Wait not to know
The threefold dazzling glow!
Wait not to know
The strongest art within my hands!

MEPHISTOPHELES

(_while the vapor is dissipating, steps forth from behind the
stove, in the costume of a Travelling Scholar_.)
Why such a noise? What are my lord's commands?

FAUST

This was the poodle's real core,
A travelling scholar, then? The _casus_ is diverting.

MEPHISTOPHELES

The learned gentleman I bow before:
You've made me roundly sweat, that's certain!

FAUST

What is thy name?

MEPHISTOPHELES

A question small, it seems,
For one whose mind the Word so much despises;
Who, scorning all external gleams,
The depths of being only prizes.

FAUST

With all you gentlemen, the name's a test,
Whereby the nature usually is expressed.
Clearly the latter it implies
In names like Beelzebub, Destroyer, Father of Lies.
Who art thou, then?

MEPHISTOPHELES

Part of that Power, not understood,
Which always wills the Bad, and always works the Good.

FAUST

What hidden sense in this enigma lies?

MEPHISTOPHELES

I am the Spirit that Denies!
And justly so: for all things, from the Void
Called forth, deserve to be destroyed:
'Twere better, then, were naught created.
Thus, all which you as Sin have rated,--
Destruction,--aught with Evil blent,--
That is my proper element.

FAUST

Thou nam'st thyself a part, yet show'st complete to me?

MEPHISTOPHELES

The modest truth I speak to thee.
If Man, that microcosmic fool, can see
Himself a whole so frequently,
Part of the Part am I, once All, in primal Night,--
Part of the Darkness which brought forth the Light,
The haughty Light, which now disputes the space,
And claims of Mother Night her ancient place.
And yet, the struggle fails; since Light, howe'er it weaves,
Still, fettered, unto bodies cleaves:
It flows from bodies, bodies beautifies;
By bodies is its course impeded;
And so, but little time is needed,
I hope, ere, as the bodies die, it dies!

FAUST

I see the plan thou art pursuing:
Thou canst not compass general ruin,
And hast on smaller scale begun.

MEPHISTOPHELES

And truly 'tis not much, when all is done.
That which to Naught is in resistance set,--
The Something of this clumsy world,--has yet,
With all that I have undertaken,
Not been by me disturbed or shaken:
From earthquake, tempest, wave, volcano's brand,
Back into quiet settle sea and land!
And that damned stuff, the bestial, human brood,--
What use, in having that to play with?
How many have I made away with!
And ever circulates a newer, fresher blood.
It makes me furious, such things beholding:
From Water, Earth, and Air unfolding,
A thousand germs break forth and grow,
In dry, and wet, and warm, and chilly;
And had I not the Flame reserved, why, really,
There's nothing special of my own to show!

FAUST

So, to the actively eternal
Creative force, in cold disdain
You now oppose the fist infernal,
Whose wicked clench is all in vain!
Some other labor seek thou rather,
Queer Son of Chaos, to begin!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Well, we'll consider: thou canst gather
My views, when next I venture in.
Might I, perhaps, depart at present?

FAUST

Why thou shouldst ask, I don't perceive.
Though our acquaintance is so recent,
For further visits thou hast leave.
The window's here, the door is yonder;
A chimney, also, you behold.

MEPHISTOPHELES

I must confess that forth I may not wander,
My steps by one slight obstacle controlled,--
The wizard's-foot, that on your threshold made is.

FAUST

The pentagram prohibits thee?
Why, tell me now, thou Son of Hades,
If that prevents, how cam'st thou in to me?
Could such a spirit be so cheated?

MEPHISTOPHELES

Inspect the thing: the drawing's not completed.
The outer angle, you may see,
Is open left--the lines don't fit it.

FAUST

Well,--Chance, this time, has fairly hit it!
And thus, thou'rt prisoner to me?
It seems the business has succeeded.

MEPHISTOPHELES

The poodle naught remarked, as after thee he speeded;
But other aspects now obtain:
The Devil can't get out again.

FAUST

Try, then, the open window-pane!

MEPHISTOPHELES

For Devils and for spectres this is law:
Where they have entered in, there also they withdraw.
The first is free to us; we're governed by the second.

FAUST

In Hell itself, then, laws are reckoned?
That's well! So might a compact be
Made with you gentlemen--and binding,--surely?

MEPHISTOPHELES

All that is promised shall delight thee purely;
No skinflint bargain shalt thou see.
But this is not of swift conclusion;
We'll talk about the matter soon.
And now, I do entreat this boon--
Leave to withdraw from my intrusion.

FAUST

One moment more I ask thee to remain,
Some pleasant news, at least, to tell me.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Release me, now! I soon shall come again;
Then thou, at will, mayst question and compel me.

FAUST

I have not snares around thee cast;
Thyself hast led thyself into the meshes.
Who traps the Devil, hold him fast!
Not soon a second time he'll catch a prey so precious.

MEPHISTOPHELES

An't please thee, also I'm content to stay,
And serve thee in a social station;
But stipulating, that I may
With arts of mine afford thee recreation.

FAUST

Thereto I willingly agree,
If the diversion pleasant be.

MEPHISTOPHELES

My friend, thou'lt win, past all pretences,
More in this hour to soothe thy senses,
Than in the year's monotony.
That which the dainty spirits sing thee,
The lovely pictures they shall bring thee,
Are more than magic's empty show.
Thy scent will be to bliss invited;
Thy palate then with taste delighted,
Thy nerves of touch ecstatic glow!
All unprepared, the charm I spin:
We're here together, so begin!

SPIRITS

     Vanish, ye darking
     Arches above him!
     Loveliest weather,
     Born of blue ether,
     Break from the sky!
     O that the darkling
     Clouds had departed!
     Starlight is sparkling,
     Tranquiller-hearted
     Suns are on high.
     Heaven's own children
     In beauty bewildering,
     Waveringly bending,
     Pass as they hover;
     Longing unending
     Follows them over.
     They, with their glowing
     Garments, out-flowing,
     Cover, in going,
     Landscape and bower,
     Where, in seclusion,
     Lovers are plighted,
     Lost in illusion.
     Bower on bower!
     Tendrils unblighted!
     Lo! in a shower
     Grapes that o'ercluster
     Gush into must, or
     Flow into rivers
     Of foaming and flashing
     Wine, that is dashing
     Gems, as it boundeth
     Down the high places,
     And spreading, surroundeth
     With crystalline spaces,
     In happy embraces,
     Blossoming forelands,
     Emerald shore-lands!
     And the winged races
     Drink, and fly onward--
     Fly ever sunward
     To the enticing
     Islands, that flatter,
     Dipping and rising
     Light on the water!
     Hark, the inspiring
     Sound of their quiring!
     See, the entrancing
     Whirl of their dancing!
     All in the air are
     Freer and fairer.
     Some of them scaling
     Boldly the highlands,
     Others are sailing,
     Circling the islands;
     Others are flying;
     Life-ward all hieing,--
     All for the distant
     Star of existent
     Rapture and Love!

MEPHISTOPHELES

He sleeps! Enough, ye fays! your airy number
Have sung him truly into slumber:
For this performance I your debtor prove.--
Not yet art thou the man, to catch the Fiend and hold him!--
With fairest images of dreams infold him,
Plunge him in seas of sweet untruth!
Yet, for the threshold's magic which controlled him,
The Devil needs a rat's quick tooth.
I use no lengthened invocation:
Here rustles one that soon will work my liberation.

The lord of rats and eke of mice,
Of flies and bed-bugs, frogs and lice,
Summons thee hither to the door-sill,
To gnaw it where, with just a morsel
Of oil, he paints the spot for thee:--
There com'st thou, hopping on to me!
To work, at once! The point which made me craven
Is forward, on the ledge, engraven.
Another bite makes free the door:
So, dream thy dreams, O Faust, until we meet once more!

FAUST _(awaking)_

Am I again so foully cheated?
Remains there naught of lofty spirit-sway,
But that a dream the Devil counterfeited,
And that a poodle ran away?

[Illustration]




IV


THE STUDY

FAUST MEPHISTOPHELES

FAUST

A knock? Come in! Again my quiet broken?

MEPHISTOPHELES

'Tis I!

FAUST

         Come in!

MEPHISTOPHELES

                  Thrice must the words be spoken.

FAUST

Come in, then!


MEPHISTOPHELES

                   Thus thou pleasest me.
I hope we'll suit each other well;
For now, thy vapors to dispel,
I come, a squire of high degree,
In scarlet coat, with golden trimming,
A cloak in silken lustre swimming,
A tall cock's-feather in my hat,
A long, sharp sword for show or quarrel,--
And I advise thee, brief and flat,
To don the self-same gay apparel,
That, from this den released, and free,
Life be at last revealed to thee!

FAUST

This life of earth, whatever my attire,
Would pain me in its wonted fashion.
Too old am I to play with passion;
Too young, to be without desire.
What from the world have I to gain?
Thou shalt abstain--renounce--refrain!
Such is the everlasting song
That in the ears of all men rings,--
That unrelieved, our whole life long,
Each hour, in passing, hoarsely sings.
In very terror I at morn awake,
Upon the verge of bitter weeping,
To see the day of disappointment break,
To no one hope of mine--not one--its promise keeping:--
That even each joy's presentiment
With wilful cavil would diminish,
With grinning masks of life prevent
My mind its fairest work to finish!
Then, too, when night descends, how anxiously
Upon my couch of sleep I lay me:
There, also, comes no rest to me,
But some wild dream is sent to fray me.
The God that in my breast is owned
Can deeply stir the inner sources;
The God, above my powers enthroned,
He cannot change external forces.
So, by the burden of my days oppressed,
Death is desired, and Life a thing unblest!

MEPHISTOPHELES

And yet is never Death a wholly welcome guest.

FAUST

O fortunate, for whom, when victory glances,
The bloody laurels on the brow he bindeth!
Whom, after rapid, maddening dances,
In clasping maiden-arms he findeth!
O would that I, before that spirit-power,
Ravished and rapt from life, had sunken!

MEPHISTOPHELES

And yet, by some one, in that nightly hour,
A certain liquid was not drunken.

FAUST

Eavesdropping, ha! thy pleasure seems to be.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Omniscient am I not; yet much is known to me.

FAUST

Though some familiar tone, retrieving
My thoughts from torment, led me on,
And sweet, clear echoes came, deceiving
A faith bequeathed from Childhood's dawn,
Yet now I curse whate'er entices
And snares the soul with visions vain;
With dazzling cheats and dear devices
Confines it in this cave of pain!
Cursed be, at once, the high ambition
Wherewith the mind itself deludes!
Cursed be the glare of apparition
That on the finer sense intrudes!
Cursed be the lying dream's impression
Of name, and fame, and laurelled brow!
Cursed, all that flatters as possession,
As wife and child, as knave and plow!
Cursed Mammon be, when he with treasures
To restless action spurs our fate!
Cursed when, for soft, indulgent leisures,
He lays for us the pillows straight!
Cursed be the vine's transcendent nectar,--
The highest favor Love lets fall!
Cursed, also, Hope!--cursed Faith, the spectre!
And cursed be Patience most of all!

CHORUS OF SPIRITS (_invisible_)

     Woe! woe!
     Thou hast it destroyed,
     The beautiful world,
     With powerful fist:
     In ruin 'tis hurled,
     By the blow of a demigod shattered!
     The scattered
     Fragments into the Void we carry,
     Deploring
     The beauty perished beyond restoring.
     Mightier
     For the children of men,
     Brightlier
     Build it again,
     In thine own bosom build it anew!
     Bid the new career
     Commence,
     With clearer sense,
     And the new songs of cheer
     Be sung thereto!

MEPHISTOPHELES

These are the small dependants
Who give me attendance.
Hear them, to deeds and passion
Counsel in shrewd old-fashion!
Into the world of strife,
Out of this lonely life
That of senses and sap has betrayed thee,
They would persuade thee.
This nursing of the pain forego thee,
That, like a vulture, feeds upon thy breast!
The worst society thou find'st will show thee
Thou art a man among the rest.
But 'tis not meant to thrust
Thee into the mob thou hatest!
I am not one of the greatest,
Yet, wilt thou to me entrust
Thy steps through life, I'll guide thee,--
Will willingly walk beside thee,--
Will serve thee at once and forever
With best endeavor,
And, if thou art satisfied,
Will as servant, slave, with thee abide.

FAUST

And what shall be my counter-service therefor?

MEPHISTOPHELES

The time is long: thou need'st not now insist.

FAUST

No--no! The Devil is an egotist,
And is not apt, without a why or wherefore,
"For God's sake," others to assist.
Speak thy conditions plain and clear!
With such a servant danger comes, I fear.

MEPHISTOPHELES

_Here_, an unwearied slave, I'll wear thy tether,
And to thine every nod obedient be:
When _There_ again we come together,
Then shalt thou do the same for me.

FAUST

The _There_ my scruples naught increases.
When thou hast dashed this world to pieces,
The other, then, its place may fill.
Here, on this earth, my pleasures have their sources;
Yon sun beholds my sorrows in his courses;
And when from these my life itself divorces,
Let happen all that can or will!
I'll hear no more: 'tis vain to ponder
If there we cherish love or hate,
Or, in the spheres we dream of yonder,
A High and Low our souls await.

MEPHISTOPHELES

In this sense, even, canst thou venture.
Come, bind thyself by prompt indenture,
And thou mine arts with joy shalt see:
What no man ever saw, I'll give to thee.

FAUST

Canst thou, poor Devil, give me whatsoever?
When was a human soul, in its supreme endeavor,
E'er understood by such as thou?
Yet, hast thou food which never satiates, now,--
The restless, ruddy gold hast thou,
That runs, quicksilver-like, one's fingers through,--
A game whose winnings no man ever knew,--
A maid that, even from my breast,
Beckons my neighbor with her wanton glances,
And Honor's godlike zest,
The meteor that a moment dances,--
Show me the fruits that, ere they're gathered, rot,
And trees that daily with new leafage clothe them!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Such a demand alarms me not:
Such treasures have I, and can show them.
But still the time may reach us, good my friend.
When peace we crave and more luxurious diet.

FAUST

When on an idler's bed I stretch myself in quiet.
There let, at once, my record end!
Canst thou with lying flattery rule me,
Until, self-pleased, myself I see,--
Canst thou with rich enjoyment fool me,
Let that day be the last for me!
The bet I offer.

MEPHISTOPHELES
                   Done!

FAUST
                         And heartily!
When thus I hail the Moment flying:
"Ah, still delay--thou art so fair!"
Then bind me in thy bonds undying,
My final ruin then declare!
Then let the death-bell chime the token.
Then art thou from thy service free!
The clock may stop, the hand be broken,
Then Time be finished unto me!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Consider well: my memory good is rated.

FAUST

Thou hast a perfect right thereto.
My powers I have not rashly estimated:
A slave am I, whate'er I do--
If thine, or whose? 'tis needless to debate it.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Then at the Doctors'-banquet I, to-day,
Will as a servant wait behind thee.
But one thing more! Beyond all risk to bind thee,
Give me a line or two, I pray.

FAUST

Demand'st thou, Pedant, too, a document?
Hast never known a man, nor proved his word's intent?
Is't not enough, that what I speak to-day
Shall stand, with all my future days agreeing?
In all its tides sweeps not the world away,
And shall a promise bind my being?
Yet this delusion in our hearts we bear:
Who would himself therefrom deliver?
Blest he, whose bosom Truth makes pure and fair!
No sacrifice shall he repent of ever.
Nathless a parchment, writ and stamped with care,
A spectre is, which all to shun endeavor.
The word, alas! dies even in the pen,
And wax and leather keep the lordship then.
What wilt from me, Base Spirit, say?--
Brass, marble, parchment, paper, clay?
The terms with graver, quill, or chisel, stated?
I freely leave the choice to thee.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Why heat thyself, thus instantly,
With eloquence exaggerated?
Each leaf for such a pact is good;
And to subscribe thy name thou'lt take a drop of blood.

FAUST

If thou therewith art fully satisfied,
So let us by the farce abide.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Blood is a juice of rarest quality.

FAUST

Fear not that I this pact shall seek to sever?
The promise that I make to thee
Is just the sum of my endeavor.
I have myself inflated all too high;
My proper place is thy estate:
The Mighty Spirit deigns me no reply,
And Nature shuts on me her gate.
The thread of Thought at last is broken,
And knowledge brings disgust unspoken.
Let us the sensual deeps explore,
To quench the fervors of glowing passion!
Let every marvel take form and fashion
Through the impervious veil it wore!
Plunge we in Time's tumultuous dance,
In the rush and roll of Circumstance!
Then may delight and distress,
And worry and success,
Alternately follow, as best they can:
Restless activity proves the man!

MEPHISTOPHELES

For you no bound, no term is set.
Whether you everywhere be trying,
Or snatch a rapid bliss in flying,
May it agree with you, what you get!
Only fall to, and show no timid balking.

FAUST

But thou hast heard, 'tis not of joy we're talking.
I take the wildering whirl, enjoyment's keenest pain,
Enamored hate, exhilarant disdain.
My bosom, of its thirst for knowledge sated,
Shall not, henceforth, from any pang be wrested,
And all of life for all mankind created
Shall be within mine inmost being tested:
The highest, lowest forms my soul shall borrow,
Shall heap upon itself their bliss and sorrow,
And thus, my own sole self to all their selves expanded,
I too, at last, shall with them all be stranded!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Believe me, who for many a thousand year
The same tough meat have chewed and tested,
That from the cradle to the bier
No man the ancient leaven has digested!
Trust one of us, this Whole supernal
Is made but for a God's delight!
_He_ dwells in splendor single and eternal,
But _us_ he thrusts in darkness, out of sight,
And _you_ he dowers with Day and Night.

FAUST

Nay, but I will!

MEPHISTOPHELES

A good reply!
One only fear still needs repeating:
The art is long, the time is fleeting.
Then let thyself be taught, say I!
Go, league thyself with a poet,
Give the rein to his imagination,
Then wear the crown, and show it,
Of the qualities of his creation,--
The courage of the lion's breed,
The wild stag's speed,
The Italian's fiery blood,
The North's firm fortitude!
Let him find for thee the secret tether
That binds the Noble and Mean together.
And teach thy pulses of youth and pleasure
To love by rule, and hate by measure!
I'd like, myself, such a one to see:
Sir Microcosm his name should be.

FAUST

What am I, then, if 'tis denied my part
The crown of all humanity to win me,
Whereto yearns every sense within me?

MEPHISTOPHELES

Why, on the whole, thou'rt--what thou art.
Set wigs of million curls upon thy head, to raise thee,
Wear shoes an ell in height,--the truth betrays thee,
And thou remainest--what thou art.

FAUST

I feel, indeed, that I have made the treasure
Of human thought and knowledge mine, in vain;
And if I now sit down in restful leisure,
No fount of newer strength is in my brain:
I am no hair's-breadth more in height,
Nor nearer, to the Infinite,

MEPHISTOPHELES

Good Sir, you see the facts precisely
As they are seen by each and all.
We must arrange them now, more wisely,
Before the joys of life shall pall.
Why, Zounds! Both hands and feet are, truly--
And head and virile forces--thine:
Yet all that I indulge in newly,
Is't thence less wholly mine?
If I've six stallions in my stall,
Are not their forces also lent me?
I speed along, completest man of all,
As though my legs were four-and-twenty.
Take hold, then! let reflection rest,
And plunge into the world with zest!
I say to thee, a speculative wight
Is like a beast on moorlands lean,
That round and round some fiend misleads to evil plight,
While all about lie pastures fresh and green.

FAUST

Then how shall we begin?

MEPHISTOPHELES

We'll try a wider sphere.
What place of martyrdom is here!
Is't life, I ask, is't even prudence,
To bore thyself and bore the students?
Let Neighbor Paunch to that attend!
Why plague thyself with threshing straw forever?
The best thou learnest, in the end
Thou dar'st not tell the youngsters--never!
I hear one's footsteps, hither steering.

FAUST
To see him now I have no heart.

MEPHISTOPHELES

So long the poor boy waits a hearing,
He must not unconsoled depart.
Thy cap and mantle straightway lend me!
I'll play the comedy with art.

(_He disguises himself_.)

My wits, be certain, will befriend me.
But fifteen minutes' time is all I need;
For our fine trip, meanwhile, prepare thyself with speed!

[_Exit_ FAUST.

MEPHISTOPHELES

(_In_ FAUST'S _long mantle_.)

Reason and Knowledge only thou despise,
The highest strength in man that lies!
Let but the Lying Spirit bind thee
With magic works and shows that blind thee,
And I shall have thee fast and sure!--
Fate such a bold, untrammelled spirit gave him,
As forwards, onwards, ever must endure;
Whose over-hasty impulse drave him
Past earthly joys he might secure.
Dragged through the wildest life, will I enslave him,
Through flat and stale indifference;
With struggling, chilling, checking, so deprave him
That, to his hot, insatiate sense,
The dream of drink shall mock, but never lave him:
Refreshment shall his lips in vain implore--
Had he not made himself the Devil's, naught could save
him,
Still were he lost forevermore!

(_A_ STUDENT _enters_.)

STUDENT

A short time, only, am I here,
And come, devoted and sincere,
To greet and know the man of fame,
Whom men to me with reverence name.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Your courtesy doth flatter me:
You see a man, as others be.
Have you, perchance, elsewhere begun?

STUDENT

Receive me now, I pray, as one
Who comes to you with courage good,
Somewhat of cash, and healthy blood:
My mother was hardly willing to let me;
But knowledge worth having I fain would get me.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Then you have reached the right place now.

STUDENT

I'd like to leave it, I must avow;
I find these walls, these vaulted spaces
Are anything but pleasant places.
Tis all so cramped and close and mean;
One sees no tree, no glimpse of green,
And when the lecture-halls receive me,
Seeing, hearing, and thinking leave me.

MEPHISTOPHELES

All that depends on habitude.
So from its mother's breasts a child
At first, reluctant, takes its food,
But soon to seek them is beguiled.
Thus, at the breasts of Wisdom clinging,
Thou'lt find each day a greater rapture bringing.

STUDENT

I'll hang thereon with joy, and freely drain them;
But tell me, pray, the proper means to gain them.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Explain, before you further speak,
The special faculty you seek.

STUDENT

I crave the highest erudition;
And fain would make my acquisition
All that there is in Earth and Heaven,
In Nature and in Science too.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Here is the genuine path for you;
Yet strict attention must be given.

STUDENT

Body and soul thereon I'll wreak;
Yet, truly, I've some inclination
On summer holidays to seek
A little freedom and recreation.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Use well your time! It flies so swiftly from us;
But time through order may be won, I promise.
So, Friend (my views to briefly sum),
First, the _collegium logicum_.
There will your mind be drilled and braced,
As if in Spanish boots 'twere laced,
And thus, to graver paces brought,
'Twill plod along the path of thought,
Instead of shooting here and there,
A will-o'-the-wisp in murky air.
Days will be spent to bid you know,
What once you did at a single blow,
Like eating and drinking, free and strong,--
That one, two, three! thereto belong.
Truly the fabric of mental fleece
Resembles a weaver's masterpiece,
Where a thousand threads one treadle throws,
Where fly the shuttles hither and thither.
Unseen the threads are knit together.
And an infinite combination grows.
Then, the philosopher steps in
And shows, no otherwise it could have been:
The first was so, the second so,
Therefore the third and fourth are so;
Were not the first and second, then
The third and fourth had never been.
The scholars are everywhere believers,
But never succeed in being weavers.
He who would study organic existence,
First drives out the soul with rigid persistence;
Then the parts in his hand he may hold and class,
But the spiritual link is lost, alas!
_Encheiresin natures_, this Chemistry names,
Nor knows how herself she banters and blames!

STUDENT

I cannot understand you quite.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Your mind will shortly be set aright,
When you have learned, all things reducing,
To classify them for your using.

STUDENT

I feel as stupid, from all you've said,
As if a mill-wheel whirled in my head!

MEPHISTOPHELES

And after--first and foremost duty--Of
Metaphysics learn the use and beauty!
See that you most profoundly gain
What does not suit the human brain!
A splendid word to serve, you'll find
For what goes in--or won't go in--your mind.
But first, at least this half a year,
To order rigidly adhere;
Five hours a day, you understand,
And when the clock strikes, be on hand!
Prepare beforehand for your part
With paragraphs all got by heart,
So you can better watch, and look
That naught is said but what is in the book:
Yet in thy writing as unwearied be,
As did the Holy Ghost dictate to thee!

STUDENT

No need to tell me twice to do it!
I think, how useful 'tis to write;
For what one has, in black and white,
One carries home and then goes through it.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Yet choose thyself a faculty!

STUDENT

I cannot reconcile myself to Jurisprudence.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Nor can I therefore greatly blame you students:
I know what science this has come to be.
All rights and laws are still transmitted
Like an eternal sickness of the race,--
From generation unto generation fitted,
And shifted round from place to place.
Reason becomes a sham, Beneficence a worry:
Thou art a grandchild, therefore woe to thee!
The right born with us, ours in verity,
This to consider, there's, alas! no hurry.

STUDENT

My own disgust is strengthened by your speech:
O lucky he, whom you shall teach!
I've almost for Theology decided.

MEPHISTOPHELES

I should not wish to see you here misguided:
For, as regards this science, let me hint
'Tis very hard to shun the false direction;
There's so much secret poison lurking in 't,
So like the medicine, it baffles your detection.
Hear, therefore, one alone, for that is best, in sooth,
And simply take your master's words for truth.
On _words_ let your attention centre!
Then through the safest gate you'll enter
The temple-halls of Certainty.

STUDENT

Yet in the word must some idea be.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Of course! But only shun too over-sharp a tension,
For just where fails the comprehension,
A word steps promptly in as deputy.
With words 'tis excellent disputing;
Systems to words 'tis easy suiting;
On words 'tis excellent believing;
No word can ever lose a jot from thieving.

STUDENT

Pardon! With many questions I detain you.
Yet must I trouble you again.
Of Medicine I still would fain
Hear one strong word that might explain you.
Three years is but a little space.
And, God! who can the field embrace?
If one some index could be shown,
'Twere easier groping forward, truly.

MEPHISTOPHELES (_aside_)

I'm tired enough of this dry tone,--
Must play the Devil again, and fully.

(_Aloud_)

To grasp the spirit of Medicine is easy:
Learn of the great and little world your fill,
To let it go at last, so please ye,
Just as God will!
In vain that through the realms of science you may drift;
Each one learns only--just what learn he can:
Yet he who grasps the Moment's gift,
He is the proper man.
Well-made you are, 'tis not to be denied,
The rest a bold address will win you;
If you but in yourself confide,
At once confide all others in you.
To lead the women, learn the special feeling!
Their everlasting aches and groans,
In thousand tones,
Have all one source, one mode of healing;
And if your acts are half discreet,
You'll always have them at your feet.
A title first must draw and interest them,
And show that yours all other arts exceeds;
Then, as a greeting, you are free to touch and test them,
While, thus to do, for years another pleads.
You press and count the pulse's dances,
And then, with burning sidelong glances,
You clasp the swelling hips, to see
If tightly laced her corsets be.

STUDENT

That's better, now! The How and Where, one sees.

MEPHISTOPHELES

My worthy friend, gray are all theories,
And green alone Life's golden tree.

STUDENT

I swear to you, 'tis like a dream to me.
Might I again presume, with trust unbounded,
To hear your wisdom thoroughly expounded?

MEPHISTOPHELES

Most willingly, to what extent I may.

STUDENT

I cannot really go away:
Allow me that my album first I reach you,--
Grant me this favor, I beseech you!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Assuredly.

(_He writes, and returns the book_.)

STUDENT (_reads_)

_Eritis sicut Deus, scientes bonum et malum_.
(_Closes the book with reverence, and withdraws_)

MEPHISTOPHELES

Follow the ancient text, and the snake thou wast ordered to trample!
With all thy likeness to God, thou'lt yet be a sorry example!

(FAUST _enters_.)

FAUST

Now, whither shall we go?

MEPHISTOPHELES

As best it pleases thee.
The little world, and then the great, we'll see.
With what delight, what profit winning,
Shalt thou sponge through the term beginning!

FAUST

Yet with the flowing beard I wear,
Both ease and grace will fail me there.
The attempt, indeed, were a futile strife;
I never could learn the ways of life.
I feel so small before others, and thence
Should always find embarrassments.

MEPHISTOPHELES

My friend, thou soon shalt lose all such misgiving:
Be thou but self-possessed, thou hast the art of living!

FAUST

How shall we leave the house, and start?
Where hast thou servant, coach and horses?

MEPHISTOPHELES

We'll spread this cloak with proper art,
Then through the air direct our courses.
But only, on so bold a flight,
Be sure to have thy luggage light.
A little burning air, which I shall soon prepare us,
Above the earth will nimbly bear us,
And, if we're light, we'll travel swift and clear:
I gratulate thee on thy new career!

[Illustration]




V


AUERBACH'S CELLAR IN LEIPZIG
CAROUSAL OF JOLLY COMPANIONS

FROSCH

Is no one laughing? no one drinking?
I'll teach you how to grin, I'm thinking.
To-day you're like wet straw, so tame;
And usually you're all aflame.

BRANDER

Now that's your fault; from you we nothing see,
No beastliness and no stupidity.

FROSCH

(_Pours a glass of wine over_ BRANDER'S _head_.)
There's both together!

BRANDER

Twice a swine!

FROSCH

You wanted them: I've given you mine.

SIEBEL

Turn out who quarrels--out the door!
With open throat sing chorus, drink and roar!
Up! holla! ho!

ALTMAYER

Woe's me, the fearful bellow!
Bring cotton, quick! He's split my ears, that fellow.

SIEBEL

When the vault echoes to the song,
One first perceives the bass is deep and strong.

FROSCH

Well said! and out with him that takes the least offence!
_Ah, tara, lara da_!

ALTMAYER

_Ah, tara, lara, da_!

FROSCH

The throats are tuned, commence!
(_Sings_.)
_The dear old holy Roman realm,
How does it hold together_?

BRANDER

A nasty song! Fie! a political song--
A most offensive song! Thank God, each morning, therefore,
That you have not the Roman realm to care for!
At least, I hold it so much gain for me,
That I nor Chancellor nor Kaiser be.
Yet also we must have a ruling head, I hope,
And so we'll choose ourselves a Pope.
You know the quality that can
Decide the choice, and elevate the man.

FROSCH (_sings_)

     _Soar up, soar up, Dame Nightingale!
     Ten thousand times my sweetheart hail!_

SIEBEL

No, greet my sweetheart not! I tell you, I'll resent it.

FROSCH

My sweetheart greet and kiss! I dare you to prevent it!

            (_Sings_.)

     _Draw the latch! the darkness makes:
     Draw the latch! the lover wakes.
     Shut the latch! the morning breaks_.

SIEBEL

Yes, sing away, sing on, and praise, and brag of her!
I'll wait my proper time for laughter:
Me by the nose she led, and now she'll lead you after.
Her paramour should be an ugly gnome,
Where four roads cross, in wanton play to meet her:
An old he-goat, from Blocksberg coming home,
Should his good-night in lustful gallop bleat her!
A fellow made of genuine flesh and blood
Is for the wench a deal too good.
Greet her? Not I: unless, when meeting,
To smash her windows be a greeting!

BRANDER (_pounding on the table_)

Attention! Hearken now to me!
Confess, Sirs, I know how to live.
Enamored persons here have we,
And I, as suits their quality,
Must something fresh for their advantage give.
Take heed! 'Tis of the latest cut, my strain,
And all strike in at each refrain!

     (_He sings_.)

     There was a rat in the cellar-nest,
     Whom fat and butter made smoother:
     He had a paunch beneath his vest
     Like that of Doctor Luther.
     The cook laid poison cunningly,
     And then as sore oppressed was he
     As if he had love in his bosom.

     CHORUS (_shouting_)

     As if he had love in his bosom!

     BRANDER

     He ran around, he ran about,
     His thirst in puddles laving;
     He gnawed and scratched the house throughout.
     But nothing cured his raving.
     He whirled and jumped, with torment mad,
     And soon enough the poor beast had,
     As if he had love in his bosom.

     CHORUS

     As if he had love in his bosom!

     BRANDER

     And driven at last, in open day,
     He ran into the kitchen,
     Fell on the hearth, and squirming lay,
     In the last convulsion twitching.
     Then laughed the murderess in her glee:
     "Ha! ha! he's at his last gasp," said she,
     "As if he had love in his bosom!"

CHORUS

     As if he had love in his bosom!

SIEBEL

How the dull fools enjoy the matter!
To me it is a proper art
Poison for such poor rats to scatter.

BRANDER

Perhaps you'll warmly take their part?

ALTMAYER

The bald-pate pot-belly I have noted:
Misfortune tames him by degrees;
For in the rat by poison bloated
His own most natural form he sees.

FAUST AND MEPHISTOPHELES

MEPHISTOPHELES

Before all else, I bring thee hither
Where boon companions meet together,
To let thee see how smooth life runs away.
Here, for the folk, each day's a holiday:
With little wit, and ease to suit them,
They whirl in narrow, circling trails,
Like kittens playing with their tails?
And if no headache persecute them,
So long the host may credit give,
They merrily and careless live.

BRANDER

The fact is easy to unravel,
Their air's so odd, they've just returned from travel:
A single hour they've not been here.

FROSCH

You've verily hit the truth! Leipzig to me is dear:
Paris in miniature, how it refines its people!

SIEBEL

Who are the strangers, should you guess?

FROSCH

Let me alone! I'll set them first to drinking,
And then, as one a child's tooth draws, with cleverness,
I'll worm their secret out, I'm thinking.
They're of a noble house, that's very clear:
Haughty and discontented they appear.

BRANDER

They're mountebanks, upon a revel.

ALTMAYER

Perhaps.

FROSCH

Look out, I'll smoke them now!

MEPHISTOPHELES (_to_ FAUST)

Not if he had them by the neck, I vow,
Would e'er these people scent the Devil!

FAUST
Fair greeting, gentlemen!

SIEBEL

Our thanks: we give the same.
(_Murmurs, inspecting_ MEPHISTOPHELES _from the side_.)
In one foot is the fellow lame?

MEPHISTOPHELES

Is it permitted that we share your leisure?
In place of cheering drink, which one seeks vainly here,
Your company shall give us pleasure.

ALTMAYER

A most fastidious person you appear.


FROSCH

No doubt 'twas late when you from Rippach started?
And supping there with Hans occasioned your delay?

MEPHISTOPHELES

We passed, without a call, to-day.
At our last interview, before we parted
Much of his cousins did he speak, entreating
That we should give to each his kindly greeting.

(_He bows to_ FROSCH.)

ALTMAYER (_aside_)

You have it now! he understands.

SIEBEL

A knave sharp-set!

FROSCH

Just wait awhile: I'll have him yet.

MEPHISTOPHELES

If I am right, we heard the sound
Of well-trained voices, singing chorus;
And truly, song must here rebound
Superbly from the arches o'er us.

FROSCH

Are you, perhaps, a virtuoso?

MEPHISTOPHELES

O no! my wish is great, my power is only so-so.

ALTMAYER

Give us a song!

MEPHISTOPHELES

If you desire, a number.

SIEBEL

So that it be a bran-new strain!

MEPHISTOPHELES

We've just retraced our way from. Spain,
The lovely land of wine, and song, and slumber.

(_Sings_.)

There was a king once reigning,
Who had a big black flea--

FROSCH

Hear, hear! A flea! D'ye rightly take the jest?
I call a flea a tidy guest.

MEPHISTOPHELES (_sings_)

     There was a king once reigning,
     Who had a big black flea,
     And loved him past explaining,
     As his own son were he.
     He called his man of stitches;
     The tailor came straightway:
     Here, measure the lad for breeches.
     And measure his coat, I say!

BRANDER

But mind, allow the tailor no caprices:
Enjoin upon him, as his head is dear,
To most exactly measure, sew and shear,
So that the breeches have no creases!

MEPHISTOPHELES

     In silk and velvet gleaming
     He now was wholly drest--
     Had a coat with ribbons streaming,
     A cross upon his breast.
     He had the first of stations,
     A minister's star and name;
     And also all his relations
     Great lords at court became.

     And the lords and ladies of honor
     Were plagued, awake and in bed;
     The queen she got them upon her,
     The maids were bitten and bled.
     And they did not dare to brush them,
     Or scratch them, day or night:
     We crack them and we crush them,
     At once, whene'er they bite.

     CHORUS (_shouting_)

     We crack them and we crush them,
     At once, whene'er they bite!

FROSCH
Bravo! bravo! that was fine.

SIEBEL

Every flea may it so befall!

BRANDER

Point your fingers and nip them all!

ALTMAYER

Hurrah for Freedom! Hurrah for wine!

MEPHISTOPHELES

I fain would drink with you, my glass to Freedom clinking,
If 'twere a better wine that here I see you drinking.

SIEBEL

Don't let us hear that speech again!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Did I not fear the landlord might complain,
I'd treat these worthy guests, with pleasure,
To some from out our cellar's treasure.

SIEBEL

Just treat, and let the landlord me arraign!

FROSCH

And if the wine be good, our praises shall be ample.
But do not give too very small a sample;
For, if its quality I decide,
With a good mouthful I must be supplied.

ALTMAYER (_aside_)

They're from the Rhine! I guessed as much, before.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Bring me a gimlet here!

BRANDER

What shall therewith be done?
You've not the casks already at the door?

ALTMAYER

Yonder, within the landlord's box of tools, there's one!

MEPHISTOPHELES (_takes the gimlet_)

(_To_ FROSCH.)

Now, give me of your taste some intimation.

FROSCH

How do you mean? Have you so many kinds?

MEPHISTOPHELES

The choice is free: make up your minds.

ALTMAYER (_to_ FROSCH)

Aha! you lick your chops, from sheer anticipation.

FROSCH

Good! if I have the choice, so let the wine be Rhenish!
Our Fatherland can best the sparkling cup replenish.

MEPHISTOPHELES

(_boring a hole in the edge of the table, at the place where_
FROSCH _sits_)

Get me a little wax, to make the stoppers, quick!

ALTMAYER

Ah! I perceive a juggler's trick.

MEPHISTOPHELES (_to_ BRANDER)

And you?

BRANDER

Champagne shall be my wine,
And let it sparkle fresh and fine!

MEPHISTOPHELES

(_bores: in the meantime one has made the wax stoppers, and
plugged the holes with them_.)

BRANDER

What's foreign one can't always keep quite clear of,
For good things, oft, are not so near;
A German can't endure the French to see or hear of,
Yet drinks their wines with hearty cheer.

SIEBEL

(_as_ MEPHISTOPHELES _approaches his seat_)
For me, I grant, sour wine is out of place;
Fill up my glass with sweetest, will you?

MEPHISTOPHELES (_boring_)

Tokay shall flow at once, to fill you!

ALTMAYER

No--look me, Sirs, straight in the face!
I see you have your fun at our expense.

MEPHISTOPHELES

O no! with gentlemen of such pretence,
That were to venture far, indeed.
Speak out, and make your choice with speed!
With what a vintage can I serve you?

ALTMAYER

With any--only satisfy our need.

(_After the holes have been bored and plugged_)

MEPHISTOPHELES (_with singular gestures_)

     Grapes the vine-stem bears,
     Horns the he-goat wears!
     The grapes are juicy, the vines are wood,
     The wooden table gives wine as good!
     Into the depths of Nature peer,--
     Only believe there's a miracle here!

Now draw the stoppers, and drink your fill!

ALL

(_as they draw out the stoppers, and the wine which has been
desired flows into the glass of each)_

O beautiful fountain, that flows at will!

MEPHISTOPHELES

But have a care that you nothing spill!

(_They drink repeatedly_.)

ALL (_sing_)

     As 'twere five hundred hogs, we feel
     So cannibalic jolly!

MEPHISTOPHELES

See, now, the race is happy--it is free!

FAUST

To leave them is my inclination.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Take notice, first! their bestiality
Will make a brilliant demonstration.

SIEBEL

(_drinks carelessly: the wine spills upon the earth, and turns to
flame_)

Help! Fire! Help! Hell-fire is sent!

MEPHISTOPHELES (_charming away the flame)_

Be quiet, friendly element!

(_To the revellers_)

A bit of purgatory 'twas for this time, merely.

SIEBEL

What mean you? Wait!--you'll pay for't dearly!
You'll know us, to your detriment.

FROSCH

Don't try that game a second time upon us!

ALTMAYER

I think we'd better send him packing quietly.

SIEBEL

What, Sir! you dare to make so free,
And play your hocus-pocus on us!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Be still, old wine-tub.

SIEBEL

Broomstick, you!
You face it out, impertinent and heady?

BRANDER

Just wait! a shower of blows is ready.

ALTMAYER

(_draws a stopper out of the table: fire flies in his face_.)
I burn! I burn!

SIEBEL

'Tis magic! Strike--
The knave is outlawed! Cut him as you like!
(_They draw their knives, and rush upon_ MEPHISTOPHELES.)

MEPHISTOPHELES (_with solemn gestures_)

     False word and form of air,
     Change place, and sense ensnare!
     Be here--and there!

(_They stand amazed and look at each other_.)

ALTMAYER

Where am I? What a lovely land!

FROSCH

Vines? Can I trust my eyes?

SIEBEL

And purple grapes at hand!

BRANDER

Here, over this green arbor bending,
See what a vine! what grapes depending!

(_He takes_ SIEBEL _by the nose: the others do the same reciprocally,
and raise their knives_.)

MEPHISTOPHELES (_as above_)

Loose, Error, from their eyes the band,
And how the Devil jests, be now enlightened!

(_He disappears with_ FAUST: _the revellers start and separate_.)

SIEBEL

What happened?

ALTMAYER

How?

FROSCH

Was that your nose I tightened?

BRANDER (_to_ SIEBEL)

And yours that still I have in hand?

ALTMAYER

It was a blow that went through every limb!
Give me a chair! I sink! my senses swim.

FROSCH

But what has happened, tell me now?

SIEBEL

Where is he? If I catch the scoundrel hiding,
He shall not leave alive, I vow.

ALTMAYER

I saw him with these eyes upon a wine-cask riding
Out of the cellar-door, just now.
Still in my feet the fright like lead is weighing.
(_He turns towards the table_.)
Why! If the fount of wine should still be playing?

SIEBEL

'Twas all deceit, and lying, false design!

FROSCH

And yet it seemed as I were drinking wine.

BRANDER

But with the grapes how was it, pray?

ALTMAYER

Shall one believe no miracles, just say!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




VI


WITCHES' KITCHEN

(_Upon a low hearth stands a great caldron, under which a fire
is burning. Various figures appear in the vapors which
rise from the caldron. An ape sits beside it, skims it, and
watches lest it boil over. The he-ape, with the young
ones, sits near and warms himself. Ceiling and walls are
covered with the most fantastic witch-implements_.)

FAUST MEPHISTOPHELES

FAUST

These crazy signs of witches' craft repel me!
I shall recover, dost thou tell me,
Through this insane, chaotic play?
From an old hag shall I demand assistance?
And will her foul mess take away
Full thirty years from my existence?
Woe's me, canst thou naught better find!
Another baffled hope must be lamented:
Has Nature, then, and has a noble mind
Not any potent balsam yet invented?

MEPHISTOPHELES

Once more, my friend, thou talkest sensibly.
There is, to make thee young, a simpler mode and apter;
But in another book 'tis writ for thee,
And is a most eccentric chapter.

FAUST

Yet will I know it.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Good! the method is revealed
Without or gold or magic or physician.
Betake thyself to yonder field,
There hoe and dig, as thy condition;
Restrain thyself, thy sense and will
Within a narrow sphere to flourish;
With unmixed food thy body nourish;
Live with the ox as ox, and think it not a theft
That thou manur'st the acre which thou reapest;--
That, trust me, is the best mode left,
Whereby for eighty years thy youth thou keepest!

FAUST

I am not used to that; I cannot stoop to try it--
To take the spade in hand, and ply it.
The narrow being suits me not at all.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Then to thine aid the witch must call.

FAUST

Wherefore the hag, and her alone?
Canst thou thyself not brew the potion?

MEPHISTOPHELES

That were a charming sport, I own:
I'd build a thousand bridges meanwhile, I've a notion.
Not Art and Science serve, alone;
Patience must in the work be shown.
Long is the calm brain active in creation;
Time, only, strengthens the fine fermentation.
And all, belonging thereunto,
Is rare and strange, howe'er you take it:
The Devil taught the thing, 'tis true,
And yet the Devil cannot make it.
(_Perceiving the Animals_)
See, what a delicate race they be!
That is the maid! the man is he!
(_To the Animals_)
It seems the mistress has gone away?

THE ANIMALS

Carousing, to-day!
Off and about,
By the chimney out!

MEPHISTOPHELES

What time takes she for dissipating?

THE ANIMALS

While we to warm our paws are waiting.

MEPHISTOPHELES (_to_ FAUST)

How findest thou the tender creatures?

FAUST

Absurder than I ever yet did see.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Why, just such talk as this, for me,
Is that which has the most attractive features!

(_To the Animals_)

But tell me now, ye cursed puppets,
Why do ye stir the porridge so?

THE ANIMALS

We're cooking watery soup for beggars.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Then a great public you can show.

THE HE-APE

(_comes up and fawns on_ MEPHISTOPHELES)

     O cast thou the dice!
     Make me rich in a trice,
     Let me win in good season!
     Things are badly controlled,
     And had I but gold,
     So had I my reason.

MEPHISTOPHELES

How would the ape be sure his luck enhances.
Could he but try the lottery's chances!

(_In the meantime the young apes have been playing with a
large ball, which they now roll forward_.)

THE HE-APE

     The world's the ball:
     Doth rise and fall,
     And roll incessant:
     Like glass doth ring,
     A hollow thing,--
     How soon will't spring,
     And drop, quiescent?
     Here bright it gleams,
     Here brighter seems:
     I live at present!
     Dear son, I say,
     Keep thou away!
     Thy doom is spoken!
     'Tis made of clay,
     And will be broken.

MEPHISTOPHELES

What means the sieve?

THE HE-APE (_taking it down_)

     Wert thou the thief,
     I'd know him and shame him.

(_He runs to the_ SHE-APE, _and lets her look through it_.)

     Look through the sieve!
     Know'st thou the thief,
     And darest not name him?

MEPHISTOPHELES (_approaching the fire)_

And what's this pot?

HE-APE AND SHE-APE

     The fool knows it not!
     He knows not the pot,
     He knows not the kettle!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Impertinent beast!

THE HE-APE

Take the brush here, at least,
And sit down on the settle!

(_He invites_ MEPHISTOPHELES _to sit down_.)

FAUST

(_who during all this time has been standing before a mirror,
now approaching and now retreating from it_)

What do I see? What heavenly form revealed
Shows through the glass from Magic's fair dominions!
O lend me, Love, the swiftest of thy pinions,
And bear me to her beauteous field!
Ah, if I leave this spot with fond designing,
If I attempt to venture near,
Dim, as through gathering mist, her charms appear!--
A woman's form, in beauty shining!
Can woman, then, so lovely be?
And must I find her body, there reclining,
Of all the heavens the bright epitome?
Can Earth with such a thing be mated?

MEPHISTOPHELES

Why, surely, if a God first plagues Himself six days,
Then, self-contented, _Bravo_! says,
Must something clever be created.
This time, thine eyes be satiate!
I'll yet detect thy sweetheart and ensnare her,
And blest is he, who has the lucky fate,
Some day, as bridegroom, home to bear her.

(FAUST _gazes continually in the mirror_. MEPHISTOPHELES,
_stretching himself out on the settle, and playing with the
brush, continues to speak_.)

So sit I, like the King upon his throne:
I hold the sceptre, here,--and lack the crown alone.

THE ANIMALS

(_who up to this time have been making all kinds of fantastic
movements together bring a crown to_ MEPHISTOPHELES
_with great noise_.)

     O be thou so good
     With sweat and with blood
     The crown to belime!

(_They handle the crown awkwardly and break it into two
pieces, with which they spring around_.)

     'Tis done, let it be!
     We speak and we see,
     We hear and we rhyme!

FAUST (_before the mirror_)

Woe's me! I fear to lose my wits.

MEPHISTOPHELES (_pointing to the Animals_)

My own head, now, is really nigh to sinking.

THE ANIMALS

     If lucky our hits,
     And everything fits,
     'Tis thoughts, and we're thinking!

FAUST (_as above_)

My bosom burns with that sweet vision;
Let us, with speed, away from here!

MEPHISTOPHELES (_in the same attitude_)

One must, at least, make this admission--
They're poets, genuine and sincere.

(_The caldron, which the_ SHE-APE _has up to this time neglected
to watch, begins to boil over: there ensues a great flame_,
_which blazes out the chimney. The_ WITCH _comes careering
down through the flame, with terrible cries_.)

THE WITCH

     Ow! ow! ow! ow!
     The damnéd beast--the curséd sow!
     To leave the kettle, and singe the Frau!
     Accurséd fere!

(_Perceiving_ FAUST _and_ MEPHISTOPHELES.)

     What is that here?
     Who are you here?
     What want you thus?
     Who sneaks to us?
     The fire-pain
     Burn bone and brain!

(_She plunges the skimming-ladle into the caldron, and scatters
flames towards_ FAUST, MEPHISTOPHELES, _and the Animals.
The Animals whimper_.)

MEPHISTOPHELES

(_reversing the brush, which he has been holding in his hand,
and striding among the jars and glasses_)

     In two! in two!
     There lies the brew!
     There lies the glass!
     The joke will pass,
     As time, foul ass!
     To the singing of thy crew.

(_As the_ WITCH _starts back, full of wrath and horror_)

Ha! know'st thou me? Abomination, thou!
Know'st thou, at last, thy Lord and Master?
What hinders me from smiting now
Thee and thy monkey-sprites with fell disaster?
Hast for the scarlet coat no reverence?
Dost recognize no more the tall cock's-feather?
Have I concealed this countenance?--
Must tell my name, old face of leather?

THE WITCH

O pardon, Sir, the rough salute!
Yet I perceive no cloven foot;
And both your ravens, where are _they_ now?

MEPHISTOPHELES

This time, I'll let thee 'scape the debt;
For since we two together met,
'Tis verily full many a day now.
Culture, which smooth the whole world licks,
Also unto the Devil sticks.
The days of that old Northern phantom now are over:
Where canst thou horns and tail and claws discover?
And, as regards the foot, which I can't spare, in truth,
'Twould only make the people shun me;
Therefore I've worn, like many a spindly youth,
False calves these many years upon me.

THE WITCH (_dancing_)

Reason and sense forsake my brain,
Since I behold Squire Satan here again!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Woman, from such a name refrain!

THE WITCH

Why so? What has it done to thee?

MEPHISTOPHELES

It's long been written in the Book of Fable;
Yet, therefore, no whit better men we see:
The Evil One has left, the evil ones are stable.
Sir Baron call me thou, then is the matter good;
A cavalier am I, like others in my bearing.
Thou hast no doubt about my noble blood:
See, here's the coat-of-arms that I am wearing!

(_He makes an indecent gesture_.)

THE WITCH (_laughs immoderately_)

Ha! ha! That's just your way, I know:
A rogue you are, and you were always so.

MEPHISTOPHELES (_to_ FAUST)

My friend, take proper heed, I pray!
To manage witches, this is just the way.

THE WITCH

Wherein, Sirs, can I be of use?

MEPHISTOPHELES

Give us a goblet of the well-known juice!
But, I must beg you, of the oldest brewage;
The years a double strength produce.

THE WITCH

With all my heart! Now, here's a bottle,
Wherefrom, sometimes, I wet my throttle,
Which, also, not the slightest, stinks;
And willingly a glass I'll fill him.

(_Whispering_)

Yet, if this man without due preparation drinks,
As well thou know'st, within an hour 'twill kill him.

MEPHISTOPHELES

He is a friend of mine, with whom it will agree,
And he deserves thy kitchen's best potation:
Come, draw thy circle, speak thine adjuration,
And fill thy goblet full and free!

THE WITCH

(_with fantastic gestures draws a circle and places mysterious
articles therein; meanwhile the glasses begin to ring, the
caldron to sound, and make a musical accompaniment.
Finally she brings a great book, and stations in the circle
the Apes, who are obliged to serve as reading-desk, and to
hold the torches. She then beckons_ FAUST _to approach_.)

FAUST (_to_ MEPHISTOPHELES)

Now, what shall come of this? the creatures antic,
The crazy stuff, the gestures frantic,--
All the repulsive cheats I view,--
Are known to me, and hated, too.

MEPHISTOPHELES

O, nonsense! That's a thing for laughter;
Don't be so terribly severe!
She juggles you as doctor now, that, after,
The beverage may work the proper cheer.

(_He persuades_ FAUST _to step into the circle_.)

THE WITCH

(_begins to declaim, with much emphasis, from the book_)

     See, thus it's done!
     Make ten of one,
     And two let be,
     Make even three,
     And rich thou 'It be.
     Cast o'er the four!
     From five and six
     (The witch's tricks)
     Make seven and eight,
     'Tis finished straight!
     And nine is one,
     And ten is none.
     This is the witch's once-one's-one!

FAUST

She talks like one who raves in fever.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Thou'lt hear much more before we leave her.
'Tis all the same: the book I can repeat,
Such time I've squandered o'er the history:
A contradiction thus complete
Is always for the wise, no less than fools, a mystery.
The art is old and new, for verily
All ages have been taught the matter,--
By Three and One, and One and Three,
Error instead of Truth to scatter.
They prate and teach, and no one interferes;
All from the fellowship of fools are shrinking.
Man usually believes, if only words he hears,
That also with them goes material for thinking!

THE WITCH (_continues_)

     The lofty skill
     Of Science, still
     From all men deeply hidden!
     Who takes no thought,
     To him 'tis brought,
     'Tis given unsought, unbidden!

FAUST

What nonsense she declaims before us!
My head is nigh to split, I fear:
It seems to me as if I hear
A hundred thousand fools in chorus.

MEPHISTOPHELES

O Sibyl excellent, enough of adjuration!
But hither bring us thy potation,
And quickly fill the beaker to the brim!
This drink will bring my friend no injuries:
He is a man of manifold degrees,
And many draughts are known to him.

(_The_ WITCH, _with many ceremonies, pours the drink into a
cup; as_ FAUST _sets it to his lips, a light flame arises_.)

Down with it quickly! Drain it off!
'Twill warm thy heart with new desire:
Art with the Devil hand and glove,
And wilt thou be afraid of fire?

(_The_ WITCH _breaks the circle_: FAUST _steps forth_.)

MEPHISTOPHELES

And now, away! Thou dar'st not rest.

THE WITCH

And much good may the liquor do thee!

MEPHISTOPHELES (_to the_ WITCH)

Thy wish be on Walpurgis Night expressed;
What boon I have, shall then be given unto thee.

THE WITCH

Here is a song, which, if you sometimes sing,
You'll find it of peculiar operation.

MEPHISTOPHELES (_to_ FAUST)

Come, walk at once! A rapid occupation
Must start the needful perspiration,
And through thy frame the liquor's potence fling.
The noble indolence I'll teach thee then to treasure,
And soon thou'lt be aware, with keenest thrills of pleasure,
How Cupid stirs and leaps, on light and restless wing.

FAUST

One rapid glance within the mirror give me,
How beautiful that woman-form!

MEPHISTOPHELES

No, no! The paragon of all, believe me,
Thou soon shalt see, alive and warm.

_(Aside)_

Thou'lt find, this drink thy blood compelling,
Each woman beautiful as Helen!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




VII


STREET

FAUST MARGARET _(passing by)_

FAUST

Fair lady, let it not offend you,
That arm and escort I would lend you!

MARGARET

I'm neither lady, neither fair,
And home I can go without your care.

[_She releases herself, and exit_.

FAUST

By Heaven, the girl is wondrous fair!
Of all I've seen, beyond compare;
So sweetly virtuous and pure,
And yet a little pert, be sure!
The lip so red, the cheek's clear dawn,
[Illustration:]
I'll not forget while the world rolls on!
How she cast down her timid eyes,
Deep in my heart imprinted lies:
How short and sharp of speech was she,
Why, 'twas a real ecstasy!

(MEPHISTOPHELES _enters_)

FAUST

Hear, of that girl I'd have possession!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Which, then?

FAUST

The one who just went by.

MEPHISTOPHELES

She, there? She's coming from confession,
Of every sin absolved; for I,
Behind her chair, was listening nigh.
So innocent is she, indeed,
That to confess she had no need.
I have no power o'er souls so green.

FAUST

And yet, she's older than fourteen.

MEPHISTOPHELES

How now! You're talking like Jack Rake,
Who every flower for himself would take,
And fancies there are no favors more,
Nor honors, save for him in store;
Yet always doesn't the thing succeed.

FAUST

Most Worthy Pedagogue, take heed!
Let not a word of moral law be spoken!
I claim, I tell thee, all my right;
And if that image of delight
Rest not within mine arms to-night,
At midnight is our compact broken.

MEPHISTOPHELES

But think, the chances of the case!
I need, at least, a fortnight's space,
To find an opportune occasion.

FAUST

Had I but seven hours for all,
I should not on the Devil call,
But win her by my own persuasion.

MEPHISTOPHELES

You almost like a Frenchman prate;
Yet, pray, don't take it as annoyance!
Why, all at once, exhaust the joyance?
Your bliss is by no means so great
As if you'd use, to get control,
All sorts of tender rigmarole,
And knead and shape her to your thought,
As in Italian tales 'tis taught.

FAUST

Without that, I have appetite.

MEPHISTOPHELES

But now, leave jesting out of sight!
I tell you, once for all, that speed
With this fair girl will not succeed;
By storm she cannot captured be;
We must make use of strategy.

FAUST

Get me something the angel keeps!
Lead me thither where she sleeps!
Get me a kerchief from her breast,--
A garter that her knee has pressed!

MEPHISTOPHELES

That you may see how much I'd fain
Further and satisfy your pain,
We will no longer lose a minute;
I'll find her room to-day, and take you in it.

FAUST

And shall I see--possess her?

MEPHISTOPHELES

No!
Unto a neighbor she must go,
And meanwhile thou, alone, mayst glow
With every hope of future pleasure,
Breathing her atmosphere in fullest measure.

FAUST

Can we go thither?

MEPHISTOPHELES

'Tis too early yet.

FAUST

A gift for her I bid thee get!
[_Exit_.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Presents at once? That's good: he's certain to get at her!
Full many a pleasant place I know,
And treasures, buried long ago:
I must, perforce, look up the matter. _[Exit_.
[Illustration]




VIII


EVENING A SMALL, NEATLY KEPT CHAMBER

MARGARET

(_plaiting and binding up the braids of her hair_)

I'd something give, could I but say
Who was that gentleman, to-day.
Surely a gallant man was he,
And of a noble family;
And much could I in his face behold,--
And he wouldn't, else, have been so bold!

                              [_Exit_

MEPHISTOPHELES FAUST

MEPHISTOPHELES

Come in, but gently: follow me!

FAUST (_after a moment's silence_)

Leave me alone, I beg of thee!

MEPHISTOPHELES (_prying about_)

Not every girl keeps things so neat.

FAUST (_looking around_)

O welcome, twilight soft and sweet,
That breathes throughout this hallowed shrine!
Sweet pain of love, bind thou with fetters fleet
The heart that on the dew of hope must pine!
How all around a sense impresses
Of quiet, order, and content!
This poverty what bounty blesses!
What bliss within this narrow den is pent!

(_He throws himself into a leathern arm-chair near the bed_.)

Receive me, thou, that in thine open arms
Departed joy and pain wert wont to gather!
How oft the children, with their ruddy charms,
Hung here, around this throne, where sat the father!
Perchance my love, amid the childish band,
Grateful for gifts the Holy Christmas gave her,
Here meekly kissed the grandsire's withered hand.
I feel, O maid! thy very soul
Of order and content around me whisper,--
Which leads thee with its motherly control,
The cloth upon thy board bids smoothly thee unroll,
The sand beneath thy feet makes whiter, crisper.
O dearest hand, to thee 'tis given
To change this hut into a lower heaven!
And here!

(_He lifts one of the bed-curtains_.)

What sweetest thrill is in my blood!
Here could I spend whole hours, delaying:
Here Nature shaped, as if in sportive playing,
The angel blossom from the bud.
Here lay the child, with Life's warm essence
The tender bosom filled and fair,
And here was wrought, through holier, purer presence,
The form diviner beings wear!

And I? What drew me here with power?
How deeply am I moved, this hour!
What seek I? Why so full my heart, and sore?
Miserable Faust! I know thee now no more.

Is there a magic vapor here?
I came, with lust of instant pleasure,
And lie dissolved in dreams of love's sweet leisure!
Are we the sport of every changeful atmosphere?

And if, this moment, came she in to me,
How would I for the fault atonement render!
How small the giant lout would be,
Prone at her feet, relaxed and tender!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Be quick! I see her there, returning.

FAUST

Go! go! I never will retreat.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Here is a casket, not unmeet,
Which elsewhere I have just been earning.
Here, set it in the press, with haste!
I swear, 'twill turn her head, to spy it:
Some baubles I therein had placed,
That you might win another by it.
True, child is child, and play is play.

FAUST

I know not, should I do it?

MEPHISTOPHELES

Ask you, pray?
Yourself, perhaps, would keep the bubble?
Then I suggest, 'twere fair and just
To spare the lovely day your lust,
And spare to me the further trouble.
You are not miserly, I trust?
I rub my hands, in expectation tender--

(_He places the casket in the press, and locks it again_.)

Now quick, away!
The sweet young maiden to betray,
So that by wish and will you bend her;
And you look as though
To the lecture-hall you were forced to go,--
As if stood before you, gray and loath,
Physics and Metaphysics both!
But away! [_Exeunt_.

MARGARET (_with a lamp_)

It is so close, so sultry, here!

(_She opens the window_)

And yet 'tis not so warm outside.
I feel, I know not why, such fear!--
Would mother came!--where can she bide?
My body's chill and shuddering,--
I'm but a silly, fearsome thing!

(_She begins to sing while undressing_)

        There was a King in Thule,
        Was faithful till the grave,--
        To whom his mistress, dying,
        A golden goblet gave.

        Naught was to him more precious;
        He drained it at every bout:
        His eyes with tears ran over,
        As oft as he drank thereout.

        When came his time of dying,
        The towns in his land he told,
        Naught else to his heir denying
        Except the goblet of gold.

        He sat at the royal banquet
        With his knights of high degree,
        In the lofty hall of his fathers
        In the Castle by the Sea.

        There stood the old carouser,
        And drank the last life-glow;
        And hurled the hallowed goblet
        Into the tide below.

        He saw it plunging and filling,
        And sinking deep in the sea:
        Then fell his eyelids forever,
        And never more drank he!

(_She opens the press in order to arrange her clothes, and perceives
the casket of jewels_.)

How comes that lovely casket here to me?
I locked the press, most certainly.
'Tis truly wonderful! What can within it be?
Perhaps 'twas brought by some one as a pawn,
And mother gave a loan thereon?
And here there hangs a key to fit:
I have a mind to open it.
What is that? God in Heaven! Whence came
Such things? Never beheld I aught so fair!
Rich ornaments, such as a noble dame
On highest holidays might wear!
How would the pearl-chain suit my hair?
Ah, who may all this splendor own?

(_She adorns herself with the jewelry, and steps before the
mirror_.)

Were but the ear-rings mine, alone!
One has at once another air.
What helps one's beauty, youthful blood?
One may possess them, well and good;
But none the more do others care.
They praise us half in pity, sure:
To gold still tends,
On gold depends
All, all! Alas, we poor!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




IX


PROMENADE

(FAUST, _walking thoughtfully up and down. To him_ MEPHISTOPHELES.)

MEPHISTOPHELES

By all love ever rejected! By hell-fire hot and unsparing!
I wish I knew something worse, that I might use it for
swearing!

FAUST

What ails thee? What is't gripes thee, elf?
A face like thine beheld I never.

MEPHISTOPHELES

I would myself unto the Devil deliver,
If I were not a Devil myself!

FAUST

Thy head is out of order, sadly:
It much becomes thee to be raving madly.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Just think, the pocket of a priest should get
The trinkets left for Margaret!
The mother saw them, and, instanter,
A secret dread began to haunt her.
Keen scent has she for tainted air;
She snuffs within her book of prayer,
And smells each article, to see
If sacred or profane it be;
So here she guessed, from every gem,
That not much blessing came with them.
"My child," she said, "ill-gotten good
Ensnares the soul, consumes the blood.
Before the Mother of God we'll lay it;
With heavenly manna she'll repay it!"
But Margaret thought, with sour grimace,
"A gift-horse is not out of place,
And, truly! godless cannot be
The one who brought such things to me."
A parson came, by the mother bidden:
He saw, at once, where the game was hidden,
And viewed it with a favor stealthy.
He spake: "That is the proper view,--
Who overcometh, winneth too.
The Holy Church has a stomach healthy:
Hath eaten many a land as forfeit,
And never yet complained of surfeit:
The Church alone, beyond all question,
Has for ill-gotten goods the right digestion."

FAUST

A general practice is the same,
Which Jew and King may also claim.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Then bagged the spangles, chains, and rings,
As if but toadstools were the things,
And thanked no less, and thanked no more
Than if a sack of nuts he bore,--
Promised them fullest heavenly pay,
And deeply edified were they.

FAUST

And Margaret?

MEPHISTOPHELES

Sits unrestful still,
And knows not what she should, or will;
Thinks on the jewels, day and night,
But more on him who gave her such delight.

FAUST

The darling's sorrow gives me pain.
Get thou a set for her again!
The first was not a great display.

MEPHISTOPHELES

O yes, the gentleman finds it all child's-play!

FAUST

Fix and arrange it to my will;
And on her neighbor try thy skill!
Don't be a Devil stiff as paste,
But get fresh jewels to her taste!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Yes, gracious Sir, in all obedience!

[_Exit_ FAUST.

Such an enamored fool in air would blow
Sun, moon, and all the starry legions,
To give his sweetheart a diverting show.

[_Exit_.

[Illustration]




X


THE NEIGHBOR'S HOUSE

MARTHA (_solus_)

God forgive my husband, yet he
Hasn't done his duty by me!
Off in the world he went straightway,--
Left me lie in the straw where I lay.
And, truly, I did naught to fret him:
God knows I loved, and can't forget him!

(_She weeps_.)

Perhaps he's even dead! Ah, woe!--
Had I a certificate to show!

MARGARET (_comes_)

Dame Martha!

MARTHA

Margaret! what's happened thee?

MARGARET

I scarce can stand, my knees are trembling!
I find a box, the first resembling,
Within my press! Of ebony,--
And things, all splendid to behold,
And richer far than were the old.

MARTHA

You mustn't tell it to your mother!
'Twould go to the priest, as did the other.

MARGARET

Ah, look and see--just look and see!

MARTHA (_adorning her_)

O, what a blessed luck for thee!

MARGARET

But, ah! in the streets I dare not bear them,
Nor in the church be seen to wear them.

MARTHA

Yet thou canst often this way wander,
And secretly the jewels don,
Walk up and down an hour, before the mirror yonder,--
We'll have our private joy thereon.
And then a chance will come, a holiday,
When, piece by piece, can one the things abroad display,
A chain at first, then other ornament:
Thy mother will not see, and stories we'll invent.

MARGARET

Whoever could have brought me things so precious?
That something's wrong, I feel suspicious.

(_A knock_)

Good Heaven! My mother can that have been?

MARTHA (_peeping through the blind_)

'Tis some strange gentleman.--Come in!

(MEPHISTOPHELES _enters_.)


MEPHISTOPHELES

That I so boldly introduce me,
I beg you, ladies, to excuse me.

(_Steps back reverently, on seeing_ MARGARET.)

For Martha Schwerdtlein I'd inquire!


MARTHA

I'm she: what does the gentleman desire?


MEPHISTOPHELES (_aside to her_)

It is enough that you are she:
You've a visitor of high degree.
Pardon the freedom I have ta'en,--
Will after noon return again.


MARTHA (_aloud_)

Of all things in the world! Just hear--
He takes thee for a lady, dear!


MARGARET

I am a creature young and poor:
The gentleman's too kind, I'm sure.
The jewels don't belong to me.


MEPHISTOPHELES

Ah, not alone the jewelry!
The look, the manner, both betray--
Rejoiced am I that I may stay!


MARTHA

What is your business? I would fain--

MEPHISTOPHELES

I would I had a more cheerful strain!
Take not unkindly its repeating:
Your husband's dead, and sends a greeting.


MARTHA

Is dead? Alas, that heart so true!
My husband dead! Let me die, too!


MARGARET

Ah, dearest dame, let not your courage fail!


MEPHISTOPHELES

Hear me relate the mournful tale!


MARGARET

Therefore I'd never love, believe me!
A loss like this to death would grieve me.


MEPHISTOPHELES

Joy follows woe, woe after joy comes flying.


MARTHA

Relate his life's sad close to me!


MEPHISTOPHELES

In Padua buried, he is lying
Beside the good Saint Antony,
Within a grave well consecrated,
For cool, eternal rest created.


MARTHA

He gave you, further, no commission?

MEPHISTOPHELES

Yes, one of weight, with many sighs:
Three hundred masses buy, to save him from perdition!
My hands are empty, otherwise.


MARTHA

What! Not a pocket-piece? no jewelry?
What every journeyman within his wallet spares,
And as a token with him bears,
And rather starves or begs, than loses?


MEPHISTOPHELES

Madam, it is a grief to me;
Yet, on my word, his cash was put to proper uses.
Besides, his penitence was very sore,
And he lamented his ill fortune all the more.


MARGARET

Alack, that men are so unfortunate!
Surely for his soul's sake full many a prayer I'll proffer.


MEPHISTOPHELES

You well deserve a speedy marriage-offer:
You are so kind, compassionate.


MARGARET

O, no! As yet, it would not do.


MEPHISTOPHELES

If not a husband, then a beau for you!
It is the greatest heavenly blessing,
To have a dear thing for one's caressing.


MARGARET

The country's custom is not so.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Custom, or not! It happens, though.


MARTHA

Continue, pray!


MEPHISTOPHELES

  I stood beside his bed of dying.
'Twas something better than manure,--
Half-rotten straw: and yet, he died a Christian, sure,
And found that heavier scores to his account were lying.
He cried: "I find my conduct wholly hateful!
To leave my wife, my trade, in manner so ungrateful!
Ah, the remembrance makes me die!
Would of my wrong to her I might be shriven!"


MARTHA (_weeping_)

The dear, good man! Long since was he forgiven.


MEPHISTOPHELES

"Yet she, God knows! was more to blame than I."


MARTHA

He lied! What! On the brink of death he slandered?


MEPHISTOPHELES

In the last throes his senses wandered,
If I such things but half can judge.
He said: "I had no time for play, for gaping freedom:
First children, and then work for bread to feed 'em,--
For bread, in the widest sense, to drudge,
And could not even eat my share in peace and quiet!"


MARTHA

Had he all love, all faith forgotten in his riot?
My work and worry, day and night?

MEPHISTOPHELES

Not so: the memory of it touched him quite.
Said he: "When I from Malta went away
My prayers for wife and little ones were zealous,
And such a luck from Heaven befell us,
We made a Turkish merchantman our prey,
That to the Soldan bore a mighty treasure.
Then I received, as was most fit,
Since bravery was paid in fullest measure,
My well-apportioned share of it."


MARTHA

Say, how? Say, where? If buried, did he own it?


MEPHISTOPHELES

Who knows, now, whither the four winds have blown it?
A fair young damsel took him in her care,
As he in Naples wandered round, unfriended;
And she much love, much faith to him did bear,
So that he felt it till his days were ended.


MARTHA

The villain! From his children thieving!
Even all the misery on him cast
Could not prevent his shameful way of living!


MEPHISTOPHELES

But see! He's dead therefrom, at last.
Were I in _your_ place, do not doubt me,
I'd mourn him decently a year,
And for another keep, meanwhile, my eyes about me.


MARTHA

Ah, God! another one so dear
As was my first, this world will hardly give me.
There never was a sweeter fool than mine,
Only he loved to roam and leave me,
And foreign wenches and foreign wine,
And the damned throw of dice, indeed.


MEPHISTOPHELES

Well, well! That might have done, however,
If he had only been as clever,
And treated _your_ slips with as little heed.
I swear, with this condition, too,
I would, myself, change rings with you.


MARTHA

The gentleman is pleased to jest.


MEPHISTOPHELES

I'll cut away, betimes, from here:
She'd take the Devil at his word, I fear.

(_To_ MARGARET)

How fares the heart within your breast?


MARGARET

What means the gentleman?


MEPHISTOPHELES (_aside_)

  Sweet innocent, thou art!

(_Aloud_.)

 Ladies, farewell!


MARGARET

Farewell!


MARTHA

                  A moment, ere we part!
I'd like to have a legal witness,
Where, how, and when he died, to certify his fitness.
Irregular ways I've always hated;
I want his death in the weekly paper stated.


MEPHISTOPHELES

Yes, my good dame, a pair of witnesses
Always the truth establishes.
I have a friend of high condition,
Who'll also add his deposition.
I'll bring him here.


MARTHA

                  Good Sir, pray do!


MEPHISTOPHELES

And this young lady will be present, too?
A gallant youth! has travelled far:
Ladies with him delighted are.


MARGARET

Before him I should blush, ashamed.


MEPHISTOPHELES

Before no king that could be named!


MARTHA

Behind the house, in my garden, then,
This eve we'll expect the gentlemen.

[Illustration]




XI


A STREET

FAUST MEPHISTOPHELES

FAUST

How is it? under way? and soon complete?

MEPHISTOPHELES

Ah, bravo! Do I find you burning?
Well, Margaret soon will still your yearning:
At Neighbor Martha's you'll this evening meet.
A fitter woman ne'er was made
To ply the pimp and gypsy trade!

FAUST

Tis well.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Yet something is required from us.

FAUST

One service pays the other thus.

MEPHISTOPHELES

We've but to make a deposition valid
That now her husband's limbs, outstretched and pallid,
At Padua rest, in consecrated soil.

FAUST

Most wise! And first, of course, we'll make the journey
  thither?

MEPHISTOPHELES

_Sancta simplicitas_! no need of such a toil;
Depose, with knowledge or without it, either!

FAUST

If you've naught better, then, I'll tear your pretty plan!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Now, there you are! O holy man!
Is it the first time in your life you're driven
To bear false witness in a case?
Of God, the world and all that in it has a place,
Of Man, and all that moves the being of his race,
Have you not terms and definitions given
With brazen forehead, daring breast?
And, if you'll probe the thing profoundly,
Knew you so much--and you'll confess it roundly!--
As here of Schwerdtlein's death and place of rest?

FAUST

Thou art, and thou remain'st, a sophist, liar.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Yes, knew I not more deeply thy desire.
For wilt thou not, no lover fairer,
Poor Margaret flatter, and ensnare her,
And all thy soul's devotion swear her?

FAUST

And from my heart.

MEPHISTOPHELES

  'Tis very fine!
Thine endless love, thy faith assuring,
The one almighty force enduring,--
Will that, too, prompt this heart of thine?

FAUST

Hold! hold! It will!--If such my flame,
And for the sense and power intense
I seek, and cannot find, a name;
Then range with all my senses through creation,
Craving the speech of inspiration,
And call this ardor, so supernal,
Endless, eternal and eternal,--
Is that a devilish lying game?

MEPHISTOPHELES

And yet I'm right!

FAUST

  Mark this, I beg of thee!
And spare my lungs henceforth: whoever
Intends to have the right, if but his
  tongue be clever,
Will have it, certainly.
But come: the further talking brings
  disgust,
For thou art right, especially since I
  must.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




XII


GARDEN

(MARGARET _on_ FAUST'S _arm_. MARTHA _and_ MEPHISTOPHELES
_walking up and down_.)

MARGARET

I feel, the gentleman allows for me,
Demeans himself, and shames me by it;
A traveller is so used to be
Kindly content with any diet.
I know too well that my poor gossip can
Ne'er entertain such an experienced man.

FAUST

A look from thee, a word, more entertains
Than all the lore of wisest brains.

(_He kisses her hand_.)

MARGARET

Don't incommode yourself! How could you ever kiss it!
It is so ugly, rough to see!
What work I do,--how hard and steady is it!
Mother is much too close with me.

[_They pass_.

MARTHA

And you, Sir, travel always, do you not?

MEPHISTOPHELES

Alas, that trade and duty us so harry!
With what a pang one leaves so many a spot,
And dares not even now and then to tarry!

MARTHA

In young, wild years it suits your ways,
This round and round the world in freedom sweeping;
But then come on the evil days,
And so, as bachelor, into his grave a-creeping,
None ever found a thing to praise.

MEPHISTOPHELES

I dread to see how such a fate advances.

MARTHA

Then, worthy Sir, improve betimes your chances!

[_They pass_.

MARGARET

Yes, out of sight is out of mind!
Your courtesy an easy grace is;
But you have friends in other places,
And sensibler than I, you'll find.

FAUST

Trust me, dear heart! what men call sensible
Is oft mere vanity and narrowness.

MARGARET

  How so?

FAUST

Ah, that simplicity and innocence ne'er know
Themselves, their holy value, and their spell!
That meekness, lowliness, the highest graces
Which Nature portions out so lovingly--

MARGARET

So you but think a moment's space on me,
All times I'll have to think on you, all places!

FAUST

No doubt you're much alone?

MARGARET

Yes, for our household small has grown,
Yet must be cared for, you will own.
We have no maid: I do the knitting, sewing, sweeping,
The cooking, early work and late, in fact;
And mother, in her notions of housekeeping,
Is so exact!
Not that she needs so much to keep expenses down:
We, more than others, might take comfort, rather:
A nice estate was left us by my father,
A house, a little garden near the town.
But now my days have less of noise and hurry;
My brother is a soldier,
My little sister's dead.
True, with the child a troubled life I led,
Yet I would take again, and willing, all the worry,
So very dear was she.

FAUST

An angel, if like thee!

MARGARET

I brought it up, and it was fond of me.
Father had died before it saw the light,
And mother's case seemed hopeless quite,
So weak and miserable she lay;
And she recovered, then, so slowly, day by day.
She could not think, herself, of giving
The poor wee thing its natural living;
And so I nursed it all alone
With milk and water: 'twas my own.
Lulled in my lap with many a song,
It smiled, and tumbled, and grew strong.

FAUST

The purest bliss was surely then thy dower.

MARGARET

But surely, also, many a weary hour.
I kept the baby's cradle near
My bed at night: if 't even stirred, I'd guess it,
And waking, hear.
And I must nurse it, warm beside me press it,
And oft, to quiet it, my bed forsake,
And dandling back and forth the restless creature take,
Then at the wash-tub stand, at morning's break;
And then the marketing and kitchen-tending,
Day after day, the same thing, never-ending.
One's spirits, Sir, are thus not always good,
But then one learns to relish rest and food.

[_They pass_.

MARTHA

Yes, the poor women are bad off, 'tis true:
A stubborn bachelor there's no converting.

MEPHISTOPHELES

It but depends upon the like of you,
And I should turn to better ways than flirting.

MARTHA

Speak plainly, Sir, have you no one detected?
Has not your heart been anywhere subjected?

MEPHISTOPHELES

The proverb says: One's own warm hearth
And a good wife, are gold and jewels worth.

MARTHA

I mean, have you not felt desire, though ne'er so slightly?

MEPHISTOPHELES

I've everywhere, in fact, been entertained politely.

MARTHA

I meant to say, were you not touched in earnest, ever?

MEPHISTOPHELES

One should allow one's self to jest with ladies never.


MARTHA
Ah, you don't understand!

MEPHISTOPHELES

I'm sorry I'm so blind:
But I am sure--that you are very kind.

[_They pass_.

FAUST

And me, thou angel! didst thou recognize,
As through the garden-gate I came?

MARGARET

Did you not see it? I cast down my eyes.

FAUST

And thou forgiv'st my freedom, and the blame
To my impertinence befitting,
As the Cathedral thou wert quitting?

MARGARET

I was confused, the like ne'er happened me;
No one could ever speak to my discredit.
Ah, thought I, in my conduct has he read it--
Something immodest or unseemly free?
He seemed to have the sudden feeling
That with this wench 'twere very easy dealing.
I will confess, I knew not what appeal
On your behalf, here, in my bosom grew;
But I was angry with myself, to feel
That I could not be angrier with you.


FAUST

Sweet darling!

MARGARET

Wait a while!

(_She plucks a star-flower, and pulls off the leaves, one after
the other_.)

FAUST

Shall that a nosegay be?

MARGARET

No, it is just in play.

FAUST

How?

MARGARET

Go! you'll laugh at me.
(_She pulls off the leaves and murmurs_.)

FAUST

What murmurest thou?

MARGARET (_half aloud_)

He loves me--loves me not.

FAUST

Thou sweet, angelic soul!

MARGARET (_continues_)

Loves me--not--loves me--not--
(_plucking the last leaf, she cries with frank delight_:)

He loves me!

FAUST

Yes, child! and let this blossom-word
For thee be speech divine! He loves thee!
Ah, know'st thou what it means? He loves thee!

(_He grasps both her hands_.)

MARGARET

I'm all a-tremble!

FAUST

O tremble not! but let this look,
Let this warm clasp of hands declare thee
What is unspeakable!
To yield one wholly, and to feel a rapture
In yielding, that must be eternal!
Eternal!--for the end would be despair.
No, no,--no ending! no ending!

MARTHA (_coming forward_)

The night is falling.

MEPHISTOPHELES

                    Ay! we must away.

MARTHA

I'd ask you, longer here to tarry,
But evil tongues in this town have full play.
It's as if nobody had nothing to fetch and carry,
Nor other labor,
But spying all the doings of one's neighbor:
And one becomes the talk, do whatsoe'er one may.
Where is our couple now?

MEPHISTOPHELES

                 Flown up the alley yonder,
The wilful summer-birds!

MARTHA

                 He seems of her still fonder.

MEPHISTOPHELES

And she of him. So runs the world away!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




XIII


A GARDEN-ARBOR

(MARGARET _comes in, conceals herself behind the door, puts her
finger to her lips, and peeps through the crack_.)

MARGARET

He comes!

FAUST (_entering_)

                  Ah, rogue! a tease thou art:
I have thee!
(_He kisses her_.)

MARGARET

(_clasping him, and returning the kiss_)
             Dearest man! I love thee from my heart.

(MEPHISTOPHELES _knocks_)

FAUST (_stamping his foot_)

Who's there?

MEPHISTOPHELES

A friend!

FAUST

              A beast!

MEPHISTOPHELES

             Tis time to separate.

MARTHA (_coming_)

Yes, Sir, 'tis late.

FAUST

            May I not, then, upon you wait?

MARGARET
My mother would--farewell!

FAUST

            Ah, can I not remain?
Farewell!

MARTHA

          Adieu!

MARGARET

             And soon to meet again!

[_Exeunt_ FAUST _and_ MEPHISTOPHELES.

MARGARET

Dear God! However is it, such
A man can think and know so much?
I stand ashamed and in amaze,
And answer "Yes" to all he says,
A poor, unknowing child! and he--
I can't think what he finds in me! [_Exit_.

[Illustration]




XIV


FOREST AND CAVERN

FAUST (_solus_)

Spirit sublime, thou gav'st me, gav'st me all
For which I prayed. Not unto me in vain
Hast thou thy countenance revealed in fire.
Thou gav'st me Nature as a kingdom grand,
With power to feel and to enjoy it. Thou
Not only cold, amazed acquaintance yield'st,
But grantest, that in her profoundest breast
I gaze, as in the bosom of a friend.
The ranks of living creatures thou dost lead
Before me, teaching me to know my brothers
In air and water and the silent wood.
And when the storm in forests roars and grinds,
The giant firs, in falling, neighbor boughs
And neighbor trunks with crushing weight bear down,
And falling, fill the hills with hollow thunders,--
Then to the cave secure thou leadest me,
Then show'st me mine own self, and in my breast
The deep, mysterious miracles unfold.
And when the perfect moon before my gaze
Comes up with soothing light, around me float
From every precipice and thicket damp
The silvery phantoms of the ages past,
And temper the austere delight of thought.

That nothing can be perfect unto Man
I now am conscious. With this ecstasy,
Which brings me near and nearer to the Gods,
Thou gav'st the comrade, whom I now no more
Can do without, though, cold and scornful, he
Demeans me to myself, and with a breath,
A word, transforms thy gifts to nothingness.
Within my breast he fans a lawless fire,
Unwearied, for that fair and lovely form:
Thus in desire I hasten to enjoyment,
And in enjoyment pine to feel desire.

(MEPHISTOPHELES _enters_.)

MEPHISTOPHELES

Have you not led this life quite long enough?
How can a further test delight you?
'Tis very well, that once one tries the stuff,
But something new must then requite you.

FAUST

Would there were other work for thee!
To plague my day auspicious thou returnest.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Well! I'll engage to let thee be:
Thou darest not tell me so in earnest.
The loss of thee were truly very slight,--
comrade crazy, rude, repelling:

[Illustration]

One has one's hands full all the day and night;
If what one does, or leaves undone, is right,
From such a face as thine there is no telling.

FAUST

There is, again, thy proper tone!--
That thou hast bored me, I must thankful be!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Poor Son of Earth, how couldst thou thus alone
Have led thy life, bereft of me?
I, for a time, at least, have worked thy cure;
Thy fancy's rickets plague thee not at all:
Had I not been, so hadst thou, sure,
Walked thyself off this earthly ball
Why here to caverns, rocky hollows slinking,
Sit'st thou, as 'twere an owl a-blinking?
Why suck'st, from sodden moss and dripping stone,
Toad-like, thy nourishment alone?
A fine way, this, thy time to fill!
The Doctor's in thy body still.

FAUST

What fresh and vital forces, canst thou guess,
Spring from my commerce with the wilderness?
But, if thou hadst the power of guessing,
Thou wouldst be devil enough to grudge my soul the blessing.

MEPHISTOPHELES

A blessing drawn from supernatural fountains!
In night and dew to lie upon the mountains;
All Heaven and Earth in rapture penetrating;
Thyself to Godhood haughtily inflating;
To grub with yearning force through Earth's dark marrow,
Compress the six days' work within thy bosom narrow,--
To taste, I know not what, in haughty power,
Thine own ecstatic life on all things shower,
Thine earthly self behind thee cast,
And then the lofty instinct, thus--

(_With a gesture_:)

at last,--
daren't say how--to pluck the final flower!

FAUST

Shame on thee!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Yes, thou findest that unpleasant!
Thou hast the moral right to cry me "shame!" at present.
One dares not that before chaste ears declare,
Which chaste hearts, notwithstanding, cannot spare;
And, once for all, I grudge thee not the pleasure
Of lying to thyself in moderate measure.
But such a course thou wilt not long endure;
Already art thou o'er-excited,
And, if it last, wilt soon be plighted
To madness and to horror, sure.
Enough of that! Thy love sits lonely yonder,
By all things saddened and oppressed;
Her thoughts and yearnings seek thee, tenderer, fonder,--
mighty love is in her breast.
First came thy passion's flood and poured around her
As when from melted snow a streamlet overflows;
Thou hast therewith so filled and drowned her,
That now _thy_ stream all shallow shows.
Methinks, instead of in the forests lording,
The noble Sir should find it good,
The love of this young silly blood
At once to set about rewarding.
Her time is miserably long;
She haunts her window, watching clouds that stray
O'er the old city-wall, and far away.
"Were I a little bird!" so runs her song,
Day long, and half night long.
Now she is lively, mostly sad,
Now, wept beyond her tears;
Then again quiet she appears,--Always
love-mad.

FAUST

Serpent! Serpent!

MEPHISTOPHELES _(aside)_

Ha! do I trap thee!

FAUST

Get thee away with thine offences,
Reprobate! Name not that fairest thing,
Nor the desire for her sweet body bring
Again before my half-distracted senses!

MEPHISTOPHELES

What wouldst thou, then? She thinks that thou art flown;
And half and half thou art, I own.

FAUST

Yet am I near, and love keeps watch and ward;
Though I were ne'er so far, it cannot falter:
I envy even the Body of the Lord
The touching of her lips, before the altar.

MEPHISTOPHELES

'Tis very well! _My_ envy oft reposes
On your twin-pair, that feed among the roses.

FAUST

Away, thou pimp!

MEPHISTOPHELES

You rail, and it is fun to me.
The God, who fashioned youth and maid,
Perceived the noblest purpose of His trade,
And also made their opportunity.
Go on! It is a woe profound!
'Tis for your sweetheart's room you're bound,
And not for death, indeed.

FAUST

What are, within her arms, the heavenly blisses?
Though I be glowing with her kisses,
Do I not always share her need?
I am the fugitive, all houseless roaming,
The monster without air or rest,
That like a cataract, down rocks and gorges foaming,
Leaps, maddened, into the abyss's breast!
And side-wards she, with young unwakened senses,
Within her cabin on the Alpine field
Her simple, homely life commences,
Her little world therein concealed.
And I, God's hate flung o'er me,
Had not enough, to thrust
The stubborn rocks before me
And strike them into dust!
She and her peace I yet must undermine:
Thou, Hell, hast claimed this sacrifice as thine!
Help, Devil! through the coming pangs to push me;
What must be, let it quickly be!
Let fall on me her fate, and also crush me,--
One ruin whelm both her and me!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Again it seethes, again it glows!
Thou fool, go in and comfort her!
When such a head as thine no outlet knows,
It thinks the end must soon occur.
Hail him, who keeps a steadfast mind!
Thou, else, dost well the devil-nature wear:
Naught so insipid in the world I find
As is a devil in despair.

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




XV


MARGARET'S ROOM

MARGARET

(_at the spinning-wheel, alone_)

        My peace is gone,
        My heart is sore:
        I never shall find it,
        Ah, nevermore!

        Save I have him near.
        The grave is here;
        The world is gall
        And bitterness all.

        My poor weak head
        Is racked and crazed;
        My thought is lost,
        My senses mazed.

        My peace is gone,
        My heart is sore:
        I never shall find it,
        Ah, nevermore!

        To see him, him only,
        At the pane I sit;
        To meet him, him only,
        The house I quit.

        His lofty gait,
        His noble size,
        The smile of his mouth,
        The power of his eyes,

        And the magic flow
        Of his talk, the bliss
        In the clasp of his hand,
        And, ah! his kiss!

        My peace is gone,
        My heart is sore:
        I never shall find it,
        Ah, nevermore!

        My bosom yearns
        For him alone;
        Ah, dared I clasp him,
        And hold, and own!

        And kiss his mouth,
        To heart's desire,
        And on his kisses
        At last expire!

[Illustration]




XVI


MARTHA'S GARDEN

MARGARET FAUST

MARGARET

Promise me, Henry!--

FAUST

What I can!

MARGARET

How is't with thy religion, pray?
Thou art a dear, good-hearted man,
And yet, I think, dost not incline that way.

FAUST

Leave that, my child! Thou know'st my love is tender;
For love, my blood and life would I surrender,
And as for Faith and Church, I grant to each his own.

MARGARET

That's not enough: we must believe thereon.

FAUST

Must we?

MARGARET

Would that I had some influence!
Then, too, thou honorest not the Holy Sacraments.

FAUST

I honor them.

MARGARET

Desiring no possession
'Tis long since thou hast been to mass or to confession.
Believest thou in God?

FAUST

My darling, who shall dare
"I believe in God!" to say?
Ask priest or sage the answer to declare,
And it will seem a mocking play,
A sarcasm on the asker.

MARGARET

Then thou believest not!

FAUST

Hear me not falsely, sweetest countenance!
Who dare express Him?
And who profess Him,
Saying: I believe in Him!
Who, feeling, seeing,
Deny His being,
Saying: I believe Him not!
The All-enfolding,
The All-upholding,
Folds and upholds he not
Thee, me, Himself?
Arches not there the sky above us?
Lies not beneath us, firm, the earth?
And rise not, on us shining,
Friendly, the everlasting stars?
Look I not, eye to eye, on thee,
And feel'st not, thronging
To head and heart, the force,
Still weaving its eternal secret,
Invisible, visible, round thy life?
Vast as it is, fill with that force thy heart,
And when thou in the feeling wholly blessed art,
Call it, then, what thou wilt,--
Call it Bliss! Heart! Love! God!
I have no name to give it!
Feeling is all in all:
The Name is sound and smoke,
Obscuring Heaven's clear glow.

MARGARET

All that is fine and good, to hear it so:
Much the same way the preacher spoke,
Only with slightly different phrases.

FAUST

The same thing, in all places,
All hearts that beat beneath the heavenly day--
Each in its language--say;
Then why not I, in mine, as well?

MARGARET

To hear it thus, it may seem passable;
And yet, some hitch in't there must be
For thou hast no Christianity.

FAUST

Dear love!

MARGARET

                  I've long been grieved to see
That thou art in such company.

FAUST

How so?

MARGARET

        The man who with thee goes, thy mate,
Within my deepest, inmost soul I hate.
In all my life there's nothing
Has given my heart so keen a pang of loathing,
As his repulsive face has done.

FAUST

Nay, fear him not, my sweetest one!

MARGARET

I feel his presence like something ill.
I've else, for all, a kindly will,
But, much as my heart to see thee yearneth,
The secret horror of him returneth;
And I think the man a knave, as I live!
If I do him wrong, may God forgive!

FAUST

There must be such queer birds, however.

MARGARET

Live with the like of him, may I never!
When once inside the door comes he,
He looks around so sneeringly,
And half in wrath:
One sees that in nothing no interest he hath:
'Tis written on his very forehead
That love, to him, is a thing abhorréd.
I am so happy on thine arm,
So free, so yielding, and so warm,
And in his presence stifled seems my heart.

FAUST

Foreboding angel that thou art!

MARGARET

It overcomes me in such degree,
That wheresoe'er he meets us, even,
I feel as though I'd lost my love for thee.
When he is by, I could not pray to Heaven.
That burns within me like a flame,
And surely, Henry, 'tis with thee the same.

FAUST

There, now, is thine antipathy!

MARGARET

But I must go.

FAUST

                Ah, shall there never be
A quiet hour, to see us fondly plighted,
With breast to breast, and soul to soul united?

MARGARET

Ah, if I only slept alone!
I'd draw the bolts to-night, for thy desire;
But mother's sleep so light has grown,
And if we were discovered by her,
'Twould be my death upon the spot!

FAUST

Thou angel, fear it not!
Here is a phial: in her drink
But three drops of it measure,
And deepest sleep will on her senses sink.

MARGARET

What would I not, to give thee pleasure?
It will not harm her, when one tries it?

FAUST

If 'twould, my love, would I advise it?

MARGARET

Ah, dearest man, if but thy face I see,
I know not what compels me to thy will:
So much have I already done for thee,
That scarcely more is left me to fulfil.

(_Enter_ MEPHISTOPHELES.) [_Exit_.

MEPHISTOPHELES

The monkey! Is she gone?

FAUST

                          Hast played the spy again?

MEPHISTOPHELES

I've heard, most fully, how she drew thee.
The Doctor has been catechised, 'tis plain;
Great good, I hope, the thing will do thee.
The girls have much desire to ascertain
If one is prim and good, as ancient rules compel:
If there he's led, they think, he'll follow them as well.

FAUST

Thou, monster, wilt nor see nor own
How this pure soul, of faith so lowly,
So loving and ineffable,--
The faith alone
That her salvation is,--with scruples holy
Pines, lest she hold as lost the man she loves so well!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Thou, full of sensual, super-sensual desire,
A girl by the nose is leading thee.

FAUST

Abortion, thou, of filth and fire!

MEPHISTOPHELES

And then, how masterly she reads physiognomy!
When I am present she's impressed, she knows not how;
She in my mask a hidden sense would read:
She feels that surely I'm a genius now,--
Perhaps the very Devil, indeed!
Well, well,--to-night--?

FAUST

                          What's that to thee?

MEPHISTOPHELES

Yet my delight 'twill also be!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




XVII


AT THE FOUNTAIN

MARGARET _and_ LISBETH _With pitchers_.

LISBETH

Hast nothing heard of Barbara?

MARGARET

No, not a word. I go so little out.

LISBETH

It's true, Sibylla said, to-day.
She's played the fool at last, there's not a doubt.
Such taking-on of airs!

MARGARET

                        How so?

LISBETH

                                 It stinks!
She's feeding two, whene'er she eats and drinks.

MARGARET

Ah!

LISBETH

    And so, at last, it serves her rightly.
She clung to the fellow so long and tightly!
That was a promenading!
At village and dance parading!
As the first they must everywhere shine,
And he treated her always to pies and wine,
And she made a to-do with her face so fine;
So mean and shameless was her behavior,
She took all the presents the fellow gave her.
'Twas kissing and coddling, on and on!
So now, at the end, the flower is gone.

MARGARET

The poor, poor thing!

LISBETH

                      Dost pity her, at that?
When one of us at spinning sat,
And mother, nights, ne'er let us out the door
She sported with her paramour.
On the door-bench, in the passage dark,
The length of the time they'd never mark.
So now her head no more she'll lift,
But do church-penance in her sinner's shift!

MARGARET

He'll surely take her for his wife.

LISBETH

He'd be a fool! A brisk young blade
Has room, elsewhere, to ply his trade.
Besides, he's gone.

MARGARET

                   That is not fair!

LISBETH

If him she gets, why let her beware!
The boys shall dash her wreath on the floor,
And we'll scatter chaff before her door!
                                              [_Exit_.

MARGARET (_returning home_)

How scornfully I once reviled,
When some poor maiden was beguiled!
More speech than any tongue suffices
I craved, to censure others' vices.
Black as it seemed, I blackened still,
And blacker yet was in my will;
And blessed myself, and boasted high,--
And now--a living sin am I!
Yet--all that drove my heart thereto,
God! was so good, so dear, so true!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




XVIII


DONJON

(_In a niche of the wall a shrine, with an image of the Mater
Dolorosa. Pots of flowers before it_.)

MARGARET

(_putting fresh flowers in the pots_)

        Incline, O Maiden,
        Thou sorrow-laden,
        Thy gracious countenance upon my pain!

        The sword Thy heart in,
        With anguish smarting,
        Thou lookest up to where Thy Son is slain!

        Thou seest the Father;
        Thy sad sighs gather,
        And bear aloft Thy sorrow and His pain!

        Ah, past guessing,
        Beyond expressing,
        The pangs that wring my flesh and bone!
        Why this anxious heart so burneth,
        Why it trembleth, why it yearneth,
        Knowest Thou, and Thou alone!

        Where'er I go, what sorrow,
        What woe, what woe and sorrow
        Within my bosom aches!
        Alone, and ah! unsleeping,
        I'm weeping, weeping, weeping,
        The heart within me breaks.

        The pots before my window,
        Alas! my tears did wet,
        As in the early morning
        For thee these flowers I set.

        Within my lonely chamber
        The morning sun shone red:
        I sat, in utter sorrow,
        Already on my bed.

        Help! rescue me from death and stain!
        O Maiden!
        Thou sorrow-laden,
        Incline Thy countenance upon my pain!

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




XIX


NIGHT

STREET BEFORE MARGARET'S DOOR

VALENTINE (_a soldier_, MARGARET'S _brother_)

When I have sat at some carouse.
Where each to each his brag allows,
And many a comrade praised to me
His pink of girls right lustily,
With brimming glass that spilled the toast,
And elbows planted as in boast:
I sat in unconcerned repose,
And heard the swagger as it rose.
And stroking then my beard, I'd say,
Smiling, the bumper in my hand:
"Each well enough in her own way.
But is there one in all the land
Like sister Margaret, good as gold,--
One that to her can a candle hold?"
Cling! clang! "Here's to her!" went around
The board: "He speaks the truth!" cried some;
"In her the flower o' the sex is found!"
And all the swaggerers were dumb.
And now!--I could tear my hair with vexation.
And dash out my brains in desperation!
With turned-up nose each scamp may face me,
With sneers and stinging taunts disgrace me,
And, like a bankrupt debtor sitting,
A chance-dropped word may set me sweating!
Yet, though I thresh them all together,
I cannot call them liars, either.

But what comes sneaking, there, to view?
If I mistake not, there are two.
If _he's_ one, let me at him drive!
He shall not leave the spot alive.

FAUST MEPHISTOPHELES

FAUST

How from the window of the sacristy
Upward th'eternal lamp sends forth a glimmer,
That, lessening side-wards, fainter grows and dimmer,
Till darkness closes from the sky!
The shadows thus within my bosom gather.

MEPHISTOPHELES

I'm like a sentimental tom-cat, rather,
That round the tall fire-ladders sweeps,
And stealthy, then, along the coping creeps:
Quite virtuous, withal, I come,
A little thievish and a little frolicsome.
I feel in every limb the presage
Forerunning the grand Walpurgis-Night:
Day after to-morrow brings its message,
And one keeps watch then with delight.

FAUST

Meanwhile, may not the treasure risen be,
Which there, behind, I glimmering see?

MEPHISTOPHELES

Shalt soon experience the pleasure,
To lift the kettle with its treasure.
I lately gave therein a squint--
Saw splendid lion-dollars in 't.

FAUST

Not even a jewel, not a ring,
To deck therewith my darling girl?

MEPHISTOPHELES

I saw, among the rest, a thing
That seemed to be a chain of pearl.

FAUST

That's well, indeed! For painful is it
To bring no gift when her I visit.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Thou shouldst not find it so annoying,
Without return to be enjoying.
Now, while the sky leads forth its starry throng,
Thou'lt hear a masterpiece, no work completer:
I'll sing her, first, a moral song,
The surer, afterwards, to cheat her.

(_Sings to the cither_.)

        What dost thou here
        In daybreak clear,
        Kathrina dear,
        Before thy lover's door?
        Beware! the blade
        Lets in a maid.
        That out a maid
        Departeth nevermore!

        The coaxing shun
        Of such an one!
        When once 'tis done
        Good-night to thee, poor thing!
        Love's time is brief:
        Unto no thief
        Be warm and lief,
        But with the wedding-ring!

VALENTINE (_comes forward_)

Whom wilt thou lure? God's-element!
Rat-catching piper, thou!--perdition!
To the Devil, first, the instrument!
To the Devil, then, the curst musician!

MEPHISTOPHELES

The cither's smashed! For nothing more 'tis fitting.

VALENTINE

There's yet a skull I must be splitting!

MEPHISTOPHELES (_to_ FAUST)

Sir Doctor, don't retreat, I pray!
Stand by: I'll lead, if you'll but tarry:
Out with your spit, without delay!
You've but to lunge, and I will parry.

VALENTINE

Then parry that!

MEPHISTOPHELES

                 Why not? 'tis light.
VALENTINE

That, too!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Of course.

VALENTINE

I think the Devil must fight!
How is it, then? my hand's already lame:

MEPHISTOPHELES (_to_ FAUST)

Thrust home!

VALENTINE (_jails_)

O God!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Now is the lubber tame!
But come, away! 'Tis time for us to fly;
For there arises now a murderous cry.
With the police 'twere easy to compound it,
But here the penal court will sift and sound it.

[_Exit with_ FAUST.

MARTHA (_at the window_)

Come out! Come out!

MARGARET (_at the window_)

Quick, bring a light!

MARTHA (_as above_)

They swear and storm, they yell and fight!

PEOPLE

Here lies one dead already--see!

MARTHA (_coming from the house_)

The murderers, whither have they run?

MARGARET (_coming out_)

Who lies here?

PEOPLE

'Tis thy mother's son!

MARGARET

Almighty God! what misery!

VALENTINE

I'm dying! That is quickly said,
And quicker yet 'tis done.
Why howl, you women there? Instead,
Come here and listen, every one!

(_All gather around him_)

My Margaret, see! still young thou art,
But not the least bit shrewd or smart,
Thy business thus to slight:
So this advice I bid thee heed--
Now that thou art a whore indeed,
Why, be one then, outright!

MARGARET

My brother! God! such words to me?

VALENTINE

In this game let our Lord God be!
What's done's already done, alas!
What follows it, must come to pass.
With one begin'st thou secretly,
Then soon will others come to thee,
And when a dozen thee have known,
Thou'rt also free to all the town.
When Shame is born and first appears,
She is in secret brought to light,
And then they draw the veil of night
Over her head and ears;
Her life, in fact, they're loath to spare her.
But let her growth and strength display,
She walks abroad unveiled by day,
Yet is not grown a whit the fairer.
The uglier she is to sight,
The more she seeks the day's broad light.
The time I verily can discern
When all the honest folk will turn
From thee, thou jade! and seek protection
As from a corpse that breeds infection.
Thy guilty heart shall then dismay thee.
When they but look thee in the face:--
Shalt not in a golden chain array thee,
Nor at the altar take thy place!
Shalt not, in lace and ribbons flowing,
Make merry when the dance is going!
But in some corner, woe betide thee!
Among the beggars and cripples hide thee;
And so, though even God forgive,
On earth a damned existence live!

MARTHA

Commend your soul to God for pardon,
That you your heart with slander harden!

VALENTINE

Thou pimp most infamous, be still!
Could I thy withered body kill,
'Twould bring, for all my sinful pleasure,
Forgiveness in the richest measure.

MARGARET

My brother! This is Hell's own pain!

VALENTINE

I tell thee, from thy tears refrain!
When thou from honor didst depart
It stabbed me to the very heart.
Now through the slumber of the grave
I go to God as a soldier brave.

(_Dies_.)

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




XX


CATHEDRAL

SERVICE, ORGAN _and_ ANTHEM.

(MARGARET _among much people: the_ EVIL SPIRIT _behind_
MARGARET.)

EVIL SPIRIT

HOW otherwise was it, Margaret,
When thou, still innocent,
Here to the altar cam'st,
And from the worn and fingered book
Thy prayers didst prattle,
Half sport of childhood,
Half God within thee!
Margaret!
Where tends thy thought?
Within thy bosom
What hidden crime?
Pray'st thou for mercy on thy mother's soul,
That fell asleep to long, long torment, and through thee?
Upon thy threshold whose the blood?
And stirreth not and quickens
Something beneath thy heart,
Thy life disquieting
With most foreboding presence?

MARGARET

Woe! woe!
Would I were free from the thoughts
That cross me, drawing hither and thither
Despite me!

CHORUS

        _Diesira, dies illa,
        Solvet soeclum in favilla_!
        _(Sound of the organ_.)

EVIL SPIRIT

Wrath takes thee!
The trumpet peals!
The graves tremble!
And thy heart
From ashy rest
To fiery torments
Now again requickened,
Throbs to life!

MARGARET

Would I were forth!
I feel as if the organ here
My breath takes from me,
My very heart
Dissolved by the anthem!


CHORUS

        _Judex ergo cum sedebit,
        Quidquid latet, ad parebit,
        Nil inultum remanebit_.
MARGARET

I cannot breathe!
The massy pillars
Imprison me!
The vaulted arches
Crush me!--Air!

EVIL SPIRIT

Hide thyself! Sin and shame
Stay never hidden.
Air? Light?
Woe to thee!

CHORUS

        _Quid sum miser tunc dicturus,
        Quem patronem rogaturus,
        Cum vix Justus sit securus_?

EVIL SPIRIT

They turn their faces,
The glorified, from thee:
The pure, their hands to offer,
Shuddering, refuse thee!
Woe!

CHORUS

_Quid sum miser tune dicturus_?

MARGARET

Neighbor! your cordial! (_She falls in a swoon_.)

[Illustration]

[Illustration]




XXI


WALPURGIS-NIGHT

THE HARTZ MOUNTAINS.

_District of Schierke and Elend_.

FAUST MEPHISTOPHELES

MEPHISTOPHELES

DOST thou not wish a broomstick-steed's assistance?
The sturdiest he-goat I would gladly see:
The way we take, our goal is yet some distance.

FAUST

So long as in my legs I feel the fresh existence.
This knotted staff suffices me.
What need to shorten so the way?
Along this labyrinth of vales to wander,
Then climb the rocky ramparts yonder,
Wherefrom the fountain flings eternal spray,
Is such delight, my steps would fain delay.
The spring-time stirs within the fragrant birches,
And even the fir-tree feels it now:
Should then our limbs escape its gentle searches?

MEPHISTOPHELES

I notice no such thing, I vow!
'Tis winter still within my body:
Upon my path I wish for frost and snow.
How sadly rises, incomplete and ruddy,
The moon's lone disk, with its belated glow,
And lights so dimly, that, as one advances,
At every step one strikes a rock or tree!
Let us, then, use a Jack-o'-lantern's glances:
I see one yonder, burning merrily.
Ho, there! my friend! I'll levy thine attendance:
Why waste so vainly thy resplendence?
Be kind enough to light us up the steep!

WILL-O'-THE-WISP

My reverence, I hope, will me enable
To curb my temperament unstable;
For zigzag courses we are wont to keep.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Indeed? he'd like mankind to imitate!
Now, in the Devil's name, go straight,
Or I'll blow out his being's flickering spark!

WILL-O'-THE-WISP

You are the master of the house, I mark,
And I shall try to serve you nicely.
But then, reflect: the mountain's magic-mad to-day,
And if a will-o'-the-wisp must guide you on the way,
You mustn't take things too precisely.

FAUST, MEPHISTOPHELES, WILL-O'-THE-WISP

(_in alternating song_)

     We, it seems, have entered newly
     In the sphere of dreams enchanted.
     Do thy bidding, guide us truly,
     That our feet be forwards planted
     In the vast, the desert spaces!
     See them swiftly changing places,
     Trees on trees beside us trooping,
     And the crags above us stooping,
     And the rocky snouts, outgrowing,--
     Hear them snoring, hear them blowing!
     O'er the stones, the grasses, flowing
     Stream and streamlet seek the hollow.
     Hear I noises? songs that follow?
     Hear I tender love-petitions?
     Voices of those heavenly visions?
     Sounds of hope, of love undying!
     And the echoes, like traditions
     Of old days, come faint and hollow.

     Hoo-hoo! Shoo-hoo! Nearer hover
     Jay and screech-owl, and the plover,--
     Are they all awake and crying?
     Is't the salamander pushes,
     Bloated-bellied, through the bushes?
     And the roots, like serpents twisted,
     Through the sand and boulders toiling,
     Fright us, weirdest links uncoiling
     To entrap us, unresisted:
     Living knots and gnarls uncanny
     Feel with polypus-antennae
     For the wanderer. Mice are flying,
     Thousand-colored, herd-wise hieing
     Through the moss and through the heather!

     And the fire-flies wink and darkle,
     Crowded swarms that soar and sparkle,
     And in wildering escort gather!

     Tell me, if we still are standing,
     Or if further we're ascending?
     All is turning, whirling, blending,
     Trees and rocks with grinning faces,
     Wandering lights that spin in mazes,
     Still increasing and expanding!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Grasp my skirt with heart undaunted!
Here a middle-peak is planted,
Whence one seeth, with amaze,
Mammon in the mountain blaze.

FAUST

How strangely glimmers through the hollows
A dreary light, like that of dawn!
Its exhalation tracks and follows
The deepest gorges, faint and wan.
Here steam, there rolling vapor sweepeth;
Here burns the glow through film and haze:
Now like a tender thread it creepeth,
Now like a fountain leaps and plays.
Here winds away, and in a hundred
Divided veins the valley braids:
There, in a corner pressed and sundered,
Itself detaches, spreads and fades.
Here gush the sparkles incandescent
Like scattered showers of golden sand;--
But, see! in all their height, at present,
The rocky ramparts blazing stand.

[Illustration: _Under the old ribs of the rock retreating_,]

MEPHISTOPHELES

Has not Sir Mammon grandly lighted
His palace for this festal night?
'Tis lucky thou hast seen the sight;
The boisterous guests approach that were invited.

FAUST

How raves the tempest through the air!
With what fierce blows upon my neck 'tis beating!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Under the old ribs of the rock retreating,
Hold fast, lest thou be hurled down the abysses there!
The night with the mist is black;
Hark! how the forests grind and crack!
Frightened, the owlets are scattered:
Hearken! the pillars are shattered.
The evergreen palaces shaking!
Boughs are groaning and breaking,
The tree-trunks terribly thunder,
The roots are twisting asunder!
In frightfully intricate crashing
Each on the other is dashing,
And over the wreck-strewn gorges
The tempest whistles and surges!
Hear'st thou voices higher ringing?
Far away, or nearer singing?
Yes, the mountain's side along,
Sweeps an infuriate glamouring song!

WITCHES (_in chorus_)

     The witches ride to the Brocken's top,
     The stubble is yellow, and green the crop.
     There gathers the crowd for carnival:
     Sir Urian sits over all.

     And so they go over stone and stock;
     The witch she-----s, and-----s the buck.

A VOICE

     Alone, old Baubo's coming now;
     She rides upon a farrow-sow.

CHORUS

     Then honor to whom the honor is due!
     Dame Baubo first, to lead the crew!
     A tough old sow and the mother thereon,
     Then follow the witches, every one.

A VOICE

Which way com'st thou hither?

VOICE

O'er the Ilsen-stone.
I peeped at the owl in her nest alone:
How she stared and glared!

VOICE

Betake thee to Hell!
Why so fast and so fell?

VOICE

She has scored and has flayed me:
See the wounds she has made me!

WITCHES (_chorus_)

     The way is wide, the way is long:
     See, what a wild and crazy throng!
     The broom it scratches, the fork it thrusts,
     The child is stifled, the mother bursts.
WIZARDS (_semichorus_)

     As doth the snail in shell, we crawl:
     Before us go the women all.
     When towards the Devil's House we tread,
     Woman's a thousand steps ahead.

OTHER SEMICHORUS

     We do not measure with such care:
     Woman in thousand steps is theft.
     But howsoe'er she hasten may,
     Man in one leap has cleared the way.

VOICE (_from above_)

Come on, come on, from Rocky Lake!

VOICE (_from below_)

Aloft we'd fain ourselves betake.
We've washed, and are bright as ever you will,
Yet we're eternally sterile still.

BOTH CHORUSES

     The wind is hushed, the star shoots by.
     The dreary moon forsakes the sky;
     The magic notes, like spark on spark,
     Drizzle, whistling through the dark.

VOICE (_from below_)

Halt, there! Ho, there!

VOICE (_from above_)

Who calls from the rocky cleft below there?

VOICE (_below_)

Take me, too! take me, too!
I'm climbing now three hundred years,
And yet the summit cannot see:
Among my equals I would be.

BOTH CHORUSES

     Bears the broom and bears the stock,
     Bears the fork and bears the buck:
     Who cannot raise himself to-night
     Is evermore a ruined wight.

HALF-WITCH (_below_)

So long I stumble, ill bestead,
And the others are now so far ahead!
At home I've neither rest nor cheer,
And yet I cannot gain them here.

CHORUS OF WITCHES

     To cheer the witch will salve avail;
     A rag will answer for a sail;
     Each trough a goodly ship supplies;
     He ne'er will fly, who now not flies.

BOTH CHORUSES

     When round the summit whirls our flight,
     Then lower, and on the ground alight;
     And far and wide the heather press
     With witchhood's swarms of wantonness!

(_They settle down_.)

MEPHISTOPHELES

They crowd and push, they roar and clatter!
They whirl and whistle, pull and chatter!
They shine, and spirt, and stink, and burn!
The true witch-element we learn.
Keep close! or we are parted, in our turn,
Where art thou?

FAUST (_in the distance_)

Here!

MEPHISTOPHELES

What! whirled so far astray?
Then house-right I must use, and clear the way.
Make room! Squire Voland comes! Room, gentle rabble,
room!

Here, Doctor, hold to me: in one jump we'll resume
An easier space, and from the crowd be free:
It's too much, even for the like of me.
Yonder, with special light, there's something shining clearer
Within those bushes; I've a mind to see.
Come on! we'll slip a little nearer.

FAUST

Spirit of Contradiction! On! I'll follow straight.
'Tis planned most wisely, if I judge aright:
We climb the Brocken's top in the Walpurgis-Night,
That arbitrarily, here, ourselves we isolate.

MEPHISTOPHELES

But see, what motley flames among the heather!
There is a lively club together:
In smaller circles one is not alone.

FAUST

Better the summit, I must own:
There fire and whirling smoke I see.
They seek the Evil One in wild confusion:
Many enigmas there might find solution.

MEPHISTOPHELES

But there enigmas also knotted be.
Leave to the multitude their riot!
Here will we house ourselves in quiet.
It is an old, transmitted trade,
That in the greater world the little worlds are made.
I see stark-nude young witches congregate,
And old ones, veiled and hidden shrewdly:
On my account be kind, nor treat them rudely!
The trouble's small, the fun is great.
I hear the noise of instruments attuning,--
Vile din! yet one must learn to bear the crooning.
Come, come along! It _must_ be, I declare!
I'll go ahead and introduce thee there,
Thine obligation newly earning.
That is no little space: what say'st thou, friend?
Look yonder! thou canst scarcely see the end:
A hundred fires along the ranks are burning.
They dance, they chat, they cook, they drink, they court:
Now where, just tell me, is there better sport?

FAUST

Wilt thou, to introduce us to the revel,
Assume the part of wizard or of devil?

MEPHISTOPHELES

I'm mostly used, 'tis true, to go incognito,
But on a gala-day one may his orders show.
The Garter does not deck my suit,
But honored and at home is here the cloven foot.
Perceiv'st thou yonder snail? It cometh, slow and steady;
So delicately its feelers pry,
That it hath scented me already:
I cannot here disguise me, if I try.
But come! we'll go from this fire to a newer:
I am the go-between, and thou the wooer.

(_To some, who are sitting around dying embers_:)

Old gentlemen, why at the outskirts? Enter!
I'd praise you if I found you snugly in the centre,
With youth and revel round you like a zone:
You each, at home, are quite enough alone.

GENERAL

Say, who would put his trust in nations,
Howe'er for them one may have worked and planned?
For with the people, as with women,
Youth always has the upper hand.

MINISTER

They're now too far from what is just and sage.
I praise the old ones, not unduly:
When we were all-in-all, then, truly,
_Then_ was the real golden age.

PARVENU

We also were not stupid, either,
And what we should not, often did;
But now all things have from their bases slid,
Just as we meant to hold them fast together.

AUTHOR

Who, now, a work of moderate sense will read?
Such works are held as antiquate and mossy;
And as regards the younger folk, indeed,
They never yet have been so pert and saucy.

MEPHISTOPHELES

(_who all at once appears very old_)

I feel that men are ripe for Judgment-Day,
Now for the last time I've the witches'-hill ascended:
Since to the lees _my_ cask is drained away,
The world's, as well, must soon be ended.

HUCKSTER-WITCH

Ye gentlemen, don't pass me thus!
Let not the chance neglected be!
Behold my wares attentively:
The stock is rare and various.
And yet, there's nothing I've collected--
No shop, on earth, like this you'll find!--
Which has not, once, sore hurt inflicted
Upon the world, and on mankind.
No dagger's here, that set not blood to flowing;
No cup, that hath not once, within a healthy frame
Poured speedy death, in poison glowing:
No gems, that have not brought a maid to shame;
No sword, but severed ties for the unwary,
Or from behind struck down the adversary.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Gossip! the times thou badly comprehendest:
What's done has happed--what haps, is done!
'Twere better if for novelties thou sendest:
By such alone can we be won.

FAUST

Let me not lose myself in all this pother!
This is a fair, as never was another!

MEPHISTOPHELES

The whirlpool swirls to get above:
Thou'rt shoved thyself, imagining to shove.

FAUST

But who is that?

MEPHISTOPHELES

Note her especially,
Tis Lilith.

FAUST

Who?

MEPHISTOPHELES

Adam's first wife is she.
Beware the lure within her lovely tresses,
The splendid sole adornment of her hair!
When she succeeds therewith a youth to snare,
Not soon again she frees him from her jesses.

FAUST

Those two, the old one with the young one sitting,
They've danced already more than fitting.

MEPHISTOPHELES

No rest to-night for young or old!
They start another dance: come now, let us take hold!

FAUST (_dancing with the young witch_)

     A lovely dream once came to me;
     I then beheld an apple-tree,
     And there two fairest apples shone:
     They lured me so, I climbed thereon.

THE FAIR ONE

     Apples have been desired by you,
     Since first in Paradise they grew;
     And I am moved with joy, to know
     That such within my garden grow.

MEPHISTOPHELES (_dancing with the old one_)

     A dissolute dream once came to me:
     Therein I saw a cloven tree,
     Which had a-----------------;
     Yet,-----as 'twas, I fancied it.

THE OLD ONE

     I offer here my best salute
     Unto the knight with cloven foot!
     Let him a-----------prepare,
     If him------------------does not scare.

PROKTOPHANTASMIST

Accurséd folk! How dare you venture thus?
Had you not, long since, demonstration
That ghosts can't stand on ordinary foundation?
And now you even dance, like one of us!

THE FAIR ONE (_dancing_)

Why does he come, then, to our ball?

FAUST (_dancing_)

O, everywhere on him you fall!
When others dance, he weighs the matter:
If he can't every step bechatter,
Then 'tis the same as were the step not made;
But if you forwards go, his ire is most displayed.
If you would whirl in regular gyration
As he does in his dull old mill,
He'd show, at any rate, good-will,--
Especially if you heard and heeded his hortation.

PROKTOPHANTASMIST

You still are here? Nay, 'tis a thing unheard!
Vanish, at once! We've said the enlightening word.
The pack of devils by no rules is daunted:
We are so wise, and yet is Tegel haunted.
To clear the folly out, how have I swept and stirred!
Twill ne'er be clean: why, 'tis a thing unheard!

THE FAIR ONE

Then cease to bore us at our ball!

PROKTOPHANTASMIST

I tell you, spirits, to your face,
I give to spirit-despotism no place;
My spirit cannot practise it at all.

(_The dance continues_)

Naught will succeed, I see, amid such revels;
Yet something from a tour I always save,
And hope, before my last step to the grave,
To overcome the poets and the devils.

MEPHISTOPHELES

He now will seat him in the nearest puddle;
The solace this, whereof he's most assured:
And when upon his rump the leeches hang and fuddle,
He'll be of spirits and of Spirit cured.

(_To_ FAUST, _who has left the dance_:)

Wherefore forsakest thou the lovely maiden,
That in the dance so sweetly sang?

FAUST

Ah! in the midst of it there sprang
A red mouse from her mouth--sufficient reason.

MEPHISTOPHELES

That's nothing! One must not so squeamish be;
So the mouse was not gray, enough for thee.
Who'd think of that in love's selected season?

FAUST

Then saw I--.

MEPHISTOPHELES

What?

FAUST

Mephisto, seest thou there,
Alone and far, a girl most pale and fair?
She falters on, her way scarce knowing,
As if with fettered feet that stay her going.
I must confess, it seems to me
As if my kindly Margaret were she.

MEPHISTOPHELES

Let the thing be! All thence have evil drawn:
It is a magic shape, a lifeless eidolon.
Such to encounter is not good:
Their blank, set stare benumbs the human blood,
And one is almost turned to stone.
Medusa's tale to thee is known.

FAUST

Forsooth, the eyes they are of one whom, dying,
No hand with loving pressure closed;
That is the breast whereon I once was lying,--
The body sweet, beside which I reposed!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Tis magic all, thou fool, seduced so easily!
Unto each man his love she seems to be.

FAUST

The woe, the rapture, so ensnare me,
That from her gaze I cannot tear me!
And, strange! around her fairest throat
A single scarlet band is gleaming,
No broader than a knife-blade seeming!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Quite right! The mark I also note.
Her head beneath her arm she'll sometimes carry;
Twas Perseus lopped it, her old adversary.
Thou crav'st the same illusion still!
Come, let us mount this little hill;
The Prater shows no livelier stir,
And, if they've not bewitched my sense,
I verily see a theatre.
What's going on?

SERVIBILIS
                 'Twill shortly recommence:
A new performance--'tis the last of seven.
To give that number is the custom here:
'Twas by a Dilettante written,
And Dilettanti in the parts appear.
That now I vanish, pardon, I entreat you!
As Dilettante I the curtain raise.

MEPHISTOPHELES
When I upon the Blocksberg meet you,
I find it good: for that's your proper place.


[Illustration]

[Illustration]




XXII


WALPURGIS-NIGHT'S DREAM

OBERON AND TITANIA's GOLDEN WEDDING

INTERMEZZO

MANAGER

Sons of Mieding, rest to-day!
Needless your machinery:
Misty vale and mountain gray,
That is all the scenery.

HERALD

That the wedding golden be.
Must fifty years be rounded:
But _the Golden_ give to me,
When the strife's compounded.

OBERON

Spirits, if you're here, be seen--
Show yourselves, delighted!
Fairy king and fairy queen,
They are newly plighted.

PUCK

Cometh Puck, and, light of limb,
Whisks and whirls in measure:
Come a hundred after him,
To share with him the pleasure.

ARIEL

Ariel's song is heavenly-pure,
His tones are sweet and rare ones:
Though ugly faces he allure,
Yet he allures the fair ones.

OBERON

Spouses, who would fain agree,
Learn how we were mated!
If your pairs would loving be,
First be separated!

TITANIA

If her whims the wife control,
And the man berate her,
Take him to the Northern Pole,
And her to the Equator!

ORCHESTRA. TUTTI.

_Fortissimo_.

Snout of fly, mosquito-bill,
And kin of all conditions,
Frog in grass, and cricket-trill,--
These are the musicians!

SOLO

See the bagpipe on our track!
'Tis the soap-blown bubble:
Hear the _schnecke-schnicke-schnack_
Through his nostrils double!

SPIRIT, JUST GROWING INTO FORM

Spider's foot and paunch of toad,
And little wings--we know 'em!
A little creature 'twill not be,
But yet, a little poem.

A LITTLE COUPLE

Little step and lofty leap
Through honey-dew and fragrance:
You'll never mount the airy steep
With all your tripping vagrance.

INQUISITIVE TRAVELLER

Is't but masquerading play?
See I with precision?
Oberon, the beauteous fay,
Meets, to-night, my vision!

ORTHODOX

Not a claw, no tail I see!
And yet, beyond a cavil,
Like "the Gods of Greece," must he
Also be a devil.

NORTHERN ARTIST

I only seize, with sketchy air,
Some outlines of the tourney;
Yet I betimes myself prepare
For my Italian journey.

PURIST

My bad luck brings me here, alas!
How roars the orgy louder!
And of the witches in the mass,
But only two wear powder.

YOUNG WITCH

Powder becomes, like petticoat,
A gray and wrinkled noddy;
So I sit naked on my goat,
And show a strapping body.

MATRON

We've too much tact and policy
To rate with gibes a scolder;
Yet, young and tender though you be,
I hope to see you moulder.

LEADER OF THE BAND

Fly-snout and mosquito-bill,
Don't swarm so round the Naked!
Frog in grass and cricket-trill,
Observe the time, and make it!

WEATHERCOCK (_towards one side_)

Society to one's desire!
Brides only, and the sweetest!
And bachelors of youth and fire.
And prospects the completest!

WEATHERCOCK (_towards the other side_)

And if the Earth don't open now
To swallow up each ranter,
Why, then will I myself, I vow,
Jump into hell instanter!

XENIES

Us as little insects see!
With sharpest nippers flitting,
That our Papa Satan we
May honor as is fitting.

HENNINGS

How, in crowds together massed,
They are jesting, shameless!
They will even say, at last,
That their hearts are blameless.

MUSAGETES

Among this witches' revelry
His way one gladly loses;
And, truly, it would easier be
Than to command the Muses.

CI-DEVANT GENIUS OF THE AGE

The proper folks one's talents laud:
Come on, and none shall pass us!
The Blocksberg has a summit broad,
Like Germany's Parnassus.

INQUISITIVE TRAVELLER

Say, who's the stiff and pompous man?
He walks with haughty paces:
He snuffles all he snuffle can:
"He scents the Jesuits' traces."

CRANE

Both clear and muddy streams, for me
Are good to fish and sport in:
And thus the pious man you see
With even devils consorting.

WORLDLING

Yes, for the pious, I suspect,
All instruments are fitting;
And on the Blocksberg they erect
Full many a place of meeting.

DANCER

A newer chorus now succeeds!
I hear the distant drumming.
"Don't be disturbed! 'tis, in the reeds,
The bittern's changeless booming."

DANCING-MASTER

How each his legs in nimble trip
Lifts up, and makes a clearance!
The crooked jump, the heavy skip,
Nor care for the appearance.

GOOD FELLOW

The rabble by such hate are held,
To maim and slay delights them:
As Orpheus' lyre the brutes compelled,
The bagpipe here unites them.

DOGMATIST

I'll not be led by any lure
Of doubts or critic-cavils:
The Devil must be something, sure,--
Or how should there be devils?

IDEALIST

This once, the fancy wrought in me
Is really too despotic:
Forsooth, if I am all I see,
I must be idiotic!

REALIST

This racking fuss on every hand,
It gives me great vexation;
And, for the first time, here I stand
On insecure foundation.

SUPERNATURALIST

With much delight I see the play,
And grant to these their merits,
Since from the devils I also may
Infer the better spirits.

SCEPTIC

The flame they follow, on and on,
And think they're near the treasure:
But _Devil_ rhymes with _Doubt_ alone,
So I am here with pleasure.

LEADER OF THE BAND

Frog in green, and cricket-trill.
Such dilettants!--perdition!
Fly-snout and mosquito-bill,--
Each one's a fine musician!

THE ADROIT

_Sans souci_, we call the clan
Of merry creatures so, then;
Go a-foot no more we can,
And on our heads we go, then.

THE AWKWARD

Once many a bit we sponged, but now,
God help us! that is done with:
Our shoes are all danced out, we trow,
We've but naked soles to run with.

WILL-O'-THE WISPS

From the marshes we appear,
Where we originated;
Yet in the ranks, at once, we're here
As glittering gallants rated.

SHOOTING-STAR

Darting hither from the sky,
In star and fire light shooting,
Cross-wise now in grass I lie:
Who'll help me to my footing?

THE HEAVY FELLOWS

Room! and round about us, room!
Trodden are the grasses:
Spirits also, spirits come,
And they are bulky masses.

PUCK

Enter not so stall-fed quite,
Like elephant-calves about one!
And the heaviest weight to-night
Be Puck, himself, the stout one!

ARIEL

If loving Nature at your back,
Or Mind, the wings uncloses,
Follow up my airy track
To the mount of roses!

ORCHESTRA

_pianissimo_
Cloud and trailing mist o'erhead
Are now illuminated:
Air in leaves, and wind in reed,
And all is dissipated.

[Illustration]




XXIII


DREARY DAY

A FIELD

FAUST MEPHISTOPHELES

FAUST

In misery! In despair! Long wretchedly astray on the face of the earth,
and now imprisoned! That gracious, ill-starred creature shut in a
dungeon as a criminal, and given up to fearful torments! To this has it
come! to this!--Treacherous, contemptible spirit, and thou hast
concealed it from me!--Stand, then,--stand! Roll the devilish eyes
wrathfully in thy head! Stand and defy me with thine intolerable
presence! Imprisoned! In irretrievable misery! Delivered up to evil
spirits, and to condemning, unfeeling Man! And thou hast lulled me,
meanwhile, with the most insipid dissipations, hast concealed from me
her increasing wretchedness, and suffered her to go helplessly to ruin!
[Illustration: _Roll the devilish eyes wrathfully in thy head_]


MEPHISTOPHELES

She is not the first.

FAUST

Dog! Abominable monster! Transform him, thou Infinite Spirit! transform
the reptile again into his dog-shape? in which it pleased him often at
night to scamper on before me, to roll himself at the feet of the
unsuspecting wanderer, and hang upon his shoulders when he fell!
Transform him again into his favorite likeness, that he may crawl upon
his belly in the dust before me,--that I may trample him, the outlawed,
under foot! Not the first! O woe! woe which no human soul can grasp,
that more than one being should sink into the depths of this
misery,--that the first, in its writhing death-agony under the eyes of
the Eternal Forgiver, did not expiate the guilt of all others! The
misery of this single one pierces to the very marrow of my life; and
thou art calmly grinning at the fate of thousands!

MEPHISTOPHELES

Now we are already again at the end of our wits, where the understanding
of you men runs wild. Why didst thou enter into fellowship with us, if
thou canst not carry it out? Wilt fly, and art not secure against
dizziness? Did we thrust ourselves upon thee, or thou thyself upon us?

FAUST

Gnash not thus thy devouring teeth at me? It fills me with horrible
disgust. Mighty, glorious Spirit, who hast vouchsafed to me Thine
apparition, who knowest my heart and my soul, why fetter me to the
felon-comrade, who feeds on mischief and gluts himself with ruin?

MEPHISTOPHELES

Hast thou done?

FAUST

Rescue her, or woe to thee! The fearfullest curse be upon thee for
thousands of ages!

MEPHISTOPHELES

I cannot loosen the bonds of the Avenger, nor undo his bolts. Rescue
her? Who was it that plunged her into ruin? I, or thou?

(FAUST _looks around wildly_.)

Wilt thou grasp the thunder? Well that it has not been given to you,
miserable mortals! To crush to pieces the innocent respondent--that is
the tyrant-fashion of relieving one's self in embarrassments.

FAUST

Take me thither! She shall be free!

MEPHISTOPHELES

And the danger to which thou wilt expose thyself? Know that the guilt of
blood, from thy hand, still lies upon the town! Avenging spirits hover
over the spot where the victim fell, and lie in wait for the returning
murderer.

FAUST

That, too, from thee? Murder and death of a world upon thee, monster!
Take me thither, I say, and liberate her!

MEPHISTOPHELES

I will convey thee there; and hear, what I can do! Have I all the power
in Heaven and on Earth? I will becloud the jailer's senses: get
possession of the key, and lead her forth with human hand! I will keep
watch: the magic steeds are ready, I will carry you off. So much is in
my power.

FAUST

Up and away!

[Illustration]




XXIV


NIGHT

OPEN FIELD

(FAUST _and_ MEPHISTOPHELES _speeding onward on black horses_.)


FAUST

What weave they there round the raven-stone?


MEPHISTOPHELES

I know not what they are brewing and doing.


FAUST

Soaring up, sweeping down, bowing and bending!


MEPHISTOPHELES

A witches'-guild.


FAUST

They scatter, devote and doom!


MEPHISTOPHELES

On! on!

[Illustration]




XXV


DUNGEON

FAUST

(_with a bunch of keys and a lamp, before an iron door_)

A shudder, long unfelt, comes o'er me;
Mankind's collected woe o'erwhelms me, here.
She dwells within the dark, damp walls before me,
And all her crime was a delusion dear!
What! I delay to free her?
I dread, once again to see her?
On! my shrinking but lingers Death more near.

(_He grasps the lock: the sound of singing is heard inside_.)

     _My mother, the harlot,
     Who put me to death;
     My father, the varlet,
     Who eaten me hath!
     Little sister, so good,
     Laid my bones in the wood,
     In the damp moss and clay:_
     _Then was I a beautiful bird o' the wood;
     Fly away! Fly away_!

FAUST _(unlocking)_

She does not dream her lover listens near;
That he the rattling chain, the rustling straw, can hear.

_(He enters_.)

MARGARET (_hiding herself on the pallet_)
Woe! woe! They come. O death of bitterness!

FAUST (_whispering_)
Hush! hush! The hour is come that frees thee.

MARGARET (_throwing herself before him_)
Art thou a man, then pity my distress!

FAUST
Thy cries will wake the guards, and they will seize thee!
(_He takes hold of the fetters to unlock them_.)

MARGARET (_on her knees_)

Who, headsman! unto thee such power
Over me could give?
Thou'rt come for me at midnight-hour:
Have mercy on me, let me live!
Is't not soon enough when morning chime has run?

(_She rises_.)

And I am yet so young, so young!
And now Death comes, and ruin!
I, too, was fair, and that was my undoing.
My love was near, but now he's far;
Torn lies the wreath, scattered the blossoms are.
Seize me not thus so violently!
Spare me! What have I done to thee?
Let me not vainly entreat thee!
I never chanced, in all my days, to meet thee!


FAUST

Shall I outlive this misery?


MARGARET

Now am I wholly in thy might.
But let me suckle, first, my baby!
I blissed it all this livelong night;
They took 't away, to vex me, maybe,
And now they say I killed the child outright.
And never shall I be glad again.
They sing songs about me! 'tis bad of the folk to do it!
There's an old story has the same refrain;
Who bade them so construe it?


FAUST (_falling upon his knees_)

Here lieth one who loves thee ever,
The thraldom of thy woe to sever.


MARGARET (_flinging herself beside him_)

O let us kneel, and call the Saints to hide us!
Under the steps beside us,
The threshold under,
Hell heaves in thunder!
The Evil One
With terrible wrath
Seeketh a path
His prey to discover!

FAUST (_aloud_)

Margaret! Margaret!


MARGARET (_attentively listening_)

That was the voice of my lover!

(_She springs to her feet: the fetters fall off_.)

Where is he? I heard him call me.
I am free! No one shall enthrall me.
To his neck will I fly,
On his bosom lie!
On the threshold he stood, and _Margaret_! calling,
Midst of Hell's howling and noises appalling,
Midst of the wrathful, infernal derision,
I knew the sweet sound of the voice of the vision!


FAUST

'Tis I!

MARGARET

      'Tis thou! O, say it once again!

    (_Clasping him_.)

'Tis he! 'tis he! Where now is all my pain?
The anguish of the dungeon, and the chain?
'Tis thou! Thou comest to save me,
And I am saved!--
Again the street I see
Where first I looked on thee;
And the garden, brightly blooming,
Where I and Martha wait thy coming.


FAUST (_struggling to leave_)

Come! Come with me!


MARGARET

                    Delay, now!
So fain I stay, when thou delayest!

  (_Caressing him_.)


FAUST

Away, now!
If longer here thou stayest,
We shall be made to dearly rue it.

MARGARET

Kiss me!--canst no longer do it?
My friend, so short a time thou'rt missing,
And hast unlearned thy kissing?
Why is my heart so anxious, on thy breast?
Where once a heaven thy glances did create me,
A heaven thy loving words expressed,
And thou didst kiss, as thou wouldst suffocate me--
Kiss me!
Or I'll kiss thee!

(_She embraces him_.)

Ah, woe! thy lips are chill,
And still.
How changed in fashion
Thy passion!
Who has done me this ill?

(_She turns away from him_.)

FAUST

Come, follow me! My darling, be more bold:
I'll clasp thee, soon, with warmth a thousand-fold;
But follow now! 'Tis all I beg of thee.

MARGARET (_turning to him_)

And is it thou? Thou, surely, certainly?

FAUST

'Tis I! Come on!

MARGARET

Thou wilt unloose my chain,
And in thy lap wilt take me once again.
How comes it that thou dost not shrink from me?--
Say, dost thou know, my friend, whom thou mak'st free?

FAUST

Come! come! The night already vanisheth.


MARGARET

My mother have I put to death;
I've drowned the baby born to thee.
Was it not given to thee and me?
Thee, too!--'Tis thou! It scarcely true doth seem--
Give me thy hand! 'Tis not a dream!
Thy dear, dear hand!--But, ah, 'tis wet!
Why, wipe it off! Methinks that yet
There's blood thereon.
Ah, God! what hast thou done?
Nay, sheathe thy sword at last!
Do not affray me!


FAUST

O, let the past be past!
Thy words will slay me!


MARGARET

No, no! Thou must outlive us.
Now I'll tell thee the graves to give us:
Thou must begin to-morrow
The work of sorrow!
The best place give to my mother,
Then close at her side my brother,
And me a little away,
But not too very far, I pray!
And here, on my right breast, my baby lay!
Nobody else will lie beside me!--
Ah, within thine arms to hide me,
That was a sweet and a gracious bliss,
But no more, no more can I attain it!
I would force myself on thee and constrain it,
And it seems thou repellest my kiss:
And yet 'tis thou, so good, so kind to see!


FAUST

If thou feel'st it is I, then come with me!


MARGARET

Out yonder?


FAUST

To freedom.


MARGARET

  If the grave is there,
Death lying in wait, then come!
From here to eternal rest:
No further step--no, no!
Thou goest away! O Henry, if I could go!


FAUST

Thou canst! Just will it! Open stands the door.


MARGARET

I dare not go: there's no hope any more.
Why should I fly? They'll still my steps waylay!
It is so wretched, forced to beg my living,
And a bad conscience sharper misery giving!
It is so wretched, to be strange, forsaken,
And I'd still be followed and taken!


FAUST

I'll stay with thee.


MARGARET

Be quick! Be quick!
Save thy perishing child!
Away! Follow the ridge
Up by the brook,

[Illustration: _=If the grave is there,
Death lying in wait, then come=_!]

Over the bridge,
Into the wood,
To the left, where the plank is placed
In the pool!
Seize it in haste!
'Tis trying to rise,
'Tis struggling still!
Save it! Save it!


FAUST

Recall thy wandering will!
One step, and thou art free at last!


MARGARET

If the mountain we had only passed!
There sits my mother upon a stone,--
I feel an icy shiver!
There sits my mother upon a stone,
And her head is wagging ever.
She beckons, she nods not, her heavy head falls o'er;
She slept so long that she wakes no more.
She slept, while we were caressing:
Ah, those were the days of blessing!


FAUST

Here words and prayers are nothing worth;
I'll venture, then, to bear thee forth.


MARGARET

No--let me go! I'll suffer no force!
Grasp me not so murderously!
I've done, else, all things for the love of thee.


FAUST

The day dawns: Dearest! Dearest!

MARGARET

Day? Yes, the day comes,--the last day breaks for me!
My wedding-day it was to be!
Tell no one thou has been with Margaret!
Woe for my garland! The chances
Are over--'tis all in vain!
We shall meet once again,
But not at the dances!
The crowd is thronging, no word is spoken:
The square below
And the streets overflow:
The death-bell tolls, the wand is broken.
I am seized, and bound, and delivered--
Shoved to the block--they give the sign!
Now over each neck has quivered
The blade that is quivering over mine.
Dumb lies the world like the grave!

FAUST

O had I ne'er been born!

MEPHISTOPHELES (_appears outside_)

Off! or you're lost ere morn.
Useless talking, delaying and praying!
My horses are neighing:
The morning twilight is near.

MARGARET

What rises up from the threshold here?
He! he! suffer him not!
What does he want in this holy spot?
He seeks me!


FAUST

Thou shalt live.

MARGARET

Judgment of God! myself to thee I give.


MEPHISTOPHELES (_to_ FAUST)

Come! or I'll leave her in the lurch, and thee!


MARGARET

Thine am I, Father! rescue me!
Ye angels, holy cohorts, guard me,
Camp around, and from evil ward me!
Henry! I shudder to think of thee.


MEPHISTOPHELES

She is judged!


VOICE (_from above_)

         She is saved!


MEPHISTOPHELES (_to_ FAUST)

                     Hither to me!

(_He disappears with_ FAUST.)


VOICE (_from within, dying away_)

Henry! Henry!






ACT I



SCENE I.--Soldiers and Citizens (with cross-bows)

Jetter (steps forward, and bends his cross-bow). Soest, Buyck, Ruysum

Soest. Come, shoot away, and have done with it! You won't beat me! Three
black rings, you never made such a shot in all your life. And so I'm
master for this year.

Jetter. Master and king to boot; who envies you? You'll have to pay
double reckoning; 'tis only fair you should pay for your dexterity.

Buyck. Jetter, I'll buy your shot, share the prize, and treat the
company. I have already been here so long, and am a debtor for so many
civilities. If I miss, then it shall be as if you had shot.

Soest. I ought to have a voice, for in fact I am the loser. No matter!
Come, Buyck, shoot away.

Buyck (shoots). Now, corporal, look out!--One! Two! Three! Four!

Soest. Four rings! So be it!

All. Hurrah! Long live the King! Hurrah! Hurrah!

Buyck. Thanks, sirs, master even were too much! Thanks for the honour.

Jetter. You have no one to thank but yourself. Ruysum. Let me tell you--

Soest. How now, grey-beard?

Ruysum. Let me tell you!--He shoots like his master, he shoots like
Egmont.

Buyck. Compared with him I am only a bungler. He aims with the rifle
as no one else does. Not only when he's lucky or in the vein; no! he
levels, and the bull's-eye is pierced. I have learned from him. He were
indeed a blockhead, who could serve under him and learn nothing!--But,
sirs, let us not forget! A king maintains his followers; and so, wine
here, at the king's charge!

Jetter. We have agreed among ourselves that each--

Buyck. I am a foreigner, and a king, and care not a jot for your laws
and customs.

Jetter. Why, you are worse than the Spaniard, who has not yet ventured
to meddle with them.

Ruysum. What does he say?

Soest (loud to Ruysum). He wants to treat us; he will not hear of our
clubbing together, the king paying only a double share.

Ruysum. Let him! under protest, however! 'Tis his master's fashion, too,
to be munificent, and to let the money flow in a good cause. (Wine is
brought.)

All. Here's to his Majesty! Hurrah!

Jetter (to Buyck). That means your Majesty, of course, Buyck. My hearty
thanks, if it be so.

Soest. Assuredly! A Netherlander does not find it easy to drink the
health of his Spanish majesty from his heart.

Ruysum. Who?

Soest (aloud). Philip the Second, King of Spain.

Ruysum. Our most gracious king and master! Long life to him.

Soest. Did you not like his father, Charles the Fifth, better?

Ruysum. God bless him! He was a king indeed! His hand reached over the
whole earth, and he was all in all. Yet, when he met you, he'd greet you
just as one neighbour greets another,--and if you were frightened, he
knew so well how to put you at your ease--ay, you understand me--he
walked out, rode out, just as it came into his head, with very few
followers. We all wept when he resigned the government here to his son.
You understand me--he is another sort of man, he's more majestic.

Jetter. When he was here, he never appeared in public, except in pomp
and royal state. He speaks little, they say.

Soest. He is no king for us Netherlanders. Our princes must be joyous
and free like ourselves, must live and let live. We will neither be
despised nor oppressed, good-natured fools though we be.

Jetter. The king, methinks, were a gracious sovereign enough, if he had
only better counsellors.

Soest. No, no! He has no affection for us Netherlanders; he has no
heart for the people; he loves us not; how then can we love him? Why
is everybody so fond of Count Egmont? Why are we all so devoted to
him? Why, because one can read in his face that he loves us; because
joyousness, open-heartedness, and good-nature, speak in his eyes;
because he possesses nothing that he does not share with him who needs
it, ay, and with him who needs it not. Long live Count Egmont! Buyck, it
is for you to give the first toast; give us your master's health.

Buyck. With all my heart; here's to Count Egmont! Hurrah!

Ruysum Conqueror of St. Quintin.

Buyck. The hero of Gravelines.

All. Hurrah!

Ruysum. St. Quintin was my last battle. I was hardly able to crawl
along, and could with difficulty carry my heavy rifle. I managed,
notwithstanding, to singe the skin of the French once more, and, as a
parting gift, received a grazing shot in my right leg.

Buyck. Gravelines! Ha, my friends, we had sharp work of it there!
The victory was all our own. Did not those French dogs carry fire and
desolation into the very heart of Flanders? We gave it them, however!
The old hard-listed veterans held out bravely for a while, but we pushed
on, fired away, and laid about us, till they made wry faces, and their
lines gave way. Then Egmont's horse was shot under him; and for a long
time we fought pell-mell, man to man, horse to horse, troop to troop,
on the broad, flat, sea-sand. Suddenly, as if from heaven, down came
the cannon shot from the mouth of the river, bang, bang, right into
the midst of the French. These were English, who, under Admiral Malin,
happened to be sailing past from Dunkirk. They did not help us much,
'tis true; they could only approach with their smallest vessels, and
that not near enough;--besides, their shot fell sometimes among our
troops. It did some good, however! It broke the French lines, and raised
our courage. Away it went. Helter-skelter! topsy-turvy! all struck
dead, or forced into the water; the fellows were drowned the moment
they tasted the water, while we Hollanders dashed in after them. Being
amphibious, we were as much in our element as frogs, and hacked away
at the enemy, and shot them down as if they had been ducks. The few
who struggled through, were struck dead in their flight by the peasant
women, armed with hoes and pitchforks. His Gallic majesty was compelled
at once to hold out his paw and make peace. And that peace you owe to
us, to the great Egmont.

All. Hurrah, for the great Egmont! Hurrah! Hurrah!

Jetter. Had they but appointed him Regent, instead of Margaret of Parma!

Soest. Not so! Truth is truth! I'll not hear Margaret abused. Now it is
my turn. Long live our gracious lady!

All. Long life to her!

Soest. Truly, there are excellent women in that family. Long live the
Regent!

Jetter. Prudent is she, and moderate in all she does; if she would only
not hold so fast and stiffly with the priests. It is partly her fault,
too, that we have the fourteen new mitres in the land. Of what use are
they, I should like to know? Why, that foreigners may be shoved into the
good benefices, where formerly abbots were chosen out of the chapters!
And we're to believe it's for the sake of religion. We know better.
Three bishops were enough for us; things went on decently and reputably.
Now each must busy himself as if he were needed; and this gives rise
every moment to dissensions and ill-will. And the more you agitate the
matter, so much the worse it grows. (They drink.)

Soest. But it was the will of the king; she cannot alter it, one way or
another.

Jetter. Then we may not even sing the new psalms; but ribald songs,
as many as we please. And why? There is heresy in them, they say, and
heaven knows what. I have sung some of them, however; they are new, to
be sure, but I see no harm in them.

Buyck. Ask their leave, forsooth! In our province, we sing just what
we please. That's because Count Egmont is our stadtholder, who does not
trouble himself about such matters. In Ghent, Ypres, and throughout the
whole of Flanders, anybody sings them that chooses. (Aloud to Ruysum.)
There is nothing more harmless than a spiritual song--Is there, father?

Ruysum. What, indeed! It is a godly work, and truly edifying.

Jetter. They say, however, that they are not of the right sort, not of
their sort, and, since it is dangerous, we had better leave them alone.
The officers of the Inquisition are always lurking and spying about;
many an honest fellow has already fallen into their clutches. They had
not gone so far as to meddle with conscience! If they will not allow
me to do what I like, they might at least let me think and sing as I
please.

Soest. The Inquisition won't do here. We are not made like the
Spaniards, to let our consciences be tyrannized over. The nobles must
look to it, and clip its wings betimes.

Jetter. It is a great bore. Whenever it comes into their worships' heads
to break into my house, and I am sitting there at my work, humming a
French psalm, thinking nothing about it, neither good nor bad--singing
it just because it is in my throat;--forthwith I'm a heretic, and am
clapped into prison. Or if I am passing through the country, and stand
near a crowd listening to a new preacher, one of those who have come
from Germany; instantly I'm called a rebel, and am in danger of losing
my head! Have you ever heard one of these preachers?

Soest. Brave fellows! Not long ago, I heard one of them preach in a
field, before thousands and thousands of people. A different sort
of dish he gave us from that of our humdrum preachers, who, from the
pulpit, choke their hearers with scraps of Latin. He spoke from his
heart; told us how we had till now been led by the nose, how we had
been kept in darkness, and how we might procure more light;--ay, and he
proved it all out of the Bible.

Jetter. There may be something in it. I always said as much, and have
often pondered over the matter. It has long been running in my head.

Buyck. All the people run after them.

Soest. No wonder, since they hear both what is good and what is new.

Jetter. And what is it all about? Surely they might let every one preach
after his own fashion.

Buyck. Come, sirs! While you are talking, you; forget the wine and the
Prince of Orange.

Jetter. We must not forget him. He's a very wall of defence. In thinking
of him, one fancies, that if one could only hide behind him, the devil
himself could not get at one. Here's to William of Orange! Hurrah!

All. Hurrah! Hurrah!

Soest. Now, grey-beard, let's have your toast.

Ruysum. Here's to old soldiers! To all soldiers! War for ever!

Buyck. Bravo, old fellow. Here's to all soldiers. War for ever!

Jetter. War! War! Do ye know what ye are shouting about? That it should
slip glibly from your tongue is natural enough; but what wretched work
it is for us, I have not words to tell you. To be stunned the whole
year round by the beating of the drum; to hear of nothing except how one
troop marched here, and another there; how they came over this height,
and halted near that mill; how many were left dead on this field, and
how many on that; how they press forward, and how one wins, and another
loses, without being able to comprehend what they are fighting about;
how a town is taken, how the citizens are put to the sword, and how it
fares with the poor women and innocent children. This is a grief and a
trouble, and then one thinks every moment, "Here they come! It will be
our turn next."

Soest. Therefore every citizen must be practised in the use of arms.

Jetter. Fine talking, indeed, for him who has a wife and children. And
yet I would rather hear of soldiers than see them.

Buyck. I might take offence at that.

Jetter. It was not intended for you, countryman. When we got rid of the
Spanish garrison, we breathed freely again.

Soest. Faith! They pressed on you heavily enough.

Jetter. Mind your own business.

Soest. They came to sharp quarters with you.

Jetter. Hold your tongue.

Soest. They drove him out of kitchen, cellar, chamber--and bed. (They
laugh.)

Jetter. You are a blockhead.

Buyck. Peace, sirs! Must the soldier cry peace? Since you will not hear
anything about us, let us have a toast of your own--a citizen's toast.

Jetter. We're all ready for that! Safety and peace!

Soest. Order and freedom!

Buyck. Bravo! That will content us all.

(They ring their glasses together, and joyously repeat the words, but in
such a manner that each utters a different sound, and it becomes a kind
of chant. The old man listens, and at length joins in.)

All. Safety and peace! Order and freedom!



SCENE II.---Palace of the Regent

Margaret of Parma (in a hunting dress). Courtiers, Pages, Servants

Regent. Put off the hunt, I shall not ride to-day. Bid Machiavel attend
me.

[Exeunt all but the Regent.

The thought of these terrible events leaves me no repose! Nothing can
amuse, nothing divert my mind. These images, these cares are always
before me. The king will now say that these are the natural fruits of
my kindness, of my clemency; yet my conscience assures me that I have
adopted the wisest, the most prudent course. Ought I sooner to have
kindled, and spread abroad these flames with the breath of wrath? My
hope was to keep them in, to let them smoulder in their own ashes. Yes,
my inward conviction, and my knowledge of the circumstances, justify my
conduct in my own eyes; but in what light will it appear to my brother!
For, can it be denied that the insolence of these foreign teachers waxes
daily more audacious? They have desecrated our sanctuaries, unsettled
the dull minds of the people, and conjured up amongst them a spirit of
delusion. Impure spirits have mingled among the insurgents, horrible
deeds have been perpetrated, which to think of makes one shudder, and of
these a circumstantial account must be transmitted instantly to court.
Prompt and minute must be my communication, lest rumour outrun my
messenger, and the king suspect that some particulars have been
purposely withheld. I can see no means, severe or mild, by which to stem
the evil. Oh, what are we great ones on the waves of humanity? We
think to control them, and are ourselves driven to and fro, hither and
thither.

[Enter Machiavel.

Regent. Are the despatches to the king prepared?

Machiavel. In an hour they will be ready for your signature.

Regent. Have you made the report sufficiently circumstantial?

Machiavel. Full and circumstantial, as the king loves to have it. I
relate how the rage of the iconoclasts first broke out at St. Omer. How
a furious multitude, with staves, hatchets, hammers, ladders, and cords,
accompanied by a few armed men, first assailed the chapels, churches,
and convents, drove out the worshippers, forced the barred gates, threw
everything into confusion, tore down the altars, destroyed the statues
of the saints, defaced the pictures, and dashed to atoms, and trampled
under foot, whatever came in their way that was consecrated and holy.
How the crowd increased as it advanced, and how the inhabitants of Ypres
opened their gates at its approach. How, with incredible rapidity, they
demolished the cathedral, and burned the library of the bishop. How
a vast multitude, possessed by the like frenzy, dispersed themselves
through Menin, Comines, Verviers, Lille, nowhere encountered opposition;
and how, through almost the whole of Flanders, in a single moment, the
monstrous conspiracy declared itself, and was accomplished.

Regent. Alas! Your recital rends my heart anew; and the fear that
the evil will wax greater and greater, adds to my grief. Tell me your
thoughts, Machiavel!

Machiavel. Pardon me, your Highness, my thoughts will appear to you
but as idle fancies; and though you always seem well satisfied with my
services, you have seldom felt inclined to follow my advice. How often
have you said in jest: "You see too far, Machiavel! You should be an
historian; he who acts, must provide for the exigence of the hour." And
yet have I not predicted this terrible history? Have I not foreseen it
all?

Regent. I too foresee many things, without being able to avert them.

Machiavel. In one word, then:---you will not be able to suppress the
new faith. Let it be recognized, separate its votaries from the true
believers, give them churches of their own, include them within the pale
of social order, subject them to the restraints of law,--do this, and
you will at once tranquillize the insurgents. All other measures will
prove abortive, and you will depopulate the country.

Regent. Have you forgotten with what aversion the mere suggestion of
toleration was rejected by my brother? Know you not, how in every letter
he urgently recommends to me the maintenance of the true faith? That he
will not hear of tranquility and order being restored at the expense of
religion? Even in the provinces, does he not maintain spies, unknown to
us, in order to ascertain who inclines to the new doctrines? Has he not,
to our astonishment, named to us this or that individual residing in our
very neighbourhood, who, without its being known, was obnoxious to the
charge of heresy? Does he not enjoin harshness and severity? and am I
to be lenient? Am I to recommend for his adoption measures of indulgence
and toleration? Should I not thus lose all credit with him, and at once
forfeit his confidence?

Machiavel. I know it. The king commands and puts you in full possession
of his intentions. You are to restore tranquillity and peace by measures
which cannot fail still more to embitter men's minds, and which must
inevitably kindle the flames of war from one extremity of the country to
the other. Consider well what you are doing. The principal merchants
are infected--nobles, citizens, soldiers. What avails persisting in
our opinion, when everything is changing around us? Oh, that some good
genius would suggest to Philip that it better becomes a monarch to
govern burghers of two different creeds, than to excite them to mutual
destruction.

Regent. Never let me hear such words again. Full well I know that
the policy of statesmen rarely maintains truth and fidelity; that
it excludes from the heart candour, charity, toleration. In secular
affairs, this is, alas! only too true; but shall we trifle with God as
we do with each other? Shall we be indifferent to our established faith,
for the sake of which so many have sacrificed their lives? Shall we
abandon it to these far-fetched, uncertain, and self-contradicting
heresies?

Machiavel. Think not the worse of me for what I have uttered.

Regent. I know you and your fidelity. I know too that a man may be
both honest and sagacious, and yet miss the best and nearest way to the
salvation of his soul. There are others, Machiavel, men whom I esteem,
yet whom I needs must blame.

Machiavel. To whom do you refer?

Regent. I must confess that Egmont caused me to-day deep and heart-felt
annoyance.

Machiavel. How so?

Regent. By his accustomed demeanour, his usual indifference and levity.
I received the fatal tidings as I was leaving church, attended by him
and several others. I did not restrain my anguish, I broke forth into
lamentations, loud and deep, and turning to him, exclaimed, "See what
is going on in your province! Do you suffer it, Count, you, in whom the
king confided so implicitly?"

Machiavel. And what was his reply?

Regent. As if it were a mere trifle, an affair of no moment,
he answered: "Were the Netherlanders but satisfied as to their
constitution! The rest would soon follow."

Machiavel. There was, perhaps, more truth than discretion or piety in
his words. How can we hope to acquire and to maintain the confidence
of the Netherlander, when he sees that we are more interested in
appropriating his possessions, than in promoting his welfare, temporal
or spiritual? Does the number of souls saved by the new bishops exceed
that of the fat benefices they have swallowed? And are they not for the
most part foreigners? As yet, the office of stadtholder has been held
by Netherlanders; but do not the Spaniards betray their great and
irresistible desire to possess themselves of these places? Will not
people prefer being governed by their own countrymen, and according to
their ancient customs, rather than by foreigners, who, from their first
entrance into the land, endeavour to enrich themselves at the general
expense, who measure everything by a foreign standard, and who exercise
their authority without cordiality or sympathy?

Regent. You take part with our opponents?

Machiavel. Assuredly not in my heart. Would that with my understanding I
could be wholly on our side!

Regent. If such your disposition, it were better I should resign the
regency to them; for both Egmont and Orange entertained great hopes
of occupying this position. Then they were adversaries, now they are
leagued against me, and have become friends--inseparable friends.

Machiavel. A dangerous pair.

Regent. To speak candidly, I fear Orange.--I fear for Egmont.--Orange
meditates some dangerous scheme, his thoughts are far-reaching, he is
reserved, appears to accede to everything, never contradicts, and while
maintaining the show of reverence, with clear foresight accomplishes his
own designs.

Machiavel. Egmont, on the contrary, advances with a bold step, as if the
world were all his own.

Regent. He bears his head as proudly as if the hand of majesty were not
suspended over him.

Machiavel. The eyes of all the people are fixed upon him, and he is the
idol of their hearts.

Regent. He has never assumed the least disguise, and carries himself as
if no one had a right to call him to account. He still bears the name
of Egmont. Count Egmont is the title by which he loves to hear himself
addressed, as though he would fain be reminded that his ancestors were
masters of Guelderland. Why does he not assume his proper title,--Prince
of Gaure? What object has he in view? Would he again revive extinguished
claims?

Machiavel. I hold him for a faithful servant of the king.

Regent. Were he so inclined, what important service could he not render
to the government? Whereas, now, without benefiting himself, he has
caused us unspeakable vexation. His banquets and entertainment have
done more to unite the nobles and to knit them together than the most
dangerous secret associations. With his toasts, his guests have drunk in
a permanent intoxication, a giddy frenzy, that never subsides. How often
have his facetious jests stirred up the minds of the populace? and what
an excitement was produced among the mob by the new liveries, and the
extravagant devices of his followers!

Machiavel. I am convinced he had no design.

Regent. Be that as it may, it is bad enough. As I said before, he
injures us without benefiting himself. He treats as a jest matters of
serious import; and, not to appear negligent and remiss, we are forced
to treat seriously what he intended as a jest. Thus one urges on the
other; and what we are endeavouring to avert is actually brought to
pass. He is more dangerous than the acknowledged head of a conspiracy;
and I am much mistaken if it is not all remembered against him at court.
I cannot deny that scarcely a day passes in which he does not wound
me--deeply wound me.

Machiavel. He appears to me to act on all occasions, according to the
dictates of his conscience.

Regent. His conscience has a convenient mirror. His demeanour is often
offensive. He carries himself as if he felt he were the master here, and
were withheld by courtesy alone from making us feel his supremacy; as if
he would not exactly drive us out of the country; there'll be no need
for that.

Machiavel. I entreat you, put not too harsh a construction upon his
frank and joyous temper, which treats lightly matters of serious moment.
You but injure yourself and him.

Regent. I interpret nothing. I speak only of inevitable consequences,
and I know him. His patent of nobility and the Golden Fleece upon his
breast strengthen his confidence, his audacity. Both can protect him
against any sudden outbreak of royal displeasure. Consider the matter
closely, and he is alone responsible for the whole mischief that has
broken out in Flanders. From the first, he connived at the proceedings
of the foreign teachers, avoided stringent measures, and perhaps
rejoiced in secret that they gave us so much to do. Let me alone; on
this occasion, I will give utterance to that which weighs upon my heart;
I will not shoot my arrow in vain. I know where he is vulnerable. For he
is vulnerable.

Machiavel. Have you summoned the council? Will Orange attend?

Regent. I have sent for him to Antwerp. I will lay upon their shoulders
the burden of responsibility; they shall either strenuously co-operate
with me in quelling the evil, or at once declare themselves rebels. Let
the letters be completed without delay, and bring them for my signature.
Then hasten to despatch the trusty Vasca to Madrid, he is faithful and
indefatigable; let him use all diligence, that he may not be anticipated
by common report, that my brother, may receive the intelligence first
through him. I will myself speak with him ere he departs.

Machiavel. Your orders shall be promptly and punctually obeyed.



SCENE III.--Citizen's House

Clara, her Mother, Brackenburg

Clara. Will you not hold the yarn for me, Brackenburg?

Brackenburg. I entreat you, excuse me, Clara.

Clara. What ails you? Why refuse me this trifling service?

Brackenburg. When I hold the yarn, I stand as it were spell-bound before
you, and cannot escape your eyes.

Clara. Nonsense! Come and hold!

Mother. (knitting in her arm-chair). Give us a song! You used to be merry
once, and I had always something to laugh at.

Brackenburg. Once!

Clara. Well, let us sing.

Brackenburg. As you please.

Clara. Merrily, then, and sing away! 'Tis a soldier's song, my
favourite.

(She winds yarn, and sings with Brackenburg.)

     The drum is resounding,
     And shrill the fife plays;
     My love, for the battle,
     His brave troop arrays;
     He lifts his lance high,
     And the people he sways.
     My blood it is boiling!
     My heart throbs pit-pat!
     Oh, had I a jacket,
     With hose and with hat!
     How boldly I'd follow,
     And march through the gate;
     Through all the wide province
     I'd follow him straight.
     The foe yield, we capture
     Or shoot them! Ah, me!
     What heart-thrilling rapture
     A soldier to be!

(During the song, Brackenburg has frequently looked at Clara; at length
his voice falters, his eyes fill with tears, he lets the skein fall, and
goes to the window. Clara finishes the song alone, her Mother motions to
her, half displeased, she rises, advances a few steps towards him, turns
back, as if irresolute, and again sits down.)

Mother. What is going on in the street, Brackenburg? I hear soldiers
marching.

Brackenburg. It is the Regent's body-guard.

Clara. At this hour? What can it mean? (She rises and joins Brackenburg
at the window.) That is not the daily guard; it is more numerous! almost
all the troops! Oh, Brackenburg, go! Learn what it means. It must be
something unusual. Go, good Brackenburg, do me this favour.

Brackenburg. I am going! I will return immediately. (He offers his hand
to Clara, and she gives him hers.)

[Exit Brackenburg.

Mother. Thou sendest him away so soon!

Clara. I am curious; and, besides--do not be angry, Mother--his presence
pains me. I never know how I ought to behave towards him. I have done
him a wrong, and it goes to my very heart to see how deeply he feels it.
Well, it can't be helped now!

Mother. He is such a true-hearted fellow!

Clara. I cannot help it, I must treat him kindly. Often without a
thought, I return the gentle, loving pressure of his hand. I reproach
myself that I am deceiving him, that I am nourishing in his heart a vain
hope. I am in a sad plight! God knows, I do not willingly deceive him. I
do not wish him to hope, yet I cannot let him despair!

Mother. That is not as it should be.

Clara. I liked him once, and in my soul I like him still I could have
married him; yet I believe I was never really in love with him.

Mother. Thou wouldst always have been happy with him.

Clara. I should have been provided for, and have led a quiet life.

Mother. And through thy fault it has all been trifled away.

Clara, I am in a strange position. When I think how it has come to
pass, I know it, indeed, and I know it not. But I have only to look
upon Egmont, and I understand it all; ay, and stranger things would seem
natural then. Oh, what a man he is! All the provinces worship him. And
in his arms, should I not be the happiest creature in the world?

Mother. And how will it be in the future?

Clara. I only ask, does he love me?--does he love me?--as if there were
any doubt about it.

Mother. One has nothing but anxiety of heart with one's children. Always
care and sorrow, whatever may be the end of it! It cannot come to good!
Thou hast made thyself wretched! Thou hast made thy Mother wretched too.

Clara (quietly). Yet thou didst allow it in the beginning.

Mother. Alas! I was too indulgent; I am always too indulgent.

Clara. When Egmont rode by, and I ran to the window, did you chide
me then? Did you not come to the window yourself? When he looked up,
smiled, nodded, and greeted me, was it displeasing to you? Did you not
feel yourself honoured in your daughter?

Mother. Go on with your reproaches.

Clara (with emotion). Then, when he passed more frequently, and we felt
sure that it was on my account that he came this way, did you not remark
it yourself with secret joy? Did you call me away when I stood behind
the window-pane and awaited him?

Mother. Could I imagine that it would go so far?

Clara (with faltering voice, and repressed tears). And then, one
evening, when, enveloped in his mantle, he surprised us as we sat at
our lamp, who busied herself in receiving him, while I remained, lost in
astonishment, as if fastened to my chair?

Mother. Could I imagine that the prudent Clara would so soon be carried
away by this unhappy love? I must now endure that my daughter--

Clara (bursting into tears). Mother! How can you? You take pleasure in
tormenting me!

Mother (weeping). Ay, weep away! Make me yet more wretched by thy grief.
Is it not misery enough that my only daughter is a castaway?

Clara (rising, and speaking coldly). A castaway! The beloved of Egmont
a castaway!--What princess would not envy the poor Clara a place in his
heart? Oh, Mother,--my own Mother, you were not wont to speak thus! Dear
Mother, be kind!--Let the people think, let the neighbours whisper what
they like--this chamber, this lowly house is a paradise, since Egmont's
love dwelt here.

Mother. One cannot help liking him, that is true. He is always so kind,
frank, and open-hearted.

Clara. There is not a drop of false blood in his veins. And then,
Mother, he is indeed the great Egmont; yet, when he comes to me, how
tender he is, how kind! How he tries to conceal from me his rank, his
bravery! How anxious he is about me! so entirely the man, the friend,
the lover.

Mother. DO you expect him to-day?

Clara. Have you not seen how often I go to the window? Have you not
noticed how I listen to every noise at the door?--Though I know that
he will not come before night, yet, from the time when I rise in the
morning, I keep expecting him every moment. Were I but a boy, to follow
him always, to the court and everywhere! Could I but carry his colours
in the field--!

Mother. You were always such a lively, restless creature; even as a
little child, now wild, now thoughtful. Will you not dress yourself a
little better?

Clara. Perhaps, Mother, if I want something to do.--Yesterday, some of
his people went by, singing songs in honour. At least his name was in
the songs! The rest I could not understand. My heart leaped up into my
throat,--I would fain have called them back if I had not felt ashamed.

Mother. Take care! Thy impetuous nature will ruin all. Thou wilt betray
thyself before the people; as, not long ago, at thy cousin's, when thou
roundest out the woodcut with the description, and didst exclaim, with a
cry: "Count Egmont!"--I grew as red as fire.

Clara. Could I help crying out? It was the battle of Gravelines, and
I found in the picture the letter C. and then looked for it in the
description below. There it stood, "Count Egmont, with his horse shot
under him." I shuddered, and afterwards I could not help laughing at
the woodcut figure of Egmont, as tall as the neighbouring tower of
Gravelines, and the English ships at the side.--When I remember how
I used to conceive of a battle, and what an idea I had, as a girl, of
Count Egmont; when I listened to descriptions of him, and of all the
other earls and princes;--and think how it is with me now!

[Enter Brackenburg.

Clara. Well, what is going on?

Brackenburg. Nothing certain is known. It is rumoured that an
insurrection has lately broken out in Flanders; the Regent is afraid of
its spreading here. The castle is strongly garrisoned, the burghers are
crowding to the gates, and the streets are thronged with people. I will
hasten at once to my old father. (As if about to go.)

Clara. Shall we see you to-morrow? I must change my dress a little. I
am expecting my cousin, and I look too untidy. Come, Mother, help me a
moment. Take the book, Brackenburg, and bring me such another story.

Mother. Farewell.

Brackenburg (extending his hand). Your hand.

Clara (refusing hers). When you come next.

[Exeunt Mother and DAUGHTER.

Brackenburg (alone). I had resolved to go away again at once; and yet,
when she takes me at my word, and lets me leave her, I feel as if I
could go mad,--Wretched man! Does the fate of thy fatherland, does the
growing disturbance fail to move thee?--Are countryman and Spaniard the
same to thee? and carest thou not who rules, and who is in the right? I
wad a different sort of fellow as a schoolboy!--Then, when an exercise
in oratory was given; "Brutus' Speech for Liberty," for instance, Fritz
was ever the first, and the rector would say: "If it were only spoken
more deliberately, the words not all huddled together."--Then my blood
boiled, and longed for action.--Now I drag along, bound by the eyes of
a maiden. I cannot leave her! yet she, alas, cannot love
me!--ah--no---she--she cannot have entirely rejected me--not
entirely--yet half love is no love!--I will endure it no longer!--Can
it be true what a friend lately whispered in my ear, that she secretly
admits a man into the house by night, when she always sends me away
modestly before evening? No, it cannot be true! It is a lie! A base,
slanderous lie! Clara is as innocent as I am wretched.--She has rejected
me, has thrust me from her heart--and shall I live on thus? I cannot,
I will not endure it. Already my native land is convulsed by internal
strife, and do I perish abjectly amid the tumult? I will not endure it!
When the trumpet sounds, when a shot falls, it thrills through my bone
and marrow! But, alas, it does not rouse me! It does not summon me to
join the onslaught, to rescue, to dare.--Wretched, degrading position!
Better end it at once! Not long ago, I threw myself into the water; I
sank--but nature in her agony was too strong for me; I felt that I could
swim, and saved myself against my will. Could I but forget the time when
she loved me, seemed to love me!--Why has this happiness penetrated my
very bone and marrow? Why have these hopes, while disclosing to me a
distant paradise, consumed all the enjoyment of life?--And that first,
that only kiss!--Here (laying his hand upon the table), here we were
alone,--she had always been kind and friendly towards me,--then she
seemed to soften,--she looked at me,--my brain reeled,--I felt her lips
on mine,--and--and now?--Die, wretch! Why dost thou hesitate? (He draws
a phial from his pocket.) Thou healing poison, it shall not have been
in vain that I stole thee from my brother's medicine chest! From this
anxious fear, this dizziness, this death-agony, thou shalt deliver me at
once.




ACT II


SCENE I.--Square in Brussels

Jetter and a Master Carpenter (meeting)

Carpenter. Did I not tell you beforehand? Eight days ago, at the guild,
I said there would be serious disturbances?

Jetter. Is it, then, true that they have plundered the churches in
Flanders?

Carpenter. They have utterly destroyed both churches and chapels. They
have left nothing standing but the four bare walls. The lowest rabble!
And this it is that damages our good cause. We ought rather to have
laid our claims before the Regent, formally and decidedly, and then have
stood by them. If we speak now, if we assemble now, it will be said that
we are joining the insurgents.

Jetter. Ay, so every one thinks at first. Why should you thrust your
nose into the mess? The neck is closely connected with it.

Carpenter. I am always uneasy when tumults arise among the mob--among
people who have nothing to lose. They use as a pretext that to which we
also must appeal, and plunge the country in misery.

[Enter Soest.

Soest. Good day, sirs! What news? Is it true that the image-breakers are
coming straight in this direction?

Carpenter. Here they shall touch nothing, at any rate.

Soest. A soldier came into my shop just now to buy tobacco; I questioned
him about the matter. The Regent, though so brave and prudent a lady,
has for once lost her presence of mind. Things must be bad indeed
when she thus takes refuge behind her guards. The castle is strongly
garrisoned. It is even rumoured that she means to fly from the town.

Carpenter. Forth she shall not go! Her presence protects us, and we
will ensure her safety better than her mustachioed gentry. If she only
maintains our rights and privileges, we will stand faithfully by her.

[Enter a Soapboiler.

Soapboiler. An ugly business this! a bad business! Troubles are
beginning; all things are going wrong! Mind you keep quiet, or they'll
take you also for rioters.

Soest. Here come the seven wise men of Greece.

Soapboiler. I know there are many who in secret hold with the
Calvinists, abuse the bishops, and care not for the king. But a loyal
subject, a sincere Catholic--!

(By degrees others join the speakers, and listen.)

[Enter Vansen.

Vansen. God save you, sirs! What news?

Carpenter. Have nothing to do with him, he's a dangerous fellow.

Jetter. Is he not secretary to Dr. Wiets?

Carpenter. He has already had several masters. First he was a clerk, and
as one patron after another turned him off, on account of his roguish
tricks, he now dabbles in the business of notary and advocate, and is a
brandy-drinker to boot. (More people gather round and stand in groups.)

Vansen. So here you are, putting your heads together. Well, it is worth
talking about.

Soest. I think so too.

Vansen. Now if only one of you had heart and another head enough for the
work, we might break the Spanish fetters at once.

Soest. Sirs! you must not talk thus. We have taken our oath to the king.

Vansen. And the king to us. Mark that!

Jetter. There's sense in that? Tell us your opinion.

Others. Hearken to him; he's a clever fellow. He's sharp enough. I had
an old master once, who possessed a collection of parchments, among
which were charters of ancient constitutions, contracts, and privileges.
He set great store, too, by the rarest books. One of these contained our
whole constitution; how, at first, we Netherlanders had princes of our
own, who governed according to hereditary laws, rights, and usages; how
our ancestors paid due honour to their sovereign so long as he governed
them equitably; and how they were immediately on their guard the moment
he was for overstepping his bounds. The states were down upon him
at once; for every province, however small, had its own chamber and
representatives.

Carpenter. Hold your tongue! We knew that long ago! Every honest citizen
learns as much about the constitution as he needs.

Jetter. Let him speak; one may always learn something.

Soest. He is quite right.

Several Citizens. Go on! Go on! One does not hear this every day.

Vansen. You citizens, forsooth! You live only in the present; and as
you tamely follow the trade inherited from your fathers, so you let the
government do with you just as it pleases. You make no inquiry into the
origin, the history, or the rights of a Regent; and in consequence of
this negligence, the Spaniard has drawn the net over your ears.

Soest. Who cares for that, if one has only daily bread?

Jetter. The devil! Why did not some one come forward and tell us this in
time?

Vansen. I tell it you now. The King of Spain, whose good fortune it is
to bear sway over these provinces, has no right to govern them otherwise
than the petty princes who formerly possessed them separately. Do you
understand that?

Jetter. Explain it to us.

Vansen. Why, it is as clear as the sun. Must you not be governed
according to your provincial laws? How comes that?

A Citizen. Certainly!

Vansen. Has not the burgher of Brussels a different law from the burgher
of Antwerp? The burgher of Antwerp from the burgher of Ghent? How comes
that?

Another Citizen. By heavens!

Vansen. But if you let matters run on thus, they will soon tell you a
different story. Fie on you! Philip, through a woman, now ventures to
do what neither Charles the Bold, Frederick the Warrior, nor Charles the
Fifth could accomplish.

Soest. Yes, yes! The old princes tried it also.

Vansen. Ay! But our ancestors kept a sharp look-out. If they thought
themselves aggrieved by their sovereign, they would perhaps get his son
and heir into their hands, detain him as a hostage, and surrender him
only on the most favourable conditions. Our fathers were men! They knew
their own interests! They knew how to lay hold on what they wanted, and
to get it established! They were men of the right sort! and hence it
is that our privileges are so dearly defined, our liberties so well
secured.

Soest. What are you saying about our liberties?

All. Our liberties! our privileges! Tell us about our privileges.

Vansen. All the provinces have their peculiar advantages, but we of
Brabant are the most splendidly provided for. I have read it all.

Soest. Say on.

Jetter. Let us hear.

A Citizen. Pray do.

Vansen. First, it stands written:--The Duke of Brabant shall be to us a
good and faithful sovereign.

Soest. Good! Stands it so?

Jetter. Faithful? Is that true?

Vansen. As I tell you. He is bound to us as we are to him. Secondly: In
the exercise of his authority he shall neither exert arbitrary
power, nor exhibit caprice, himself, nor shall he, either directly or
indirectly, sanction them in others.

Jetter. Bravo! Bravo! Not exert arbitrary power.

Soest. Nor exhibit caprice.

Another. And not sanction them in others! That is the main point. Not
sanction them, either directly or indirectly.

Vansen. In express words.

Jetter. Get us the book.

A Citizen. Yes, we must see it.

Others. The book! The book!

Another. We will to the Regent with the book.

Another. Sir doctor, you shall be spokesman.

Soapboiler. Oh, the dolts!

Others. Something more out of the book!

Soapboiler. I'll knock his teeth down his throat if he says another
word.

People. We'll see who dares to lay hands upon him. Tell us about our
privileges! Have we any more privileges?

Vansen. Many, very good and very wholesome ones too. Thus it stands: The
sovereign shall neither benefit the clergy, nor increase their number,
without the consent of the nobles and of the states. Mark that! Nor
shall he alter the constitution of the country.

Soest. Stands it so?

Vansen. I'll show it you, as it was written down two or three centuries
ago.

A Citizen. And we tolerate the new bishops? The nobles must protect us,
we will make a row else!

Others. And we suffer ourselves to be intimidated by the Inquisition?

Vansen. It is your own fault.

People. We have Egmont! We have Orange! They will protect our interests.

Vansen. Your brothers in Flanders are beginning the good work.

Soapboiler. Dog! (Strikes him.)

(Others oppose the Soapboiler, and exclaim,) Are you also a Spaniard?

Another. What! This honourable man?

Another. This learned man?

(They attack the Soapboiler.)

Carpenter. For heaven's sake, peace!

(Others mingle in the fray.)

Carpenter. Citizens, what means this?

(Boys whistle, throw stones, set on dogs; citizens stand and gape,
people come running up, others walk quietly to and fro, others play all
sorts of pranks, shout and huzza.)

Others. Freedom and privilege! Privilege and freedom!

[Enter Egmont, with followers.

Egmont. Peace! Peace! good people. What is the matter? Peace, I say!
Separate them.

Carpenter. My good lord, you come like an angel from heaven. Hush! See
you nothing? Count Egmont! Honour to Count Egmont!

Egmont. Here, too! What are you about? Burgher against burgher! Does not
even the neighbourhood of our royal mistress oppose a barrier to this
frenzy? Disperse yourselves, and go about your business. 'Tis a bad
sign when you thus keep holiday on working days. How did the disturbance
begin?

(The tumult gradually subsides, and the people gather around Egmont.)

Carpenter. They are fighting about their privileges.

Egmont. Which they will forfeit through their own folly,--and who are
you? You seem honest people.

Carpenter. 'Tis our wish to be so.

Egmont. Your calling?

Carpenter. A Carpenter, and master of the guild.

Egmont. And you?

Soest. A shopkeeper.

Egmont. And you?

Jetter. A tailor.

Egmont. I remember, you were employed upon the liveries of my people.
Your name is Jetter.

Jetter. To think of your grace remembering it!

Egmont. I do not easily forget any one whom I have seen or conversed
with. Do what you can, good people, to keep the peace; you stand in bad
repute enough already. Provoke not the king still farther. The power,
after all, is in his hands. An honest burgher, who maintains himself
industriously, has everywhere as much freedom as he wants.

Carpenter. That now is just our misfortune! With all due deference,
your grace, 'tis the idle portion of the community, your drunkards and
vagabonds, who quarrel for want of something to do, and clamour about
privilege because they are hungry; they impose upon the curious and the
credulous, and, in order to obtain a pot of beer, excite disturbances
that will bring misery upon thousands. That is just what they want. We
keep our houses and chests too well guarded; they would fain drive us
away from them with fire-brands.

Egmont. You shall have all needful assistance; measures have been taken
to stem the evil by force. Make a firm stand against the new doctrines,
and do not imagine that privileges are secured by sedition, Remain at
home; suffer no crowds to assemble in the streets. Sensible people can
accomplish much.

(In the meantime the crowd has for the most part dispersed.)

Carpenter. Thanks, your excellency--thanks for your good opinion!
We will do what in us lies. (Exit Egmont.) A gracious lord! A true
Netherlander! Nothing of the Spaniard about him.

Jetter. If we had only him for a Regent? 'Tis a pleasure to follow him.

Soest. The king won't hear of that. He takes care to appoint his own
people to the place.

Jetter. Did you notice his dress? It was of the newest fashion--after
the Spanish cut.

Carpenter. A handsome gentleman.

Jetter. His head now were a dainty morsel for a heads-man.

Soest. Are you mad? What are you thinking about?

Jetter. It is stupid enough that such an idea should come into one's
head! But so it is. Whenever I see a fine long neck, I cannot help
thinking how well it would suit the block. These cursed executions! One
cannot get them out of one's head. When the lads are swimming, and I
chance to see a naked back, I think forthwith of the dozens I have seen
beaten with rods. If I meet a portly gentleman, I fancy I already see
him roasting at the stake. At night, in my dreams, I am tortured in
every limb; one cannot have a single hour's enjoyment; all merriment and
fun have long been forgotten. These terrible images seem burnt in upon
my brain.



SCENE II.--Egmont's residence

His Secretary (at a desk with papers. He rises impatiently)

Secretary. Still he comes not! And I have been waiting already full two
hours, pen in hand, the paper before me; and just to-day I was anxious
to be out so early. The floor burns under my feet. I can with difficulty
restrain my impatience. "Be punctual to the hour:" Such was his parting
injunction; now he comes not. There is so much business to get through,
I shall not have finished before midnight. He overlooks one's faults, it
is true; methinks it would be better though, were he more strict, so he
dismissed one at the appointed time. One could then arrange one's plans.
It is now full two hours since he left the Regent; who knows whom he may
have chanced to meet by the way?

[Enter Egmont.

Egmont. Well, how do matters look?

Secretary. I am ready, and three couriers are waiting.

Egmont. I have detained you too long; you look somewhat out of humour.

Secretary. In obedience to your command I have already been in
attendance for some time. Here are the papers!

Egmont. Donna Elvira will be angry with me, when she learns that I have
detained you.

Secretary. You are pleased to jest.

Egmont. No, no. Be not ashamed. I admire your taste. She is pretty, and
I have no objection that you should have a friend at the castle. What
say the letters?

Secretary. Much, my lord, but withal little that is satisfactory.

Egmont. 'Tis well that we have pleasures at home, we have the less
occasion to seek them from abroad. Is there much that requires
attention?

Secretary. Enough, my lord; three couriers are in attendance.

Egmont. Proceed! The most important.

Secretary. All is important.

Egmont. One after the other; only be prompt.

Secretary. Captain Breda sends an account of the occurrences that have
further taken place in Ghent and the surrounding districts. The tumult
is for the most part allayed.

Egmont. He doubtless reports individual acts of folly and temerity?

Secretary. He does, my lord.

Egmont. Spare me the recital.

Secretary. Six of the mob who tore down the image of the Virgin at
Verviers have been arrested. He inquires whether they are to be hanged
like the others.

Egmont. I am weary of hanging; let them be flogged and discharged.

Secretary. There are two women among them; are they to be flogged also?

Egmont. He may admonish them and let them go.

Secretary. Brink, of Breda's company, wants to marry; the captain hopes
you will not allow it. There are so many women among the troops, he
writes, that when on the march, they resemble a gang of gypsies rather
than regular soldiers.

Egmont. We must overlook it in his case. He is a fine young fellow, and
moreover entreated me so earnestly before I came away. This must be
the last time, however; though it grieves me to refuse the poor fellows
their best pastime; they have enough without that to torment them.

Secretary. Two of your people, Seter and Hart, have ill-treated a
damsel, the daughter of an inn-keeper. They got her alone and she could
not escape from them.

Egmont. If she be an honest maiden and they used violence, let them be
flogged three days in succession; and if they have any property, let him
retain as much of it as will portion the girl.

Secretary. One of the foreign preachers has been discovered passing
secretly through Comines. He swore that he was on the point of leaving
for France. According to orders, he ought to be beheaded.

Egmont. Let him be conducted quietly to the frontier, and there
admonished that, the next time, he will not escape so easily.

Secretary. A letter from your steward. He writes that money comes in
slowly, he can with difficulty send you the required sum within the
week; the late disturbances have thrown everything into the greatest
confusion.

Egmont. Money must be had! It is for him to look to the means.

Secretary. He says he will do his utmost, and at length proposes to sue
and imprison Raymond, who has been so long in your debt.

Egmont. But he has promised to pay!

Secretary. The last time he fixed a fortnight himself.

Egmont. Well, grant him another fortnight; after that he may proceed
against him.

Secretary. You do well. His non-payment of the money proceeds not from
inability, but from want of inclination. He will trifle no longer
when he sees that you are in earnest. The steward further proposes to
withhold, for half a month, the pensions which you allow to the old
soldiers, widows, and others. In the meantime some expedient may be
devised; they must make their arrangements accordingly.

Egmont. But what arrangements can be made here? These poor people want
the money more than I do. He must not think of it.

Secretary. How then, my lord, is he to raise the required sum?

Egmont. It is his business to think of that. He was told so in a former
letter.

Secretary. And therefore he makes these proposals.

Egmont. They will never do;--he must think of something else. Let him
suggest expedients that are admissible, and, before all, let him procure
the money.

Secretary. I have again before me the letter from Count Oliva. Pardon
my recalling it to your remembrance. Before all others, the aged count
deserves a detailed reply. You proposed writing to him with your own
hand. Doubtless, he loves you as a father.

Egmont. I cannot command the time;--and of all detestable things,
writing is to me the most detestable. You imitate my hand so admirably,
do you write in my name. I am expecting Orange. I cannot do it;--I wish,
however, that something soothing should be written, to allay his fears.

Secretary. Just give me a notion of what you wish to communicate; I
will at once draw up the answer, and lay it before you. It shall be so
written that it might pass for your hand in a court of justice.

Egmont. Give me the letter. (After glancing over it.) Dear, excellent,
old man! Wert thou then so cautious in thy youth? Didst thou never mount
a breach? Didst thou remain in the rear of battle at the suggestion of
prudence?--What affectionate solicitude! He has indeed my safety and
happiness at heart, but considers not, that he who lives but to save his
life, is already dead.--Charge him not to be anxious on my account; I
act as circumstances require, and shall be upon my guard. Let him
use his influence at court in my favour, and be assured of my warmest
thanks.

Secretary. Is that all? He expects still more.

Egmont. What can I say? If you choose to write more fully, do so. The
matter turns upon a single point; he would have me live as I cannot
live. That I am joyous, live fast, take matters easily, is my good
fortune; nor would I exchange it for the safety of a sepulchre. My
blood rebels against the Spanish mode of life, nor have I the least
inclination to regulate my movements by the new and cautious measures of
the court. Do I live only to think of life? Am I to forego the enjoyment
of the present moment in order to secure the next? And must that in its
turn be consumed in anxieties and idle fears?

Secretary. I entreat you, my lord, be not so harsh towards the venerable
man. You are wont to be friendly towards every one. Say a kindly word to
allay the anxiety of your noble friend. See how considerate he is, with
what delicacy he warns you.

Egmont. Yet he harps continually on the same string. He knows of old
how I detest these admonitions. They serve only to perplex and are of
no avail. What if I were a somnambulist, and trod the giddy summit of a
lofty house,--were it the part of friendship to call me by my name,
to warn me of my danger, to waken, to kill me? Let each choose his own
path, and provide for his own safety.

Secretary. It may become you to be without a fear, but those who know
and love you--

Egmont (looking over the letter). Then he recalls the old story of our
sayings and doings, one evening, in the wantonness of conviviality
and wine; and what conclusions and inferences were thence drawn and
circulated throughout the whole kingdom! Well, we had a cap and bells
embroidered on the sleeves of our servants' liveries, and afterwards
exchanged this senseless device for a bundle of arrows;--a still more
dangerous symbol for those who are bent upon discovering a meaning where
nothing is meant, These and similar follies were conceived and brought
forth in a moment of merriment. It was at our suggestion that a noble
troop, with beggars' wallets, and a self-chosen nickname, with mock
humility recalled the King's duty to his remembrance. It was at our
suggestion too--well, what does it signify? Is a carnival jest to be
construed into high treason? Are we to be grudged the scanty, variegated
rags, wherewith a youthful spirit and heated imagination would adorn the
poor nakedness of life? Take life too seriously, and what is it worth?
If the morning wake us to no new joys, if in the evening we have
no pleasures to hope for, is it worth the trouble of dressing and
undressing? Does the sun shine on me to-day, that I may reflect on what
happened yesterday? That I may endeavour to foresee and control, what
can neither be foreseen nor controlled,--the destiny of the morrow?
Spare me these reflections, we will leave them to scholars and
courtiers. Let them ponder and contrive, creep hither and thither,
and surreptitiously achieve their ends.--If you can make use of these
suggestions, without swelling your letter into a volume, it is well.
Everything appears of exaggerated importance to the good old man. 'Tis
thus the friend, who has long held our hand, grasps it more warmly ere
he quits his hold.

Secretary. Pardon me, the pedestrian grows dizzy when he beholds the
charioteer drive past with whirling speed.

Egmont. Child! Child! Forbear! As if goaded by invisible spirits, the
sun-steeds of time bear onward the light car of our destiny; and nothing
remains for us but, with calm self-possession, firmly to grasp the
reins, and now right, now left, to steer the wheels here from the
precipice and there from the rock. Whither he is hasting, who knows?
Does any one consider whence he came?

Secretary. My lord! my lord!

Egmont. I stand high, but I can and must rise yet higher. Courage,
strength, and hope possess my soul. Not yet have I attained the height
of my ambition; that once achieved, I will stand firmly and without
fear. Should I fall, should a thunder-clap, a storm-blast, ay, a false
step of my own, precipitate me into the abyss, so be it! I shall lie
there with thousands of others. I have never disdained, even for a
trifling stake, to throw the bloody die with my gallant comrades; and
shall I hesitate now, when all that is most precious in life is set upon
the cast?

Secretary. Oh, my lord! you know not what you say! May Heaven protect
you!

Egmont Collect your papers. Orange is coming. Dispatch what is most
urgent, that the couriers may set forth before the gates are closed.
The rest may wait. Leave the Count's letter till to-morrow. Fail not
to visit Elvira, and greet her from me. Inform yourself concerning the
Regent's health. She cannot be well, though she would fain conceal it.

[Exit Secretary.

[Enter Orange.

Egmont. Welcome, Orange; you appear somewhat disturbed.

Orange. What say you to our conference with the Regent?

Egmont. I found nothing extraordinary in her manner of receiving us.
I have often seen her thus before. She appeared to me to be somewhat
indisposed.

Orange. Marked you not that she was more reserved than usual? She
began by cautiously approving our conduct during the late insurrection;
glanced at the false light in which, nevertheless, it might be viewed;
and finally turned the discourse to her favourite topic--that her
gracious demeanour, her friendship for us Netherlanders, had never been
sufficiently recognized, never appreciated as it deserved; that nothing
came to a prosperous issue; that for her part she was beginning to grow
weary of it; that the king must at last resolve upon other measures. Did
you hear that?

Egmont. Not all; I was thinking at the time of something else. She is
a woman, good Orange, and all women expect that every one shall submit
passively to their gentle yoke; that every Hercules shall lay aside his
lion's skin, assume the distaff, and swell their train; and, because
they are themselves peaceably inclined, imagine forsooth, that the
ferment which seizes a nation, the storm which powerful rivals excite
against one another, may be allayed by one soothing word, and the most
discordant elements be brought to unite in tranquil harmony at their
feet. 'Tis thus with her; and since she cannot accomplish her object,
why she has no resource left but to lose her temper, to menace us with
direful prospects for the future, and to threaten to take her departure.

Orange. Think you not that this time she will fulfil her threat?

Egmont. Never! How often have I seen her actually prepared for the
journey? Whither should she go? Being here a stadtholder, a queen, think
you that she could endure to spend her days in insignificance at her
brother's court, or to repair to Italy, and there drag on her existence
among her old family connections?

Orange. She is held incapable of this determination, because you have
already seen her hesitate and draw back; nevertheless, it lies in her
to take this step; new circumstances may impel her to the long-delayed
resolve. What if she were to depart, and the king to send another?

Egmont. Why, he would come, and he also would have business enough upon
his hands. He would arrive with vast projects and schemes to reduce
all things to order, to subjugate and combine; and to-day he would be
occupied with this trifle, to-morrow with that, and the day following
have to deal with some unexpected hindrance. He would spend one month
in forming plans, another in mortification at their failure, and half
a year would be consumed in cares for a single province. With him also
time would pass, his head grow dizzy, and things hold on their ordinary
course, till instead of sailing into the open sea, according to the plan
which he had previously marked out, he might thank if, amid the tempest,
he were able to keep his vessel off the rocks.

Orange. What if the king were advised to try an experiment?

Egmont. Which should be--?

Orange. To try how the body would get on without the head.

Egmont. How?

Orange. Egmont, our interests have for years weighed upon my heart; I
ever stand as over a chess-board, and regard no move of my adversary as
insignificant; and as men of science carefully investigate the secrets
of nature, so I hold it to be the duty, ay, the very vocation of a
prince, to acquaint himself with the dispositions and intentions of
all parties. I have reason to fear an outbreak. The king has long acted
according to certain principles; he finds that they do not lead to a
prosperous issue; what more probable than that he should seek it some
other way?

Egmont. I do not believe it. When a man grows old, has attempted much,
and finds that the world cannot be made to move according to his will,
he must needs grow weary of it at last.

Orange. One thing has yet to be attempted.

Egmont. What?

Orange. To spare the people, and to put an end to the princes.

Egmont. How many have long been haunted by this dread? There is no cause
for such anxiety.

Orange. Once I felt anxious; gradually I became suspicious; suspicion
has at length grown into certainty.

Egmont. Has the king more faithful servants than ourselves?

Orange. We serve him after our own fashion; and, between ourselves,
it must be confessed that we understand pretty well how to make the
interests of the king square with our own.

Egmont. And who does not? He has our duty and submission, in so far as
they are his due.

Orange. But what if he should arrogate still more, and regard as
disloyalty what we esteem the maintenance of our just rights?

Egmont. We shall know in that case how to defend ourselves. Let him
assemble the Knights of the Golden Fleece; we will submit ourselves to
their decision.

Orange. What if the sentence were to precede the trial? punishment, the
sentence?

Egmont. It were an injustice of which Philip is incapable; a folly which
I cannot impute either to him or to his counsellors.

Orange. And how if they were both unjust and foolish?

Egmont. No, Orange, it is impossible. Who would venture to lay hands on
us? The attempt to capture us were a vain and fruitless enterprize. No,
they dare not raise the standard of tyranny so high. The breeze
that should waft these tidings over the land would kindle a mighty
conflagration. And what object would they have in view? The king alone
has no power either to judge or to condemn us and would they attempt our
lives by assassination? They cannot intend it. A terrible league would
unite the entire people. Direful hate and eternal separation from the
crown of Spain would, on the instant, be forcibly declared.

Orange. The flames would then rage over our grave, and the blood of our
enemies flow, a vain oblation. Let us consider, Egmont.

Egmont. But how could they effect this purpose?

Orange. Alva is on the way.

Egmont. I do not believe it.

Orange. I know it.

Egmont. The Regent appeared to know nothing of it.

Orange. And, therefore, the stronger is my conviction. The Regent will
give place to him. I know his blood-thirsty disposition, and he brings
an army with him.

Egmont. To harass the provinces anew? The people will be exasperated to
the last degree.

Orange. Their leaders will be secured.

Egmont. No! No!

Orange. Let us retire, each to his province. There we can strengthen
ourselves; the Duke will not begin with open violence.

Egmont. Must we not greet him when he comes?

Orange. We will delay.

Egmont. What if, on his arrival, he should summon us in the king's name?

Orange. We will answer evasively.

Egmont. And if he is urgent?

Orange. We will excuse ourselves.

Egmont. And if he insist?

Orange. We shall be the less disposed to come.

Egmont. Then war is declared; and we are rebels. Do not suffer prudence
to mislead you, Orange. I know it is not fear that makes you yield.
Consider this step.

Orange. I have considered it.

Egmont. Consider for what you are answerable if you are wrong. For the
most fatal war that ever yet desolated a country. Your refusal is the
signal that at once summons the provinces to arms, that justifies every
cruelty for which Spain has hitherto so anxiously sought a pretext. With
a single nod you will excite to the direst confusion what, with patient
effort, we have so long kept in abeyance. Think of the towns, the
nobles, the people; think of commerce, agriculture, trade! Realize the
murder, the desolation! Calmly the soldier beholds his comrade fall
beside him in the battlefield. But towards you, carried downwards by the
stream, shall float the corpses of citizens, of children, of maidens,
till, aghast with horror, you shall no longer know whose cause you are
defending, since you shall see those, for whose liberty you drew
the sword, perishing around you. And what will be your emotions when
conscience whispers, "It was for my own safety that I drew it "?

Orange. We are not ordinary men, Egmont. If it becomes us to sacrifice
ourselves for thousands, it becomes us no less to spare ourselves for
thousands.

Egmont. He who spares himself becomes an object of suspicion ever to
himself.

Orange. He who is sure of his own motives can, with confidence, advance
or retreat.

Egmont. Your own act will render certain the evil that you dread.

Orange. Wisdom and courage alike prompt us to meet an inevitable evil.

Egmont. When the danger is imminent the faintest hope should be taken
into account.

Orange We have not the smallest footing left; we are on the very brink
of the precipice.

Egmont. Is the king's favour on ground so narrow?

Orange. Not narrow, perhaps, but slippery.

Egmont. By heavens! he is belied. I cannot endure that he should be so
meanly thought of! He is Charles's son, and incapable of meanness.

Orange. Kings of course do nothing mean.

Egmont. He should be better known.

Orange. Our knowledge counsels us not to await the result of a dangerous
experiment.

Egmont. No experiment is dangerous, the result of which we have the
courage to meet.

Orange. You are irritated, Egmont.

Egmont. I must see with my own eyes.

Orange. Oh that for once you saw with mine! My friend, because your eyes
are open, you imagine that you see. I go! Await Alva's arrival, and God
be with you! My refusal to do so may perhaps save you. The dragon may
deem the prey not worth seizing, if he cannot swallow us both. Perhaps
he may delay, in order more surely to execute his purpose; in the
meantime you may see matters in their true light. But then, be prompt!
Lose not a moment! Save,--oh, save yourself! Farewell!--Let nothing
escape your vigilance:--how many troops he brings with him; how he
garrisons the town; what force the Regent retains; how your friends are
prepared. Send me tidings--Egmont--Egmont. What would you?

Orange (grasping his hand). Be persuaded! Go with me!

Egmont. How! Tears, Orange!

Orange. To weep for a lost friend is not unmanly.

Egmont. You deem me lost?

Orange. You are lost! Consider! Only a brief respite is left you.
Farewell.

[Exit.

Egmont (alone). Strange that the thoughts of other men should exert such
an influence over us. These fears would never have entered my mind; and
this man infects me with his solicitude. Away! 'Tis a foreign drop in my
blood! Kind nature, cast it forth! And to erase the furrowed lines from
my brow there yet remains indeed a friendly means.




ACT III


SCENE I.--Palace of the Regent Margaret of Parma

Regent. I might have expected it. Ha! when we live immersed in anxiety
and toil, we imagine that we achieve the utmost that is possible;
while he, who, from a distance, looks on and commands, believes that he
requires only the possible. O ye kings! I had not thought it could have
galled me thus. It is so sweet to reign!--and to abdicate? I know not
how my father could do so; but I will also.

Machiavel appears in the back-ground

Regent. Approach, Machiavel. I am thinking over this letter from my
brother.

Machiavel. May I know what it contains?

Regent. As much tender consideration for me as anxiety for his states.
He extols the firmness, the industry, the fidelity, with which I have
hitherto watched over the interests of his Majesty in these provinces.
He condoles with me that the unbridled people occasion me so much
trouble. He is so thoroughly convinced of the depth of my views, so
extraordinarily satisfied with the prudence of my conduct, that I must
almost say the letter is too politely written for a king--certainly for
a brother.

Machiavel. It is not the first time that he has testified to you his
just satisfaction.

Regent. But the first time that it is a mere rhetorical figure.

Machiavel. I do not understand you.

Regent. You soon will.--For after this preamble he is of opinion that
without soldiers, without a small army indeed,---I shall always cut a
sorry figure here! We did wrong, he says, to withdraw our troops from
the provinces at the remonstrance of the inhabitants; a garrison, he
thinks, which shall press upon the neck of the burgher, will prevent
him, by its weight, from making any lofty spring.

Machiavel. It would irritate the public mind to the last degree.

Regent. The king thinks, however, do you hear?--he thinks that a clever
general, one who never listens to reason, will be able to deal promptly
with all parties;--people and nobles, citizens and peasants; he
therefore sends, with a powerful army, the Duke of Alva.

Machiavel. Alva?

Regent. You are surprised.

Machiavel. You say, he sends, he asks doubtless whether he should send.

Regent. The king asks not, he sends.

Machiavel. You will then have an experienced warrior in your service.

Regent. In my service? Speak out, Machiavel.

Machiavel. I would not anticipate you.

Regent. And I would I could dissimulate. It wounds me--wounds me to
the quick. I had rather my brother would speak his mind than attach his
signature to formal epistles drawn up by a Secretary of state.

Machiavel. Can they not comprehend?--

Regent. I know them both within and without. They would fain make a
clean sweep; and since they cannot set about it themselves, they give
their confidence to any one who comes with a besom in his hand. Oh,
it seems to me as if I saw the king and his council worked upon this
tapestry.

Machiavel. So distinctly!

Regent. No feature is wanting. There are good men among them. The honest
Roderigo, so experienced and so moderate, who does not aim too high, yet
lets nothing sink too low; the upright Alonzo, the diligent Freneda, the
steadfast Las Vargas, and others who join them when the good party are
in power. But there sits the hollow-eyed Toledan, with brazen front and
deep fire-glance, muttering between his teeth about womanish softness,
ill-timed concession, and that women can ride trained steeds, well
enough, but are themselves bad masters of the horse, and the like
pleasantries, which, in former times, I have been compelled to hear from
political gentlemen.

Machiavel. You have chosen good colours for your picture.

Regent. Confess, Machiavel, among the tints from which I might select,
there is no hue so livid, so jaundice-like, as Alva's complexion,
and the colour he is wont to paint with. He regards every one as a
blasphemer or traitor, for under this head they can all be racked,
impaled, quartered, and burnt at pleasure. The good I have accomplished
here appears as nothing seen from a distance, just because it is good.
Then he dwells on every outbreak that is past, recalls every disturbance
that is quieted, and brings before the king such a picture of mutiny,
sedition, and audacity, that we appear to him to be actually devouring
one another, when with us the transient explosion of a rude people has
long been forgotten. Thus he conceives a cordial hatred for the poor
people; he views them with horror, as beasts and monsters; looks around
for fire and sword, and imagines that by such means human beings are
subdued.

Machiavel. You appear to me too vehement; you take the matter too
seriously. Do you not remain Regent?

Regent. I am aware of that. He will bring his instructions. I am old
enough in state affairs to understand how people can be supplanted,
without being actually deprived of office. First, he will produce a
commission, couched in terms somewhat obscure and equivocal; he will
stretch his authority, for the power is in his hands; if I complain,
he will hint at secret instructions; if I desire to see them, he will
answer evasively; if I insist, he will produce a paper of totally
different import; and if this fail to satisfy me, he will go on
precisely as if I had never interfered. Meanwhile he will have
accomplished what I dread, and have frustrated my most cherished
schemes.

Machiavel. I wish I could contradict you.

Regent. His harshness and cruelty will again arouse the turbulent
spirit, which, with unspeakable patience, I have succeeded in quelling;
I shall see my work destroyed before my eyes, and have besides to bear
the blame of his wrongdoing.

Machiavel. Await it, your Highness.

Regent. I have sufficient self-command to remain quiet. Let him come; I
will make way for him with the best grace ere he pushes me aside.

Machiavel. So important a step thus suddenly? Regent. 'Tis harder than
you imagine. He who is accustomed to rule, to hold daily in his hand the
destiny of thousands, descends from the throne as into the grave. Better
thus, however, than linger a spectre among the living, and with hollow
aspect endeavour to maintain a place which another has inherited, and
already possesses and enjoys.



SCENE II.--Clara's dwelling

Clara and her Mother

Mother. Such a love as Brackenburg's I have never seen; I thought it was
to be found only in romance books.

Clara (walking up and down the room, humming a song). With love's
thrilling rapture What joy can compare!

Mother. He suspects thy attachment to Egmont; and yet, if thou wouldst
but treat him a little kindly, I do believe he would marry thee still,
if thou wouldst have him.

Clara (sings).

     Blissful
     And tearful,
     With thought-teeming brain;
     Hoping
     And fearing
     In passionate pain;
     Now shouting in triumph,
     Now sunk in despair;--
     With love's thrilling rapture
     What joy can compare!

Mother. Have done with such baby-nonsense!

Clara. Nay, do not abuse it; 'tis a song of marvellous virtue. Many a
time have I lulled a grown child to sleep with it.

Mother. Ay! Thou canst think of nothing but thy love. If it only did not
put everything else out of thy head. Thou shouldst have more regard for
Brackenburg, I tell thee. He may make thee happy yet some day.

Clara. He?

Mother. Oh, yes! A time will come! You children live only in the
present, and give no ear to our experience. Youth and happy love, all
has an end; and there comes a time when one thanks God if one has any
corner to creep into.

Clara (shudders, and after a pause stands up). Mother, let that time
come--like death. To think of it beforehand is horrible! And if it come!
If we must--then--we will bear ourselves as we may. Live without thee,
Egmont! (Weeping.) No! It is impossible.

[Enter Egmont (enveloped in a horseman's cloak, his hat drawn over his
face).

Egmont. Clara!

Clara (utters a cry and starts back). Egmont! (She hastens towards him.)
Egmont! (She embraces and leans upon him.) O thou good, kind, sweet
Egmont! Art thou come? Art thou here indeed!

Egmont. Good evening, Mother?

Mother. God save you, noble sir! My daughter has well-nigh pined to
death, because you have stayed away so long; she talks and sings about
you the live-long day.

Egmont. You will give me some supper?

Mother. You do us too much honour. If we only had anything--

Clara. Certainly! Be quiet, Mother; I have provided everything; there is
something prepared. Do not betray me, Mother.

Mother. There's little enough.

Clara. Never mind! And then I think when he is with me I am never
hungry; so he cannot, I should think, have any great appetite when I am
with him.

Egmont. Do you think so? (Clara stamps with her foot and turns pettishly
away.) What ails you?

Clara. How cold you are to-day! You have not yet offered me a kiss. Why
do you keep your arms enveloped in your mantle, like a new-born babe? It
becomes neither a soldier nor a lover to keep his arms muffled up.

Egmont. Sometimes, dearest, sometimes. When the soldier stands in ambush
and would delude the foe, he collects his thoughts, gathers his mantle
around him, and matures his plan and a lover--

Mother. Will you not take a seat, and make yourself comfortable? I must
to the kitchen, Clara thinks of nothing when you are here. You must put
up with what we have.

Egmont. Your good-will is the best seasoning.

[Exit Mother.

Clara. And what then is my love?

Egmont. Just what thou wilt.

Clara. Liken it to anything, if you have the heart.

Egmont. But first. (He flings aside his mantle, and appears arrayed in a
magnificent dress.)

Clara. Oh heavens!

Egmont. Now my arms are free! (Embraces her.)

Clara. Don't! You will spoil your dress. (She steps back.) How
magnificent! I dare not touch you.

Egmont. Art thou satisfied? I promised to come once arrayed in Spanish
fashion.

Clara. I had ceased to remind you of it; I thought you did not like
it--ah, and the Golden Fleece!

Egmont. Thou seest it now.

Clara. And did the emperor really hang it round thy neck!

Egmont. He did, my child! And this chain and Order invest the wearer
with the noblest privileges. On earth I acknowledge no judge over
my actions, except the grand master of the Order, with the assembled
chapter of knights.

Clara. Oh, thou mightest let the whole world sit in judgment over thee.
The velvet is too splendid! and the braiding! and the embroidery! One
knows not where to begin.

Egmont. There, look thy fill.

Clara. And the Golden Fleece! You told me its history, and said it is
the symbol of everything great and precious, of everything that can be
merited and won by diligence and toil. It is very precious--I may liken
it to thy love;--even so I wear it next my heart;--and then--

Egmont. What wilt thou say?

Clara. And then again it is not like.

Egmont. How so?

Clara. I have not won it by diligence and toil, I have not deserved it.

Egmont. It is otherwise in love. Thou dost deserve it because thou hast
not sought it--and, for the most part, those only obtain love who seek
it not.

Clara. Is it from thine own experience that thou hast learned this?
Didst thou make that proud remark in reference to thyself? Thou, whom
all the people love?

Egmont. Would that I had done something for them! That I could do
anything for them! It is their own good pleasure to love me.

Clara. Thou hast doubtless been with the Regent to-day?

Egmont. I have.

Clara. Art thou upon good terms with her?

Egmont So it would appear. We are kind and serviceable to each other.

Clara. And in thy heart?

Egmont. I like her. True, we have each our own views; but that is
nothing to the purpose. She is an excellent woman, knows with whom
she has to deal, and would be penetrating enough were she not quite
so suspicious. I give her plenty of employment, because she is always
suspecting some secret motive in my conduct when, in fact, I have none.

Clara. Really none?

Egmont. Well, with one little exception, perhaps. All wine deposits lees
in the cask in the course of time. Orange furnishes her still better
entertainment, and is a perpetual riddle. He has got the credit of
harbouring some secret design; and she studies his brow to discover his
thoughts, and his steps, to learn in what direction they are bent.

Clara. Does she dissemble?

Egmont. She is Regent--and do you ask?

Clara. Pardon me; I meant to say, is she false?

Egmont. Neither more nor less than everyone who has his own objects to
attain.

Clara. I should never feel at home in the world. But she has a
masculine spirit, and is another sort of woman from us housewives and
sempstresses. She is great, steadfast, resolute.

Egmont. Yes, when matters are not too much involved. For once, however,
she is a little disconcerted.

Clara. How so?

Egmont. She has a moustache, too, on her upper lip, and occasionally an
attack of the gout. A regular Amazon.

Clara. A majestic woman! I should dread to appear before her.

Egmont. Yet thou art not wont to be timid! It would not be fear, only
maidenly bashfulness.

(Clara casts down her eyes, takes his hand, and leans upon him.)

Egmont. I understand thee, dearest! Thou mayst raise thine eyes. (He
kisses her eyes.)

Clara. Let me be silent! Let me embrace thee! Let me look into thine
eyes, and find there everything--hope and comfort, joy and sorrow!
(She embraces and gazes on him.) Tell me! Oh, tell me! It seems so
strange--art thou indeed Egmont! Count Egmont! The great Egmont, who
makes so much noise in the world, who figures in the newspapers, who is
the support and stay of the provinces?

Egmont. No, Clara, I am not he.

Clara. How?

Egmont. Seest thou, Clara? Let me sit down! (He seats himself, she
kneels on a footstool before him, rests her arms on his knees and
looks up in his face.) That Egmont is a morose, cold, unbending Egmont,
obliged to be upon his guard, to assume now this appearance and now
that; harassed, misapprehended and perplexed, when the crowd esteem him
light-hearted and gay; beloved by a people who do not know their own
minds; honoured and extolled by the intractable multitude; surrounded
by friends in whom he dares not confide; observed by men who are on the
watch to supplant him; toiling and striving, often without an object,
generally without a reward. O let me conceal how it fares with him,
let me not speak of his feelings! But this Egmont, Clara, is calm,
unreserved, happy, beloved and known by the best of hearts, which is
also thoroughly known to him, and which he presses to his own with
unbounded confidence and love. (He embraces her.) This is thy Egmont.

Clara. So let me die! The world has no joy after this!




ACT IV


SCENE I.--A Street

Jetter, Carpenter

Jetter. Hist! neighbour,--a word!

Carpenter. Go your way and be quiet.

Jetter. Only one word. Is there nothing new?

Carpenter. Nothing, except that we are anew forbidden to speak.

Jetter. How?

Carpenter. Step here, close to this house. Take heed! Immediately on
his arrival, the Duke of Alva published a decree, by which two or three,
found conversing together in the streets, are without trial, declared
guilty of high treason.

Jetter. Alas!

Carpenter. To speak of state affairs is prohibited on pain of perpetual
imprisonment.

Jetter. Alas for our liberty!

Carpenter. And no one, on pain of death, shall censure the measures of
government.

Jetter. Alas, for our heads!

Carpenter. And fathers, Mothers, children, kindred, friends, and
servants, are invited, by the promise of large rewards, to disclose
what passes in the privacy of our homes, before an expressly appointed
tribunal.

Jetter. Let us go home.

Carpenter. And the obedient are promised that they shall suffer no
injury, either in person or estate.

Jetter. How gracious!---I felt ill at ease the moment the duke entered
the town. Since then, it has seemed to me, as though the heavens were
covered with black crape, which hangs so low, that one must stoop down
to avoid knocking one's head against it.

Carpenter. And how do you like his soldiers? They are a different sort
of crabs from those we have been used to.

Jetter. Faugh! It gives one the cramp at one's heart to see such a troop
march down the street. As straight as tapers, with fixed look, only one
step, however many there may be; and when they stand sentinel, and
you pass one of them, it seems as though he would look you through and
through; and he looks so stiff and morose, that you fancy you see a
task-master at every corner. They offend my sight. Our militia were
merry fellows; they took liberties, stood their legs astride, their
hats over their ears, they lived and let live; these fellows are like
machines with a devil inside them.

Carpenter. Were such an one to cry, "Halt!" and level his musket, think
you one would stand?

Jetter. I should fall dead upon the spot.

Carpenter. Let us go home!

Jetter No good can come of it. Farewell.

[Enter Soest.

Soest. Friends! Neighbours! Carpenter. Hush! Let us go.

Soest. Have you heard?

Jetter. Only too much!

Soest. The Regent is gone.

Jetter. Then Heaven help us.

Carpenter. She was some stay to us.

Soest. Her departure was sudden and secret. She could not agree with the
duke; she has sent word to the nobles that she intends to return. No one
believes it, however.

Carpenter. God pardon the nobles for letting this new yoke be laid upon
our necks. They might have prevented it. Our privileges are gone.

Jetter. For Heaven's sake not a word about privileges. I already scent
an execution; the sun will not come forth; the fogs are rank.

Soest. Orange, too, is gone.

Carpenter. Then are we quite deserted!

Soest, Count Egmont is still here.

Jetter. God be thanked! Strengthen him, all ye saints, to do his utmost;
he is the only one who can help us.

[Enter Vansen.

Vansen. Have I at length found a few brave citizens who have not crept
out of sight?

Jetter. Do us the favour to pass on.

Vansen. You are not civil.

Jetter. This is no time for compliments. Does your back itch again? are
your wounds already healed?

Vansen. Ask a soldier about his wounds? Had I cared for blows, nothing
good would have come of me.

Jetter. Matters may grow more serious.

Vansen. You feel from the gathering storm a pitiful weakness in your
limbs, it seems.

Carpenter. Your limbs will soon be in motion elsewhere, if you do not
keep quiet.

Vansen. Poor mice! The master of the house procures a new cat, and ye
are straight in despair! The difference is very trifling; we shall get
on as we did before, only be quiet.

Carpenter. You are an insolent knave.

Vansen. Gossip! Let the duke alone. The old cat looks as though he had
swallowed devils, instead of mice, and could not now digest them. Let
him alone, I say; he must eat, drink, and sleep, like other men. I am
not afraid if we only watch our opportunity, At first he makes quick
work Of it; by-and-by, however, he too will find that it is pleasanter
to live in the larder, among flitches of bacon, and to rest by night,
than to entrap a few solitary mice in the granary. Go to! I know the
stadtholders.

Carpenter. What such a fellow can say with impunity! Had I said such a
thing, I should not hold myself safe a moment.

Vansen. Do not make yourselves uneasy! God in heaven does not trouble
himself about you, poor worms, much less the Regent.

Jetter. Slanderer!

Vansen. I know some for whom it would be better if, instead of their own
high spirits, they had a little tailor's blood in their veins.

Carpenter. What mean you by that?

Vansen. Hum! I mean the count.

Jetter. Egmont! What has he to fear?

Vansen. I'm a poor devil, and could live a whole year round on what he
loses in a single night; yet he would do well to give me his revenue for
a twelvemonth, to have my head upon his shoulders for one quarter of an
hour.

Jetter. You think yourself very clever; yet there is more sense in the
hairs of Egmont's head, than in your brains.

Vansen. Perhaps so! Not more shrewdness, however. These gentry are
the most apt to deceive themselves. He should be more chary of his
confidence.

Jetter. How his tongue wags! Such a gentleman!

Vansen. Just because he is not a tailor.

Jetter. You audacious scoundrel!

Vansen. I only wish he had your courage in his limbs for an hour to make
him uneasy, and plague and torment him, till he were compelled to leave
the town.

Jetter. What nonsense you talk; why he's as safe as a star in heaven.

Vansen. Have you ever seen one snuff itself out? Off it went!

Carpenter. Who would dare to meddle with him?

Vansen. Will you interfere to prevent it? Will you stir up an
insurrection if he is arrested?

Jetter. Ah!

Vansen. Will you risk your ribs for his sake?

Soest. Eh!

Vansen (mimicking them). Eh! Oh! Ah! Run through the alphabet in your
wonderment. So it is, and so it will remain. Heaven help him!

Jetter. Confound your impudence. Can such a noble, upright man have
anything to fear?

Vansen. In this world the rogue has everywhere the advantage. At the
bar, he makes a fool of the judge; on the bench, he takes pleasure in
convicting the accused. I have had to copy out a protocol, where the
commissary was handsomely rewarded by the court, both with praise and
money, because through his cross-examination, an honest devil, against
whom they had a grudge, was made out to be a rogue.

Carpenter. Why, that again is a downright lie. What can they want to get
out of a man if he is innocent?

Vansen. Oh, you blockhead! When nothing can be worked out of a man by
cross-examination, they work it into him. Honesty is rash and withal
somewhat presumptuous; at first they question quietly enough, and the
prisoner, proud of his innocence, as they call it, comes out with
much that a sensible man would keep back! then, from these answers the
inquisitor proceeds to put new questions, and is on the watch for the
slightest contradiction; there he fastens his line; and, let the poor
devil lose his self-possession, say too much here, or too little there,
or, Heaven knows from what whim or other, let him withhold some trifling
circumstance, or at any moment give way to fear--then we're on the
right track, and, I assure you, no beggar-woman seeks for rags among the
rubbish with more care than such a fabricator of rogues, from trifling,
crooked, disjointed, misplaced, misprinted, and concealed facts and
information, acknowledged or denied, endeavours at length to patch up a
scarecrow, by means of which he may at least hang his victim in effigy;
and the poor devil may thank Heaven if he is in a condition to see
himself hanged.

Jetter. He has a ready tongue of his own.

Carpenter. This may serve well enough with flies. Wasps laugh at your
cunning web.

Vansen. According to the kind of spider. The tall duke, now, has just
the look of your garden spider; not the large-bellied kind, they are
less dangerous; but your long-footed, meagre-bodied gentleman, that does
not fatten on his diet, and whose threads are slender indeed, but not
the less tenacious.

Jetter. Egmont is knight of the Golden Fleece, who dare lay hands on
him? He can be tried only by his peers, by the assembled knights of his
order. Your own foul tongue and evil conscience betray you into this
nonsense.

Vansen. Think you that I wish him ill? I would you were in the right. He
is an excellent gentleman. He once let off, with a sound drubbing,
some good friends of mine, who would else have been hanged. Now take
yourselves off! begone, I advise you! Yonder I see the patrol again
commencing their round. They do not look as if they would be willing to
fraternize with us over a glass. We must wait, and bide our time. I
have a couple of nieces and a gossip of a tapster; if after enjoying
themselves in their company, they are not tamed, they are regular
wolves.



SCENE II.--The Palace of Eulenberg, Residence of the Duke of Alva

Silva and Gomez (meeting)

Silva. Have you executed the duke's commands?

Gomez. Punctually. All the day-patrols have received orders to assemble
at the appointed time, at the various points that I have indicated.
Meanwhile, they march as usual through the town to maintain order.
Each is ignorant respecting the movements of the rest, and imagines the
command to have reference to himself alone; thus in a moment the cordon
can be formed, and all the avenues to the palace occupied. Know you the
reason of this command?

Silva. I am accustomed blindly to obey; and to whom can one more easily
render obedience than to the duke, since the event always proves the
wisdom of his commands?

Gomez. Well! Well! I am not surprised that you are become as reserved
and monosyllabic as the duke, since you are obliged to be always about
his person; to me, however, who am accustomed to the lighter service of
Italy, it seems strange enough. In loyalty and obedience, I am the same
old soldier as ever; but I am wont to indulge in gossip and discussion;
here, you are all silent, and seem as though you knew not how to enjoy
yourselves. The duke, methinks, is like a brazen tower without gates,
the garrison of which must be furnished with wings. Not long ago I heard
him say at the table of a gay, jovial fellow that he was like a bad
spirit-shop, with a brandy sign displayed; to allure idlers, vagabonds,
and thieves.

Silva. And has he not brought us hither in silence?

Gomez. Nothing can be said against that. Of a truth, we, who witnessed
the address with which he led the troops hither out of Italy, have seen
something. How he advanced warily through friends and foes; through
the French, both royalists and heretics; through the Swiss and their
confederates; maintained the strictest discipline, and accomplished with
ease, and without the slightest hindrance, a march that was esteemed so
perilous!--We have seen and learned something.

Silva. Here too! Is not everything as still and quiet as though there
had been no disturbance?

Gomez. Why, as for that, it was tolerably quiet when we arrived.

Silva. The provinces have become much more tranquil; if there is any
movement now, it is only among those who wish to escape; and to them,
methinks, the duke will speedily close every outlet.

Gomez. This service cannot fail to win for him the favour of the king.

Silva. And nothing is more expedient for us than to retain his. Should
the king come hither, the duke doubtless and all whom he recommends will
not go without their reward.

Gomez. Do you really believe then that the king will come?

Silva. So many preparations are being made, that the report appears
highly probable.

Gomez. I am not convinced, however.

Silva. Keep your thoughts to yourself then. For if it should not be the
king's intention to come, it is at least, certain that he wishes the
rumour to be believed.

[Enter Ferdinand.

Ferdinand. Is my father not yet abroad?

Silva. We are waiting to receive his commands.

Ferdinand. The princes will soon be here.

Gomez. Are they expected to-day?

Ferdinand. Orange and Egmont.

Gomez (aside to Silva). A light breaks in upon me.

Silva. Well, then, say nothing about it.

Enter the Duke of Alva (as he advances the rest draw back)

Alva. Gomez.

Gomez (steps forward). My lord.

Alva. You have distributed the guards and given them their instructions?

Gomez. Most accurately. The day-patrols--

Alva. Enough. Attend in the gallery. Silva will announce to you the
moment when you are to draw them together, and to occupy the avenues
leading to the palace. The rest you know.

Gomez. I do, my lord.

Silva. Here my lord.

Alva. I shall require you to manifest to-day all the qualities which I
have hitherto prized in you: courage, resolve, unswerving execution.

Silva. I thank you for affording me an opportunity of showing that your
old servant is unchanged.

Alva. The moment the princes enter my cabinet, hasten to arrest Egmont's
private Secretary. You have made all needful preparations for securing
the others who are specified?

Silva. Rely upon us. Their doom, like a well-calculated eclipse, will
overtake them with terrible certainty.

Alva. Have you had them all narrowly watched?

Silva. All. Egmont especially. He is the only one whose demeanour, since
your arrival, remains unchanged. The live-long day he is now on one
horse and now on another; he invites guests as usual, is merry and
entertaining at table, plays at dice, shoots, and at night steals to
his mistress. The others, on the contrary, have made a manifest pause in
their mode of life; they remain at home, and, from the outward aspect of
their houses, you would imagine that there was a sick man within.

Alva. To work then, ere they recover in spite of us.

Silva. I shall bring them without fail. In obedience to your commands
we load them with officious honours; they are alarmed; cautiously, yet
anxiously, they tender us their thanks, feel that flight would be the
most prudent course, yet none venture to adopt it; they hesitate, are
unable to work together, while the bond which unites them prevents their
acting boldly as individuals. They are anxious to withdraw themselves
from suspicion, and thus only render themselves more obnoxious to it. I
already contemplate with joy the successful realization of your scheme.

Alva. I rejoice only over what is accomplished, and not lightly over
that; for there ever remains ground for serious and anxious thought.
Fortune is capricious; the common, the worthless, she oft-times
ennobles, while she dishonours with a contemptible issue the most
maturely considered schemes. Await the arrival of the princes, then
order Gomez to occupy the streets, and hasten yourself to arrest
Egmont's secretary, and the others who are specified. This done, return,
and announce to my son that he may bring me the tidings in the council.

Silva. I trust this evening I shall dare to appear in your presence.
(Alva approaches his son who has hitherto been standing in the gallery.)
I dare not whisper it even to myself; but my mind misgives me. The event
will, I fear, be different from what he anticipates. I see before me
spirits, who, still and thoughtful, weigh in ebon scales the doom of
princes and of many thousands. Slowly the beam moves up and down; deeply
the judges appear to ponder; at length one scale sinks, the other rises,
breathed on by the caprice of destiny, and all is decided.

[Exit.

Alva (advancing with his son). How did you find the town?

Ferdinand. All is again quiet. I rode as for pastime, from street to
street. Your well-distributed patrols hold Fear so tightly yoked, that
she does not venture even to whisper. The town resembles a plain when
the lightning's glare announces the impending storm: no bird, no beast
is to be seen, that is not stealing to a place of shelter.

Alva. Has nothing further occurred?

Ferdinand. Egmont, with a few companions, rode into the market-place;
we exchanged greetings; he was mounted on an unbroken charger, which
excited my admiration, "Let us hasten to break in our steeds," he
exclaimed; "we shall need them ere long!" He said that he should see me
again to-day; he is coming here, at your desire, to deliberate with you.

Alva. He will see you again.

Ferdinand. Among all the knights whom I know here, he pleases me the
best. I think we shall be friends.

Alva. You are always rash and inconsiderate. I recognize in you the
levity of your Mother, which threw her unconditionally into my arms.
Appearances have already allured you precipitately into many dangerous
connections.

Ferdinand. You will find me ever submissive.

Alva. I pardon this inconsiderate kindness, this heedless gaiety, in
consideration of your youthful blood. Only forget not on what mission I
am sent, and what part in it I would assign to you.

Ferdinand. Admonish me, and spare me not, when you deem it needful.

Alva (after a pause). My son!

Ferdinand. My father!

Alva. The princes will be here anon; Orange and Egmont. It is not
mistrust that has withheld me till now from disclosing to you what is
about to take place. They will not depart hence.

Ferdinand. What do you purpose?

Alva. It has been resolved to arrest them.--You are astonished!
Learn what you have to do; the reasons you shall know when all is
accomplished. Time fails now to unfold them. With you alone I wish to
deliberate on the weightiest, the most secret matters; a powerful bond
holds us linked together; you are dear and precious to me; on you
I would bestow everything. Not the habit of obedience alone would I
impress upon you; I desire also to implant within your mind the power
to realize, to command, to execute; to you I would bequeath a vast
inheritance, to the king a most useful servant; I would endow you with
the noblest of my possessions, that you may not be ashamed to appear
among your brethren.

Ferdinand. How deeply am I indebted to you for this love, which you
manifest for me alone, while a whole kingdom trembles before you!

Alva. Now hear what is to be done. As soon as the princes have entered,
every avenue to the palace will be guarded. This duty is confided to
Gomez. Silva will hasten to arrest Egmont's secretary, together with
those whom we hold most in suspicion. You, meanwhile, will take the
command of the guards stationed at the gates and in the courts. Before
all, take care to occupy the adjoining apartment with the trustiest
soldiers. Wait in the gallery till Silva returns, then bring me any
unimportant paper, as a signal that his commission is executed. Remain
in the ante-chamber till Orange retires, follow him; I will detain
Egmont here as though I had some further communication to make to him.
At the end of the gallery demand Orange's sword, summon the guards,
secure promptly the most dangerous man; I meanwhile will seize Egmont
here.

Ferdinand. I obey, my father--for the first time with a heavy and an
anxious heart.

Alva. I pardon you; this is the first great day of your life.

[Enter Silva.

Silva. A courier from Antwerp. Here is Orange's letter. He does not
come.

Alva. Says the messenger so?

Silva. No, my own heart tells me.

Alva. In thee speaks my evil genius. (After reading the letter, he makes
a sign to the two, and they retire to the gallery. Alva remains alone
in front of the stage.) He comes not! Till the last moment he delays
declaring himself. He ventures not to come! So then, the cautious man,
contrary to all expectations, is for once cautious enough to lay aside
his wonted caution. The hour moves on! Let the finger travel but a short
space over the dial, and a great work is done or lost--irrevocably lost;
for the opportunity can never be retrieved, nor can our intention remain
concealed. Long had I maturely weighed everything, foreseen even this
contingency, and firmly resolved in my own mind what, in that case, was
to be done; and now, when I am called upon to act, I can with difficulty
guard my mind from being again distracted by conflicting doubts. Is it
expedient to seize the others if he escape me? Shall I delay, and suffer
Egmont to elude my grasp, together with his friends, and so many others
who now, and perhaps for to-day only, are in my hands? How! Does destiny
control even thee--the uncontrollable? How long matured! How well
prepared! How great, how admirable the plan! How nearly had hope
attained the goal! And now, at the decisive moment, thou art placed
between two evils; as in a lottery, thou dost grasp in the dark future;
what thou hast drawn remains still unrolled, to thee unknown whether
it is a prize or a blank! (He becomes attentive, like one who hears a
noise, and steps to the window.) 'Tis he! Egmont! Did thy steed bear
thee hither so lightly, and started not at the scent of blood, at the
spirit with the naked sword who received thee at the gate? Dismount! Lo,
now thou hast one foot in the grave! And now both! Ay, caress him,
and for the last time stroke his neck for the gallant service he has
rendered thee. And for me no choice is left. The delusion, in which
Egmont ventures here to-day, cannot a second time deliver him into my
hands! Hark! (Ferdinand and Silva enter hastily.) Obey my orders! I
swerve not from my purpose. I shall detain Egmont here as best I may,
till you bring me tidings from Silva. Then remain at hand. Thee, too,
fate has robbed of the proud honour of arresting with thine own hand the
king's greatest enemy. (To Silva.) Be prompt! (To Ferdinand.) Advance to
meet him.

(Alva remains some moments alone, pacing the chamber in silence.)

[Enter Egmont.

Egmont. I come to learn the king's commands; to hear what service he
demands from our loyalty, which remains eternally devoted to him.

Alva. He desires, before all, to hear your counsel.

Egmont. Upon what subject? Does Orange come also? I thought to find him
here.

Alva. I regret that he fails us at this important crisis. The
king desires your counsel, your opinion as to the best means of
tranquillizing these states. He trusts indeed that you will zealously
co-operate with him in quelling these disturbances, and in securing to
these provinces the benefit of complete and permanent order.

Egmont. You, my lord, should know better than I, that tranquillity
is already sufficiently restored, and was still more so, till the
appearance of fresh troops again agitated the public mind, and filled it
anew with anxiety and alarm.

Alva. You seem to intimate that it would have been more advisable if the
king had not placed me in a position to interrogate you.

Egmont. Pardon me! It is not for me to determine whether the king acted
advisedly in sending the army hither, whether the might of his royal
presence alone would not have operated more powerfully. The army is
here, the king is not. But we should be most ungrateful were we to
forget what we owe to the Regent. Let it be acknowledged! By her
prudence and valour, by her judicious use of authority and force,
of persuasion and finesse, she pacified the insurgents, and, to the
astonishment of the world, succeeded, in the course of a few months, in
bringing a rebellious people back to their duty.

Alva. I deny it not. The insurrection is quelled; and the people appear
to be already forced back within the bounds of obedience. But does it
not depend upon their caprice alone to overstep these bounds? Who shall
prevent them from again breaking loose? Where is the power capable of
restraining them? Who will be answerable to us for their future loyalty
and submission? Their own goodwill is the sole pledge we have.

Egmont. And is not the good-will of a people the surest, the noblest
pledge? By heaven! when can a monarch hold himself more secure, ay, both
against foreign and domestic foes, than when all can stand for one, and
one for all?

Alva. You would not have us believe, however, that such is the case here
at present?

Egmont. Let the king proclaim a general pardon; he will thus
tranquillize the public mind; and it will be seen how speedily loyalty
and affection will return, when confidence is restored.

Alva. How! And suffer those who have insulted the majesty of the
king, who have violated the sanctuaries of our religion, to go abroad
unchallenged! living witnesses that enormous crimes may be perpetrated
with impunity!

Egmont. And ought not a crime of frenzy, of intoxication, to be excused,
rather than horribly chastised? Especially when there is the sure hope,
nay, more, where there is positive certainty that the evil will never
again recur? Would not sovereigns thus be more secure? Are not those
monarchs most extolled by the world and by posterity, who can pardon,
pity, despise an offence against their dignity? Are they not on that
account likened to God himself, who is far too exalted to be assailed by
every idle blasphemy?

Alva. And therefore, should the king contend for the honour of God and
of religion, we for the authority of the king. What the supreme power
disdains to avert, it is our duty to avenge. Were I to counsel, no
guilty person should live to rejoice in his impunity.

Egmont. Think you that you will be able to reach them all? Do we not
daily hear that fear is driving them to and fro, and forcing them out
of the land? The more wealthy will escape to other countries with their
property, their children, and their friends; while the poor will carry
their industrious hands to our neighbours.

Alva. They will, if they cannot be prevented. It is on this account that
the king desires counsel and aid from every prince, zealous co-operation
from every stadtholder; not merely a description of the present posture
of affairs, or conjectures as to what might take place were events
suffered to hold on their course without interruption. To contemplate a
mighty evil, to flatter oneself with hope, to trust to time, to strike
a blow, like the clown in a play, so as to make a noise and appear to do
something, when in fact one would fain do nothing; is not such conduct
calculated to awaken a suspicion that those who act thus contemplate
with satisfaction a rebellion, which they would not indeed excite, but
which they are by no means unwilling to encourage?

Egmont (about to break forth, restrains himself, and after a brief
pause, speaks with composure). Not every design is obvious, and many a
man's design is misconstrued. It is widely rumoured, however, that the
object which the king has in view is not so much to govern the provinces
according to uniform and dearly defined laws, to maintain the majesty of
religion, and to give his people universal peace, as unconditionally
to subjugate them, to rob them of their ancient rights, to appropriate
their possessions, to curtail the fair privileges of the nobles,
for whose sake alone they are ready to serve him with life and limb.
Religion, it is said, is merely a splendid device, behind which every
dangerous design may be contrived with the greater ease; the prostrate
crowds adore the sacred symbols pictured there, while behind lurks the
fowler ready to ensnare them.

Alva. This must I hear from you?

Egmont. I speak not my own sentiments! I but repeat what is loudly
rumoured, and uttered now here and now there by great and by humble, by
wise men and fools. The Netherlanders fear a double yoke, and who will
be surety to them for their liberty?

Alva. Liberty! A fair word when rightly understood. What liberty would
they have? What is the freedom of the most free? To do right! And in
that the monarch will not hinder them. No! No! They imagine themselves
enslaved, when they have not the power to injure themselves and others.
Would it not be better to abdicate at once, rather than rule such
a people? When the country is threatened by foreign invaders, the
burghers, occupied only with their immediate interests, bestow no
thought upon the advancing foe, and when the king requires their aid,
they quarrel among themselves, and thus, as it were, conspire with the
enemy. Far better is it to circumscribe their power, to control and
guide them for their good, as children are controlled and guided. Trust
me, a people grows neither old nor wise, a people remains always in its
infancy.

Egmont. How rarely does a king attain wisdom! And is it not fit that the
many should confide their interests to the many rather than to the one?
And not even to the one, but to the few servants of the one, men who
have grown old under the eyes of their master. To grow wise, it seems,
is the exclusive privilege of these favoured individuals.

Alva. Perhaps for the very reason that they are not left to themselves.

Egmont. And therefore they would fain leave no one else to his own
guidance. Let them do what they like, however; I have replied to your
questions, and I repeat, the measures you propose will never succeed!
They cannot succeed! I know my countrymen. They are men worthy to tread
God's earth; each complete in himself, a little king, steadfast, active,
capable, loyal, attached to ancient customs. It may be difficult to win
their confidence, but it is easy to retain it. Firm and unbending! They
may be crushed, but not subdued.

Alva (who during this speech has looked round several times). Would you
venture to repeat what you have uttered, in the king's presence?

Egmont. It were the worse, if in his presence I were restrained by
fear! The better for him and for his people, if he inspired me with
confidence, if he encouraged me to give yet freer utterance to my
thoughts.

Alva. What is profitable, I can listen to as well as he.

Egmont. I would say to him--'Tis easy for the shepherd to drive before
him a flock of sheep; the ox draws the plough without opposition; but
if you would ride the noble steed, you must study his thoughts, you must
require nothing unreasonable, nor unreasonably, from him. The burgher
desires to retain his ancient constitution; to be governed by his own
countrymen; and why? Because he knows in that case how he shall be
ruled, because he can rely upon their disinterestedness, upon their
sympathy with his fate.

Alva. And ought not the Regent to be empowered to alter these ancient
usages? Should not this constitute his fairest privilege? What is
permanent in this world? And shall the constitution of a state alone
remain unchanged? Must not every relation alter in the course of time,
and on that very account, an ancient constitution become the source of
a thousand evils, because not adapted to the present condition of the
people? These ancient rights afford, doubtless, convenient loopholes,
through which the crafty and the powerful may creep, and wherein
they may lie concealed, to the injury of the people and of the entire
community; and it is on this account, I fear, that they are held in such
high esteem.

Egmont. And these arbitrary changes, these unlimited encroachments of
the supreme power, are they not indications that one will permit himself
to do what is forbidden to thousands? The monarch would alone be free,
that he may have it in his power to gratify his every wish, to realize
his every thought. And though we should confide in him as a good and
virtuous sovereign, will he be answerable to us for his successor?
That none who come after him shall rule without consideration, without
forbearance! And who would deliver us from absolute caprice, should he
send hither his servants, his minions, who, without knowledge of the
country and its requirements, should govern according to their own good
pleasure, meet with no opposition, and know themselves exempt from all
responsibility?

Alva (who has meanwhile again looked round). There is nothing more
natural than that a king should choose to retain the power in his own
hands, and that he should select as the instruments of his authority,
those who best understand him, who desire to understand him, and who
will unconditionally execute his will.

Egmont. And just as natural is it, that the burgher should prefer being
governed by one born and reared in the same land, whose notions of right
and wrong are in harmony with his own, and whom he can regard as his
brother.

Alva. And yet the noble, methinks, has shared rather unequally with
these brethren of his.

Egmont. That took place centuries ago, and is now submitted to without
envy. But should new men, whose presence is not needed in the country,
be sent, to enrich themselves a second time, at the cost of the nation;
should the people see themselves exposed to their bold, unscrupulous
rapacity, it would excite a ferment that would not soon be quelled.

Alva. You utter words to which I ought not to listen;--I, too, am a
foreigner.

Egmont. That they are spoken in your presence is a sufficient proof that
they have no reference to you.

Alva. Be that as it may, I would rather not hear them from you. The king
sent me here in the hope that I should obtain the support of the
nobles. The king wills, and will have his will obeyed. After profound
deliberation, the king at length discerns what course will best promote
the welfare of the people; matters cannot be permitted to go on as
heretofore; it is the king's intention to limit their power for their
own good; if necessary, to force upon them their salvation: to sacrifice
the more dangerous burghers in order that the rest may find repose, and
enjoy in peace the blessing of a wise government, This is his resolve;
this I am commissioned to announce to the nobles; and in his name I
require from them advice, not as to the course to be pursued--on that
he is resolved--but as to the best means of carrying his purpose into
effect.

Egmont. Your words, alas, justify the fears of the people, the universal
fear! The king has then resolved as no sovereign ought to resolve. In
order to govern his subjects more easily, he would crush, subvert,
nay, ruthlessly destroy, their strength, their spirit, and their
self-respect! He would violate the inmost core of their individuality,
doubtless with the view of promoting their happiness. He would
annihilate them, that they may assume a new, a different form. Oh! if
his purpose be good, he is fatally misguided! It is not the king whom
we resist;--we but place ourselves in the way of the monarch, who,
unhappily, is about to take the first rash step in a wrong direction.

Alva. Such being your sentiments, it were a vain attempt for us to
endeavour to agree. You must indeed think poorly of the king, and
contemptibly of his counsellors, if you imagine that everything has not
already been thought of and maturely weighed. I have no commission a
second time to balance conflicting arguments. From the people I demand
submission;--and from you, their leaders and princes, I demand counsel
and support, as pledges of this unconditional duty.

Egmont. Demand our heads, and your object Is attained; to a noble soul
it must be indifferent whether he stoop his neck to such a yoke, or lay
it upon the block. I have spoken much to little purpose. I have agitated
the air, but accomplished nothing.

[Enter Ferdinand.

Ferdinand. Pardon my intrusion. Here is a letter, the bearer of which
urgently demands an answer.

Alva. Allow me to peruse its contents. (Steps aside.)

Ferdinand (to Egmont). 'Tis a noble steed that your people have brought,
to carry you away.

Egmont. I have seen worse. I have had him some time; I think of parting
with him. If he pleases you we shall probably soon agree as to the
price.

Ferdinand. We will think about it.

(Alva motions to his son, who retires to the back-ground.)

Egmont. Farewell! Allow me to retire; for, by heaven, I know not what
more I can say.

Alva. Fortunately for you, chance prevents you from making a fuller
disclosure of your sentiments. You incautiously lay bare the recesses of
your heart, and your own lips furnish evidence against you, more fatal
than could be produced by your bitterest adversary.

Egmont. This reproach disturbs me not. I know my own heart; I know with
what honest zeal I am devoted to the king; I know that my allegiance
is more true than that of many who, in his service, seek only to
serve themselves. I regret that our discussion should terminate so
unsatisfactorily, and trust that in spite of our opposing views, the
service of the king, our master, and the welfare of our country, may
speedily unite us; another conference, the presence of the princes
who to-day are absent, may, perchance, in a more propitious moment,
accomplish what at present appears impossible. In this hope I take my
leave.

Alva (who at the same time makes a sign to Ferdinand). Hold,
Egmont!--Your sword!-(The centre door opens and discloses the gallery,
which is occupied with guards, who remain motionless.)

Egmont (after a pause of astonishment). This was the intention? For this
thou hast summoned me? (Grasping his sword as if to defend himself.) Am
I then weaponless?

Alva. The king commands. Thou art my prisoner. (At the same time guards
enter from both sides.)

Egmont (after a pause). The king?--Orange! Orange! (after a pause,
resigning his sword). Take it! It has been employed far oftener in
defending the cause of my king than in protecting this breast.

(He retires by the centre door, followed by the guard and Alva's son.
Alva remains standing while the curtain falls.)




ACT V



SCENE I.--A Street. Twilight

Clara, Brackenburg, Burghers

Brackenburg. Dearest, for Heaven's sake, what wouldst thou do?

Clara. Come with me, Brackenburg! Thou canst not know the people, we
are certain to rescue him; for what can equal their love for him? Each
feels, I could swear it, the burning desire to deliver him, to avert
danger from a life so precious, and to restore freedom to the most free.
Come! A voice only is wanting to call them together. In their souls the
memory is still fresh of all they owe him, and well they know that his
mighty arm alone shields them from destruction. For his sake, for their
own sake, they must peril everything. And what do we peril? At most, our
lives, which if he perish, are not worth preserving.

Brackenburg. Unhappy girl! Thou seest not the power that holds us
fettered as with bands of iron.

Clara. To me it does not appear invincible. Let us not lose time in idle
words. Here comes some of our old, honest, valiant burghers! Hark ye,
friends! Neighbours! Hark!--Say, how fares it with Egmont?

Carpenter. What does the girl want? Tell her to hold her peace.

Clara. Step nearer, that we may speak low, till we are united and more
strong. Not a moment is to be lost! Audacious tyranny, that dared to
fetter him, already lifts the dagger against his life. Oh, my friends!
With the advancing twilight my anxiety grows more intense. I dread this
night. Come! Let us disperse; let us hasten from quarter to quarter, and
call out the burghers. Let every one grasp his ancient weapons. In the
market-place we meet again, and every one will be carried onward by our
gathering stream. The enemy will see themselves surrounded, overwhelmed,
and be compelled to yield. How can a handful of slaves resist us? And
he will return among us, he will see himself rescued, and can for once
thank us, us, who are already so deeply in his debt. He will behold,
perchance, ay doubtless, he will again behold the morn's red dawn in the
free heavens.

Carpenter. What ails thee, maiden?

Clara. Can ye misunderstand me? I speak of the Count! I speak of Egmont.

Jetter. Speak not the name! 'tis deadly.

Clara. Not speak his name? How? Not Egmont's name? Is it not on every
tongue? Where stands it not inscribed? Often have I read it emblazoned
with all its letters among these stars. Not utter it? What mean ye?
Friends! good, kind neighbours, ye are dreaming; collect yourselves.
Gaze not upon me with those fixed and anxious looks! Cast not such timid
glances on every side! I but give utterance to the wish of all. Is not
my voice the voice of your own hearts? Who, in this fearful night, ere
he seeks his restless couch, but on bended knee will, in earnest prayer,
seek to wrest his life as a cherished boon from heaven? Ask each other!
Let each ask his own heart! And who but exclaims with me,--"Egmont's
liberty, or death!"

Jetter. God help us! This is a sad business.

Clara. Stay! Stay! Shrink not away at the sound of his name, to meet
whom ye were wont to press forward so joyously!--When rumour announced
his approach, when the cry arose, "Egmont comes! He comes from
Ghent!"--then happy indeed were those citizens who dwelt in the streets
through which he was to pass. And when the neighing of his steed was
heard, did not every one throw aside his work, while a ray of hope and
joy, like a sunbeam from his countenance, stole over the toil-worn faces
that peered from every window. Then, as ye stood in the doorways, ye
would lift up your children in your arms, and pointing to him, exclaim:
"See, that is Egmont, he who towers above the rest! 'Tis from bird that
ye must look for better times than those your poor fathers have known."
Let not your children inquire at some future day, "Where is he? Where
are the better times ye promised us?"--Thus we waste the time in idle
words! do nothing,--betray him.

Soest. Shame on thee, Brackenburg! Let her not run on thus! Prevent the
mischief!

Brackenburg. Dear Clara! Let us go! What will your Mother say?
Perchance--

Clara. Thinkest thou I am a child, or frantic? What avails
perchance?--With no vain hope canst thou hide from me this dreadful
certainty... Ye shall hear me and ye will: for I see it, ye are
overwhelmed, ye cannot hearken to the voice of your own hearts. Through
the present peril cast but one glance into the past,--the recent past.
Send your thoughts forward into the future. Could ye live, would ye
live, were he to perish? With him expires the last breath of freedom.
What was he not to you? For whose sake did he expose himself to the
direst perils? His blood flowed, his wounds were healed for you alone.
The mighty spirit, that upheld you all, a dungeon now confines, while
the horrors of secret murder are hovering around. Perhaps he thinks of
you--perhaps he hopes in you,--he who has been accustomed only to grant
favours to others and to fulfil their prayers.

Carpenter. Come, gossip.

Clara. I have neither the arms, nor the vigour of a man; but I have
that which ye all lack--courage and contempt of danger. O that my breath
could kindle your souls! That, pressing you to this bosom, I could
arouse and animate you! Come! I will march in your midst!--As a waving
banner, though weaponless, leads on a gallant army of warriors, so shall
my spirit hover, like a flame, over your ranks, while love and courage
shall unite the dispersed and wavering multitude into a terrible host.

Jetter. Take her away; I pity her, poor thing!

[Exeunt Burgers.

Brackenburg. Clara! Seest thou not where we are?

Clara. Where? Under the dome of heaven, which has so often seemed to
arch itself more gloriously as the noble Egmont passed beneath it. From
these windows I have seen them look forth, four or five heads one above
the other; at these doors the cowards have stood, bowing and scraping,
if he but chanced to look down upon them! Oh, how dear they were to me,
when they honoured him. Had he been a tyrant they might have turned with
indifference from his fall! But they loved him! O ye hands, so prompt
to wave caps in his honour, can ye not grasp a sword? Brackenburg, and
we?--do we chide them? These arms that have so often embraced him, what
do they for him now? Stratagem has accomplished so much in the
world. Thou knowest the ancient castle, every passage, every secret
way.--Nothing is impossible,--suggest some plan--

Brackenburg. That we might go home!

Clara. Well.

Brackenburg. There at the corner I see Alva's guard; let the voice of
reason penetrate to thy heart! Dost thou deem me a coward? Dost thou
doubt that for thy sake I would peril my life? Here we are both mad,
I as well as thou. Dost thou not perceive that thy scheme is
impracticable? Oh, be calm! Thou art beside thyself.

Clara. Beside myself! Horrible. You, Brackenburg, are beside yourself.
When you hailed the hero with loud acclaim, called him your friend,
your hope, your refuge, shouted vivats as he passed;--then I stood in my
corner, half opened the window, concealed myself while I listened, and
my heart beat higher than yours who greeted him so loudly. Now it again
beats higher! In the hour of peril you conceal yourselves, deny him, and
feel not, that if he perish, you are lost.

Brackenburg. Come home.

Clara. Home?

Brackenburg. Recollect thyself! Look around thee! These are the streets
in which thou wert wont to appear only on the Sabbath-day, when thou
didst walk modestly to church; where, over-decorous perhaps, thou wert
displeased if I but joined thee with a kindly greeting. And now thou
dost stand, speak, and act before the eyes of the whole world. Recollect
thyself, love! How can this avail us?

Clara. Home! Yes, I remember. Come, Brackenburg, let us go home! Knowest
thou where my home lies?

[Exeunt.



SCENE II.--A Prison

Lighted by a lamp, a couch in the background

Egmont (alone). Old friend! Ever faithful sleep, dost thou too forsake
me, like my other friends? How wert thou wont of yore to descend
unsought upon my free brow, cooling my temples as with a myrtle wreath
of love! Amidst the din of battle, on the waves of life, I rested in
thine arms, breathing lightly as a growing boy. When tempests whistled
through the leaves and boughs, when the summits of the lofty trees swung
creaking in the blast, the inmost core of my heart remained unmoved.
What agitates thee now? What shakes thy firm and steadfast mind? I feel
it, 'tis the sound of the murderous axe, gnawing at thy root. Yet
I stand erect, but an inward shudder runs through my frame. Yes, it
prevails, this treacherous power; it undermines the firm, the lofty
stem, and ere the bark withers, thy verdant crown falls crashing to the
earth.

Yet wherefore now, thou who hast so often chased the weightiest cares
like bubbles from thy brow, wherefore canst thou not dissipate this dire
foreboding which incessantly haunts thee in a thousand different shapes?
Since when hast thou trembled at the approach of death, amid whose
varying forms, thou wert wont calmly to dwell, as with the other shapes
of this familiar earth. But 'tis not he, the sudden foe, to encounter
whom the sound bosom emulously pants;---'tis the dungeon, emblem of the
grave, revolting alike to the hero and the coward. How intolerable I
used to feel it, in the stately hall, girt round by gloomy walls, when,
seated on my cushioned chair, in the solemn assembly of the princes,
questions, which scarcely required deliberation, were overlaid with
endless discussions, while the rafters of the ceiling seemed to stifle
and oppress me. Then I would hurry forth as soon as possible, fling
myself upon my horse with deep-drawn breath, and away to the wide
champaign, man's natural element, where, exhaling from the earth,
nature's richest treasures are poured forth around us, while, from the
wide heavens, the stars shed down their blessings through the still
air; where, like earth-born giants, we spring aloft, invigorated by our
Mother's touch; where our entire humanity and our human desires throb in
every vein; where the desire to press forward, to vanquish, to snatch,
to use his clenched fist, to possess, to conquer, glows through the soul
of the young hunter; where the warrior, with rapid stride, assumes his
inborn right to dominion over the world; and, with terrible liberty,
sweeps like a desolating hailstorm over the field and grove, knowing no
boundaries traced by the hand of man.

Thou art but a shadow, a dream of the happiness I so long possessed;
where has treacherous fate conducted thee? Did she deny thee to meet the
rapid stroke of never-shunned death, in the open face of day, only
to prepare for thee a foretaste of the grave, in the midst of this
loathsome corruption? How revolting its rank odour exhales from these
damp stones! Life stagnates, and my foot shrinks from the couch as from
the grave. Oh care, care! Thou who dost begin prematurely the work of
murder,--forbear;--Since when has Egmont been alone, so utterly alone
in the world? 'Tis doubt renders thee insensible, not happiness. The
justice of the king, in which through life thou hast confided, the
friendship of the Regent, which, thou mayst confess it, was akin to
love,--have these suddenly vanished, like a meteor of the night, and
left thee alone upon thy gloomy path? Will not Orange, at the head of
thy friends, contrive some daring scheme? Will not the people assemble,
and with gathering might, attempt the rescue of their faithful friend?

Ye walls, which thus gird me round, separate me not from the
well-intentioned zeal of so many kindly souls. And may the courage with
which my glance was wont to inspire them, now return again from their
hearts to mine. Yes! they assemble in thousands! they come! they stand
beside me! their pious wish rises urgently to heaven, and implores a
miracle; and if no angel stoops for my deliverance, I see them grasp
eagerly their lance and sword. The gates are forced, the bolts are
riven, the walls fall beneath their conquering hands, and Egmont
advances joyously, to hail the freedom of the rising morn. How many
well-known faces receive me with loud acclaim! O Clara! wert thou a man,
I should see thee here the very first, and thank thee for that which it
is galling to owe even to a king--liberty.



SCENE III.--Clara's House

Clara (enters from her chamber with a lamp and a glass of water; she
places the glass upon the table and steps to the window).

Brackenburg, is it you? What noise was that? No one yet? No one! I will
set the lamp in the window, that he may see that I am still awake,
that I still watch for him. He promised me tidings. Tidings? horrible
certainty!--Egmont condemned!--what tribunal has the right to summon
him?--And they dare to condemn him!--Does the king condemn him, or the
duke? And the Regent withdraws herself! Orange hesitates, and all his
friends!--Is this the world, of whose fickleness and treachery I have
heard so much, and as yet experienced nothing? Is this the world?--Who
could be so base as to hear malice against one so dear? Could villainy
itself be audacious enough to overwhelm with sudden destruction the
object of a nation's homage? Yet so it is--it is-O Egmont, I held thee
safe before God and man, safe as in my arms! What was I to thee. Thou
hast called me thine, my whole being was devoted to thee. What am I
now? In vain I stretch out my hand to the toils that environ thee. Thou
helpless and I free!--Here is the key that unlocks my chamber door. My
going out and my coming in, depend upon my own caprice; yet, alas; to
aid thee I am powerless!--Oh, bind me that I may not despair; hurl
me into the deepest dungeon, that I may dash my head against the damp
walls, groan for freedom, and dream how I would rescue him if fetters
did not hold me bound.--Now I am free, and in freedom lies the anguish
of impotence.--Conscious of my own existence, yet unable to stir a limb
in his behalf, alas! even this insignificant portion of thy being, thy
Clara, is, like thee, a captive, and, separated from thee, consumes her
expiring energies in the agonies of death.--I hear a stealthy step,--a
cough--Brackenburg,--'tis he!--Kind, unhappy man, thy destiny remains
ever the same; thy love opens to thee the door at night, alas! to what a
doleful meeting.

(Enter Brackenburg.) Thou com'st so pale, so terrified! Brackenburg!
What is it?

Brackenburg. I have sought thee through perils and circuitous paths. The
principal streets are occupied with troops;--through lanes and by-ways
have I stolen to thee!

Clara. Tell me, how is it?

Brackenburg (seating himself). O Clara, let me weep. I loved him not. He
was the rich man who lured to better a pasture the poor man's solitary
lamb. I have never cursed him, God has created me with a true and tender
heart. My life was consumed in anguish, and each day I hoped would end
my misery.

Clara. Let that be forgotten, Brackenburg! Forget thyself. Speak to me
of him! Is it true? Is he condemned?

Brackenburg. He is! I know it.

Clara. And still lives?

Brackenburg. Yes, he still lives.

Clara. How canst thou be sure of that? Tyranny murders the hero in the
night! His blood flows concealed from every eye. The people stunned
and bewildered, lie buried in sleep, dream of deliverance, dream of the
fulfilment of their impotent wishes, while, indignant at our supineness,
his spirit abandons the world. He is no more! Deceive me not; deceive
not thyself!

Brackenburg. No,--he lives! and the Spaniards, alas, are preparing for
the people, on whom they are about to trample, a terrible spectacle, in
order to crush for ever, by a violent blow, each heart that yet pants
for freedom.

Clara. Proceed! Calmly pronounce my death-warrant also! Near and more
near I approach that blessed land, and already from those realms of
peace, I feel the breath of consolation say on.

Brackenburg. From casual words, dropped here and there by the guards,
I learned that secretly in the market-place they were preparing some
terrible spectacle. Through by-ways and familiar lanes I stole to
my cousin's house, and from a back window, looked out upon the
market-place. Torches waved to and fro, in the hands of a wide circle
of Spanish soldiers. I sharpened my unaccustomed sight, and out of the
darkness there arose before me a scaffold, black, spacious, and lofty!
The sight filled me with horror. Several persons were employed in
covering with black cloth such portions of the wood-work as yet remained
white and visible. The steps were covered last, also with black;--I
saw it all. They seemed preparing for the celebration of some horrible
sacrifice. A white crucifix, that shone like silver through the night,
was raised on one side. As I gazed the terrible conviction strengthened
in my mind. Scattered torches still gleamed here and there; gradually
they flickered and went out. Suddenly the hideous birth of night
returned into its Mother's womb.

Clara. Hush, Brackenburg! Be still! Let this veil rest upon my soul. The
spectres are vanished; and thou, gentle night, lend thy mantle to the
inwardly fermenting earth, she will no longer endure the loathsome
burden, shuddering, she rends open her yawning chasms, and with a crash
swallows the murderous scaffold. And that God, whom in their rage they
have insulted, sends down His angel from on high; at the hallowed touch
of the messenger bolts and bars fly back; he pours around our friend
a mild radiance, and leads him gently through the night to liberty. My
path leads also through the darkness to meet him.

Brackenburg (detaining her). My child, whither wouldst thou go? What
wouldst thou do?

Clara. Softly, my friend, lest some one should awake! Lest we should
awake ourselves! Know'st thou this phial, Brackenburg? I took it from
thee once in jest, when thou, as was thy wont, didst threaten, in thy
impatience, to end thy days.--And now my friend--

Brackenburg. In the name of all the saints!

Clara. Thou canst not hinder me. Death is my portion! Grudge me not
the quiet and easy death which thou hadst prepared for thyself. Give
me thine hand!--At the moment when I unclose that dismal portal through
which there is no return, I may tell thee, with this pressure of the
hand, how sincerely I have loved, how deeply I have pitied thee. My
brother died young; I chose thee to fill his place; thy heart rebelled,
thou didst torment thyself and me, demanding with ever increasing
fervour that which fate had not destined for thee. Forgive me and
farewell! Let me call thee brother! 'Tis a name that embraces many
names. Receive, with a true heart, the last fair token of the departing
spirit--take this kiss. Death unites all, Brackenburg--us too it will
unite!

Brackenburg. Let me then die with thee! Share it! oh, share it! There is
enough to extinguish two lives.

Clara. Hold! Thou must live, thou canst live.--Support my Mother, who,
without thee, would be a prey to want. Be to her what I can no longer
be, live together, and weep for me. Weep for our fatherland, and for him
who could alone have upheld it. The present generation must still endure
this bitter woe; vengeance itself could not obliterate it. Poor souls,
live on, through this gap in time, which is time no longer. To-day the
world suddenly stands still, its course is arrested, and my pulse will
beat but for a few minutes longer. Farewell.

Brackenburg. Oh, live with us, as we live only for thy sake! In taking
thine own life, thou wilt take ours also; still live and suffer. We
will stand by thee, nothing shall sever us from thy side, and love,
with ever-watchful solicitude, shall prepare for thee the sweetest
consolation in its loving arms. Be ours! Ours! I dare not say, mine.

Clara. Hush, Brackenburg! Thou feelest not what chord thou touchest.
Where hope appears to thee, I see only despair.

Brackenburg. Share hope with the living! Pause on the brink of the
precipice, cast one glance into the gulf below, and then look back on
us.

Clara. I have conquered; call me not back to the struggle.

Brackenburg. Thou art stunned; enveloped in night, thou seekest the
abyss. Every light is not yet extinguished, yet many days--!

Clara. Alas! Alas! Cruelly thou dost rend the veil from before mine
eyes. Yes, the day will dawn! Despite its misty shroud it needs must
dawn. Timidly the burgher razes from his window, night leaves behind an
ebon speck; he looks, and the scaffold looms fearfully in the morning
light. With re-awakened anguish the desecrated image of the Saviour
lifts to the Father its imploring eyes. The sun veils his beams, he will
not mark the hero's death-hour. Slowly the fingers go their round--one
hour strikes after another--hold! Now is the time. The thought of the
morning scares me into the grave.

(She goes to the window as if to look out, and drinks secretly.)

Brackenburg. Clara! Clara!

Clara (goes to the table, and drinks water). Here is the remainder. I
invite thee not to follow me. Do as thou wilt; farewell. Extinguish this
lamp silently and without delay; I am going to rest. Steal quietly
away, close the door after thee. Be still! Wake not my Mother! Go, save
thyself, if thou wouldst not be taken for my murderer. [Exit.

Brackenburg. She leaves me for the last time as she has ever done. What
human soul could conceive how cruelly she lacerates the heart that
loves her? She leaves me to myself, leaves me to choose between life and
death, and both are alike hateful to me. To die alone! Weep, ye tender
souls! Fate has no sadder doom than mine. She shares with me the
death-potion, yet sends me from her side! She draws me after her, yet
thrusts me back into life! Oh, Egmont, how enviable a lot falls to thee!
She goes before thee! The crown of victory from her hand is thine, she
brings all heaven to meet thee!--And shall I follow? Again to stand
aloof? To carry this inextinguishable jealousy even to yon distant
realms? Earth is no longer a tarrying place for me, and hell and heaven
offer equal torture. Now welcome to the wretched the dread hand of
annihilation!

[Exit. (The scene remains some time unchanged. Music sounds, indicating
Clara's death; the lamp, which Brackenburg had forgotten to extinguish,
flares up once or twice, and then suddenly expires. The scene changes
to.)



SCENE IV.--A Prison

Egmont is discovered sleeping on a couch. A rustling of keys is heard;
the door opens; servants enter with torches; Ferdinand and Silva follow,
accompanied by soldiers. Egmont starts from his sleep.

Egmont. Who are ye that thus rudely banish slumber from my eyes? What
mean these vague and insolent glances? Why this fearful procession? With
what dream of horror come ye to delude my half awakened soul?

Silva. The duke sends us to announce your sentence.

Egmont. Do ye also bring the headsman who is to execute it?

Silva. Listen, and you will know the doom that awaits you.

Egmont. It is in keeping with the rest of your infamous proceedings.
Hatched in night and in night achieved, so would this audacious act of
injustice shroud itself from observation!--Step boldly forth, thou who
dost bear the sword concealed beneath thy mantle; here is my head, the
freest ever severed by tyranny from the trunk.

Silva. You err! The righteous judges who have condemned you will not
conceal their sentence from the light of day.

Egmont. Then does their audacity exceed all imagination and belief.
Silva (takes the sentence from an attendant, unfolds it, and reads). "In
the King's name, and invested by his Majesty with authority to judge all
his subjects of whatever rank, not excepting the knights of the Golden
Fleece, we declare---"

Egmont. Can the king transfer that authority?

Silva. "We declare, after a strict and legal investigation, thee, Henry,
Count Egmont, Prince of Gaure, guilty of high treason, and pronounce
thy sentence:--That at early dawn thou be led from this prison to the
market-place, and that there, in sight of the people, and as a warning
to all traitors, thou with the sword be brought from life to death.
Given at Brussels." (Date and year so indistinctly read as to be
imperfectly heard by the audience.) "Ferdinand, Duke of Alva, President
of the Tribunal of Twelve." Thou knowest now thy doom. Brief time
remains for thee to prepare for the impending stroke, to arrange thy
affairs, and to take leave of thy friends.

[Exit Silva with followers. Ferdinand remains with two torch-bearers.
The stage is dimly lighted.

Egmont (stands for a time as if buried in thought, and allows Silva to
retire without looking round. He imagines himself alone, and, on raising
his eyes, beholds Alva's son).

Thou tarriest here? Wouldst thou by thy presence augment my amazement,
my horror? Wouldst thou carry to thy father the welcome tidings that
in unmanly fashion I despair? Go. Tell him that he deceives neither the
world nor me. At first it will be whispered cautiously behind his
back, then spoken more and more loudly, and when at some future day the
ambitious man descends from his proud eminence, a thousand voices will
proclaim--that 'twas not the welfare of the state, not the honour of the
king, not the tranquillity of the provinces, that brought him hither.
For his own selfish ends he, the warrior, has counselled war, that in
war the value of his services might be enhanced. He has excited this
monstrous insurrection that his presence might be deemed necessary
in order to quell it. And I fall a victim to his mean hatred, his
contemptible envy. Yes, I know it, dying and mortally wounded I may
utter it; long has the proud man envied me, long has he meditated and
planned my ruin.

Even then, when still young, we played at dice together, and the heaps
of gold, one after the other, passed rapidly from his side to mine;
he would look on with affected composure, while inwardly consumed with
rage, more at my success than at his own loss. Well do I remember the
fiery glance, the treacherous pallor that overspread his features when,
at a public festival, we shot for a wager before assembled thousands.
He challenged me, and both nations stood by; Spaniards and Netherlanders
wagered on either side; I was the victor; his ball missed, mine hit the
mark, and the air was rent by acclamations from my friends. His shot
now hits me. Tell him that I know this, that I know him, that the world
despises every trophy that a paltry spirit erects for itself by base and
surreptitious arts. And thou!

If it be possible for a son to swerve from the manners of his father,
practise shame betimes, while thou art compelled to feel shame for him
whom thou wouldst fain revere with thy whole heart.

Ferdinand. I listen without interrupting thee! Thy reproaches fall like
blows upon a helmet. I feel the shock, but I am armed. They strike, they
wound me not; I am sensible only to the anguish that lacerates my heart.
Alas! Alas! Have I lived to witness such a scene? Am I sent hither to
behold a spectacle like this?

Egmont. Dost thou break out into lamentations? What moves, what agitates
thee thus? Is it a late remorse at having lent thyself to this infamous
conspiracy? Thou art so young, thy exterior is so prepossessing? Thy
demeanour towards me was so friendly, so unreserved! So long as I beheld
thee, I was reconciled with thy father; and crafty, ay, more crafty than
he, thou hast lured me into the toils. Thou art the wretch! The
monster! Who so confides in him, does so at his own peril; but who could
apprehend danger in trusting thee? Go! Go! rob me not of the few moments
that are left me! Go, that I may collect my thoughts, the world forget,
and first of all thyself!

Ferdinand. What can I say? I stand and gaze on thee, yet see thee not;
I am scarcely conscious of my own existence. Shall I seek to excuse
myself? Shall I assure thee that it was not till the last moment that I
was made aware of my father's intentions? That I acted as a constrained,
a passive instrument of his will? What signifies now the opinion thou
mayst entertain of me? Thou art lost; and I, miserable wretch, stand
here only to assure thee of it, only to lament thy doom.

Egmont. What strange voice, what unexpected consolation comes thus to
cheer my passage to the grave? Thou, the son of my first, of almost
my only enemy, thou dost pity me, thou art not associated with my
murderers? Speak! In what light must I regard thee?

Ferdinand. Cruel father! Yes, I recognize thy nature in this command.
Thou didst know my heart, my disposition, which thou hast so often
censured as the inheritance of a tender-hearted Mother. To mould me
into thine own likeness thou hast sent me hither. Thou dost compel me
to behold this man on the verge of the yawning grave, in the grasp of
an arbitrary doom, that I may experience the profoundest anguish; that
thus, rendered callous to every fate, I may henceforth meet every event
with a heart unmoved.

Egmont. I am amazed! Be calm! Act, speak like a man.

Ferdinand. Oh, that I were a woman! That they might say--what moves,
what agitates thee? Tell me of a greater, a more monstrous crime, make
me the spectator of a more direful deed; I will thank thee, I will say:
this was nothing.

Egmont. Thou dost forget thyself. Consider where thou art!

Ferdinand. Let this passion rage, let me give vent to my anguish! I will
not seem composed when my whole inner being is convulsed. Thee must
I behold here? Thee? It is horrible! Thou understandest me not! How
shouldst thou understand me? Egmont! Egmont!

(Falling on his neck.)

Egmont. Explain this mystery.

Ferdinand. It is no mystery.

Egmont. How can the fate of a mere stranger thus deeply move thee?

Ferdinand. Not a stranger! Thou art no stranger to me. Thy name it was
that, even from my boyhood, shone before me like a star in heaven! How
often have I made inquiries concerning thee, and listened to the story
of thy deeds! The youth is the hope of the boy, the man of the youth.
Thus didst thou walk before me, ever before me; I saw thee without envy,
and followed after, step by step; at length I hoped to see thee--I saw
thee, and my heart flew to thy embrace. I had destined thee for myself,
and when I beheld thee, I made choice of thee anew. I hoped now to know
thee, to live with thee, to be thy friend,--thy--'tis over now and I see
thee here!

Egmont. My friend, if it can be any comfort to thee, be assured that the
very moment we met my heart was drawn towards thee. Now listen! Let
us exchange a few quiet words. Tell me: is it the stern, the settled
purpose of thy father to take my life?

Ferdinand. It is.

Egmont. This sentence is not a mere empty scarecrow, designed to terrify
me, to punish me through fear and intimidation, to humiliate me, that he
may then raise me again by the royal favour?

Ferdinand. Alas, no! At first I flattered myself with this delusive
hope; and even then my heart was filled with grief and anguish to behold
thee thus. Thy doom is real! Is certain! No, I cannot command myself.
Who will counsel, who will aid me, to meet the inevitable?

Egmont. Hearken then to me! If thy heart is impelled so powerfully in
my favour, if thou dost abhor the tyranny that holds me fettered,
then deliver me! The moments are precious. Thou art the son of the
all-powerful, and thou hast power thyself. Let us fly! I know the roads;
the means of effecting our escape cannot be unknown to thee. These
walls, a few short miles, alone separate me from my friends. Loose these
fetters, conduct me to them; be ours. The king, on some future day, will
doubtless thank my deliverer. Now he is taken by surprise, or perchance
he is ignorant of the whole proceeding. Thy father ventures on this
daring step, and majesty, though horror-struck at the deed, must needs
sanction the irrevocable. Thou dost deliberate? Oh, contrive for me the
way to freedom! Speak; nourish hope in a living soul.

Ferdinand. Cease! Oh, cease! Every word deepens my despair. There is
here no outlet, no counsel, no escape.--'Tis this thought that tortures
me, that seizes my heart, and rends it as with talons. I have myself
spread the net; I know its firm, inextricable knots; I know that every
avenue is barred alike to courage and to stratagem. I feel that I too,
like thyself, like all the rest, am fettered. Think'st thou that I
should give way to lamentation if any means of safety remained untried?
I have thrown myself at his feet, remonstrated, implored. He has sent me
hither, in order to blast in this fatal moment, every remnant of joy and
happiness that yet survived within my heart.

Egmont. And is there no deliverance?

Ferdinand. None!

Egmont (stamping his foot). No deliverance!-Sweet life! Sweet, pleasant
habitude of existence and of activity! from thee must I part! So calmly
part! Not in the tumult of battle, amid the din of arms, the excitement
of the fray, dost thou send me a hasty farewell; thine is no hurried
leave; thou dost not abridge the moment of separation. Once more let me
clasp thy hand, gaze once more into thine eyes, feel with keen emotion,
thy beauty and thy worth, then resolutely tear myself away, and
say;--depart!

Ferdinand. Must I stand by, and look passively on; unable to save thee,
or to give thee aid! What voice avails for lamentation! What heart but
must break under the pressure of such anguish?

Egmont. Be calm!

Ferdinand. Thou canst be calm, thou canst renounce, led on by necessity,
thou canst advance to the direful struggle, with the courage of a hero.
What can I do? What ought I to do? Thou dost conquer thyself and us;
thou art the victor; I survive both myself and thee. I have lost my
light at the banquet, my banner on the field. The future lies before me,
dark, desolate, perplexed.

Egmont. Young friend, whom by a strange fatality, at the same moment,
I both win and lose, who dost feel for me, who dost suffer for me the
agonies of death,--look on me;--thou wilt not lose me. If my life was
a mirror in which thou didst love to contemplate thyself, so be also
my death. Men are not together only when in each other's presence;--the
distant, the departed, also live for us. I shall live for thee, and for
myself I have lived long enough. I have enjoyed each day; each day,
I have performed, with prompt activity, the duties enjoined by my
conscience. Now my life ends, as it might have ended, long, long, ago,
on the sands of Gravelines. I shall cease to live; but I have lived. My
friend, follow in my steps, lead a cheerful and a joyous life, and dread
not the approach of death.

Ferdinand. Thou shouldst have saved thyself for us, thou couldst have
saved thyself. Thou art the cause of thine own destruction. Often have
I listened when able men discoursed concerning thee; foes and friends,
they would dispute long as to thy worth; but on one point they were
agreed, none ventured to deny, every one confessed, that thou wert
treading a dangerous path. How often have I longed to warn thee! Hadst
thou then no friends?

Egmont. I was warned.

Ferdinand. And when I found all these allegations, point for point, in
the indictment, together with thy answers, containing much that might
serve to palliate thy conduct, but no evidence weighty enough fully to
exculpate thee--

Egmont. No more of this. Man imagines that he directs his life, that
he governs his actions, when in fact his existence is irresistibly
controlled by his destiny. Let us not dwell upon this subject; these
reflections I can dismiss with ease--not so my apprehensions for these
provinces; yet they too will be cared for. Could my blood flow for many,
bring peace to my people, how freely should it flow! Alas! This may not
be. Yet it ill becomes a man idly to speculate, when the power to act
is no longer his. If thou canst restrain or guide the fatal power of thy
father; do so. Alas, who can?--Farewell!

Ferdinand. I cannot leave thee.

Egmont. Let me urgently recommend my followers to thy care! I have
worthy men in my service; let them not be dispersed, let them not become
destitute! How fares it with Richard, my secretary?

Ferdinand. He is gone before thee. They have beheaded him, as thy
accomplice in high treason.

Egmont. Poor soul!--Yet one word, and then farewell, I can no more.
However powerfully the spirit may be stirred, nature at length
irresistibly asserts her rights; and like a child, who, enveloped in
a serpent's folds, enjoys refreshing slumber, so the weary one lays
himself down to rest before the gates of death, and sleeps soundly, as
though a toilsome journey yet lay before him.--One word more,--I know
a maiden; thou wilt not despise her because she was mine. Since I can
recommend her to thy care, I shall die in peace. Thy soul is noble; in
such a man, a woman is sure to find a protector. Lives my old Adolphus?
Is he free?

Ferdinand. The active old man, who always attended thee on horseback?

Egmont. The same.

Ferdinand. He lives, he is free.

Egmont. He knows her dwelling; let him guide thy steps thither, and
reward him to his dying day, for having shown thee the way to this
jewel.--Farewell!

Ferdinand. I cannot leave thee.

Egmont (urging him towards the door). Farewell!

Ferdinand. Oh, let me linger yet a moment!

Egmont. No leave-taking, my friend.

(He accompanies Ferdinand to the door, and then tears himself away;
Ferdinand, overwhelmed with grief, hastily retires.)

Egmont (alone)

Egmont. Cruel man! Thou didst not think to render me this service
through thy son. He has been the means of relieving my mind from the
pressure of care and sorrow, from fear and every anxious feeling.
Gently, yet urgently, nature claims her final tribute. 'Tis past!--'Tis
resolved! And the reflections which, in the suspense of last night, kept
me wakeful on my couch, now with resistless certainty lull my senses to
repose.

(He seats himself upon the couch; music)

Sweet sleep! Like the purest happiness, thou comest most willingly,
uninvited, unsought. Thou dost loosen the knots of earnest thoughts,
dost mingle all images of joy and of sorrow, unimpeded the circle of
inner harmony flows on, and wrapped in fond delusion, we sink into
oblivion, and cease to be.

(He sleeps; music accompanies his slumber. Behind his couch the wall
appears to open and discovers a brilliant apparition. Freedom, in a
celestial garb, surrounded by a glory, reposes on a cloud. Her features
are those of Clara and she inclines towards the sleeping hero. Her
countenance betokens compassion, she seems to lament his fate. Quickly
she recovers herself and with an encouraging gesture exhibits the
symbols of freedom, the bundle of arrows, with the staff and cap. She
encourages him to be of good cheer, and while she signifies to him that
his death will secure the freedom of the provinces, she hails him as a
conqueror, and extends to him a laurel crown. As the wreath approaches
his head, Egmont moves like one asleep, and reclines with his face
towards her. She holds the wreath suspended over his head,--martial
music is heard in the distance, at the first sound the vision
disappears. The music grows louder and louder. Egmont awakes. The prison
is dimly illuminated by the dawn.--His first impulse is to lift his hand
to his head, he stands up, and gazes round, his hand still upraised.)

The crown is vanished! Beautiful vision, the light of day has frighted
thee! Yes, their revealed themselves to my sight uniting in one radiant
form the two sweetest joys of my heart. Divine Liberty borrowed the mien
of my beloved one; the lovely maiden arrayed herself in the celestial
garb of my friend. In a solemn moment they appeared united, with aspect
more earnest than tender. With bloodstained feet the vision approached,
the waving folds of her robe also were tinged with blood. It was my
blood, and the blood of many brave hearts. No! It shall not be shed in
vain! Forward! Brave people! The goddess of liberty leads you on! And as
the sea breaks through and destroys the barriers that would oppose its
fury, so do ye overwhelm the bulwark of tyranny, and with your impetuous
flood sweep it away from the land which it usurps. (Drums.)

Hark! Hark! How often has this sound summoned my joyous steps to the
field of battle and of victory! How bravely did I tread, with my gallant
comrades, the dangerous path of fame! And now, from this dungeon I shall
go forth, to meet a glorious death; I die for freedom, for whose cause
I have lived and fought, and for whom I now offer myself up at sorrowing
sacrifice.

(The background is occupied by Spanish soldiers with halberts.)

Yes, lead them on! Close your ranks, ye terrify me not. I am accustomed
to stand amid the serried ranks of war, and environed by the threatening
forms of death, to feel, with double zest, the energy of life. (Drums.)

The foe closes round on every side! Swords are flashing; courage,
friends! Behind are your parents, your wives, your children! (Pointing
to the guard.)

And these are impelled by the word of their leader, not by their own
free will. Protect your homes! And to save those who are most dear to
you, be ready to follow my example, and to fall with joy.

(Drums. As he advances through the guards towards the door in the
background, the curtain falls. The music joins in, and the scene closes
with a symphony of victory.)






As a preface to the present work, which, perhaps, more than another
requires one, I adduce the letter of a friend, by which so serious an
undertaking was occasioned.

"We have now, my dear friend, collected the twelve parts of your
poetical works, and on reading them through, find much that is known,
much that is unknown; while much that had been forgotten is revived by
this collection. These twelve volumes, standing before us, in uniform
appearance, we cannot refrain from regarding as a whole; and one would
like to sketch therefrom some image of the author and his talents. But
it cannot be denied, considering the vigour with which he began his
literary career, and the length of time which has since elapsed, that
a dozen small volumes must appear incommensurate. Nor can one forget
that, with respect to the detached pieces, they have mostly been called
forth by special occasions, and reflect particular external objects, as
well as distinct grades of inward culture; while it is equally clear,
that temporary moral and æsthetic maxims and convictions prevail in
them. As a whole, however, these productions remain without connexion;
nay, it is often difficult to believe that they emanate from one and
the same writer.

"Your friends, in the meantime, have not relinquished the inquiry,
and try, as they become more closely acquainted with your mode of
life and thought, to guess many a riddle, to solve many a problem;
indeed, with the assistance of an old liking, and a connexion of many
years? standing, they find a charm even in the difficulties which
present themselves. Yet a little assistance here and there would not
be unacceptable, and you cannot well refuse this to our friendly
entreaties.

"The first thing, then, we require, is that your poetical works,
arranged in the late edition according to some internal relations, may
be presented by you in chronological order, and that the states of
life and feeling which afforded the examples that influenced you, and
the theoretical principles by which you were governed, may be imparted
in some kind of connexion. Bestow this labour for the gratification of
a limited circle, and perhaps it may give rise to something that will
be entertaining and useful to an extensive one. The author, to the
most advanced period of his life, should not relinquish the advantage
of communicating, even at a distance, with those whom affection binds
to him; and if it is not granted to everyone to step forth anew, at a
certain age, with surprising and powerful productions, yet just at that
period of life when knowledge is most perfect, and consciousness most
distinct, it must be a very agreeable and re-animating task to treat
former creations as new matter, and work them up into a kind of Last
Part, which may serve once more for the edification of those who have
been previously edified with and by the artist."

This desire, so kindly expressed, immediately awakened within me an
inclination to comply with it; for, if in the early years of life our
passions lead us to follow our own course, and, in order not to swerve
from it, we impatiently repel the demands of others, so, in bur later
days, it becomes highly advantageous to us, should any sympathy excite
and determine us, cordially, to new activity. I therefore instantly
undertook the preparatory labour of separating the poems of my twelve
volumes, both great and small, and of arranging them according to
years. I strove to recall the times and circumstances under which each
had been produced. But the task soon grew more difficult, as full
explanatory notes and illustrations were necessary to fill up the
chasms between those which had already been given to the world. For, in
the first place, all on which I had originally exercised myself were
wanting, many that had been begun and not finished were also wanting,
and of many that were finished even the external form had completely
disappeared, haring since been entirely reworked and cast into a
different shape. Besides, I had also to call to mind how I had laboured
in the sciences and other arts, and what, in such apparently foreign
departments, both individually and in conjunction with friends, I had
practised in silence, or had laid before the public.

All this I wished to introduce by degrees for the satisfaction of my
well-wishers; but my efforts and reflections always led me further on;
since while I was anxious to comply with that very considerate request,
and laboured to set forth in succession my internal emotions, external
influences, and the steps which, theoretically and practically, I had
trod, I was carried out of my narrow private sphere into the wide
world. The images of a hundred important men, who either directly or
indirectly had influenced me, presented themselves to my view; and
even the prodigious movements of the great political world, which had
operated most extensively upon me, as well as upon the whole mass of
my contemporaries, had to be particularly considered. For this seems
to be the main object of Biography, to exhibit the man in relation to
the features of his time; and to show to what extent they have opposed
or favoured his progress; what view of mankind and the world he has
formed from them, and how far he himself, if an artist, poet, or
author, may externally reflect them. But for this is required what is
scarcely attainable, namely, that the individual should know himself
and his age: himself, so far as he has remained the same under all
circumstances; his age, as that which carries along with it, determines
and fashions, both the willing and the unwilling; so that one may
venture to pronounce, that any person born ten years earlier or later
would have been quite a different being, both as regards his own
culture and his influence on others.

In this manner, from such reflections and endeavours, from such
recollections and considerations,arose the present delineation; and
from this point of view, as to its origin, will it be the best enjoyed
and used, and most impartially estimated. For anything further it may
be needful to say, particularly with respect to the half-poetical,
half-historic mode of treatment, an opportunity will, no doubt,
frequently occur in the course of the narrative.




CONTENTS


PART THE FIRST.

FIRST BOOK.--Childhood--the City of Frankfort

SECOND BOOK.--The New Paris--Frankfort Citizen

THIRD BOOK.--Occupation of Frankfort by the French

FOURTH BOOK.--Studies--The Bible--Frankfort Characters

FIFTH BOOK.--Gretchen--Coronation Ceremonies


PART THE SECOND.

SIXTH BOOK.--Illness and Recovery--Leipzig

SEVENTH BOOK.--Leipzig _(continued)_--German Literature

EIGHTH BOOK.--Art--Dresden--Return from Leipzig

NINTH BOOK.--Strasbourg

TENTH BOOK.--Strasbourg _(continued)_--Herder--Tour in Alsace and
Lorraine--Frederika


PART THE THIRD.

ELEVENTH BOOK.--Frederica _(continued)_--Return from Strasbourg

TWELFTH BOOK.--Merck--Wetzlar; the Imperial Chamber--Charlotte

THIRTEENTH BOOK.--Goetz von Berlichingen and Werther

FOURTEENTH BOOK.--Lenz--Lavater and Basedow--Cologne

FIFTEENTH BOOK.--Moravians--"The Wandering Jew"--Zimmerman--"Clavigo"


PART THE FOURTH.

SIXTEENTH BOOK.--Spinoza--Jung(Stilling)

SEVENTEENTH BOOK.--Lili--Betrothal--Ulrich von Hutten

EIGHTEENTH BOOK.--Hans Sachs--The Stolbergs--Switzerland

NINETEENTH BOOK.--Switzerland--Lavater--"Egmont"

TWENTIETH BOOK.--Kraus--Daemonic Influence--Heidelberg--Departure for
Weimar





TRUTH AND POETRY;

FROM MY OWN LIFE.




PART THE FIRST.


Ὀ μὴ δαρεὶς ἄνθρωπος οὐ παιδεύεται.



FIRST BOOK.


On the 28th of August, 1749, at mid-day, as the clock struck twelve,
I came into the world, at Frankfort-on-the-Maine. My horoscope was
propitious: the sun stood in the sign of the Virgin, and had culminated
for the day; Jupiter and Venus looked on him with a friendly eye,
and Mercury not adversely; while Saturn and Mars kept themselves
indifferent; the Moon alone, just full, exerted the power of her
reflection all the more, as she had then reached her planetary hour.
She opposed herself, therefore, to my birth, which could not be
accomplished until this hour was passed.

These good aspects, which the astrologers managed subsequently
to reckon very auspicious for me, may have been the causes of my
preservation; for, through the unskilfulness of the midwife, I came
into the world as dead, and only alter various efforts was I enabled
to see the light. This event, which had put our household into sore
straits, turned to the advantage of my fellow-citizens, inasmuch as my
grandfather, the _Schultheiss_[1], John Wolfgang Textor, took occasion
from it to have an _accoucheur_ established, and to introduce or revive
the tuition of midwives, which may have done some good to those who
were born after me.

When we desire to recall what befel us in the earliest period of youth,
it often happens that we confound what we have heard from others with
that which we really possess from our own direct experience. Without,
therefore, instituting a very close investigation into the point,
which after all could lead to nothing, I am conscious that we lived
in an old house, which in fact consisted of two adjoining houses, that
had been opened into each other. A spiral stair-case led to rooms on
different levels, and the unevenness of the stories was remedied by
steps. For us children, a younger sister and myself, the favourite
resort was a spacious floor below, near the door of which was a large
wooden lattice that allowed us direct communication with the street
and open air. A bird-cage of this sort, with which many houses were
provided, was called a Frame (_Geräms_). The women sat in it to sew
and knit; the cook picked her salad there; female neighbours chatted
with each other, and the streets consequently in the fine season wore
a southern aspect. One felt at ease while in communication with the
public. We children, too, by means of these frames, were brought into
contact with our neighbours, of whom three brothers Von Ochsenstein,
the surviving sons of the deceased Schultheiss, living on the other
side of the way, won my love, and occupied and diverted themselves with
me in many ways.

Our family liked to tell of all sorts of waggeries to which I was
enticed by these otherwise grave and solitary men. Let one of these
pranks suffice for all. A crockery fair had just been held, from which
not only our kitchen had been supplied for a while with articles for a
long time to come, but a great deal of small gear of the same ware had
been purchased as playthings for us children. One fine afternoon, when
every thing was quiet in the house, I whiled away the time with my pots
and dishes in the Frame, and finding that nothing more was to be got
out of them, hurled one of them into the street. The Von Ochsensteins,
who saw me so delighted at the fine smash it made, that I clapped my
hands for joy, cried out, "Another." I was not long in flinging out a
pot, and as they made no end to their calls for more, by degrees the
whole collection, platters, pipkins, mugs and all, were dashed upon the
pavement. My neighbours continued to express their approbation, and I
was highly delighted to give them pleasure. But my stock was exhausted,
and still they shouted, "More." I ran, therefore, straight to the
kitchen, and brought the earthenware, which produced a still livelier
spectacle in breaking, and thus I kept running backwards and forwards,
fetching one plate after another as I could reach it from where they
stood in rows on the shelf. But as that did not satisfy my audience, I
devoted all the ware that I could drag out to similar destruction. It
was not till afterwards that any one appeared to hinder and save. The
mischief was done, and in place of so much broken crockery, there was
at least a ludicrous story, in which the roguish authors took special
delight to the end of their days.

My father's mother, in whose house we properly dwelt, lived in a large
back-room directly on the ground floor, and we were accustomed to carry
on our sports even up to her chair, and when she was ill, up to her
bedside. I remember her, as it were, a spirit,--a handsome, thin woman,
always neatly dressed in white. Mild, gentle, and kind, she has ever
remained in my memory.

[Side-note: The Stag-Ditch.]

The street in which our house was situated passed by the name of the
Stag-Ditch; but as neither stags nor ditches were to be seen, we wished
to have the expression explained. They told us that our house stood on
a spot that was once outside the city, and that where the street now
ran had formerly been a ditch, in which a number of stags were kept.
These stags were preserved and fed here because the senate every year,
according to an ancient custom, feasted publicly on a stag, which was
therefore always at hand in the ditch for such a festival, in case
princes or knights interfered with the city's right of chase outside,
or the walls were encompassed or besieged by an enemy. This pleased us
much, and we wished that such a lair for tame animals could have been
seen in our times.

The back of the house, from the second story particularly, commanded
a very pleasant prospect over an almost immeasurable extent of
neighbouring gardens, stretching to the very walls of the city. But,
alas! in transforming what were once public grounds into private
gardens, our house and some others lying towards the corner of the
street had been much stinted, since the houses towards the horse-market
had appropriated spacious out-houses and large gardens to themselves,
while a tolerably high wall shut us out from these adjacent paradises.

On the second floor was a room which was called the garden-room,
because they had there endeavoured to supply the want of a garden by
means of a few plants placed before the window. As I grew older,
it was there that I made my favourite, not melancholy but somewhat
sentimental, retreat. Over these gardens, beyond the city's walls and
ramparts, might be seen a beautiful and fertile plain; the same which
stretches towards Höchst. In the summer season I commonly earned my
lessons there, and watched the thunder-storms, but could never look
my fill at the setting sun, which went down directly opposite my
windows. And when, at the same time, I saw the neighbours wandering
through their gardens taking care of their flowers, the children
playing, parties of friends enjoying themselves, and could hear the
bowls rolling and the nine pins dropping, it early excited within me
a feeling of solitude, and a sense of vague longing resulting from
it, which, conspiring with the seriousness and awe implanted in me by
Nature, exerted its influence at an early age, and showed itself more
distinctly in after years.

The old, many cornered, and gloomy arrangement of the house was
moreover adapted to awaken dread and terror in childish minds.
Unfortunately, too, the principle of discipline that young persons
should be early deprived of all fear for the awful and invisible, and
accustomed to the terrible, still prevailed. We children, therefore,
were compelled to sleep alone, and when we found this impossible, and
softly slipped from our beds to seek the society of the servants and
maids, our father, with his dressing-gown turned inside out, which
disguised him sufficiently for the purpose, placed himself in the way,
and frightened us back to our resting-places. The evil effect of this
any one may imagine. How is he who is encompassed with a double terror
to be emancipated from fear? My mother, always cheerful and gay, and
willing to render others so, discovered a much better pedagogical
expedient. She managed to gain her end by rewards. It was the season
for peaches, the plentiful enjoyment of which she promised us every
morning if we overcame our fears during the night. In this way she
succeeded, and both parties were satisfied.

In the interior of the house my eyes were chiefly attracted by a series
of Roman Views, with which my father had ornamented an ante-room.
They were engravings by some of the accomplished predecessors of
Piranesi, who well understood perspective and architecture, and whose
touches were clear and excellent. There I saw every day, the _Piazza
del Popolo_, the _Colosseum_, the Piazza of _St. Peter's_ and St.
Peter's Church, within and without, the castle of _St. Angelo_, and
many other places. These images impressed themselves deeply upon me,
and my otherwise very laconic father was often so kind as to furnish
descriptions of the objects. His partiality for the Italian language,
and for every thing pertaining to Italy, was very decided. A small
collection of marbles and natural curiosities, which he had brought
with him thence, he often showed to us; and he devoted a great part
of his time to a description of his travels, written in Italian, the
copying and correction of which he slowly and accurately completed, in
several parcels, with his own hand. A lively old teacher of Italian,
called Giovinazzi, was of service to him in this work. The old man
moreover did not sing badly, and my mother every day must needs
accompany him and herself upon the clavichord, and thus I speedily
learned the _Solitario bosco ombroso_ so as to know it by heart before
I understood it.

My father was altogether of a didactic turn, and in his retirement
from business liked to communicate to others what he knew or was able
to do. Thus, dining the first years of their marriage, he had kept my
mother busily engaged in writing, playing the clavichord, and singing,
by which means she had been laid under the necessity of acquiring some
knowledge and a slight readiness in the Italian tongue.

[Side-note: The Puppet-Show.]

Generally we passed all our leisure hours with my grandmother, in
whose spacious apartment we found plenty of room for our sports. She
contrived to engage us with various trifles, and to regale us with
all sorts of nice morsels. But one Christmas evening, she crowned all
her kind deeds, by having a puppet-show exhibited before us, and thus
unfolding a new world in the old house. This unexpected drama attracted
our young minds with great force; upon the Boy particularly it made a
very strong impression, which continued to vibrate with a great and
lasting effect.

The little stage with its speechless personages, which at the outset
had only been exhibited to us, but was afterwards given over for
our own use and dramatic vivification, was prized more highly by us
children, as it was the last bequest of our good grandmother, whom
encroaching disease first withdrew from our sight, and death next
tore away from our hearts for ever. Her departure was of still more
importance to our family, as it drew after it a complete change in our
condition.

As long as my grandmother lived, my father had refrained from any
attempt to change or renovate the house, even in the slightest
particular, though it was known that he had pretty large plans of
building, which were now immediately begun. In Frankfort, as in many
other old towns, when anybody put up a wooden structure, he ventured,
for the sake of space, to make not only the first, but each successive
story project over the lower one, by which means narrow streets
especially were rendered somewhat dark and confined. At last a law was
passed, that every one putting up a new house from the ground, should
confine his projections to the first upper story, and carry the others
up perpendicularly. My father, that he might not lose the projecting
space in the second story, caring little for outward architectural
appearance, and anxious only for the good and convenient arrangement
of the interior, resorted to the expedient which others had employed
before him, of propping the upper part of the house, until one part
after another had been removed from the bottom upwards and a new house,
as it were, inserted in its place. Thus, while comparatively none of
the old structure remained, the new one merely passed for a repair.
Now as the tearing down and building up was done gradually, my father
determined hot to quit the house, that he might better direct and give
his orders--as he possessed a good knowledge of the technicalities of
building. At the same time he would not suffer his family to leave
him. This new epoch was very surprising and strange for the children.
To see the rooms in which they had so often been confined and pestered
with wearisome tasks and studies, the passages they had played in, the
walls which had always been kept so carefully clean, all falling before
the mason's hatchet and the carpenter's axe--and that from the bottom
upwards; to float as it were in the air, propped up by beams, being,
at the same time, constantly confined to a certain lesson, or definite
task--all this produced a commotion in our young heads that was not
easily settled. But the young people felt the inconvenience less,
because they had somewhat more space for play than before, and had many
opportunities of swinging on beams, and playing at see-saw with the
boards.

At first my father obstinately persisted in carrying out his plan; but
when at last even the roof was partly removed, and the rain reached
our beds, in spite of the carpets that had been taken up, converted
into tarpaulin, and stretched over as a defence, he determined, though
reluctantly, that the children should be entrusted for a time to some
kind friends, who had already offered their services, and sent to a
public school.

This transition was rather unpleasant; for when the children who had
all along been kept at home in a secluded, pure, refined, yet strict
manner, were thrown among a rude mass of young creatures, they were
compelled unexpectedly to suffer everything from the vulgar, bad,
and even base, since they lacked both weapons and skill to protect
themselves.

[Side-note: The Walk Round Frankfort.]

It was properly about this period that I first became acquainted with
my native city, which I strolled over with more and more freedom, in
every direction, sometimes alone, and sometimes in the company of
lively companions. To convey to others in any degree the impression
made upon me by these grave and revered spots, I must here introduce
a description of my birth-place, as in its different parts it was
gradually unfolded to me. I loved more than anything else to promenade
on the great bridge over the Maine. Its length, its firmness, and its
fine appearance, rendered it a notable structure, and it was, besides,
almost the only memorial left from ancient times of the precautions due
from the civil government to its citizens. The beautiful stream above
and below bridge, attracted my eye, and when the gilt weathercock on
the bridge-cross glittered in the sunshine, I always had a pleasant
feeling. Generally I extended my walk through Sachsenhausen, and for
a _Kreutzer_ was ferried comfortably across the river. I was now
again on this side of the stream, stole along to the wine market,
and admired the mechanism of the cranes when goods were unloaded.
But it was particularly entertaining to watch the arrival of the
market-boats, from which so many and such extraordinary figures were
seen to disembark. On entering the city, the Saalhof, which at least
stood on the spot where the Castle of Emperor Charlemagne and his
successors was reported to have been, was greeted every time with
profound reverence. One liked to lose oneself in the old trading town,
particularly on market-days, among the crowd collected about the
church of St. Bartholomew. From the earliest times, throngs of buyers
and sellers had gathered there, and the place being thus occupied, it
was not easy in later days to bring about a more roomy and cheerful
arrangement. The booths of the so-called _Pfarreisen_ were very
important places for us children, and we carried many a _Batzen_ to
them in order to purchase sheets of coloured paper stamped with gold
animals. But seldom, however, could one make one's way through the
narrow, crowded, and dirty market-place. I call to mind, also, that
I always flew past the adjoining meat-stalls, narrow and disgusting
as they were, in perfect horror. On the other hand, the Roman Hill
_(Römerberg)_ was a most delightful place for walking. The way to the
New-Town, along by the new shops, was always cheering and pleasant; yet
we regretted that a street did not lead into the Zeil by the Church
of Our Lady, and that we always had to go a round-about way by the
_Hasengasse_, or the Catherine Gate. But what chiefly attracted the
child's attention, were the many little towns within the town, the
fortresses within the fortress; viz., the walled monastic enclosures,
and several other precincts, remaining from earlier times, and more
or less like castles--as the Nuremberg Court, the Compostella, the
Braunfels, the ancestral house of the family of Stallburg, and several
strongholds, in later days transformed into dwellings and warehouses.
No architecture of an elevating kind was then to be seen in Frankfort,
and every thing pointed to a period long past and unquiet, both for
town and district. Gates and towers, which defined the bounds of the
old city,--then further on again, gates, towers, walls, bridges,
ramparts, moats, with which the new city was encompassed,--all showed,
but too plainly, that a necessity for guarding the common weal in
disastrous times had induced these arrangements, that all the squares
and streets, even the newest, broadest, and best laid out, owed
their origin to chance and caprice and not to any regulating mind. A
certain liking for the antique was thus implanted in the Boy, and was
specially nourished and promoted by old chronicles and wood-cuts, as
for instance, those of Grave relating to the siege of Frankfort. At
the same time a different taste was developed in him for observing
the conditions of mankind, in their manifold variety and naturalness,
without regard to their importance or beauty. It was, therefore, one
of our favourite walks, which we endeavoured to take now and then in
the course of a year, to follow the circuit of the path inside the city
walls. Gardens, courts, and back buildings extend to the _Zwinger_; and
we saw many thousand people amid their little domestic and secluded
circumstances. From the ornamental and show gardens of the rich, to the
orchards of the citizen, anxious about his necessities--from thence
to the factories, bleaching-grounds, and similar establishments, even
to the burying-grounds--for a little world lay within the limits of
the city--we passed a varied, strange, spectacle, which changed at
every step, and with the enjoyment of which our childish curiosity
was never satisfied. In fact, the celebrated Devil-upon-two-sticks,
when he lifted the roofs of Madrid at night, scarcely did more for
his friend, than was here done for us in the bright sunshine and open
air. The keys that were to be made use of in this journey, to gain us
a passage through many a tower, stair and postern, were in the hands
of the authorities, whose subordinates we never failed to coax into
good-humour.

[Side-note: The Council-House.]

But a more important, and in one sense more fruitful place for us,
was the Council-House, named from the Romans. In its lower vault-like
halls we liked but too well to lose ourselves. We obtained an entrance,
too, into the large and very simple session-room of the Council. The
walls as well as the arched ceiling were white, though wainscotted to a
certain height, and the whole was without a trace of painting, or any
kind of carved work; only, high up on the middle wall, might be read
this brief inscription:

    "One man's word is no man's word,
     Justice needs that both be heard."

After the most ancient fashion, benches were ranged around the
wainscotting, and raised one step above the floor for the accommodation
of the members of the assembly. This readily suggested to us why the
order of rank in our senate was distributed by benches. To the left of
the door, on the opposite corner, sat the _Schöffen_; in the corner
itself the _Schultheiss_, who alone had a small table before him; those
of the second bench sat in the space to his left as far as the wall to
where the windows were; while along the windows ran the third bench,
occupied by the craftsmen. In the midst of the hall stood a table for
the registrar (_Protocolführer_).

Once within the _Römer_, we even mingled with the crowd at the
audiences of the burgomasters. But whatever related to the election
and coronation of the Emperors possessed a greater charm. We managed
to gain the favour of the keepers, so as to be allowed to mount the
new gay imperial staircase, which was painted in fresco, and on other
occasions closed with a grating. The election-chamber, with its purple
hangings and admirably-fringed gold borders, filled us with awe. The
representations of animals on which little children or genii, clothed
in the imperial ornaments and laden with the insignia of the Empire,
made a curious figure, were observed by us with great attention; and we
even hoped that we might live to see, some time or other, a coronation
with our own eyes. They had great difficulty to get us out of the
great imperial hall, when we had been once fortunate enough to steal
in; and we reckoned him our truest friend who, while we looked at the
half-lengths of all the emperors painted around at a certain height,
would tell us something of their deeds.

We listened to many a legend of Charlemagne. But that which was
historically interesting for us began with Rudolph of Hapsburg, who by
his courage put an end to such violent commotions. Charles the Fourth
also attracted our notice We had already heard of the Golden Bull, and
of the statutes for the administration of criminal justice. We knew,
too, that he had not made the Frankforters suffer for their adhesion to
his noble rival, Emperor Günther of Schwarzburg. We heard Maximilian
praised both as a friend to mankind, and to the townsmen, his subjects,
and were also told that it had been prophesied of him he would be
the last Emperor of a German house; which unhappily came to pass, as
after his death the choice wavered only between the King of Spain,
(_afterwards_) Charles V., and the King of France, Francis I. With some
anxiety it was added, that a similar prophecy, or rather intimation,
was once more in circulation; for it was obvious that there was room
left for the portrait of only one more emperor--a circumstance which,
though seemingly accidental; filled the patriotic with concern.

Having once entered upon this circuit, we did not fail to repair to
the cathedral, and there visit the grave of that brave Günther, so
much prized both by friend and foe. The famous stone which formerly
covered it is set up in the choir. The door close by, leading into
the conclave, remained long shut against us, until we at last managed
through the higher authorities, to gain access to this celebrated
place. But we should have done better had we continued as before to
picture it merely in our imagination; for we found this room, which
is so remarkable in German history, where the most powerful princes
were accustomed to meet for an act so momentous, in no respect
worthily adorned, and even disfigured with beams, poles, scaffolding,
and similar lumber, which people had wanted to put out of the way.
The imagination, for that very reason, was the more excited and the
heart elevated, when we soon after received permission to be present
in the Council-House, at the exhibition of the Golden Bull to some
distinguished strangers.

[Side-note: Imperial Coronations.]

The Boy then heard, with much curiosity, what his own family, as well
as other older relations and acquaintances, liked to tell and repeat,
viz., the histories of the two last coronations, which had followed
close upon each other; for there was no Frankforter of a certain age
who would not have regarded these two events, and their attendant
circumstances, as the crowning glory of his whole life. Splendid as
had been the coronation of Charles Seventh, during which particularly
the French Ambassador had given magnificent feasts at great cost and
with distinguished taste, the results were all the more afflicting to
the good Emperor, who could not preserve his capital Munich, and was
compelled in some degree to implore the hospitality of his imperial
towns.

If the coronation of Francis First was not so strikingly splendid as
the former one, it was dignified by the presence of the Empress Maria
Theresa, whose beauty appears to have created as much impression on the
men, as the earnest and noble form and the blue eyes of Charles Seventh
on the women. At any rate, the sexes rivalled each other in giving to
the attentive Boy a highly favourable opinion of both these personages.
All these descriptions and narratives were given in a serene and quiet
state of mind; for the peace of Aix-la-Chapelle had, for the moment,
put an end to all feuds; and they spoke at their ease of past contests,
as well as of their former festivities--the battle of Dettingen, for
instance, and other remarkable events of by-gone years; and all that
was important or dangerous seemed, as generally happens when a peace
has been concluded, to have occurred only to afford entertainment to
prosperous and unconcerned people.

Half a year had scarcely passed away in this narrow patriotism before
the fairs began, which always produced an incredible ferment in the
heads of all children. The erection, in so short a time, of so many
booths, creating a new town within the old one, the roll and crush, the
unloading and unpacking of wares, excited from the very first dawn of
consciousness an insatiable active curiosity and a boundless desire for
childish property, which the Boy with increasing years endeavoured to
gratify, in one way or another, as far as his little purse permitted.
At the same time he obtained a notion of what the world produces, what
it wants, and what the inhabitants of its different parts exchange with
each other.

These great epochs, which came round regularly in spring and autumn,
were announced by curious solemnities, which seemed the more dignified
because they vividly brought before us the old time, and what had
come down from it to ourselves. On Escort-day, the whole population
were on their legs, thronging to the _Fahrgasse_, to the bridge, and
beyond _Sachsenhausen_; all the windows were occupied, though nothing
unusual took place on that day; the crowd seeming to be there only for
the sake of jostling each other, and the spectators merely to look at
one another; for the real occasion of their coming did not begin till
nightfall, and was then rather taken upon trust than seen with the eyes.

The affair was thus: in those old, unquiet times, when every one did
wrong according to his pleasure, or helped the right as his liking
led him, traders on their way to the fairs were so wilfully beset and
harassed by waylayers, both of noble and ignoble birth, that princes
and other persons of power caused their people to be accompanied to
Frankfort by an armed escort. Now the burghers of the imperial city
would yield no rights pertaining to themselves or their district; they
went out to meet the advancing party; and thus contests often arose
as to how far the escort should advance, or whether it had a right to
enter the city at all. But, as this took place, not only in regard
to matters of trade and fairs, but also when high personages came, in
times of peace or war, and especially on the days of election; and
as the affair often came to blows when a train which was not to be
endured in the city strove to make its way in along with its lord, many
negotiations had from time to time been resorted to, and many temporary
arrangements concluded, though always with reservations of rights on
both sides. The hope had not been relinquished of composing once for
all a quarrel that had already lasted for centuries, inasmuch as the
whole institution, on account of which it had been so long and often so
hotly contested, might be looked upon as nearly useless, or at least as
superfluous.

Meanwhile, on those days, the city cavalry in several divisions, each
having a commander in front, rode forth from different gates and found
on a certain spot some troopers or hussars of the persons entitled to
an escort, who with their leaders were well received and entertained.
They stayed till towards evening, and then rode back to the city,
scarcely visible to the expectant crowd, many a city knight not being
in a condition to manage his horse, or keep himself in the saddle.
The most important bands returned by the bridge-gate, where the
pressure was consequently the strongest. Last of all, just as night
fell, the Nuremberg post-coach arrived, escorted in the same way, and
always containing, as the people fancied, in pursuance of custom, an
old woman. Its arrival, therefore, was a signal for all the urchins to
break out into an ear-splitting shout, though it was utterly impossible
to distinguish any one of the passengers within. The throng that
pressed after the coach through the bridge-gate was quite incredible,
and perfectly bewildering to the senses. The houses nearest the bridge
were those, therefore, most in demand among spectators.

[Side-note: The Piper's Court.]

Another more singular ceremony, by which the people were excited
in broad daylight, was the Piper's-court (_Pfeifer-gericht_). It
commemorated those early times when important larger trading-towns
endeavoured, if not to abolish tolls altogether, at least to bring
about a reduction of them, as they increased in proportion with trade
and industry. They were allowed this privilege by the Emperor who
needed their aid, when it was in his power to grant it, but commonly
only for one year; so that it had to be annually renewed. This was
effected by means of symbolical gifts, which were presented before
the opening of St. Bartholomew's Fair to the imperial magistrate
(_Schultheiss_), who might have sometimes been the chief toll-gatherer;
and, for the sake of a more imposing show, the gifts were offered
when he was sitting in full court with the _Schöffen._ But when the
chief magistrate afterwards came to be no longer appointed by the
Emperor, and was elected by the city itself, he still retained these
privileges; and thus both the immunities of the cities from toll, and
the ceremonies by which the representatives from Worms, Nuremberg,
and Old Bamberg once acknowledged the ancient favour, had come down
to our times. The day before Lady-day, an open court was proclaimed.
In an enclosed space in the great Imperial Hail, the Schöffen took
their elevated seats; a step higher, sat the _Schultheiss_ in the
midst of them; while below on the right hand, were the procurators of
both parties invested with plenipotentiary powers. The _Actuarius_
begins to read aloud the weighty judgments reserved for this day; the
lawyers demand copies, appeal, or do whatever else seems necessary.
All at once a singular sort of music announces, if we may so speak,
the advent of former centuries. It proceeds from three pipers, one
of whom plays an old _shawm_, another a _sack-but_, and the third a
_pommer_, or oboe. They wear blue mantles trimmed with gold, having
the notes made fast to their sleeves, and their heads covered. Having
thus left their inn at ten o'clock, followed by the deputies and their
attendants, and stared at by all, natives and strangers, they enter the
hall. The law proceedings are stayed--the pipers and their train halt
before the railing--the deputy steps in and stations himself in front
of the _Schultheiss._ The emblematic presents, which were required to
be precisely the same as in the old precedents consisted commonly of
the staple wares of the city offering them. Pepper passed, as it were,
for everything else; and, even on this occasion, the deputy brought a
handsomely turned wooden goblet filled with pepper. Upon it lay a pair
of gloves, curiously slashed, stitched, and tasseled with silk--a token
of a favour granted and received--such as the Emperor himself made use
of in certain cases. Along with this was a white staff, which in former
times was not easily dispensable in judicial proceedings. Some small
pieces of silver money were added; and the city of Worms brought an
old felt hat, which was always redeemed again, so that the same one had
been a witness of these ceremonies for many years.

After the deputy had made his address, handed over his present, and
received from the _Schultheiss_ assurance of continued favour, he
quitted the enclosed circle, the pipers blew, the train departed as it
had come, the court pursued its business, until the second and at last
the third deputy had been introduced. For each came some time after the
other; partly that the pleasure of the public might thus be prolonged,
and partly because they were always the same antiquated _virtuosi_ whom
Nuremberg, for itself and its co-cities, had undertaken to maintain and
produce annually at the appointed place.

[Side-note: Summer Amusements.]

We children were particularly interested in this festival, because we
were not a little flattered to see our grandfather in a place of so
much honour; and because commonly, on the self-same day, we used to
visit him, quite modestly, in order that we might, when my grandmother
had emptied the pepper into her spice box, lay hold of a cup or small
rod, a pair of gloves or an old _Räder Albus._[2] These symbolical
ceremonies, restoring antiquity as if by magic, could not be explained
to us without leading us back into past times and informing us of the
manners, customs, and feelings of those early ancestors who were so
strangely made present to us, by pipers and deputies seemingly risen
from the dead, and by tangible gifts, which might be possessed by
ourselves.

These venerable solemnities were followed, in the fine season, by many
festivals, delightful for us children, which took place in the open
air, outside of the city. On the right shore of the Maine going down,
about half an hour's walk from the gate, there rises a sulphur-spring,
neatly enclosed and surrounded by aged lindens. Not far from it
stands the _Good-People's-Court_, formerly a hospital erected for the
sake of the waters. On the commons around, the herds of cattle from
the neighbourhood were collected on a certain day of the year; and
the herdsmen, together with their sweethearts, celebrated a rural
festival, with dancing and singing, with all sorts of pleasure and
clownishness. On the other side of the city lay a similar but larger
common, likewise graced with a spring and still finer lindens. Thither,
at Whitsuntide, the flocks of sheep were driven; and, at the same
time, the poor, pale orphan children were allowed to come out of their
walls into the open air; for the thought had not yet occurred that
these destitute creatures, who must some time or other help themselves
through the world, ought soon to be brought in contact with it; that
instead of being kept in dreary confinement, they should rather be
accustomed to serve and to endure; and that there was every reason to
strengthen them physically and morally from their infancy. The nurses
and maids, always ready to hike a walk, never failed to carry or
conduct us to such places, even in our first years; so that these rural
festivals belong to the earliest impressions that I can recall.

Meanwhile, our house had been finished, and that too in tolerably short
time, because everything had been judiciously planned and prepared,
and the needful money provided. We now found ourselves all together
again, and felt comfortable: for, when a well-considered plan is once
carried out, we forget he various inconveniences of the means that were
necessary to its accomplishment. The building, for a private residence,
was roomy enough; light and cheerful throughout, with broad staircases,
agreeable parlours, and a prospect of the gardens that could be enjoyed
easily from several of the windows. The internal completion, and what
pertained to mere ornament and finish, was gradually accomplished, and
served at the same time for occupation and amusement.

The first thing brought into order was my father's collection of
books, the best of which, in calf and half-calf binding, were to
ornament the walls of his office and study. He possessed the beautiful
Dutch editions of the Latin classics, which for the sake of outward
uniformity he had endeavoured to procure all in quarto; and also
many other works relating to Roman antiquities, and the more elegant
jurisprudence. The most eminent Italian poets were not wanting, and for
Tasso he showed a great predilection. There were also the best and most
recent Travels; and he took great delight in correcting and completing
Keyssler and Nemeiz from them. Nor had he omitted to surround himself
with all needful assistants to learning, such as dictionaries of
various languages, and encyclopedias of science and art, which with
much else adapted to profit and amusement, might be consulted at will.

The other half of this collection, in neat parchment bindings, with
very beautifully written titles, was placed in a separate attic. The
acquisition of new books, as well as their binding and arrangement,
he pursued with great composure and love of order: and he was much
influenced in his opinion by the critical notices that ascribed
particular merit to any work. His collection of juridical treatises was
annually increased by some volumes.

Next, the pictures, which in the old house had hung about
promiscuously, were now collected and symmetrically hung on the walls
of a cheerful room near the study, all in black frames, set off with
gilt mouldings. My father had a principle, which he often and strongly
expressed, that one ought to employ the living Masters, and to spend
less upon the departed, in the estimation of whom prejudice greatly
concurred. He had the notion that it was precisely the same with
pictures as with Rhenish wines, which, though age may impart to them a
higher value, can be produced in any coming year of just as excellent
quality as in years past. After the lapse of some time, the new wine
also becomes old, quite as valuable and perhaps more delicious. This
opinion he chiefly confirmed by the observation that many old pictures
seemed to derive their chief value for lovers of art from the fact
that they had become darker and browner; and that the harmony of tone
in such pictures was often vaunted. My father, on the other hand,
protested that he had no fear that the new pictures would not also turn
black in time, though whether they were likely to gain anything by this
he was not so positive.

[Side-note: Frankfurt Artists.]

In pursuance of these principles, he employed for many years the
whole of the Frankfort artists:--the painter HIRT, who excelled in
animating oak and beech woods, and other so-called rural scenes, with
cattle; TRAUTMANN, who had adopted Rembrandt as his model, and had
attained great perfection in inclosed lights and reflections, as well
as in effective conflagrations, so that he was once ordered to paint
a companion-piece to a Rembrandt; SCHÜTZ, who diligently elaborated
landscapes of the Rhine country, in the manner of SACHTLEBENS; and
JUNKER, who executed with great purity flower and fruit pieces, still
life, and figures quietly employed, after the models of the Dutch.
But now, by the new arrangement, by more convenient room, and still
more by the acquaintance of a skilful artist, our love of art was again
quickened and animated. This artist was SEEKATZ, a pupil of Brinkmann,
court-painter at Darmstadt, whose talent and character will be more
minutely unfolded in the sequel.

In this way, the remaining rooms were finished, according to their
several purposes. Cleanliness and order prevailed throughout. Above
all, the large panes of plate-glass contributed towards a perfect
lightness, which had been wanting in the old house for many causes, but
chiefly on account of the panes, which were for the most part round. My
father was cheerful on account of the success of his undertaking, and
if his good humour had not been often interrupted because the diligence
and exactness of the mechanics did not come up to his wishes, a happier
life than ours could not have been conceived, since much good partly
arose in the family itself, and partly flowed from without.

But an extraordinary event deeply disturbed the Boy's peace of mind,
for the first time. On the 1st of November, 1755, the earthquake at
Lisbon took place, and spread a prodigious alarm over the world, long
accustomed to peace and quiet. A great and magnificent capital, which
was, at the same time, a trading and mercantile city, is smitten,
without warning, by a most fearful calamity. The earth trembles and
totters, the sea roars up, ships dash together, houses fall in, and
over them churches and towers, the royal palace is in part swallowed
by the waters, the bursting land seems to vomit flames, since smoke
and fire are seen everywhere amid the ruins. Sixty thousand persons,
a moment before in case and comfort, fall together, and he is to be
deemed most fortunate who is no longer capable of a thought or feeling
about the disaster. The flames rage on, and with them rage a troop
of desperadoes, before concealed, or set at large by the event. The
wretched survivors are exposed to pillage, massacre, and every outrage:
and thus, on all sides, Nature asserts her boundless capriciousness.

[Side-note: Earthquake at Lisbon.]

Intimations of this event had spread over wide regions more quickly
than the authentic reports: slight shocks had been felt in many places:
in many springs, particularly those of a mineral nature, an unusual
receding of the waters had been remarked; and so much, the greater was
the effect of the accounts themselves, which were rapidly circulated,
at first in general terms, but finally with dreadful particulars.
Hereupon, the religious were neither wanting in reflections, nor the
philosophic in grounds for consolation, nor the clergy in warnings. So
complicated an event arrested the attention of the world for a long
time; and, as additional and more detailed accounts of the extensive
effects of this explosion came from every quarter, the minds already
aroused by the misfortunes of strangers, began to be more and more
anxious about themselves and their friends. Perhaps the demon of terror
had never so speedily and powerfully diffused his terrors over the
earth.

The Boy, who was compelled to put up with frequent repetitions of
the whole matter, was not a little staggered. God, the Creator and
Preserver of Heaven and Earth, whom the explanation of the first
article of the Creed declared so wise and benignant, having given
both the just and the unjust a prey to the same destruction, had not
manifested Himself, by any means, in a fatherly character. In vain
the young mind strove to resist these impressions. It was the more
impossible, as the wise and scripture-learned could not themselves
agree as to the light in which such a phenomenon should be regarded.

The next summer gave a closer opportunity of knowing directly that
angry God, of whom the Old Testament records so much. A sudden
hail-storm, accompanied by thunder and lightning, violently broke the
new panes at the back of our house, which looked towards the west,
damaged the new furniture, destroyed some valuable books and other
things of worth, and was the more terrible to the children, as the
whole household, quite beside themselves, dragged them into a dark
passage, where, on their knees, with frightful groans and cries, they
thought to conciliate the wrathful Deity. Meanwhile, my father, who
was alone self-possessed, forced open and unhinged the window-frames,
by which we saved much glass, but made a broader inlet for the rain
that followed the hail, so that after we were finally quieted, we found
ourselves in the rooms and on the stairs completely surrounded by
floods and streams of water.

These events, startling as they were on the whole, did not greatly
interrupt the course of instruction which my father himself had
undertaken to give us children. He had passed his youth in the Cobourg
Gymnasium, which stood as one of the first among German educational
institutions. He had there laid a good foundation in languages, and
other matters reckoned part of a learned education, had subsequently
applied himself to jurisprudence at Leipzig, and had at last taken
his degree at Giessen. His dissertation, "_Electa de aditione
Hereditatis_," which had been earnestly and carefully written, is yet
cited by jurists with approval.

It is a pious wish of all fathers to see what they have themselves
failed to attain, realized in their sons, as if in this way they
could live their lives over again, and, at last, make a proper use
of their early experience. Conscious of his acquirements, with the
certainty of faithful perseverance, and distrusting the teachers of
the day, my father undertook to instruct his own children, allowing
them to take particular lesson from particular masters only so far as
seemed absolutely necessary. A pedagogical _dilettantism_ was already
beginning to show itself everywhere. The pedantry and heaviness of the
masters appointed in the public schools had probably given rise to
this evil. Something better was sought for, but it was forgotten how
defective all instruction must be, which is not given by persons who
are teachers by profession.

My father had prospered in his own career tolerably according to his
wishes: I was to follow the same course, only more easily, and much
farther. He prized my natural endowments the more, because he was
himself wanting in them; for he had acquired everything only by means
of unspeakable diligence, pertinacity, and repetition. He often assured
me, early and late, both in jest and earnest, that with my talents he
would have deported himself very differently, and would not have turned
them to such small account.

[Side-note: Juvenile Studies.]

By means of a ready apprehension, practice, and a good, memory, I very
soon outgrew the instructions which my father and the other teachers
were able to give, without being thoroughly grounded in anything.
Grammar displeased me, because I regarded it as a mere arbitrary law;
the rules seemed ridiculous, inasmuch as they were invalidated by so
many exceptions, which had all to be learned by themselves. And if the
first Latin work had not been in rhyme, I should have got on but badly
in that; but as it was, I hummed and sang it to myself readily enough.
In the same way we had a Geography in memory-verses, in which the most
wretched doggerel best served to fix the recollection of that which was
to be retained: _e. g.:_

    Upper-Yssel has many a fen,
    Which makes it hateful to all men.

The forms and inflections of language I caught with ease; and I also
quickly unravelled what lay in the conception of a thing. In rhetoric,
composition, and such matters, no one excelled me, although I was often
put back for faults of grammar. Yet these were the attempts that gave
my father particular pleasure, and for which he rewarded me with many
presents of money, considerable for such a lad.

My father taught my sister Italian in the same room in which I had to
commit Cellarius to memory. As I was soon ready with my task, and was
yet obliged to sit quiet, I listened with my book before me, and very
readily caught the Italian, which struck me as an agreeable softening
of Latin.

Other precocities, with respect to memory and the power to combine,
I possessed in common with those children who thus acquire an early
reputation. For that reason my father could scarcely wait for me to
go to college. He very soon declared, that I must study jurisprudence
in Leipzig, for which he retained a strong predilection, and I was
afterwards to visit some other university and take my degree. As for
this second one he was indifferent which I might choose, except that
he had for some reason or other a disinclination to Göttingen, to my
disappointment, since it was precisely there that I had placed such
confidence and high hopes.

He told me further, that I was to go to Wetzlar and Ratisbon as well as
to Vienna, and thence towards Italy, although he repeatedly mentioned
that Paris should first be seen, because after coming out of Italy
nothing else could be pleasing.

These tales of my future youthful travels, often as they were repeated,
I listened to eagerly, the more since they always led to accounts of
Italy, and at last to a description of Naples. His otherwise serious
and dry manner seemed on these occasions to relax and quicken, and thus
a passionate wish awoke in us children to participate in the paradise
he described.

Private lessons, which now gradually multiplied, were shared with the
children of the neighbours. This learning in common did not advance
me; the teachers followed their routine; and the rudeness, sometimes
the ill-nature, of my companions, interrupted the brief hours of study
with tumult, vexation, and disturbance. Chrestomathies, by which
learn learning is made pleasant and varied, had not yet reached us.
Cornelius Nepos, so dry to young people, the New Testament which was
much too easy, and which by preaching and religious instructions had
been rendered even common-place, Cellarius and Pasor could impart no
kind of interest; on the other hand, a certain rage for rhyme and
versification, a consequence of reading the prevalent German poets,
took complete possession of us. Me it had seized much earlier, as I
had found it agreeable to pass from the rhetorical to the poetical
treatment of subjects.

We boys held a Sunday assembly where each of us was to produce original
verses. And here I was struck by something strange, which long caused
me uneasiness. My poems, whatever they might be, always seemed to me
the best. But I soon remarked, that my competitors who brought forth
very lame affairs, were in the same condition, and thought no less of
themselves. Nay, what appeared yet more suspicious, a good lad (though
in such matters altogether unskilful), whom I liked in other respects,
but who had his rhymes made by his tutor, not only regarded these as
the best, but was thoroughly persuaded they were his own, as he always
maintained in our confidential intercourse. Now, as this illusion and
error was obvious to me, the question one day forced itself upon me,
whether I myself might not be in the same state, whether those poems
were not really better than mine, and whether I might not justly appear
to those boys as mad as they to me? This disturbed me much and long;
for it was altogether impossible for me to find any external criterion
of the truth; I even ceased from producing, until at length I was
quieted by my own light temperament, and the feeling of my own powers,
and lastly by a trial of skill--started on the spur of the moment by
our teachers and parents, who had noted our sport--in which I came off
well and won general praise.

No libraries for children had at that time been established. The old
had themselves still childish notions, and found it convenient to
impart their own education to their successors. Except the _Orbis
Pictus_ of Amos Comenius, no book of the sort fell into our hands; but
the large folio Bible, with copperplates by Merian, was diligently gone
over leaf by leaf: Gottfried's Chronicles, with plates by the same
master, taught us the most notable events of Universal History; the
_Acerra Philologica_ added thereto all sorts of fables, mythologies and
wonders; and, as I soon became familiar with Ovid's Metamorphoses, the
first books of which in particular I studied carefully, my young brain
was rapidly furnished with a mass of images and events, of significant
and wonderful shapes and occurrences, and I never felt time hang upon
my hands, as I always occupied myself in working over, repeating, and
reproducing these acquisitions.

[Side-note: Popular Works.]

A more salutary moral effect than that of these rude and hazardous
antiquities, was produced by Fénelon's _Telemachus_, with which I first
became acquainted in Neukirch's translation, and which, imperfectly
as it was executed, had a sweet and beneficent influence on my mind.
That _Robinson Crusoe_ was added in due time, follows in the nature
of things; and it may be imagined that the _Island of Falsenberg_
was not wanting. Lord Anson's _Voyage round the Globe_ combined the
dignity of truth with the rich fancies of fable, and while our thoughts
accompanied this excellent seaman, we were conducted over all the
world, and endeavoured to follow him with our fingers on the globe. But
a still richer harvest was to spring up before me, when I lighted on a
mass of writings, which, in their present state, it is true, cannot be
called excellent, but the contents of which, in a harmless way, bring
near to us many a meritorious action of former times.

The publication, or rather the manufacture, of those books which have
at a later day become so well known and celebrated under the name
_Volkschriften, Volksbücher_ (popular works or books), was carried on
in Frankfort. The enormous sales they met with, led to their being
almost illegibly printed from stereotypes on horrible blotting-paper.
We children were so fortunate as to find these precious remains of the
Middle Ages every day on a little table at the door of a dealer in
cheap books, and to obtain them at the cost of a couple of _kreutzer._
The Eulenspiegel, the Four Sons of Haimon, the Emperor Octavian, the
Fair Melusina, the Beautiful Magelone, Fortunatus, with the whole race
down to the Wandering Jew, were all at our service, as often as we
preferred the relish of these works to the taste of sweet things. The
greatest benefit of this was, that when we had read through or damaged
such a sheet, it could soon be reprocured and swallowed a second time.

As a family pic-nic in summer is vexatiously disturbed by a sudden
storm, which transforms a pleasant state of things into the very
reverse, so the diseases of childhood fall unexpectedly on the most
beautiful season of early life. And thus it happened with me. I had
just purchased Fortunatus with his Purse and Wishing-hat, when I was
attacked by a restlessness and fever which announced the small-pox.
Inoculation was still with us considered very problematical, and
although it had already been intelligibly and urgently recommended
by popular writers, the German physicians hesitated to perform an
operation that seemed to forestall Nature. Speculative Englishmen,
therefore, had come to the Continent and inoculated, for a considerable
fee, the children of such persons as were opulent and free from
prejudices. Still the majority were exposed to the old disease; the
infection raged through families, killed and disfigured many children;
and few parents dared to avail themselves of a method, the probable
efficacy of which had been abundantly confirmed by the result. The
evil now invaded our house and attacked me with unusual severity.
My whole body was sown over with spots, and my race covered, and
for several days I lay blind and in great pain. They tried the only
possible alleviation, and promised me heaps of gold if I would keep
quiet and not increase the mischief by rubbing and scratching. I
controlled myself, while, according to the prevailing prejudice, they
kept me as warm as possible, and thus only rendered my suffering more
acute. At last, after a woful time, there fell as it were a mask from
my face. The blotches had left no visible mark upon the skin, but the
features were plainly altered. I myself was satisfied merely with
seeing the light of day again, and gradually putting off my spotted
skin; but others were pitiless enough to remind me often of my previous
condition; especially a very lively aunt, who had formerly regarded
me with idolatry, but in after years could seldom look at me without
exclaiming--"The deuce, cousin! what a fright he's grown!" Then she
would tell me circumstantially how I had once been her delight, and
what attention she had excited when she carried me about; and thus I
early learned that people very often subject us to a severe atonement
for the pleasure which we have afforded them.

[Side-note: Diseases of Childhood.]

I neither escaped measles, nor chicken-pox, nor any other of the
tormenting demons of childhood; and I was assured each time that it
was a great piece of good luck that this malady was now past for ever.
But, alas! another again threatened in the back-ground, and advanced.
All these things increased my propensity to reflection; and as I
had already practised myself in fortitude, in order to remove the
torture of impatience, the virtues which I had heard praised in the
Stoics appeared to me highly worthy of imitation, and the more so, as
something similar was commended by the Christian doctrine of patience.

While on the subject of these family diseases, I will mention a brother
about three years younger than myself, who was likewise attacked by
that infection, and suffered not a little from it. He was of a tender
nature, quiet and capricious, and we were never on the most friendly
terms. Besides, he scarcely survived the years of childhood. Among
several other children born afterwards, who like him did not live long,
I only remember a very pretty and agreeable girl, who also soon passed
away; so that, after the lapse of some years, my sister and I remained
alone, and were therefore the more deeply and affectionately attached
to each other.

These maladies and other unpleasant interruptions were in their
consequences doubly grievous; for my father, who seemed to have laid
down for himself a certain calendar of education and instruction, was
resolved immediately to repair every delay, and imposed double lessons
upon the young convalescent. These were not hard for me to accomplish,
but were so far troublesome, that they hindered, and to a certain
extent repressed, my inward development, which had taken a decided
direction.

From these didactic and pedagogic oppressions, we commonly fled to
my grandfather and grandmother. Their house stood in the _Friedberg_
street, and appeared to have been formerly a fortress; for, on
approaching it, nothing was seen but a large gate with battlements,
which were joined on either side to the two neighbouring houses. On
entering through a narrow passage, we reached at last a tolerably broad
court, surrounded by irregular buildings, which were now all united
into one dwelling. We usually hastened at once into the garden, which
extended to a considerable length and breadth behind the buildings, and
was very well kept. The walks were mostly skirted by vine trellises;
one part of the space was used for vegetables, and another devoted to
flowers, which from spring till autumn adorned in rich succession the
borders as well as the beds. The long wall erected towards the south
was used for some well-trained espalier peach-trees, the forbidden
fruit of which ripened temptingly before us through the summer. Yet we
rather avoided this side, because we here could not satisfy our dainty
appetites; and we turned to the side opposite, where an interminable
row of currant and gooseberry bushes furnished our voracity with a
succession of harvests till autumn. Not less important to us was an
old, high, wide-spreading mulberry-tree, both on account of its fruits,
and because we were told that the silk-worms fed upon its leaves. In
this peaceful region my grandfather was found every evening, tending
with genial care and with his own hand the finer growths of fruits and
flowers; while a gardener managed the drudgery. He was never vexed by
the various toils which were necessary to preserve and increase a fine
show of pinks. The branches of the peach-trees were carefully tied to
the espaliers with his own hands, in a fan-shape, in order to bring
about a full and easy growth of the fruit. The sorting of the bulbs of
tulips, hyacinths, and plants of a similar nature, as well as the care
of their preservation, he entrusted to none; and I still with pleasure
recall to my mind how diligently he occupied himself in inoculating
the different varieties of roses. That he might protect himself from
the thorns, he put on a pair of those ancient leather gloves, of which
three pair were given him annually at the Piper's Court, so that there
was no dearth of the article. He wore also a loose dressing-gown, and a
folded black velvet cap upon his head, so that he might have passed for
an intermediate person between Alcinoüs and Laërtes.

[Side-note: Goethe's Maternal Grandfather.]

All this work in the garden he pursued as regularly and with as much
precision as his official business; for, before he came down, he always
arranged the list of causes for the next day, and read the legal
papers. In the morning he proceeded to the Council House, dined after
his return, then nodded in his easy chair, and so went through the same
routine every day. He conversed little, never exhibited any vehemence
and I do not remember ever to have seen him angry. All that surrounded
him was in the fashion of the olden time. I never perceived any
alteration in his wainscotted room. His library contained, besides law
works, only the earliest books of travels, sea voyages, and discoveries
of countries. Altogether I can call to mind no situation more adapted
than his to awaken the feeling of uninterrupted peace and eternal
duration.

But the reverence which we entertained for this venerable old man was
raised to the highest degree by a conviction that he possessed the
gift of prophecy, especially in matters that pertained to himself and
his destiny. It is true he revealed himself to no one, distinctly and
minutely, except to my grandmother; yet we were all aware that he was
informed of what was going to happen, by significant dreams. He assured
his wife, for instance, at a time when he was still junior Councillor,
that on the first vacancy he would obtain the place left open on
the bench of the _Schöffen_; and soon afterwards when one of those
officers actually died of apoplexy, my grandfather gave orders that
his house should be quietly got ready prepared on the day of electing
and balloting, to receive his guests and congratulators. Sure enough,
the decisive gold ball was drawn in his favour. The simple dream by
which he had learned this, he confided to his wife as follows: He had
seen himself in the ordinary full assembly of Councilmen, where all
went on just as usual. Suddenly, the late _Schöff_ rose from his seat,
descended the steps, pressed him in the most complimentary manner to
take the vacant place, and then departed by the door.

Something like this occurred on the death of the _Schultheiss._ They
make no delay in supplying this place, as they always have to fear that
the Emperor will at some time resume his ancient right of nominating
the officer. On this occasion, the messenger of the Court came at
midnight to summon an extraordinary session for the next morning;
and as the light in his lantern was about to expire, he asked for a
candle's end to help him on his way. "Give him a whole one," said my
grandfather to the ladies, "he takes the trouble all on my account."
This expression anticipated the result--he was made _Schultheiss_;
and what rendered the circumstance particularly remarkable was, that
although his representative was the third and last to draw at the
ballot, the two silver balls first came out, leaving the golden ball at
the bottom of the bag for him.

Perfectly prosaic, simple, and without a trace of the fantastic
or miraculous, were the other dreams, of which we were informed.
Moreover, I remember that once, as a boy, I was turning over his
books and memoranda, and found among some other remarks which related
to gardening, such sentences as these: "To-night N. N. came to me
and said----" the name and revelation being written in cipher; or
"This night I saw----" all the rest being again in cipher, except the
conjunctions and similar words, from which nothing could be learned.

It is worthy of note also, that persons who showed no signs of
prophetic insight at other times, acquired, for the moment, while
in his presence, and that by means of some sensible evidence,
presentiments of diseases or deaths which were then occurring in
distant places. But no such gift has been transmitted to any of his
children or grandchildren, who for the most part have been hearty
people, enjoying life, and never going beyond the Actual.

While on this subject, I remember with gratitude many kindnesses I
received from them in my youth. Thus, for example, we were employed and
entertained in many ways when we visited the second daughter, married
to the druggist Melbert, whose house and shop stood near the market, in
the midst of the liveliest and most crowded part of the town. There we
could look down from the windows pleasantly enough upon the hurly-burly
in which we feared to lose ourselves; and though, at first, of all the
goods in the shop, nothing had much interest for us but the liquorice,
and the little brown stamped cakes made from it, we became in time
better acquainted with the multitude of articles bought and sold in
that business. This aunt was the most vivacious of all the family. When
my mother, in her early years, took pleasure in being neatly dressed,
working at some domestic occupation, or reading a book, the other,
on the contrary, ran about the neighbourhood to pick up neglected
children, take care of them, comb them, and carry them round, as
indeed she did me for a good while. At a time of public festivities,
such as coronations, it was impossible to keep her at home. When a
little child, she had already scrambled for the money scattered on such
occasions; and it was related of her, that once when she had got a good
many together, and was looking at them with great delight in the palm
of her hand, it was struck by somebody, and all her well-earned booty
vanished at a blow. There was another incident of which she was very
proud. Once, while standing on a post as the Emperor Charles VII. was
passing, at a moment when all the people were silent, she shouted a
vigorous "Vivat!" into the coach, which made him take off his hat to
her, and thank her quite graciously for her bold salutation.

Everything in her house was stirring, lively, and cheerful, and we
children owed her many a gay hour.

[Side-note: Religious Instruction.]

In a quieter situation, which was however suited to her character,
was a second aunt, married to the Pastor Stark, incumbent of St.
Catharine's Church. He lived much alone, in accordance with his
temperament and vocation, and possessed a fine library. Here I first
became acquainted with Homer, in a prose translation, which may be
found in the seventh part of Herr Von Loen's new collection of the
most remarkable travels, under the title, _Homer's Description of the
Conquest of the Kingdom of Troy_, ornamented with copper-plates, in the
theatrical French taste. These pictures perverted my imagination to
such a degree, that for a long time I could conceive the Homeric heroes
only under such forms. The incidents themselves gave me unspeakable
delight; though I found great fault with the work for affording us no
account of the capture of Troy, and breaking off so abruptly Math the
death of Hector. My uncle, to whom I mentioned this defect, referred me
to Virgil, who perfectly satisfied my demands.

It will be taken for granted, that we children had among our other
lessons, a continued and progressive instruction in religion. But the
Church-Protestantism imparted to us was, properly speaking, nothing
but a kind of dry morality: ingenious exposition was not thought
of; and the doctrine appealed neither to the understanding nor to
the heart. For that reason, there were various secessions from the
Established Church. Separatists, Pietists, Herrnhuter (Moravians),
Quiet-in-the-Lands, and others differently named and characterized
sprang up, all of whom were animated by the same purpose of approaching
the Deity, especially through Christ, more closely than seemed to them
possible under the forms of the established religion.

The Boy heard these opinions and sentiments constantly spoken of;
for the clergy as well as the laity divided themselves into _pro_
and _con._ The minority were composed of those who dissented more or
less broadly, but their modes of thinking attracted by originality,
heartiness, perseverance, and independence. All sorts of stories were
told of their virtues and of the way in which they were manifested.
The reply of a pious master-tinman was especially noted, who, when
one of his craft attempted to shame him by asking "who is really
your confessor?" answered with great cheerfulness and confidence in
the goodness of his cause,--"I have a famous one--no less than the
confessor of King David."

Things of this sort naturally made an impression on the Boy, and led
him into similar states of mind. In fact, he came to the thought that
he might immediately approach the great God of Nature, the Creator and
Preserver of Heaven and Earth, whose earlier manifestations of wrath
had been long forgotten in the beauty of the world, and the manifold
blessings in which we participate while upon it. The way he took to
accomplish this was very curious.

The Boy had chiefly kept to the first article of Belief. The God who
stands in immediate connexion with nature, and owns and loves it as his
work, seemed to him the proper God, who might be brought into closer
relationship with man, as with everything else, and who would take
care of him, as of the motion of the stars, the days and seasons, the
animals and plants. There were texts of the Gospels which explicitly
stated this. The Boy could ascribe no form to this Being; he therefore
sought Him in His works, and would, in the good Old Testament fashion,
build Him an altar. Natural productions were set forth as images of
the world, over which a flame was to bum, signifying the aspirations
of man's heart towards his Maker. He brought out of the collection of
natural objects which he possessed, and which had been increased as
chance directed, the best ores and other specimens.

[Side-note: The Boy-Priest.]

But the next difficulty was, as to how they should be arranged and
raised into a pile. His father possessed a beautiful red-lackered
music-stand, ornamented with gilt flowers, in the form of a four-sided
pyramid, with different elevations, which had been found convenient
for quartets, but lately was not much in use. The Boy laid hands on
this, and built up his representatives of Nature one above the other
in steps, so that it all looked quite pretty and at the same time
sufficiently significant. On an early sunrise his first worship of God
was to be celebrated, but the young priest had not yet settled how
to produce a flame which should at the same time emit an agreeable
odour. At last it occurred to him to combine the two, as he possessed
a few fumigating pastils, which diffused a pleasant fragrance with a
glimmer, if not with a flame. Nay, this soft burning and exhalation
seemed a better representation of what passes in the heart, than
an open flame. The sun had already risen for a long time, but the
neigbouring houses concealed the East. At last it glittered above
the roofs, a burning-glass was at once taken up and applied to the
pastils, which were fixed on the summit in a fine porcelain saucer.
Everything succeeded according to the wish, and the devotion was
perfect. The altar remained as a peculiar ornament of the room which
had been assigned him in the new house. Every one regarded it only
as a well-arranged collection of natural curiosities. The Boy knew
better, but concealed his knowledge. He longed for a repetition of the
solemnity. But unfortunately, just as the most opportune sun arose,
the porcelain cup was not at hand; he placed the pastils immediately
on the upper surface of the stand; they were kindled, and so great was
the devotion of the priest, that he did not observe, until it was too
late, the mischief his sacrifice was doing. The pastils had burned
mercilessly into the red lacker and beautiful gold flowers, and as if
some evil spirit had disappeared, had left their black, ineffaceable
footprints. By this the young priest was thrown into the most extreme
perplexity. The mischief could be covered up, it was true, with the
larger pieces of his show-materials, but the spirit for new offerings
was gone, and the accident might almost be considered a hint and
warning of the danger there always is in wishing to approach the Deity
in such a way.


[1] A chief judge or magistrate of the town.

[2] An old silver coin.




SECOND BOOK.


All that has been hitherto recorded indicates that happy and easy
condition in which nations exist during a long peace. But nowhere
probably is such a beautiful time enjoyed in greater comfort than in
cities living under their own laws, and large enough to include a
considerable number of citizens, and so situated as to enrich them by
trade and commerce. Strangers find it to their advantage to come and
go, and are under a necessity of bringing profit in order to acquire
profit. Even if such cities rule but a small territory, they are
the better qualified to advance their internal prosperity, as their
external relations expose them to no costly undertakings or alliances.

Thus, the Frankforters passed a series of prosperous years during my
childhood; but scarcely, on the 28th of August, 1756, had I completed
my seventh year, than that world-renowned war broke out, which was
also to exert great influence upon the next seven years of my life.
Frederick the Second, King of Prussia, had fallen upon Saxony, with
sixty thousand men; and instead of announcing his invasion by a
declaration of war, he followed it up with a manifesto, composed by
himself, as it was said, which explained the causes that had moved
and justified him in so monstrous a step. The world, which saw itself
appealed to not merely as spectator but as judge, immediately split
into two parties, and our family was an image of the great whole.

My grandfather, who, as _Schöff_ of Frankfort, had carried the
coronation canopy over Francis the First, and had received from the
Empress a heavy gold chain with her likeness, took the Austrian side
along with some of his sons-in-law and daughters. My father having
been nominated to the imperial council by Charles the Seventh,
and sympathising sincerely in the fate of that unhappy monarch,
leaned towards Prussia, with the other and smaller half of the
family. Our meetings, which had been held on Sundays for many years
uninterruptedly, were very soon disturbed. The misunderstandings so
common among relatives by marriage, now first found a form in which
they could be expressed. Contention, discord, silence, and separation
ensued. My grandfather, otherwise a serene, quiet, and easy man,
became impatient. The women vainly endeavoured to smother the flames;
and after some unpleasant scenes, my father was the first to quit the
society. At home now we rejoiced undisturbed in the Prussian victories,
which were commonly announced with great glee by our vivacious aunt.
Every other interest was forced to give way to this, and we passed the
rest of the year in perpetual agitation. The occupation of Dresden, the
moderation of the king at the outset, his slow but secure advances, the
victory at Lowositz, the capture of the Saxons, were so many triumphs
for our party. Everything that could be alleged for the advantage of
our opponents was denied or depreciated; and as the members of the
family on the other side did the same, they could not meet in the
streets without disputes arising, as in _Romeo and Juliet._

[Side-note: Family Disputes.]

Thus I also was then a Prussian in my views, or, to speak more
correctly, a Fritzian; since what cared we for Prussia? It was the
personal character of the great king that worked upon all hearts. I
rejoiced with my father in our conquests, readily copied the songs of
triumph, and almost more willingly the lampoons directed against the
other party, poor as the rhymes might be.

As the eldest grandson and godchild, I had dined every Sunday since my
infancy with my grandfather and grandmother, and the hours so spent
had been the most delightful of the whole week. But now I relished no
morsel that I tasted, because I was compelled to hear the most horrible
slanders of my hero. Here blew another wind, here sounded another tone
than at home. My liking and even my respect for my grandfather and
grandmother fell off. I could mention nothing of this to my parents,
but avoided the matter, both on account of my own feelings, and because
I had been warned by my mother. In this way I was thrown back upon
myself; and as in my sixth year, after the earthquake at Lisbon, the
goodness of God had become to me in some measure suspicious, so I began
now, on account of Frederick the Second, to doubt the justice of the
public. My heart was naturally inclined to reverence, and it required
a great shock to stagger my faith in anything that was venerable. But
alas! they had commended good manners and a becoming deportment to
us, not for their own sake, but for the sake of the people. What will
people say? was always the cry, and I thought that the people must
be right good people, and would know how to judge of anything and
everything. But my experience went just to the contrary. The greatest
and most signal services were defamed and attacked; the noblest deeds,
if not denied, were at least misrepresented and diminished; and this
base injustice was done to the only man who was manifestly elevated
above all his contemporaries, and who daily proved what he was able
to do,--and that, not by the populace, but by distinguished men, as I
took my grandfather and uncles to be. That parties existed, and that he
himself belonged to a party, had never entered into the conceptions of
the Boy. He, therefore, believed himself all the more right, and dared
hold his own opinion for the better one, since he and those of like
mind appreciated the beauty and other good qualities of Maria Theresa,
and even did not grudge the Emperor Francis his love of jewelry and
money. That Count Daun was often called an old dozer, they thought
justifiable.

But now I consider the matter more closely, I trace here the germ
of that disregard and even disdain of the public, which clung to me
for a whole period of my life, and only in later days was brought
within bounds by insight and cultivation. Suffice it to say, that the
perception of the injustice of parties had even then a very unpleasant,
nay, an injurious effect upon the Boy, as it accustomed him to separate
himself from beloved and highly-valued persons. The quick succession
of battles and events left the parties neither quiet nor rest. We ever
found a malicious delight in reviving and re-sharpening those imaginary
evils and capricious disputes; and thus we continued to tease each
other, until the occupation of Frankfort by the French some years
afterwards, brought real inconvenience into our homes.

[Side-note: In-door Amusements.]

Although to most of us the important events occurring in distant parts
served only for topics of ardent controversy, there were others who
perceived the seriousness of the times, and feared that the sympathy
of France might open a scene of war in our own vicinity. They kept
us children at home more than before, and strove in many ways to
occupy and amuse us. With this view, the puppet-show bequeathed by our
grandmother was again brought forth, and arranged in such a way that
the spectators sat in my gable room, while the persons managing and
performing, as well as the theatre itself as far as the proscenium,
found a place in the room adjoining. We were allowed, as a special
favour, to invite first one and then another of the neighbours'
children as spectators, and thus at the outset I gained many friends;
but the restlessness inherent in children, did not suffer them to
remain long a patient audience. They interrupted the play, and we
were compelled to seek a younger public, which could at any rate be
kept in order by the nurses and maids. The original drama to which
the puppets had been specially adapted, we had learnt by heart, and
in the beginning this was exclusively performed. Soon growing weary
of it, however, we changed the dresses and decorations, and attempted
various other pieces, which were indeed on too grand a scale for so
narrow a stage. Although this presumption spoiled and finally quite
destroyed what we performed, such childish pleasures and employments
nevertheless exercised and advanced in many ways my power of invention
and representation, my fancy and a certain technical skill, to a degree
which in any other way could not perhaps have been secured in so short
a time, in so confined a space, and at so little expense.

I had early learned to use compasses and ruler, because all the
instructions they gave me in geometry were forthwith put into practice,
and I occupied myself greatly with pasteboard-work. I did not stop at
geometrical figures, little boxes, and such things, but invented pretty
pleasure-houses adorned with pilasters, steps, and flat roofs. However,
but little of this was completed.

Far more persevering was I, on the other hand, in arranging, with
the help of our domestic (a tailor by trade), an armoury for the
service of our plays and tragedies, which we ourselves performed
with delight when we had outgrown the puppets. My playfellows, too,
prepared for themselves such armouries, which they regarded as quite
as fine and good as mine; but I had made provision not for the wants
of one person only, and could furnish several of the little band with
every requisite, and thus made myself more and more indispensable to
our little circle. That such games tended to factions, quarrels, and
blows, and commonly came to a sad end in tumult and vexation, may
easily be supposed. In such cases certain of my companions generally
took part with me, while others sided against me; though many changes
of party occurred. One single boy, whom I will-call Pylades, urged by
the others, once only left my party, but could scarcely for a moment
maintain his hostile position. We were reconciled amid many tears, and
for a long time afterwards kept faithfully together.

To him, as well as other well-wishers, I could render myself very
agreeable by telling tales, which they most delighted to near when I
was the hero of my own story. It greatly rejoiced them to know that
such wonderful things could befall one of their own playfellows; nor
was it any harm that they did not understand how I could find time and
space for such adventures, as they must have been pretty well aware
of all my comings and goings, and how I was occupied the entire day.
Not the less necessary was it for me to select the localities of these
occurrences, if not in another world, at least in another spot; and
yet all was told as having taken place only to-day or yesterday. They
rather, therefore, deceived themselves, than were imposed upon by me.
If I had not gradually learned, in accordance with the instincts of my
nature, to work up these visions and conceits into artistic forms, such
vain-glorious beginnings could not have gone on without producing evil
consequences for myself in the end.

Considering this impulse more closely, we may see in it that
presumption with which the poet authoritatively utters the greatest
improbabilities, and requires every one to recognise as real whatever
may in any way seem to him, the inventor, as true.

But what is here told only in general terms, and by way of reflection,
will perhaps become more apparent and interesting by means of an
example. I subjoin, therefore, one of these tales, which, as I often
had to repeat it to my comrades, still hovers entire in my imagination
and memory.


THE NEW PARIS.

A BOY'S LEGEND.

On the night before Whit Sunday, not long since, I dreamed that I
stood before a mirror, engaged with the new summer clothes which my
dear parents had given me for the holiday. The dress consisted, as you
know, of shoes of polished leather, with large silver buckles, fine
cotton stockings, black nether garments of serge, and a coat of green
baracan with gold buttons. The waistcoat of gold cloth was cut out of
my father's bridal waistcoat. My hair had been frizzled and powdered,
and my curls stuck out from my head like little wings; but I could
not finish dressing myself, because I kept confusing the different
articles, the first always falling off as soon as I was about to put
on the next. In this dilemma, a young and handsome man came to me, and
greeted me in the friendliest manner. "O! you are welcome!" said I,
"I am very glad to see you here." "Do you know me, then?" replied he,
smiling. "Why not?" was my no less smiling answer; "you are Mercury--I
have often enough seen you represented in pictures." "I am, indeed,"
replied he; "and am sent to you by the gods on an important errand.
Do you see these three apples?"--he stretched forth his hand, and
showed me three apples, which it could hardly hold, and which were as
wonderfully beautiful as they were large, the one of a red, the other
of a yellow, the third of a green colour. One could not help thinking
they were precious stones made into the form of fruit. I would have
snatched them, but he drew back, and said, "You must know, in the first
place, that they are not for you. You must give them to the three
handsomest youths of the city, who then, each according to his lot,
will find wives to the utmost of their wishes. Take them, and success
to you!" said he, as he departed, leaving the apples in my open hands.
They appeared to me to have become still larger. I held them up at
once against the light and found them quite transparent; but soon they
expanded upwards, and became three beautiful little ladies, about as
large as middle-sized dolls, whose clothes were of the colours of the
apples. They glided gently up my fingers, and when I was about to catch
at them, to make sure of one at least, they had already soared high and
far, and I had to put up with the disappointment. I stood there alt
amazed and petrified, holding up my hands and staring at my fingers,
as if there were still something on them to see. Suddenly I beheld,
upon the very tips, a most lovely girl dancing, smaller than those, but
pretty and lively, and as she did not fly away like the others, but
remained dancing, now on one finger-point now on another, I regarded
her for a long while with admiration. And, as she pleased me so much,
I thought in the end I could catch her, and made as I fancied a very
adroit grasp. But at the moment I felt such a blow on my head, that I
fell down stunned, and did not awake from my stupor till it was time to
dress myself and go to church.

During the service I often recalled those images to mind; and also when
I was eating dinner at my grand-father's table. In the afternoon, I
wished to visit some friends, partly to show myself in my now dress,
with my hat under my arm and my sword by my side, and partly to return
their visits. I found no one at home, and, as I heard that they were
gone to the gardens, I resolved to follow them, and pass the evening
pleasantly. My way led towards the entrenchments, and I came to the
spot which is rightly called the Bad Wall; for it is never quite safe
from ghosts there. I walked slowly, and thought of my three goddesses,
but especially of the little nymph; and often held up my fingers, in
hopes she might be kind enough to balance herself there again. With
such thoughts I was proceeding, when I saw in the wall on my left hand
a little gate, which I did not remember to have ever noticed before.
It looked low, but its pointed arch would have allowed the tallest man
to enter. Arch and wall were chiselled out in the handsomest way, both
by mason and sculptor; but it was the door itself which first properly
attracted my attention. The old brown wood, though slightly ornamented,
was crossed with broad bands of brass, wrought both in relief and
intaglio. The foliage on these, with the most natural birds sitting in
it, I could not sufficiently admire. But, what seemed most remarkable,
no keyhole could be seen, no latch, no knocker; and from this I
conjectured that the door could be opened only from within. I was not
in error; for when I went nearer, in order to touch the ornaments,
it opened inwards, and there appeared a man whose dress was somewhat
long, wide, and singular. A venerable beard enveloped his chin, so
that I was inclined to think him a Jew. But he, as if he had divined
my thoughts, made the sign of the Holy Cross, by which he gave me to
understand that he was a good Catholic Christian. "Young gentleman,
how came you here, and what are you doing?"--he said to me, with a
friendly voice and manner. "I am admiring," I replied, "the workmanship
of this door; for I have never seen anything like it, except in some
small pieces in the collections of amateurs." "I am glad," he answered,
"that you like such works. The door is much more beautiful inside. Come
in, if you like." My heart, in some degree, failed me. The mysterious
dress of the porter, the seclusion, and a something, I know not what,
that seemed to be in the air, oppressed me. I paused, therefore, under
the pretext of examining the outside still longer; and at the same
time I cast stolen glances into the garden, for a garden it was which
had opened before me. Just inside the door I saw a space. Old linden
trees, standing at regular distances from each other, entirely covered
it with their thickly interwoven branches, so that the most numerous
parties, during the hottest of the day, might have refreshed themselves
in the shade. Already I had stepped upon the threshold, and the old
man contrived gradually to allure me on. Properly speaking, I did not
resist; for I had always heard that a prince or sultan in such a case
must never ask whether there be danger at hand. I had my sword by my
side, too; and could I not soon have finished with the old man, in case
of hostile demonstrations? I therefore entered perfectly reassured; the
keeper closed the door, which bolted so softly that I scarcely heard
it. He now showed me the workmanship on the inside, which in truth
was still more artistic than the outside, explained it to me, and at
the same time manifested particular good-will. Being thus entirely
at my ease, I let myself be guided in the shaded space by the wall,
that formed a circle, where I found much to admire. Niches tastefully
adorned with shells, corals, and pieces of ore, poured a profusion of
water from the mouths of Tritons into marble basins. Between them were
aviaries and other lattice-work, in which squirrels frisked about,
guinea-pigs ran hither and thither, with as many other pretty little
creatures as one could wish to see. The birds called and sang to us as
we advanced; the starlings particularly chattered the silliest stuff.
One always cried, Paris! Paris! and the other Narcissus! Narcissus! as
plainly as a schoolboy can say them. The old man seemed to continue
looking at me earnestly while the birds called out thus, but I feigned
not to notice it, and had in truth no time to attend to him; for I
could easily perceive that we went round and round, and that this
shaded space was in fact a great circle, which inclosed another much
more important. Indeed we had actually reached the small door again,
and it seemed as though the old man would let me out. But my eyes
remained directed towards a golden railing, which seemed to hedge round
the middle of this wonderful garden, and which I had found means enough
of observing in our walk, although the old man managed to keep me
always close to the wall, and therefore pretty far from the centre. And
now, just as he was going to the door, I said to him, with a bow, "You
have been so extremely kind to me, that I would fain venture to make
one more request before I part from you. Might I not look more closely
at that golden railing, which appears to inclose in a very wide circle
the interior of the garden?" "Very willingly," replied he: "but in that
case you must submit to some conditions." "In what do they consist?" I
asked hastily. "You must leave here your hat and sword, and must not
let go my hand while I accompany you." "Most willingly," I replied;
and laid my hat and sword on the nearest stone bench. Immediately he
grasped my left hand with his right, held it fast, and led me with some
force straight forwards. When we reached the railing, my wonder changed
into amazement. On a high socle of marble stood innumerable spears
and partisans, ranged beneath each other, joined by their strangely
ornamented points, and forming a complete circle. I looked through the
intervals, and saw just behind a gently flowing piece of water, bounded
on both sides by marble, and displaying in its clear depths a multitude
of gold and silver fish, which moved about now slowly and now swiftly,
now alone and now in shoals. I would also fain have looked beyond the
canal, to see what there was in the heart of the garden. But I found,
to my great sorrow, that the other side of the water was bordered by
a similar railing, and with so much art, that to each interval on
this side exactly fitted a spear or partisan on the other. These and
the other ornaments rendered it impossible for one to see through,
stand as one would. Besides, the old man, who still held me fast,
prevented me from moving freely. My curiosity, meanwhile, after all
that I had seen, increased more and more; and I took heart to ask the
old man whether one could not pass over. "Why not?" returned he, "but
on new conditions." When I asked him what these were, he gave me to
understand that I must put on other clothes. I was satisfied to do so;
he led me back towards the wall, into a small neat room, on the sides
of which hung many kinds of garments, all of which seemed to approach
the oriental costume. I soon changed my dress. He confined my powdered
hair under a many coloured net, after having to my horror violently
dusted it out. Now standing before a great mirror, I found myself quite
handsome in my disguise, and pleased myself better than in my formal
Sunday clothes. I made gestures and leaped as I had seen the dancers
do at the Fair-theatre. In the midst of this I looked in the glass,
and saw by chance the image of a niche which was behind me. On its
white ground hung three green cords, each of them twisted up in a way
which from the distance I could not clearly discern. I therefore turned
round rather hastily, and asked the old man about the niche as well as
the cords. He very courteously took a cord down, and showed it to me.
It was a band of green silk of moderate thickness; the ends of which
joined by green leather with two holes in it, gave it the appearance
of an instrument for no very desirable purpose. The thing struck me as
suspicious, and I asked the old man the meaning. He answered me very
quietly and kindly, "This is for those who abuse the confidence which
is here readily shown them." He hung the cord again in its place, and
immediately desired me to follow him; for this time he did not hold me,
and so I walked freely beside him.

My chief curiosity now was to discover where the gate and bridge, for
passing through the railing and over the canal, might be; since as yet
I had not been able to find anything of the kind. I therefore watched
the golden fence very narrowly as we hastened towards it. But in a
moment my sight failed; lances, spears, halberds, and partisans, began
unexpectedly to rattle and quiver, and this strange movement ended
in all the points sinking towards each other, just as if two ancient
hosts, armed with pikes, were about to charge. The confusion to the
eyes, the clatter to the ears, was hardly to be borne; but infinitely
surprising was the sight when falling perfectly level, they covered the
circle of the canal, and formed the most glorious bridge that one can
imagine. For now a most variegated garden parterre met my sight. It
was laid out in curvilinear beds, which, looked at together, formed a
labyrinth of ornaments; all with green borders of a low woolly plant,
which I had never seen before; all with flowers, each division of
different colours, which being likewise low and close to the ground,
allowed the plan to be easily traced. This delicious sight, which I
enjoyed in the full sunshine, quite rivetted my eyes. But I hardly
knew where I was to set my foot; for the serpentine paths were most
delicately laid with blue sand, which seemed to form upon the earth a
darker sky, or a sky seen in the water: and so I walked for a while
beside my conductor, with my eyes fixed upon the ground, until at last
I perceived that, in the middle of this round of beds and flowers,
there was a great circle of cypresses or poplar-like trees, through
which one could not see, because the lowest branches seemed to spring
out of the ground. My guide, without taking me directly the shortest
way, led me nevertheless immediately towards that centre: and how was
I astonished, when on entering the circle of high trees, I saw before
me the peristyle of a magnificent garden-house, which seemed to have
similar prospects and entrances on the other sides! The heavenly music
which streamed from the building, transported me still more than this
model of architecture. I fancied that I heard now a lute, now a harp,
now a guitar, and now something tinkling, which did not belong to any
of these instruments. The door which we approached opened soon after a
light touch by the old man. But how was I amazed, when the porteress,
who came out, perfectly resembled the delicate girl who had danced
upon my fingers in the dream! She greeted me as if we were already
acquainted, and invited me to walk in. The old man remained behind, and
I went with her through a short passage, arched and finely ornamented,
to the middle hall, the splendid dome-like ceiling of which attracted
my gaze on my entrance, and filled me with astonishment. Yet my eye
could not linger long on this, being allured down by a more charming
spectacle. On a carpet, directly under the middle of the cupola, sat
three women, in a triangle, clad in three different colours; one red,
the other yellow, the third green. The seats were gilt, and the carpet
was a perfect flower-bed. In their arras lay the three instruments
which I had been able to distinguish from the outside; for being
disturbed by my arrival, they had stopped their playing. "Welcome!"
said the middle one, who sat with her face to the door, in a red dress,
and with the harp. "Sit down by Alert, and listen, if you are a lover
of music."

Now first I remarked that there was a rather long bench placed
obliquely before them, on which lay a mandoline. The pretty girl
took it up, sat down, and drew me to her side. Now also I looked at
the second lady on my right. She wore the yellow dress, and had the
guitar in her hand; and if the harp-player was dignified in form,
grand in features, and majestic in her deportment, one might remark in
the guitar-player an easy grace and cheerfulness. She was a slender
blonde--while the other was adorned by dark brown hair. The variety
and accordance of their music could not prevent me from remarking the
third beauty, in the green dress, whose lute-playing was for me at once
touching and striking. She was the one who seemed to notice me the
most, and to direct her music to me; only I could not make up my mind
about her; for she appeared to me now tender, now whimsical, now frank,
now self-willed, according as she changed her mien and mode of playing.
Sometimes she seemed to wish to move me, sometimes to teaze me; but
do what she would, she got little out of me; for my little neighbour,
by whom I sat elbow to elbow, had gained me entirely to herself; and
while I clearly saw in those three ladies the Sylphides of my dream,
and recognised the colours of the apples, I conceived that I had no
cause to detain them. The pretty little maiden I would rather have
captured, if I had not but too feelingly remembered the blow which she
had given me in my dream. Hitherto she had remained quite quiet with
her mandoline; but when her mistresses had ceased, they commanded her
to perform some pleasant little piece. Scarcely had she jingled off
some dancing tune, in a most exciting manner, than she sprang up; I
did the same. She played and danced; I was hurried on to accompany her
steps, and we executed a kind of little ballet, with which the ladies
seemed satisfied; for as soon as we had done, they commanded the little
girl to refresh me with something nice till supper should come in. I
had indeed forgotten that there was anything in the world beyond this
paradise. Alert led me back immediately into the passage by which I
had entered. On one side of it she had two well-arranged rooms. In
that in which she lived, she set before me oranges, figs, peaches, and
grapes; and I enjoyed with great gusto both the fruits of foreign lands
and those of our own not yet in season. Confectionary there was in
profusion; she filled, too, a goblet of polished crystal with foaming
wine; but I had no need to drink, as I had refreshed myself with the
fruits. "Now we will play," said she, and led me into the other room.
Here all looked like a Christmas fair; but such costly and exquisite
things were never seen in a Christmas booth. There were all kinds of
dolls, dolls' clothes, and dolls' furniture; kitchens, parlours, and
shops, and single toys innumerable. She led me round to all the glass
cases, in which these ingenious works were preserved. But she soon
closed again the first cases, and said--"That is nothing for you, I
know well enough. Here," she said, "we could find building materials,
walls and towers, houses, palaces, churches, to put together a great
city. But this does not entertain me. We will take something else,
which will be pleasant alike to both of us." Then she brought out some
boxes, in which I saw an army of little soldiers piled one upon the
other, of which I must needs confess that I had never seen anything
so beautiful. She did not leave me time to examine them closely in
detail, but took one box under her arm, while I seized the other.--"We
will go," she said, "upon the golden bridge. There one plays best with
soldiers; the lances give at once the direction in which the armies are
to be opposed to each other." We had now reached the golden trembling
floor; and below me I could hear the waters gurgle, and the fishes
splash, while I knelt down to range my columns. All, as I now saw, were
cavalry. She boasted that she had the Queen of the Amazons as leader of
her female host. I, on the contrary, found Achilles and a very stately
Grecian cavalry. The armies stood facing each other, and nothing could
have been seen more beautiful. They were not flat leaden horsemen like
ours, but man and horse were round and solid, and most finely wrought;
nor could one conceive how they kept their balance, for they stood of
themselves, without a support for their feet.

Both of us had inspected our hosts with much self-complacency, when she
announced the onset. We had found ordnance in our chests, viz., little
boxes full of well-polished agate balls. With these we were to fight
against each other from a certain distance, while, however, it was an
express condition that we should not throw with more force than was
necessary to upset the figures, as none of them were to be injured. Now
the cannonade began on both sides, and at first it succeeded to the
satisfaction of us both. But when my adversary observed that I aimed
better than she, and might in the end win the victory, which depended
on the majority of pieces remaining upright, she came nearer, and her
girlish way of throwing had then the desired result. She prostrated
a multitude of my best troops, and the more I protested the more
eagerly did she throw. This at last vexed me, and I declared that I
would do the same. In fact, I not only went nearer, but in my rage
threw with much more violence, so that it was not long before a pair
of her little centauresses flew in pieces. In her eagerness she did
not instantly notice it, but I stood petrified when the broken figures
joined together again of themselves; Amazon and horse became again one
whole, and also perfectly close, set up a gallop from the golden bridge
under the lime-trees, and running swiftly backwards and forwards, were
lost in their career, I know not how, in the direction of the wall.
My fair opponent had hardly perceived this, when she broke out into
loud weeping and lamentation, and exclaimed that I had caused her an
irreparable loss, which was far greater than could be expressed. But
I, by this time provoked, was glad to annoy her, and blindly flung a
couple of the remaining agate balls with force into the midst of her
army. Unhappily I hit the queen, who had hitherto, during our regular
game, been excepted. She flew in pieces, and her nearest officers were
also shivered. But they swiftly set themselves up again, and started
off like the others, galloping very merrily about under the lime-trees,
and disappearing against the wall. My opponent scolded and abused me;
but being now in full play, I stooped to pick up some agate balls
which rolled about upon the golden lances. It was my fierce desire to
destroy her whole army. She, on the other hand, not idle, sprang at
me, and gave me a box on the ear which made my head ring again. Having
always heard that a hearty kiss was the proper response to a girl's
box of the ear, I took her by the ears, and kissed her repeatedly. But
she gave such a piercing cry as frightened even me; I let her go, and
it was fortunate that I did so; for in a moment I knew not what was
happening to me. The ground beneath me began to quake and rattle; I
soon remarked that the railings again set themselves in motion; but
I had no time to consider, nor could I get a footing so as to fly.
I feared every instant to be pierced, for the partisans and lances,
which had lifted themselves up, were already slitting my clothes. It
is sufficient to say that, I know not how it was, hearing and sight
failed me, and I recovered from my swoon and terror at the foot of a
lime-tree, against which the pikes in springing up had thrown me. As
I awoke, my anger awakened also, and violently increased when I heard
from the other side the gibes and laughter of my opponent, who had
probably reached the earth somewhat more softly than I. Thereupon I
sprang up, and as I saw the little host, with its leader Achilles,
scattered around me, having been driven over with me by the rising of
the rails, I seized the hero first and threw him against a tree. His
resuscitation and flight now pleased me doubly, a malicious pleasure
combining with the prettiest sight in the world; and I was on the point
of sending all the other Greeks after him, when suddenly hissing waters
spurted at me on all sides, from stones and walls, from ground and
branches; and wherever I turned dashed against me crossways.

My light garment was in a short time wet through; it was already rent,
and I did not hesitate to tear it entirely off my body. I cast away my
slippers, and one covering after another. Nay, at last I found it very
agreeable to let such a shower-bath play over me in the warm day. Now,
being quite naked, I walked gravely along between these welcome waters,
where I thought to enjoy myself for some time. My anger cooled, and I
wished for nothing more than a reconciliation with my little adversary.
But, in a twinkling the water stopped, and I stood drenched upon the
saturated ground. The presence of the old man, who appeared before me
unexpectedly, was by no means welcome; I could have wished, if not to
hide, at least to clothe myself. The shame, the shivering, the effort
to cover myself in some degree, made me cut a most piteous figure.
The old man employed the moment in venting the severest reproaches
against me. "What hinders me," he exclaimed, "from taking one of the
green cords, and fitting it, if not to your neck, to your back?" This
threat I took in very ill part. "Refrain," I cried, "from such words,
even from such thoughts, for otherwise you and your mistresses will be
lost." "Who then are you," he asked in defiance, "who dare speak thus?"
"A favourite of the gods," I said, "on whom it depends whether those
ladies shall find worthy husbands and pass a happy life, or be left to
pine and wither in their magic cell." The old man stepped some paces
back. "Who has revealed that to you?" he inquired, with astonishment
and concern. "Three apples," I said--"three jewels." "And what
reward do you require?" he exclaimed. "Before all things, the little
creature," I replied, "who has brought me into this accursed state."
The old man cast himself down before me, without shrinking from the
wet and miry soil; then he arose without being wetted, took me kindly
by the hand, led me into the hall, clad me again quickly, and I was
soon once more decked out and frizzled in my Sunday fashion as before.
The porter did not speak another word; but before he let me pass the
entrance, he stopped me, and showed me some objects on the wall over
the way, while, at the same time, he pointed backwards to the door. I
understood him; he wished to imprint the objects on my mind, that I
might the more certainly find the door, which had unexpectedly closed
behind me. I now took good notice of what was opposite to me. Above
a high wall rose the boughs of extremely old nut-trees, and partly
covered the cornice at the top. The branches reached down to a stone
tablet, the ornamented border of which I could perfectly recognise,
though I could not read the inscription. It rested on the top-stone of
a niche, in which a finely-wrought fountain poured water from cup to
cup into a great basin, that formed, as it were, a little pond, and
disappeared in the earth. Fountain, inscription, nut-trees, all stood
directly one above another; I would paint it as I saw it.

Now, it may well be conceived how I passed this evening and many
following days, and how often I repeated to myself this story, which
even I could hardly believe. As soon as it was in any degree possible,
I went again to the Bad Wall, at least to refresh my remembrance of
these signs, and to look at the precious door. But, to my great
amazement, I found ad changed. Nut-trees, indeed, overtopped the
wall, but they did not stand immediately in contact. A tablet also
was inserted in the wall, but far to the right of the trees, without
ornament, and with a legible inscription. A niche with a fountain was
found far to the left, but with no resemblance whatever to that which I
had seen; so that I almost believed that the second adventure was, like
the first, a dream; for of the door there is not the slightest trace.
The only thing that consoles me is the observation, that these three
objects seem always to change their places. For in repeated visits to
the spot, I think I have noticed that the nut-trees have moved somewhat
nearer together, and that the tablet and the fountain seem likewise to
approach each other. Probably, when all is brought together again, the
door, too, will once more be visible; and I will do my best to take up
the thread of the adventure. Whether I shall be able to tell you what
further happens, or whether it will be expressly forbidden me, I cannot
say.

       *       *       *       *       *

This tale, of the truth of which my playfellows vehemently strove to
convince themselves, received great applause. Each of them visited
alone the place described, without confiding it to me or the others,
and discovered the nut-trees, the tablet, and the spring, though
always at a distance from each other; as they at last confessed to me
afterwards, because it is not easy to conceal a secret at that early
age. But here the contest first arose. One asserted that the objects
did not stir from the spot and always maintained the same distance: a
second averred that they did move, and that too away from each other:
a third agreed with the latter as to the first point of their moving,
though it seemed to him that the nut-tree, tablet, and fountain rather
drew near together: while a fourth had something still more wonderful
to announce, which was, that the nut-trees were in the middle, but that
the tablet and the fountain were on sides opposite to those which I had
stated. With respect to the traces of the little door they also varied.
And thus they furnished me an early instance of the contradictory news
men can hold and maintain in regard to matters quite simple and easily
cleared up. As I obstinately refused the continuation of my tale, a
repetition of the first part was often desired. I was on my guard,
however, not to change the circumstances much, and by the uniformity
of the narrative I converted the fable into truth in the minds of my
hearers.

Yet I was averse to falsehood and dissimulation, and altogether by
no means frivolous. Rather, on the contrary, the inward earnestness
with which I had early begun to consider myself and the world, was
seen even in my exterior, and I was frequently called to account,
often in a friendly way, and often in raillery, for a certain dignity
which I had assumed. For, although good and chosen friends were
certainly not wanting to me, we were always a minority against those
who found pleasure in assailing us with wanton rudeness, and who
indeed often awoke us in no gentle fashion from that legendary and
self-complacent dreaming in which we--I by inventing, and my companions
by sympathising--were too readily absorbed. Thus we learned once more,
that instead of sinking into effeminacy and fantastic delights, there
was reason rather for hardening ourselves, in order either to bear or
to counteract inevitable evils.

[Side-note: Juvenile Stoicism.]

Among the stoical exercises which I cultivated, as earnestly as it
was possible for a lad, was even the endurance of bodily pain. Our
teachers often treated us very unkindly and unskilfully, with blows and
cuffs, against which we hardened ourselves all the more as obstinacy
was forbidden under the severest penalties. A great many of the sports
of youth, moreover, depend on a rivalry in such endurances; as, for
instance, when they strike each other alternately, with two fingers
or the whole fist, till the limbs are numbed, or when they bear
the penalty of blows, incurred in certain games, with more or less
firmness; when in wrestling or scuffling they do not let themselves
be perplexed by the pinches of a half-conquered opponent; or finally,
when they suppress the pain inflicted for the sake of teasing, and even
treat with indifference the nips and ticklings with which young persons
are so active towards each other. Thus we gain a great advantage, of
which others cannot speedily deprive us.

But as I made a sort of boast of this impassiveness, the importunity
of the others was increased; and, since rude barbarity, knows no
limits, it managed to force me beyond my bounds. Let one case suffice
for several. It happened once that the teacher did not come for the
usual hour of instruction. As long as we children were all together,
we entertained ourselves quite agreeably; but when my adherents, after
waiting long enough, went away, and I remained alone with three of my
enemies, these took it into their heads to torment me, to shame me,
and to drive me away. Having left me an instant in the room, they came
back with switches, which they had made by quickly cutting up a broom.
I noted their design, and as I supposed the end of the hour near, I at
once resolved not to resist them till the clock struck. They began,
therefore, without remorse, to lash my legs and calves in the cruellest
fashion. I did not stir, but soon felt that I had miscalculated, and
that such pain greatly lengthened the minutes. My wrath grew with my
endurance, and at the first stroke of the hour, I grasped the one who
least expected it by the hair behind, hurled him to the earth in an
instant, pressing my knee upon his back; the second, a younger and
weaker ore, who attacked me from behind, I drew by the head under my
arm, and almost throttled him with the pressure. The last, and not the
weakest, still remained; and my left hand only was left for my defence.
But I seized him by the clothes, and with a dexterous twist on my part,
and an over precipitate one on his, I brought him down and struck his
face on the ground. They were not wanting in bites, pinches, and kicks,
but I had nothing but revenge in my limbs as well as in my heart. With
the advantage which I had acquired, I repeatedly knocked their heads
together. At last they raised a dreadful shout of murder, and were
were soon surrounded by all the inmates of the house. The switches
scattered around, and my legs, which I had bared of the stockings, soon
bore witness for me. They put off the punishment, and let me leave the
house; but I declared that in future, on the slightest offence, I would
scratch out the eyes, tear off the ears, of any one of them, if not
throttle him.

This event, though, as usually happens in childish affairs, it was
soon forgotten, and even laughed over, was yet the cause that these
instructions in common became fewer, and at last entirely ceased. I was
thus again, as formerly, kept more at home, where I found my sister
Cornelia, who was only one year younger than myself, a companion always
growing more agreeable.

Still, I will not leave this topic without narrating some more stories
of the many vexations caused me by my playfellows; for this is the
instructive part of such moral communications, that a man may learn how
it has gone with others, and what he also has to expect from life; and
that whatever comes to pass, he may consider that it happens to him
as a man, and not as one specially fortunate or unfortunate. If such
knowledge is of little use for avoiding evils, it is very serviceable
so far as it qualifies us to understand our condition, and bear or even
to overcome it.

Another general remark will not be out of place here, which is, that as
the children of the cultivated classes grow up, a great contradiction
appears. I refer to the fact, that they are urged and trained, by
parents and teachers, to deport themselves moderately, intelligently,
and even wisely; to give pain to no one from petulance or arrogance,
and to suppress all the evil impulses which may be developed in them;
but yet, on the other hand, while the young creatures are engaged in
this discipline, they have to suffer from others that which in them
is reprimanded and punished. In this way, the poor things are brought
into a sad strait between the natural and civilised states, and after
restraining themselves for a while, break out according to their
characters into cunning or violence.

[Side-note: Rudeness of Juvenile Companions.]

Force is rather to be put down by force; but a well-disposed child,
inclined to love and sympathy, has little to oppose to scorn and
ill-will. Though I managed pretty well to keep off the active assaults
of my companions, I was by no means equal to them in sarcasm and abuse;
because he who merely defends himself in such cases, is always a loser.
Attacks of this sort, consequently, when they went so far as to excite
anger, were repelled with physical force, or at least excited strange
reflections in me, which could not be without results. Among other
advantages which my ill-wishers grudged me, was the pleasure I took in
the relations that accrued to the family from my grandfather's position
of Schultheiss, since, as he was the first of his class, this had no
small effect on those belonging to him. Once, when after the holding
of the Piper's-court, I appeared to pride myself on having seen my
grandfather in the midst of the council, one step higher than the rest,
enthroned, as it were, under the portrait of the Emperor, one of the
boys said to me in derision, that like the peacock contemplating his
feet, I should cast my eyes back to my paternal grandfather, who had
been keeper of the Willow-inn, and would never have aspired to thrones
and coronets. I replied that I was in no wise ashamed of that, as it
was the glory and honour of our native city that all its citizens might
consider each other equal, and every one derive profit and honour
from his exertions in his own way. I was sorry only that the good man
had been so long dead; for I had often yearned to know him in person,
had many times gazed upon his likeness, nay, had visited his tomb,
and had at least derived pleasure from the inscription on the simple
monument of that past existence to which I was indebted for my own.
Another ill-wisher, who was the most malicious of all, took the first
aside, and whispered something in his ear, while they still looked at
me scornfully. My gall already began to rise, and I challenged them to
speak out. "What is more, then, if you will have it," continued the
first, "this one thinks you might go looking about a long time before
you could find your grandfather!" I now threatened them more vehemently
if they did not more clearly explain themselves. Thereupon they brought
forward an old story, which they pretended to have overheard from their
parents, that my father was the son of some eminent man, while that
good citizen had shown himself willing to take outwardly the paternal
office. They had the impudence to produce all sorts of arguments; as,
for example, that our property came exclusively from our grandmother,
that the other collateral relations, who lived in Friedburg and other
places, were all alike destitute of property, and other reasons of the
sort, which could merely derive their weight from malice. I listened to
them more composedly than they expected, for they stood ready to fly
the very moment that I should make a gesture as if I would seize their
hair. But I replied quite calmly, and in substance, "that even this was
no great injury to me. Life was such a boon, that one might be quite
indifferent as to whom one had to thank for it, since at least it must
be derived from God, before whom we all were equals." As they could
make nothing of it, they let the matter drop for this time; we went on
playing together as before, which among children is an approved mode of
reconciliation.

[Side-note: Goethe's Reputed Grandfather.]

Still those spiteful words inoculated me with a sort of moral disease,
which crept on in secret. It would not have displeased me at all to
have been the grandson of any person of consideration, even if it had
not been in the most lawful way. My acuteness followed up the scent--my
imagination was excited, and my sagacity put in requisition. I began to
investigate the allegation, and invented or found for it new grounds of
probability. I had heard little said of my grandfather, except that his
likeness, together with my grandmother's, had hung in a parlour of the
old house; both of which, after the building of the new one, had been
kept in an upper chamber. My grandmother must have been a very handsome
woman, and of the same age as her husband. I remembered, also, to have
seen in her room the miniature of a handsome gentleman in uniform,
with star and order, which, after her death, and during the confusion
of house-building, had disappeared with many other small pieces of
furniture. These, and many other things, I put together in my childish
head, and exercised that modern poetical talent which contrives to
obtain the sympathies of the whole cultivated world by a marvellous
combination of the important events of human life.

But as I did not venture to trust such an affair to any one, or even
to ask the most remote questions concerning it, I was not wanting in
a secret diligence, in order to get, if possible somewhat nearer to
the matter. I had heard it explicitly maintained, that sons often
bore a decided resemblance to their fathers or grandfathers. Many of
our friends, especially Councillor Schneider, a friend of the family,
were connected by business with all the princes and noblemen of the
neighbourhood, of whom, including both the ruling and the younger
branches, not a few had estates on the Rhine and Maine, and in the
intermediate country, and who at times honoured their faithful agents
with their portraits. These, which I had often seen on the walls from
my infancy, I now regarded with redoubled attention, seeking whether I
could not detect some resemblance to my father or even to myself, which
too often happened to lead me to any degree of certainty. For now it
was the eyes of this, now the nose of that, which seemed to indicate
some relationship. Thus these marks led me delusively backwards and
forwards; and though in the end I was compelled to regard the reproach
as a completely empty tale, the impression remained, and I could not
from time to time refrain from privately calling up and testing all the
noblemen whose images had remained very clear in my fancy. So true is
it that whatever inwardly confirms man in his self conceit, or flatters
his secret vanity, is so highly desirable to him, that he does not ask
further, whether in other respects it may turn to his honour or his
disgrace.

But instead of mingling here serious and even reproachful reflections,
I rather turn my look away from those beautiful times; for who is
able to speak worthily of the fulness of childhood? We cannot behold
the little creatures which flit about before us otherwise than-with
delight, nay, with admiration; for they generally promise more than
they perform, and it seems that nature, among the other roguish tricks
that she plays us, here also especially designs to make sport of us.
The first organs she bestows upon children coming into the world, are
adapted to the nearest immediate condition of the creature, which,
unassuming and artless, makes use of them in the readiest way for its
present purposes. The child, considered in and for itself, with its
equals, and in relations suited to its powers, seems so intelligent
and rational, and at the same time so easy, cheerful, and clever,
that one can hardly wish it further cultivation. If children grew up
according to early indications, we should have nothing but geniuses;
but growth is not merely development; the various organic systems which
constitute one man, spring one from another, follow each other, change
into each other, supplant each other, and even consume each other; so
that after a time scarcely a trace is to be found of many aptitudes and
manifestations of ability. Even when the talents of the man have on the
whole a decided direction, it will be hard for the greatest and most
experienced connoisseur to declare them beforehand with confidence,
although afterwards it is easy to remark what has pointed to a future.

By no means, therefore, is it my design wholly to comprise the stories
of my childhood in these first books; but I will rather afterwards
resume and continue many a thread which ran through the early years
unnoticed. Here, however, I must remark what an increasing influence
the incidents of the war gradually exercised upon our sentiments and
mode of life.

The peaceful citizen stands in a wonderful relation to the great events
of the world. They already excite and disquiet him from a distance,
and even if they do not touch him, he can scarcely refrain from an
opinion and a sympathy. Soon he takes a side, as his character or
external circumstances may determine. But when such grand fatalities,
such important changes, draw nearer to him, then with many outward
inconveniences remains that inward discomfort, which doubles and
sharpens the evil and destroys the good which is still possible. Then
he has really to suffer from friends and foes, often more from those
than from these, and he knows not how to secure and preserve either his
interests or his inclinations.

[Side-note: Feelings of The Frankforters in 1757.]

The year 1757, which still passed in perfectly civic tranquillity,
kept us, nevertheless, in great uneasiness of mind. Perhaps no other
was more fruitful of events than this. Conquests, achievements,
misfortunes, restorations, followed one upon another, swallowed up and
seemed to destroy each other; yet the image of Frederick, his name and
glory, soon hovered again above all. The enthusiasm of his worshippers
grew always stronger and more animated, the hatred of his enemies more
bitter, and the diversity of opinion, which separated even families,
contributed not a little to isolate citizens, already sundered in many
ways and on other grounds. For in a city like Frankfort, where three
religions divide the inhabitants into three unequal masses, where
only a few men, even of the ruling faith, can attain to political
power, there must be many wealthy and educated persons who are thrown
back upon themselves, and, by means of studies and tastes, form for
themselves an individual and secluded existence. It will be necessary
for us to speak of such men, now and hereafter, if we are to bring
before us the peculiarities of a Frankfort citizen of that time.

My father, immediately after his return from his travels, had in his
own way formed the design, that to prepare himself for the service
of the city, he would undertake one of the subordinate offices, and
discharge its duties without emolument, if it were conferred upon
him without balloting. In the consciousness of his good intentions,
and according to his way of thinking and the conception which he had
of himself, he believed that he deserved such a distinction, which
indeed was not conformable to law or precedent. Consequently, when his
suit was rejected, he fell into ill-humour and disgust, vowed that he
would never accept of any place, and in order to render it impossible,
procured the title of Imperial Councillor, which the Schultheiss and
elder _Schöffen_ bear as a special honour. He had thus made himself an
equal of the highest, and could not begin again at the bottom. The same
impulse induced him also to woo the eldest daughter of the Schultheiss,
so that he was excluded from the council on this side also. He was now
of that number of recluses who never form themselves into a society.
They are as much isolated in respect to each other as they are in
regard to the whole, and the more so as in this seclusion the character
becomes more and more uncouth. My father, in his travels and in the
world which he had seen, might have formed some conception of a more
elegant and liberal mode of life than was, perhaps, common among his
fellow-citizens. In this respect, however, he was not entirely without
predecessors and associates.

The name of UFFENBACH is well known. At that time there was a Schöff
von Uffenbach, who was generally respected. He had been in Italy, had
applied himself particularly to music, sang an agreeable tenor, and
having brought home a fine collection of pieces, concerts and oratorios
were performed at his house. Now, as he sang in these himself, and held
musicians in great favour, it was not thought altogether suitable to
his dignity, and his invited guests, as well as the other people of the
country, allowed themselves many a jocose remark on the matter.

I remember, too, a BARON VON HAKEL, a rich nobleman, who being married,
but childless, occupied a charming house in the Antonius-street, fitted
up with all the appurtenances of a dignified position in life. He also
possessed good pictures, engravings, antiques, and much else which
generally accumulates with collectors and lovers of art. From time to
time he asked the more noted personages to dinner, and was beneficent
in a careful way of his own, since he clothed the poor in his own
house, but kept back their old rags, and gave them a weekly charity, on
condition that they should present themselves every time clean and neat
in the clothes bestowed on them. I can recall him but indistinctly, as
a genial, well-made man; but more clearly his auction, which I attended
from beginning to end, and, partly by command of my father, partly from
my own impulse, purchased many things that are still to be found in my
collections.

At an earlier date than this--so early that I scarcely set eyes upon
him--JOHN MICHAEL VON LOEN gained considerable repute in the literary
world, as well as at Frankfort Not a native of Frankfort, he settled
there, and married a sister of my grandmother Textor, whose maiden-name
was Lindheim. Familiar with the court and political world, and
rejoicing in a renewed title of nobility, he had acquired reputation by
daring to take part in the various excitements which arose in Church
and State. He wrote the _Count of Rivera_, a didactic romance, the
subject of which is made apparent by the second title, "or, the Honest
Man at Court." This work was well received, because it insisted on
morality even in courts, where prudence only is generally at home; and
thus his labour brought him applause and respect. A second work, for
that very reason, would be accompanied by more danger. He wrote _The
Only True Religion_, a book designed to advance tolerance, especially
between Lutherans and Calvinists. But here he got in a controversy
with the theologians: one Dr. Benner, of Giessen, in particular,
wrote against him. Von Loen rejoined; the contest grew violent and
personal, and the unpleasantness which arose from it caused him to
accept the office of President at Lingen, which Frederick II. offered
him, supposing that he was an enlightened, unprejudiced man, and not
averse to the new views that more extensively obtained in France. His
former countrymen, whom he left in some displeasure, averred that he
was not contented there, nay, could not be so, as a place like Lingen
was not to be compared with Frankfort. My father also doubted whether
the President would be happy, and asserted that the good uncle would
have done better not to connect himself with the king, as it was
generally hazardous to get too near him, extraordinary sovereign as
he undoubtedly was; for it had been seen how disgracefully the famous
Voltaire had been arrested in Frankfort, at the requisition of the
Prussian Resident Freitag, though he had formerly stood so high in
favour, and had been regarded as the king's teacher in French poetry.
There was no want, on such occasions, of reflections and examples,
to warn one against courts and princes' service, of which a native
Frankforter could scarcely form a conception.

[Side-note: Dr. Orth.]

An excellent man, Dr. ORTH, I will only mention by name, because here
I have not so much to erect a monument to the deserving citizens of
Frankfort, but rather refer to them so far forth as their renown or
personal character had some influence upon me in my earliest years.
Dr. Orth was a wealthy man, and was also of that number who never
took part in the government, although perfectly qualified to do so by
his knowledge and penetration. The antiquities of Germany, and more
especially of Frankfort, have been much indebted to him; he published
remarks on the so-called _Reformation of Frankfort_, a work in which
the statutes of the state are collected. The historical portions of
this book I diligently read in my youth.

VON OCHSENSTEIN, the eldest of the three brothers whom I have mentioned
above as our neighbours, had not been remarkable during his lifetime,
in consequence of his recluse habits, but became the more remarkable
after his death, by leaving behind him a direction that common
working-men should carry him to the grave, early in the morning,
in perfect silence, and without an attendant or follower. This was
done, and the affair excited great attention in the city, where they
were accustomed to the most pompous funerals. All who discharged the
customary offices on such occasions, rose against the innovation.
But the stout patrician found imitators in all classes, and though
such ceremonies were derisively called ox-burials,[1] they came into
fashion, to the advantage of many of the more poorly-provided families,
while funeral parades were less and less in vogue. I bring forward this
circumstance, because it presents one of the earlier symptoms of that
tendency to humility and equality, which in the second half of the last
century was manifested in so many ways, from above downwards, and broke
out in such unlooked-for effects.

Nor was there any lack of antiquarian amateurs. There were cabinets of
pictures, collections of engravings, while the curiosities of our own
country especially were zealously sought and hoarded. The older decrees
and mandates of the imperial city, of which no collection had been
prepared, were carefully searched for in print and manuscript, arranged
in the order of time, and preserved with reverence, as a treasure of
native laws and customs. The portraits of Frankforters, which existed
in great number, were also brought together, and formed a special
department of the cabinets.

Such men my father appears generally to have taken as his models. He
was wanting in none of the qualities that pertain to an upright and
respectable citizen. Thus, after he had built his house, he put his
property of every sort into order. An excellent collection of maps
by Schenck and other geographers at that time eminent, the aforesaid
decrees and mandates, the portraits, a chest of ancient weapons, a case
of remarkable Venetian glasses, cups and goblets, natural curiosities,
works in ivory, bronzes, and a hundred other things, were separated and
displayed, and I did not fail, whenever an auction occurred, to get
some commission for the increase of his possessions.


[Side-note: The Senkenbergs.]

I must still speak of one important family, of which I had heard
strange things since my earliest years, and of some of whose members
I myself lived to see a great deal that was wonderful--I mean the
SENKENBERGS. The father, of whom I have little to say, was an opulent
man. He had three sons, who even in their youth uniformly distinguished
themselves as oddities. Such things are not well received in a limited
city, where no one is suffered to render himself conspicuous, either
for good or evil. Nicknames and odd stories, long kept in memory,
are generally the fruit of such singularity. The father lived at the
corner of Hare-street _(Hasengasse)_, which took its name from a sign
on the house, that represented one hare at least, if not three hares.
They consequently called these three brothers only the three Hares,
which nick-name they could not shake off for a long while. But as
great endowments often announce themselves in youth in the form of
singularity and awkwardness, so was it also in this case. The eldest
of the brothers was the _Reichshofrath_ (Imperial Councillor) von
Senkenberg afterwards so celebrated. The second was admitted into
the magistracy, and displayed, eminent abilities, which, however, he
subsequently abused in a pettifogging and even infamous way, if not to
the injury of his native city, certainly to that of his colleagues.
The third brother, a physician and man of great integrity, but who
practised little, and that only in high families, preserved even in
his old age a somewhat whimsical exterior. He was always very neatly
dressed, and was never seen in the street otherwise than in shoes and
stockings, with a well-powdered curled wig, and his hat under his arm.
He walked on rapidly, but with a singular sort of stagger, so that
he was sometimes on one and sometimes on the other side of the way,
and formed a complete zigzag as he went. The wags said that he made
this irregular step to get out of the way of the departed souls, who
might follow him in a straight line, and that he imitated those who are
afraid of a crocodile. But all these jests and many merry sayings were
transformed at last into respect for him, when he devoted his handsome
dwelling-house in Eschenheimer-street, with court, garden, and all
other appurtenances, to a medical establishment, where, in addition
to a hospital designed exclusively for the citizens of Frankfort,
a botanic garden, an anatomical theatre, a chemical laboratory, a
considerable library, and a house for the director, were instituted in
a way of which no university need have been ashamed.

Another eminent man, whose efficiency in the neighbourhood and whose
writings, rather than his presence, had a very important influence upon
me, was CHARLES FREDERICK VON MOSER, who was perpetually referred to
in our district for his activity in business. He also had a character
essentially moral, which as the vices of human nature frequently gave
him trouble, inclined him to the so-called pious. Thus, what Von
Loen had tried to do in respect to court life, he would have done
for business-life, introducing into it a more conscientious mode
of proceeding. The great number of small German courts gave rise
to a multitude of princes and servants, the former of whom desired
unconditional obedience, while the latter, for the most part, would
work or serve only according to their own convictions. Thus arose an
endless conflict, and rapid changes and explosions, because the effects
of an unrestricted course of proceeding become much sooner noticeable
and injurious on a small scale than on a large one. Many families were
in debt, and Imperial Commissions of Debts were appointed: others found
themselves sooner or later on the same road; while the officers either
reaped an unconscionable profit, or conscientiously made themselves
disagreeable and odious. Moser wished to act as a statesman and man of
business, and here his hereditary talent, cultivated to a profession,
gave him a decided advantage; but he at the same time wished to act
as a man and a citizen, and surrender little as possible of his moral
dignity. His _Prince and Servant_, his _Daniel in the Lions' Den_, his
_Relics_, paint throughout his own condition, in which he felt himself
not indeed tortured, but always cramped. They all indicate impatience
in a condition, to the bearings of which one cannot reconcile oneself,
yet from which one cannot get free. With this mode of thinking and
feeling, he was, indeed, often compelled to seek other employments,
which, on account of his great cleverness, were never wanting. I
remember him as a pleasing, active, and at the same time gentle man.

[Side-note: Klopstock's "Messiah."]

The name of KLOPSTOCK had already produced a great effect upon us, even
at a distance. In the outset, people wondered how so excellent a man
could be so strangely named; but they soon got accustomed to this, and
thought no more of the meaning of the syllables. In my father's library
I had hitherto found only the earlier poets, especially those who in
his day had gradually appeared and acquired fame. All these had written
in rhyme, and my father held rhyme as indispensable in poetical works.
Canitz, Hagedorn, Drollinger, Gellert, Creuz, Haller, stood in a row,
in handsome calf bindings, to these were added Neukirch's _Telemachus_,
Koppen's _Jerusalem Delivered_, and other translations. I had from
my childhood diligently read through the whole of these works, and
committed portions to memory, whence I was often called upon to amuse
the company. A vexatious era on the other hand opened upon my father,
when through Klopstock's _Messiah_, verses, which seemed to him no
verses, became an object of public admiration.[2] He had taken good
care not to buy this book; but the friend of the family, Councillor
Schneider, smuggled it in, and slipped it into the hands of my mother
and her children.

On this man of business, who read but little, the _Messiah_, as soon
as it appeared, made a powerful impression. Those pious feelings, so
naturally expressed, and yet so beautifully elevated, that agreeable
language, even if considered merely as harmonious prose, had so won
the otherwise dry man of business, that he regarded the first ten
cantos, of which alone we are properly speaking, as the finest Book
of Devotion, and once every year in Passion week, when he managed to
escape from business, read it quietly through by himself, and thus
refreshed himself for the entire year. In the beginning he thought to
communicate his emotions to his old friend; but he was much shocked
when forced to perceive an incurable dislike cherished against a book
of such valuable substance, merely because of what appeared to him
an indifferent external form. It may readily be supposed that their
conversation often reverted to this topic; but both parties diverged
more and more widely from each other, there were violent scenes, and
the compliant man was at last pleased to be silent on his favourite
work, that he might not lose, at the same time, a friend of his youth,
and a good Sunday meal.

It is the most natural wish of every man to make proselytes, and how
much did our friend find himself rewarded in secret, when he discovered
in the rest of the family hearts so openly disposed for his saint.
The copy which he used only one week during the year, was devoted to
us all the remaining time. My mother kept it secret, and we children
took possession of it when we could, that in leisure hours, hidden in
some nook, we might learn the most striking passages by heart, and
particularly might impress the most tender as well as the most violent
parts on our memory, as quickly as possible.

Porcia's dream we recited in a sort of rivalry, and divided between
us the mid dialogue of despair between Satan and Adramelech, who have
been cast into the Red Sea. The first part, as the strongest, had
been assigned to me, and the second, as a little more pathetic, was
undertaken by my sister. The alternate and horrible but well-sounding
curses flowed only thus from our mouths, and we seized every
opportunity to accost each other with these infernal phrases.

One Saturday evening, in winter--my father always had himself shaved
over night, that on Sunday morning he might dress himself for church
at his ease--we sat on a footstool behind the stove, and muttered our
customary imprecations in a tolerably low voice, while the barber was
putting on the lather. But now Adramelech had to lay his iron hands on
Satan; my sister seized me with violence, and recited, softly enough,
but with increasing passion:--

    "Give me thine aid, I intreat thee, will worship thee, if thou requirest,
    Thee, thou monster abandoned, yes thee, of all criminals blackest;
    Aid me, I suffer the tortures of death, which is vengeful, eternal,
    Once, in the times gone by, with a hot fierce hate I could hate thee,
    Now I can hate thee no more! E'en this is the sharpest of tortures."

[Side-note: Klopstock's "Messiah."]

Thus far all went on tolerably; but loudly, with a dreadful voice, she
cried the following words:--

   "How am I crushed!"

The good surgeon was startled, and emptied the lather-basin into my
father's bosom. There was a great uproar, and a severe investigation
Wis held, especially with respect to the mischief which might have
been done if the shaving had been actually going forward. In order to
relieve ourselves of all suspicious of wantonness in the affair, we
confessed our Satanic characters, and the misfortune occasioned by the
hexameters was so apparent, that they were again condemned and banished.

Thin children and common people are accustomed to transform the great
and sublime into a sport, and even a jest; and how indeed could they
otherwise abide and tolerate it?


[1] A pun upon the name of Ochsenstein.--_Trans._

[2] The _Messiah_ is written in hexameter verse.--_Trans._




THIRD BOOK.


At that time the general interchange of personal good wishes made the
city very lively on New Year's day. Those who otherwise did not easily
leave home, donned their best clothes, that for a moment they might be
friendly and courteous to their friends and patrons. The festivities at
my grandfather's house on this day were pleasures particularly desired
by us children. At early dawn the grandchildren had already assembled
there to hear the drums, oboes, clarionets, trumpets, and cornets
played upon by the military, the city musicians, and whoever else might
furnish his tones. The New Year's gifts, sealed and superscribed,
were divided by us children among the humbler congratulators, and, as
the day advanced, the number of those of higher rank increased. The
relations and intimate friends appeared first, then the subordinate
officials; even the gentlemen of the council did not fail to pay their
respects to the _Schultheiss_, and a select number were entertained in
the evening in rooms which were else scarcely opened throughout the
year. The tarts, biscuits, marchpane, and sweet wine had the greatest
charm for the children, and, besides, the _Schultheiss_ and the two
Burgomasters annually received from some institutions some article of
silver, which was then bestowed upon the grandchildren and godchildren
in regular gradation. In fine, this small festival was not wanting in
any of those things which usually glorify the greatest.

[Side-note: Occupation of Frankfort by the French.]

The New Year's day of 1759 approached, as desirable and pleasant to us
children as any preceding one, but full of import and foreboding to
older persons. To the passage of the French troops people certainly
had become accustomed, and they happened often, but they had been
most frequent in the last days of the past year. According to the
old usage of an imperial town, the warder of the chief tower sounded
his trumpet whenever troops approached, and on this New Year's day
he would not leave off, which was a sign that large bodies were in
motion on several sides. They actually marched through the city in
greater masses on this day, and the people ran to see them pass by. We
had generally been used to see them go through in small parties, but
these gradually swelled, and there was neither power nor inclination
to stop them. In short, on the 2nd of January, after a column had come
through Sachsenhausen over the bridge, through the Fahrgasse, as far
as the Police Guard House--it halted, overpowered the small company
which escorted it, took possession of the before-mentioned Guard House,
marched down the Zeil, and after a slight resistance, the main guard
were also obliged to yield. In a moment the peaceful streets were
turned into a scene of war. The troops remained and bivouacked there
until lodgings were provided for them by regular billetting.

This unexpected, and, for many years, unheard-of burden weighed heavily
upon the comfortable citizens, and to none could it be more cumbersome
than to my father, who was obliged to take foreign military inhabitants
into his scarcely finished house, to open for them his well-furnished
reception rooms, which were generally closed, and to abandon to the
caprices of strangers all that he had been used to arrange and keep
so carefully. Siding as he did with the Prussians, he was now to find
himself besieged in his own chambers by the French;--it was, according
to his way of thinking, the greatest misfortune that could happen to
him. Had it, however, been possible for him to have taken the matter
more easily, he might have saved himself and us many sad hours, since
he spoke French well, and could deport himself with dignity and grace
in the daily intercourse of life. For it was the King's Lieutenant
who was quartered on us, and he, although a military person, had only
to settle civil occurrences, disputes between soldiers and citizens,
and questions of debt and quarrels. This was the Count Thorane, a
native of Grasse in Provence, not far from Antibes; a tall, thin, stem
figure, with a face much disfigured by the small pox, black fiery eyes,
and a dignified, reserved demeanour. His first entrance was at once
favourable for the inmates of the house. They spoke of the different
apartments, some of which were to be given up, and others retained
by the family; and when the Count heard a picture-room mentioned, he
immediately requested permission although it was already night, at
least to give a hasty look at the pictures by candlelight. He took
extreme pleasure in these things, behaved in the most obliging manner
to my father who accompanied him, and when he heard that the greater
part of the artists were still living, and resided in Frankfort and its
neighbourhood, he assured us that he desired nothing more than to know
them as soon as possible, and to employ them.

But even this sympathy in respect to art could not change my father's
feelings nor bend his character. He permitted what he could not
prevent, but kept at a distance in inactivity, and the uncommon state
of things around him was intolerable to him, even in the veriest trifle.

[Side-note: Count Thorane.]

Count Thorane behaved himself meanwhile in an exemplary manner. He
would not even have his maps nailed on the walls, that he might not
injure the new hangings. His people were skilful, quiet, and orderly;
but, in truth, as during the whole day and a part of the night there
was no quiet with him, one complainant quickly following another,
arrested persons being brought in and led out, and all officers and
adjutants being admitted to his presence;--as, moreover, the Count
kept an open table every day; it made in the moderately-sized house,
arranged only for a family, and with but one open staircase running
from top to bottom, a movement and a buzzing like that in a beehive,
although everything was managed with moderation, gravity, and severity.

As mediator between the irritable master of the house, who became daily
more of a hypochondriac self-tormentor, and his well-intentioned, but
stem and precise military guest, there was a pleasant interpreter, a
handsome, corpulent, lively man, who was a citizen of Frankfort, spoke
French well, knew how to adapt himself to everything, and only made
a jest of many little annoyances. Through him my mother had sent a
representation to the Count of the situation in which she was placed,
owing to her husband's state of mind. He had explained the matter so
skilfully--had laid before him the new and scarcely furnished house,
the natural reserve of the owner, his occupation in the education
of his family--and all that could be said to the same effect, that
the Count, who in his capacity took the greatest pride in the utmost
justice, integrity, and honourable conduct, resolved here also to
behave in an exemplary manner to those upon whom he was quartered,
and, indeed, never swerved from this resolution under varying
circumstances during the several years he stayed with us.

My mother possessed some knowledge of Italian, a language not
altogether unknown to any of the family; she therefore resolved to
learn French immediately, for which purpose the interpreter, for whose
child she had stood godmother during these stormy times, and who now
therefore, as a gossip,[1] felt a redoubled interest in our house,
devoted every spare moment to his child's godmother--for he lived
directly opposite--and above all, he taught her those phrases which she
would be obliged to use in her personal intercourse with the Count.
This succeeded admirably. The Count was flattered by the pains taken by
the mistress of the house at her years, and as he had a cheerful, witty
vein in his character, and he liked to exhibit a certain dry gallantry,
a most friendly relation arose between them, and the allied godmother
and father could obtain whatever they wanted from him.

As I said before, if it had been possible to cheer up my father,
this altered state of things would have caused little inconvenience.
The Count practised the severest disinterestedness; he even declined
receiving gifts which pertained to his situation; the most trifling
thing which could have borne the appearance of bribery, he rejected
angrily, and even punished. His people were most strictly forbidden to
put the proprietor of the house to the least expense. We children, on
the contrary, were bountifully supplied from the dessert. To give an
idea of the simplicity of those times, I must take this opportunity to
mention that my mother grieved us excessively one day by throwing away
the ices which had been sent us from the table, because she would not
believe it possible for the stomach to bear real ice, however it might
be sweetened.

Besides these dainties, which we gradually learned to enjoy and to
digest with perfect ease, it was very agreeable for us children to
be in some measure released from fixed hours of study and strict
discipline. My father's ill-humour increased, he could not resign
himself to the unavoidable. How he tormented himself, my mother, the
interpreter, the councillors, and all his friends, only to rid him
of the Count! In vain they represented to him that under existing
circumstances the presence of such a man in the house was an actual
benefit, and that the removal of the Count would be followed by a
constant succession of officers or of privates. None of these arguments
had any effect. To him the present seemed so intolerable, that his
indignation prevented his conceiving anything worse that could follow.

In this way his activity, which he had been used chiefly to employ
upon us, was crippled. The lessons he gave us were no longer required
with the former exactness, and we tried to gratify our curiosity for
military and other public proceedings as much as possible, not only at
home, but also in the streets, which was the more easily done, as the
front door, open day and night, was guarded by sentries who paid no
attention to the running to and fro of restless children.

The many affairs which were settled before the tribunal of the Royal
Lieutenant had quite a peculiar charm, from his making it a point
to accompany his decisions with some witty, ingenious, or lively
turn. What he decreed was strictly just, his manner of expressing it
whimsical and piquant. He seemed to have taken the Duke of Ossuna as
his model. Scarcely a day passed in which the interpreter did not tell
some anecdote or other of this kind to amuse us and my mother. This
lively man had made a little collection of such Selomonian decisions;
but I only remember the general impression, and cannot recall to my
mind any particular case.

By degrees we became better acquainted with the strange character of
the Count. This man clearly understood his own peculiarities, and as
there were times in which he was seized with a sort of dejection,
hypochondria, or by whatever name we may call the evil demon, he
withdrew into his room at such hours, which were often lengthened into
days, saw no one but his valet, and in urgent cases could not even be
prevailed upon to receive any one. But as soon as the Evil Spirit had
left him, he appeared as before, active, mild, and cheerful. It might
be inferred from the talk of his valet, Saint Jean, a small, thin man
of lively good-nature, that in his earlier years he had caused a great
misfortune when overcome by this temper; and that therefore, in so
important a position as his, exposed to the eyes of all the world, he
had earnestly resolved to avoid similar aberrations.

[Side-note: The Frankfort Painters.]

During the very first days of the Count's residence with us, all the
Frankfort artists, as Hirt, Schütz, Trautmann, Nothnagel, and Junker,
were called to him. They showed their finished pictures, and the Count
bought what were for sale. My pretty, light room in the gable-end of
the attic was given up to him, and immediately turned into a cabinet
and studio, for he designed to keep all the artists at work for a long
time, especially Seekatz of Darmstadt, whose pencil, particularly in
simple and natural representations, highly pleased him. He therefore
caused to be sent from Grasse, where his elder brother possessed a
handsome house, the dimensions of all the rooms and cabinets; then
considered with the artists, the divisions of the walls, and fixed
accordingly upon the size of the large oil-pictures, which were not
to be set in frames, but to be fastened upon the walls like pieces
of tapestry. And now the work went on zealously. Seekatz undertook
country scenes, and succeeded extremely well in his old people and
children, which were copied directly from nature. His young men did
not answer so well, they were almost all too thin, and his women
failed from the opposite cause. For as he had a little, fat, good, but
unpleasant-looking wife, who would let him have no model but herself,
he could produce nothing agreeable. He was also obliged to exceed
the usual size of his figures. His trees had truth, but the foliage
was over minute. He was a pupil of Brinkmann, whose pencil in easel
pictures is not contemptible.

Schütz, the landscape painter, had perhaps the best of the matter.
He was thoroughly master of the Rhine country, and of the sunny tone
which animates it in the fine season. Nor was he entirely unaccustomed
to work on a larger scale, and then he showed no want of execution or
keeping. His paintings were of a cheerful cast.

Trautmann _Rembrandtized_ some resurrection-miracles out of the New
Testament, and alongside of them set fire to villages and mills. One
cabinet was entirely allotted to him, as I found from the designs of
the rooms. Hirt painted some good oak and beech forests. His cattle
were praiseworthy. Junker, accustomed to the imitation of the most
elaborate Dutch, was least able to manage this tapestry-work, but he
condescended to ornament many compartments with flowers and fruits for
a handsome price.

As I had known all these men from my earliest youth, and had often
visited them in their studios, and as the Count also liked to have me
with him, I was present at the suggestions, consultations, and orders,
as well as at the deliveries of the pictures, and ventured to speak my
opinion freely when sketches and designs were handed in. I bad already
gained among amateurs, particularly at auctions, which I attended
diligently, the reputation of being able to tell at once what any
historical picture represented, whether taken from Biblical or Profane
History, or from Mythology; and even if I did not always hit upon the
meaning of allegorical pictures, there was seldom any one present who
understood it better than I. Often had I persuaded the artists to
represent this or that subject, and I now joyfully made use of these
advantages. I still remember writing a circumstantial essay, in which I
described twelve pictures which were to exhibit the history of Joseph;
some of them were executed.

After these achievements, which were certainly laudable in a boy, I
will mention a little disgrace which happened to me within this circle
of artists. I was well acquainted with all the pictures which had been
from time to time brought into that room. My youthful curiosity left
nothing unseen or unexplored. I once found a little black box behind
the stove; I did not fail to investigate what might be concealed in
it, and drew back the bolt without long deliberation. The picture
contained was certainly of a kind not usually exposed to view, and
although I tried to bolt it again immediately, I was not quick enough.
The Count entered and caught me--"Who allowed you to open that box?" he
asked, with all his air of a Royal Lieutenant. I had not much to say
for myself, and he immediately pronounced my sentence in a very stern
manner. "For eight days," said he, "you shall not enter this room." I
made a bow, and walked out. Even this order I obeyed most punctually,
so that the good Seekatz, who was then at work in the room, was very
much annoyed, for he liked to have mo about him; and, out of a little
spite, I carried my obedience so far, that I left Seekatz's coffee,
which I generally brought him, upon the threshold. He was then obliged
to leave his work and fetch it, which he took so ill, that he almost
conceived a dislike to me.

[Side-note: French Theatre.]

It now seems necessary to state more circumstantially, and to make
intelligible how, under these circumstances, I made my way with more
or less ease through the French language, which, however, I had never
learned. Here, too, my natural gift was of service to me, enabling
me easily to catch the sound of a language, its movement, accent,
tone, and all other outward peculiarities. I knew many words from the
Latin; Italian suggested still more; and by listening to servants and
soldiers, sentries and visitors, I soon picked up so much that, if
I could not join in conversation, I could at any rate manage single
questions and answers. All this, however, was little compared to the
profit I derived from the theatre. My grandfather had given me a free
ticket, which I used daily, in spite of my father's reluctance, by dint
of my mother's support. There I sat in the pit, before a foreign stage,
and watched the more narrowly the movement and the expression, both
of gesture and speech, as I understood little or nothing of what was
said, and therefore could only derive entertainment from the action and
the tone of voice. I understood least of comedy, because it was spoken
rapidly, and related to the affairs of common life, of the phrases of
which I knew nothing. Tragedy was not so often played, and the measured
step, the rhythm of the Alexandrines, the generality of the expression,
made it more intelligible to me in every way. It was not long before
I took up Racine, which I found in my father's library, and declaimed
the pieces to myself, in the theatrical style and manner, as the organ
of my ear and the organ of speech, so nearly akin to that, had caught
it, and this with considerable animation, although I could not perceive
the connexion of a whole speech. I even learned entire passages by
rote, like a trained talking-bird, which was easier to me, from having
previously committed to memory passages from the Bible which are
generally unintelligible to a child, and accustomed myself to reciting
them in the tone of the Protestant preachers. The versified French
comedy was then much in vogue; the pieces of Destouches, Marivaux, and
La CHAISE, were often produced, and I still remember distinctly many
characteristic figures. Of those of Molière I recollect less. What made
the greatest impression upon me was the _Hypermnestra_ of Lemière,
which, as a new piece, was brought out with care and often repeated.
The _Devin du Village, Rose et Colas, Annette Lubin_, made each a
very pleasant impression upon me. I can even now recall the youths
and maidens decorated with ribands, and their gestures. It was not
long before the wish arose in me to see the interior of the theatre,
for which many opportunities were offered me. For as I had not always
patience to hear out the whole pieces, and often carried on all sorts
of games with other children of my age in the corridors, and in the
milder season even before the door, a handsome, lively boy joined us,
who belonged to the theatre, and whom I had seen in many little parts,
though only casually. He came to a better understanding with me than
with the rest, as I could turn my French to account with him, and he
the more attached himself to me because there was no boy of his age
or his nation at the theatre, or anywhere in the neighbourhood. We
also went together at other times, as well as during the play, and
even while the representations went on he seldom left me in peace. He
was a most delightful little braggart, chattered away charmingly and
incessantly, and could tell so much of his adventures, quarrels, and
other strange incidents, that he amused me wonderfully, and I learned
from him in four weeks more of the language, and of the power of
expressing myself in it, than can be imagined; so that no one knew how
I had attained the foreign tongue all at once, as if by inspiration.

In the very earliest days of our acquaintance he took me with him upon
the stage, and led me especially to the _foyers_, where the actors
and actresses remained during the intervals of the performance, and
dressed and undressed. The place was neither convenient nor agreeable,
for they had squeezed the theatre into a concert-room, so that there
were no separate chambers for the actors behind the stage. A tolerably
large room adjoining, which had formerly served for card-parties, was
now mostly used by both sexes in common, who appeared to feel as little
ashamed before each other as before us children, if there was not
always the strictest propriety in putting on or changing the articles
of dress. I had never seen anything of the kind before, and yet from
habit, after repeated visits, I soon found it quite natural.

[Side-note: "Derones" and his Sister.]

It was not long before a very peculiar interest of my own arose. Young
Derones, for so I will call the boy whose acquaintance I still kept up,
was, with the exception of his boasting, a youth of good manners, and
very courteous demeanour. He made me acquainted with his sister, a girl
who was a few years older than we were, and a very pleasant, well-grown
girl, of regular form, brown complexion, black hair and eyes; her
whole deportment had about it something quiet, even sad. I tried to
make myself agreeable to her in every way, but I could not attract her
notice. Young girls think themselves far advanced beyond younger boys,
and while aspiring to young men, they assume the manner of an aunt
towards the boy whose first inclination is turned towards them.--With a
younger brother of his I had no acquaintance.

Often, when their mother had gone to rehearsals, or was out visiting,
we met at her house to play and amuse ourselves. I never went there
without presenting the fair one with a flower, a fruit, or something
else, which she always received very courteously, and thanked me for
most politely, but I never saw her sad look brighten, and found no
trace of her having given me a further thought. At last I fancied I
had discovered her secret. The boy showed me a crayon-drawing of a
handsome man, behind his mother's bed, which was hung with elegant silk
curtains, remarking at the same time, with a sly look, that this was
not papa, but just the same as papa; and as he glorified this man, and
told me many things in his circumstantial and ostentatious manner, I
thought I had discovered that the daughter might belong to the father,
but the other two children to the intimate friend. I thus explained to
myself her melancholy look, and loved her for it all the more.

My liking for this girl assisted me in bearing the extravagances of her
brother, who was not always within bounds. I had often to endure prolix
accounts of his exploits, how he had already often fought, without
wishing to injure the other--all for the mere sake of honour. He had
always contrived to disarm his adversary, and had then forgiven him;
nay, he was such a good fencer, that he was once very much perplexed by
striking the sword of his opponent up into a high tree, so that it was
not easy to be got again.

What much facilitated my visits to the theatre was, that my free
ticket, coming from the hands of the _Schultheiss_, gave me access to
any of the seats, and therefore also to those in the proscenium. This
was very deep, after the French style, and was bordered on both sides
with seats, which, surrounded by a low rail, ascended in several rows
one behind another, so that the first seats were but a little elevated
above the stage. The whole was considered a place of special honour,
and was generally used only by officers, although the nearness of the
actors destroyed, I will not say all illusion, but, in a measure,
all enjoyment. I have thus experienced and seen with my own eyes the
usage or abuse of which Voltaire so much complains. If, when the
house was very full at such time as troops were passing through the
town, officers of distinction strove for this place of honour, which
was generally occupied already, some rows of benches and chairs were
placed in the proscenium on the stage itself, and nothing remained
for the heroes and heroines but to reveal their secrets in the very
limited space between the uniforms and orders. I have even seen the
_Hypermnestra_ performed under such circumstances.

The curtain did not fall between the acts, and I must yet mention
a strange custom which I thought quite extraordinary, as its
inconsistency with art was to me, as a good German boy, quite
unendurable. The theatre was considered the greatest sanctuary, and
any disturbance occurring there would have been instantly resented
as the highest crime against the majesty of the public. Therefore in
all comedies, two grenadiers stood with their arms grounded, in full
view, at the two sides of the back scene, and were witnesses of all
that occurred in the bosom of the family. Since, as I said before, the
curtain did not fall between the acts, two others, while music struck
up, relieved guard, by coming from the wings, directly in front of
the first, who retired in the same measured manner. Now, if such a
practice was well fitted to destroy all that in the theatre is called
illusion, this is the more striking, because it was done at a time
when, according to Diderot's principles and examples, the most _natural
naturalness_ was required upon the stage, and a perfect deception was
proposed as the proper aim of theatrical art. Tragedy, however, was
absolved from any such military-police regulations, and the heroes of
antiquity had the right of guarding themselves; nevertheless, the same
grenadiers stood near enough behind the side-scenes.

I will also mention that I saw Diderot's "Father of a Family," and
"The Philosophers" of Palissot, and still perfectly remember the figure
of the philosopher in the latter piece going upon all fours, and biting
into a raw head of lettuce.

[Side-note: Duel with "Derones."]

All this theatrical variety could not, however, keep us children
always in the theatre. In fine weather we played in front of it, and
in the neighbourhood, and committed all manner of absurdities, which,
especially on Sundays and festivals, by no means corresponded to our
personal appearance; for I and my comrades then appeared dressed as I
described myself in the tale, with the hat under the arm, and a little
sword, the hilt of which was ornamented with a large silk knot. One
day when we had long gone in this way, and Derones had joined us, he
took it into his head to assert to me that I had insulted him, and must
give him satisfaction. I could not, in truth, conceive what was the
cause of this; but I accepted his challenge, and was going to draw my
sword. However, he assured me that in such cases it was customary to
go to secluded spots, in order to be able to settle the matter more
conveniently. We therefore went behind some barns, and placed ourselves
in the proper position. The duel took place in a somewhat theatrical
style, the blades clashed, and the thrusts followed close upon each
other; but in the heat of the combat he remained with the point of his
sword lodged in the knot of my hilt. This was pierced through, and he
assured me that he had received the most complete satisfaction; then
embraced me, also theatrically, and we went to the next coffee-house
to refresh ourselves with a glass of almond-milk after our mental
agitation, and to knit more closely the old bond of friendship.

On this occasion I will relate another adventure which also happened to
me at the theatre, although at a later time. I was sitting very quietly
in the pit with one of my playmates, and we looked with pleasure at a
_pas seul_, which was executed with much skill and grace by a pretty
boy about our own age--the son of a French dancing-master who was
passing through the city. After the fashion of dancers, he was dressed
in a close vest of red silk, which ending in a short hoop-petticoat,
like a runner's apron, floated above the knee. We had given our meed
of applause to this young artist with the whole public, when--I know
not how--it occurred to me to make a moral reflection. I said to
my companion, "How handsomely this boy was dressed, and how well he
looked; who knows in how tattered a jacket he may sleep to-night!"--All
had already risen, but the crowd prevented our moving. A woman who had
sat by me, and who was now standing close beside me, chanced to be the
mother of the young artist, and felt much offended by my reflection.
Unfortunately, she knew German enough to understand me, and spoke it
just as much as was necessary to scold. She abused me violently. Who
was I, she would like to know, that had a right to doubt the family and
respectability of this young man? At all events, she would be bound he
was as good as I, and his talents might probably procure him a fortune,
of which I could not even venture to dream. This moral lecture she
read me in the crowd, and made those about me wonder what rudeness I
had committed. As I could neither excuse myself nor escape from her, I
was really embarrassed, and when she paused for a moment, said without
thinking, "Well! why do you make such a noise about it?--to-day red,
to-morrow dead."[2] These words seemed to strike the woman dumb. She
stared at me, and moved away from me as soon as it was in any degree
possible. I thought no more of my words; only, some time afterwards,
they occurred to me, when the boy, instead of continuing to perform,
became ill, and that very dangerously. Whether he died or not, I cannot
say.

Such intimations, by an unseasonably or even improperly spoken word,
were held in repute even by the ancients, and it is very remarkable
that the forms of belief and of superstition have always remained the
same among all people and in all times.

From the first day of the occupation of our city, there was no lack of
constant diversion, especially for children and young people. Plays and
balls, parades, and marches through the town, attracted our attention
in all directions. The last particularly were always increasing, and
the soldiers' life seemed to us very merry and agreeable.

[Side-note: Marshal de Broglio.]

The residence of the King's Lieutenant at our house procured us the
advantage of seeing by degrees all the distinguished persons in the
French army, and especially of beholding close at hand the leaders
whose names had already been made known to us by reputation. Thus we
looked from stairs and landing-places, as if from galleries, very
conveniently upon the generals who passed by. Before all I remember
the PRINCE SOUBISE as a handsome, courteous gentleman, but most
distinctly the MARECHAL DE BROGLIO, who was a younger man, not tall,
but well-built, lively, active, and abounding in keen glances.

He often came to the King's Lieutenant, and it was soon remarked
that the conversation was on weighty matters. We had scarcely become
accustomed to having strangers quartered upon us in the first three
months, when a rumour was obscurely circulated that the Allies were
on the march, and that Duke Ferdinand of Brunswick was coming to
drive the French from the Maine. Of these, who could not boast of
any especial success in war, no high opinion was held, and after the
battle of Rossbach it was thought they might be dispersed. The greatest
confidence was placed in Duke Ferdinand, and all those favourable to
Prussia awaited with eagerness their delivery from the yoke hitherto
borne. My father was in somewhat better spirits--my mother was
apprehensive. She was wise enough to see that a small present evil
might easily be exchanged for a great affliction; since it was but
too plain that the French would not advance to meet the Duke, but
would wait an attack in the neighbourhood of the city. A defeat of the
French, a flight, a defence of the city, if it were only to cover their
rear and hold the bridge, a bombardment, a sack--all these presented
themselves to the excited imagination, and gave anxiety to both
parties. My mother, who could bear everything but suspense, imparted
her fears to the Count through the interpreter. She received the answer
usual in such cases: she might be quite easy, for there was nothing to
fear, and should keep quiet and mention the matter to no one.

Many troops passed through the city; we learned that they halted
at Bergen. The coming and going, the riding and running constantly
increased, and our house was in an uproar day and night. At this time
I often saw Marshal de Broglio, always cheerful, always the same in
look and manner, and I was afterwards pleased to find a man whose form
had made such a good and lasting impression upon me, so honourably
mentioned in history.

Thus, after an unquiet Passion-week, the Good-Friday of 1759 arrived.
A profound stillness announced the approaching storm. We children were
forbidden to quit the house: my father had no quiet, and went out. The
battle began: I ascended to the garret, where indeed I was prevented
seeing the country round, but could very well hear the thunder of
cannon and the general discharge of musketry. After some hours we saw
the first symptoms of the battle in a line of wagons, in which the
wounded, with various sad mutilations and gestures, were slowly drawn
by us, to be taken to the convent of St. Mary, now transformed into a
hospital. The compassion of the citizens was instantly moved. Beer,
wine, bread, and money were distributed to those who were yet able
to take them. But when, some time after, wounded and captive Germans
were seen in the train, the pity knew no limits, and it seemed as if
everybody would strip himself of every moveable that he possessed to
assist his suffering countrymen.

The prisoners, however, were an evidence of a battle unfavourable to
the allies. My father, whose party feelings made him quite certain that
these would come off victorious, had the violent temerity to go forth
to meet the expected victors, without thinking that the beaten party
must pass over him in their flight. He first repaired to his garden
before the Friedberg gate, where he found everything lonely and quiet,
then he ventured to the Bernheim heath, where he soon descried various
stragglers of the army, who were scattered and amused themselves by
shooting at the boundary-stones, so that the rebounding lead whizzed
round the head of the inquisitive wanderer. He therefore considered
it more prudent to go back, and learned on enquiry what the report of
the firing might have before informed him, that all stood well for the
French, and that there was no thought of retreating. Reaching home in
an ill-humour, the sight of his wounded and captured countrymen brought
him altogether out of his usual self-command. He also caused various
donations to be given to the passers by, but only the Germans were to
have them, which was not always possible, as fate had packed together
both friend and foe.

My mother and we children, who had already relied on the Count's word,
and had therefore passed a tolerably quiet day, were highly rejoiced,
and my mother doubly consoled, the next day, when having consulted
the oracle of her treasure-box, by the prick of a needle, she received
a very comfortable answer, both for present and future. We wished our
father similar faith and feelings; we flattered him as much as we
could; we entreated him to take some food, from which he had abstained
all day; but he repulsed our caresses and every enjoyment, and betook
himself to his chamber. Our joy, however, was not interrupted; the
affair was decided; the King's Lieutenant, who, against his habit, had
been on horseback to-day, at last returned home, where his presence was
more necessary than ever. We sprang to meet him, kissed his hands, and
testified our delight. This seemed much to please him. "Well," said
he more kindly than usual, "I am glad also for your sakes, my dear
children." He immediately ordered that sweetmeats, sweet wine, and the
best of everything should be given us, and went to his room, already
surrounded by a crowd of the urgent, the demanding, and the suppliant.

[Side-note: Quarrel with Count Thorane.]

We had now a fine collation, pitied our poor father who would not
partake of it, and pressed our mother to call him in; but she, more
prudent than we, well knew how distasteful such gifts would be to
him. In the meantime she had prepared some supper, and would readily
have sent a portion up to his room, but he never tolerated such an
irregularity even in the most extreme cases; and after the sweet
things were removed, we endeavoured to persuade him to come down into
the ordinary dining-room. At last he allowed himself to be persuaded
unwillingly, and we had no notion of the mischief which we were
preparing for him and ourselves. The staircase ran through the whole
house, along all the ante-rooms. My father in coming down had to go
directly past the Count's apartment. This ante-room was so full of
people, that the Count, to get through much at once, resolved to come
out, and this happened unfortunately at the moment when my father
descended. The Count met him cheerfully, greeted him, and remarked,
"You will congratulate yourselves and us that this dangerous affair is
so happily terminated." "By no means!" replied my father in a rage;
"would that it had driven you to the devil, even if I had gone with
you." The Count restrained himself for a moment, and then broke out
with wrath--"You shall pay for this," cried he; "you shall find that
you have not thus insulted the good cause and myself for nothing!"

My father, meanwhile, came down very calmly, seated himself near us,
seemed more cheerful than before, and began to eat. We were glad of
this, unconscious of the dangerous method in which he had rolled the
stone from his heart. Soon afterwards my mother was called out, and
we had great pleasure in chattering to our father about the sweet
things the Count had given us. Our mother did not return. At last the
interpreter came in. At a hint from him we were sent to bed; it was
already late, and we willingly obeyed. After a night quietly slept
through, we heard of the violent commotion which had shaken the house
the previous evening. The King's Lieutenant had instantly ordered my
father to be led to the guard-house. The subalterns well knew that
he was never to be contradicted; yet they had often earned thanks by
delaying the execution of his orders. The interpreter, whose presence
of mind never forsook him, contrived to excite this disposition in them
very strongly. The tumult, moreover, was so great, that a delay brought
with it its own concealment and excuse. He had called out my mother,
and put the adjutant, as it were, into her hands, that by prayers and
representations she might gain a brief postponement of the matter.
He himself hurried up to the Count, who with great self-command had
immediately retired into the inner room, and would rather allow the
most urgent affair to stand still, than wreak on an innocent person the
ill-humour once excited in him, and give a decision derogatory to his
dignity.

The address of the interpreter to the Count, the train of the whole
conversation, were often enough repeated to us by the fat interpreter,
who prided himself not a little on the fortunate result, so that I can
still describe it from recollection.

[Side-note: The "Gossip" and Count Thorane.]

The interpreter had ventured to open the cabinet and enter, an act
which was severely prohibited. "What do you want?" shouted the Count,
angrily. "Out with you!--no one but St. Jean has a right to enter here."

"Well, suppose I am St. Jean for a moment," answered the interpreter.

"It would need a powerful imagination for that! Two of him would not
make one such as you. Retire!"

"Count, you have received a great gift from heaven, and to that I
appeal."

"You think to flatter me! Do not fancy you will succeed."

"You have the great gift, Count, even in moments of passion--in moments
of rage, of listening to the opinions of others."

"Well, well, the question now is just about opinions, to which I have
listened too long. I know but too well that we are not liked here, and
that these citizens look askance at us."

"Not all!"

"Very many. What! These towns will be imperial towns, will they?
They saw their emperor elected and crowned, and when, being unjustly
attacked, he is in danger of losing his dominions and surrendering to
an usurper; when he fortunately finds faithful allies who pour out
their blood and treasure in his behalf--they will not put up with the
slight burden that falls to their share, towards humbling the enemy!"

"But you have long known these sentiments, and have endured them like
a wise man; they are, besides, held only by a minority. A few, dazzled
by the splendid qualities of the enemy, whom you yourself prize as an
extraordinary man, a few only--as you are aware."

"Yes, indeed! I have known and suffered it too long, otherwise this man
would not have presumed to utter such insults to my face, and at the
most critical moment. Let them be as many as they please, they shall
be punished in the person of this their audacious representative, and
perceive what they have to expect."

"Only delay, Count."

"In certain things one cannot act too promptly."

"Only a little delay, Count."

"Neighbour, you think to mislead me into a false step; you shall not
succeed."

"I would neither lead you into a false step nor restrain you from
one; your resolution is just; it becomes the Frenchman and the King's
Lieutenant; but consider that you are also Count Thorane!"

"He has no right to interfere here."

"But the gallant man has a right to be heard."

"What would he say then?"

"King's Lieutenant," he would begin, "you have so long had patience
with so many gloomy, untoward, bungling men, if they were not really
too bad. This man has certainly been too bad, but control yourself,
King's Lieutenant, and every one will praise and extol you on that
account."

"You know I can often endure your jests, but do not abuse my good-will.
These men--are they then completely blinded? Suppose we had lost the
battle, what would have been their fate at this moment? We fight up to
the gates, we shut up the city, we halt, we defend ourselves to cover
our retreat over the bridge. Think you, the enemy would have stood with
his hands before him? He throws grenades, and what he has at hand, and
they catch where they can. This house-holder--what would he have? Hero,
in these rooms, a bomb might now have burst, and another have followed
it;--in these rooms, the cursed China-paper of which I have spared,
incommoding myself, by not nailing up my maps! They ought to have spent
the whole day on their knees."

How many would have done that!"

"They ought to have prayed for a blessing on us, and to have gone out
to meet the generals and officers with tokens of honour and joy, and
the wearied soldiers with refreshments. Instead of this, the poison of
party-spirit destroys the fairest and happiest moments of my life, won
by so many cares and efforts."

"It is party-spirit; but you will only increase it by the punishment
of this man. Those who think with him will proclaim you a tyrant and
a barbarian:--they will consider him a martyr, who has suffered for
the good cause; and even those of the other opinion, who are now his
opponents, will see in him only their fellow-citizen, will pity him,
and while they confess your justice, will yet feel that you have
proceeded too severely."

"I have listened to you too much already,--now, away with you!"

"Hear only this. Remember this is the most unheard-of thing that could
befall this man, this family. You have had no reason to be edified
by the good-will of the master of the house; but the mistress has
anticipated all your wishes, and the children have regarded you as
their undo. With this single blow, you will for ever destroy the peace
and happiness of this dwelling. Indeed, I may say, that a bomb falling
into the house, would not have occasioned greater desolation. I have so
often admired your self-command, Count; give me this time opportunity
to adore you. A warrior is worthy of honour who considers himself a
guest in the house of an enemy; but here there is no enemy, only a
mistaking man. Control yourself, and you will acquire an everlasting
fame."

"That would be odd," replied the Count, with a smile.

"Merely natural," continued the interpreter; "I have not sent the wife
and children to your feet, because I know you detest such scenes; but
I will depict to you this wife and these children, how they will thank
you. I will depict them to you conversing all their lives of the battle
of Bergen, and of your magnanimity on this day, relating it to their
children, and children's children, and inspiring even strangers with
their own interest for you: an act of this kind can never perish."

"But you do not hit my weak side yet, interpreter! About posthumous
fame I am not in the habit of thinking; that is for others, not for me;
but to do right at the moment, not to neglect my duty, not to prejudice
my honour--that is my care. We have already had too many words; now
go--and receive the thanks of the thankless, whom I spare."

[Side-note: Thorane's Magnanimity.]

The interpreter, surprised and moved by this unexpectedly favourable
issue, could not restrain his tears, and would have kissed the Count's
hands. The Count motioned him off, and said severely and seriously,
"You know I cannot bear such things." And with these words he went
into the ante-room, to attend to his pressing affairs, and hear the
claims of so many expectant persons. So the matter was disposed of, and
the next morning we celebrated with the remnants of the yesterday's
sweetmeats, the passing over of an evil through the threatenings of
which we had happily slept.

Whether the interpreter really spoke so wisely, or merely so painted
the scene to himself, as one is apt to do after a good and fortunate
action, I will not decide; at least he never varied it in repeating
it. Indeed, this day seemed to him both the most anxious and the most
glorious in his life.

One little incident will show how the Count in general rejected all
false parade, never assumed a title which did not belong to him, and
how witty he was in his more cheerful moods.

A man of the higher class, who was one of the abstruse, solitary
Frankforters, thought he must complain of the quartering of the
soldiers upon him. He came in person, and the interpreter proffered him
his services, but the other supposed that he did not need them. He came
before the Count with a most becoming bow, and said, "Your excellency!"
The Count returned the bow, as-well as the "excellency." Struck by this
mark of honour, and not supposing but that the title was too humble,
he stooped lower, and said, "Monseigneur." "Sir," said the Count, very
seriously, "we will not go further, or else we may easily bring it to
Majesty." The ether gentleman was extremely confused, and had not a
word to utter. The interpreter, standing at some distance, and apprised
of the whole affair, was wicked enough not to move, but the Count,
with much cheerfulness, continued, "Well now, for instance, sir, what
is your name?" "Spangenberg," replied the other. "And mine," said the
Count, "is Thorane. Spangenberg, what is your business with Thorane?
Now, then, let us sit down; the affair shall at once be settled."

And thus the affair was indeed settled at once, to the great
satisfaction of the person I have here named Spangenberg, and the
same evening, in our family circle, the story was not only told by
the waggish interpreter, but was given with all the circumstances and
gestures.

After these confusions, disquietudes, and grievances, the former
security and thoughtlessness soon returned, in which the young
particularly live from day to day, if it be in any degree possible. My
passion for the French theatre grew with every performance. I did not
miss an evening, though on every occasion, when after the play I sat
down with the family to supper,--often putting up-with the remains,--I
had to endure the constant reproaches of my father, that theatres were
useless, and would lead to nothing. In these cases I adduced all and
every argument which is at hand for the apologists of the stage when
they fall into a difficulty like mine. Vice in prosperity and virtue
in misfortune, are in the end set right by poetical justice. Those
beautiful examples of misdeeds punished, _Miss Sarah Sampson_, and
the _Merchant of London_, were very energetically cited on my part;
but, on the other hand, I often came off worst when the _Fouberies de
Scapin_, and others of the sort, were in the bill, and I was forced to
bear reproaches for the delight felt by the public in the deceits of
intriguing servants, and the successful follies of prodigal young men.
Neither party was convinced; but my father was very soon reconciled to
the theatre when he saw that I advanced with incredible rapidity in the
French language.

[Side-note: Juvenile Attempt at the Drama.]

Men are so constituted that everybody would rather undertake himself
what he sees done by others, whether he has aptitude for it or not.
I had soon exhausted the whole range of the French stage; several
pieces I had already witnessed for the third and fourth times; all
had passed before my eyes and mind, from the stateliest tragedy to
the most frivolous after-piece; and as when a child I had presumed to
imitate Terence, I did not fail now as a boy, on a much more inciting
occasion, to copy the French forms to the best of my ability and
want of ability. There were then performed some half-mythological,
half-allegorical pieces in the taste of PIRON; they partook somewhat
of the nature of parody, and were much liked. These representations
particularly attracted me: the little gold wings of a lively Mercury,
the thunderbolt of a disguised Jupiter, an amorous Danaë, or by
whatever name a fair one visited by the gods might be called, if indeed
it were not a shepherdess or huntress to whom they descended. And as
elements of this kind, from _Ovid's >Metamorphosis_, or the _Pantheon
Mythicum_ of Pomey, were humming in swarms about my head--I had soon
put together in my imagination a little piece of the kind, of which I
can only say that the scene was rural, and that there was no lack in
it of king's daughters, princes, or gods. Mercury, especially, made so
vivid an impression on my senses, that I could almost be sworn that I
had seen him with my own eyes.

I presented my friend Derones with a very neat copy, made by myself,
which he accepted with quite a special grace, and with a truly
patronizing air, glanced hastily over the manuscript, pointed out a
few grammatical blunders, found some speeches too long, and at last
promised to examine and judge the work more attentively when he had
the requisite leisure. To my modest question, whether the piece could
by any chance be performed, he assured me that it was not altogether
impossible. In the theatre, he said, a great deal went by favour, and
he would support me with all his heart: only the affair must be kept
private; for he had himself once on a time surprised the directors with
a piece of his own, and it would certainly have been acted if it had
not been too soon detected that he was the author. I promised him all
possible silence; and already saw in my mind's eye the name of my piece
posted up in large letters on the comers of the streets and squares.

Light-minded as my friend generally was, the opportunity of playing the
master was but too desirable. He read the piece through with attention,
and while he sat down with me to make some trivial alterations,
turned the whole thing, in the course of the conversation, completely
topsy-turvy, so that not one stone remained on another. He struck out,
added, took away one character, substituted another,--in short, went
on with the maddest wantonness in the world, so that my hair stood on
end. My previous persuasion that he must understand the matter, allowed
him to have his way, for he had often laid before me so much about the
Three Unities of Aristotle, the regularity of the French drama, the
probability, the harmony of the verse, and all that belongs to these,
that I was forced to regard him, not merely as informed, but thoroughly
grounded. He abused the English and scorned the Germans; in short, he
laid before me the whole dramaturgic litany which I have so often in my
life been compelled to hear.

Like the boy in the fable, I carried my mangled offspring home, and
strove in vain to bring it to life. As, however, I would not quite
abandon it, I caused a fair copy of my first manuscript, after a few
alterations, to be made by our clerk, which I presented to my father,
and thus gained so much that for a long time he let me eat my supper in
quiet after the play was over.

[Side-note: Dramatic Theories.]

This unsuccessful attempt had made me reflective, and I resolved now to
learn at the very sources, these theories, these laws, to which every
one appealed, but which had become suspicious to me chiefly through
the impoliteness of my arrogant master. This was not indeed difficult,
but laborious. I immediately read Corneille's _Treatise on the Three
Unities_, and learned from that how people would have it, but why
they desired it so was by no means clear to me; and what was worst of
all, I fell at once into still greater confusion when I made myself
acquainted with the disputes on the _Cid_, and read the prefaces in
which Corneille and Racine are obliged to defend themselves against the
critics and public. Here at least I plainly saw that no man knew what
he wanted; that a piece like _the Cid_, which had produced the noblest
effect, was to be condemned at the command of an all-powerful cardinal;
that Racine, the idol of the French living in my day, who had now also
become my idol--(for I had got intimately acquainted with him when
Schöff Von Olenschlager made us children act _Britannicus_, in which
the part of Nero fell to me)--that Racine, I say, even in his own day,
was not able to get on with the amateurs nor critics. Through all this
I became more perplexed than ever, and after having pestered myself a
long time with this talking backwards and forwards, and theoretical
quackery of the previous century, threw them to the dogs, and was the
more resolute in casting all the rubbish away, the more I thought I
observed that the authors themselves who had produced excellent things,
when they began to speak about them, when they set forth the grounds
of their treatment, when they desired to defend, justify, or excuse
themselves, were not always able to hit the proper mark. I hastened
back again, therefore, to the living present, attended the theatre far
more zealously, read more scrupulously and connectedly, so that I had
perseverance enough this time to work through the whole of Racine and
Molière, and a great part of Corneille.

The King's Lieutenant still lived at our house. He in no respect
had changed his deportment, especially towards us; but it was
observable, and the interpreter made it still more evident to us,
that he no longer discharged his duties with the same cheerfulness
and zeal as at the outset, though always with the same rectitude
and fidelity. His character and habits, which showed the Spaniard
rather than the Frenchman; his caprices, which were not without their
influence on his business; his unbending will under all circumstances;
his susceptibility as to everything that concerned his person or
reputation--all this together might perhaps sometimes bring him into
conflict with his superiors. Add to this, that he had been wounded in
a duel, which had arisen in the theatre, and it was deemed wrong that
the King's Lieutenant, himself chief of police, should have committed
a punishable offence. As I have said, all this may have contributed to
make him live more retired, and here and there perhaps to act with less
energy.

Meanwhile, a considerable part of the pictures he had ordered had been
delivered. Count Thorane passed his leisure hours in examining them,
while in the aforesaid gable-room he had them nailed up, canvas after
canvas, large and small, side by side, and because there was want of
space, even one over another, and then taken down and rolled up. The
works were constantly inspected anew; the parts that were considered
the most successful were repeatedly enjoyed; but there was no want of
wishes that this or that had been differently done.

Hence arose a new and very singular operation. As one painter best
executed figures, another middle-grounds and distances, a third trees,
a fourth flowers, it struck the Count that these talents might perhaps
be combined in the paintings, and that in this way perfect works might
be produced. A beginning was made at once, by having for instance
some beautiful cattle painted into a finished landscape. But because
there was not always adequate room for all, and a few sheep more or
less was no great matter to the cattle-painter, the largest landscape
proved in the end too narrow. Now also the painter of figures had to
introduce the shepherd, and some travellers; these deprived each other
of air, as we may say; and we marvelled that they were not all stifled,
even in the most open country. No one could anticipate what was to
come of the matter, and when it was finished it gave no satisfaction.
The painters were annoyed. They had gained something by their first
orders, but lost by these after-labours, though the Count paid for
them also very liberally. And as the parts worked into each other in
one picture by several hands, produced no good effect after all the
trouble, every one, at last, fancied that his own work had been spoiled
and destroyed by that of the others; hence the artists were within a
hair's-breadth of falling out, and becoming irreconcilably hostile
to each other. These alterations, or rather additions, were made in
the before-mentioned studio, where I remained quite alone with the
artists; and it amused me to hunt out from the studies, particularly of
animals, this or that individual or group, and to propose it for the
foreground or the distance, in which respect they many times, either
from conviction or kindness, complied with my wishes.

[Side-note: The Painter Seekatz.]

The partners in this affair were therefore greatly discouraged,
especially Seekatz, a very hypochondriacal, retired man, who indeed by
his incomparable humour was the best of companions among friends, but
who, when he worked, desired to work alone, abstracted and perfectly
free. This man, after solving difficult problems, and finishing them
with the greatest diligence and the warmest love, of which he was
always capable, was forced to travel repeatedly from Darmstadt to
Frankfort, either to change something in his own pictures, or to touch
up those of others, or even to allow, under his superintendence, a
third person to convert his pictures into a variegated mess. His
peevishness augmented, his resistance became more decided, and a great
deal of effort was necessary on our part to guide this "gossip"--for he
was one also--according to the Count's wishes. I still remember that
when the boxes were standing ready to pack up all the pictures, in the
order in which the upholsterer at their place of destination might
fix them up at once, a small but indispensable bit of afterwork was
demanded, but Seekatz could not be moved to come over. He had, by way
of conclusion, done the best he could, having represented in paintings
to be placed over the doors, the four elements as children and boys,
after life, and having expended the greatest care, not only on the
figures, but on the accessories. These were delivered and paid for, and
he thought he was quit of the business for ever; but now he was to come
over again, that he might enlarge, by a few touches of his pencil, some
figures, the size of which was too small. Another, he thought, could do
it just as well; he had already set about some new work; in short, he
would not come. The time for sending off the pictures was at hand; they
must also have opportunity to dry; every delay was precarious; and the
Count, in despair, was about to have him fetched in military fashion.
We all wished to see the pictures finally gone, and found at last no
expedient than for the gossip interpreter to seat himself in a wagon,
and fetch over the refractory subject, with his wife and child. He was
kindly received by the Count, well treated, and at last dismissed with
liberal payment.

After the pictures had been sent away, there was great peace in the
house. The gable-room in the attic was cleaned and given up to me; and
my father, when he saw the boxes go, could not refrain from wishing
to send off the Count after them. For much as the tastes of the Count
coincided with his own, much as he must have rejoiced to see his
principle of patronizing living artists so generously followed out by
a man richer than himself, much as it may have flattered him that his
collection had been the occasion of bringing so considerable a profit
to a number of brave artists in a pressing time, he nevertheless felt
such a repugnance to the foreigner who had intruded into his house,
that he could not think well of any of his doings. One ought to employ
painters, but not degrade them to paper-stainers; one ought to be
satisfied with what they have done, according to their conviction
and ability, even if it does not thoroughly please one, and not be
perpetually carping at it. In short, in spite of all the Count's
own generous endeavours, there could, once for all, be no mutual
understanding. My father only visited that room when the Count was at
table, and I can recall but one instance, when, Seekatz having excelled
himself, and the wish to see these pictures having brought the whole
house together, my father and the Count met, and manifested a common
pleasure in these works of art, which they could not take in each other.

[Side-note: Departure of Thorane.]

Scarcely, therefore, had the house been cleared of the chests and
boxes, than the plan for removing the Count, which had formerly been
begun, but was afterwards interrupted, was resumed. The endeavour
was made to gain justice by representations, equity by entreaties,
favour by influence, and the quarter-masters were prevailed upon to
decide thus: the Count was to change his lodgings, and our house, in
consideration of the burden borne day and night for several years
uninterruptedly, was to be exempt for the future from billetting. But,
to furnish a plausible pretext for this, we were to take in lodgers on
the first floor, which the Count had occupied, and thus render a new
quartering as it were impossible. The Count, who after the separation
from his dear pictures felt no further peculiar interest in the house,
and hoped moreover to be soon recalled and placed elsewhere, was
pleased to move without opposition to another good residence, and left
us in peace and good-will. Soon afterwards he quitted the city, and
received different appointments in gradation, but, it was rumoured, not
to his own satisfaction. Meantime, he had the pleasure of seeing the
pictures which he had preserved with so much care felicitously arranged
in his brother's chateau; he wrote sometimes, sent dimensions, and had
different pieces executed by the artists so often named. At last we
heard nothing further about him, except after several years we were
assured that he had died as governor of one of the French colonies in
the West Indies.


[1] The obsolete word "gossip" has been revived as an equivalent for
the German "_Gevatter._" But it should be observed that this word not
only signifies godfather, but that the person whose child has another
person for godfather (or godmother) is that person's _Gevatter_, or
_Gevatterin_ (feminine).

[2] A German proverb, "Heute roth, morgen todt."




FOURTH BOOK.


Much inconvenience as the quartering of the French had occasioned
us, we had become so accustomed to it, that we could not fail to
miss it, nor could we children fail to feel as if the house were
deserted. Moreover it was not decreed that we should again attain
perfect family unity. New lodgers were already agreed upon, and after
some sweeping and scouring, planing and rubbing with bees'-wax,
painting and varnishing, the house was completely restored again. The
chancery-director Moritz, with his family, very worthy friends of
my parents, moved in. He was not a native of Frankfort, but an able
jurist and man of business, and managed the legal affairs of many small
princes, counts, and lords. I never saw him otherwise than cheerful
and pleasant, and diligent with his law papers. His wife and children,
gentle, quiet, and benevolent, did not indeed increase the sociableness
of our house, for they kept to themselves; but a stillness, a peace
returned, which we had not enjoyed for a long time. I now again
occupied my attic room, in which the ghosts of the many pictures
sometimes hovered before me, while I strove to frighten them away by
labour and study.

The Counsellor of Legation Moritz, a brother of the chancellor, came
from this time often to our house. He was even more a man of the world,
had a handsome figure, while his manners were easy and agreeable. He
also managed the affairs of different persons of rank, and on occasions
of meetings of creditors and imperial commissions frequently came into
contact with my father. They had a nigh opinion of each other, and
commonly stood on the side of the creditors, though they were generally
obliged to perceive, much to their vexation, that a majority of the
agents on such occasions are usually gained over to the side of the
debtors. The counsellor of legation readily communicated his knowledge,
was a friend to the** mathematics, and as these did not occur in his
present course of life, he made himself a pleasure by helping me on
in this branch of study. I was thus enabled to finish my architectural
sketches more accurately than heretofore, and to profit more by the
instruction of a drawing-master, who now also occupied us an hour every
day.

[Side-note: Lessons in Drawing.]

This good old man was indeed only half an artist. We were obliged to
draw and combine strokes, from which eyes and noses, lips and ears,
nay, at last, whole faces and heads, were to arise, but of natural or
artistic forms there was no thought. We were tormented a long while
with this _quid pro quo_ of the human figure, and when the so-called
Passions of Le Brun were given us to copy, it was supposed at last that
we had made great progress. But ever, these caricatures did not improve
us. Then we went off to landscapes, foliage, and all the things which
in ordinary instruction are practised without consistency or method.
Finally we dropped into close imitation and neatness of strokes,
without troubling ourselves about the merit or taste of the original.

In these attempts our father led the way in an exemplary manner.
He had never drawn, but he was unwilling to remain behind now that
his children pursued this art, and would give, even in his old age,
an example how they should proceed in their youth. Several heads,
therefore, of Piazetta, from his well-known sheets in small octavo,
he copied with an English lead-pencil upon the finest Dutch paper.
In these he not only observed the greatest clearness of outline, but
most accurately imitated the hatching of the copper-plate with a light
hand--only too slightly, as in his desire to avoid hardness he brought
no keeping into his sketches. Yet they were always soft and accurate.
His unrelaxing and untiring assiduity went so far, that he drew the
whole considerable collection number by number, while we children
jumped from one head to another, and chose only those that pleased us.

About this time the long-debated project, long under consideration,
for giving us lessons in music, was earned into effect; and the last
impulse to it certainly deserves mention. It was settled that we should
learn the harpsichord; but there was always a dispute about the choice
of a master. At last I went once accidentally into the room of one of
my companions, who was just taking his lesson on the harpsichord, and
found the teacher a most charming man. For each finger of the right
and left hand he had a nickname, by which he indicated in the merriest
way when it was to be used. The black and white keys were likewise
symbolically designated, and even the tones appeared under figurative
names. Such a motley company worked most pleasantly together. Fingering
and time seemed to become perfectly easy and obvious, and while the
scholar was put into the best humour, everything else succeeded
beautifully.

[Side-note: The Eccentric Music-master.]

Scarcely had I reached home, than I importuned my parents to set about
the matter in good earnest at last, and give us this incomparable man
for our master on the harpsichord. They hesitated, and made inquiries;
they indeed heard nothing bad of the teacher; but, at the same time,
nothing particularly good. Meanwhile I had informed my sister of all
the droll names; we could hardly wait for the lesson, and succeeded in
having the man engaged.

The reading of the notes began first, but as no jokes occurred
here, we comforted ourselves with the hope that when we went to the
harpsichord, and the fingers were needed, the jocular method would
commence. But neither keys nor fingering seemed to afford opportunity
for any comparisons. Dry as the notes were, with their strokes on and
between the five lines, the black and white keys were no less so:
and not a syllable was heard either of "thumbling," "point-erling,"
or "goldfinger," while the countenance of the man remained as
imperturbable during his dry teaching as it had been before during his
dry jests. My sister reproached me most bitterly for having deceived
her, and actually believed that it was all an invention of mine. But I
was myself confounded and learned little, though the man at once went
regularly enough to work; for I kept always expecting that the former
jokes would make their appearance, and so consoled my sister from one
day to another. They did not reappear, however, and I should never have
been able to explain the riddle if another accident had not solved it
for me.

One of my companions came in during a lesson, and at once all the
pipes of the humorous _jet d'eau_ were opened; the "thumblings" and
"pointerlings," the "pickers" and "stealers," as he used to call
the fingers, the "falings" and "galings," meaning "f" and "g," the
"fielings" and "gielings," meaning "f" and "g" sharp,[1] became once
more extant, and made the most wonderful mannikins. My young friend
could not leave off laughing, and was rejoiced that one could learn in
such a merry manner. He vowed that he would give his parents no peace
until they had given him such an excellent man for a teacher.

And thus the way to two arts was early enough opened to me, according
to the principles of a modern theory of education, merely by good
luck, and without any conviction that I should be furthered therein
by a native talent. My father maintained that everybody ought to
learn drawing; for which reason, he especially venerated the Emperor
Maximilian, by whom this had been expressly commanded. He therefore
held me to it more steadily than to music, which, on the other hand,
he especially recommended to my sister, and even out of the hours
for lessons kept her fast, during a good part of the day, at her
harpsichord.

But the more I was in this way made to press on, the more I wished
to press forward of myself, and my hours of leisure were employed in
all sorts of curious occupations. From my earliest years I felt a
love for the investigation of natural things. It is often regarded
as an instinct of cruelty that children like at last to break, tear,
and devour objects with which for a long time they have played, and
which they have handled in various manners. Yet even in this way is
manifested the curiosity, the desire of learning how such things hang
together, how they look within. I remember that as a child, I pulled
flowers to pieces to see how the leaves were inserted into the calyx,
or even plucked birds to observe how the feathers were inserted into
the wings. Children are not to be blamed for this, when even our
naturalists believe they get their knowledge oftener by separation and
division than by union and combination,--more by killing than by making
alive.

An armed loadstone, very neatly sewed up in scarlet cloth, was one day
destined to experience the effects of this spirit of inquiry. For the
secret force of attraction which it exercised not only on the little
iron bar attached to it, but which was of such a kind that it could
gain strength and could daily bear a heavier weight--this mysterious
virtue had so excited my admiration, that for a long time I was pleased
with merely staring at its operation. But at last I thought I might
arrive at some nearer revelation by tearing away the external covering.
This was done, but I became no wiser in consequence, as the naked iron
taught me nothing further. This also I took off, and I held in my hand
the mere stone, with which I never grew weary of making experiments
of various kinds on filings and needles--experiments from which my
youthful mind drew no further advantage beyond that of a varied
experience. I could not manage to reconstruct the whole arrangement;
the parts were scattered, and I lost the wondrous phenomenon at the
same time with the apparatus.

Nor was I more fortunate in putting together an electrical machine.
A friend of the family, whose youth had fallen in the time when
electricity occupied all minds, often told us how as a child he had
desired to possess such a machine, had got together the principal
requisites, and by the aid of an old spinning-wheel and some medicine
bottles, had produced tolerable results. As he readily and frequently
repeated the story, and imparted to us some general information on
electricity, we children found the thing very plausible, and long
tormented ourselves with an old spinning-wheel and some medicine
bottles, without producing even the smallest result. We nevertheless
adhered to our belief, and were much delighted when at the time of
the fair, among other rarities, magical and legerdemain tricks,
an electrical machine performed its marvels, which, like those of
magnetism, were at that time already very numerous.

The want of confidence in the public method of instruction was daily
increasing. People looked about for private tutors, and because single
families could not afford the expense, several of them united to attain
their object. Yet the children seldom agreed, the young man had not
sufficient authority, and after frequently repeated vexations, there
were only angry partings. It is not surprising, therefore, that other
arrangements were thought of which should be more permanent as well as
more advantageous.

[Side-note: Pfeil's Boarding-School.]

The thought of establishing boarding-schools (_Pensionen_) had
arisen from the necessity which every one felt for having the French
language taught and communicated orally. My father had brought up
a young person who had been his footman, valet, secretary, and in
short successively all in all. This man, whose name was Pfeil, spoke
French well. After he had married, and his patrons had to think of a
situation for him, they hit upon the plan of making him establish a
boarding-school, which extended gradually into a small academy, in
which everything necessary, and at last even Greek and Latin, were
taught. The extensive connexions of Frankfort caused young French and
English men to be brought to this establishment, that they might learn
German and be otherwise cultivated. Pfeil, who was a man in the prime
of life, and of the most wonderful energy and activity, superintended
the whole very laudably, and as he could never be employed enough, and
was obliged to keep music-teachers for his scholars, he set about music
on the occasion, and practised the harpsichord with such zeal that,
without having previously touched a note, he very soon played with
perfect readiness and spirit. He seemed to have adopted my father's
maxim, that nothing can more cheer and excite young people, than when
at mature years one declares one's self again a learner, and at an age
when new accomplishments are acquired with difficulty, one endeavours,
nevertheless, by zeal and perseverance, to excel the younger, who are
more favoured by nature.

By this love of harpsichord-playing Pfeil was led to the instruments
themselves, and while he hoped to obtain the best, came into connexion
with Frederici of Gera, whose instruments were celebrated far and wide.
He took a number of them on sale, and had now the joy of seeing not
only one piano, but many, set up in his residence, and of practising
and being heard upon them.

The vivacity of this man brought a great rage for music into our house.
My father remained on lasting good terms with him up to certain points
of dispute. A large piano of Frederici was purchased also for us,
which I, adhering to my harpsichord, hardly touched, but which so much
increased the troubles of my sister, as, to do proper honour to the new
instrument, she had to spend some time longer every day in practice;
while my father as overseer, and Pfeil as a model and encouraging
friend, alternately took their positions at her side.

A singular taste of my father caused much inconvenience to us
children. This was the cultivation of silk, of the advantages of which,
when it should be more widely extended, he had a high opinion. Some
acquaintances at Hanau, where the breeding of the worms was carried
on with great care, gave him the immediate impulse. At the proper
season, the eggs were sent to him from that place, and as soon as the
mulberry-trees showed sufficient leaves, they had to be stripped, and
the scarcely visible creatures were most diligently tended. Tables and
stands, with boards, were set up in a garret chamber, to afford them
more room and sustenance; for they grew rapidly, and after their last
change of skin were so voracious, that it was scarcely possible to get
leaves enough to feed them; nay, they had to be fed day and night, as
everything depends upon there being no deficiency of nourishment when
the great and wondrous change is about to take place in them. If the
weather was favourable, this business might indeed be regarded as a
pleasant amusement; but if the cold set in, so that the mulberry-trees
suffered, it was exceedingly troublesome. Still more unpleasant was it
when rain fell during the last epoch, for these creatures cannot at
all endure moisture, and the wet leaves had to be carefully wiped and
dried, which could not always be done quite perfectly; and for this, or
perhaps some other reason also, various diseases came among the flock,
by which the poor things were swept off in thousands. The corruption
which ensued produced a smell really pestilential, and because the dead
and diseased had to be taken away and separated from the healthy, the
business was indeed extremely wearisome and repulsive, and caused many
an unhappy hour to us children.

After we had one year passed the finest weeks of the spring and summer
in tending the silk-worms, we were obliged to assist our father in
another business, which, though simpler, was no less troublesome. The
Roman views, which, bound by black rods at the top and bottom, had
hung for many years on the walls of the old house, had become very
yellow, through the light, dust, and smoke, and not a little unsightly
through the flies. If such uncleanliness was not to be tolerated in the
new house, yet, on the other hand, these pictures had gained in value
to my father, in consequence of his longer absence from the places
represented. For in the outset such copies only serve to refresh and
vivify the impressions shortly before received. They seem trifling
in comparison, and at the best only a melancholy substitute. But as
the remembrance of the original forms fades more and more, the copies
imperceptibly assume their place, they become as dear to us as those
once were, and what we at first contemned, now gains esteem and
affection. Thus it is with all copies, and particularly with portraits.
No one is easily satisfied with the counterfeit of an object still
present, but how we value every _silhouette_ of one who is absent or
departed.

In short, with this feeling of his former extravagance, my father
wished that these engravings might be restored as much as possible.
It was well known that this could be done by bleaching; and the
operation, always critical with large plates; was undertaken under
rather unfavourable circumstances. For the large boards on which the
smoked engravings were moistened and exposed to the sun, stood in the
gutters before the garret windows, leaning against the roof, and were
therefore liable to many accidents. The chief point was, that the paper
should never thoroughly dry, but must be kept constantly moist. This
was the duty of my sister and myself; and the idleness, which would
have been otherwise so desirable, was excessively annoying, on account
of the tedium and impatience, and the watchfulness which allowed of no
distraction. The end, however, was attained, and the bookbinder who
fixed each sheet upon thick paper, did his best to match and repair the
margins, which had been here and there torn by our inadvertence. All
the sheets together were bound in a volume, and for this time preserved.

[Side-note: Lessons in English.]

That we children might not be wanting in every variety of life and
learning, a teacher of the English language must announce himself just
at this time, who pledged himself to teach English to anybody not
entirely raw in languages, within four weeks; and to advance him to
such a degree that, with some diligence, he could help himself further.
His price was moderate, and he was indifferent as to the number of
scholars at one lesson. My father instantly determined to make the
attempt, and took lessons, in connexion with my sister and myself, from
this expeditious master. The hours were faithfully kept; there was no
want of repeating our lessons; other exercises were neglected rather
than this, during the four weeks; and the teacher parted from us, and
we from him, with satisfaction. As he remained longer in the town,
and found many employers, he came from time to time to look after us
and to help us, grateful that we had been among the first who placed
confidence in him, and proud to be able to cite us as examples to the
others.

My father, in consequence of this, entertained a new anxiety that
English might neatly stand in the series of my other studies in
languages. Now, I will confess that it became more and more burdensome
for me to take my occasions for study now from this grammar or
collection of examples, now from that; now from one author, now from
another, and thus to divert my interest in a subject every hour. It
occurred to me, therefore, that I might despatch all at once, and I
invented a romance of six or seven brothers and sisters, who, separated
from each other and scattered over the world, should communicate with
each other alternately as to their conditions and feelings. The eldest
brother gives an account in good German of all the manifold objects and
incidents of his journey. The sister, in a ladylike style, with short
sentences and nothing but stops, much as _Siegwart_ was afterwards
written, answers now him, now the other brothers, partly about domestic
matters, and partly about affairs of the heart. One brother studies
theology, and writes a very formal Latin, to which he often adds a
Greek postscript. To another brother, holding the place of mercantile
clerk at Hamburgh, the English correspondence naturally falls, while
a still younger one at Marseilles has the French. For the Italian was
found a musician, on his first trip into the world; while the youngest
of all, a sort of pert nestling, had applied himself to Jew-German,
the other languages having been cut off from him, and by means of his
frightful cyphers brought the rest of them into despair, and my parents
into a hearty laugh at the good notion.

I sought for matter to fill up this singular form by studying the
geography of the countries in which my creations resided, and by
inventing for those dry localities all sorts of human incidents, which
had some affinity with the characters and employments of my heroes.
Thus my exercise-books became much more voluminous, my father was
better satisfied, and I was much sooner made aware of the acquirements
and the sort of readiness in which I was wanting.

Now, as such things once begun have no end and no limits, so it
happened in the present case; for, while I strove to attain the
odd Jew-German, and to write it as well as I could read it, I soon
discovered that I ought to know Hebrew, from which alone the modern
corrupted dialect could be derived and handled with any certainty.
I consequently explained the necessity of my learning Hebrew to my
father, and earnestly besought his consent, for I had a still higher
object. Everywhere I heard it said that to understand the Old as well
as the New Testament, the original languages were requisite. The latter
I could read quite easily, because, that there might be no want of
exercise even on Sundays, the so-called Epistles and Gospels had, after
church, to be recited, translated, and in some measure explained. I now
designed doing the same thing with the Old Testament, the peculiarities
of which had always especially interested me.

[Side-note: Rector Albrecht.]

My father, who did not like to do anything by halves, determined to
request the rector of our Gymnasium, one Dr. ALBRECHT, to give me
private lessons weekly, until I should have acquired what was most
essential in so simple a language, for he hoped that if it would not be
despatched as soon as English was learned, it could at least be managed
in double the time.

Rector Albrecht was one of the most original figures in the world,
short, broad, but not fat, ill-shaped without being deformed,--in
short, an Æsop in gown and wig. His more than seventy-years-old face
was completely twisted into a sarcastic smile, while his eyes always
remained large, and, though red, were always brilliant and intelligent.
He lived in the old cloister of the Barefoot Friars, the seat of the
Gymnasium. Even as a child, I had often visited him in company with
my parents, and had, with a kind of trembling delight, glided through
the long dark passages, the chapels transformed into reception-rooms,
the place broken up and full of stairs and corners. Without annoying
me, he questioned me familiarly whenever we met, and praised and
encouraged me. One day, on the changing of the pupil's places after a
public examination, he saw me standing as a mere spectator, not far
from his chair, while he distributed the silver _præmia virtutis et
diligentia._ I was probably gazing very eagerly upon the little bag out
of which he drew the medals; he nodded to me, descended a step, and
handed me one of the silver pieces. My joy was great, although others
thought that this gift bestowed upon a boy not belonging to the school
was out of all order. But for this the good old man cared but little,
having always played the eccentric, and that in a striking manner.
He had a very good reputation as a schoolmaster, and understood his
business, although age no more allowed him to practise it thoroughly.
But almost more than by his own infirmities was he hindered by greater
circumstances, and, as I already knew, he was satisfied neither with
the consistory, the inspectors, the clergy, nor the teachers. To his
natural temperament, which inclined to satire, and the watching for
faults and defects, he allowed free play, both in his programs and
his public speeches, and as Lucian was almost the only writer whom he
read and esteemed, he spiced all that he said and wrote with biting
ingredients.

Fortunately for those with whom he was dissatisfied, he never went
directly to work, but only jeered at the defects which he wanted to
reprove, with hints, allusions, classic passages, and Scripture texts.
His delivery, moreover--he always read his discourses--was unpleasant,
unintelligible, and, above all, was often interrupted by a cough, but
more frequently by a hollow paunch-convulsing laugh, with which he
was wont to announce and accompany the biting passages. This singular
man I found to be mild and obliging when I began to take lessons from
him. I now went to him daily at six o'clock in the evening, and always
experienced a secret pleasure when the outer door closed behind me, and
I had to thread the long dark cloister-passage. We sat in his library
at a table covered with oil-cloth, a much-read Lucian never quitting
his side.

[Side-note: Hebrew Studies.]

In spite of all my willingness, I did not get at the matter without
difficulty, for my teacher could not suppress certain sarcastic remarks
as to the real truth about Hebrew. I concealed from him my designs
upon Jew-German, and spoke of a better understanding of the original
text. He smiled at this, and said I should be satisfied if I only
learned to read. This vexed me in secret, and I concentrated all my
attention when we came to the letters. I found an alphabet something
like the Greek, of which the forms were easy, and the names, for the
most part, not strange to me. All this I had soon comprehended and
retained, and supposed we should now go to reading. That this was done
from right to left I was well aware. But now, all at once appeared a
new army of little characters and signs, of points and strokes of all
sorts, which were in fact to represent vowels. At this I wondered the
more, as there were manifestly vowels in the larger alphabet, and the
others only appeared to be hidden under strange appellations. It was
also taught, that the Jewish nation, so long as it flourished, actually
were satisfied with the first signs, and knew no other way to write
and read. Most willingly then would I have gone on along this ancient,
and, as it seemed to me, easier path; but my worthy declared rather
sternly, that we must go by the grammar as it had been approved and
composed. Reading without these points and strokes, he said, was a
very hard undertaking, and could be accomplished only by the learned,
and those who were well practised. I must therefore make up my mind to
learn these little characters; but the matter became to me more and
more confused. Now, it seemed, some of the first and larger primitive
letters had no value in their places, in order that their little
after-born kindred might not stand there in vain. Now they indicated
a gentle breathing, now a guttural more or less rough, and now served
as mere equivalents. But, finally, when one fancied that one had well
noted everything, some of these personages, both great and small, were
rendered inoperative, so that the eyes always had very much, and the
lips very little to do.

As that of which I already knew the contents had now to be stuttered
in a strange gibberish, in which a certain snuffle and gargle were
not a little commended as something unattainable, I in a certain
degree deviated from the matter, and diverted myself in a childish
way with the singular names of these accumulated signs. There were
"emperors," "kings," and "dukes,"[2] which, as accents, governing here
and there, gave me not a little entertainment. But even these shallow
jests soon lost their charm. Nevertheless, I was indemnified, inasmuch
as by reading, translating, repeating, and committing to memory,
the substance of the book came out more vividly, and it was this,
properly, about which I desired to be enlightened. Even before this
time the contradiction between tradition and the actual and possible
had appeared to me very striking, and I had often put my private tutors
to a non-plus with the sun which stood still on Gibeon, and the moon
in the vale of Ajalon, to say nothing of other improbabilities and
incongruities. Everything of this kind was now awakened, while, in
order to master the Hebrew, I occupied myself exclusively with the Old
Testament, and studied it, though no longer in Luther's translation,
but in the literal version of Sebastian Schmid, printed under the
text which my father had procured for me. Here, unfortunately, our
lessons began to be defective, so far as practice in the language
was concerned. Reading, interpreting, grammar, transcribing, and the
repetition of words, seldom lasted a full half hour; for I immediately
began to aim at the sense of the matter, and, though we were still
engaged in the first book of Moses, to utter several things suggested
to me by the later books. At first the good old man tried to restrain
me from such digressions, but at last they seemed to entertain him
also. It was impossible for him to suppress his characteristic
cough and chuckle, and although he carefully avoided giving me any
information that might have compromised himself, my importunity was
not relaxed; nay, as I cared more to set forth my doubts than to learn
their solution, I grew constantly more vivacious and bold, seeming
justified by his deportment. Yet I could get nothing out of him, except
that ever and anon he would exclaim, with his peculiar shaking laugh,
"Ah! mad fellow! ah! mad boy!"

Still, my childish vivacity, which scrutinized the Bible on all
sides, may have seemed to him tolerably serious and worthy of some
assistance. He therefore referred me, after a time, to the large
English Biblical work which stood in his library, and in which the
interpretation of difficult and doubtful passages was attempted in
an intelligent and judicious manner. By the great labours of German
divines the translation had obtained advantages over the original. The
different opinions were cited, and at last a kind of reconciliation was
attempted, so that the dignity of the book, the ground of religion, and
the human understanding might in some degree co-exist. Now, is often
as towards the end of the lesson I came out with my usual questions
and doubts, so often did be point to the repository. I took the volume,
he let me read, turned over his Lucian, and when I made any remarks on
the book, his ordinary laugh was the only answer to my sagacity. In
the long summer days he let me sit as long as I could read, many times
alone; after a time he suffered me to take one volume after another
home with me.

[Side-note: The Old Testament.]

A man may turn whither he pleases, and undertake anything whatsoever,
but he will always return to the path which nature has once prescribed
for him. Thus it happened also with me in the present case. My trouble
about the language, about the contents of the Sacred Scriptures
themselves, ended at last in producing in my imagination a livelier
picture of that beautiful and famous land, its environs and its
vicinities, as well as of the people and events by which that little
spot of earth was made glorious for thousands of years.

This small space was to see the origin and growth of the human race;
thence we were to derive our first and only accounts of primitive
history; and such a locality was to lie before our imagination, no less
simple and comprehensible than varied and adapted to the most wonderful
migrations and settlements. Here, between four designated rivers, a
small delightful spot was separated from the whole habitable earth,
for youthful man. Here he was to unfold his first capacities, and
here at the same time was the lot to befall him, which was appointed
for all his posterity, namely, that of losing peace by striving after
knowledge. Paradise was trifled away; men increased and grew worse;
and the Elohim, not yet accustomed to the wickedness of the new race,
became impatient and utterly destroyed it. Only a few were saved from
the universal deluge; and scarcely had this dreadful flood ceased, than
the well known ancestral soil lay once more before the grateful eyes of
the preserved.

Two rivers out of four, the Euphrates and Tigris, still flowed in their
beds. The name of the first remained; the other seemed to be pointed
out by its course. Minuter traces of Paradise were not to be looked for
after so great a revolution. The renewed race of man went forth from
hence a second time; it found occasion to sustain and employ itself in
all sorts of ways, but chiefly to gather around it large herds of tame
animals and to wander with them in every direction.

This mode of life, as well as the increase of the families, soon
compelled the people to disperse. They could not at once resolve
to let their relatives and friends go for ever; they hit upon the
thought of building a lofty tower which should show them the way back
from the far distance. But this attempt, like their first endeavour,
miscarried. They could not be at the same time happy and wise, numerous
and united. The Elohim confounded their minds--the building remained
unfinished--the men were dispersed--the world was peopled, but sundered.

But our regards, our interests, are still fastened to these regions.
At last the founder of a race again goes forth from hence, and is so
fortunate as to stamp a distinct character upon his descendants, and
by that means to unite them for all time to come into a great nation,
inseparable through all changes of place or destiny.

[Side-note: The Old Testament.]

From the Euphrates, Abraham, not without divine guidance, wanders
towards the west. The desert opposes no invincible barrier to his
march. He attains the Jordan, passes over its waters, and spreads
himself over the fair southern regions of Palestine. This land was
already occupied, and tolerably inhabited. Mountains, not extremely
high, but rocky and barren, were severed by many watered vales
favourable to cultivation. Towns, villages, and solitary settlements
lay scattered over the plain and on the slopes of the great valley, the
waters of which are collected in Jordan. Thus inhabited, thus tilled
was the land; but the world was still large enough, and the men were
not so circumspect, necessitous, and active, as to usurp at once the
whole adjacent country. Between their possessions were extended large
spaces, in which grazing herds could freely move in every direction.
In one of these spaces Abraham resides; his brother Lot is near him;
but they cannot long remain in such places. The very condition of a
land, the population of which is now increasing, now decreasing, and
the productions of which are never kept in equilibrium with the wants,
produces unexpectedly a famine, and the stranger suffers alike with the
native, whose own support he has rendered difficult by his accidental
presence. The two Chaldean brothers move onward to Egypt, and thus is
traced out for us the theatre on which, for some thousands of years,
the most important events of the world were to be enacted. From the
Tigris to the Euphrates, from the Euphrates to the Nile, we see the
earth peopled; and this space also is traversed by a well-known,
heaven-beloved man, who has already become worthy to us, moving to
and fro with his goods and cattle, and, in a short time, abundantly
increasing them. The brothers return; but, taught by the distress they
have endured, they determine to part. Both, indeed, tarry in Southern
Canaan; but while Abraham remains at Hebron, near the wood of Mamre,
Lot departs for the valley of Siddim, which, if our imagination is bold
enough to give Jordan a subterranean outlet, so that in place of the
present Dead Sea we should have dry ground, can and must appear like
a second Paradise; a conjecture all the more probable, because the
residents about there, notorious for effeminacy and wickedness, lead
us to infer that they led an easy and luxurious life. Lot lives among
them, but apart.

But Hebron and the wood of Mamre appear to us as the important
place where the Lord speaks with Abraham, and promises him all the
land as far as his eye can reach in four directions. From these
quiet districts, from these shepherd tribes, who can associate with
celestials, entertain them as guests, and hold many conversations with
them, we are compelled to turn our glance once more towards the East,
and to think of the condition of the surrounding world, which on the
whole, perhaps, may have been like that of Canaan.

Families hold together: they unite, and the mode of life of the
tribes is determined by the locality which they have appropriated or
appropriate. On the mountains which send down their waters to the
Tigris, we find warlike populations, who even thus early foreshadow
those world-conquerors and world-rulers--and in a campaign, prodigious
for those times, give us a prelude of future achievements. Chedor
Laomer, king of Elam, has already a mighty influence over his allies.
He reigns a long while; for twelve years before Abraham's arrival in
Canaan, he had made all the people tributary to him as far as the
Jordan. They revolted at last, and the allies equipped for war. We
find them unawares upon a route by which probably Abraham also reached
Canaan. The people on the left and lower side of the Jordan were
subdued. Chedor Laomer directs his march southwards towards the people
of the Desert, then wending north, he smites the Amalekites, and when
he has also overcome the Amorites, he reaches Canaan, falls upon the
kings of the valley of Siddim, smites and scatters them, and marches
with great spoil up the Jordan, in order to extend his conquests as far
as Lebanon.

Among the captives, despoiled and dragged along with their property,
is Lot, who shares the fate of the country in which he lives a guest.
Abraham learns this, and here at once we behold the patriarch a warrior
and hero. He gathers together his servants, divides them into troops,
attacks and falls upon the luggage of booty, confuses the victors,
who could not suspect another enemy in the rear, and brings back
his brother and his goods, with a great deal more belonging to the
conquered kings. Abraham, by means of this brief contest, acquires, as
it were, the whole land. To the inhabitants he appears as a protector,
saviour, and, by his disinterestedness, a king. Gratefully the kings
of the valley receive him:--Melchisedek, the king and priest, with
blessings.

Now the prophecies of an endless posterity are renewed, nay, they
take a wider and wider scope. From the waters of the Euphrates to the
river of Egypt all the lands are promised him; but yet there seems a
difficulty with respect to his next heirs. He is eighty years of age,
and has no son. Sarai, less trusting in the heavenly powers than he,
becomes impatient; she desires, after the oriental fashion, to have a
descendant by means of her maid. But scarcely is Hagar given up to the
master of the house, scarcely is there hope of a son, than dissensions
arise. The wife treats her own dependent ill enough, and Hagar flies to
seek a happier position among other tribes. She returns, not without a
higher intimation, and Ishmael is born.

Abraham is now ninety-nine years old, and the promises of a numerous
posterity are constantly repeated, so that in the end the pair regard
them as ridiculous. And yet Sarai becomes at last pregnant and brings
forth a son, to whom the name of Isaac is given.

[Side-note: Natural and Revealed Religion.]

History, for the most part, rests upon the legitimate propagation of
the human race. The most important events of the world require to
be traced to the secrets of families: and thus the marriages of the
patriarchs give occasion for peculiar considerations. It is as if
the Divinity, who loves to guide the destiny of mankind, wished to
prefigure here connubial events of every kind. Abraham, so long united
by childless marriage to a beautiful woman whom many coveted, finds
himself, by his hundredth year, the husband of two women, the father of
two sons; and at this moment his domestic peace is broken. Two women,
and two sons by different mothers, cannot possibly agree. The party
less favoured by law, usage, and opinion, must yield. Abraham must
sacrifice his attachment to Hagar and Ishmael. Both are dismissed, and
Hagar is compelled now, against her will, to go upon a road which she
once took in voluntary flight, at first, it seems, to the destruction
of herself and child; but the angel of the Lord, who had before sent
her back, now rescues her again, that Ishmael also may become a great
people, and that the most improbable of all promises may be fulfilled
beyond its limits.

Two parents in advanced years, and one son of their old age--here, at
last, one might expect domestic quiet and earthly happiness. By no
means. Heaven is yet preparing the heaviest trial for the patriarch.
But of this we cannot speak without premising several considerations.

If a natural universal religion was to arise, and a special revealed
one to be developed from it, the countries in which our imagination
has hitherto lingered, the mode of life, the race of men, were the
fittest for the purpose. At least, we do not find in the whole world
anything equally favourable and encouraging. Even to natural religion,
if we assume that it arose earlier in the human mind, there pertains
much of delicacy of sentiment; for it rests upon the conviction of an
universal providence, which conducts the order of the world as a whole.
A particular religion, revealed by Heaven to this or that people,
carries with it the belief in a special providence which the Divine
Being vouchsafes to certain favoured men, families, races, and people.
This faith seems to develope itself with difficulty from man's inward
nature. It requires tradition, usage, and the warrant of a primitive
time.

Beautiful is it, therefore, that the Israelitish tradition represents
the very first men who confide in this particular providence as heroes
of faith, following all the commands of that high Being on whom they
acknowledge themselves dependent, just as blindly as, undisturbed by
doubts, they are unwearied in awaiting the later fulfilments of his
promises.

As a particular revealed religion rests upon the idea that one
man can be more favoured by Heaven than another, so it also arises
pre-eminently from the separation of classes. The first men appeared
closely allied; but their employments soon divided them. The hunter
was the freest of all; from him was developed the warrior and the
ruler. Those who tilled the field bound themselves to the soil, erected
dwellings and barns to preserve what they had gained, and could
estimate themselves pretty highly, because their condition promised
durability and security. The herdsman in his position seemed to have
acquired the most unbounded condition and unlimited property. The
increase of herds proceeded without end, and the space which was to
support them widened itself on all sides. These three classes seemed
from the very first to have regarded each other with dislike and
contempt; and as the herdsman was an abomination to the townsman, so
did he in turn separate from the other. The hunters vanish from our
sight among the hills, and re-appear only as conquerors.

The patriarchs belonged to the shepherd class. Their manner of life
upon the ocean of deserts and pastures, gave breadth and freedom to
their minds; the vault of heaven, under which they dwelt, with all its
nightly stars, elevated their feelings; and they, more than the active,
skilful huntsman, or the secure, careful, householding husbandman, had
need of the immovable faith that a God walked beside them, visited
them, cared for them, guided and saved them.

We are compelled to make another reflection in passing to the rest of
the history. Humane, beautiful, and cheering as the religion of the
patriarchs appears, yet traits of savageness and cruelty run through
it, out of which man may emerge, or into which he may again be sunk.

That hatred should seek to appease itself by the blood, by the death of
the conquered enemy, is natural; that men concluded a peace upon the
battle-field among the ranks of the slain, may easily be conceived;
that they should in like manner think to give validity to a contract
by slain animals, follows from the preceding. The notion also that
slain creatures could attract, propitiate, and gain over the gods, whom
they always looked upon as partisans, either opponents or allies, is
likewise not at all surprising. But if we confine our attention to the
sacrifices, and consider the way in which they were offered in that
primitive time, we find a singular, and, to our notions, altogether
repugnant custom, probably derived from the usages of war, viz., that
the sacrificed animals of every kind, and whatever number was devoted,
had to be hewn in two halves, and laid out on two sides, so that in the
space between them were those who wished to make a covenant with the
Deity.

Another dreadful feature wonderfully and portentously pervades that
fair world, namely, that everything consecrated or vowed must die. This
also was probably an usage of war transferred to peace. The inhabitants
of a city which forcibly defends itself are threatened with such a
vow; it is taken by storm or otherwise. Nothing is left alive;--men
never, and often women, children, and even cattle, share a similar
fate. Such sacrifices are rashly and superstitiously and with more or
less distinctness promised to the gods, and those whom the votary would
willingly spare, even his nearest of kin, his own children, may thus
bleed, the expiatory victims of such a delusion.

[Side-note: The Old Testament.]

In the mild and truly patriarchal character of Abraham, such a savage
kind of worship could not arise; but the Godhead,[3] which often, to
tempt us, seems to put forth those qualities which man is inclined to
assign to it, imposes a monstrous task upon him. He must offer up his
son as a pledge of the new covenant, and, if he follows the usage,
must not only kill and burn him, but cut him in two, and await between
the smoking entrails a new promise from the benignant Deity. Abraham
blindly, and without lingering, prepares to execute the command; to
Heaven the will is sufficient. Abraham's trials are now at an end,
for they could not be carried further. But Sarai dies, and this gives
Abraham an opportunity for taking typical possession of the land of
Canaan. He requires a grave, and this is the first time he looks out
for a possession in this earth. He had before this probably sought
out a two-fold cave by the grove of Mamre. This he purchases with the
adjacent field, and the legal form which he observes on the occasion,
shows how important this possession is to him Indeed it was more so,
perhaps, than he himself supposed; for there he, his sons and his
grandsons, were to rest, and by this means, the proximate title to the
whole land, as well as the everlasting desire of his posterity to
gather themselves there, was most properly grounded.

From this time forth the manifold incidents of the family life become
varied. Abraham still keeps strictly apart from the inhabitants, and
though Ishmael, the son of an Egyptian woman, has married a daughter
of that land, Isaac is obliged to wed a kinswoman of equal birth with
himself.

Abraham despatches his servant to Mesopotamia, to the relatives whom
he had left behind there. The prudent Eleazer arrives unknown, and, in
order to take home the right bride, tries the readiness to serve of
the girls at the well. He asks to drink himself, and Rebecca, unasked,
waters his camels also. He gives her presents, he demands her in
marriage, and his suit is not rejected. He conducts her to the home
of his lord, and she is wedded to Isaac. In this case, too, issue has
to be long expected. Rebecca is not blessed until after some years of
probation, and the same discord which in Abraham's double marriage
arose through two mothers, here proceeds from one. Two boys of opposite
characters wrestle already in their mother's womb. They come to light,
the elder lively and vigorous, the younger gentle and prudent. The
former becomes the father's, the latter the mother's favourite. The
strife for precedence, which begins even at birth, is ever going on.
Esau is quiet and indifferent as to the birthright which fate has given
him; Jacob never forgets that his brother forced him back. Watching
every opportunity of gaining the desirable privilege, he buys the
birthright of his brother, and defrauds him of their father's blessing.
Esau is indignant, and vows his brother's death; Jacob flees to seek
his fortune in the land of his forefathers.

Now, for the first time, in so noble a family appears a member who
has no scruple in attaining by prudence and cunning the advantages
which nature and circumstances have denied him. It has often enough
been remarked and expressed, that the Sacred Scriptures by no means
intend to set up any of the patriarchs and other divinely-favoured
men as models of virtue. They, too, are persons of the most different
characters, with many defects and failings. But there is one leading
trait, in which none of these men after God's own heart can be
wanting--that is, an immovable faith that God has special care of them
and their families.

[Side-note: The Old Testament.]

General, natural religion, properly speaking, requires no faith; for
the persuasion that a great producing, regulating, and conducting
Being conceals himself, as it were, behind Nature, to make himself
comprehensible to us--such a conviction forces itself upon every one.
Nay, if we for a moment let drop this thread, which conducts us through
life, it may be immediately and everywhere resumed. But it is different
with a special religion, which announces to us that this Great Being
distinctly and pre-eminently interests himself for one individual, one
family, one people, one country. This religion is founded on faith,
which must be immovable if it would not be instantly destroyed. Every
doubt of such a religion is fatal to it. One may return to conviction,
but not to faith. Hence the endless probation, the delay in the
fulfilment of so often repeated promises, by which the capacity for
faith in those ancestors is set in the clearest light.

It is in this faith also that Jacob begins his expedition, and if by
his craft and deceit he has not gained our affections, he wins them by
his lasting and inviolable love for Rachel, whom he himself woos on
the instant, as Eleazar had courted Rebecca for his father. In him the
promise of a countless people was first to be fully unfolded; he was
to see many sons around him, but through them and their mothers was to
endure manifold sorrows of heart.

Seven years he serves for his beloved, without impatience and without
wavering. His father-in-law, crafty like himself, and disposed, like
him, to consider legitimate this means to an end, deceives him, and so
repays him for what he has done to his brother. Jacob finds in his arms
a wife whom he does not love. Laban, indeed, endeavours to appease him,
by giving him his beloved also after a short time, and this but on the
condition of seven years of further service. Vexation arises out of
vexation. The wife he does not love is fruitful, the beloved one bears
no children. The latter, like Sarai, desires to become a mother through
her handmaiden; the former grudges her even this advantage. She also
presents her husband with a maid; but the good patriarch is now the
most troubled man in the world--he has four women, children by three,
and none from her he loves. Finally she also is favoured, and Joseph
tomes into the world, the late fruit of the most passionate attachment.
Jacob's fourteen years of service are over, but Laban is unwilling to
part with him, his chief and most trusty servant. They enter into a new
compact, and portion the flocks between them. Laban retains the white
ones as most numerous, Jacob has to put up with the spotted ones, as
the mere refuse. But he is able here too to secure his own advantage;
and as by a paltry mess (_of pottage_) he had procured the birthright,
and by a disguise his father's blessing, he manages by art and sympathy
to appropriate to himself the best and largest part of the herds; and
on this side also he becomes the truly worthy progenitor of the people
of Israel, and a model for his descendants. Laban and his household
remark the result, if not the stratagem. Vexation ensues; Jacob flees
with his family and goods, and partly by fortune, partly by cunning,
escapes the pursuit of Laban. Rachel is now about to present him
another son, but dies in the travail: Benjamin, the child of sorrow,
survives her; but the aged father is to experience a still greater
sorrow from the apparent loss of his son Joseph.

       *       *       *       *       *

Perhaps some one may ask why I have so circumstantially narrated
histories so universally known and so often repeated and explained. Let
the inquirer be satisfied with the answer, that I could in no other
way exhibit, how with my distracted life and desultory education, I
concentrated my mind and feelings in quiet action on one point; that
I was able in no other way to depict the peace that prevailed about
me, even when all without was so wild and strange. If an ever busy
imagination, of which that tale may bear witness, led me hither and
thither, if the medley of fable and history, mythology and religion,
threatened to bewilder me, I readily fled to those oriental regions,
plunged into the first books of Moses, and there, amid the scattered
shepherd-tribes, found myself at once in the greatest solitude and the
greatest society.

[Side-note: History of Joseph.]

These family scenes, before they were to lose themselves in a history
of the Jewish nation, show us now, in conclusion, a form by which the
hopes and fancies of the young in particular are agreeably excited:
Joseph, the child of the most passionate wedded love. He seems to us
tranquil and clear, and predicts to himself the advantages which are to
elevate him above his family. Cast into misfortune by his brothers, he
remains steadfast and upright in slavery, resists the most dangerous
temptations, rescues himself by prophecy, and is elevated according
to his deserts to high honours. He shows himself first serviceable
and useful to a great kingdom, then to his own kindred. He is like
his ancestor Abraham in repose and greatness, his grandfather Isaac
in silence and devotedness. The talent for traffic inherited from his
father he exercises on a large scale. It is no longer flocks which are
gained for himself from a father-in-law, but people, with all their
possessions, which he knows how to purchase for a king. Extremely
graceful is this natural story, only it appears too short, and one
feels called upon to paint it in detail.

Such a filling-up of biblical characters and events given only in
outline, was no longer strange to the Germans. The personages of both
the Old and New Testaments had received through Klopstock a tender and
affectionate nature, highly pleasing to the Boy as well as to many
of his contemporaries. Of Bodmer's efforts in this line little or
nothing came to him; but _Daniel in the Lion's Den_, by Moser, made
a great impression on the young heart. In that work a right-minded
man of business and courtier arrives at high honours through manifold
tribulations, and the piety for which they threatened to destroy him
became early and late his sword and buckler. It had long seemed to
me desirable to work out the history of Joseph, but I could not get
on with the form, particularly as I was conversant with no kind of
versification which would have been adapted to such a work. But now I
found a treatment of it in prose very suitable, and I applied all my
strength to its execution. I now endeavoured to discriminate and paint
the characters, and by the interpolation of incidents and episodes,
to make the old simple history a new and independent work. I did not
consider, what, indeed, youth cannot consider, that subject-matter
was necessary to such a design, and that this could only arise by the
perceptions of experience. Suffice, it to say, that I represented to
myself all the incidents down to the minutest details, and narrated
them accurately to myself in their succession.

What greatly lightened this labour was a circumstance which threatened
to render this work, and my authorship in general, exceedingly
voluminous. A young man of various capacities, but who had become
imbecile from over exertion and conceit, resided as a ward in my
father's house, lived quietly with the family, and if allowed to go
on in his usual way, was contented and agreeable. He had with great
care written out notes of his academical course, and had acquired a
rapid legible hand. He liked to employ himself in writing better than
in anything else, and was pleased when something was given him to
copy; but still more when he was dictated to, because he then felt
carried back to his happy academical years. To my father, who was
not expeditious in writing, and whose German letters were small and
tremulous, nothing could be more desirable, and he was consequently
accustomed, in the conduct of his own and other business, to dictate
for some hours a day to this young man. I found it no less convenient,
during the intervals, to see all that passed through my head fixed
upon paper by the hand of another, and my natural gift of feeling and
imitation grew with the facility of catching up and preserving.

As yet I had not undertaken any work so large as that biblical
prose-epic. The times were tolerably quiet, and nothing recalled my
imagination from Palestine and Egypt. Thus my manuscripts swelled more
and more every day, as the poem, which I recited to myself, as it were,
in the air, stretched along the paper; and only a few pages from time
to time needed to be rewritten.

When the work was done--for to my own astonishment it really came to an
end--I reflected that from former year, many poems were extant, which
did not even now appear to me utterly despicable, and which, if written
together in the same size with JOSEPH, would make a very neat quarto,
to which the title "Miscellaneous Poems" might be given. I was pleased
with this, as it gave me an opportunity of quietly imitating well-known
and celebrated authors. I had composed a good number of so-called
Anacreontic poems, which, on account of the convenience of the metre
and the easiness of the subject, flowed forth readily enough. But these
I could not well take, as they were not in rhyme, and my desire before
all things was to show my father something that would please him. So
much the more, therefore, did the spiritual odes seem suitable, which
I had very zealously attempted in imitation of the _Last Judgment_
of Elias Schlegel. One of these, written to celebrate the descent of
Christ into hell, received much applause from my parents and friends,
and had the good fortune to please myself for some years afterwards.
The so-called texts of the Sunday church-music, which were always to be
had printed, I studied with diligence. They were, indeed, very weak,
and I could well believe that my verses, of which I had composed many
in the prescribed manner, were equally worthy of being set to music,
and performed for the edification of the congregation. These and many
like them I had for more than a year before copied with my own hand,
because through this private exercise I was released from the copies of
the writing-master. Now, all were corrected and put in order, and no
great persuasion was needed to have them neatly copied by the young man
who was so fond of writing. I hastened with them to the bookbinder, and
when very soon after I handed the nice-looking volume to my father, he
encouraged me with peculiar satisfaction to furnish a similar quarto
every year; which he did with the greater conviction, as I had produced
the whole in my spare moments alone.

[Side-note: Plitt's Sermons.]

Another circumstance increased my tendency to these theological, or
rather biblical studies. The senior of the ministry, JOHN PHILIP
FRESENIUS, a mild man, of handsome, agreeable appearance, who was
respected by his congregation and the whole city as an exemplary
pastor and good preacher, but who, because he stood forth against the
Herrnhuters, was not in the best odour with the peculiarly pious;
while, on the other hand, he had made himself famous, and almost
sacred, with the multitude, by the conversion of a free-thinking
General who had been mortally wounded--this man died, and his
successor, Plitt, a tall, handsome, dignified man, who brought from
his _Chair_ (he had been a Professor in Marburg) the gift of teaching
rather than of edifying, immediately announced a sort of religious
course, to which his sermons were to be devoted in a certain methodical
connexion. I had already, as I was compelled to go to church, remarked
the distribution of the subject, and could now and then show myself
off by a pretty complete recitation of a sermon. But now as much was
said in the congregation, both for and against the new senior, and
many placed no great confidence in his announced didactic sermons,
I undertook to write them out more carefully, and I succeeded the
better from having made smaller attempts in a seat very convenient for
hearing, but concealed from sight. I was extremely attentive and on the
alert; the moment he said Amen I hastened from the church and consumed
a couple of hours in rapidly dictating what I had fixed in my memory
and on paper, so that I could hand in the written sermon before dinner.
My father was very proud of this success, and the good friend of the
family, who had just come in to dinner, also shared in the joy. Indeed,
this friend was very well-disposed to me, because I had so made his
_Messiah_ my own, that in my repeated visits to him to get impressions
of seals for my collection of coats-of-arms, I could recite long
passages from it till the tears stood in his eyes.

The next Sunday I prosecuted the work with equal zeal, and as the
mechanical part of it mainly interested me, I did not reflect upon
what I wrote and preserved. During the first quarter these efforts
may have continued pretty much the same; but as I fancied at last,
in my self-conceit, that I found no particular enlightenment as to
the Bible, nor clearer insight into dogmas, the small vanity which
was thus gratified seemed to me too dearly purchased for me to pursue
the matter with the same zeal. The sermons, once so many-leaved, grew
more and more meagre; and before long I should have relinquished this
labour altogether, if my father, who was a fast friend to completeness,
had not, by words and promises, induced me to persevere till the last
Sunday in Trinity--though, at the conclusion, scarcely more than the
text, the statement, and the divisions were scribbled on little pieces
of paper.

My father was particularly pertinacious on this point of completeness.
What was once undertaken must be finished, even if the inconvenience,
tedium, vexation, nay, uselessness of the thing begun were plainly
manifested in the meantime. It seemed as if he regarded completeness
as the only end, and perseverance as the only virtue. If in our family
circle, in the long winter evenings, we had begun to read a book aloud,
we were compelled to finish, though we were all in despair about it,
and my father himself was the first to yawn. I still remember such a
winter when we had thus to work our way through Bower's _History of
the Popes._ It was a terrible time, as little or nothing that occurs
in ecclesiastical affairs can interest children and young people.
Still, with all my inattention and repugnance, so much of that reading
remained in my mind that I was able, in after times, to take up many
threads of the narrative.

[Side-note: Lessons in Fencing.]

Amid all these heterogeneous occupations and labours, which followed
each other so rapidly that one could hardly reflect whether they
were permissible and useful, my father did not lose sight of the
main object. He endeavoured to direct my memory and my talent for
apprehending and combining to objects of jurisprudence, and therefore
gave me a small book by Hopp, in the shape of a catechism, and worked
up according to the form and substance of the Institutions. I soon
learned questions and answers by heart, and could represent the
catechist as well as the catechumen; and, as in religious instruction
at that time, one of the chief exercises was to find passages in the
Bible as readily as possible, so here a similar acquaintance with the
_Corpus Juris_ was found necessary, in which, also, I soon became
completely versed. My father wished me to go on, and the little STRUVE
was taken in hand; but here affairs did not proceed so rapidly. The
form of the work was not so favourable for beginners, that they could
help themselves on, nor was my father's method of illustration so
liberal as greatly to interest me.

Not only by the warlike state in which we lived for some years, but
also by civil life itself, and the perusal of history and romances, was
it made clear to me that there were many cases in which the laws are
silent and give no help to the individual, who must then see how to get
out of the difficulty by himself. We had now reached the period when,
according to the old routine, we were, besides other things, to learn
to fence and ride, that we might guard our skins upon occasion, and
have no pedantic appearance on horseback. As to the first, the practice
was very agreeable to us; for we had already, long ago, contrived to
make broad-swords out of hazel-sticks, with basket-hilts, neatly woven
of willow, to protect the hands. Now we might get real steel blades,
and the clash we made with them was very merry.

There were two fencing-masters in the city: an old earnest German,
who went to work in a severe and solid style, and a Frenchman, who
sought to gain his advantage by advancing and retreating, and by light
fugitive thrusts, which he always accompanied by cries. Opinions varied
as to whose manner was the best. The little company with which I was
to take lessons sided with the Frenchman, and we speedily accustomed
ourselves to move backwards and forwards, make passes and recover,
always breaking out into the usual exclamations. But several of our
acquaintance bad gone to the German teacher, and practised precisely
the opposite. These distinct modes of treating so important an
exercise, the conviction of each that his master was the best, really
caused a dissension among the young people, who were of about the same
age, and the fencing-schools occasioned serious battles,--for there
was almost as much fighting with words as with swords; and to decide
the matter in the end, a trial of skill between the two teachers
was arranged, the consequences of which I need not circumstantially
describe. The German stood in his position like a wall, watched his
opportunity, and contrived to disarm his opponent over and over again
with his cut and thrust. The latter maintained that this mattered not,
and proceeded to exhaust the other's wind by his agility. He fetched
the German several lunges, too, which, however, if they had been in
earnest, would have sent himself into the next world.

On the whole, nothing was decided or improved, except that some went
over to our countryman, of whom I was one. But I had already acquired
too much from the first master; and hence a considerable time elapsed
before the new one could break me of it, who was altogether less
satisfied with us renegades than with his original pupils.

As to riding, it fared still worse with me. It happened that they
sent me to the course in the autumn, so that I commenced in the
cool and damp season. The pedantic treatment of this noble art was
highly repugnant to me. From first to last the whole talk was about
sitting the horse, and yet no one could say in what a proper sitting
consisted, though all depended on that; for they went to and fro on
the horse-without stirrups. Moreover, the instruction seemed contrived
only for cheating and degrading the scholars. If one forgot to hook
or loosen the curb-chain, or let his switch fall down, or even his
hat,--every delay, every misfortune, had to be atoned for by money,
and one was even laughed at besides. This put me in the worst of
humours, particularly when I found the place of exercise itself quite
intolerable. The great nasty space, either wet or dusty, the cold, the
mouldy smell, all together was in the highest degree repugnant to me;
and since the stable-master always gave the others the best and me the
worst horses to ride, perhaps because they bribed him by breakfasts
and other gifts, or even by their own cleverness; since he kept me
waiting, and, as it seemed, slighted me, I spent the most disagreeable
hours in an employment that ought to have been the most pleasant in
the world. Nay, the impression of that time and of these circumstances
has remained with me so vividly, that although I afterwards became a
passionate and daring rider, and for days and weeks together scarcely
got off my horse, I carefully shunned covered riding-courses, and
at least passed only a few moments in them. The case often happens
that when the elements of an exclusive art are taught us, this is
done in a painful and revolting manner. The conviction that this is
both wearisome and injurious, has given rise in later times to the
educational maxim, that the young must be taught everything in an easy,
cheerful, and agreeable way: from which, however, other evils and
disadvantages have proceeded.

With the approach of spring, times became again more quiet with us, and
if in earlier days I had endeavoured to obtain a sight of the city, its
ecclesiastical, civil, public and private structures, and especially
found great delight in the still prevailing antiquities, I afterwards
endeavoured, by means of Lersner's _Chronicle_, and other Frankfortian
books and pamphlets belonging to my father, to revive the persons of
past times. This seemed to me to be well attained by great attention
to the peculiarities of times and manners, and of distinguished
individuals.

[Side-note: The Rebel Fettmilch.]

Among the ancient remains, that which, from my childhood, had been
remarkable to me, was the skull of a state criminal, fastened up on
the tower of the bridge, who, out of three or four, as the naked
iron spikes showed, had, since 1616, been preserved in spite of
the encroachments of time and weather. Whenever one returned from
Sachsenhausen to Frankfort, one had this tower before one, and the
skull was directly in view. As a boy, I liked to hear related the
history of these rebels--Fettmilch and his confederates--how they had
become dissatisfied with the government of the city, had risen up
against it, plotted a mutiny, plundered the Jews' quarter, and excited
a fearful riot, but were at last captured, and condemned to death by
a deputy of the emperor. Afterwards I felt anxious to know the most
minute circumstance, and to hear what sort of people they were. When
from an old contemporary book, ornamented with woodcuts, I learned that
while these men had indeed been condemned to death, many councillors
had at the same time been deposed, because various kinds of disorder
and very much that was unwarrantable was then going on; when I heard
the nearer particulars now all took place, I pitied the unfortunate
persons who might be regarded as sacrifices made for a future better
constitution. For from that time was dated the regulation which allows
the noble old house of Limpurg, the Frauenstein-house, sprung from a
club, besides lawyers, tradespeople, and artisans, to take a part in a
government, which, completed by a system of ballot, complicated in the
Venetian fashion, and restricted by the civil colleges, was called to
do right, without acquiring any special privilege to do wrong.

Among the things which excited the misgivings of the Boy, and even of
the youth, was especially the state of the Jewish quarter of the city
(_Judenstadt_), properly called the Jew-street (_Judengasse_), as it
consisted of little more than a single street, which in early times may
have been hemmed in between the walls and trenches of the town, as in a
prison (_Zwinger._) The closeness, the filth, the crowd, the accent of
an unpleasant language, altogether made a most disagreeable impression,
even if one only looked in as one passed the gate. It was long before I
ventured in alone, and I did not return there readily, when I had once
escaped the importunities of so many men unwearied in demanding and
offering to traffic. At the same time the old legends of the cruelty
of the Jews towards Christian children, which we had seen hideously
illustrated in Gottfried's _Chronicle_, hovered gloomily before my
young mind. And although they were thought better of in modern times,
the large caricature, still to be seen, to their disgrace, on an arched
wall under the bridge tower, bore extraordinary witness against them;
for it had been made, not through private ill-will, but by public order.

However, they still remained, nevertheless, the chosen people of God,
and passed, no matter how it came about, as a memorial of the most
ancient times. Besides, they also were men, active and obliging, and
even to the tenacity with which they clung to their peculiar customs,
one could not refuse one's respect. The girls, moreover, were pretty,
and were far from displeased when a Christian lad, meeting them on
the sabbath in the Fischerfeld, showed himself kindly and attentive.
I was consequently extremely curious to become acquainted with their
ceremonies. I did not desist until I had frequently visited their
school, had assisted at a circumcision and a wedding, and had formed
a notion of the Feast of the Tabernacles. Everywhere I was well
received, pleasantly entertained, and invited to come again; for they
were persons of influence by whom I had been either introduced or
recommended.

[Side-note: Public Burning of a Book.]

Thus, as a young resident in a large city, I was thrown about from one
object to another, and horrible scenes were not wanting in the midst of
the municipal quiet and security. Sometimes a more or less remote fire
aroused us from our domestic peace, sometimes the discovery of a great
crime, with its investigation and punishment, set the whole city in
an uproar for many weeks. We were forced to be witnesses of different
executions; and it is worth remembering, that I was also once present
at the burning of a book. The publication was a French comic romance,
which indeed spared the state, but not religion and manners. There was
really something dreadful in seeing punishment inflicted on a lifeless
thing. The packages burst asunder in the fire, and were raked apart
by an oven-fork, to be brought in closer contact with the flames. It
was not long before the kindled sheets were wafted about in the air,
and the crowd caught at them with eagerness. Nor could we rest until
we had hunted up a copy, while not a few managed likewise to procure
the forbidden pleasure. Nay, if it had been done to give the author
publicity, he could not himself have made a more effectual provision.

But there were also more peaceable inducements which took me about in
every part of the city. My father had early accustomed me to manage for
him his little affairs of business. He charged me particularly to stir
up the labourers whom he set to work, as they commonly kept him waiting
longer than was proper; because he wished everything done accurately,
and was used in the end to lower the price for a prompt payment. In
this way, I gained access to all the workshops; and as it was natural
to me to enter into the condition of others, to feel every species of
human existence, and sympathize in it with pleasure, these commissions
were to me the occasion of many most delightful hours, and I learned
to know every one's method of proceeding, and what joy and sorrow, what
advantages and hardships, were incident to the indispensable conditions
of this or that mode of life. I was thus brought nearer to that active
class which connects the lower and upper classes. For, if on the one
side stand those who are employed in the simple and rude products, and
on the other those who desire to enjoy something that has been already
worked up; the manufacturer, with his skill and hand, is the mediator
through whom the other two receive something from each other; each is
enabled to gratify his wishes in his own way. The household economy of
many crafts, which took its form and colour from the occupation, was
likewise an object of my quiet attention; and thus was developed and
strengthened in me the feeling of the equality, if not of all men, yet
of all human conditions,--the mere fact of existence seeming to me the
main point, and all the rest indifferent and accidental.

As my father did not readily allow himself an expense which would be
at once consumed in a momentary enjoyment--as I can scarcely call to
mind that we ever took a walk together, and spent anything in a place
of amusement,--he was, on the other hand, not niggardly in procuring
such things as had a good external appearance in addition to inward
value. No one could desire peace more than he, although he had not
felt the smallest inconvenience during the last days of the war. With
this feeling, he had promised my mother a gold snuffbox, set with
diamonds, which she was to receive as soon as peace should be publicly
declared. In the expectation of the happy event, they had laboured
now for some years on this present. The box, which was tolerably
large, had been executed in Hanau, for my father was on good terms
with the gold-workers there, as well as with the heads of the silk
establishments. Many designs were made for it; the cover was adorned by
a basket of flowers, over which hovered a dove with the olive-branch.
A vacant space was left for the jewels, which were to be set partly in
the dove and partly on the spot where the box is usually opened. The
jeweller to whom the execution and the requisite stones were entrusted
was named Lautensak, and was a brisk, skilful man, who like many
artists, seldom did what was necessary, but usually works of caprice,
which gave him pleasure. The jewels were very soon set, in the shape
in which they were to be put upon the box, on some black wax, and
looked very well; but they would not come off to be transferred to the
gold. In the outset, my father let the matter rest; but as the hope of
peace became livelier, and finally when the stipulations--particularly
the elevation of the Archduke Joseph to the Roman throne--seemed more
precisely known, he grew more and more impatient, and I had to go
several times a week, nay, at last, almost daily, to visit the tardy
artist. By means of my unremitted teazing and exhortation, the work
went on, though slowly enough; for as it was of that kind which can
be taken in hand or laid aside at will, there was always something by
which it was thrust out of the way, and put aside.

[Side-note: Lautensak's Bouquet.]

The chief cause of this conduct, however, was a task which the artist
had undertaken on his own account. Everybody knew that the Emperor
Francis cherished a strong liking for jewels, and especially for
coloured stones. Lautensak had expended a considerable sum, and as
it afterwards turned out larger than his means, on such gems, out of
which he had begun to shape a nosegay, in which every stone was to
be tastefully disposed, according to its shape and colour, and the
whole form a work of art worthy to stand in the treasure-vaults of
an emperor. He had, in his desultory way, laboured for many years
upon it, and now hastened--because after the hoped-for peace the
arrival of the Emperor, for the coronation of his son, was expected in
Frankfort--to complete it and finally to put it together. My desire
to become acquainted with such things he used very dexterously in
order to distract me as a bearer of threats, and to lead me away from
my intention. He strove to impart a knowledge of these stones to me,
and made me attentive to their properties and value, so in the end I
knew his whole bouquet by heart, and quite as well as he could have
demonstrated its virtues to a customer. It is even now before me, and
I have since seen more costly, but not more graceful specimens of
show and magnificence in this sort. He possessed, moreover, a pretty
collection of engravings, and other works of art, with which he liked
to amuse himself; and I passed many hours with him, not without profit.
Finally, when the Congress of Hubertsburg was finally fixed, he did
for my sake more than was due; and the dove and flowers actually
reached my mother's hands on the festival in celebration of the peace.

I then received also many similar commissions to urge on painters with
respect to pictures which had been ordered. My father had confirmed
himself in the notion--and few men were free from it--that a picture
painted on wood was greatly to be preferred to one that was merely put
on canvas. It was therefore his great care to possess good oak boards,
of every shape, because he well knew that just on this important point
the more careless artists trusted to the joiners. The oldest planks
were hunted up, the joiners were obliged to go accurately to work with
gluing, painting, and arranging, and they were then kept for years in
an upper room, where they could be sufficiently dried. A precious board
of this kind was intrusted to the painter JUNKER, who was to represent
on it an ornamental flower-pot, with the most important flowers drawn
after nature in his artistic and elegant manner. It was just about
the spring-time, and I did not fail to take him several times a week
the most beautiful flowers that fell in my way, which he immediately
put in, and by degrees composed the whole out of these elements with
the utmost care and fidelity. On one occasion I had caught a mouse,
which I took to him, and which he desired to copy as a very pretty
animal; nay, really represented it, as accurately as possible, gnawing
an ear of corn at the foot of the flower-pot. Many such inoffensive
natural objects, such as butterflies and chafers, were brought in and
represented, so that finally, as far as imitation and execution were
concerned, a highly valuable picture was put together.

Hence I was not a little astonished when the good man formally declared
one day, when the work was just about to be delivered, that the picture
no longer pleased him,--since, while it had turned out quite well in
its details, it was not well composed as a whole, because it had been
produced in this gradual manner; and he had perpetrated a blunder in
the outset, in not at least devising a general plan for light and
shade, as well as for colour, according to which the single flowers
might have been arranged. He examined with me the minutest parts of the
picture, which had arisen before my eyes during a half year, and had
in many respects pleased me, and managed to convince me perfectly,
much to my regret. Even the copy of the mouse he regarded as a mistake;
for many persons, he said, have a sort of horror of such animals, and
they should not be introduced where the object is to excite pleasure.
As it commonly happens with those who are cured of a prejudice, and
imagine themselves much more knowing than they were before, I now had
a real contempt for this work of art, and agreed perfectly with the
artist when he caused to be prepared another tablet of the same size,
on which, according to his taste, he painted a better formed vessel
and a more artistically arranged nosegay, and also managed to select
and distribute the little living accessories in an ornamental and
agreeable way. This tablet also he painted with the greatest care,
though altogether after the former copied one, or from memory, which,
through a very long and assiduous practice, came to his aid. Both
paintings were now ready, and we were thoroughly delighted with the
last, which was certainly the more artistic and striking of the two. My
father was surprised with two pictures instead of one, and to him the
choice was left. He approved of our opinion, and of the reasons for it,
and especially of our good-will and activity; but, after considering
both pictures some days, decided in favour of the first, without saying
much about the motives of his choice. The artist, in an ill-humour,
took back his second well-meant picture, and could not refrain from the
remark that the good oaken tablet on which the first was painted had
certainly its effect on my father's decision.

[Side-note: Oil-Cloth Factory.]

Now I am again speaking of painting, I am reminded of a large
establishment, where I passed much time, because both it and its
managers especially attracted me. It was the great oil-cloth factory
which the painter NOTHNAGEL had erected; an expert artist, but one who
by his mode of thought inclined more to manufacture than to art. In a
very large space of courts and gardens, all sorts of oil-cloths were
made, from the coarsest that are spread with a trowel, and used for
baggage-wagons and similar purposes, and the carpets impressed with
figures, to the finer and the finest, on which sometimes Chinese and
grotesque, sometimes natural flowers, sometimes figures, sometimes
landscapes were represented by the pencils of accomplished workmen.
This multiplicity, to which there was no end, amused me vastly. The
occupation of so many men, from the commonest labour to that in which
a certain artistic worth could not be denied, was to me extremely
attractive. I made the acquaintance of this multitude of younger
and older men, working in several rooms one behind the other, and
occasionally lent a hand myself. The sale of these commodities was
extraordinarily brisk. Whoever at that time was building or furnishing
a house, wished to provide for his lifetime, and this oil-cloth
carpeting was certainly quite indestructible. Nothnagel had enough to
do in managing the whole, and sat in his office surrounded by factors
and clerks. The remainder of his time he employed in his collection of
works of art, consisting chiefly of engravings, in which, as well as in
the pictures he possessed, he traded occasionally. At the same time he
had acquired a taste for etching; he etched a variety of plates, and
prosecuted this branch of art even into his latest years.

As his dwelling lay near the Eschenheim gate, my way when I had
visited him led me out of the city to some pieces of ground which
my father owned beyond the gates. One was a large orchard, the soil
of which was used as a meadow, and in which my father carefully
attended the transplanting of trees, and whatever else pertained to
their preservation, though the ground itself was leased. Still more
occupation was furnished by a very well-preserved vineyard beyond the
Friedberg gate, where between the rows of vines, rows of asparagus were
planted and tended with great care. Scarcely a day passed in the fine
season in which my father did not go there, and as on these occasions
we might generally accompany him, we were provided with joy and delight
from the earliest productions of spring to the last of autumn. We also
learned to occupy ourselves with gardening matters, which, as they were
repeated every year, became in the end perfectly known and familiar to
us. But after the manifold fruits of summer and autumn, the vintage
at last was the most lively and the most desirable: nay, there is no
question that as wine gives a freer character to the very places and
districts where it is grown and drunk, so also do these vintage-days,
while they close summer and at the same time open the winter, diffuse
an incredible cheerfulness. Joy and jubilation pervade a whole
district. In the daytime, huzzas and shoutings are heard from every end
and corner, and at night rockets and fire-balls, now here, now there,
announce that the people, everywhere awake and lively, would willingly
make this festival last as long as possible. The subsequent labour at
the wine-press, and during the fermentation in the cellar, gave us also
a cheerful employment at home, and thus we ordinarily reached winter
without being properly aware of it.

These rural possessions delighted us so much the more in the spring of
1763, as the 15th of February in that year was celebrated as a festival
day, on account of the conclusion of the Hubertsberg peace, under the
happy results of which the greater part of my life was to flow away.
But before I go further, I think I am bound to mention some men who
exerted an important influence on my youth.

[Side-note: Frankfort Characters - Von Olenschlager.]

VON OLENSCHLAGER, a member of the Frauenstein family, a Schöff, and
son-in-law of the above-mentioned Dr. Orth, a handsome, comfortable,
sanguine man. In his official holiday costume he could well have
personated the most important French prelate. After his academical
course, he had employed himself in political and state affairs, and
directed even his travels to that end. He greatly esteemed me, and
often conversed with me on matters which chiefly interested him. I
was with him when he wrote his _Illustration of the Golden Bull_;
when he managed to explain to me very clearly the worth and dignity
of that document. My imagination was led back by it to those wild and
unquiet times, so that I could not forbear representing what he related
historically, as if it were present, by pictures of characters and
circumstances, and often by mimicry. In this he took great delight, and
by his applause excited me to repetition.

I had from childhood the singular habit of always learning by heart the
beginnings of books, and the divisions of a work, first of the five
books of Moses, and then of the _Æneid_ and Ovid's _Metamorphoses._ I
now did the same thing with the _Golden Bull_, and often provoked my
patron to a smile, when I quite seriously and unexpectedly exclaimed,
"_Omne regnum in se divisum desolabitur; nam principes ejus facti sunt
socii furum._"[4] The knowing man shook his head, smiling, and said
doubtingly, "What times those must have been, when at a grand Diet,
the Emperor had such words published in the face of his princes!"

There was a great charm in Von Olenschlager's society. He received
little company, but was strongly inclined to intellectual amusement,
and induced us young people from time to time to perform a play; for
such exercises were deemed particularly useful to the young. We gave
the CANUTE of Schlegel, in which the part of the king was assigned to
me, Elfrida to my sister, and Ulfo to the younger son of the family. We
then ventured on the BRITANNICUS,[5] for, besides our dramatic talents,
we were to bring the language into practice. I took Nero, my sister,
Agrippina, and the younger son, Britannicus. We were more praised than
we deserved, and fancied that we had done it even beyond the amount of
praise. Thus I stood on the best terms with this family, and have been
indebted to them for many pleasures and a speedier development.

[Side-note: Frankfort Characters - Von Reineck.]

VON REINECK, of an old patrician family, able, honest, but stubborn, a
meagre, swarthy man, whom I never saw smile. The misfortune befell him
that his only daughter was carried off by a friend of the family. He
pursued his son-in-law with the most vehement prosecution; and because
the tribunals, with their formality, were neither speedy nor sharp
enough to gratify his desire of vengeance, he fell out with them; and
there arose quarrel on quarrel, suit on suit. He retired completely
into his own house and its adjacent garden, lived in a spacious but
melancholy lower-room, into which for many years no brush of a white
washer, and perhaps scarcely the broom of a maid-servant, had found its
way. Me he could readily endure, and he had especially commended to me
his younger son. He many times asked his oldest friends, who knew how
to humour him, his men of business and agents, to dine with him, and
on these occasions never omitted inviting me. There was good eating
and better drinking at his house. But a large stove, that let out the
smoke from many cracks, caused the greatest pain to his guests. One of
the most intimate of these once ventured to remark upon this, by asking
the host whether he could put up with such an inconvenience all the
winter. He answered, like a second Timon or Heautontimoroumenos: "Would
to God this was the greatest evil of those which torment me!" It was
long before he allowed himself to be persuaded to see his daughter and
grandson. The son-in-law never again dared to come into his presence.

On this excellent but unfortunate man my visits had a very favourable
effect; for while he liked to converse with me, and particularly
instructed me on world and state affairs, he seemed to feel himself
relieved and cheered. The few old friends who still gathered round him,
often, therefore, made use of me when they wished to soften his peevish
humour, and persuade him to any diversion. He now really rode out with
us many times, and again contemplated the country, on which he had not
cast an eye for so many years. He called to mind the old landowners,
and told stones of their characters and actions, in which he showed
himself always severe, but often cheerful and witty. We now tried also
to bring him again among other men, which, however, nearly turned out
badly.

About the same age, if indeed not older, was one HERR VON MALAPERT, a
rich man, who possessed a very handsome house by the Horse-market, and
derived a good income from salt-pits. He also lived quite secluded: but
in summer he was a great deal in his garden, near the Bockenheim gate,
where he watched and tended a very fine plot of pinks.

Von Reineck was likewise an amateur of pinks; the season of flowering
had come, and suggestions were made as to whether these two could not
visit each other. We introduced the matter, and persisted in it, till
at last Von Reineck resolved to go out with us one Sunday afternoon.
The greeting of the two old gentlemen was very laconic, indeed, almost
pantomimic, and they walked up and down by the long pink frames with
true diplomatic strides. The display was really extraordinarily
beautiful, and the particular forms and colours of the different
flowers, the advantages of one over the other, and their rarity, gave
at last occasion to a sort of conversation which appeared to get quite
friendly; at which we others rejoiced the more because we saw the most
precious old Rhine wine in cut decanters, fine fruits, and other good
things spread upon a table in a neighbouring bower. But these, alas,
we were not to enjoy. For Von Reineck unfortunately saw a very fine
pink with its head somewhat hanging down; he therefore took the stalk
near the calyx very cautiously between his fore and middle fingers,
and lifted the flower so that he could well inspect it. But even this
gentle handling vexed the owner. Von Malapert courteously, indeed, but
stiffly enough, and somewhat self-complacently, reminded him of the
_Oculis, non manibus._[6] Von Reineck had already let go the flower,
but at once took fire at the words, and said in his usual dry, serious
manner, that it was quite consistent with an amateur to touch and
examine them in such a manner. Whereupon he repeated the act, and took
the flower again between his fingers. The friends of both parties--for
Von Malapert also had one present--were now in the greatest perplexity.
They set one hare to catch another (that was our proverbial expression,
when a conversation was to be interrupted, and turned to another
subject), but it would not do; the old gentleman had become quite
silent, and we feared every moment that Von Reineck would repeat the
act, when it would be all over with us. The two friends kept their
principals apart by occupying them, now here, now there, and at last
we found it most expedient to make preparation for departure. Thus,
alas! we were forced to turn our backs on the inviting side-board, yet
unenjoyed.

[Side-note: Frankfort Characters - Hofrath Huisgen.]

HOFRATH HUISGEN, not born in Frankfort, of the reformed[7] religion,
and therefore incapable of public office, including the profession
of advocate, which, however, because much confidence was placed in
him as an excellent jurist, he managed to exercise quietly, both in
the Frankfort and the imperial courts, under assumed signatures, was
already sixty years old when I took writing lessons with his son, and
so came into his house. His figure was tall without being thin, and
broad without corpulency. You could not look, for the first time, on
his face, which was not only disfigured by smallpox, but deprived
of an eye, without apprehension. He always wore on his bald head a
perfectly white bell-shaped cap, tied at the top with a ribbon. His
morning-gowns, of calamanco or damask, were always very clean. He
dwelt in a very cheerful suite, of rooms on the ground-floor by the
_Allée_, and the neatness of everything about him corresponded with
this cheerfulness. The perfect arrangement of his papers, books, and
maps, produced a favourable impression. His son Heinrich Sebastian,
afterwards known by various writings on Art, gave little promise in
his youth. Good-natured but dull, not rude but blunt, and without
any special liking for instruction, he rather sought to avoid the
presence of his father, as he could get all he wanted from his mother.
I, on the other hand, grew more and more intimate with the old man,
the more I knew of him. As he attended only to important cases, he
had time enough to occupy and amuse himself in another manner. I
had not long frequented his house, and heard his doctrines, than I
could well perceive that he stood in opposition to God and the world.
One of his favourite books was _Agrippa de Vanitate Scientiarum_,
which he especially commended to me, and so set my young brains in a
considerable whirl for a long time. In the happiness of youth I was
inclined to a sort of optimism, and had again pretty well reconciled
myself with God or the Gods; for the experience of a series of years
had taught me that there was much to counterbalance evil, that one can
well recover from misfortune, and that one may be saved from dangers
and need not always break one's neck. I looked with tolerance, too, on
what men did and pursued, and found many things worthy of praise which
my old gentleman could not by any means abide. Indeed, once when he had
sketched the world to me, rather from the distorted side, I observed
from his appearance that he meant to close the game with an important
trump-card. He shut tight his blind left eye, as he was wont to do in
such cases, looked sharp out of the other, and said in a nasal voice,
"Even in God I discover defects."

My Timonic mentor was also a mathematician, but his practical turn
drove him to mechanics, though he did not work himself. A clock,
wonderful indeed in those days, which indicated not only the days
and hours, but the motions of the sun and moon, he caused to be made
according to his own plan. On Sunday, about ten o'clock in the morning,
he always wound it up himself, which he could do the more regularly, as
he never went to church. I never saw company nor guests at his house;
and only twice in ten years do I remember to have seen him dressed and
walking out of doors.

My various conversations with these men were not insignificant, and
each of them influenced me in his own way. From every one I had as
much attention as his own children, if not more, and each strove to
increase his delight in me as in a beloved son, while he aspired to
mould me into his moral counterpart. Olenschlager would have made me a
courtier, Von Reineck a diplomatic man of business; both, the latter
particularly, sought to disgust me with poetry and authorship. Huisgen
wished me to be a Timon after his fashion, but, at the same time, an
able juris-consult; a necessary profession, as he thought, with which
one could in a regular manner defend oneself and friends against the
rabble of mankind, succour the oppressed, and above all, pay off a
rogue; though the last is neither especially practicable nor advisable.

But if I liked to be at the side of these men to profit by their
counsels and directions, younger persons, only a little older
than myself, roused me to immediate emulation. I name here before
all others, the brothers SCHLOSSER and GRIESBACH. But, as I came
subsequently into a more intimate connexion with these, which lasted
for many years uninterruptedly, I will only say for the present, that
they were then praised as being distinguished in languages and other
studies which opened the academical course, and held up as models, and
that everybody cherished the certain expectation that they would once
do something uncommon in church and state.

With respect to myself, I also had it in my mind to produce something
extraordinary, but in what it was to consist was not clear. But as we
are apt to think rather upon the reward which may be received than
upon the merit which is to be acquired, so, I do not deny, that if I
thought of a desirable piece of good fortune, it appeared to me most
fascinating in the shape of that laurel garland which is woven to adorn
the poet.


[1] The names of the sharp notes in German terminate in "is," and hence
"f" and "g" sharp are called "fis" and "gis."

[2] These are the technical names for classes of accents in the Hebrew
grammar.--_Trans._

[3] It should be observed that in this Biblical narrative, when we
have used the expressions "Deity," "Godhead," or "Divinity," Goethe
generally has "die Götter," or "the Gods."--_Trans,_

[4] Every kingdom divided against itself shall be brought to
desolation; for the princes thereof have become the associates of
robbers.--_Trans._.

[5] Racine's tragedy.--_Trans._

[6] Eyes, not hands.--_Trans._

[7] That is to say, he was a Calvinist, as distinguished from a
Lutheran.--_Trans._




FIFTH BOOK.


Every bird has its decoy, and every man is led and misled in a way
peculiar to himself. Nature, education, circumstances, and habit kept
me apart from all that was rude; and though I often came into contact
with the lower classes of people, particularly mechanics, no close
connexion grew out of it. I had indeed boldness enough to undertake
something uncommon and perhaps dangerous, and many times felt disposed
to do so; but I was without the handle by which to grasp and hold it.

Meanwhile I was quite unexpectedly involved in an affair which brought
me near to a great hazard, and at least for a long time into perplexity
and distress. The good terms on which I before stood with the boy whom
I have already named Pylades was maintained up to the time of my youth.
We indeed saw each other less often, because our parents did not stand
on the best footing with each other; but when we did meet, the old
raptures of friendship broke out immediately. Once we met in the alleys
which offer a very agreeable walk between the outer and inner gate of
Saint Gallus. We had scarcely returned greetings, than he said to me,
"I hold to the same opinion as ever about your verses. Those which you
recently communicated to me, I read aloud to some pleasant companions,
and not one of them will believe that you have made them." "Let it
pass," I answered; "we will make them and enjoy them, and the others
may think and say of them what they please."

"There comes the unbeliever now," added my friend. "We will not speak
of it," I replied; "what is the use of it? one cannot convert them."
"By no means," said my friend; "I cannot let the affair pass off in
this way."

After a short and indifferent conversation, my young comrade, who was
but too well disposed towards me, could not suffer the matter to drop,
without saying to the other, with some resentment, "Here is my friend
who made those pretty verses, for which you will not give him credit!"
"He will certainly not be offended at that," answered the other, "for
we do him an honour when we suppose that more learning is required to
make such verses than one of his years can possess." I replied with
something indifferent; but my friend continued, "It will not cost
much labour to convince you. Give him any theme, and he will make you
a poem on the spot." I assented, we were agreed, and the other asked
me whether I would venture to compose a pretty love-letter in rhyme,
which a modest young woman might be supposed to write to a young man,
to declare her inclination. "Nothing is easier than that," I answered,
"if I only had writing materials." He pulled out his pocket almanac,
in which there were a great many blank leaves, and I sat down upon a
bench to write. They walked about in the meanwhile, but always kept
me in sight. I immediately brought the required situation before my
mind, and thought how agreeable it must be if some pretty girl were
really attached to me, and would reveal her sentiments to me, either in
prose or verse. I therefore began my declaration with delight, and in
a little while executed it in a flowing measure, between doggerel and
madrigal, with the greatest possible _naïveté_, and in such a way that
the sceptic was overcome with admiration, and my friend with delight.
The request of the former to possess the poem I could the less refuse,
as it was-written in his almanac; and I willingly saw the documentary
evidence of my capabilities in his hands. He departed-with many
assurances of admiration and respect, and wished for nothing more than
that we should often meet; so we settled soon to go together into the
country.

Our party actually took place, and was joined by several more young
people of the same rank. They were men of the middle, or, if you
please, of the lower class, who were not wanting in brains, and who
moreover, as they had gone through school, were possessed of various
knowledge and a certain degree of culture. In a large, rich city there
are many modes of gaining a livelihood. These got on by copying for the
lawyers, and by advancing the children of the lower order more than is
usual in common schools. With grown-up children, who were about to be
confirmed, they went through the religious courses; then, again, they
assisted factors and merchants in some way, and were thus enabled to
enjoy themselves frugally in the evenings, and particularly on Sundays
and festivals.

[Side-note: First Acquaintance With Gretchen.]

On the way there, while they highly extolled my love-letter, they
confessed to me that they had made a very merry use of it, viz.--that
it had been copied in a feigned hand, and, with a few pertinent
allusions, had been sent to a conceited young man, who was now firmly
persuaded that a lady to whom he had paid distant court was excessively
enamoured of him, and sought an opportunity for closer acquaintance.
They at the same time told me in confidence, that he desired nothing
more now than to be able to answer her in verse; but that neither he
nor they were skilful enough, so that they earnestly solicited me to
compose the much-desired reply.

Mystifications are and will continue to be an amusement for idle
people, whether more or less ingenious. A venial wickedness, a
self-complacent malice, is an enjoyment for those who have neither
resources in themselves nor a wholesome external activity. No age is
quite exempt from such pruriences. We had often tricked each other in
our childish years; many sports turn upon mystification and trick. The
present jest did not seem to me to go further; I gave my consent. They
imparted to me many particulars which the letter ought to contain, and
we brought it home already finished.

A little while afterwards I was urgently invited, through my friend,
to take part in one of the evening feasts of that society. The lover,
he said, was willing to bear the expense on this occasion, and desired
expressly to thank the friend who had shown himself so excellent a
poetical secretary.

We came together late enough, the meal was most frugal, the wine
drinkable: while as for the conversation, it turned almost entirely
on jokes upon the young man, who was present, and certainly not very
bright, and who, after repeated readings of the letter, almost believed
that he had written it himself.

My natural good-nature would not allow me to take much pleasure in such
a malicious deception, and the repetition of the same subject soon
disgusted me. I should certainly have passed a tedious evening, if an
unexpected apparition had not revived me. On our arrival the table
had already been neatly and orderly covered, and sufficient wine had
been put on; we sat down and remained alone, without requiring further
service. As there was, however, a want of wine at last, one of them
called for the maid; but instead of the maid there came in a girl of
uncommon, and, when one saw her with all around her, of incredible
beauty. "What do you desire?" she asked, after having cordially wished
us a good evening; "the maid is ill in bed. Can I serve you?" "The wine
is out," said one; "if you would fetch us a few bottles, it would be
very kind." "Do it, Gretchen,"[1] said another, "it is but a cat's leap
from here." "Why not?" she answered, and taking a few empty bottles
from the table, she hastened out. Her form, as seen from behind, was
almost more elegant. The little cap sat so neatly upon her little
head, which a slender throat united very gracefully to her neck and
shoulders. Everything about her seemed choice, and one could survey her
whole form the more at ease, as one's attention was no more exclusively
attracted and fettered by the quiet, honest eyes and lovely mouth.
I reproved my comrades for sending the girl out alone at night, but
they only laughed at me, and I was soon consoled by her return, as the
publican lived only just across the way. "Sit down with us, in return,"
said one. She did so; but, alas, she did not come near me. She drank
a glass to our health, and speedily departed, advising us not to stay
very long together, and not to be so noisy, as her mother was just
going to bed. It was not, however, her own mother, but the mother of
our hosts.

The form of that girl followed me from that moment on every path; it
was the first durable impression which a female being had made upon me;
and as I could find no pretext to see her at home, and would not seek
one, I went to church for love of her, and had soon traced out where
she sat. Thus, during the long Protestant service, I gazed my fill at
her. When the congregation left the church I did not venture to accost
her, much less to accompany her, and was perfectly delighted if she
seemed to have remarked me and to have returned my greeting with a
nod. Yet I was not long denied the happiness of approaching her. They
had persuaded the lover, whose poetical secretary I had been, that
the letter written in his name had been actually despatched to the
lady, and had strained to the utmost his expectations that an answer
must soon come. This, also, I was to write, and the waggish company
entreated me earnestly, through Pylades, to exert all my wit and employ
all my art, in order that this piece might be quite elegant and perfect.

[Side-note: Gretchen's Advice.]

In the hope of again seeing my fair one, I went immediately to work,
and thought of everything that would be in the highest degree pleasing
if Gretchen were writing it to me. I imagined I had written out
everything so completely from her form, her nature, her manner, and
her mind, that I could not refrain from wishing that it were so in
reality, and lost myself in rapture at the mere thought that something
similar could be sent from her to me. Thus I mystified myself, while
I intended to impose upon another; and much joy and much trouble was
yet to arise out of the affair. When I was once more summoned, I had
finished, promised to come, and did not fail at the appointed hour.
There was only one of the young people at home; Gretchen sat at the
window spinning; the mother was going to and fro. The young man desired
that I should read it over to him; I did so, and read not without
emotion, as I glanced over the paper at the beautiful girl; and when I
fancied that I remarked a certain uneasiness in her deportment, and a
gentle flush on her cheeks, I uttered better and with more animation
that which I wished to hear from herself. The cousin, who had often
interrupted me with commendations, at last entreated me to make some
amendments. These affected some passages which indeed were rather
suited to the condition of Gretchen than to that of the lady, who was
of a good family, wealthy, and known and respected in the city. After
the young man had designated the desired changes, and had brought me
an inkstand, but had taken, leave for a short time on account of some
business, I remained sitting on the bench against the wall, behind the
large table, and essayed the alterations that were to be made, on the
large slate, which almost covered the whole table, with a pencil that
always lay in the window, because upon this slate reckonings were often
made, and various memoranda noted down, and those coming in or going
out even communicated with each other.

I had for a-while written different things and rubbed them out again,
when I exclaimed impatiently, "It will not do!" "So much the better,"
said the dear girl, in a grave tone; "I wished that it might not do!
You should not meddle in such matters." She arose from the distaff,
and stepping towards the table, gave me a severe lecture, with a great
deal of good sense and kindliness. "The thing seems an innocent jest;
it is a jest, but it is not innocent. I have already lived to see
several cases, in which our young people, for the sake of such mere
mischief, have brought themselves into great difficulty." "But what
shall I do?" I asked; "the letter is written, and they rely upon me to
alter it." "Trust me," she replied, "and do not alter it; nay, take
it back, put it in your pocket, go away, and try to make the matter
straight through your friend. I will also put in a word; for look you,
though I am a poor girl, and dependent upon these relations,--who
indeed do nothing bad, though they often, for the sake of sport or
profit, undertake a good deal that is rash,--I have resisted them, and
would not copy the first letter, as they requested. They transcribed
it in a feigned hand, and if it is not otherwise, so may they also do
with this. And you, a young man of good family, rich, independent, why
will you allow yourself to be used as a tool in a business which can
certainly bring no good to you, and may possibly bring much that is
unpleasant?" I was glad to hear her speaking thus continuously, for
generally she introduced but few words into conversation. My liking
for her grew incredibly,--I was not master of myself,--and replied, "I
am not so independent as you suppose; and of what use is wealth to me,
when the most precious thing I can desire is wanting?"

She had drawn my sketch of the poetic epistle towards her, and read it
half aloud in a sweet and graceful manner. "That is very pretty," said
she, stopping at a sort of _naïve_ point; "but it is a pity that it is
not destined for a real purpose." "That were indeed very desirable,"
I cried, "and, oh! how happy must he be, who receives from a girl he
infinitely loves, such an assurance of her affection." "There is much
required for that," she answered; "and yet many things are possible."
"For example," I continued, "if any one who knew, prized, honoured,
and adored you, laid such a paper before you, what would you do?" I
pushed the paper nearer to her, which she had previously pushed back to
me. She smiled, reflected for a moment, took the pen, and subscribed
her name. I was beside myself with rapture, sprang up, and would have
embraced her. "No kissing!" said she, "that is so vulgar; but let
us love if we can." I had taken up the paper, and thrust it into my
pocket. "No one shall ever get it," said I; "the affair is closed.
You have saved me." "Now complete the salvation," she exclaimed, "and
hurry off, before the others arrive, and you fall into trouble and
embarrassment." I could not tear myself away from her; but she asked me
in so kindly a manner, while she took my right hand in both of hers,
and lovingly pressed it! The tears stood in my eyes; I thought hers
looked moist. I pressed my face upon her hands and hastened away. Never
in my life had I found myself in such perplexity.

[Side-note: Juvenile Love.]

The first propensities to love in an uncorrupted youth take altogether
a spiritual direction. Nature seems to desire that one sex may by the
senses perceive goodness and beauty in the other. And thus to me, by
the sight of this girl--by my strong inclination for her--a new world
of the beautiful and the excellent had arisen. I read my poetical
epistle a hundred times through, gazed upon the signature, kissed it,
pressed it to my heart, and rejoiced in this amiable confession. But
the more my transports increased, the more did it pain me, not to be
able to visit her immediately, and to see and converse with her again;
for I dreaded the reproofs and importunities of her cousins. The good
Pylades, who might have arranged the affair, I could not contrive
to meet. The next Sunday, therefore, I set out for Niederrad, where
these associates generally used to go, and actually found them there.
I was, however, greatly surprised, when, instead of behaving in a
cross, distant manner, they came up to me with joyful, countenances.
The youngest particularly was very friendly, took me by the hand, and
said, "You have lately played us a sorry trick, and we were very angry
with you; but your absconding and taking away the poetical epistle
has suggested a good thought to us, which otherwise might never have
occurred. By way of atonement, you may treat us to-day, and you shall
learn at the same time the notion we have, which will certainly give
you pleasure." This address put me in no little perplexity; for I had
about me only money enough to regale myself and a friend; but to treat
a whole company, and especially one which did not always stop at the
right time, I was by no means prepared; nay, the proposal astonished
me the more, as they had always insisted, in the most honourable
manner, that each one should pay only his own share. They smiled at my
distress, and the youngest proceeded, "Let us first take a seat in the
bower, and then you shall learn more." We sat down, and he said, "When
you had taken the love-letter with you, we talked the whole affair over
again, and came to a conclusion that we had gratuitously misused your
talent to the vexation of others and our own danger, for the sake of
a mere paltry love of mischief, when we could have employed it to the
advantage of all of us. See, I have here an order for a wedding-poem,
as well as for a dirge. The second must be ready immediately, the
other can wait a week. Now, if you make these; which is easy for you,
you will treat us twice, and we shall long remain your debtors." This
proposition pleased me in every respect; for I had already in my
childhood looked with a certain envy on the occasional poems,[2] of
which then several circulated every week, and at respectable marriages
especially came to light by the dozen, because I thought I could make
such things as well, nay, better than others. Now an opportunity was
offered me to show myself, and especially to see myself in print.
I did not appear disinclined. They acquainted me with the personal
particulars and the position of the family; I went somewhat aside, made
my plan, and produced some stanzas. However, when I returned to the
company, and the wine was not spared, the poem began to halt, and I
could not deliver it that evening. "There is still time till to-morrow
evening," they said; "and we will confess to you that the fee which
we receive for the dirge is enough to get us another pleasant evening
to-morrow. Come to us; for it is but fair that Gretchen too should sup
with us, as it was she properly who gave us the notion." My joy was
unspeakable. On my way home I had only the remaining stanzas in my
head, wrote down the whole before I went to sleep, and the next morning
made a very neat fair copy. The day seemed infinitely long to me; and
scarcely was it dusk, than I found myself again in the narrow little
dwelling beside the dearest of girls.

[Side-note: Gretchen and Her Friends.]

The young persons with whom in this way I formed a closer and closer
connexion were not properly low, but ordinary sort of people. Their
activity was commendable, and I listened to them with pleasure when
they spoke of the manifold ways and means by which one could gain a
living; above all they loved to tell of people, now very rich, who
had begun with nothing. Others to whom they referred had, as poor
clerks, rendered themselves indispensable to their employers, and had
finally risen to be their sons-in-law: while others had so enlarged
and improved a little trade in matches and the like, that they were
now prosperous merchants and tradesmen. But above all, to young men,
who were active on their feet, the trade of agent and factor, and the
undertaking of all sorts of commissions and charges for helpless rich
men was, they said, a most profitable means of gaining a livelihood.
We all heard this eagerly, and each one fancied himself somebody, when
he imagined, at the moment, that there was enough in him, not only to
get on in the world, but to acquire an extraordinary fortune. But no
one seemed to carry on this conversation more earnestly than Pylades,
who at last confessed that he had an extraordinary passion for a girl,
and was actually engaged to her. The circumstances of his parents would
not allow him to go to universities, but he had endeavoured to acquire
a fine handwriting, a knowledge of accounts, and the modern languages,
and would now do his best in hopes of attaining that domestic felicity.
The cousins praised him for this, although they did not approve of a
premature engagement to a girl, and they added, that while forced to
acknowledge him to be a fine good fellow, they did not consider him
active or enterprising enough to do anything extraordinary. While he,
in vindication of himself, circumstantially set forth what he thought
himself fit for, and how he was going to begin, the others were also
incited, and each one began to tell what he was now able to do, doing,
or carrying on, what he had already accomplished, and what he saw
immediately before him. The turn at last came to me. I was to set forth
my course of life and prospects, and while I was considering, Pylades
said, "I make this one proviso, if we all would stand on a level, that
he does not bring into the account the external advantages of his
position. He should rather tell us a tale how he would proceed if at
this moment he were thrown entirely upon his own resources, as we are."

Gretchen, who till this moment, had kept on spinning, rose and seated
herself as usual at the end of the table. We had already emptied some
bottles, and I began to relate the hypothetical history of my life in
the best humour. "First of all, then, I commend myself to you," said I,
"that you may continue the custom you have begun to bestow on me. If
you gradually procure me the profit of all the occasional poems, and we
do not consume them in mere feasting, I shall soon come to something.
But then you must not take it ill if I dabble also in your handicraft."
Upon this I told them what I had observed in their occupations, and
for which I held myself fit at any rate. Each one had previously
rated his services** in money, and I asked them to assist me also in
completing my establishment. Gretchen had listened to all hitherto very
attentively, and that in a position which well suited her, whether
she chose to hear or to speak. With both hands she clasped her folded
arms, and rested them on the edge of the table. Thus she could sit a
long while without moving anything but her head, which was never done
without occasion or meaning. She had several times put in a word and
helped us on over this and that, when we halted in our projects, and
then was again still and quiet as usual. I kept her in my eye, and it
may readily be supposed that I had not devised and uttered my plan
without reference to her. My passion for her gave to what I said such
an air of truth and probability, that for a moment I deceived myself,
imagined myself as lonely and helpless as my story supposed, and felt
extremely happy in the prospect of possessing her. Pylades had closed
his confession with marriage, and the question arose among the rest of
us, whether our plans went as far as that. "I have not the least doubt
on that score," said I, "for properly a wife is necessary to every one
of us, in order to preserve at home and enable us to enjoy as a whole
what we rake together abroad in such an odd way." I then made a sketch
of a wife, such as I wished, and it must have turned out strangely if
she had not been a perfect counterpart of Gretchen.

The dirge was consumed; the epithalamium now stood beneficially at
hand; I overcame all fear and care, and contrived, as I had many
acquaintances, to conceal my actual evening entertainments from my
family. To see and to be near the dear girl was soon an indispensable
condition of my being. The friends had grown just as accustomed to me,
and we were almost daily together, as if it could not be otherwise.
Pylades had, in the meantime, introduced his fair one into the house,
and this pair passed many an evening with us. They, as bride and
bridegroom, though still very much in the bud, did not conceal their
tenderness; Gretchen's deportment towards me was only suited to keep me
at a distance. She gave her hand to no one, not even to me; she allowed
no touch; yet she many times seated herself near me, particularly when
I wrote or read aloud, and then laying her arm familiarly upon my
shoulder, she looked over the book or paper. If, however, I ventured
on a similar freedom towards her, she withdrew, and would not soon
return. This position she often repeated, and indeed all her attitudes
and motions were very uniform, but always equally fitting, beautiful,
and charming. But such a familiarity I never saw her practise towards
anybody else.

[Side-note: The Höchst Market-Ship.]

One of the most innocent, and at the same time amusing, parties of
pleasure in which I engaged with different companies of young people,
was this: that we seated ourselves in the Höchst market-ship, observed
the strange passengers packed away in it, and bantered and teased, now
this one, now that, as pleasure or caprice prompted. At Höchst we got
out at the same time as the market-boat from Mentz arrived. At a hotel
there was a well-spread table, where the better sort of travellers,
coming and going, ate with each other, and then proceeded, each on
his way, as both ships returned. Every time, after dining, we sailed
up to Frankfort, having, with a very large company, made the cheapest
water-excursion that was possible. Once I had undertaken this journey
with Gretchen's cousins, when a young man joined us at table in Höchst,
who might be a little older than we were. They knew him, and he got
himself introduced to me. He had something very pleasing in his manner,
though he was not otherwise distinguished. Coming from Mentz, he now
went back with us to Frankfort, and conversed with me of everything
that related to the internal arrangements of the city, and the public
offices and places, on which he seemed to me to be very well informed.
When we separated he bade me farewell, and added, that he wished I
might think well of him, as he hoped on occasion to avail himself of my
recommendation. I did not know what he meant by this, but the cousins
enlightened me some days after; they spoke well of him, and asked me
to intercede with my grandfather, as a moderate appointment was just
now vacant, which this friend would like to obtain. I at first excused
myself, because I had never meddled in such affairs; but they went on
urging me until I resolved to do it. I had already many times remarked
that, in these grants of offices, which unfortunately were often
regarded as matters of favour, the mediation of my grandmother or an
aunt had not been without effect. I was now so advanced as to arrogate
some influence to myself. For that reason, to gratify my friends, who
declared themselves under every sort of obligation for such a kindness,
I overcame the timidity of a grandchild, and undertook to deliver a
written application that was handed in to me.

One Sunday, after dinner, as my grandfather was busy in his garden, all
the more because autumn was approaching, and I tried to assist him on
every side; I came forward with my request and the petition, after some
hesitation. He looked at it, and asked me whether I knew the young man.
I told him in general terms what was to be said, and he let the matter
rest there. "If he has merit, and moreover good testimonials, I will
favour him for your sake and his own." He said no more, and for a long
while I heard nothing of the matter.

[Side-note: Gretchen's New Situation.]

For some time I had observed that Gretchen span no more, but on the
other hand was employed in sewing, and that, too, on very fine work,
which surprised me the more, as the days were already shortening, and
winter was coming on. I thought no farther about it, only it troubled
me that several times I had not found her at home in the morning as
formerly, and could not learn, without importunity, whither she had
gone. Yet I was destined one day to be surprised in a very odd manner.
My sister, who was getting herself ready for a ball, asked me to fetch
her some so-called Italian flowers, at a fashionable milliner's. They
were made in convents, and were small and pretty; myrtles especially,
dwarf-roses, and the like, came out quite beautifully and naturally. I
granted her the favour, and went to the shop where I had already often
been with her. Hardly had I entered and greeted the proprietress, than
I saw sitting in the window a lady, who in a lace cap looked very young
and pretty, and in a silk mantilla seemed very well shaped. I could
easily recognize that she was an assistant, for she was occupied in
fastening a ribbon and feathers upon a hat: The milliner showed me the
long box with single flowers of various sorts; I looked them over, and
as I made my choice glanced again towards the lady in the window; butious, if not unpleasant
consequences. For some time, already, Count Lindto Gretchen, nay, was forced to be convinced at last that it was
Gretchen herself. No doubt remained, when she winked with her eyes and
gave me a sign that I must not betray our acquaintance. I now with my
choosing and rejecting drove the milliner into despair more than even a
lady could have done. I had, in fact, no choice, for I was excessively
confused, and at the same time liked to linger, because it kept me
near the girl, whose disguise annoyed me, though in that disguise she
appeared to me more enchanting than ever. Finally, the milliner seemed
to lose all patience, and with her own hands selected for me a whole
bandbox full of flowers, which I was to place before my sister and let
her choose for herself. Thus I was, as it were, driven out of the shop,
while she sent the box first by one of her girls.

Scarcely had I reached home than my father caused me to be called, and
communicated to me that it was now quite certain that the Archduke
Joseph would be elected and crowned King of Rome. An event so highly
important was not to be expected without preparation, nor allowed to
pass with mere gaping and staring. He wished, therefore, he said, to
go through with me the election and coronation-diaries of the two last
coronations, as well as through the last capitulations of election,
in order to remark what new conditions might be added in the present
instance. The diaries were opened, and we occupied ourselves with them
the whole day till far into the night, while the pretty girl, sometimes
in her old house-dress, sometimes in her new costume, ever hovered
before me, backwards and forwards among the most august objects of the
Holy Roman Empire. This evening it was impossible to see her, and I
lay awake through a very restless night. The study of yesterday was
the next day zealously resumed, and it was not till towards evening
that I found it possible to visit my fair one, whom I met again in her
usual house-dress. She smiled when she saw me, but I did not venture
to mention anything before the others. When the whole company sat
quietly together again, she began and said, "It is unfair that you
do not confide to our friend what we have lately resolved upon." She
then continued to relate, that after our late conversation, in which
the discussion was how any one could get on in the world, something
was also said of the way in which a woman could enhance the value of
her talent and labour, and advantageously employ her time. The cousins
had consequently proposed that she should make an experiment at a
milliner's who was just then in want of an assistant. They had, she
said, arranged with the woman; she went there so many hours a-day,
and was well paid; only when there she was obliged, for propriety's
sake, to conform to a certain dress, which, however, she left behind
her every time, as it did not at all suit her other modes of life and
employment. I was indeed set at rest by this declaration, but it did
not quite please me to know that the pretty girl was in a public shop,
and at a place where the fashionable world found a convenient resort.
But I betrayed nothing, and strove to work off my jealous care in
silence. For this the younger cousin did not allow me a long time, as
he once more came forward with a proposal for an occasional poem, told
me all the personalities, and at once desired me to prepare myself for
the invention and disposition of the work. He had already spoken with
me several times concerning the proper treatment of such a theme, and
as I was voluble in these cases, he readily asked me to explain to
him circumstantially what is rhetorical in these things, to give him
a notion of the matter, and to make use of my own and others' labours
in this kind for examples. The young man had some brains, though he
was without a trace of a poetical vein, and now he went so much into
particulars, and wished to have such an account of everything, that I
gave utterance to the remark: "It seems as if you wanted to encroach
upon my trade and steal away my customers!" "I will not deny it," said
he, smiling, "as I shall do you no harm by it. This will only continue
to the time when you go to the university, and till then you must allow
me still to profit something by your society." "Most cordially," I
replied, and I encouraged him to draw out a plan, to choose a metre
according to the character of his subject, and to do whatever else
might seem necessary. He went to work in earnest, but did not succeed.
I was in the end compelled to re-write so much of it, that I could
more easily and better have written it all from the beginning myself.
Yet this teaching and learning, this mutual labour, afforded us good
entertainment: Gretchen took part in it and had many a pretty notion,
so that we were all pleased, we may indeed say, happy. During the
day she worked at the milliner's: in the evenings we generally met
together, and our contentment was not even disturbed when at last the
commissions for occasional poems began to leave off. Still we felt
hurt once, when one of them came back under protest, because it did
not suit the party who ordered it. We consoled ourselves, however, as
we considered it our very best work, and could therefore declare the
other a bad judge. The cousin, who was determined to learn something
at any rate, resorted to the expedient of inventing problems, in the
solution of which we always found amusement enough, but as they brought
in nothing, our little banquets had to be much more frugally managed.

[Side-note: Preparations for the Election.]

That great political object, the election and coronation of a King of
Rome, was pursued with more and more earnestness. The assembling of
the electoral college, originally appointed to take place at Augsburg
in the October of 1763, was now transferred to Frankfort, and both at
the end of this year and in the beginning of the next, preparations
went forward, which should usher in this important business. The
beginning was made by a parade never yet seen by us. One of our
chancery officials on horseback, escorted by four trumpeters likewise
mounted, and surrounded by a guard of infantry, read in a loud clear
voice at all the corners of the city, a prolix edict, which announced
the forthcoming proceedings, and exhorted the citizens to a becoming
deportment suitable to the circumstances. The council was occupied
with weighty considerations, and it was not long before the Imperial
Quarter-Master, despatched by the Hereditary Grand Marshal, made
his appearance, in order to arrange and designate the residences of
the ambassadors and their suites, according to the old custom. Our
house lay in the Palatine district, and we had to provide for a new
but agreeable billetting. The middle story, which Count Thorane had
formerly occupied, was given up to a cavalier of the Palatinate, and as
Baron von Königsthal, the Nuremberg _chargé d'affaires_, occupied the
upper floor, we were still more crowded than in the time of the French.
This served me as a new excuse to be out of doors, and to pass the
greater part of the day in the streets, that I might see all that was
open to public view.

After the preliminary alteration and arrangement of the rooms in the
town-house had seemed to us worth seeing, after the arrival of the
ambassadors one after another, and their first solemn ascent in a body,
on the 6th of February, had taken place, we admired the coming in of
the imperial commissioners, and their ascent also to the _Römer_,
which was made with great pomp. The dignified person of the PRINCE of
LICHTENSTEIN made a good impression; yet connoisseurs maintained that
the showy liveries had already been used on another occasion, and that
this election and coronation would hardly equal in brilliancy that
of Charles the Seventh. We younger folks were content with what was
before our eyes; all seemed to us very fine, and much of it perfectly
astonishing.

The electoral congress was fixed at last for the 3rd of March. New
formalities again set the city in motion, and the alternate visits of
ceremony on the part of the ambassadors kept us always on our legs.
We were compelled, too, to watch closely, as we were not only to gape
about, but to note everything well, in order to give a proper report at
home, and even to make out many little memoirs, on which my father and
Herr von Königsthal had deliberated, partly for our exercise and partly
for their own information. And certainly this was of peculiar advantage
to me, as I was enabled very tolerably to keep a living election and
coronation-diary, as far as regarded externals.

[Side-note: Baron Von Plotho.]

The person who first of all made a durable impression upon me was
the chief ambassador from the electorate of Mentz, BARON VON ERTHAL,
afterwards Elector. Without having anything striking in his figure,
he was always highly pleasing to me in his black gown trimmed with
lace. The second ambassador, BARON VON GROSCHLAG, was a well-formed
man of the world, easy in his exterior, but conducting himself with
great decorum. He everywhere produced a very agreeable impression.
PRINCE ESTERHAZY, the Bohemian envoy, was not tall, though well-formed,
lively, and at the same time eminently decorous, without pride or
coldness. I had a special liking for him, because he reminded me
of MARSHAL DE BROGLIO. Yet the form and dignity of these excellent
persons vanished, in a certain degree, before the prejudice that was
entertained in favour of BARON VON PLOTHO, the Brandenburg ambassador.
This man, who was distinguished by a certain parsimony, both in his
own clothes and in his liveries and equipages, had been greatly
renowned from the time of the seven years' war, as a diplomatic hero.
At Ratisbon, when the Notary April thought, in the presence of
witnesses, to serve him with the declaration of outlawry which had
been issued against his king, he had, with the laconic exclamation:
"What! you serve:" thrown him, or caused him to be thrown, down
stairs. We believed the first, because it pleased us best, and we
could readily believe it of the little compact man, with his black,
fiery eyes glancing here and there. All eyes were directed towards
him, particularly when he alighted. There arose every time a sort of
joyous whispering, and but little was wanting to a regular explosion,
or a shout of _Vivat!_ _Bravo!_ So high did the king, and all who were
devoted to him, body and soul, stand in favour with the crowd, among
whom, besides the Frankforters, were Germans from all parts.

On the one hand these things gave me much pleasure; as all that took
place, no matter of what nature it might be, concealed a certain
meaning, indicated some internal relation, and such symbolic ceremonies
again, for a moment, represented as living the old Empire of Germany,
almost choked to death by so many parchments, papers, and books. But,
on the other hand, I could not suppress a secret displeasure, when I
was forced, at home, on my father's account, to transcribe the internal
transactions, and at the same time to remark that here several powers,
which balanced each other, stood in opposition, and only so far agreed,
as they designed to limit the new ruler even more than the old one;
that every one valued his influence only so far as he hoped to retain
or enlarge his privileges, and better to secure his independence. Nay,
on this occasion they were more attentive than usual, because they
began to fear Joseph the Second, his vehemence and probable plans.

With my grandfather and other members of the council, whose families
I used to visit, this was no pleasant time, they had so much to do
with meeting distinguished guests, complimenting, and the delivery
of presents. No less had the magistrate, both in general and in
particular, to defend himself, to resist, and to protest, as every
one on such occasions desires to extort something from him, or burden
him with something, und few of those to whom he appeals support him,
or lend him their aid. In short, all that I had read in _Lersner's
Chronicle_ of similar incidents on similar occasions, with admiration
of the patience and perseverance of those good old councilmen, came
once more vividly before my eyes.

Many vexations arise also from this, that the city is gradually overrun
with people, both useful and needless. In vain are the courts reminded,
on the part of the city, of prescriptions of the Golden Bull, now,
indeed, obsolete. Not only the deputies with their attendants, but many
persons of rank, and others who come from curiosity or for private
objects, stand under protection, and the question as to who is to
be billetted out, and who is to hire his own lodging, is not always
decided at once. The tumult constantly increases, and even those who
have nothing to give, or to answer for, begin to feel uncomfortable.

Even we young people, who could quietly contemplate it all, ever found
something which did not quite satisfy our eyes or our imagination. The
Spanish mantles, the huge feathered hats of the ambassadors, and other
objects here and there, had indeed a truly antique look; but there
was a great deal, on the other hand, so half-new or entirely modern,
that the affair assumed throughout a motley, unsatisfactory, often
tasteless appearance. We were very happy to learn, therefore, that
great preparations were made on account of the journey to Frankfort of
the Emperor and future King; that the proceedings of the college of
electors, which were based on the last electoral capitulation, were now
going forward rapidly; and that the day of election had been appointed
for the 27th of March. Now there was a thought of fetching the insignia
of the Empire from Nuremberg and Aix-la-Chapelle, and next we expected
the entrance of the Elector of Mentz, while the disputes with his
ambassadors about the quartering ever continued.

Meanwhile I pursued my clerical labours at home very actively, and
perceived many little suggestions (_monita_) which came in from all
sides, and were to be regarded in the new capitulation. Every rank
desired to see its privileges guaranteed and its importance increased
in this document. Very many such observations and desires were,
however, put aside; much remained as it was, though the suggestors
(_monentes_) received the most positive assurances that the neglect
should in no wise ensue to their prejudice.

In the meanwhile the office of Imperial Marshal was forced to undertake
many dangerous affairs; the crowd of strangers increased, and it became
more and more difficult to find lodgings for them. Nor was there
unanimity as to the limits of the different precincts of the Electors.
The magistracy wished to keep from the citizens the burdens which
they were not bound to bear, and thus day and night there were hourly
grievances, redresses, contests, and misunderstandings.

The entrance of the Elector of Mentz happened on the 21st of May. Then
began the cannonading, with which for a long time we were often to be
deafened. This solemnity was important in the series of ceremonies; for
all the men whom we had hitherto seen, high as they were in rank, were
still only subordinates; but here appeared a sovereign, an independent
prince, the first after the Emperor, preceded and accompanied by a
large retinue worthy of himself. Of the pomp which marked his entrance
I should have much to tell, if I did not purpose returning to it
hereafter, and on an occasion which no one could easily guess.

[Side-note: Lavater.]

What I refer to is this:--the same day, LAVATER, on his return home
from Berlin, came through Frankfort, and saw the solemnity. Now, though
such worldly formalities could not have the least value for him, this
procession, with its display and all its accessaries, might have been
distinctly impressed on his very lively imagination; for, many years
afterwards, when this eminent but singular man showed me a poetical
paraphrase of, I believe, the Revelation of St. John, I discovered
the entrance of Anti-Christ copied, step by step, figure by figure,
circumstance by circumstance, from the entrance of the Elector of Mentz
into Frankfort, in such a manner, too, that even the tassels on the
heads of the dun-coloured horses were not wanting. More can be said
on this point when I reach the epoch of that strange kind of poetry,
by which it was supposed that the myths of the Old and New Testaments
were brought nearer to our view and feelings when they were completely
travestied into the modern style, and clothed with the vestments of
present life, whether gentle or simple. How this mode of treatment
gradually obtained favour, will be likewise discussed hereafter; yet I
may here simply remark that it could not well be carried further than
it was by Lavater and his emulators, one of these having described
the three holy kings riding into Bethlehem, in such modern form, that
the princes and gentlemen whom Lavater used to visit were not to be
mistaken as the persons.

We will then for the present allow the ELECTOR EMERIC Joseph to enter
the Compostello incognito, so to speak, and turn to Gretchen, whom,
just as the crowd was dispersing, I spied in the crowd, accompanied
by Pylades and his mistress, the three now seeming to be inseparable.
We had scarcely come up to each other and exchanged greetings, than
it was agreed that we should pass the evening together, and I kept
the appointment punctually. The usual company had assembled, and
each one had something to relate, to say, or to remark--how one had
been most struck by this thing and another by that. "Your speeches,"
said Gretchen at last, "perplex me even more than the events of the
time themselves. What I have seen I cannot make out; and should very
much like to know what a great deal of it means." I replied that it
was easy for me to render her this service. She had only to say what
particularly interested her. This she did, and as I was about to
explain some points, it was found that it would be better to proceed
in order. I not unskilfully compared these solemnities and functions
to a play, in which the curtain was let down at will, while the actors
played on, and was then raised again, so that the spectators could
once more, to some extent, take part in the action. As now I was very
loquacious when I was allowed my own way, I related the whole, from
the beginning down to the time present, in the best order; and to
make the subject of my discourse more apparent, did not fail to use
the pencil and the large slate. Being only slightly interrupted by
some questions and obstinate assertions of the others, I brought my
discourse to a close, to the general satisfaction, while Gretchen,
by her unbroken attention, had highly encouraged me. At last she
thanked me, and envied, as she said, all who were informed of the
affairs of this world, and knew how this and that came about and what
it signified. She wished she were a boy, and managed to acknowledge,
with much kindness, that she was indebted to me for a great deal of
instruction. "If I were a boy," said she, "we would learn something
good together at the university." The conversation continued in this
strain; she definitively resolved to take instruction in French, of the
absolute necessity of which she had become well aware in the milliner's
shop. I asked her why she no longer went there; for dining the latter
times, not being able to go out much in the evening, I had often passed
the shop during the day for her sake, merely to see her for a moment.
She explained that she had not liked to expose herself there in these
unsettled times. As soon as the city returned to its former condition
she intended to go there again.

[Side-note: Approach of the Election.]

Then the discourse was on the impending day of election. I contrived to
tell, at length, what was going to happen, and how, and to support my
demonstrations in detail by drawings on the tablet; for I had the place
of conclave, with its altars, thrones, seats, and chairs, perfectly
before my mind. We separated at the proper time, and in a peculiarly
comfortable frame of mind.

For, with a young couple who are in any degree harmoniously formed by
nature, nothing can conduce to a more beautiful union than when the
maiden is anxious to learn, and the youth inclined to teach. There
arises from it a well-grounded and agreeable relation. She sees in him
the creator of her spiritual existence, and he sees in her a creature
that ascribes her perfection, not to nature, not to chance, nor to any
one-sided inclination, but to a mutual will; and this reciprocation is
so sweet, that we cannot wonder, if from the days of the old and the
new[3] Abelard, the most violent passions, and as much happiness as
unhappiness, have arisen from such an intercourse of two beings.

With the next day began great commotion in the city, on account of
the visits paid and returned which now took place with the greatest
ceremony. But what particularly interested me, as a citizen of
Frankfort, and gave rise to a great many reflections, was the taking of
the oath of security (_Sicherheitseides_) by the council, the military,
and the body of citizens, not through representatives, but personally,
and in mass: first, in the great hall of the Römer, by the magistracy
and staff-officers; then in the great square (_Platz_), the Römerberg,
by all the citizens, according to their respective ranks, gradations,
or quarterings; and lastly by the rest of the military. Here one could
survey at a single glance the entire commonwealth, assembled for the
honourable purpose of swearing security to the head and members of the
Empire, and unbroken peace during the great work now impending. The
Electors of Treves and of Cologne had now also arrived in person. On
the evening before the day of election all strangers are sent out of
the city, the gates are closed, the Jews are confined to their quarter,
and the citizen of Frankfort prides himself not a little that he alone
may be a witness of so great a solemnity.

All that had hitherto taken place was tolerably modern; the highest and
high personages moved about only in coaches; but now we were going to
see them in the primitive manner on horseback. The concourse and rush
were extraordinary. I managed to squeeze myself into the Römer, which
I knew as familiarly as a mouse does the private corn-loft, till I
reached the main entrance, before which the Electors and ambassadors,
who had first arrived in their state-coaches, and had assembled above,
were now to mount their horses. The stately, well-trained steeds were
covered-with richly laced housings, and ornamented in every way. The
Elector Emeric Joseph, a comfortable-looking man, looked well on
horseback. Of the other two I remember less, excepting that the red
princes' mantles, trimmed with ermine, which we had been accustomed
to see only in pictures before, seemed to us very romantic in the
open air. The ambassadors of the absent temporal Electors, with their
Spanish dresses of gold brocade, embroidered over with gold, and
trimmed with gold lace, likewise did our eyes good; and the large
feathers particularly, that waved most splendidly from the hats, which
were cocked in the antique style. But what did not please me were the
short modern breeches, the white silk stockings, and the fashionable
shoes. We should have liked half-boots--gilded as much as they
pleased--sandals, or something of the kind, that we might have seen a
more consistent costume.

In deportment the Ambassador Von Plotho again distinguished himself
from all the rest. He appeared lively and cheerful, and seemed to have
no great respect for the whole ceremony. For when his front-man, an
elderly gentleman, could not leap immediately on his horse, and he was
therefore forced to wait some time in the grand entrance, he did not
refrain from laughing, till his own horse was brought forward, upon
which he swung himself very dexterously, and was again admired by us as
a most worthy representative of Frederick the Second.

Now the curtain was for us once more let down. I had indeed tried to
force my way into the church; but that place was more inconvenient than
agreeable. The voters had withdrawn into the _sanctum_, where prolix
ceremonies usurped the place of a deliberate consideration as to the
election. After long delay, pressure, and bustle, the people at last
heard the name of Joseph the Second, who was proclaimed King of Rome.

[Side-note: Approach of the Emperor and King.]

The thronging of strangers into the city became greater and greater.
Everybody went about in his holiday clothes, so that at last none but
dresses entirely of gold were found worthy of note. The Emperor and
King had already arrived at _Heusenstamm_, a castle of the Counts of
Schönborn, and were there in the customary manner greeted and welcomed;
but the city celebrated this important epoch by spiritual festivals of
all the religions, by high masses and sermons; and on the temporal side
by incessant firing of cannon as an accompaniment to the _Te Deums._

If all these public solemnities, from the beginning up to this point,
had been regarded as a deliberate work of art, not much to find fault
with would have been found. All was well prepared. The public scenes
opened gradually, and went on increasing in importance; the men grew
in number, the personages in dignity, their appurtenances, as well as
themselves, in splendour; and thus it advanced with every day, till at
last even a well-prepared and firm eye became bewildered.

The entrance of the Elector of Mentz, which we have refused to describe
more completely, was magnificent and imposing enough to suggest to
the imagination of an eminent man, the advent of a great prophesied
World-Ruler; even we were not a little dazzled by it. But now our
expectation was stretched to the utmost, as it was said that the
Emperor and the future King were approaching the city. At a little
distance from Sachsenhausen, a tent had been erected, in which the
entire magistracy remained, to show the appropriate honour, and to
proffer the keys of the city to the chief of the Empire. Further out,
on a fair spacious plain, stood another--a state pavilion, whither the
whole body of electoral princes and ambassadors repaired, while their
retinues extended along the whole way, that gradually, as their turns
came, they might again move towards the city, and enter properly into
the procession. By this time the Emperor reached the tent, entered it,
and the princes and ambassadors, after a most respectful reception,
withdrew, to facilitate the passage of the chief ruler.

[Side-note: The Imperial Carriage.]

We others who remained in the city to admire this pomp within the walls
and streets, still more than could have been done in the open fields,
were very well entertained for a while by the barricade set up by the
citizens in the lanes, by the throng of people, and by the various
jests and improprieties which arose, till the ringing of bells and the
thunder of cannon announced to us the immediate approach of Majesty.
What must have been particularly grateful to a Frankforter was, that
on this occasion, in the presence of so many sovereigns and their
representatives, the imperial city of Frankfort also appeared as a
little sovereign; for her equerry opened the procession; chargers with
armorial trappings, upon which the white eagle on a red field looked
very fine, followed him; then came attendants and officials, drummers
and trumpeters, and deputies of the council, accompanied by the clerks
of the council, in the city livery, on foot. Immediately behind these
were the three companies cf citizen cavalry, very well mounted--the
same that we had seen from our youth, at the reception of the escort
and on other public occasions. We rejoiced in our participation of
the honour, and in our hundred-thousandth part of a sovereignty which
now appeared in its full brilliancy. The different trains of the
Hereditary Imperial Marshal, and of the envoys deputed by the six
temporal Electors, marched after these step by step. None of them
consisted of less than twenty attendants, and two state-carriages--some
even of a greater number. The retinue of the spiritual Electors was
ever on the increase,--their servants and domestic officers seemed
innumerable,--the Elector of Cologne and the Elector of Treves had
above twenty state-carriages, and the Elector of Mentz quite as many
alone. The servants, both on horseback and on foot, were clothed most
splendidly throughout; the lords in the equipages, spiritual and
temporal, had not omitted to appear richly and venerably dressed, and
adorned with all the badges of their orders. The train of his Imperial
Majesty now, as was fit, surpassed all the rest. The riding-masters,
the led horses, the equipages, the shabracks and caparisons, attracted
every eye, and the sixteen six-horse gala-wagons of the Imperial
Chamberlains, Privy Councillors, High Chamberlain, High Stewards, and
High Equerry, closed, with great pomp, this division of the procession,
which, in spite of its magnificence and extent, was still only to be
the van-guard.

But now the line concentrated itself more and more, while the dignity
and parade kept on increasing. For, in the midst of a chosen escort
of their own domestic attendants, the most of them on foot, and a
few on horseback, appeared the Electoral ambassadors as well as the
Electors in person, in ascending order, each one in a magnificent
state-carriage. Immediately behind the Elector of Mentz, ten imperial
footmen, one and forty lackeys, and eight Heyducks,[4] announced
their Majesties. The most magnificent state-carriage, furnished even
at the back part with an entire window of plate-glass, ornamented
with paintings, lacker, carved work, and gilding, covered with
red embroidered velvet on the top and inside, allowed us very
conveniently to behold the Emperor and King, the long-desired heads,
in all their glory. The procession was led a long circuitous route,
partly from necessity, that it might be able to unfold itself, and
partly to render it visible to the great multitude of people. It had
passed through Sachsenhausen, over the bridge, up the Fahrgasse,
then down the Zeile, and turned towards the inner city through the
Katharinenpforte, formerly a gate, and since the enlargement of the
city, an open thoroughfare. Here it had been fortunately considered
that, for a series of years, the external grandeur of the world had
gone on expanding both in height and breadth. Measure had been taken,
and it was found that the present imperial state-carriage could not,
without striking its carved work and other outward decorations, get
through this gateway, through which so many princes and emperors had
gone backwards and forwards. The matter was debated, and to avoid an
inconvenient circuit, it was resolved to take up the pavements, and
to contrive a gentle descent and ascent. With the same new they had
also removed all the projecting eaves from the shops and booths in the
street, that neither crown, nor eagle, nor the genii should receive any
shock or injury.

Eagerly as _we_ directed our eyes to the high personages when this
precious vessel with such precious contents approached us, we could
not avoid turning our looks upon the noble horses, their harness, and
its embroidery; but the strange coachmen and outriders, both sitting
on the horses, particularly struck us. They looked as if they had
come from some other nation, or even worn another world, with their
long black and yellow velvet coats, and their caps with large plumes
of feathers, after the imperial court fashion. Now the crowd became
so dense that it was impossible to distinguish much more. The Swiss
guard on both sides of the carriage, the Hereditary Marshal holding the
Saxon sword upwards in his right hand, the Field-Marshals, as leaders
of the Imperial Guard, riding behind the carriage, the imperial pages
in a body, and finally, the Imperial Horse-guard (_Hatschiergarde_)
itself, in black velvet frocks (_Flügelröck_), with all the seams edged
with gold, under which were red coats and leather-coloured camisoles,
likewise richly decked with gold! One scarcely recovered oneself
from sheer seeing, pointing, and showing, so that the scarcely less
splendidly clad body-guards of the Electors were barely looked at,
and we should perhaps have withdrawn from the windows, if we had not
wished to take a view of our own magistracy, who closed the procession
in their fifteen two-horse coaches, and particularly the clerk of the
council, with the city keys on red velvet cushions. That our company of
city grenadiers should cover the rear, seemed to us honourable enough,
and we felt doubly and highly edified as Germans and as Frankfurters by
this great day.

[Side-note: Maria Theresa.]

We had taken our place in a house which the procession had to pass
again when it returned from the cathedral. Of religious services,
of music, of rites and solemnities, of addresses and answers, of
propositions and readings aloud, there was so much in church, choir,
and conclave, before it came to the swearing of the electoral
capitulation, that we had time enough to partake of an excellent
collation, and to empty many bottles to the health of our old and
young ruler. The conversation, in the meanwhile, as is usual on such
occasions, reverted to the time past, and there were not wanting aged
persons who preferred that to the present, at least with respect to a
certain human interest and impassioned sympathy which then prevailed.
At the coronation of Francis the First all had not been so settled
as now; peace had not yet been concluded; France and the Electors of
Brandenburg and the Palatinate were opposed to the election; the
troops of the future emperor were stationed at Heidelberg, where he
had his head-quarters, and the insignia of the Empire coming from Aix,
were almost carried off by the inhabitants of the Palatinate. Meanwhile
negotiations went on, and on neither side was the affair conducted in
the strictest manner. MARIA THERESA, though then pregnant, comes in
person to see the coronation of her husband, which is at last carried
into effect. She arrived at Aschaffenburg, and went on board a yacht
in order to repair to Frankfort. Francis, from Heidelberg, thinks to
meet his wife, but comes too late; she has already departed. Unknown,
he throws himself into a little boat, hastens after her, reaches her
ship, and the loving pair is delighted at this surprising meeting. The
story spreads immediately, and all the world sympathizes with this
tender pair, so richly blessed with their children, who have been so
inseparable since their union, that once on a journey from Vienna to
Florence they are forced to keep quarantine together on the Venetian
border. Maria Theresa is welcomed in the city with rejoicings, she
enters the _Roman Emperor_ inn, while the great tent for the reception
of her husband is erected on the Bornheim heath. There of the spiritual
Electors is found only Mentz, and of the ambassadors of the temporal
Electors, only Saxony, Bohemia, and Hanover. The entrance begins, and
what it may lack of completeness and splendour is richly compensated
by the presence of a beautiful lady. She stands upon the balcony of
the well-situated house, and greets her husband with cries of _Vivat_
and clapping of hands; the people joined, excited to the highest
enthusiasm. As the great are, after all, men, the citizen thinks them
his equals when he wishes to love them, and that he can best do when he
can picture them to himself as loving husbands, tender parents, devoted
brothers, and true friends. At that time all happiness had been wished
and prophesied, and to-day it was seen fulfilled in the first-born son;
to whom everybody was well inclined on account of his handsome youthful
form, and upon whom the world set the greatest hopes, on account of the
great qualities that he showed.

We had become quite absorbed in the past and future, when some friends
who came in recalled us to the present. They were of those who know the
value of novelty, and therefore hasten to announce it first. They were
even able to tell of a fine humane trait in those exalted personages
whom we had seen go by with the greatest pomp. It had been concerted
that on the way, between Heusenstamm and the great tent, the Emperor
and King should find the Landgrave of Darmstadt in the forest. This
old prince, now approaching the grave, wished to see once more the
master to whom he had been devoted in former times. Both might remember
the day when the Landgrave brought over to Heidelberg the decree of
the Electors choosing Francis as Emperor, and replied to the valuable
presents he received with protestations of unalterable devotion.
These eminent persons stood in a grove of firs, and the Landgrave,
weak with old age, supported himself against a pine, to continue the
conversation, which was not without emotion on both sides. The place
was afterwards marked in an innocent way, and we young people sometimes
wandered to it.

Thus several hours had passed in remembrance of the old and
consideration of the new, when the procession, though curtailed and
more compact, again passed before our eyes, and we were enabled to
observe and mark the detail more closely, and imprint it on our minds
for the future.

From that moment the city was in uninterrupted motion; for until each
and every one whom it behoved, and of whom it was required, had paid
their respects to the highest dignities, and exhibited themselves one
by one, there was no end to the marching to and fro, and the court
of each one of the high persons present could be very conveniently
repeated in detail.

Now, too, the insignia of the Empire arrived. But that no ancient usage
might be omitted even in this respect, they had to remain half a day
till late at night in the open field, on recount of a dispute about
territory and escort between the Elector of Mentz and the city. The
latter yielded, the people of Mentz escorted the insignia as far as the
barricade, and so the affair terminated for this time.

[Side-note: At Evening with Gretchen.]

In these days I did not come to myself. At home I had to write and
copy; everything had to be seen; and so ended the month of March,
the second half of which had been so rich in festivals for us. I had
promised Gretchen a faithful and complete account of what had lately
happened, and of what was to be expected on the coronation-day. This
great day approached; I thought more how I should tell it to her than
of what properly was to be told; all that came under my eyes and my
pen I merely worked up rapidly for this sole and immediate use. At
last I reached her residence somewhat late one evening, and was not
a little proud to think how my discourse on this occasion would be
much more successful than the first unprepared one. But a momentary
incitement often brings us, and others through us, more joy than the
most deliberate purpose can afford; I found, indeed, pretty nearly the
same company, but there were some unknown persons among them. They sat
down to play, all except Gretchen and her younger cousin, who remained
with me at the slate. The dear girl expressed most gracefully her
delight that she, though a stranger, had passed for a citizen on the
election-day, and had taken part in that unique spectacle. She thanked
me most warmly for having managed to take care of her, and for having
been so attentive as to procure her, through Pylades, all sorts of
admissions by means of billets, directions, friends, and intercessions.

She liked to hear about the jewels of the Empire. I promised her that
we should, if possible, see these together. She made some jesting
remarks when she learned that the garments and crown had been tried
on the young king. I knew where she would gaze at the solemnities of
the coronation-day, and directed her attention to everything that was
impending, and particularly to what might be minutely inspected from
her place of view.

Thus we forgot to think about time; it was already past midnight; and I
found that I unfortunately had not the house-key with me. I could not
enter the house without making the greatest disturbance. I communicated
my embarrassment to her. "After all," said she, "it will be best for
the company to remain together." The cousins and the strangers had
already had this in mind, because it was not known where they would be
lodged for the night. The matter was soon decided; Gretchen went to
make some coffee, after bringing in and lighting a large brass lamp,
furnished with oil and wick, because the candles threatened to burn out.

The coffee served to enliven us for several hours, but the game
gradually slackened; conversation failed; the mother slept in the great
chair; the strangers, weary from travelling, nodded here and there, and
Pylades and his fair one sat in a corner. She had laid her head on his
shoulder and had gone to sleep, and he did not keep long awake. The
younger cousin sitting opposite to us by the slate, had crossed his
arms before him, and slept with his face resting upon them. I sat in
the window-corner, behind the table, and Gretchen by me. We talked in
a low voice: but at last sleep overcame her also, she leaned her head
on my shoulder, and sank at once into a slumber. Thus I now sat, the
only one awake, in a most singular position, in which the kind brother
of death soon put me also to rest. I went to sleep, and when I awoke
it was already bright day. Gretchen was standing before the mirror
arranging her little cap; she was more lovely than ever, and when I
departed cordially pressed my hands. I crept home by a roundabout way;
for, on the side towards the little _Stag-ditch_, my father had opened
a sort of little peep-hole in the wall, not without the opposition of
his neighbour. This side we avoided when we wanted not to be observed
by him in coming home. My mother, whose mediation always came in
well for us, had endeavoured to palliate my absence in the morning
at breakfast, by the supposition that I had gone out early, and I
experienced no disagreeable effects from this innocent night.

Taken as a whole, this infinitely various world which surrounded me,
produced upon me but a very simple impression. I had no interest but
to mark closely the outside of the objects, no business but that
with which I had been charged by my father and Herr von Königsthal,
by which, indeed, I perceived the inner course of things. I had no
liking but for Gretchen, and no other view than to see and apprehend
all properly, that I might be able to repeat it with her, and explain
it to her. Often when a train was going by, I described it half aloud
to myself, to assure myself of all the particulars, and to be praised
by my fair one for this attention and accuracy; the applause and
acknowledgments of the others I regarded as a mere appendix.

I was indeed presented to many exalted and distinguished persons; but
partly, no one had time to trouble himself about others, and partly,
older people do not know at once how they should converse with a young
man and try him. I, on my side, was likewise not particularly skilful
in adapting myself to people. Generally I acquired their favour, but
not their approbation. Whatever occupied me was completely present to
me; but I did not ask whether it might be also suitable t others. I
was mostly too lively or too quiet, and appeared either importunate
or sullen, just as persons attracted or repelled me; and thus I was
considered to be indeed full of promise, but at the same time was
declared eccentric.

[Side-note: The Coronation-Day.]

The coronation-day dawned at last, on the 3rd of April, 1764; the
weather was favourable, and everybody was in motion. I, with several of
my relations and friends, had been provided with a good place in one of
the upper stories of the Römer itself, where we might completely survey
the whole. We betook ourselves to the spot very early in the morning,
and from above, as in a bird's-eye view, contemplated the arrangements
which we had inspected more closely the day before. There was the
newly-erected fountain, with two large tubs on the left and right, into
which the double-eagle on the post was to pour from its two beaks white
wine on this side and red wine on that. There, gathered into a heap,
lay the oats; here stood the large wooden hut, in which we had several
days since seen the whole fat ox roasted and basted on a huge spit
before a charcoal fire. All the avenues leading out from the Römer,
and from other streets back to the Römer, were secured on both sides
by barriers and guards. The great square was gradually filled, and the
waving and pressure grew every moment stronger and more in motion, as
the multitude always, if possible, endeavoured to reach the spot where
some new scene arose, and something particular was announced.

All this time there reigned a tolerable stillness, and when the
alarm-bells were sounded, all the people seemed struck with terror
and amazement. What first attracted the attention of all who could
overlook the square from above, was the train in which the lords of
Aix and Nuremberg brought the crown-jewels to the cathedral. These, as
palladia, had been assigned the first place in the carnage, and the
deputies sat before them on the back seat with becoming reverence.
Now the three Electors betake themselves to the cathedral. After the
presentation of the insignia to the Elector of Mentz, the crown and
sword are immediately carried to the imperial quarters. The further
arrangements and manifold ceremonies occupied, in the interim, the
chief persons, as well as the spectators, in the church, as we other
well-informed persons could well imagine.

In the meanwhile before our eyes the ambassadors ascended to the
Römer, from which, the canopy is carried by the under-officers into
the imperial quarters. The Hereditary Marshal COUNT VON PAPPENHEIM
instantly mounts his horse; he was a very handsome, slender gentleman,
whom the Spanish costume, the rich doublet, the gold mantle, the
high feathered hat, and the loose flying hair, became very well. He
puts himself in motion, and, amid the sound of all the bells, the
ambassadors follow him on horseback to the quarters of the Emperor
in still greater magnificence than on the day of election. One would
have liked to be there too, as indeed on this day it would have been
altogether desirable to multiply one's-self. However, we told each
other what was going on there. Now the Emperor is putting on his
domestic robes, we said, a new dress, made after the old Carolingian
pattern. The hereditary officers receive the insignia, and with them
get on horseback. The Emperor in his robes, the Roman King in the
Spanish habit, immediately mount their steeds; and while this is done,
the endless procession which precedes them has already announced them.

The eye was already wearied by the multitude of richly-dressed
attendants and magistrates, and by the nobility who, in stately
fashion, were moving along; but when the Electoral envoys, the
hereditary officers, and at last, under the richly-embroidered canopy,
borne by twelve _Schöffen_ and senators, the Emperor, in romantic
costume, and to the left, a little behind him, in the Spanish dress,
his son, slowly floated along on magnificently-adorned horses, the eye
was no more sufficient for the sight. One would have liked to detain
the scene, but for a moment, by a magic charm; but the glory passed
on without stopping, and the space that was scarcely quitted was
immediately filled again by the crowd, which poured in like billows.

But now a new pressure took place; for another approach from the market
to the Römer gate had to be opened, and a road of planks to be bridged
over it, on which the train returning from the cathedral was to walk.

What passed within the cathedral, the endless ceremonies which
precede and accompany the anointing, the crowning, the dubbing of
knighthood,--all this we were glad to hear told afterwards by those who
had sacrificed much else to be present in the church.

The rest of us, in the interim, partook of a frugal repast; for in
this festal day we had to be contented with cold meat. But, on the
other hand, the best and oldest wine had beer brought out of all the
family-cellars, so that in this respect at least we celebrated the
ancient festival in ancient style.

In the square, the sight most worth seeing was now the bridge, which
had been finished, and covered with orange and white cloth; and we who
had stared at the Emperor, first in his carriage and then on horseback,
were now to admire him walking on foot. Singularly enough, the last
pleased us the most; for we thought that in this way he exhibited
himself both in the most natural and in the most dignified manner.

Older persons, who were present at the coronation of Francis the First,
related that Maria Theresa, beautiful beyond measure, had looked on
this solemnity from a balcony window of the Frauenstein house, close to
the Römer. As her consort returned from the cathedral in his strange
costume, and seemed to her, so to speak, like a ghost of Charlemagne,
he had, as if in jest, raised both his hands, and shown her the
imperial globe, the sceptre, and the curious gloves, at which she had
broken out into immoderate laughter, which served for the great delight
and edification of the crowd, which was thus honoured with a sight of
the good and natural matrimonial understanding between the most exalted
couple of Christendom. But when the Empress, to greet her consort,
waved her handkerchief, and even shouted a loud _vivat_ to him, the
enthusiasm and exultation of the people was raised to the highest, so
that there was no end to the cheers of joy.

[Side-note: The Coronation Procession.]

Now, the sound of bells, and the van of the long train which gently
made its way over the many-coloured bridge, announced that all was
done. The attention was greater than ever, and the procession more
distinct than before, particularly for us, since it now came directly
up to us. We saw it, as well as the whole of the square, which was
thronged with people, almost as if on a ground-plan. Only at the end
the magnificence was too much crowded; for the envoys, the hereditary
officers, the Emperor and King, under the canopy (_Baldachin_), the
three spiritual Electors, who immediately followed, the Schöffen
and senators, dressed in black, the gold embroidered canopy
(_Himmel_),--all seemed only one mass, which moved by a single will,
splendidly harmonious, and thus stepping from the temple amid the sound
of the bells, beamed towards us as something holy.

A politico-religious ceremony possesses an infinite charm. We behold
earthly majesty before our eyes, surrounded by all the symbols of its
power; but while it bends before that of heaven, it brings to our minds
the communion of both. For even the individual can only prove his
relationship with the Deity by subjecting himself and adoring.

The rejoicings, which resounded from the market-place, now spread
likewise over the great square, and a boisterous _vivat_ burst forth
from thousands upon thousands of throats, and doubtless from as many
hearts. For this grand festival was to be the pledge of a lasting
peace, which indeed for many a long year actually blessed Germany.

Several days before, it had been made known by public proclamation,
that neither the bridge nor the eagle over the fountain were to be
exposed to the people, and were therefore not, as at other times, to be
touched. This was done to prevent the mischief inevitable with such a
rush of persons. But in order to sacrifice in some degree to the genius
of the mob, persons expressly appointed went behind the procession,
loosened the cloth from the bridge, wound it up like a flag, and threw
it into the air. This gave rise to no disaster, but to a laughable
mishap; for the cloth unrolled itself in the air, and, as it fell,
covered a larger or smaller number of persons. Those now who took hold
of the ends and drew them towards themselves, pulled all those in the
middle to the ground, enveloped them and teased them till they tore or
cut themselves through, and everybody, in his own way, had borne off a
corner of the stuff made sacred by the footsteps of Majesty.

I did not long contemplate this rude sport, but hastened from my high
position, through all sorts of little steps and passages, down to the
great Römer stairs, where the distinguished and majestic mass, which
had been stared at from the distance, was to ascend in its undulating
course. The crowd was not great, because the entrances to the
council-house were well garrisoned, and I fortunately reached at once
the iron balustrades above. Now the chief personages ascended past me,
while their followers remained behind in the lower arched passages, and
I could observe them on the thrice broken stairs from all sides, and at
last quite close.

[Side-note: Coronation Ceremonies.]

Finally both their Majesties came up. Father and son were altogether
dressed like Menæchmi. The Emperor's domestic robes, of purple-coloured
silk, richly adorned with pearls and stones, as well as his crown,
sceptre, and imperial orb, struck the eye with good effect. For all in
them was new, and the imitation of the antique was tasteful. He moved,
too, quite easily in his attire, and his true-hearted, dignified face,
indicated at once the emperor and the father. The young King, on the
contrary, in his monstrous articles of dress, with the crown-jewels of
Charlemagne, dragged himself along as if he had been in a disguise,
so that he himself, looking at his father from time to time, could
not refrain from laughing. The crown, which it had been necessary to
line a great deal, stood out from his head like an overhanging roof.
The dalmatica, the stole, well as they had been fitted and taken in by
sewing, presented by no means an advantageous appearance. The sceptre
and imperial orb excited some admiration; but one would, for the sake
of a more princely effect, rather have seen a strong form, suited to
the dress, invested and adorned with it.

Scarcely were the gates of the great hall closed behind these figures,
than I hurried to my former place, which being already occupied by
others, I only regained with some trouble.

It was precisely at the right time that I again took possession of my
window; for the most remarkable part of all that was to be seen in
public was just about to take place. All the people had turned towards
the Römer, and a reiterated shout of _vivat_ gave us to understand
that the Emperor and King, in their vestments, were showing themselves
to the populace from the balcony of the great hall. But they were not
alone to serve as a spectacle, since another strange spectacle occurred
before their eyes. First of all, the handsome slender Hereditary
Marshal flung himself upon his steed; he had laid aside his sword;
in his right hand he held a silver-handled vessel, and a tin spatula
in his left. He rode within the barriers to the great heap of oats,
sprang in, filled the vessel to overflow, smoothed it off, and carried
it back again with great dignity. The imperial stable was now provided
for. The Hereditary Chamberlain then rode likewise to the spot, and
brought back a basin with ewer and towel. But more entertaining for
the spectators was the Hereditary Carver, who came to fetch a piece
of the roasted ox. He also rode, with a silver dish, through the
barriers, to the large wooden kitchen, and came forth again with his
portion covered, that he might go back to the Römer. Now it was the
turn of the Hereditary Cupbearer, who rode to the fountain and fetched
wine. Thus now was the imperial table furnished, and every eye waited
upon the Hereditary Treasurer, who was to throw about the money. He,
too, mounted a fine steed, to the sides of whose saddle, instead of
holsters, a couple of splendid bags embroidered with the arms of the
Palatinate, were suspended. Scarcely had he put himself in motion than
he plunged his hands into these pockets, and generously scattered right
and left gold and silver coins, which on every occasion glittered
merrily in the air like metallic rain. A thousand hands waved instantly
in the air to catch the gifts; but hardly had the coins fallen than the
crowd tumbled over each other on the ground, and struggled violently
for the pieces which might have reached the earth. As this agitation
was constantly repeated on both sides as the giver rode forwards, it
afforded the spectators a very diverting sight. It was most lively at
the close, when he threw out the bags themselves, and everybody tried
to catch this highest prize.

Their Majesties had retired from the balcony, and another offering
was to be made to the mob, who, on such occasions, would rather steal
the gifts than receive them tranquilly and gratefully. The custom
prevailed, in more rude and uncouth times, of giving up to the people
on the spot the oats, as soon as the Hereditary Marshal had taken away
his share, the fountain and the kitchen, after the cup-bearer and the
carver had performed their offices. But this time, to guard against all
mischief, order and moderation were preserved as far as possible. But
the old malicious jokes, that when one filled a sack with oats another
cut a hole in it, with sallies of the kind, were revived. About the
roasted ox, a serious battle on this occasion, as usual, was waged.
This could only be contested _en masse._ Two guilds, the butchers and
the wine-porters, had, according to ancient custom, again stationed
themselves so that the monstrous roast must fall to one of the two.
The butchers believed that they had the best right to an ox which they
provided entire for the kitchen; the wine-porters, on the other hand,
laid claim because the kitchen was built near the abode of their
guild, and because they had gained the victory the last time, the horns
of the captured steer still projecting from the latticed gable-window
of their guild and meeting-house as a sign of victory. Both these
companies had very strong and able members; but which of them conquered
this time, I no longer remember.

[Side-note: The Ox and The Wooden Kitchen.]

But as a festival of this kind must always close with something
dangerous and frightful, it was really a terrible moment when the
wooden kitchen itself was made a prize. The roof of it swarmed
instantly with men, no one knowing how they got there, the boards were
torn loose, and pitched down, so that one could not help supposing,
particularly at a distance, that each would kill a few of those
pressing to the spot. In a trice the hut was unroofed, and single
individuals hung to the beams and rafters, in order to pull them also
out of their joinings; nay, many floated above upon the posts which had
been already sawn off below, and the whole skeleton, moving backwards
and forwards, threatened to fall in. Sensitive persons turned their
eyes away, and everybody expected a great calamity; but we did not hear
of any mischief, and the whole affair, though impetuous and violent,
had passed off happily.

Everybody knew now that the Emperor and King would return from the
cabinet, whither they had retired from the balcony, and feast in the
great hall of the Römer. We had been able to admire the arrangements
made for it, the day before; and my most anxious wish was, if possible,
to look in to-day. I repaired, therefore, by the usual path, to the
great staircase, which stands directly opposite the door of the hall.
Here I, gazed at the distinguished personages who this day acted as the
servants of the head of the Empire. Forty-four counts, all splendidly
dressed, passed me, carrying the dishes from the kitchen, so that the
contrast between their dignity and their occupation might well be
bewildering to a boy. The crowd was not great, but, considering the
little space, sufficiently perceptible. The hall-door was guarded,
while those who were authorised went frequently in and out. I saw one
of the Palatine domestic officials, whom I asked whether he could not
take me in with him. He did not deliberate long, but gave me one of the
silver vessels he just then bore,--which he could do so much the more
as I was neatly clad; and thus I reached the sanctuary. The Palatine
buffet stood to the left, directly by the door, and with some steps I
placed myself on the elevation of it, behind the barriers.

At the other end of the hall, immediately by the windows, raised on
the steps of the throne, and under canopies, sat the Emperor and King
in their robes; but the crown and sceptre lay at some distance behind
them on gold cushions. The three spiritual Electors, their buffets
behind them, had taken their places on single elevations; the Elector
of Mentz opposite their Majesties, the Elector of Treves at the right,
and the Elector of Cologne at the left. This upper part of the hall
was imposing and cheerful to behold, and excited the remark that the
spiritual power likes to keep as long as possible with the ruler. On
the contrary, the buffets and tables of all the temporal Electors,
which were, indeed, magnificently ornamented, but without occupants,
made one think of the misunderstanding which had gradually arisen for
centuries between them and the head of the Empire. Their ambassadors
had already withdrawn to eat in a side-chamber; and if the greater part
of the hall assumed a sort of spectral appearance, by so many invisible
guests being so magnificently attended, a large unfurnished table in
the middle was still more sad to look upon; for there also many covers
stood empty, because all those who had certainly a right to sit there
had, for appearance sake, kept away, that on the greatest day of honour
they might not renounce any of their honour, if, indeed, they were then
to be found in the city.

Neither my years nor the mass of present objects allowed me to make
many reflections. I strove to see all as much as possible; and when
the dessert was brought in and the ambassadors re-entered to pay their
court, I sought the open air, and contrived to refresh myself with
good friends in the neighbourhood, after a day's half-fasting, and to
prepare for the illumination in the evening.

[Side-note: The Illuminations.]

This brilliant night I purposed celebrating in a right hearty way;
for I had agreed with Gretchen, and Pylades and his mistress, that we
should meet somewhere at nightfall. The city was already resplendent at
every end and corner when I met my beloved. I offered Gretchen my arm;
we went from one quarter to another, and found ourselves very happy in
each other's society. The cousins at first were also of out party, but
were afterwards lost in the multitude of people. Before the houses of
some of the ambassadors, where magnificent illuminations were exhibited
(those of the Elector-Palatine were pre-eminently distinguished), it
was as clear as day. Lest I should be recognised, I had disguised
myself to a certain extent, and Gretchen did not find it amiss. We
admired the various brilliant representations and the fairy-like
structures of flame by which each ambassador strove to outshine the
others. But Prince Esterhazy's arrangements surpassed all the rest.
Our little company were in raptures both with the invention and the
execution, and we were just about to enjoy this in detail, when the
cousins again met us, and spoke to us of the glorious illumination with
which the Brandenburg ambassador had adorned his quarters. We were not
displeased at taking the long way from the Rossmarkt (Horse-market) to
the Saalhof; but found that we had been villanously hoaxed.

The Saalhof is, towards the Maine, a regular and handsome structure,
but the part in the direction of the city is exceedingly old,
irregular, and unsightly. Small windows, agreeing neither in form nor
size, neither in a line nor placed at equal distances, gates and doors
arranged without symmetry, a ground-floor mostly turned into shops,--it
forms a confused outside, which is never observed by any one. Now here
this accidental, irregular, unconnected architecture had been followed,
and every window, every door, every opening, was surrounded by lamps;
as indeed can be done with a well-built house; but here the most
wretched and ill-formed of all façades was thus quite incredibly placed
in the clearest light. Did one amuse oneself with this as with the
jests of the Pagliasso,[5] though not without scruple, since everybody
must recognise something intentional in it;--just as people had before
glossed over the previous external deportment of Von Plotho, so much
prized in other respects, and when once inclined towards him, had
admired him as a wag, who, like his king, would place himself above all
ceremonies--one nevertheless gladly returned to the fairy kingdom of
Esterhazy.

This eminent envoy, to honour the day, had quite passed over his own
unfavourably situated quarters, and in their stead bad caused the
great esplanade of linden-trees in the Horse-market to be decorated
in the front with a portal illuminated with colours, and at the back
with a still more magnificent prospect. The entire enclosure was marked
by lamps. Between the trees stood pyramids and spheres of light,
upon transparent pedestals; from one tree to another were stretched
glittering garlands, on which floated suspended lights. In several
places bread and sausages were distributed among the people, and there
was no want of wine.

Here now, four abreast, we walked very comfortably up and down, and
I, by Gretchen's side, fancied that I really wandered in those happy
Elysian fields where they pluck from the trees crystal cups that
immediately fill themselves with the wine desired, and shake down
fruits that change into every dish at will. At last we also felt such
a necessity, and conducted by Pylades, we found a neat, well-arranged
eating-house. When we encountered no more guests, since everybody was
going about the streets, we were all the better pleased, and passed the
greatest part of the night most happily and cheerfully, in the feeling
of friendship, love, and attachment. When I had accompanied Gretchen as
far as her door, she kissed me on the forehead. It was the first and
last time that she granted me this favour; for, alas, I was not to see
her again.

The next morning, while I was yet in bed, my mother entered, in trouble
and anxiety. It was easy to see when she was at all distressed. "Get
up," she said, "and prepare yourself for something unpleasant. It
has come out that you frequent very bad company, and have involved
yourself in very dangerous and bad affairs. Your father is beside
himself, and we have only been able to get thus much from him, that
he will investigate the affair by means of a third party. Remain in
your chamber and await what may happen. Councillor Schneider will
come to you; he has the commission both from your father and from the
authorities; for the matter is already prosecuted, and may take a very
bad turn."

[Side-note: Goethe in Trouble.]

I saw that they took the affair for much worse than it was; yet I felt
myself not a little disquieted, even if only the actual state of things
should be detected. My old _Messiah_-loving friend finally entered,
with the tears standing in his eyes; he took me by the arm, and said,
"I am heartily sorry to come to you on such an affair. I could not
have supposed that you could go astray so far. But what will not wicked
companions and bad example do! Thus can a young inexperienced man be
led step by step into crime!" "I am conscious of no crime," I replied,
"and as little of having frequented bad company." "The question now is
not one of defence," said he, interrupting me, "but of investigation,
and on your part of an upright confession" "What do you want to know?"
retorted I. He seated himself, drew out a paper, and began to question
me: "Have you not recommended N. N. to your grandfather as a candidate
for the * * place?" I answered, "Yes." "Where did you become acquainted
with him?" "In my walks." "In what company?" I started: for I would not
willingly betray my friends. "Silence will not do now," he continued,
"for all is sufficiently known." "What is known then?" said I. "That
this man has been introduced to you by others like him--in fact, by * *
*." Here he named three persons whom I had never seen nor known: which
I immediately explained to the questioner. "You pretend," he resumed,
"not to know these men, and have yet had frequent meetings with them."
"Not in the least," I replied; "for, as I have said, except the first,
I do not know one of them, and even him I have never seen in a house."
"Have you not often been in * * * street?" "Never," I replied. This was
not entirely conformable to the truth. I had once accompanied Pylades
to his sweetheart, who lived in that street; but we had entered by the
back-door, and remained in the summer-house. I therefore supposed that
I might permit myself the subterfuge, that I had not been in the street
itself.

The good man put more questions, all of which I could answer with a
denial: for of all that he wished to learn I knew nothing. At last
he seemed to become vexed, and said, "You repay my confidence and
good-will very badly; I come to save you. You cannot deny that you have
composed letters for these people themselves or for their accomplices,
have furnished them writings, and have thus been accessory to their
evil acts, for the question is of nothing less than of forged papers,
false wills, counterfeit bonds, and things of the sort. I come not
only as a friend of the family, I come in the name and by order of
the magistrates, who, in consideration of your connexions and youth,
would spare you and some other young persons, who, like you, have
been lured into the net." It was strange to me that among the persons
he named, none of those with whom I had been intimate were found. The
circumstances touched, without agreeing, and I could still hope to save
my young friends. But the good man grew more and more urgent. I could
not deny that I had come home late many nights, that I had contrived
to have a house-key made, that I had been seen at public places more
than once with persons of low rank and suspicious looks, that some
girls were mixed up in the affair; in short, everything seemed to be
discovered but the names. This gave me courage to persist steadfastly
in my silence. "Do not," said my excellent friend, "let me go away from
you; the affair allows of no delay; immediately after me another will
come, who will not grant you so much scope. Do not make the matter,
which is bad enough, worse by your obstinacy."

I represented very vividly to myself the good cousins, and particularly
Gretchen: I saw them arrested, tried, punished, disgraced, and then
it went through my soul like a flash of lightning, that the cousins,
though they always observed integrity towards me, might have engaged
in such bad affairs, at least the oldest, who never quite pleased me,
who came home later and later, and had little to tell of a cheerful
sort. Still I kept back my confession. "Personally," said I, "I am
conscious of nothing evil, and can rest satisfied on that side, but
it is not impossible that those with whom I have associated may have
been guilty of some daring or illegal act. They may be sought, found,
convicted, punished; I have hitherto nothing to reproach myself with;
and will not do any wrong to those who have behaved well and kindly
to me." He did not let me finish, but exclaimed with some agitation,
"Yes, they will be found out. These villains met in three houses. (He
named the streets, he pointed out the houses, and, unfortunately, among
them was the one to which I used to go.) The first nest is already
broken up, and at this moment so are the two others. In a few hours the
whole will be clear. Avoid, by a flunk confession, a judicial inquiry,
a confrontation, and all other disagreeable matters." The house was
known and marked. Now I deemed silence useless; nay, considering the
innocence of our meetings, I could hope to be still more useful to them
than to myself. "Sit down," I exclaimed, fetching him back from the
door; "I will tell all, and at once lighten your heart and mine; only
one thing I ask; henceforth let there be no doubt of my veracity."

[Side-note: Goethe's Distress.]

I soon told my friend the whole progress of the affair, and was, at
first, calm and collected; but the more I brought to mind and pictured
to myself the persons, objects, and events, so many innocent pleasures
and charming enjoyments, and was forced to depose as before a criminal
court, the more did the most painful feeling increase, so that at last
I burst forth in tears and gave myself up to unrestrained passion. The
family friend, who hoped that now the real secret was coming to light
(for he regarded my distress as a symptom that I was on the point of
confessing with repugnance something monstrous), sought to pacify me,
as with him the discovery was the all-important matter. In this he only
partly succeeded, but so far, however, that I could eke out my story to
the end. Though satisfied of the innocence of the proceedings, he was
still doubtful to some extent, and put further questions to me, which
excited me afresh, and transported me with pain and rage. I asserted,
finally, that I had nothing more to say, and well knew that I need fear
nothing, for I was innocent, of a good family, and well reputed; but
that they might be just as guiltless without having it recognised, or
being otherwise favoured. I declared at the same time, that if they
were not spared like myself, that if their follies were not regarded
with indulgence, and their faults pardoned, that if anything in the
least harsh or unjust happened to them, I would do myself a mischief,
and no one should prevent me. In this, too, my friend tried to pacify
me; but I did not trust him, and was, when he quitted me at last, in
a most terrible state. I now reproached myself for having told the
affair, and brought all the positions to light. I foresaw that our
childish actions, our youthful inclinations and confidences, might be
quite differently interpreted, and that I might perhaps involve the
excellent Pylades in the matter, and render him very unhappy. All these
images pressed vividly one after the other before my soul, sharpened
and spurred my distress, so that I did not know what to do for sorrow.
I cast myself at full length upon the floor, and moistened it with my
tears.

I know not how long I might have lain, when my sister entered, was
frightened at my gestures, and did all that she could to raise me up.
She told me that a person connected with the magistracy had waited
below with my father for the return of the family friend, and that
after they had been closeted together for some time, both the gentlemen
had departed, had talked to each other with apparent satisfaction, and
had even laughed. She believed that she had heard the words--"It is all
right; the affair-is of no consequence." "Indeed!" I broke out, "the
affair is of no consequence for me,--for us; for I have committed no
crime, and if I had, they would contrive to help me through: but the
others, the others," I cried, "who will stand by them!"

My sister tried to comfort me by circumstantially arguing that if those
of higher rank were to be saved, a veil must also be cast over the
faults of the more lowly. All this was of no avail. She had scarcely
left than I again abandoned myself to my grief, and ever recalled
alternately the images both of my affection and passion and of the
present and possible misfortune. I repeated to myself tale after
tale, saw only unhappiness following unhappiness, and did not fail in
particular to make Gretchen and myself truly wretched.

The family friend had ordered me to remain in my room, and have nothing
to do with any one but the family. This was just what I wanted, for I
found myself best alone. My mother and sister visited me from time to
time, and did not fail to assist me vigorously with all sorts of good
consolation; nay, even on the second day they came in the name of my
father, who was now better informed, to offer me a perfect amnesty,
which indeed I gratefully accepted; but the proposal that I should go
out with him and look at the insignia of the Empire, which were now
exposed to the curious, I stubbornly rejected, and I asserted that I
wanted to know nothing either of the world or of the Roman Empire till
I was informed how that distressing affair, which for me could have no
further consequences, had turned out for my poor acquaintance. They
had nothing to say on this head, and left me alone. Yet the next day
some further attempts were made to get me out of the house and excite
in me a sympathy for the public ceremonies. In vain! neither the great
gala-day, nor what happened on the occasion of so many elevations of
rank, nor the public table of the Emperor and King,--in short, nothing
could move me. The Elector of the Palatinate might come and wait
on both their Majesties; these might visit the Electors; the last
electoral sitting might be attended for the despatch of business in
arrear, and the renewal of the electoral union;--nothing could call
me forth from my passionate solitude. I let the bells ring for the
rejoicings, the Emperor repair to the Capuchin church, the Electors
and Emperor depart, without on that account moving one step from my
chamber. The final cannonading, immoderate as it might be, did not
arouse me, and as the smoke of the powder dispersed, and the sound died
away, so had all this glory vanished from my soul.

[Side-note: Goethe's illness.]

I now experienced no satisfaction but in chewing the cud of my misery,
and in a thousandfold imaginary multiplication of it. My whole
inventive faculty, my poetry and rhetoric, had cast themselves on this
diseased spot, and threatened, precisely by means of this vitality, to
involve body and soul into an incurable disorder. In this melancholy
condition nothing more seemed to me worth a desire, nothing worth a
wish. An infinite yearning, indeed, seized me at times to know how it
had gone with my poor friends and my beloved, what had been the result
of a stricter scrutiny, how far they were implicated in those crimes,
or had been found guiltless. This also I circumstantially painted to
myself in the most various ways, and did not fail to hold them as
innocent and truly unfortunate. Sometimes I longed to see myself freed
from this uncertainty, and wrote vehemently threatening letters to
the family friend, insisting that he should not withhold from me the
further progress of the affair. Sometimes I tore them up again, from
the fear of learning my unhappiness quite distinctly, and of losing the
principal consolation with which hitherto I had alternately tormented
and supported myself.

Thus I passed both day and night in great disquiet, in raving and
lassitude, so that I felt happy at last when a bodily illness seized
me with considerable violence, when they had to call in the help of
a physician, and think of every way to quiet me. They supposed that
they could do it generally by the sacred assurance that all who were
more or less involved in the guilt had been treated with the greatest
forbearance, that my nearest friends, being as good as innocent, had
been dismissed with a slight reprimand, and that Gretchen had retired
from the city and had returned to her own home. They lingered the
most over this last point, and I did not take it in the best part;
for I could discover in it, not a voluntary departure, but only a
shameful banishment. My bodily and mental condition was not improved
by this; my distress now first really began, and I had time enough to
torment myself by picturing the strangest romance of sad events, and an
inevitably tragical catastrophe.


[1] The diminutive of Margaret.--_Trans._

[2] That is to say, a poem written for a certain
occasion, as a wedding, funeral, &c. The German word is
"_Gelegenheitsgedicht._"--_Trans._

[3] The "_new_ Abelard" is St. Preux, in the _Nouvelle Heloise_ of
Rosseau.--_Trans._

[4] A class of attendants dressed in Hungarian costume.--_Trans._

[5] A sort of buffoon.




PART THE SECOND.


WHATEVER ONE WISHES IN YOUTH: IN AGE ONE HAS ABUNDANCE.


SIXTH BOOK.


Thus was I driven alternately to assist and to retard my recovery,
and a certain secret chagrin was now added to my other sensations;
for I plainly perceived that I was watched,--that they were loth
to hand me any sealed paper without taking notice what effect it
produced--whether I kept it secret--whether I laid it down open, and
the like. I therefore conjectured that Pylades, or one of the cousins,
or even Gretchen herself, might have attempted to write to me, either
to give or to obtain information. In addition to my sorrow, I was now
for the first time thoroughly cross, and had again fresh opportunities
to exercise my conjectures, and to mislead myself into the strangest
combinations.

It was not long before they gave me a special overseer. Fortunately,
it was a man whom I loved and valued. He had held the place of tutor
in the family of one of our friends; and his former pupil had gone
alone to the university. He often visited me in my sad condition, and
they at last found nothing more natural than to give him a chamber
next to mine, as he was then to employ me, pacify me, and, as I
marked, keep his eye upon me. Still, as I esteemed him from my heart,
and had already confided many things to him, though not my affection
for Gretchen, I determined so much the more to be perfectly candid
and straightforward with him, as it was intolerable to me to live in
daily intercourse with any one, and at the same time to stand on an
uncertain, constrained footing with him. It was not long, then, before
I spoke to him about the affair, refreshed myself by the relation and
repetition of the minutest circumstances of my past happiness, and
thus gained so much, that he, like a sensible man, saw it would be
better to make me acquainted with the issue of the story, and that
too in its details and particulars, so that I might be clear as to
the whole, and that with earnestness and zeal, I might be persuaded
of the necessity of composing myself, throwing the past behind me,
and beginning a new life. First he confided to me who the other young
people of quality were who had allowed themselves to be seduced, at
the outset, into daring hoaxes, then into sportive breaches of police,
afterwards into frolicsome impositions on others, and other such
dangerous matters. Thus actually had arisen a little conspiracy, which
unprincipled men had joined, who, by forging papers and counterfeiting
signatures, had perpetrated many criminal acts, and had still more
criminal matters in preparation. The cousins, after whom I at last
impatiently inquired, had been found to be quite innocent, only very
generally acquainted with those others, and not at all implicated with
them. My client, by recommending whom to my grandfather I had in fact
put people on the scent, was one of the worst, and bad sued for that
office chiefly that he might undertake or conceal certain villanies.
After all this, I could at last contain myself no longer, and asked
what had become of Gretchen, for whom I, once for all, confessed the
strongest attachment. My friend shook his head and smiled,--"Make
yourself easy," replied he; "this girl has passed her examination very
well, and has borne off honourable testimony to that effect. They could
discover nothing in her but what was good and amiable, the examiners
themselves were well-disposed to her, and could not refuse her desire
of removing from the city. Even what she has confessed in respect to
you, too, my friend, does her honour; I have read her deposition in
the secret reports myself, and seen her signature." "The signature!"
exclaimed I, "which makes me so happy and so miserable. "What has she
confessed, then? What has she subscribed?" My friend delayed answering;
but the cheerfulness of his face showed me that he concealed nothing
dangerous. "If you must know, then," replied he at last, "when she
was interrogated concerning you, and her intercourse with you, she
said quite frankly, 'I cannot deny that I have seen him often and with
pleasure; but I have always treated him as a child, and my affection
for him was truly that of a sister. In many cases I have given him
good advice, and instead of instigating him to any equivocal action, I
have hindered him from taking part in wanton tricks, which might have
brought him into trouble.'"

[Side-note: Change of Feeling Towards Gretchen.]

My friend still went on making Gretchen speak like a governess; but I
bad already for some time ceased to listen to him; for I was terribly
affronted that she had set me down in the reports as a child, and
believed myself at once cured of all passion for her. I even hastily
assured my friend that all was now over. I also spoke no more of her,
named her no more; but I could not leave off the bad habit of thinking
about her, and of recalling her form, her air, her demeanour, though
now, in fact, all appeared to me in quite another light. I felt it
intolerable that a girl, at the most only a couple of years older than
me, should regard me as a child, while I conceived I passed with her
for a very sensible and clever youth. Her cold and repelling manner,
which had before so charmed me, now seemed to me quite repugnant; the
familiarities which she had allowed herself to take with me, but had
not permitted me to return, were altogether odious. Yet all would have
been well enough for me, if by subscribing that poetical love-letter,
in which she had confessed a formal attachment to me, she had not
given me a right to regard her as a sly and selfish coquette. Her
masquerading it at the milliner's, too, no longer seemed to me so
innocent; and I turned these annoying reflections over and over within
myself until I had entirely stripped her of all her amiable qualities.
My judgment was convinced, and I thought I must cast her away; but her
image!--her image gave me the lie as often as it again hovered before
me, which indeed happened often enough.

Nevertheless, this arrow with its barbed hooks was torn out of my
heart, and the question then was, how the inward sanative power of
youth could be brought to one's aid? I really put on the man; and the
first thing instantly laid aside was the weeping and raving, which I
now regarded as childish in the highest degree. A great stride for the
better! For I had often, half the night through, given myself up to
this grief, with the greatest violence, so that at last, from my tears
and sobbing, I came to such a point that I could scarce swallow any
more, the pleasure of eating and drinking became painful to me, and my
breast, which was so nearly concerned, seemed to suffer. The vexation
which I had constantly felt since the discovery, made me banish every
weakness. I found it frightful that I had sacrificed sleep, repose and
health, for the sake of a girl who was pleased to consider me a babe,
and to imagine herself, with respect to me, something very much like a
nurse.

These depressing reflections, as I was soon convinced, were only to be
banished by activity; but of what was I to take hold? I had, indeed,
much to make up for in many things, and to prepare myself, in more
than one sense, for the university, which I was now to attend; but I
relished and accomplished nothing. Much appeared to me familiar and
trivial; for grounding myself, in several respects, I found neither
strength within nor opportunity without; and I therefore suffered
myself to be moved by the taste of my good room-neighbour, to a study
which was altogether new and strange to me, and which for a long time
offered me a wide field of information and thought. My friend began,
namely, to make me acquainted with the secrets of philosophy. He
had studied in Jena, under Daries, and, possessing a well-regulated
mind, had acutely seized the relations of that doctrine, which he now
sought to impart to me. But, unfortunately, these things would not
hang together in such a fashion in my brain. I put questions, which he
promised to answer afterwards; I made demands, which he promised to
satisfy in future. But our most important difference was this, that I
maintained a separate philosophy was not necessary, as the whole of it
was already contained in religion and poetry. This he would by no means
allow, but rather tried to prove to me that these must first be founded
on philosophy; which I stubbornly denied, and at every step in the
progress of our discussions, found arguments for my opinion. For, as
in poetry a certain faith in the impossible, and as in religion a like
faith in the inscrutable, must have a place, the philosophers appeared
to me to be in a very false position who would demonstrate and explain
both of them from their own field of vision. Besides, it was very
quickly proved, from the history of philosophy, that one always sought
a ground different from that of the other, and that the sceptic, in the
end, pronounced everything groundless and useless.

[Side-note: History of Philosophy.]

However, this very history of philosophy, which my friend was compelled
to go over with me, because I could learn nothing from dogmatical
discourse, amused me very much, but only on this account, that one
doctrine or opinion seemed to me as good as another, so far, at least,
as I was capable of penetrating into it. With the most ancient men and
schools I was best pleased, because poetry, religion, and philosophy
were completely combined into one; and I only maintained that first
opinion of mine with the more animation, when the book of Job and
the Song and Proverbs of Solomon, as well as the lays of Orpheus and
Hesiod, seemed to bear valid witness in its favour. My friend had taken
the smaller work of Brucker as the foundation of his discourse; and the
further we went on, the less I could make of it. I could not clearly
see what the first Greek philosophers would have. Socrates I esteemed
as an excellent, wise man, who in his life and death might well be
compared with Christ. His disciples, on the other hand, seemed to me to
bear a strong resemblance to the Apostles, who disagreed immediately
after their Master's death, when each manifestly recognised only a
limited view as the right one. Neither the keenness of Aristotle nor
the fulness of Plato produced the least fruit in me. For the Stoics, on
the contrary, I had already conceived some affection, and even procured
Epictetus, whom I studied with much interest. My friend unwillingly
let me have my way in this one-sidedness, from which he could not draw
me; for, in spite of his varied studies, he did not know how to bring
the leading question into a narrow compass. He need only have said to
me that in life action is everything, and that joy and sorrow come of
themselves. However, youth should be allowed its own course; it does
not stick to false maxims very long; life soon tears or charms it away
again.

The season had become fine; we often went together into the open air,
and visited the places of amusement which surrounded the city in great
numbers. But it was precisely here that matters went worse with me; for
I still saw the ghosts of the cousins everywhere, and feared, now here,
now there, to see one of them step forward. Even the most indifferent
glances of men annoyed me. I had lost that unconscious happiness of
wandering about unknown and unblamed, and of thinking of no observer,
even in the greatest crowds. Now hypochondriacal fancies began to
torment me, as if I attracted the attention of the people, as if their
eyes were turned on my demeanour, to fix it on their memories, to scan
and to find fault.

I therefore drew my friend into the woods, and while I shunned the
monotonous firs, I sought those fine leafy groves, which do not indeed
spread far in the district, but are yet of sufficient compass for a
poor wounded heart to hide itself. In the remotest depth of the forest
I sought out a solemn spot, where the oldest oaks and beeches formed a
large, noble shaded space. The ground was somewhat sloping, and made
the worth of the old trunks only the more perceptible. Round this open
circle closed the densest thickets, from which the mossy rocks mightily
and venerably peered forth, and made a rapid fall for a copious brook.

Scarcely had I compelled my friend hither, who would rather have
been in the open country by the stream, among men, than he playfully
assured me that I showed myself a true German, he related to me
circumstantially, out of Tacitus, how our ancestors found pleasure
in the feelings which nature so provides for us, in such solitudes,
with her inartificial architecture. He had not been long discoursing
of this, when I exclaimed, "Oh! why did not this precious spot lie
in a deeper wilderness! why may we not train a hedge around it, to
hallow and separate from the world both it and ourselves! Surely there
is no more beautiful adoration of the Deity than that which needs no
image, but which springs up in our bosom merely from the intercourse
with nature!" What I then felt, is still present to me; what I said,
I know not how to recall. Thus much, however, is certain, that the
undetermined, widely-expanding feelings of youth and of uncultivated
nations are alone adapted to the sublime, which, if it is to be
excited in us through external objects, formless, or moulded into
incomprehensible forms, must surround us with a greatness to which we
are not equal.

All men, more or less, feel such a disposition of the soul, and seek
to satisfy this noble necessity in various ways. But as the sublime
is easily produced by twilight and night, when objects are blended,
it is, on the other hand, scared away by the day, which separates and
sunders everything, and so must it also be destroyed by every increase
of cultivation, if it be not fortunate enough to take refuge with the
beautiful, and unite itself closely with it, by which both become
equally undying and indestructible.

The brief moments of such enjoyments were still more shortened by my
meditative friend; but when I turned back into the world, it was
altogether in vain that I sought, among the bright and barren objects
around, again to arouse such feelings within me; nay, I could scarce
retain even the remembrance of them. My heart, however, was too far
spoiled to be able to compose itself; it had loved, and the object was
snatched away from it; it had lived, and life to it was embittered.
A friend who makes it too perceptible that he designs to form you,
excites no feeling of comfort; while a woman who is forming you, while
she seems to spoil you, is adored as a heavenly, joy-bringing being.
But that form in which the idea of beauty manifested itself to me, had
vanished far away; it often visited me under the shade of my oak trees,
but I could not hold it fast, and I felt a powerful impulse to seek
something similar in the distance.

[Side-note: Drawing From Nature.]

I had imperceptibly accustomed, nay, compelled my friend and overseer
to leave me alone; for even in my sacred grove, those undefined,
gigantic feelings were not sufficient for me. The eye was, above all
others, the organ by which I seized the world. I had, from childhood,
lived among painters, and had accustomed myself to look at objects,
as they did, with reference to art. Now I was left to myself and to
solitude, this gift, half natural, half acquired, made its appearance.
Wherever I looked, I saw a picture, and whatever struck me, whatever
gave me delight, I washed to fix, and began, in the most awkward
manner, to draw after nature. In this I lacked nothing less than
everything; yet, though without any technical means, I obstinately
persisted in trying to imitate the most magnificent things that offered
themselves to my sight. Thus, to be sure, I acquired a great attention
to objects; but I only seized them as a whole, so far as they produced
an effect; and, little as nature had meant me for a descriptive poet,
just as little would she grant me the capacity of a draughtsman for
details. Since, however, this was the only way left me of expressing
myself, I stuck to it with so much stubbornness, nay, even with
melancholy, that I always continued my labours the more zealously, the
less I saw they produced.

But I will not deny that there was a certain mixture of roguery; for
I had remarked that if I chose for an irksome study a half-shaded
old trunk, to the hugely curved roots of which clung well-lit fern,
combined with twinkling maidenhair, my friend, who knew from experience
that I should not be disengaged in less than an hour commonly resolved
to seek, with his books, some other pleasant little spot. Now nothing
disturbed me in prosecuting my taste, which was so much the more
active, since my paper was endeared to me by the circumstance that I
had accustomed myself to see in it, not so much what stood upon it,
as what I had been thinking of at any time and hour when I drew. Thus
plants and flowers of the commonest kind may form a charming diary for
us, because nothing that calls back the remembrance of a happy moment
can be insignificant; and even now it would be hard for me to destroy
as worthless many things of the kind that have remained to me from
different epochs, because they transport me immediately to those times
which I remember with melancholy indeed, but not unwillingly.

But if such drawings may have had anything of interest in themselves,
they were indebted for this advantage to the sympathy and attention
of my father. He, informed by my overseer that I had become gradually
reconciled to my condition, and, in particular, had applied myself
passionately to drawing from nature, was very well satisfied--partly
because he himself set a high value on drawing and painting, partly
because gossip Seekatz had once said to him, that it was a pity I was
not destined for a painter. But here again the peculiarities of the
father and son came into conflict; for it was almost impossible for
me to make use of a good, white, perfectly clean sheet of paper; grey
old leaves, even if scribbled over on one side already, charmed me
most, just as if my awkwardness had feared the touchstone of a white
ground. Nor were any of my drawings quite finished; and how should I
have executed a whole, which indeed I saw with my eyes, but did not
comprehend, and how an individual object, which I had neither skill
nor patience to follow out? The pedagogism of my father on this point,
too, was really to be admired. He kindly asked for my attempts, and
drew lines round every imperfect sketch. He wished, by this means, to
compel me to completeness and fulness of detail. The irregular leaves
he cut straight, and thus made the beginning of a collection, in which
he wished, at some future time, to rejoice at the progress of his son.
It was therefore by no means disagreeable to him when my wild, restless
disposition sent me roving about the country; he rather seemed pleased
when I brought back a parcel of drawings on which he could exercise his
patience, and in some measure strengthen his hopes.

They no longer said that I might relapse into my former attachments
and connexions; they left me by degrees perfect liberty. By accidental
inducements and in accidental society I undertook many journeys to
the mountain-range which, from my childhood, had stood so distant and
solemn before me. Thus we visited Homburg, Kroneburg, ascended the
Feldberg, from which the prospect invited us still further and further
into the distance. Königstein, too, was not left unvisited; Wiesbaden,
Schwalbach, with its environs, occupied us many days; we reached the
Rhine, which, from the heights, we had seen winding along far off.
Mentz astonished us, but could not chain a youthful mind, which was
running into the open country; we were delighted with the situation of
Biberich; and, contented and happy, we resumed our journey home.

This whole tour, from which my father had promised himself many a
drawing, might have been almost without fruit; for what taste, what
talent, what experience does it not require to seize an extensive
landscape as a picture! I was again imperceptibly drawn into a narrow
compass, from which I derived some profit; for I met no ruined castle,
no piece of wall which pointed to antiquity, that I did not think an
object worthy of my pencil, and imitate as well as I could. Even the
stone of Drusus, on the ramparts of Mentz, I copied at some risk,
and with inconveniences which every one must experience who wishes
to carry home with him some pictorial reminiscences of his travels.
Unfortunately I had again taken with me nothing but the most miserable
common paper, and had clumsily crowded several objects into one sheet.
But my paternal teacher was not perplexed at this; he cut the sheets
apart, had the parts which belonged to each other put together by the
bookbinder, surrounded the single leaves with lines, and thus actually
compelled me to draw the outline of different mountains up to the
margin, and to fill up the foreground with some weeds and stones.

If his faithful endeavours could not increase my talent, nevertheless
this mark of his love of order had upon me a secret influence, which
afterwards manifested itself vigorously in more ways than one.

[Side-note: Goethe's Sister.]

From such rambling excursions, undertaken partly for pleasure, partly
for art, and which could be performed in a short time and often
repeated, I was again drawn home, and that by a magnet which always
acted upon me strongly: this was my sister. She, only a year younger
than I, had lived my whole conscious period of life with me, and was
thus bound to me by the closest ties. To these natural causes was
added a forcible motive, which proceeded from our domestic position; a
father certainly affectionate and well-meaning, but grave, who, because
he cherished within a very tender heart, externally, with incredible
consistency, maintained a brazen sternness, that he might attain the
end of giving his children the best education, and of building up,
regulating, and preserving his well-founded house; a mother, on the
other hand, as yet almost a child, who first grew up to consciousness
with and in her two eldest children; these three, as they looked at
the world with healthy eyes, capable of life, and desiring present
enjoyment. This contradiction floating in the family increased with
years. My father followed out his views unshaken and uninterrupted; the
mother and children could not give up their feelings, their claims,
their wishes.

Under these circumstances it was natural that brother and sister should
attach themselves close to each other, and adhere to their mother, that
they might singly snatch the pleasures forbidden as a whole. But since
the hours of solitude and toil were very long compared to the moments
of recreation and enjoyment, especially for my sister, who could never
leave the house for so long a time as I could, the necessity she felt
for entertaining herself with me was still sharpened by the sense of
longing with which she accompanied me to a distance.

And as, in our first years, playing and learning, growth and education,
had been quite common to both of us, so that we might well have been
taken for twins, so did this community, this confidence, remain during
the development of our physical and moral powers. That interest of
youth, that amazement at the awakening of sensual impulses which
clothe themselves in mental forms, of mental necessities which clothe
themselves in sensual images, all the reflections upon these, which
obscure rather than enlighten us, as the fog covers over and does not
illumine the vale from which it is about to rise, the many errors and
aberrations springing therefrom,--all these the brother and sister
shared and endured hand in hand, and were the less enlightened as to
their strange condition, as the nearer they wished to approach each
other, to clear up their minds, the more forcibly did the sacred awe
of their close relationship keep them apart.

Reluctantly do I mention, in general terms, what I undertook to set
forth, years ago, without being able to accomplish it. As I lost this
beloved, incomprehensible being, but too soon, I felt inducement enough
to make, her worth present to me, and thus arose in me the conception
of a poetic whole, in which it might be possible to exhibit her
individuality: but for this no other form could be devised than that
of the Richardsonian novels. Only by the minutest detail, by endless
particularities which bear vividly all the character of the whole,
and as they spring up from a wonderful depth give some feeling of
that depth;--only in such a manner would it have been in some degree
possible to give a representation of this remarkable personality: for
the spring can be apprehended only while it is flowing. But from this
beautiful and pious design, as from so many others, the tumult of the
world drew me back, and nothing now remains for me but to call up for a
moment that blessed spirit, as if by the aid of a magic mirror.

[Side-note: Goethe's Sister.]

She was tall, well and delicately formed, and had something naturally
dignified in her demeanour, which melted away into a pleasing mildness.
The lineaments of her face, neither striking nor beautiful, indicated
a character which was not and could not be at union with itself. Her
eyes were not the finest I have ever seen, but the deepest, behind
which you expected the most; and when they expressed any affection, any
love, their brilliancy was unequalled. And yet, properly speaking, this
expression was not tender, like that which comes from the heart, and
at the same time carries with it something of longing and desire; this
expression came from the soul, it was full and rich, it seemed as if it
would only give, without needing to receive.

But what in a manner quite peculiar disfigured her face, so that she
would often appear positively ugly, was the fashion of those times,
which not only bared the forehead, but, either accidentally or on
purpose, did everything apparently or really to enlarge it. Now, as
she had the most feminine, most neatly arched forehead, and moreover a
pair of strong black eyebrows, and prominent eyes, these circumstances
occasioned a contrast, which, if it did not repel every stranger at the
first glance, at least did not attract him. She early felt it, and this
feeling became constantly the more painful to her, the further she
advanced into the years when both sexes find an innocent pleasure in
being mutually agreeable.

To nobody can his own form be repugnant; the ugliest as well as the
most beautiful has a right to enjoy his own presence; and as favour
beautifies, and every one regards himself in the looking-glass with
favour, it may be asserted that every one must see himself with
complacency, even if he would struggle against the feeling. Yet my
sister had such a decided foundation of good sense, that she could
not possibly be blind and silly in this respect; on the contrary, she
perhaps knew more clearly than she ought, that she stood far behind her
female playfellows in external beauty, without feeling consoled by the
fact that she infinitely surpassed them in internal advantages.

If a lady can be recompensed for the want of beauty, then was she
richly so by the unbounded confidence, the regard, and love which
all her female friends bore to her; whether they were older or
younger, all cherished the same sentiments. A very pleasant society
had collected around her; young men were not wanting who knew how to
insinuate themselves; nearly every girl found an admirer; she alone
had remained without a partner. Indeed, if her exterior was in some
measure repulsive, the mind that gleamed through it was also rather
repelling than attractive; for the presence of any excellence throws
others back upon themselves. She felt this sensibly, she did not
conceal it from me, and her love was directed to me with so much the
greater force. The ease was singular enough. As confidants to whom one
reveals a love-affair actually by genuine sympathy become lovers also,
nay, grow into rivals, and at last, perchance, transfer the passion to
themselves, so it was with us two: for, when my connexion with Gretchen
was torn asunder, my sister consoled me the more earnestly, because she
secretly felt the satisfaction of having gotten rid of a rival; and
I, too, could not but feel a quiet, half-mischievous pleasure, when
she did me the justice to assure me that I was the only one who truly
loved, understood, and esteemed her. If now, from time to time, my
grief for the loss of Gretchen revived, and I suddenly began to weep,
to lament, and to act in a disorderly manner, my despair for my lost
one awakened in her likewise a similar despairing impatience as to
the never-possessings, the failures, and miscarriages of such youthful
attachments, that we both thought ourselves infinitely unhappy, and
the more so as, in this singular case, the confidants could not change
themselves into lovers.

[Side-note: The Sister's Lover.]

Fortunately, however, the capricious god of Love, who needlessly
does so much mischief, here for once interfered beneficially, to
extricate us out of all perplexity. I had much intercourse with a
young Englishman who was educated in Pfeil's boarding-school. He could
give a good account of his own language, I practised it with him, and
thus learned much concerning his country and people. He went in and
out of our house long enough without my remarking in him a liking
for my sister, yet he may have been nourishing it in secret, even to
passion, for at last it declared itself unexpectedly and at once. She
knew him, she esteemed him, and he deserved it. She had often made the
third at our English conversations, we had both tried to catch from
his mouth the irregularities of the English pronunciation, and thereby
accustomed ourselves not only to the peculiarities of its accent and
sound, but even to what was most peculiar in the personal qualities
of our teacher; so that at last it sounded strangely enough when we
all seemed to speak as if out of one mouth. The pains he took to learn
as much German from us in the like manner, were to no purpose, and I
think I have remarked that even this little love-affair also, both in
speaking and writing, was carried on in the English language. Both
the young persons were very well suited to each other; he was tall
and well-built, as she was, only still more slender; his face, small
and compact, might really have been pretty, had it not been too much
disfigured by the small-pox; his manner was calm, precise, one might
often have called it dry and cold; but his heart was full of kindness
and love, his soul full of generosity, and his attachments as lasting
as they were decided and controlled. Now this serious pair, who had but
lately formed an attachment, were quite peculiarly distinguished among
the others, who, being already better acquainted with each other, of
more frivolous character, and careless as to the future, roved about
with levity in these connexions, which commonly pass away as the mere
fruitless prelude to subsequent and more serious ties, and very seldom
produce a lasting effect upon life.

The fine weather and the beautiful country did not remain unenjoyed by
so lively a company; water excursions were frequently arranged, because
these are the most sociable of all parties of pleasure. Yet whether
we were moving on water or on land, the individual attracting powers
immediately showed themselves; each couple kept together, and for some
men who were not engaged, of whom I was one, there remained either
no conversation with the ladies at all, or only such as no one would
have chosen for a day of pleasure. A friend who found himself in this
situation, and who might have been in want of a partner chiefly for
this reason, that with the best humour he lacked tenderness, and with
much intelligence, that delicate attention, without which connexions of
this kind are not to be thought of;--this man, after often humorously
and wittily lamenting his condition, promised at the next meeting to
make a proposal which would benefit himself and the whole company. Nor
did he fail to perform his promise: for, when after a brilliant trip by
water, and a very pleasant walk, reclining on the grass between shady
knolls, or sitting on mossy rocks and roots of trees, we had cheerfully
and happily consumed a rural meal, and our friend saw us all cheerful
and in good spirits, he, with a waggish dignity, commanded us to sit
close round him in a semicircle, before which he stepped, and began to
make an emphatic peroration as follows:--

"Most worthy friends of both sexes, paired and unpaired!"--It was
already evident, from this address, how necessary it was that a
preacher of repentance should arise and sharpen the conscience of the
company. "One part of my noble friends is paired, and they may find
themselves quite happy; another unpaired, and these find themselves
in the highest degree miserable, as I can assure you from my own
experience; and although the loving couples are here in the majority,
yet I would have them consider whether it is not a social duty to take
thought for the whole? Why do so many of us unite together but to take
a mutual interest in each other? and how can that be done when so many
little secessions are to be seen in our circle? Far be it from me to
insinuate any thing against such sweet connexions, or even to wish to
disturb them; but 'there is a time for all things!' an excellent great
saying, of which, indeed, nobody thinks when his own amusement is
sufficiently provided for."

He then went on with constantly increasing liveliness and gaiety to
compare the social virtues with the tender sentiments. "The latter,"
said he, "can never fail us; we always carry them about with us, and
every one becomes a master in them without practice; but we must go in
quest of the former, we must take some trouble about them, and though
we progress in them as much as we will, we have never done learning
them." Now he went into particulars. Many felt themselves hit off, and
they could not help casting glances at each other; yet our friend had
this privilege, that nothing he did was taken ill, and so he could
proceed without interruption.

[Side-note: Humorous Oration.]

"It is not enough to discover deficiencies; indeed, it is unjust to
do so, if at the same time one cannot contrive to give the means for
bettering the state of affairs. I will not, therefore, my friends,
something like a preacher in Passion-week, exhort you in general terms
to repentance and amendment; I rather wish all amiable couples the
longest and most enduring happiness, and to contribute to it myself in
the surest manner, I propose to sever and abolish these most charming
little segregations during our social hours. I have," he continued,
"already provided for the execution of my project, if it should
meet your approbation. Here is a bag in which are the names of the
gentlemen; now draw, my fair ones, and be pleased to favour as your
servant, for a week, him whom fate shall send you. This is binding only
within our circle; as soon as that is broken up, these connexions are
also abolished, and the heart may decide who shall attend you home."

A large part of the company had been delighted with this address, and
the manner in which he delivered it, and seemed to approve of the
notion; yet some couples looked at each other as if they thought that
it would not answer their purpose: he therefore cried with humorous
vehemence:--

"Truly! it surprises me that some one does not spring up, and, though
others hesitate, extol my plan, explain its advantages, and spare me
the pain of being my own encomiast. I am the oldest among you; may God
forgive me for that! Already have I a bald pate, which is owing to my
great meditation,"--

Here he took off his hat--

"But I would expose it to view with joy and honour if my lucubrations,
which dry up my skin, and rob me of my finest adornment, could only
be in some measure beneficial to myself and others. We are young, my
friends,--that is good; we shall grow older,--that is bad; we take
little offence at each other,--that is right, and in accordance with
the season. But soon, my friends, the days will come when we shall have
much to be displeased at in ourselves; then let every one see that he
makes all right with himself; but, at the same time, others will take
things ill of us, and on what account we shall not understand; for this
we must prepare ourselves; this shall now be done."

He had delivered the whole speech, but especially the last part, with
the tone and gesture of a Capuchin; for as he was a catholic, he might
have had abundant opportunity to study the oratory of these fathers.
He now appeared out of breath, wiped his youthful bald head, which
really gave him the look of a priest, and by these drolleries put the
light-hearted company in such good humour that every one was eager to
hear him longer. But instead of proceeding, he drew open the bag, and
turned to the nearest lady--"Now for a trial of it!" exclaimed he; "the
work will do credit to the master. If in a week's time we do not like
it, we will give it up, and stick to the old plan."

Half willingly, half on compulsion, the ladies drew their tickets,
and it was easy to see that various passions were in play during this
little affair. Fortunately it happened that the merry-minded were
separated, while the more serious remained together; and so, too, my
sister kept her Englishman, which, on both sides, they took very kindly
of the god of Love and Luck. The new chance-couples were immediately
united by the _Antistes_, their healths were drank, and to all the more
joy was wished, as its duration was to be but short. This was certainly
the merriest moment that our company had enjoyed for a long time. The
young men to whose share no lady had fallen, held, for this week, the
office of providing for the mind, the soul, and the body, as our orator
expressed himself, but especially, he hinted, for the soul, since both
the others already knew how to help themselves.

These masters of ceremonies, who wished at once to do themselves
credit, brought into play some very pretty new games, prepared at some
distance a supper, which we had not reckoned on, and illuminated the
yacht on our return at night, although there was no necessity for it
in the bright moonlight; but they excused themselves by saying that
it was quite conformable to the new social regulation to outshine the
tender glances of the heavenly moon by earthly candles. The moment we
touched the shore, our Solon cried, "_Ite, missa est!_" Each one now
handed out of the vessel the lady who had fallen to him by lot, and
then surrendered her to her proper partner, on receiving his own in
exchange.

At our next meeting this weekly regulation was established for the
summer, and the lots were drawn once more. There was no question but
that this pleasantry gave a new and unexpected turn to the company,
and every one was stimulated to display whatever of wit and grace
was in him, and to pay court to his temporary fair one in the most
obliging manner, since he might depend on having a sufficient store of
complaisance for one week at least.

[Side-note: Second Oration.]

We had scarcely settled ourselves, than, instead of thanking our
orator, we reproached him for having kept to himself the best part
of his speech--the conclusion. He thereupon protested that the best
part of a speech was persuasion; and that he who did not aim at
persuasion should make no speech; for, as to conviction, that was a
ticklish business. As, however, they gave him no peace, he began a
Capuchinade on the spot, more comical than ever, perhaps, for the very
reason that he took it into his head to speak on the most serious
subjects. For, with texts out of the Bible which had nothing to do with
the business--with similes which did not fit--with allusions which
illustrated nothing--he carried out the proposition, that whosoever
does not know how to conceal his passions, inclinations, wishes,
purposes and plans, will come to no good in the world, but will be
disturbed and made a butt in every end and corner; and that especially
if one would be happy in love, one must take pains to keep it a most
profound secret.

This thought ran through the whole, without, properly speaking, a
single word of it being said. If you would form a conception of
this singular man, let it be considered that, being born with a
good foundation, he had cultivated his talents, and especially his
acuteness, in Jesuit schools, and had amassed an extensive knowledge
of the world and of men, but only on the bad side. He was some
two-and-twenty years old, and would gladly have made me a proselyte to
his contempt for mankind: but this would not take with me, as I always
had a great desire to be good myself, and to find good in others.
Meanwhile I was by him made attentive to many things.

To complete the _dramatis personæ_ of every merry company, an actor
is necessary, who feels pleasure when the others, to enliven many an
indifferent moment, point the arrows of their wit at him. If he is
not merely a stuffed Saracen, like those on whom the knights used to
practise their lances in mock battles, but understands himself how
to skirmish, to rally and to challenge, how to wound lightly, and
recover himself again, and, while he seems to expose himself, to give
others a thrust home, nothing more agreeable can be found. Such a
man we possessed in our friend Horn, whose name, to begin with, gave
occasion for all sorts of jokes, and who, on account of his small
figure, was called nothing but Hörnchen (little Horn). He was, in
fact, the smallest in the company, of a stout, but pleasing form; a
pug-nose, a mouth somewhat pouting, little sparkling eyes, made up
a swarthy countenance, which always seemed to invite laughter. His
little compact skull was thickly covered with curly black hair; his
beard was prematurely blue, and he would have liked to let it grow,
that, as a comic mask, he might always keep the company laughing. For
the rest, he was neat and nimble, but insisted that he had bandy legs,
which everybody granted, since he was bent on having it so, but about
which many a joke arose; for since he was in request as a very good
dancer he reckoned it among the peculiarities of the fair sex, that
they always liked to see bandy legs on the floor. His cheerfulness was
indestructible, and his presence at every meeting indispensable. We
two kept more together because he was to follow me to the university;
and he well deserves that I should mention him with all honour, as he
adhered to me for many years with infinite love, faithfulness, and
patience.

By my ease in rhyming, and in winning from common objects a poetical
side, he had allowed himself to be seduced into similar labours. Our
little social excursions, parties of pleasure, and the contingencies
that occurred in them, we decked out poetically, and thus by the
description of an event, a new event always arose. But as such social
jests commonly degenerate into personal ridicule, and my friend Horn,
with his burlesque representations, did not always keep within proper
bounds, many a misunderstanding arose, which, however, could soon be
softened down and effaced.

Thus, also, he tried his skill in a species of poetry which was then
very much the order of the day--the comic heroical poem. Pope's _Rape
of the Lock_ had called forth many imitations; Zachariä cultivated this
branch of poetry on German soil, and it pleased every one, because the
ordinary subject of it was some awkward fellow, of whom the genii made
game, while they favoured the better one.

It is not wonderful, but yet it excites wonder, when, in contemplating
a literature, especially the German, one observes how a whole nation
cannot get free from a subject which has been once given, and happily
treated in a certain form, but will have it repeated in every manner,
until, at last, the original itself is covered up, and stifled by the
heaps of imitations.

[Side-note: Comic Heroical Poetry.]

The heroic poem of my friend was a voucher for this remark. At a great
sledging party, an awkward man has assigned to him a lady who does not
like him; comically enough there befalls him, one after another, every
accident that can happen on such an occasion, until at last, as he is
entreating for the sledge-driver's right (a kiss), he falls from the
back seat; for just then, as was natural, the fates tripped him up.
The fair one seizes the reins, and drives home alone, where a favoured
friend receives her, and triumphs over his presumptuous rival. As to
the rest, it was very prettily contrived that the four different kinds
of spirits should worry him in turn, till at the end the gnomes hoist
him completely out of the saddle. The poem, written in Alexandrines,
and founded on a true story, highly delighted our little public, and we
were convinced that it could well be compared with the _Walpurgisnight_
of Löwen, or the _Renommist_ of Zachariä.[1]

While, now, our social pleasures required but an evening, and the
preparations for them only a few hours, I had enough time to read, and,
as I thought, to study. To please my father, I diligently repeated the
smaller work of Hopp, and could stand an examination in it forwards and
backwards, by which means I made myself complete master of the chief
contents of the Institutes. But a restless eagerness for knowledge
urged me further; I lit upon the history of ancient literature, and
from that fell into an encyclopedism, in which I read through Gessner's
_Isagoge_ and Morhov's _Polyhistor_, and thus gained a general notion
of how many strange things might have happened in learning and life. By
this persevering and rapid industry, continued day and night, I more
confused than instructed myself; but I lost myself in a still greater
labyrinth when I found Bayle in my father's library, and plunged deep
into him.

But a leading conviction, which was continually revived within me, was
that of the importance of the ancient tongues; since from amidst this
literary hurly-burly, thus much continually forced itself upon me, that
in them were preserved all the models of oratory, and at the same time
everything else of worth that the world has ever possessed. Hebrew,
together with biblical studies, had retired into the background, and
Greek likewise, since my acquaintance with it did not extend beyond
the New Testament. I therefore the more zealously kept to Latin,
the master-pieces in which lie nearer to us, and which, besides its
splendid original productions, offers us the other wealth of all ages
in translations, and the works of the greatest scholars. I consequently
read much in this language, with great ease, and was bold enough to
believe I understood the authors, because I missed nothing of the
literal sense. Indeed I was very indignant when I heard that Grotius
had insolently declared, "he did not read Terence as boys do." Happy
narrow-mindedness of youth!--nay, of men in general, that they can, at
every moment of their existence, fancy themselves finished, and inquire
after neither the true nor the false, after neither the high nor the
deep, but merely after that which is suited to them.

I had thus learned Latin, like German, French, and English, merely by
practice, without rules, and without conception. Whoever knows the
condition of school instruction then, will not think it strange that I
skipped grammar as well as rhetoric; all seemed to me to come together
naturally; I retained the words, their forms and inflexions, in my ear
and mind, and used the language with case in writing and in chattering.

[Side-note: Disgust at Frankfort.]

Michaelmas, the time when I was to go to the university, was
approaching, and my mind was excited quite as much about my life
as about my learning. I grew more and more clearly conscious of an
aversion to my native city. By Gretchen's removal, the heart had
been broken out of the boyish and youthful plant; it needed time to
bud forth again from its sides, and surmount the first injury by a
new growth. My ramblings through the streets had ceased; I now, like
others, only went such ways as were necessary. I never went again into
Gretchen's quarter of the city, not even into its vicinity; and as
my old walls and towers became gradually disagreeable to me, so also
was I displeased at the constitution of the city; all that hitherto
seemed so worthy of honour, now appeared to me in distorted shapes.
As grandson of the Schultheiss, the secret defects of such a republic
had not remained unknown to me; the less so, as children feel quite
a peculiar surprise, and are excited to busy researches, as soon as
something which they have hitherto implicitly revered becomes in any
degree suspicious to them. The fruitless indignation of upright men, in
opposition to those who are to be gained and even bribed by factions,
had become but too plain to me; I hated every injustice beyond measure;
for children are all moral rigorists. My father, who was concerned in
the affairs of the city only as a private citizen, expressed himself
with very lively indignation about much that had failed. And did I not
see him, after so many studies, endeavours, pains, travels, and so much
varied cultivation, between his four walls, leading a solitary life,
such as I could never desire for myself? All this put together, lay
as a horrible load on my mind, from which I could only free myself by
trying to contrive a plan of life altogether different from that which
had been marked out for me. In thought, I threw away my legal studies,
and devoted myself solely to the languages, to antiquities, to history,
and to all that flows from them.

Indeed, at all times, the poetic imitation of what I had perceived in
myself, in others, and in nature, afforded me the greatest pleasure. I
did it with ever-increasing facility, because it came by instinct, and
no criticism had led me astray; and if I did not feel full confidence
in my productions, I could certainly regard them as defective, but not
such as to be utterly rejected. Was this or that censured in them, I
still retained in private my conviction that I could not but gradually
improve, and that some time I might be honourably named along with
Hagedorn, Gellert, and other such men. But such a distinction alone
seemed to me too empty and inadequate; I wished to devote myself
professionally and with zeal to those aforesaid fundamental studies,
and while I thought to advance myself more rapidly in my own works
by a more thorough insight into antiquity, to qualify myself for a
university professorship, which seemed to me the most desirable thing
for a young man who intended to cultivate himself and to contribute to
the cultivation of others.

With these intentions, I always had my eye upon Göttingen. My whole
confidence rested upon men like Heyne, Michaelis, and so many others;
my most ardent wish was to sit at their feet, and attend to their
instructions. But my father remained inflexible. Howsoever some family
friends, who were of my opinion, tried to influence him he persisted
that I must go to Leipzig. I was now resolved, contrary to his views
and wishes, to choose a line of studies and of life for myself, by way
of self-defence. The obstinacy of my father, who, without knowing it,
opposed himself to my plans, strengthened me in my impiety, so that I
made no scruple to listen to him by the hour, while he described and
repeated to me the course of study and of life which I should pursue at
the universities and in the world.

Since all hopes of Göttingen were cut off, I now turned my eyes towards
Leipzig. There Ernesti appeared to me as a brilliant light; Morus,
too, already awakened much confidence*. I planned for myself in secret
an opposition-course, or rather I built a castle in the air, on a
tolerably solid foundation; and it seemed to me quite romantically
honourable to mark out my own path of life, which appeared the less
visionary, as Griesbach had already made great progress in a similar
way, and was commended for it by every one. The secret joy of a
prisoner, when he has unbound the fetters and rapidly filed through
the bars of his gaol-window, cannot be greater than was mine as I saw
day after day disappear, and October draw nigh. The inclement season
and the bad roads, of which everybody had something to tell, did not
frighten me. The thought of making good my footing in a strange place,
and in winter, did not make me sad; suffice it to say, that I only saw
my present situation was gloomy, and represented to myself the other
unknown world as light and cheerful. Thus I formed my dreams, to which
I gave myself up exclusively, and promised myself nothing but happiness
and content in the distance.

Closely as I kept these projects a secret from every one else, I could
not hide them from my sister, who, after being very much alarmed about
them at first, was finally consoled when I promised to send after her,
so that she could enjoy with me the brilliant station I was to obtain,
and share my comfort with me.

Michaelmas, so longingly expected, came at last, when I set out with
delight, in company with the bookseller Fleischer and his wife (whose
maiden name was Triller, and who was going to visit her father in
Wittemberg); and I left behind me the worthy city in which I had been
born and bred, with indifference, as if I wished never to set foot in
it again.

Thus, at certain epochs, children part from parents, servants from
masters, _protégés_ from their patrons; and whether it succeed or
not, such an attempt to stand on one's own feet, to make one's self
independent, to live for one's self, is always in accordance with the
will of nature.

[Side-note: Departure for Leipzig.]

We had driven out through the Allerheiligen (_All Saints_) gate, and
had soon left Hanau behind us, after which we reached scenes which
aroused my attention by their novelty, if, at this season of the year,
they offered little that was pleasing. A continual rain had completely
spoiled the roads, which, generally speaking, were not then in such
good order as we find them now; and our journey "was thus neither
pleasant nor happy. Yet I was indebted to this damp weather for the
sight of a natural phenomenon which must be exceedingly rare, for I
have seen nothing like it since, nor have I heard of its being observed
by others. At night, namely, we were driving up a rising ground
between Hanau and Gelhausen, and, although it was dark, we preferred
walking to exposing ourselves to the danger and difficulty of that
part of the road. All at once, in a ravine on the right-hand side of
the way, I saw a sort of amphitheatre, wonderfully illuminated. In a
funnel-shaped space there were innumerable little lights gleaming,
ranged step-fashion over one another, and they shone so brilliantly
that the eye was dazzled. But what stiff more confused the sight
was, that they did not keep still, but jumped about here and there,
as well downwards from above as _vice versâ_, and in every direction.
The most of them, however, remained stationary, and beamed on. It was
only with the greatest reluctance that I suffered myself to be called
away from this spectacle, which I could have wished to examine more
closely. On interrogating the postillion, he indeed knew nothing about
such a phenomenon, but said that there was in the neighbourhood an
old stone-quarry, the excavation of which was filled with water. Now
whether this was a pandemonium of will-o'-the-wisps, or a company of
shining creatures, I will not decide.

The roads through Thuringia were yet worse, and unfortunately, at
night-fall, our coach stuck fast in the vicinity of Auerstädt. We
were far removed from all mankind, and did everything possible to
work ourselves out. I failed not to exert myself zealously, and
might thereby have overstrained the ligaments of my chest; for soon
afterwards I felt a pain, which went off and returned, and did not
leave me entirely until after many years.

Yet on that same night, as if it had been destined for alternate good
and bad luck, I was forced, after an unexpectedly fortunate incident,
to experience a teazing vexation. We met, in Auerstädt, a genteel
married couple, who had also just arrived, having been delayed by a
similar accident; a pleasing, dignified man, in his best years, with a
very handsome wife. They politely persuaded us to sup in their company,
and I felt very happy when the excellent lady addressed a friendly
word to me. But when I was sent out to accelerate the soup which had
been ordered, not having been accustomed to the loss of rest and the
fatigues of travelling, such an unconquerable drowsiness overtook me,
that actually I fell asleep while walking, returned into the room with
my hat on my head, and without remarking that the others were saying
grace, placed myself with quiet unconsciousness behind the chair,
and never dreamed that by my conduct I had come to disturb their
devotions in a very droll way. Madame Fleischer, who lacked neither
spirit nor wit, nor tongue, entreated the strangers, before they had
seated themselves, not to be surprised at anything they might see
here; for that their young fellow-traveller had in his nature much of
the peculiarity of the Quakers, who believe that they cannot honour
God and the king better than with covered heads. The handsome lady,
who could not restrain her laughter, looked prettier than ever in
consequence, and I would have given everything in the world not to have
been the cause of a merriment which was so beautifully becoming in her
countenance. I had, however, scarcely laid aside my hat, than these
persons, in accordance with their polished manners, immediately dropped
the joke, and with the best wine from their bottle-case completely
extinguished sleep, chagrin, and the memory of all past troubles.

[Side-note: Leipzig.]

I arrived in Leipzig just at the time of the fair, from which I derived
particular pleasure: for here I saw before me the continuation of
a state of things belonging to my native city, familiar wares and
traders;--only in other places, and in a different order. I rambled
about the market and the booths with much interest, but my attention
was particularly attracted by the inhabitants of the Eastern countries
in their strange dresses, the Poles and Russians, and above all, the
Greeks, for the sake of whose handsome forms and dignified costume I
often went to the spot.

But this animating bustle was soon over, and now the city itself
appeared before me, with its handsome, high, and uniform houses. It
made a very good impression upon me, and it cannot be denied, that in
general, but especially in the silent moments of Sundays and holidays,
it has something imposing; and when in the moonlight the streets were
half in shadow, half-illuminated, they often invited me to nocturnal
promenades.

In the meantime, as compared with that to which I had hitherto been
accustomed, this new state of affairs was by no means satisfactory.
Leipzig calls up before the spectator no antique time; it is a new,
recently elapsed epoch, testifying commercial activity, comfort and
wealth, which announces itself to us in these monuments. Yet quite to
my taste were the huge-looking buildings, which, fronting two streets,
and embracing a citizen-world within their large court-yards, built
round with lofty walls, are like large castles, nay, even half-cities.
In one of these strange places I quartered myself, namely, in the
Bombshell Tavern (_Teuerkugel_), between the Old and the New Newmarket
(_Neumarkt._) A couple of pleasant rooms looking out upon a court-yard,
which, on account of the thoroughfare, was not without animation, were
occupied by the bookseller Fleischer during the fair; and by me taken
for the rest of the time at a moderate price. As a fellow-lodger I
found a theological student, who was deeply learned in his professional
studies, a sound thinker, but poor, and suffering much from his eyes,
which caused him great anxiety for the future. He had brought this
affliction upon himself by his inordinate reading till the latest dusk
of the evening, and even by moonlight, to save a little oil. Our old
hostess showed herself benevolent to him, always friendly to me, and
careful for us both.

[Side-note: Gellert.]

I now hastened-with my letters of introduction to Hofrath Böhme, who
once a pupil of Maskow, and now his successor, was professor of history
and public law. A little, thick-set, lively man, received me kindly
enough, and introduced me to his wife. Both of them, as well as the
other persons whom I waited on, gave me the pleasantest hopes as to
my future residence; but at first I let no one know of the design I
entertained, although I could scarcely wait for the favourable moment
when I should declare myself free from jurisprudence, and devoted to
the study of the classics. I cautiously waited till the Fleischers
had returned, that my purpose might not be too prematurely betrayed
to my family. But I then went, without delay, to Hofrath Böhme, to
whom, before all, I thought I must confide the matter, and with much
self-importance and boldness of speech disclosed my views to him.
However, I found by no means a good reception of my proposition. As
professor of history and public law, he had a declared hatred for
everything that savoured of the _belles lettres._ Unfortunately he
did not stand on the best footing with those who cultivated them, and
Gellert in particular, in whom I had, awkwardly enough, expressed much
confidence, he could not even endure. To send a faithful student to
those men, therefore, while he deprived himself of one, and especially
under such circumstances, seemed to him altogether out of the question.
He therefore gave me a severe lecture on the spot, in which he
protested that he could not permit such a step without the permission
of my parents, even if he approved of it himself, which was not the
case in this instance. He then passionately inveighed against philology
and the study of languages, but still more against poetical exercises,
which I had indeed allowed to peep out in the back-ground. He finally
concluded that, if I wished to enter more closely into the study of the
ancients, it could be done much better by the way of jurisprudence.
He brought to my recollection many elegant jurists, such as Eberhard,
Otto, and Heineccius, promised me mountains of gold from Roman
antiquities and the history of law, and showed me, clear as the sun,
that I should here be taking no roundabout way, even if afterwards,
on more mature deliberation, and with the consent of my parents, I
should determine to follow out my own plan. He begged me, in a friendly
manner, to think the matter over once more, and to open my mind to him
soon, as it would be necessary to come to a determination at once, on
account of the impending commencement of the lectures.

It was, however, very polite of him not to press me on the spot. His
arguments, and the weight with which he advanced them, had already
convinced my pliant youth, and I now first saw the difficulties and
doubtfulness of a matter which I had privately pictured to myself as so
feasible. Frau Hofrath Böhme invited me to see her shortly afterwards.
I found her alone. She was no longer young, and had very delicate
health, was gentle and tender to an infinite degree, and formed a
decided contrast to her husband, whose good-nature was even clustering.
She spoke of the conversation her husband had lately had with me, and
once more placed the subject before me, in all its bearings, in so
cordial a manner, so affectionately and sensibly, that I could not help
yielding; the few reservations on which I insisted were also agreed
upon by the other side.

Thereupon her husband regulated my hours: for I was to hear lectures on
philosophy, the history of law, the Institutes, and some other matters.
I was content with this; but I carried my point so as to attend
Gellert's history of literature (with Stockhausen for a text-book), and
his _Practicum_ besides.

The reverence and love with which Gellert was regarded by all young
people was extraordinary. I had already visited him, and had been
kindly received by him. Not of tall stature, elegant without being
lean, soft and rather pensive eyes, a very fine forehead, a nose
aquiline, but not too much so, a delicate mouth, a face of an agreeable
oval,--all made his presence pleasing and desirable. It cost some
trouble to reach him His two _Famuli_ appeared like priests who guard a
sanctuary, the access to which is not permitted to everybody, nor at
every time; and such a precaution was very necessary: for he would have
sacrificed his whole time, had he been willing to receive and satisfy
all those who wished to become intimate with him.

At first I attended my lectures assiduously and faithfully: but the
philosophy would not enlighten me at all. In the logic it seemed
strange to me that I had so to tear asunder, isolate, and, as it
were, destroy those operations of the mind which I had performed
with the greatest ease from my youth upwards, and this in order to
see into the right use of them. Of the thing itself, of the world,
and of God, I thought I knew about as much as the professor himself,
and in more places than one the affair seemed to me to come into a
tremendous strait. Yet all went on in tolerable order till towards
Shrovetide, when, in the neighbourhood of Professor Winkler's house on
the _Thomas-place_, the most delicious fritters came hot out of the
pan just at the hour of lecture, and these delayed us so long, that
our note-books became disordered, and the conclusion of them, towards
spring, melted away, together with the snow, and was lost.

It was soon quite as bad with the law lectures: for I already knew
just as much as the professor thought good to communicate to us. My
stubborn industry in writing down the lectures at first, was paralyzed
by degrees, for I found it excessively tedious to pen down once more
that which, partly by question, partly by answer, I had repeated with
my father often enough to retain it for ever in my memory. The harm
which is done when young people at school are advanced too far in many
things, was afterwards manifested still more when time and attention
were diverted from exercises in the languages, and a foundation in what
are, properly speaking, preparatory studies, in order to be applied to
what are called "Realities," which dissipate more than they cultivate,
if they are not methodically and thoroughly taught.

I here mention, by the way, another evil by which students are much
embarrassed. Professors, as well as other men in office, cannot all
be of the same age; but when the younger ones teach, in fact, only
that they may learn, and moreover, it they have talent, anticipate
their age, they acquire their own cultivation altogether at the cost
of their hearers, since these are not instructed in what they really
need, but in that which the professor finds it necessary to elaborate
for himself. Among the oldest professors, on the contrary, many are for
a long time stationary; they deliver on the whole only fixed views,
and, in the details, much that time has already condemned as useless
and false. Between the two arises a sad conflict, in which young minds
are dragged hither and thither, and which can scarcely be set right by
the middle-aged professors, who, though sufficiently instructed and
cultivated, always feel within themselves an active endeavour after
knowledge and reflection.

Now as in this way I learned to know much more than I could digest,
whereby a constantly increasing uncomfortableness was forced upon me,
so also from life I experienced many disagreeable trifles, as indeed
one must always pay one's footing when one changes one's place and
comes into a new position. The first thing that the ladies blamed in me
related to my dress; for I had come from home to the university rather
oddly equipped.

[Side-note: Domestic Tailoring.]

My father, who detested nothing so much as when something happened in
vain, when any one did not know how to make use of his time, or found
no opportunity for turning it to account, carried his economy of time
and abilities so far, that nothing gave him greater pleasure than to
kill two birds with one stone.[2] He had therefore never engaged a
servant who could not be useful to the house in something else. Now, as
he had always written everything with his own hand, and had, latterly,
the convenience of dictating to the young inmate of the house, he
found it most advantageous to have tailors for his domestics, who were
obliged to make good use of their time, as they not only had to make
their own liveries, but the clothes for my father and the children,
besides doing all the mending. My father himself took pains to have the
best cloths and stuffs, by getting fine wares of the foreign merchants
at the fair, and laying them up in store. I still remember well that
he always visited the Herrn von Löwenicht, of Aix-la-Chapelle, and
from my earliest youth made me acquainted with these and other eminent
merchants.

Care was also taken for the fitness of the stuff, and there was a
plentiful stock of different kinds of cloth, serge, and Götting stuff,
besides the requisite lining, so that, as far as the materials were
concerned, we might well venture to be seen. But the form spoiled
almost everything. For if one of our home-tailors was anything of a
clever hand at sewing and making up a coat which had been cut out for
him in masterly fashion, he was now obliged also to cut out the dress
for himself, which did not always succeed to perfection. In addition to
this my father kept whatever belonged to his clothing in very good and
neat order, and preserved more than used it for many years. Thus he had
a predilection for certain old cuts and trimmings, by which our dress
sometimes acquired a strange appearance.

In this same way had the wardrobe which I took with me to the
university been furnished: it was very complete and handsome, and
there was even a laced suit amongst the rest. Already accustomed to
this kind of attire, I thought myself sufficiently well dressed; but
it was not long before my female friends, first by gentle raillery,
then by sensible remonstrances, convinced me that I looked as if I had
dropped down out of another world. Much as I felt vexed at this, I did
not at first see how I could help myself. But when Herr von Masuren,
the favourite poetical country squire, once entered the theatre in a
similar costume, and was heartily laughed at, more by reason of his
external than his internal absurdity, I took courage, and ventured at
once to exchange my whole wardrobe for a new-fashioned one, suited to
the place, by which, however, it shrunk considerably.

After this trial was surmounted, a new one was to make its appearance,
which proved to be far more unpleasant, because it concerned a matter
which one does not so easily put off and exchange.

I had been born and bred in the Upper-German dialect, and although
my father always laboured after a certain purity of language, and,
from our youth upwards, had made us children attentive to what may
be really called the defects of that idiom, and so prepared us for a
better maimer of speaking, I retained nevertheless many deeper-seated
peculiarities, which, because they pleased me by their _naïveté_, I was
fond of making conspicuous, and thus every time I used them incurred
a severe reprimand from my new fellow-townsmen. The Upper-German, and
perhaps chiefly he who lives by the Rhine and Maine (for great rivers,
like the sea-coast, always have something animating about them),
expresses himself much in similes and allusions, and makes use of
proverbial sayings with a native common-sense aptness. In both cases
he is often blunt, but when one sees the drift of the expression, it
is always appropriate; only something, to be sure, may often slip in,
which proves offensive to a more delicate ear.

[Side-note: Provincial Dialect.]

Every province loves its own dialect: for it is, properly speaking,
the element in which the soul draws its breath. But every one knows
with what obstinacy the Misnian dialect has contrived to domineer over
the rest, and even, for a long time, to exclude them. We have suffered
for many years under this pedantic tyranny, and only by reiterated
struggles have all the provinces again established themselves in
their ancient rights. What a lively young man had to endure from this
continual tutoring, may be easily inferred by any one who reflects
that modes of thought, imagination, feeling, native character, must be
sacrificed with the pronunciation which one at last consents to alter.
And this intolerable demand was made by men and women of education,
whose convictions I could not adopt, whose injustice I believed I
felt, though I was unable to make it plain to myself. Allusions to the
pithy biblical texts were to be forbidden me, as well as the use of
the honest-hearted expressions from the Chronicles. I had to forget
that I had read the _Kaiser von Geisersberg_, and eschew the use of
proverbs, which nevertheless, instead of much fiddle-faddle, just hit
the nail upon the head;--all this, which I had appropriated to myself
with youthful ardour, I was now to do without; I felt myself paralyzed
to the core, and scarcely knew any more how I had to express myself on
the commonest things. I was told, besides, that one should speak as one
writes, and write as one speaks; while, to me, speaking and writing
seemed once for all two different things, each of which might well
maintain its own rights. And even in the Misnian dialect had I to hear
many things which would have made no great figure on paper.

Every one who perceives in this the influence which men and women
of education, the learned, and other persons who take pleasure in
refined society, so decidedly exercise over a young student, would
be immediately convinced that we were in Leipzig, even if it had not
been mentioned. Each one of the German universities has a particular
character: for, as no universal cultivation can pervade our fatherland,
every place adheres to its own fashion, and carries out, even to the
last, its own characteristic peculiarities; exactly the same thing
holds good of the universities. In Jena and Halle roughness had been
carried to the highest pitch: bodily strength, skill in fighting, the
wildest self-help was there the order of the day; and such a state of
affairs can only be maintained and propagated by the most universal
riot. The relations of the students to the inhabitants of those cities,
various as they might be, nevertheless agreed in this, that the wild
stranger had no regard for the citizen, and looked upon himself as a
peculiar being, privileged to all sorts of freedom and insolence. In
Leipzig, on the contrary, a student could scarcely be anything else
than polite, as soon as he wished to stand on any footing at all with
the rich, well-bred, and punctilious inhabitants.

All politeness, indeed, when it does not present itself as the
flowering of a great and comprehensive mode of life, must appear
restrained, stationary, and from some points of view, perhaps, absurd;
and so those wild huntsmen from the Saale[3] thought they had a great
superiority over the tame shepherds on the Pleisse.[4] Zachariä's
_Renommist_ will always be a valuable document, from which the manner
of life and thought at that time rises visibly forth; as in general
his poems must be welcome to every one who wishes to form for himself
a conception of the then prevailing state of social life and manners,
which was indeed feeble, but amiable on account of its innocence and
childlike simplicity.

All manners which result from the given relations of a common existence
are indestructible, and, in my time, many things still reminded us
of Zachariä's epic poem. Only one of our fellow-academicians thought
himself rich and independent enough to snap his fingers at public
opinion. He drank acquaintance with all the hackney-coachmen, whom he
allowed to sit inside the coach as if they were gentlemen, while he
drove them on the box, thought it a great joke to upset them now and
then, and contrived to satisfy them for their smashed vehicles as well
as for their occasional bruises; but otherwise he did no harm to any
one, seeming only to make a mock of the public _en masse._ Once, on a
most beautiful promenade-day, he and a comrade of his seized upon the
donkeys of the miller in St. Thomas's-square; well-dressed, and in
their shoes and stockings, they rode around the city with the greatest
solemnity, stared at by all the promenaders, with whom the glacis was
swarming. When some sensible persons remonstrated with him on the
subject, he assured them, quite unembarrassed, that he only wanted to
see how the Lord Christ might have looked in a like case. Yet he found
no imitators, and few companions.

[Side-note: Student-life at Leipzig.]

For the student of any wealth and standing had every reason to
show himself attentive to the mercantile class, and to be the more
solicitous about the proper external forms, as the colony[5] exhibited
a model of French manners. The professors, opulent both from their
private property and from their liberal salaries, were not dependent
upon their scholars, and many subjects of the state, educated at the
Government schools or other gymnasia, and hoping for preferment, did
not venture to throw off the traditional customs. The neighbourhood
of Dresden, the attention paid to us from thence, and the true piety
of the superintendent of the course of study, could not be without a
moral, nay, a religious influence.

At first this kind of life was not repugnant to me; my letters of
introduction had given me the _entrée_ into good families, whose
circle of relatives also received me well. But as I was soon forced
to feel that the company had much to find fault with in me, and that
after dressing myself in their fashion, I must now talk according to
their tongue also, and as, moreover, I could plainly see that I was,
on the other hand, but little benefited by the instruction and mental
improvement I had promised myself from my academical residence, I began
to be lazy, and to neglect the social duties of visiting, and other
attentions, and indeed I should have sooner withdrawn from all such
connexions, had not fear and esteem bound me fast to Hofrath Böhme,
and confidence and affection to his wife. The husband, unfortunately,
had not the happy gift of dealing with young people, of winning their
confidence, and of guiding them, for the moment, as occasion might
require. When I visited him I never got any good by it; his wife, on
the contrary, showed a genuine interest in me. Her ill health kept
her constantly at home. She invited me to spend many an evening with
her, and knew how to direct and improve me in many little external
particulars; for my manners were good, indeed, but I was not yet master
of what is properly termed _étiquette._ Only one female friend spent
the evenings with her; but she was more dictatorial and pedantic, for
which reason she displeased me excessively, and, out of spite to her, I
often resumed those unmannerly habits from which the other had already
weaned me. Nevertheless she always had patience enough with me, taught
me piquet, ombre, and similar games, the knowledge and practice of
which is held indispensable in society.

But it was in the matter of taste that Madame Böhme had the greatest
influence upon me; in a negative way truly, yet one in which she agreed
perfectly with the critics. The Gottsched waters[6] had inundated the
German world with a true deluge, which threatened to rise up even
over the highest mountains. It takes a long time for such a flood to
subside again, for the mire to dry away; and as in any epoch there
are numberless aping poets, so the imitation of the flat and watery
produced a chaos, of which now scarcely a notion remains. To find out
that trash was trash was hence the greatest sport, yea, the triumph
of the critics of those days. Whoever had only a little common sense,
was superficially acquainted with the ancients, and was somewhat
more familiar with the moderns, thought himself provided with a
standard scale which he could everywhere apply. Madame Böhme was an
educated woman, who opposed the trivial, weak, and commonplace; she
was, besides, the wife of a man who lived on bad terms with poetry
in general, and would not even allow that of which she perhaps might
have somewhat approved. She listened, indeed, for some time, with
patience, when I ventured to recite to her the verse or prose of famous
poets, who already stood in good repute,--for then, as always, I knew
by heart everything that chanced in any degree to please me; but her
complaisance was not of long duration. The first whom she outrageously
abused were the poets of the Weisse school, who were just then often
quoted with great applause, and had delighted me very particularly. If
I looked more closely into the matter, I could not say she was wrong.
I had sometimes even ventured to repeat to her, though anonymously,
some of my own poems; but these fared no better than the rest of the
set. And thus, in a short time, the beautiful variegated meadows at the
foot of the German Parnassus, where I was fond of luxuriating, were
mercilessly mowed down, and I was even compelled to toss about the
drying hay myself, and to ridicule that as lifeless which, a short time
before, had given me such lively joy.

[Side-note: German Poetry.]

Without knowing it, Professor Morus came to strengthen her
instructions. He was an uncommonly gentle and friendly man, with whom I
became acquainted at the table of Hofrath Ludwig, and who received me
very pleasantly when I begged the privilege of visiting him. Now while
making inquiries of him concerning antiquity, I did not conceal from
him what delighted me among the modems; when he spoke about such things
with more calmness, but, what was still worse, with more profundity
than Madame Böhme; and he thus opened my eyes, at first to my greatest
chagrin, but afterwards to my surprise, and at last to my edification.

Besides this, there came the _Jeremiads_, with which Gellert, in his
course, was wont to warn us against poetry. He wished only for prose
essays, and always criticised these first. Verses he treated as a sorry
addition, and what was the worst of all, even my prose found little
favour in his eyes; for, after my old fashion, I used always to lay,
as the foundation, a little romance, which I loved to work out in the
epistolary form. The subjects were impassioned, the style went beyond
ordinary prose, and the contents probably did not display any very
deep knowledge of mankind in the author; and so I stood in very little
favour with our professor, although he carefully looked over my labours
as well as those of the others, corrected them with red ink, and here
and there added a moral remark. Many leaves of this kind, which I kept
for a long time with satisfaction, have unfortunately, in the course of
years, at last disappeared from among my papers.

If elderly persons wish to play the pedagogue properly, they should
neither prohibit nor render disagreeable to a young man anything which
gives him pleasure, of whatever kind it may be, unless, at the same
time, they have something else to put in its place, or can contrive a
substitute. Everybody protested against my tastes and inclinations;
and, on the other hand, what they commended to me, lay either so far
from me that I could not perceive its excellencies, or stood so near me
that I thought it not a whit better than what they inveighed against.
I thus became thoroughly perplexed on the subject, and promised myself
the best results from a lecture of Ernesti's on _Cicero de Oratore._ I
learned something, indeed, from this lecture, but was not enlightened
on the subject which particularly concerned me. I required a standard
of opinion, and thought I perceived that nobody possessed it; for no
one agreed with another, even when they brought forward examples; and
where were we to get a settled judgment, when they managed to reckon
up against a man like Wieland so many faults in his amiable writings,
which so completely captivated us younger folks?

Amid this manifold distraction, this dismemberment of my existence and
my studies, it happened that I took my dinners at Hofrath Ludwig's. He
was a medical man, a botanist, and his company, with the exception of
Morus, consisted of physicians just commencing or near the completion
of their studies. Now during these hours I heard no other conversation
than about medicine or natural history, and my imagination was drawn
over into quite a new field. I heard the names of Haller, Linnæus,
Buffon, mentioned with great respect; and even if disputes often arose
about mistakes into which it was said they had fallen, all agreed in
the end to honour the acknowledged abundance of their merits. The
subjects were entertaining and important, and enchained my attention.
By degrees I became familiar with many names and a copious terminology,
which I caught up the more willingly as I was afraid to write down a
rhyme, however spontaneously it presented itself, or to read a poem,
for I was fearful that it might please me at the time, and that perhaps
immediately afterwards, like so much else, I should be forced to
pronounce it bad.

[Side-note: Destruction of Juvenile Poems.]

This uncertainty of taste and judgment disquieted me more and more
every day, so that at last I fell into despair. I had brought with me
those of my youthful labours which I thought the best, partly because I
hoped to get some credit by them, partly that I might be able to test
my progress with greater certainty; but I found myself in the miserable
situation in which one is placed when a complete change of mind is
required,--a renunciation of all that one has hitherto loved and found
good. However, after some time, and many struggles, I conceived so
great a contempt for my labours, begun and ended, that one day I burnt
up poetry and prose, plans, sketches, and projects all together on the
kitchen hearth, and threw our good old landlady into no small fright
and anxiety by the smoke which filled the whole house.


[1] This word, which signifies something like our "bully," is specially
used to designate a fighting student.--_Trans._

[2] Literally: "to strike two flies with one flapper."--_Trans._

[3] The river on which Halle is built.--_Trans._

[4] The river that flows by Leipzig.--_Trans._

[5] Leipzig was so called, because a large and influential portion of
its citizens were sprung from a colony of Huguenots, who settled there
after the revocation of the edict of Nantes_.--American Note._

[6] That is to say, the influence of Gottsched on German literature, of
which more is said in the next book.--_Trans._




SEVENTH BOOK.


About the condition of German literature at that time so much has
been written, and that so sufficiently, that every one who takes any
interest in it can be completely informed; the judgments of it are now
pretty well agreed; and what at present I intend to say piece-meal
and disconnectedly concerning it, relates not so much to how it was
constituted in itself, as to how it stood towards me. I will therefore
first speak of those things by which the public is particularly
excited; of those two hereditary foes of all comfortable life, and
of all cheerful, self-sufficient, living poetry:--I mean, satire and
criticism.

In quiet times every one will live after his own fashion; the citizen
will carry on his trade or his business, and enjoy the fruits of it
afterwards; thus will the author too willingly compose something,
publish his labours, and since he thinks he has done something good
and useful, hope for praise, if not reward. In this tranquillity the
citizen is disturbed by the satirist, the author by the critic, and
peaceful society is thus put into a disagreeable agitation.

The literary epoch in which I was born was developed out of the
preceding one by opposition. Germany, so long inundated by foreign
people, interpenetrated by other nations, directed to foreign languages
in learned and diplomatic transactions, could not possibly cultivate
her own. Together with so many new ideas, innumerable strange words
were obtruded necessarily and unnecessarily upon her, and even for
objects already known, people were induced to make use of foreign
expressions and turns of language. The German, having run wild for
nearly two hundred years in an unhappy tumultuary state, went to school
to the French to learn manners, and to the Romans in order to express
himself properly. But this was to be done in the mother-tongue, when
the literal application of those idioms, and their half-Germanization,
made both the social and business style ridiculous. Besides this,
they adopted without moderation the similes of the southern languages,
and employed them most extravagantly. Just so they transferred the
stately deportment of the prince-like citizens of Rome to the learned
German small-town officers, and were at home nowhere, least of all with
themselves.

But as in this epoch works of genius had already appeared, the German
sense of freedom and joy also began to stir itself. This, accompanied
by a genuine earnestness, insisted that men should write purely and
naturally, without the intermixture of foreign words, and as common
intelligible sense dictated. By these praiseworthy endeavours,
however, the doors and gates were thrown open to an extended national
insipidity, nay, the dike was dug through by which the great deluge was
shortly to rush in. Meanwhile, a stiff pedantry long stood its ground
in all the four faculties, until at last, much later, it fled for
refuge from one of them into another.

Men of parts, children of nature looking freely about them, had
therefore two objects on which they could exercise themselves, against
which they could labour, and, as the matter was of no great importance,
give a vent to their petulance; these were: a language disfigured by
foreign words, forms, and turns of speech on the one hand, and the
worthlessness of such writings as had been careful to keep themselves
free from those faults on the other, though it occurred to nobody, that
while they were battling against one evil, the other was called on for
assistance.

[Side-note: Liskow.]

LISKOW, a daring young man, first ventured to attack by name a shallow,
silly writer, whose awkward demeanour soon gave him an opportunity
to proceed still more severely. He then went further, and constantly
aimed his scorn at particular persons and objects, whom he despised and
sought to render despicable, nay, even persecuted them with passionate
hatred. But his career was short; for he soon died, and was gradually
forgotten as a restless, irregular youth. The talent and character
shown in what he did, although he had accomplished little, may have
seemed valuable to his countrymen: for the Germans have always shown a
peculiar pious kindliness to talents of good promise, when prematurely
cut off. Suffice it to say, that Liskow was very early praised and
recommended to us as an excellent satirist, who could have attained a
rank even above the universally-beloved Rabener. Here, indeed, we saw
ourselves no better off than before: for we could discover nothing in
his writings, except that he had found the silly, silly, which seemed
to us quite a matter of course.

RABENER, well educated, grown up under good scholastic instruction,
of a cheerful, and by no means passionate or malicious disposition,
took up general satire. His censure of the so-called vices and follies
springs from the clear views of a quiet common sense, and from a fixed
moral conception of what the world ought to be. His denunciation of
faults and failings is harmless and cheerful; and in order to excuse
even the slight boldness of his writings, it is supposed that the
improving of fools by ridicule is no fruitless undertaking.

Rabener's personal character will not easily appear again. As an able,
punctual man of business, he does his duty, and thus gains the good
opinion of his fellow-townsmen and the confidence of his superiors:
along with which, he gives himself up to the enjoyment of a pleasant
contempt for all that immediately surrounds him. Pedantic _literati_,
vain youngsters, every sort of narrowness and conceit, he banters
rather than satirizes, and even his banter expresses no contempt. Just
in the same way does he jest about his own condition, his misfortune,
his life, and his death.

There is little of the æsthetic in the manner in which this writer
treats his subjects. In external forms he is indeed varied enough, but
throughout he makes too much use of direct irony, namely, in praising
the blameworthy and blaming the praiseworthy, whereas this figure of
speech should be used but extremely seldom; for, in the long run, it
becomes annoying to clear-sighted men, perplexes the weak, while indeed
it pleases the great middle class, who, without any special expense
of mind, can fancy themselves more knowing than others. But all that
he brings before us, and however he does it, alike bears witness to
his rectitude, cheerfulness, and equanimity, so that we always feel
prepossessed in his favour. The unbounded applause of his own times was
a consequence of such moral excellencies.

[Side-note: Rabener.]

That people looked for originals to his general descriptions and found
them, was natural; that individuals complained of him, followed from
the above; his over-long apologies that his satire is not personal,
prove the spite which has been provoked. Some of his letters crown him
at once as a man and an author. The confidential epistle in which
he describes the siege of Dresden, and how he loses his house, his
effects, his writings, and his wigs, without having his equanimity
in the least shaken or his cheerfulness clouded, is highly valuable,
although his contemporaries and fellow-citizens could not forgive him
his happy turn of mind. The letter where he speaks of the decay of his
strength and of his approaching death is in the highest degree worthy
of respect, and Rabener deserves to be honoured as a saint by all
cheerful intelligent men, who cheerfully resign themselves to earthly
events.

I tear myself away from him reluctantly, yet I would make this remark:
his satire refers throughout to the middle-class; he lets us see here
and there that he is also well acquainted with the higher ranks, but
does not hold it advisable to come in contact with them. It may be
said, that he has had no successor, that no one has been found who
could consider himself equal, or even similar to him.

Now for criticism! and first of all for the theoretic attempts. It is
not going too far when we say that the ideal had, at that time, escaped
out of the world into religion; it scarcely even made its appearance in
moral philosophy; of a highest principle of art no one had a notion.
They put Gottsched's _Critical Art of Poetry_ into our hands; it was
useful and instructive enough, for it gave us a historical information
of all the kinds of poetry, as well as of rhythm and its different
movements; the poetic genius was presupposed! But besides that the poet
was to have acquirements and even learning, he should possess taste,
and everything else of that kind. They directed us at last to Horace's
_Art of Poetry_; we gazed at single golden maxims of this invaluable
work, but did not know in the least what to do with it as a whole, or
how we should use it.

The Swiss stepped forth as Gottsched's antagonists; they must
take it into their heads to do something different, to accomplish
something better: accordingly we heard that they were, in fact,
superior. BREITINGER'S _Critical Art of Poetry_ was taken in hand.
Here we reached a wider field, but, properly speaking, only a greater
labyrinth, which was so much the more tiresome, as an able man, in
whom we had confidence, was driving us about in it. Let a brief review
justify these words.

For poetry in itself they had been able to find no fundamental axiom;
it was too spiritual and too volatile. Painting, an art which one could
hold fast with one's eyes, and follow step by step with the external
senses, seemed more favourable for such an end; the English and French
had already theorized about plastic art, and by a comparison drawn from
this, it was thought that poetry might be grounded. The former placed
images before the eyes, the latter before the fancy; poetical images,
therefore, were the first thing which was taken into consideration.
People began with comparisons, descriptions followed, and only that was
expressed which had always been apparent to the external senses.

Images, then! But where should these images be got except from nature?
The painter professedly imitated nature; why not the poet also? But
nature, as she lies before us, cannot be imitated: she contains
so much that is insignificant and worthless, that one must make a
selection; but what determines the choice? one must select that which
is important; but what is important?

To answer this question the Swiss may have taken a long time to
consider: for they came to a notion, which is indeed singular, but
clever, and even comical, inasmuch as they say, the new is always the
most important: and after they have considered this for a while, they
discover that the marvellous is always newer than everything else.

They had now pretty well collected their poetical requisitions; but
they had still to consider that the marvellous might also be empty and
without relation to man. But this relation, demanded as necessary, must
be a moral one, from which the improvement of mankind should manifestly
follow, and thus a poem had reached its utmost aim when, with
everything else accomplished, it was useful besides. They now wished to
test the different kinds of poetry according to all these requisites;
those which imitated nature, besides being marvellous, and at the same
time of a moral aim and use, were to rank as the first and highest. And
after much deliberation this great preeminence was at last ascribed,
with the highest degree of conviction, to Æsop's fables!

Strange as such a deduction may now appear, it had the most decided
influence on the best minds. That GELLERT and subsequently LICHTWER
devoted themselves to this department, that even LESSING attempted to
labour in it, that; so many others turned their talents towards it,
speaks for the confidence which this species of poetry had gained.
Theory and practice always act upon each other; one can see from their
works what is the men's opinion; and, from their opinions, predict what
they will do.

[Side-note: Bodmer--Breitinger--Guenther.]

Yet we must not dismiss our Swiss theory without doing it justice.
BODMER, with all the pains he took, remained theoretically and
practically a child all his life. BREITINGER was an able, learned,
sagacious man, whom when he looked rightly about him, the essentials
of a poem did not all escape; nay, it can be shown that he may have
dimly felt the deficiencies of his system. Remarkable, for instance,
is his query:--"Whether a certain descriptive poem by König, on the
_Review-camp of Augustus the Second_, is properly a poem?" and the
answer to it displays good sense. But it may serve for his complete
justification that he, starting from a false point, on a circle almost
run out already, still struck upon the main principle, and at the end
of his book finds himself compelled to recommend as additions, so to
speak, the representation of manners, character, passions, in short,
the whole inner man; to which, indeed, poetry pre-eminently belongs.

It may well be imagined into what perplexity young minds felt
themselves thrown by such dislocated maxims, half-understood laws,
and shivered up dogmas. We adhered to examples, and there, too, were
no better off; foreigners as well as the ancients stood too far
from us, and from the best native poets always peeped out a decided
individuality, to the good points of which we could not lay claim, and
into the faults of which we could not but be afraid of falling. For him
who felt anything productive in himself it was a desperate condition.

When one considers closely what was wanting in the German poetry,
it was a material, and that, too, a national one; there was never a
lack of talent. Here we make mention only of GUENTHER, who may be
called a poet in the full sense of the word. A decided talent, endowed
with sensuousness, imagination, memory, the gifts of conception and
representation, productive in the highest degree, ready at rhythm,
ingenious, witty, and of varied information besides;--he possessed,
in short, all the requisites for creating, by means of poetry, a
second life within life, even within common real life. We admire the
great facility with which, in his occasional poems, he elevates all
circumstances by the feelings, and embellishes them with suitable
sentiments, images, and historical and fabulous traditions. Their
roughness and wildness belong to his time, his mode of life, and
especially to his character, or if one would have it so, his want of
fixed character. He did not know how to curb himself, and so his life,
like his poetry, melted away from him.

By his vacillating conduct, Günther had trifled away the good fortune
of being appointed at the court of Augustus the Second, where, in
addition to every other species of ostentation, they were also looking
about for a court-poet, who could give elevation and grace to their
festivities, and immortalize a transitory pomp. VON KOENIG was more
mannerly and more fortunate; he filled this post with dignity and
applause.

In all sovereign states the material for poetry comes downwards from
above, and the _Review-camp at Mühlberg_ (_Das Lustlager bei Mühlberg_)
was, perhaps, the first worthy object, provincial, if not national,
which presented itself to a poet. Two kings saluting one another in the
presence of a great host, their whole courts and military state around
them, well-appointed troops, a mock-fight, _fêtes_ of all kinds,--this
is business enough for the outward sense, and overflowing material for
delineating and descriptive poetry.

This subject had, indeed, the internal defect, that it was only pomp
and show, from which no real action could result. None except the
very first distinguished themselves, and even if they had done so,
the poet could not render any one conspicuous lest he should offend
the others. He had to consult the _Court and State Calendar_, and the
delineation of the persons therefore went off pretty drily; nay, even
his contemporaries very strongly reproached him with having described
the horses better than the men. But should not this redound to his
credit, that he showed his art just where an object for it presented
itself? The main difficulty, too, seems soon to have manifested itself
to him--since the poem never advanced beyond the first canto.

[Side-note: Schlosser.]

Amidst such studies and reflections, an unexpected event surprised me,
and frustrated my laudable design of becoming acquainted with our new
literature from the beginning. My countryman, JOHN GEORGE SCHLOSSER,
after spending his academical years with industry and exertion, had
repaired to Frankfort-on-the-Maine, in the customary profession of an
advocate; but his mind, aspiring and seeking after the universal, could
not reconcile itself to this situation for many reasons. He accepted,
without hesitation, an office as private secretary to the Duke LUDWIG
of WURTEMBERG, who resided in Treptow; for the Prince was named among
those great men who, in a noble and independent manner, purposed to
enlighten themselves, their families, and the world, and to unite for
higher aims. It was this Prince Ludwig who, to ask advice about the
education of his children, had written to Rousseau, whose well-known
answer began with the suspicious-looking phrase--"_Si j'avais le
malheur d'être né prince._"

Not only in the affairs of the Prince, but also in the education of
his children, Schlosser was now willingly to assist in word and deed,
if not to superintend them. This noble young man, who harboured the
best will, and laboured after a perfect purity of morals, would have
easily kept men from him by a certain dry austerity, if his fine and
rare literary cultivation, his knowledge of languages, and his facility
at expressing himself by writing, both in verse and prose, had not
attracted every one, and made living with him more agreeable. It had
been announced to me that he would pass through Leipzig, and I expected
him with longing. He came and put up at a little inn or wine-house
that stood in the _Brühl_ (Marsh), and the host of which was named
Schönkopf. This man had a Frankfort woman for his wife, and although
he entertained few persons during the rest of the year, and could
lodge no guests in his little house, yet at fair-time he was visited
by many Frankforters, who used to eat, and, in case of need, even take
quarters there also. Thither I hastened to seek after Schlosser, when
he had sent to inform me of his arrival. I scarcely remembered having
seen him before, and found a young, well-formed man, with a round,
compressed face, without the features losing their sharpness on that
account. The form of his rounded forehead, between black eyebrows and
locks, indicated earnestness, sternness, and perhaps obstinacy. He
was, in a certain measure, the opposite of myself, and this very thing
doubtless laid the foundation of our lasting friendship. I had the
greatest respect for his talents, the more so as I very well saw that
in the certainty with which he acted and produced, he was completely my
superior. The respect and the confidence which I showed him confirmed
his affection, and increased the indulgence he was compelled to have
for my lively, impetuous, and ever-excitable disposition, in such
contrast with his own. He studied the English writers diligently; Pope,
if not his model, was his aim, and in opposition to that author's
_Essay on Man_, he had written a poem in like form and measure, which
was to give the Christian religion the triumph over the deism of the
other work. From the great store of papers which he carried with
him, he showed me poetical and prose compositions in all languages,
which, as they challenged me to imitation, once more gave me infinite
disquietude. Yet I contrived to help myself immediately by activity.
I wrote German, French, English and Italian poems, addressed to him,
the subject-matter of which I took from our conversations, which were
always important and instructive.

Schlosser did not wish to leave Leipzig without having seen face to
face the men who had a name. I willingly took him to those I knew;
with those whom I had not yet visited, I in this way became honourably
acquainted, since he was received with distinction as a well-informed
man of education, of already established character, and well knew how
to pay for the outlay of conversation. I cannot pass over our visit to
GOTTSCHED, as it exemplifies the character and manners of that man. He
lived very respectably in the first story of the Golden Bear, where the
elder Breitkopf, on account of the great advantage which Gottsched's
writings, translations, and other aids had brought to the trade, had
promised him a lodging for life.

We were announced. The servant led us into a large chamber, saying his
master would come immediately. Now whether we misunderstood a gesture
which he made, I cannot say; it is enough, we thought he directed us
into an adjoining room. We entered, and to a singular scene; for, on
the instant, Gottsched, that tall, broad, gigantic man, came in at the
opposite door in a morning-gown of green damask lined with red taffeta;
but his monstrous head was bald and uncovered. This, however, was to
be immediately provided for; the servant sprang in at a side-door
with a great full-bottomed wig in his hand (the curls came down to
the elbows), and handed the head-ornament to his master with gestures
of terror. Gottsched, without manifesting the least vexation, raised
the wig from the servant's arm with his left, hand, and while he very
dexterously swung it up on his head, gave the poor fellow such a box
on the ear with his right paw, that the latter, as often happens in a
comedy, went spinning out at the door; whereupon the respectable old
grandfather invited us quite gravely to be seated, and kept up a pretty
long discourse with good grace.

[Side-note: Fellow-boarders at Leipzig.]

As long as Schlosser remained in Leipzig, I dined daily with him, and
became acquainted with a very pleasant set of boarders. Some Livonians,
and the son of HERMANN (chief court-preacher in Dresden), afterwards
burgermaster in Leipzig, and their tutor, HOFRATH PFEIL, author of
the _Count von P._, a continuation of Gellert's _Swedish Countess_;
ZACHARIÆ, a brother of the poet; and KREBEL, editor of geographical and
genealogical manuals; all these were polite, cheerful, and friendly
men. Zachariä was the most quiet; Pfeil, an elegant man, who had
something almost diplomatic about him, yet without affectation, and
with great good-humour; Krebel, a genuine Falstaff, tall, corpulent,
fair, with prominent, merry eyes, as bright as the sky, always happy
and in good spirits. These persons all treated me in the most handsome
manner, partly on Schlosser's account--partly, too, on account of
my own frank good-humour and obliging disposition; and it needed no
great persuasion to make me partake of their table in future. In fact,
I remained with them after Schlosser's departure, deserted Ludwig's
table, and found myself so much the better off in this society, which
was limited to a certain number, as I was very well pleased with the
daughter of the family, a very neat, pretty girl, and had opportunities
to exchange friendly glances with her,--a comfort which I had neither
sought nor found by accident since the mischance with Gretchen. I
spent the dinner-hours with my friends cheerfully and profitably.
Krebel, indeed, loved me, and continued to teaze me and stimulate me in
moderation; Pfeil, on the contrary, showed his earnest affection for me
by trying to guide and settle my judgment upon many points.

During this intercourse, I perceived through conversation, through
examples, and through my own reflections, that the first step in
delivering ourselves from the wishy-washy, long-winded, empty epoch,
could be taken only by definiteness, precision, and brevity. In the
style which had hitherto prevailed, one could not distinguish the
commonplace from what was better, since all were brought down to a
level with each other. Authors had already tried to escape from this
widespread disease, with more or less success. HALLER and RAMLER were
inclined to compression by nature; LESSING and WIELAND were led to
it by reflection. The former became by degrees quite epigrammatical
in his poems, terse in _Minna_, laconic in _Emilia Galotti_,--it was
not till afterwards that he returned to that serene _naïveté_ which
becomes him so well in _Nathan._ Wieland, who had been occasionally
prolix in _Agathon_, _Don Sylvio_, and the _Comic Tales_, becomes
condensed and precise to a wonderful degree, as well as exceedingly
graceful, in _Musarion_ and _Idris._ KLOPSTOCK, in the first cantos
of the _Messiah_, is not without diffuseness; in his _Odes_ and other
minor poems he appears compressed, as also in his tragedies. By
his emulation of the ancients, especially Tacitus, he sees himself
constantly forced into narrower limits, by which he at last becomes
obscure and unpalatable. GERSTENBERG, a fine but eccentric talent,
also distinguishes himself; his merit is appreciated, but on the
whole he gives little pleasure. GLEIM, diffuse and easy by nature,
is scarcely once concise in his war-songs. RAMLER is properly more
a critic than a poet. He begins to collect what the Germans have
accomplished in lyric poetry. He now finds that scarcely one poem
fully satisfies him; he must leave out, arrange, and alter, that the
things may have some shape or other. By this means he makes himself
almost as many enemies as there are poets and amateurs, since every
one, properly speaking, recognizes himself only in his defects; and
the public interests itself sooner for a faulty individuality than
for that which is produced or amended according to a universal law of
taste. Rhythm lay yet in the cradle, and no one knew of a method to
shorten its childhood. Poetical prose came into the ascendant. GESSNER
and KLOPSTOCK excited many imitators: others, again, still demanded an
intelligible metre, and translated this prose into rhythm. But even
these gave nobody satisfaction; for they were obliged to omit and
add, and the prose original always passed for the better of the two.
But the more, with all this, conciseness is aimed at, the more does a
judgment become possible, since that which is important, being more
closely compressed, allows a certain comparison at last. It happened,
also, at the same time, that many kinds of truly poetical forms arose;
for as they tried to represent only what was necessary in the objects
they wished to imitate, they were forced to do justice to every one
of these; and in this manner, though no one did it consciously, the
modes of representation multiplied themselves, among which, indeed,
were some which were really caricatures, while many an attempt proved
unsuccessful.

[Side-note: Wieland.]

Without question, WIELAND possessed the finest natural gifts of all. He
had early cultivated himself thoroughly in those ideal regions where
youth so readily lingers; but when, by what is called experience, by
the events of the world and women, these were rendered distasteful
to him, he threw himself on the side of the actual, and pleased
himself and others with the contest of the two worlds, where, in light
skirmishing between jest and earnest, his talent displayed itself most
beautifully. How many of his brilliant productions fall into the time
of my academic years! _Musarion_ had the most effect upon me, and I
can yet remember the place and the very spot where I got sight of the
first proof-sheet, which Oeser gave me. Here it was that I believed I
saw antiquity again living and fresh. Everything that is plastic in
Wieland's genius here showed itself in its highest perfection; and
when that Phanias-Timon, condemned to an unhappy insipidity, finally
reconciles himself to his mistress and to the world, one can well, with
him, live through the misanthropical epoch. For the rest, we willingly
conceded to these works a cheerful aversion from those exalted
sentiments, which, by reason of their easy misapplication to life,
are often open to the suspicion of dreaminess. We pardoned the author
for prosecuting with ridicule what we held as true and reverend, the
more readily, as he thereby gave us to understand that it caused him
continual trouble.

How miserably criticism then received such labours may be seen from
the first volumes of the _Universal German Library._ Of the _Comic
Tales_ there is honourable mention; but there is no trace of any
insight into the character of the kind of poetry. The reviewer, like
every one at that time, had formed his taste on examples. He never
takes it into consideration that, in a judgment of such parodistical
works, one must first of all have before one's eyes the original noble,
beautiful object, in order to see whether the parodist has really
gotten from it a weak and comical side, whether he has borrowed
anything from it, or, under the appearance of such an imitation, has
perhaps given us an excellent invention of his own. Of all this there
is not a notion, but the poems are praised and blamed by passages. The
reviewer, as he himself confesses, has marked so much that pleased
him, that he cannot quote it all in print. When they even meet the
highly meritorious translation of Shakspeare with the exclamation:
"By rights, a man like Shakspeare should not have been translated at
all!" it will be understood, without further remark, how infinitely
the _Universal German Library_ was behindhand in matters of taste, and
that young people, animated by true feeling, had to look about them for
other guiding stars. The material which, in this manner, more or less
determined the form, the Germans sought everywhere. They had handled
few national subjects, or none at all. Schlegel's _Hermann_ only showed
the way. The idyllic tendency extended itself without end. The want of
distinctive character with Gessner, with all his great gracefulness and
childlike heartiness, made every one think that he could do something
of the same kind. Just in the same manner, out of the more generally
human, some snatch those poems which should have portrayed a foreign
nationality, as, for instance, the Jewish pastoral poems, those on the
patriarchs altogether, and whatever else related to the Old Testament.
Bodmer's _Noachide_ was a perfect symbol of the watery deluge that
swelled high around the German Parnassus, and which abated but slowly.
The leading-strings of Anacreon likewise allowed innumerable mediocre
geniuses to reel about at large. The precision of Horace compelled the
Germans, though but slowly, to conform to him. Comic heroic poems,
mostly after the model of Pope's _Rape of the Lock_, did not serve to
bring in a better time.

Yet I must here mention a delusion, which operated as seriously as it
must be ridiculous when one examines it more closely. The Germans had
now sufficient historical knowledge of all the kinds of poetry in which
the different nations had distinguished themselves. This pigeon-hole
work, which, properly speaking, totally destroys the inner conception
of poetry, had been already pretty completely hammered together by
Gottsched in his _Critical Art of Poetry_, and it had been shown at
the same time that German poets, too, had already known how to fill up
all the rubrics with excellent works. And thus it ever went on. Each
year the collection was more considerable, but every year one work
pushed another out of the place in which it had hitherto shone. We now
possessed, if not Homers, yet Virgils and Miltons; if not a Pindar,
yet a Horace; of Theocrituses there was no lack; and thus they weighed
themselves by comparisons from without, whilst the mass of poetical
works always increased, so that at last there could be a comparison
from within.

[Side-note: Popular Philosophy.]

Now, though matters of taste stood on a very uncertain footing, there
could be no dispute but that, within the Protestant part of Germany
and of Switzerland, what is generally called common-sense began to
bestir itself briskly at that epoch. The scholastic philosophy--which
always has the merit of propounding according to received axioms, in
a favourite order, and under fixed rubrics, everything about which
man can at all inquire,--had, by the frequent darkness and apparent
uselessness of its subject-matter, by its unseasonable application
of a method in itself respectable, and by its too great extension
over so many subjects, made itself foreign to the mass, unpalatable,
and at last superfluous. Many a one became convinced that nature had
endowed him with as great a portion of good and straightforward sense
as, perchance, he required to form such a clear notion of objects
that he could manage them and turn them to his own profit, and that
of others, without laboriously troubling himself about the most
universal problems, and inquiring how the most remote things which
do not particularly affect us may hang together. Men made the trial,
opened their eyes, looked straight before them, observant, industrious,
active, and believed that when one judges and acts correctly in one's
own circle, one may well presume to speak of other things also, which
lie at a greater distance.

In accordance with such a notion, every one was now entitled, not only
to philosophize, but also by degrees to consider himself a philosopher.
Philosophy, therefore, was more or less sound and practised common
sense, which ventured lo enter upon the universal, and to decide upon
inner and outer experiences. A clear-sighted acuteness and an especial
moderation, while the middle path and fairness to all opinions was held
to be right, procured respect and confidence for writings and oral
statements of the sort, and thus at last philosophers were found in all
the faculties, nay, in all classes and trades.

In this way the theologians could not help inclining to what is called
natural religion, and when the discussion was how far the light of
nature may suffice to advance us in the knowledge of God and the
improving and ennobling of ourselves, they commonly ventured to decide
in its favour without much scruple. According to the same principle of
moderation, they then granted equal rights to all positive religions,
by which they all became alike indifferent and uncertain. For the rest,
they let everything stand, and since the Bible is so full of matter,
that, more than any other book, it offers material for reflection and
opportunity for meditation on human affairs, it could still, as before,
be always laid as the foundation of all sermons and other religious
treatises.

But over this work, as well as over the whole body of profane writers,
was impending a singular fate, which, in the lapse of time, was not
to be averted. Hitherto it had been received as a matter of implicit
faith, that this book of books was composed in one spirit; that it
was even inspired, and, as it were, dictated by the Divine Spirit.
Yet already for a long time the discrepancies of the different parts
of it had been now cavilled at, now apologized for, by believers and
unbelievers. English, French, and Germans had attacked the Bible with
more or less violence, acuteness, audacity, and wantonness; and just as
often had it been taken under the protection of earnest, sound-thinking
men of each nation. As for myself, I loved and valued it: for almost
to it alone did I owe my moral culture, and the events, the doctrines,
the symbols, the similes, had all impressed themselves deeply upon me,
and had influenced me in one way or another. These unjust, scoffing,
and perverting attacks, therefore, disgusted me; but people had already
gone so far as very willingly to admit, partly as a main ground for
the defence of many passages, that God had accommodated himself to the
modes of thought and power of comprehension in men; that even those
moved by the Spirit had not on that account been able to renounce their
character, their individuality, and that Amos, a cow-herd, did not
wield the language of Isaiah, who is said to have been a prince.

[Side-note: State of Theology.]

Out of such views and convictions, especially with a constantly
increasing knowledge of languages, was very naturally developed that
kind of study by which it was attempted to examine more accurately the
oriental localities, nationalities, natural products, and phenomena,
and in this manner to make present to one's-self that ancient time.
Michaelis employed the whole strength of his talents and his knowledge
on this side. Descriptions of travels became a powerful help in
explaining the Holy Scriptures, and later travellers, furnished with
numerous questions, were made, by the answers to them, to bear witness
for the prophets and apostles.

But whilst they were on all sides busied to bring the Holy Scriptures
to a natural intuition, and to render peculiar modes of thought and
representation in them more universally comprehensible, that by
this historico-critical aspect many an objection might be removed,
many offensive things effaced, and many a shallow scoffing be made
ineffective, there appeared in some men just the opposite disposition,
since these chose the darkest, most mysterious writings as the subject
of their meditations, and wished, if not to elucidate them, yet to
confirm them through internal evidence, by means of conjectures,
calculations, and other ingenious and strange combinations, and so far
as they contained prophecies, to prove them by the results, and thus to
justify a faith in what was next to be expected.

The venerable BENGEL had procured a decided reception for his labours
on the Revelations of St. John, from the fact that he was known as
an intelligent, upright, God-fearing, blameless man. Deep minds are
compelled to live in the past as well as in the future. The ordinary
movements of the world can be of no importance to them, if they do
not, in the course of ages up to the present, revere prophecies which
have been revealed, and in the immediate, as well as in the most
remote futurity, predictions still veiled. Hence arises a connexion
that is wanting in history, which seems to give us only an accidental
wavering backwards and forwards in a necessarily limited circle. Doctor
CRUSIUS** was one of those whom the prophetic part of Scripture suited
more than any other, since it brings into action the two most opposite
qualities of human nature, the affections, and the acuteness of the
intellect. Many young men had devoted themselves to this doctrine, and
already formed a respectable body, which attracted the more attention,
as ERNESTI with his friends threatened, not to illuminate, but
completely to disperse the obscurity in which these delighted. Hence
arose controversies, hatred, persecution and much that was unpleasant.
I attached myself to the lucid party, and sought to appropriate
to myself their principles and advantages, although I ventured to
forebode, that by this extremely praiseworthy, intelligent method of
interpretation, the poetic contents of the writings must at last be
lost along with the prophetical.

But those who devoted themselves to German literature and the _belles
lettres_ were more nearly concerned with the efforts of such men, who,
as JERUSALEM, ZOLLIKOFER, and SPALDING, tried, by means of a good and
pure style in their sermons and treatises, to gain even among persons
of a certain degree of sense and taste, applause and attachment for
religion, and for the moral philosophy which is so closely related to
it. A pleasing manner of writing began to be everywhere necessary; and
since such a manner must, above all, be comprehensible, so did writers
arise, on many sides, who undertook to write about their studies and
their professions clearly, perspicuously, and impressively, and as well
for the adepts as for the multitude.

After the example of Tissot, a foreigner, the physicians also now
began to labour zealously for the general cultivation HALLER, UNZER,
ZIMMERMAN had a very great influence, and whatever may be said against
them in detail, especially the last, they produced a very great effect
in their time. And mention should be made of this in history, but
particularly in biography: for a man remains of consequence, not so far
as he leaves something behind him, but so far as he acts and enjoys,
and rouses others to action and enjoyment.

The jurists, accustomed from their youth upwards to an abstruse style,
which, in all legal papers, from the petty court of the Immediate
Knight up to the Imperial Diet at Ratisbon, was still maintained in
all its quaintness, could not easily elevate themselves to a certain
freedom, the less so as the subjects of which they had to treat were
most intimately connected with the external form, and consequently also
with the style. Yet the younger VON MOSER had already shown himself
an independent and original writer, and PUTTER, by the clearness of
his delivery, had also brought clearness into his subject, and the
style in which he was to treat it. All that proceeded from his school
was distinguished by this. And even the philosophers, in order to
be popular, now found themselves compelled to write clearly and
intelligibly. MENDELSOHN and GARVE appeared, and excited universal
interest and admiration.

With the cultivation of the German language and style in every
department, the capacity for forming a judgment also increased, and we
admire the reviews then published of works upon religious and moral,
as well as medical subjects; while, on the contrary, we remark that
the judgments of poems, and of whatever else may relate to the _belles
lettres_, will be found, if not pitiful, at least very feeble. This
holds good of the _Literary Epistles_ (_Literaturbriefen_), and of the
_Universal German Library_, as well as of the _Library of the Belles
Lettres_, notable instances of which could easily be produced.

[Side-note: The "Image-Hunt."]

No matter in how motley a manner all this might be confused, still
for every one who contemplated producing anything from himself, who
would not merely take the words and phrases out of the mouths of his
predecessors, there was nothing further left but, early and late, to
look about him for some subject-matter which he might determine to use.
Here, too, we were much led astray. People were constantly repeating a
saying of KLEIST, which we had to hear often enough. He had sportively,
ingeniously, and truly replied to those who took him to task on account
of his frequent lonely walks: "that he was not idle at such times,--he
was going to the image hunt." This simile was very suitable for a
nobleman and soldier, who by it placed himself in contrast with the
men of his rank, who did not neglect going out, with their guns on
their shoulders, hare-hunting and patridge-shooting, as often as an
opportunity presented itself. Hence we find in Kleist's poems many
such individual images, happily seized, although not always happily
elaborated, which in a kindly manner remind us of nature. But now they
also recommended us, quite seriously, to go out on the image-hunt,
which did not at last leave us wholly without fruit, although Apel's
Garden, the kitchen-gardens, the Rosenthal, Golis, Raschwitz and
Konnewitz, would be the oddest ground to beat up poetical game in. And
yet I was often induced by that motive to contrive that my walk should
be solitary, and, because many objects neither beautiful nor sublime
met the eye of the beholder, and in the truly splendid Rosenthal, the
gnats, in the best season of the year, allowed no tender thoughts to
arise, so,did I, by unwearied, persevering endeavour, become extremely
attentive to the small life of nature, (I would use this word after
the analogy of "still life,") and since the pretty events which one
perceives within this circle represent but little in themselves, so I
accustomed myself to see in them a significance, which inclined now
towards the symbolical, now towards the allegorical side, accordingly
as intuition, feeling, or reflection had the preponderance. I will
relate one incident, in place of many.

I was, after the fashion of humanity, in love with my name, and, as
young uneducated people commonly do, I wrote it down everywhere. Once
I had carved it very handsomely and accurately on the smooth bark of a
linden-tree of moderate age. The following autumn, when my affection
for Annette was in its fullest bloom, I took the trouble to cut hers
above it. Towards the end of the winter, in the meantime, like a
capricious lover, I had wantonly sought many opportunities to teaze her
and cause her vexation; in the spring I chanced to visit the spot, and
the sap, which was rising strongly in the trees, had welled out through
the incisions which formed her name, and which were not yet crusted
over, and moistened with innocent vegetable tears the already hardened
traces of my own. Thus to see her here weeping over me,--me, who had so
often called up her tears by my ill-conduct, filled me with confusion.
At the remembrance of my injustice and of her love, even the tears came
into my eyes, I hastened to implore pardon of her, doubly and trebly,
and I turned this incident into an idyl[1], which I never could read to
myself without affection, or to others without emotion.

While I now, like a shepherd on the Pleisse, was absorbed childishly
enough in such tender subjects, and always chose only such as I
could easily recall into my bosom, provision from a greater and more
important side had long been made for German poets.

The first true and really vital material of the higher order came into
German poetry through Frederick the Great and the deeds of the Seven
Years' War. All national poetry must be shallow or become shallow which
does not rest on that which is most universally human,--upon the events
of nations and their shepherds, when both stand for one man. Kings are
to be represented in war and danger, where, by that very means, they
appear as the first, because they determine and share the fate of
the very least, and thus become much more interesting than the gods
themselves, who, when they have once determined the fates, withdraw
from all participation in them. In this view of the subject, every
nation, if it would be worth anything at all, must possess an epopee,
to which the precise form of the epic poem is not necessary.

[Side-note: Gleim-Ramler.]

The war-songs started by Gleim maintain so high a rank among German
poems, because they arose with and in the achievements which are their
subject, and because, moreover, their felicitous form, just as if a
fellow-combatant had produced them in the loftiest moments, makes us
feel the most complete effectiveness.

Ramler sings the deeds of his king in a different and most noble
manner. All his poems are full of matter, and occupy us with great,
heart-elevating objects, and thus already maintain an indestructible
value.

For the internal matter of the subject worked is the beginning and end
of art. It will not, indeed, be denied that genius, that thoroughly
cultivated artistical talent, can make everything out of everything by
its method of treatment, and can subdue the most refractory material.
But when closely examined, the result is rather a trick of art than a
work of art, which should rest upon a worthy object, that the treatment
of it by skill, pains, and industry, may present to us the dignity of
the subject-matter only the more happily and splendidly.

The Prussians, and with them Protestant Germany, acquired thus for
their literature a treasure which the opposite party lacked, and
the want of which they have been able to supply by no subsequent
endeavours. Upon the great idea which the Prussian writers could
well entertain of their king, they first established themselves, and
the more zealously as he, in whose name they did it all, wished once
for all to know nothing about them. Already before this, through the
French colony, afterwards through the king's predilection for the
literature of that nation, and for their financial institutions, had
a mass of French civilization come into Prussia, which was highly
advantageous to the Germans, since by it they were challenged to
contradiction and resistance; thus the very aversion of Frederick
from German was a fortunate thing for the formation of its literary
character. They did everything to attract the king's attention, not
indeed to be honoured, but only noticed by him; yet they did it in
German fashion, from an internal conviction; they did what they held
to be right, and desired and wished that the king should recognize
and prize this German uprightness. That did not and could not happen;
for how can it be required of a king, who wishes to live and enjoy
himself intellectually, that he shall lose his years in order to see
what he thinks barbarous developed and rendered palatable too late? In
matters of trade and manufacture, he might indeed force upon himself,
but especially upon his people, very moderate substitutes instead of
excellent foreign wares; but here everything comes to perfection more
rapidly, and it needs not a man's life-time to bring such things to
maturity.

But I must here, first of all, make honourable mention of one work, the
most genuine production of the Seven Years' War, and of perfect North
German nationality; it is the first theatrical production caught from
the important events of life, one of specific temporary value, and one
which therefore produced an incalculable effect,--_Minna von Barnhelm._
Lessing, who, in opposition to Klopstock and Gleim, was fond of casting
off his personal dignity, because he was confident that he could at any
moment seize it and take it up again, delighted in a dissipated life
in taverns and the world, as he always needed a strong counterpoise
to his powerfully labouring interior; and for this reason also he had
joined the suite of General Tauentzien. One easily discovers how the
above-mentioned piece was generated betwixt war and peace, hatred and
affection. It was this production which happily opened the view into a
higher, more significant world, from the literary and citizen world in
which poetic art had hitherto moved.

The intense hatred in which the Prussians and Saxons stood towards
each other during this war, could not be removed by its termination.
The Saxon now first felt, with true bitterness, the wounds which the
upstart Prussian had inflicted upon him. Political peace could not
immediately re-establish a peace between their dispositions. But this
was to be brought about symbolically by the above-mentioned drama.
The grace and amiability of the Saxon ladies conquer the worth, the
dignity, and the stubbornness of the Prussians, and, in the principal
as well as in the subordinate characters, a happy union of bizarre and
contradictory elements is artistically represented.

If I have put my reader in some perplexity by these cursory and
desultory remarks on German literature, I have succeeded in giving
them a conception of that chaotic condition in which my poor brain
found itself, when, in the conflict of two epochs so important for the
literary fatherland, so much that was new crowded in upon me before
I could come to terms with the old, so much that was old yet made me
feel its right over me, when I believed I had already cause to venture
on renouncing it altogether. I will at present try to impart, as
well as possible, the way I entered on to extricate myself from this
difficulty, if only step by step.

[Side-note: Goethe's Peculiar Tendency.]

The period of prolixity into which my youth had fallen, I had
laboured through with genuine industry, in company with so many
worthy men. The numerous quarto volumes of manuscript which I left
behind with my father might serve for sufficient witnesses of this;
and what a mass of essays, rough draughts, and half-executed designs,
had, more from despondency than conviction, gone up in smoke! Now,
through conversation, through instruction in general, through so
many conflicting opinions, but especially through my fellow-boarder
Hofrath Pfeil, I learned to value more and more the importance of
the subject-matter, and the conciseness of the treatment; without,
however, being able to make it clear to myself where the former was
to be sought, or how the latter was to be attained. For, what with
the great narrowness of my situation,--what with the indifference of
my companions, the reserve of the professors, the exclusiveness of
the educated inhabitants, and what with the perfect insignificance of
the natural objects, I was compelled to seek for everything within
myself. If I now desired a true basis in feeling or reflection for my
poems, I was forced to grasp into my own bosom; if I required for my
poetic representation an immediate intuition of an object or an event,
I could not step outside the circle which was fitted to teach me and
inspire me with an interest. In this view I wrote at first certain
little poems, in the form of songs or in a freer measure; they are
founded on reflection, treat of the past, and for the most part take an
epigrammatic turn.

And thus began that tendency from which I could not deviate my whole
life through; namely, the tendency to turn into an image, into a poem,
everything that delighted or troubled me, or otherwise occupied me, and
to come to some certain understanding with myself upon it, that I might
both rectify my conceptions of external things, and set my mind at rest
about them. The faculty of doing this was necessary to no one more
than to me, for my natural disposition whirled me constantly from one
extreme to the other. All, therefore, that has been confessed by me,
consists of fragments of a great confession, and this little book is an
attempt which I have ventured on to render it complete.

My early affection for Gretchen I had now transferred to one Annette
(_Aennchen_), of whom I can say nothing more than that she was young,
handsome, sprightly, loving, and so agreeable that she well deserved
to be set up for a time in the shrine of the heart as a little saint,
that she might receive all that reverence which it often causes more
pleasure to bestow than to receive. I saw her daily without hindrance;
she helped to prepare the meals which I enjoyed, she brought, in the
evening at least, the wine which I drank, and indeed our select club
of noon-day boarders was a warranty that the little house, which was
visited by few guests except during the fair, well merited its good
reputation. Opportunity and inclination were found for various kinds
of amusement. But as she neither could nor dared go much out of the
house, the pastime was somewhat limited. We sang the songs of Zachariä,
played the _Duke Michael_ of Krüger, in which a knotted handkerchief
had to take the place of the nightingale; and so, for a while, it went
on quite tolerably. But since such connexions, the more innocent they
are, afford the less variety in the long run,--so was I seized with
that wicked distemper which seduces us to derive amusement from the
torment of a beloved one, and to domineer over a girl's devotedness
with wanton and tyrannical caprice. My ill-humour at the failure of my
poetical attempts, at the apparent impossibility of coming to a clear
understanding about them, and at everything else that might pinch me
here and there, I thought I might vent on her, because she truly loved
me with all her heart, and did whatever she could to please me. By
unfounded and absurd fits of jealousy, I destroyed our most delightful
days both for myself and her. She endured it for a time with incredible
patience, which I was cruel enough to try to the uttermost. But to
my shame and despair I was at last forced to remark that her heart
was alienated from me, and that I might now have good ground for the
madness in which I had indulged without necessity and without cause.
There were also terrible scenes between us, in which I gained nothing;
and I then first felt that I had truly loved her, and could not bear
to lose her. My passion grew, and assumed all the forms of which it
is capable under such circumstances; nay, at last I even took up the
_rôle_ which the girl had hitherto played. I sought everything possible
in order to be agreeable to her, even to procure her pleasure by means
of others; for I could not renounce the hope of winning her again. But
it was too late! I had lost her really, and the frenzy with which I
revenged my fault upon myself, by assaulting in various frantic ways
my physical nature, in order to inflict some hurt on my moral nature,
contributed very much to the bodily maladies under which I lost some
of the best years of my life; indeed I should perchance have been
completely ruined by this loss, had not my poetic talent here shown
itself particularly helpful with its healing power.

[Side-note: Die Laune Des Verliebten.]

Already, at many intervals before, I had clearly enough perceived
my ill-conduct. I really pitied the poor child, when I saw her so
thoroughly wounded by me, without necessity. I pictured to myself so
often and so circumstantially, her condition and my own, and, as a
contrast, the contented state of another couple in our company, that
at last I could not forbear treating this situation dramatically, as a
painful and instructive penance. Hence arose the oldest of my extant
dramatic labours, the little piece entitled, _Die Laune des Verliebten_
(_The Lover's Caprice_); in the simple nature of which one may at the
same time perceive the impetus of a boiling passion.

But before this, a deep, significant, impulsive world had already
interested me. Through my adventure with Gretchen and its consequences,
I had early looked into the strange labyrinths by which civil society
is undermined. Religion, morals, law, rank, connexions, custom, all
rule only the surface of city existence. The streets, bordered by
splendid houses, are kept neat, and every one behaves himself there
properly enough; but indoors, it often seems only so much the more
disordered; and a smooth exterior, like a thin coat of mortar, plasters
over many a rotten wall that tumbles together overnight, and produces
an effect the more frightful, as it comes into the midst of a condition
of repose. How many families, far and near, had I not already seen,
either overwhelmed in ruin or kept miserably hanging on the brink of
it, by means of bankruptcies, divorces, seduced daughters, murders,
house-robberies, poisonings; and young as I was, I had often, in such
cases, lent a hand for help and preservation. For as my frankness
awakened confidence, as my secresy was proved, as my activity feared
no sacrifice, and loved best to exert itself in the most dangerous
affairs, I had often enough found opportunity to mediate, to hush up,
to divert the lightning-flash, with every other assistance of the
kind; in the course of which, as well in my own person as through
others, I could not fail to come to the knowledge of many afflicting
and humiliating facts. To relieve myself I designed several plays,
and wrote the arguments[2] of most of them. But since the intrigues
were always obliged to be painful, and almost all these pieces
threatened a tragical conclusion, I let them drop one after another.
_Die Mitschuldigen_ (_The Fellow-sinners_) is the only one that was
finished, the cheerful and burlesque tone of which upon the gloomy
family-ground appears as if accompanied by somewhat of apprehension, so
that on the whole it is painful in representation, although it pleases
in detached passages. The illegal deeds, harshly expressed, wound
the æsthetic and moral feeling, and the piece could therefore find
no favour on the German stage, although the imitations of it, which
steered clear of those rocks, were received with applause.

Both the above-mentioned pieces were however written from a more
elevated point of view, without my having been aware of it. They
direct us to a considerate forbearance in casting moral imputations,
and in somewhat harsh and coarse touches sportively express that most
Christian maxim: _Let him who is without sin among you, cast the first
stone._

[Side-note: Youthful Pranks.]

Through this earnestness, which cast a gloom over my first pieces,
I committed the fault of neglecting very favourable materials which
lay quite decidedly in my natural disposition. In the midst of these
serious, and for a young man, fearful experiences, was developed in me
a reckless humour, which feels itself superior to the moment, and not
only fears no danger, but rather wantonly courts it. The ground of this
lay in the exuberance of spirits in which the vigorous time of life so
much delights, and which, if it manifests itself in a frolicsome way,
causes much pleasure, both at the moment and in remembrance. These
things are so usual that in the vocabulary of our young university
friends they are called _Suites_, and on account of the close
similarity of signification, to say "_play suites_," means just the
same as to "play pranks."[3]

Such humorous acts of daring, brought on the theatre with wit and
sense, are of the greatest effect. They are distinguished from
intrigue, inasmuch as they are momentary, and that their aim, whenever
they are to have one, must not be remote. Beaumarchais has seized
their full value, and the effects of his _Figaro_ spring pre-eminently
from this. If now such good-humoured roguish and half-knavish pranks
are practised with personal risk for noble ends, the situations which
arise from them are æsthetically and morally considered of the greatest
value for the theatre; as for instance the opera of the _Water-Carrier_
treats perhaps the happiest subject which we have ever yet seen upon
the stage.

To enliven the endless tedium of daily life, I played off numberless
tricks of the sort, partly without any aim at all, partly in the
service of my friends whom I liked to please. For myself, I could not
say that I had once acted in this designedly, nor did I ever happen
to consider a feat of the kind as a subject for art. Had I, however,
seized upon and elaborated such materials, which were so close at hand,
my earliest labours would have been more cheerful and available. Some
incidents of this kind occur indeed later, but isolated and without
design. For since the heart always lies nearer to us than the head,
and gives us trouble when the latter knows well how to help itself,
so the affairs of the heart had always appeared to me as the most
important. I was never weary of reflecting upon the transient nature of
attachments, the mutability of human character, moral sensuality, and
all the heights and depths, the combination of which in our nature may
be considered as the riddle of human life. Here, too, I sought to get
rid of that which troubled me, in a song, an epigram, in some kind of
rhyme, which, since they referred to the most private feelings and the
most peculiar circumstances, could scarcely interest any one but myself.

In the meanwhile, my external position had very much changed after
the lapse of a short time. Madame Böhme, after a long and melancholy
illness, had at last died; she had latterly ceased to admit me to her
presence. Her husband could not be particularly satisfied with me;
I seemed to him not sufficiently industrious, and too frivolous. He
especially took it very ill of me, when it was told him that, at the
lectures on German Public Law, instead of taking proper notes, I had
been drawing on the margin of my note-book the personages presented
to our notice in them, such as the President of the Chamber, the
Moderators and Assessors, in strange wigs; and by this drollery had
disturbed my attentive neighbours and set them laughing. After the
loss of his wife he lived still more retired than before, and at last
I shunned him in order to avoid his reproaches. But it was peculiarly
unfortunate that Gellert would not use the power which he might have
exercised over us. Indeed he had not time to play the father-confessor,
and to inquire after the character and faults of everybody; he
therefore took the matter very much in the lump, and thought to curb us
by means of the church forms. For this reason, commonly, when he once
admitted us to his presence, he used to lower his little head, and,
in his weeping, winning voice, to ask us whether we went regularly to
church, who was our confessor, and whether we took the holy communion?
If now we came off badly at this examination we were dismissed with
lamentations; we were more vexed than edified, yet could not help
loving the man heartily.

[Side-note: Sacraments of the Church.]

On this occasion, I cannot forbear recalling somewhat of my earlier
youth, in order to make it obvious that the great affairs of the
ecclesiastical religion must be carried on with order and coherence,
if they are to prove as fruitful as is expected. The Protestant
service has too little fulness and consistency to be able to hold the
congregation together; hence, it easily happens that members secede
from it, and either form little congregations of their own, or, without
ecclesiastical connexion, quietly carry on their citizen-life side
by side. Thus for a considerable time complaints were made that the
church-goers were diminishing from year to year, and, just in the same
ratio, the persons who partook of the Lord's Supper. With respect to
both, but especially the latter, the cause lies close at hand; but who
dares to speak it out? We will make the attempt.

In moral and religious, as well as in physical and civil matters, man
does not like to do anything on the spur of the moment; he needs a
sequence from which results habit; what he is to love and to perform,
he cannot represent to himself as single or isolated, and if he is to
repeat anything willingly, it must not have become strange to him.
If the Protestant worship lacks fulness in general, so let it be
investigated in detail, and it will be found that the Protestant has
too few sacraments, nay, indeed he has only one in which he is himself
an actor,--the Lord's Supper: for baptism he sees only when it is
performed on others, and is not greatly edified by it. The sacraments
are the highest part of religion, the symbols to our senses of an
extraordinary divine favour and grace. In the Lord's Supper earthly
lips are to receive a divine Being embodied, and partake of an heavenly
under the form of an earthly nourishment. This sense is just the same
in all Christian churches; whether the Sacrament is taken with more
or less submission to the mystery, with more or less accommodation as
to that which is intelligible; it always remains a great holy thing,
which in reality takes the place of the possible or the impossible,
the place of that which man can neither attain nor do without. But
such a sacrament should not stand alone; no Christian can partake
of it with the true joy for which it is given, if the symbolical or
sacramental sense is not fostered within him. He must be accustomed
to regard the inner religion of the heart and that of the external
church as perfectly one, as the great universal sacrament, which again
divides itself into so many others, and communicates to these parts its
holiness, indestructibleness, and eternity.

Here a youthful pair give their hands to one another, not for a passing
salutation or for the dance; the priest pronounces his blessing upon
them, and the bond is indissoluble. It is not long before this wedded
pair bring a likeness to the threshold of the altar; it is purified
with holy water, and so incorporated into the church, that it cannot
forfeit this benefit but through the most monstrous apostacy. The
child in the course of life practises himself in earthly things of his
own accord, in heavenly things he must be instructed. Does it prove
on examination that this has been fully done, he is now received into
the bosom of the church as an actual citizen, as a true and voluntary
professor, not without outward tokens of the weightiness of this act.
Now is he first decidedly a Christian, now for the first time he knows
his advantages, and also his duties. But, in the meanwhile, much that
is strange has happened to him as a man; through instruction and
affliction he has come to know how critical appears the state of his
inner self, and there will constantly be a question of doctrines and of
transgressions; but punishment shall no longer take place. For here,
in the infinite confusion in which he must entangle himself, amid the
conflict of natural and religious claims, an admirable expedient is
given him, in confiding his deeds and misdeeds, his infirmities and
doubts, to a worthy man, appointed expressly for that purpose, who
knows how to calm, to warn, to strengthen him, to chasten him likewise
by symbolical punishments, and at last by a complete washing away of
his guilt, to render him happy and to give him back, pure and cleansed,
the tablet of his manhood. Thus prepared, and purely calmed to rest by
several sacramental acts, which, on closer examination, branch forth
again into minuter sacramental traits, he kneels down to receive the
host; and that the mystery of this high act may be still enhanced,
he sees the chalice only in the distance; it is no common eating and
drinking that satisfies, it is a heavenly feast, which makes him thirst
after heavenly drink.

Yet let not the youth believe that this is all he has to do; let not
even the man believe it. In earthly relations we are at last accustomed
to depend on ourselves, and, even there, knowledge, understanding,
and character, will not always suffice; in heavenly things, on
the contrary, we have never finished learning. The higher feeling
within us, which often finds itself not even truly at home, is,
besides, oppressed by so much from without, that our own power hardly
administers all that is necessary for counsel, consolation, and help.
But, to this end, that remedy is instituted for our whole life, and an
intelligent, pious man is continually waiting to show the right way to
the wanderers, and to relieve the distressed.

[Side-note: Catholic Sacraments.]

And what has been so well tried through the whole life, is now to
show forth all its healing power with tenfold activity at the gate of
Death. According to a trustful custom, inculcated from youth upwards,
the dying man receives with fervour those symbolical, significant
assurances, and there, where every earthly warranty fails, he is
assured, by a heavenly one, of a blessed existence for all eternity. He
feels himself perfectly convinced that neither a hostile element nor a
malignant spirit can hinder him from clothing himself with a glorified
body, so that, in immediate relation with the Godhead, he may partake
of the boundless happiness which flows forth from Him.

Then in conclusion, that the whole may be made holy, the feet also are
anointed and blessed. They are to feel, even in the event of possible
recovery, a repugnance to touching this earthly, hard, impenetrable
soil. A wonderful nimbleness is to be imparted to them, by which they
spurn from under them the clod of earth which hitherto attracted them.
And so, through a brilliant circle of equally holy acts, the beauty of
which we have only briefly hinted at, the cradle and the grave, however
far asunder they may chance to be, are bound in one continuous circle.

But all these spiritual wonders spring not, like other fruits, from
the natural soil, where they can neither be sown, nor planted, nor
cherished. We must supplicate for them from another region, a thing
which cannot be done by all persons, nor at all times. Here we meet
the highest of these symbols, derived from pious tradition. We are
told that one man can be more favoured, blessed, and sanctified from
above than another. But that this may not appear as a natural gift,
this great boon, bound up with a heavy duty, must be communicated to
others by one authorized person to another; and the greatest good that
a man can attain, without his having to obtain it by his own wrestling
or grasping, must be preserved and perpetuated on earth by spiritual
heirship. In the very ordination of the priest, is comprehended all
that is necessary for the effectual solemnizing of those holy acts, by
which the multitude receive grace, without any other activity being
needful on their part, than that of faith and implicit confidence.
And thus the priest steps forth in the line of his predecessors and
successors, in the circle of those anointed with him, representing the
highest source of blessings, so much the more gloriously, as it is not
he, the priest, whom we reverence, but his office; it is not his nod
to which we bow the knee, but the blessing which he imparts, and which
seems the more holy, and to come the more immediately from heaven,
because the earthly instrument cannot at all weaken or invalidate it by
its own sinful, nay, wicked nature.

How is this truly spiritual connexion shattered to pieces in
Protestantism, by part of the above-mentioned symbols being declared
apocryphal, and only a few canonical;--and how, by their indifference
to one of these, will they prepare us for the high dignity of the
others?

In my time I had been confided to the religious instruction of a good
old infirm clergyman, who had been confessor of the family for many
years. The _Catechism_, a _Paraphrase_ of it, and the _Scheme of
Salvation_, I had at my fingers' ends, I lacked not one of the strongly
proving biblical texts, but from all this I reaped no fruit; for as
they assured me that the honest old man arranged his chief examination
according to an old set form, I lost all pleasure and inclination for
the business, spent the last week in all sorts of diversions, laid in
my hat the loose leaves borrowed from an older friend, who had gotten
them from the clergyman, and unfeelingly and senselessly read aloud all
that I should have known how to utter with feeling and conviction.

[Side-note: Religious Apprehensions.]

But I found my good-will and my aspirations in this important matter
still more paralyzed by a dry, spiritless routine, when I was now
to approach the confessional. I was indeed conscious to myself of
many failings, but of no great faults; and that very consciousness
diminished them, since it directed me to the moral strength which
lay within me, and which, with resolution and perseverance, was at
last to become master over the old Adam. We were taught that we were
much better than the catholics for this very reason: that we were not
obliged to acknowledge anything in particular in the confessional,
nay, that this would not be at all proper, even if we wished to do it.
This last did not seem right to me; for I had the strangest religious
doubts, which I would readily have had cleared up on such an occasion.
Now as this was not to be done, I composed a confession for myself,
which, while it well expressed my state of mind, was to confess to an
intelligent man, in general terms, that which I was forbidden to tell
him in detail. But when I entered the old choir of the Barefoot Friars,
when I approached the strange latticed closets in which the reverend
gentlemen used to be found for that purpose, when the sexton opened the
door for me, when I now saw myself shut up in the narrow place face
to face with my spiritual grandsire, and he bade me welcome with his
weak nasal voice, all the light of my mind and heart was extinguished
at once, the well-conned confession-speech would not cross my lips;
I opened, in my embarrassment, the book which I had in hand, and
read from it the first short form I saw, which was so general, that
anybody might have spoken it with quite a safe conscience. I received
absolution, and withdrew neither warm nor cold; went the next day with
my parents to the Table of the Lord, and, for a few days, behaved
myself as was becoming after so holy an act.

In the sequel, however, there came over me that evil, which from the
fact of our religion being complicated by various dogmas, and founded
on texts of scripture which admit of several interpretations, attacks
scrupulous men in such a manner, that it brings on a hypochondriacal
condition, and raises this to its highest point, to fixed ideas. I have
known several men who, though their manner of thinking and living was
perfectly rational, could not free themselves from thinking about the
sin against the Holy Ghost, and from the fear that they had committed
it. A similar trouble threatened me on the subject of the communion,
for the text that one who unworthily partakes of the Sacrament _eateth
and drinketh damnation to himself_, had, very early, already made a
monstrous impression upon me. Every fearful thing that I had read in
the histories of the middle ages, of the judgments of God, of those
most strange ordeals, by red-hot iron, flaming fire, swelling water,
and even what the Bible tells us of the draught which agrees well with
the innocent, but puffs up and bursts the guilty,--all this pictured
itself to my imagination; and formed itself into the most frightful
combinations, since false vows, hypocrisy, perjury, blasphemy, all
seemed to weigh down the unworthy person at this most holy act, which
was so much the more horrible, as no one could dare to pronounce
himself worthy, and the forgiveness of sins, by which everything was to
be at last done away, was found limited by so many conditions, that one
could not with certainty dare appropriate it to oneself.

This gloomy scruple troubled me to such a degree, and the expedient
which they would represent to me as sufficient, seemed so bald and
feeble, that it gave the bugbear only a more fearful aspect, and, as
soon as I had reached Leipzig, I tried to free myself altogether from
my connexion with the church. How oppressive then must have been to me
the exhortations of Gellert, whom, considering the generally laconic
style with which he was obliged to repel our obtrusiveness, I was
unwilling to trouble with such singular questions, and the less so as
in my more cheerful hours I was myself ashamed of them; and at last
left completely behind me this strange anguish of conscience, together
with church and altar.

[Side-note: Decline of Gellert's Authority.]

Gellert, in accordance with his pious feelings, had composed for
himself a course of ethics, which from time to time he publicly read,
and thus in an honourable manner acquitted himself of his duty to the
public. Gellert's writings had already, for a long time, been the
foundation of German moral culture, and every one anxiously wished to
see that work printed; but as this was not to be done till after the
good man's death, people thought themselves very fortunate to hear him
deliver it himself in his lifetime. The philosophical auditorium[4]
was at such times crowded, and the beautiful soul, the pure will,
and the interest of the noble man in our welfare, his exhortations,
warnings, and entreaties, uttered in a somewhat hollow and sorrowful
tone, made indeed an impression for the moment, but this did not last
long, the less so, as there were many scoffers, who contrived to make
us suspicious of this tender, and, as they thought, enervating manner.
I remember a Frenchman travelling through the town, who inquired after
the maxims and opinions of the man who attracted such an immense
concourse. When we had given him the necessary information, he shook
his head and said, smiling, _Laissez le faire, il nous forme des dupes._

And thus also did good society, which cannot easily endure anything
estimable in its neighbourhood, know how to spoil on occasion the moral
influence which Gellert might have had upon us. Now it was taken ill of
him that he instructed the Danes of distinction and wealth, who were
particularly recommended to him, better than the other students, and
had a marked solicitude for them; now he was charged with selfishness
and nepotism for causing a table d'hôte to be established for these
young men at his brother's house. This brother, a tall, good-looking,
blunt, unceremonious and somewhat rude man, had, it was said, been
a fencing-master, and notwithstanding the too great lenity of his
brother, the noble boarders were often treated harshly and roughly;
hence the people thought they must again take the part of these young
folks, and pulled about the good reputation of the excellent Gellert
to such a degree, that, in order not to be mistaken about him, we
became indifferent towards him, and visited him no more; yet we always
saluted him in our best manner when he came riding along on his tame
grey horse. This horse the Elector had sent him, to oblige him to take
an exercise so necessary for his health;--a distinction which was not
easily forgiven him.

And thus, by degrees, the epoch approached when all authority was to
vanish from before me, and I was to become suspicious, nay, to despair,
even of the greatest and best individuals whom I had known or imagined.

Frederick the Second still stood at the head of all the distinguished
men of the century, in my thoughts, and it must therefore have appeared
very surprising to me, that I could praise him as little before the
inhabitants of Leipzig as formerly in my grandfather's house. They had
felt the hand of war heavily, it is true, and therefore they were not
to blame for not thinking the best of him who had begun and continued
it. They therefore were willing to let him pass, as a distinguished,
but by no means as a great man. "There was no art," they said, "in
performing something with great means; and if one spares neither
lands, nor money, nor blood, one may well accomplish one's purpose
at last. Frederick had shown himself great in none of his plans, and
in nothing that he had, properly speaking, undertaken. So long as it
depended on himself, he had only gone on making blunders, and what was
extraordinary in him, had only come to light when he was compelled to
make these blunders good again. It was purely from this that he had
obtained his great reputation, since every man wishes for himself that
same talent of making good, in a clever way, the blunders which he
frequently commits. If one goes through the Seven Years' War, step by
step, it will be found that the king quite uselessly sacrificed his
fine army, and that it was his own fault that this ruinous feud had
been protracted to so great a length. A truly great man and general
would have got the better of his enemies much sooner." In support of
these opinions they could cite infinite details, which I did not know
how to deny; and I felt the unbounded reverence which I had devoted to
this remarkable prince, from my youth upwards, gradually cooling away.

[Side-note: Behrisch.]

As the inhabitants of Leipzig had now destroyed for me the pleasant
feeling of revering a great man, so did a new friend whom I gained at
the time very much diminish the respect which I entertained for my
present fellow-citizens. This friend was one of the strangest fellows
in the world. He was named Behrisch, and was tutor to the young Count
Lindenau. Even his exterior was singular enough. Lean and well-built,
far advanced in the thirties, a very large nose, and altogether marked
features; he wore from morning till night a scratch which might well
have been called a peruke, but dressed himself very neatly, and never
went out but with his sword by his side, and his hat under his arm. He
was one of those men who have quite a peculiar gift of killing time,
or rather, who know how to make something out of nothing, in order to
pass time away. Everything that he did must be done with slowness,
and a certain deportment which might have been called affected, if
Behrisch had not even by nature had something affected in his manner.
He resembled an old Frenchman, and also spoke and wrote French very
well and easily. His greatest delight was to busy himself seriously
about drolleries, and to follow up without end any silly notion. Thus
he was constantly dressed in grey, and as the different parts of his
attire were of different stuffs, and also of different shades, he could
reflect for whole days as to how he should procure one grey more for
his body, and was happy when he had succeeded in this, and could put
to shame us who had doubted it, or had pronounced it impossible. He
then gave us long severe lectures, about our lack of inventive power,
and our want of faith in his talents.

For the rest, he had studied well, was particularly versed in the
modern languages and their literature, and wrote an excellent hand.
He was very well disposed to me, and I, having been always accustomed
and inclined to the society of older persons, soon attached myself to
him. My intercourse, too, served him for a special amusement, since he
took pleasure in taming my restlessness and impatience, with which, on
the other hand, I gave him enough to do. In the art of poetry he had
what is called taste, a certain general opinion about the good and bad,
the mediocre and tolerable; but his judgment was rather censorious,
and he destroyed even the little faith in contemporary writers which I
cherished within me, by unfeeling remarks, which he knew how to advance
with wit and humour, about the writings and poems of this man and that.
He received my own affairs with indulgence, and let me have my way, but
only on the condition that I should have nothing printed. He promised
me, on the other hand, that he himself would copy those pieces which he
thought good, and would present me with them in a handsome volume. This
undertaking now afforded an opportunity for the greatest possible waste
of time. For before he could find the right paper, before he could
make up his mind as to the size, before he had settled the breadth of
the margin, and the form of handwriting, before the crow-quills were
provided and cut into pens, and Indian ink was rubbed, whole weeks
passed, without the least bit having been done. With just as much ado
he always set about his writing, and really, by degrees, put together
a most charming manuscript. The title of the poems was in German text,
the verses themselves in a perpendicular Saxon hand, and at the end
of every poem was an analogous vignette, which he had either selected
somewhere or other, or had invented himself, and in which he contrived
to imitate very neatly the hatching of the wood-cuts and tail-pieces
which are used for such purposes. To show me these things as he went
on, to celebrate beforehand in a comico-pathetical manner my good
fortune in seeing myself immortalized in such exquisite handwriting,
and that in a style which no printing-press could attain, gave another
occasion for passing the most agreeable hours. In the meantime, his
intercourse was always secretly instructive, by reason of his liberal
acquirements, and, as he knew how to subdue my restless impetuous
disposition, was also quite wholesome for me in a moral sense. He had,
too, quite a peculiar abhorrence of roughness, and his jests were
always quaint, without ever falling into the coarse or the trivial.
He indulged himself in a distorted aversion from his countrymen, and
described with ludicrous touches even what they were able to undertake.
He was particularly inexhaustible in a comical representation of
individual persons, as he found something to find fault with in the
exterior of every one. Thus, when we lay together at the window, he
could occupy himself for hours criticising the passers-by, and when he
had censured them long enough, in showing exactly and circumstantially
how they ought to have dressed themselves, ought to have walked, and
ought to have behaved to look like orderly people. Such attempts, for
the most part, ended in something improper and absurd, so that we did
not so much laugh at how the man looked, but at how, perchance, he
might have looked, had he been mad enough to caricature himself. In
all such matters, Behrisch went quite unmercifully to work, without
being in the slightest degree malicious. On the other hand, we knew
how to teaze him, on our side, by assuring him that, to judge from his
exterior, he must be taken, if not for a French dancing-master, at
least for the academical teacher of the language. This reproval was
usually the signal for dissertations an hour long, in which he used to
set forth the difference, wide as the heavens, which there was between
him and an old Frenchman. At the same time he commonly imputed to us
all sorts of awkward attempts, that we might possibly have made for the
alteration and modification of his wardrobe.

The direction of my poetizing, which I only carried on the more
zealously as the transcript went on becoming more beautiful and more
careful, now inclined altogether to the natural and the true; and if
the subjects could not always be important, I nevertheless always
endeavoured to express them clearly and pointedly, the more so as
my friend often gave me to understand, what a great thing it was to
write down a verse on Dutch paper, with the crow-quill and Indian
ink; what time, talent, and exertion it required, which ought not to
be squandered on anything empty and superfluous. At the same time, he
commonly used to open a finished parcel and circumstantially to explain
what ought not to stand in this or that place, or congratulate us that
it actually did not stand there. He then spoke, with great contempt, of
the art of printing, mimicked the compositor, ridiculed his gestures
and his hurried picking out of letters here and there, and derived from
this manœuvre all the calamities of literature. On the other hand, he
extolled the grace and the noble posture of a writer, and immediately
sat down himself to exhibit it to us, while he rated us at the same
time for not demeaning ourselves at the writing-table precisely after
his example and model. He now returned to the contrast with the
compositor, turned a begun letter upside down, and showed how unseemly
it would be to write anything from the bottom to the top, or from the
right to the left, with other things of like kind with which whole
volumes might have been,filled.

With such harmless fooleries we lavished away our precious time, while
it could have occurred to none of us, that anything would chance to
proceed out of our circle, which would awaken a general sensation and
bring us into not the best repute.

[Side-note: Professor Clodius.]

Gellert may have taken little pleasure in his _Practicum_, and if,
perhaps, he took pleasure in giving some directions as to prose and
poetical style, he did it most privately only to a few, among whom we
could not number ourselves. Professor Clodius thought to fill the gap
which thus arose in the public instruction. He had gained some renown
in literature, criticism, and poetry, and as a young, lively, obliging
man, found many friends both in the university and in the city. Gellert
himself referred us to the lectures now commenced by him, and, as far
as the principal matter was concerned, we remarked little difference.
He, too, only criticised details, corrected likewise with red ink, and
one found oneself in company with mere blunders, without a prospect as
to where the right was to be sought. I had brought to him some of my
little labours, which he did not treat harshly. But just at this time
they wrote to me from home, that I must without fail furnish a poem for
my uncle's wedding. I felt myself far from that light and frivolous
period in which a similar thing would have given me pleasure, and since
I could get nothing out of the actual circumstance itself, I determined
to trick out my work in the best manner, with extraneous ornament.
I therefore convened all Olympus to consult about the marriage of a
Frankfort lawyer; and seriously enough, to be sure, as well became the
festival of such an honourable man. Venus and Themis had quarrelled for
his sake; but a roguish prank which Amor played the latter, gained the
suit for the former, and the gods decided in favour of the marriage.

My work by no means displeased me. I received from home a handsome
letter in its praise, took the trouble to have another fair copy, and
hoped to extort some applause from my professor also. But here I had
missed my aim. He took the matter severely, and as he did not notice
the tone of parody, which nevertheless lay in the notion, he declared
the great expenditure of divine means for such an insignificant human
end, in the highest degree reprehensible; inveighed against the use
and abuse of such mythological figures, as a false habit originating
in pedantic times; found the expression now too high, now too low, and
in divers particulars had indeed not spared the red ink, though he
asserted that he had yet done too little.

Such pieces were read out and criticised anonymously, it is true;
but we used to watch each other, and it remained no secret that this
unfortunate assembly of the gods was my work. Yet since his critique,
when I took his point of view, seemed to be perfectly just, and those
divinities more nearly inspected were in fact only hollow shadow-forms;
I cursed all Olympus, flung the whole mythic Pantheon away, and from
that time Amor and Luna have been the only divinities which at all
appear in my little poems.

[Side-note: Ridicule of Clodius.]

Among the persons whom Behrisch had chosen as the butts of his wit,
Clodius stood just at the head; nor was it hard to find a comical side
in him. As a little, rather stout, thick-set figure, he was violent
in his motions, somewhat impetuous in his utterances, and restless
in his demeanour. In all this he differed from his fellow-citizens,
who, nevertheless, willingly put up with him on account of his good
qualities and the fine promise which he gave.

He was usually commissioned with the poems which had become necessary
on festal occasions. In the so-called _Ode_, he followed the manner
used by Ramler, whom, however, it alone suited. But Clodius, as an
imitator, had especially marked the foreign words by means of which
the poems of Ramler come forth with a majestic pomp, which, because
it is conformable to the greatness of his subject and the rest of his
poetic treatment, produces a very good effect on the ear, feelings,
and imagination. In Clodius, on the contrary, these expressions had
a heterogeneous air, since his poetry was in other respects not
calculated to elevate the mind in any manner.

Now we had often been obliged to see such poems printed and highly
lauded in our presence, and we found it highly offensive, that he who
had sequestered the heathen gods from us, now wished to hammer together
another ladder to Parnassus out of Greek and Roman word-rungs. These
oft-recurring expressions stamped themselves firmly on our memory,
and in a merry hour, when we were eating some most excellent cakes in
the Kitchen-gardens (_Kohlgärten_), it all at once struck me to put
together these words of might and power, in a poem on the cake-baker
Hendel. No sooner thought than done! And let it stand here, too, as it
was written on the wall of the house with a lead-pencil.

    "O Hendel, dessen Ruhm vom _Süd_ zum _Norden_ reicht,
    Vernimm den _Päan_ der zu deinen Ohren steigt
    Du bäckst was _Gallien_ und _Britten_ emsig suchen,
    Mit _schöpfrischen Genie, originelle_ Kuchen.
    Des Kaffee's _Ocean_, der sich vor dir ergiesst,
    Ist süsser als der Saft der vom _Hymettus_ fliesst.
    Dein Haus ein _Monument_, wie wir den Künsten lohnen
    Umhangen mit _Trophän_, erzählt den _Nationen_:
    Auch ohne _Diadem_ fand Hendel hier sein Glück
    Und raubte dem _Cothurn_ gur manch Achtgroschenstück.
    Glänzt deine _Urn_ dereinst in majestäts'chen _Pompe_,
    Dann weint der _Patriot_ un deinem _Katacomhe._
    Doch leb! dein _Torus_ sey von edler Brut ein _Nest_,
    Steh'hoch wie der _Olymp_, wie der _Parnassus_ fest!
    Kein _Phalanx_ Griechenland mit Römischen _Ballisten_
    Vermög _Germanien_ und Hendel zu verwüsten.
    Dein _Wohl_ is unser _Stolz_, dein _Leiden_ unser _Schmerz
    Und_ Hendel's _Tempel ist der Musensöhne Herz._"[5]

This poem stood a long time among many others which disfigured the
walls of that room, without being noticed, and we, who had sufficiently
amused ourselves with it, forgot it altogether amongst other things. A
long time afterwards, Clodius came out with his _Medon_, whose wisdom,
magnanimity and virtue we found infinitely ridiculous, much as the
first representation of the piece was applauded. That evening, when we
met together in the wine-house, I made a prologue in doggerel verse,
in which Harlequin steps out with two great sacks, places them on each
side of the _proscenium_, and after various preliminary jokes, tells
the spectators in confidence, that in the two sacks moral æsthetic**
dust is to be found, which the actors will very frequently throw
into their eyes. One, to wit, was filled with good deeds, that cost
nothing, and the other with splendidly expressed opinions, that had
no meaning behind them. He reluctantly withdrew, and sometimes came
back, earnestly exhorted the spectators to attend to his warning and
shut their eyes, reminded them that he had always been their friend,
and meant well with them, with many more things of the kind. This
prologue was acted in the room, on the spot, by friend Horn, but the
jest remained quite among ourselves, not even a copy had been taken,
and the paper was soon lost. However, Horn, who had performed the
Harlequin very prettily, took it into his head to enlarge my poem to
Hendel by several verses, and then to make it refer to _Medon._ He
read it aloud to us, and we could not take any pleasure in it, for
we did not find the additions even ingenious, while the first poem,
being written for quite a different purpose, seemed to us disfigured.
Our friend, out of humour at our indifference, or rather censure, may
have shown it to others, who found it new and amusing. Copies were now
made of it, to which the reputation of Clodius's _Medon_ gave at once
a rapid publicity. Universal disapproval was the consequence, and the
originators (it was soon found out that the poem had proceeded from our
clique) were severely censured: for nothing of the sort had been seen
since Cronegk's and Rost's** attacks upon Gottsched. We had besides
already secluded ourselves, and now found ourselves quite in the case
of the owl with respect to the other birds. In Dresden, too, they did
not like the affair, and it had for us serious, if not unpleasant
consequences. For some time, already, Count Lindenau had not been quite
satisfied with his son's tutor. For, although the young man was by no
means neglected, and Behrisch kept himself either in the chamber of the
young Count, or at least close to it, when the instructors gave their
daily lessons, regularly frequented the lectures with him, never went
out in the day-time without him, and accompanied him in all his walks;
yet the rest of us were always to be found in Apel's house, and joined
them whenever they went on a pleasure ramble; this already excited some
attention. Behrisch, too, accustomed himself to our society, and at
last, towards nine o'clock in the evenings, generally transferred his
pupil into the hands of the _valet de chambre_, and went in quest of
us to the wine-house, whither, however, he never used to come but in
shoes and stockings, with his sword by his side, and commonly his hat
under his arm. The jokes and fooleries, which he generally started,
went on _ad infinitum._ Thus, for instance, one of our friends had a
habit of going away precisely at ten, because he had a connexion with a
pretty girl, with whom he could converse only at that hour. We did not
like to lose him; and one evening, when we sat very happily together,
Behrisch secretly determined that he would not let him off this time.
At the stroke of ten, the other arose and took leave. Behrisch called
after him and begged him to wait a moment, as he was just going with
him. He now began, in the most amusing manner, first to look after his
sword, which stood just before his eyes, and in buckling it on behaved
awkwardly, so that he could never accomplish it. He did this, too, so
naturally, that no one took offence at it. But when, to vary the theme,
he at last went further, so that the sword came now on the right side,
now between his legs, an universal laughter arose, in which the man in
a hurry, who was likewise a merry fellow, chimed in, and let Behrisch
have his own way till the happy hour was past, when, for the first
time, there followed general pleasure and agreeable conversation till
deep into the night.

[Side-note: Eccentricities of Behrisch.]

Unfortunately Behrisch, and we through him, had a certain other
propensity for some girls who were better than their reputation; by
which our own reputation could not be improved. We had often been seen
in their garden, and we directed our walks thither, even when the young
Count was with us. All this may have been treasured up, and at last
communicated to his father; enough, he sought, in a gentlemanly manner,
to get rid of the tutor, to whom the event proved fortunate. His good
exterior, his knowledge and talents, his integrity, which no one could
call in question, had won him the affection and esteem of distinguished
persons, on whose recommendation he was appointed tutor to the
hereditary prince of Dessau; and at the court of a prince, excellent in
every respect, found a solid happiness.

The loss of a friend like Behrisch was of the greatest consequence to
me. He had** spoiled, while he cultivated me, and his presence was
necessary, if the pains he had thought good to spend upon me were in
any degree to bring forth fruit for society. He knew how to engage
me in all kinds of pretty and agreeable things, in whatever was just
appropriate, and to bring out my social talents. But as I had gained
no self-dependence in such things, so when I was alone again, I
immediately relapsed into my confused and crabbed disposition, which
always increased, the more discontented I was with those about me,
since I fancied that they were not contented with me. With the most
arbitrary caprice, I took offence at what I might have reckoned as an
advantage to me; thus alienated many with whom I had hitherto stood
on a tolerable footing; and, on account of the many disagreeable
consequences which I had drawn on myself and others, whether by doing
or leaving undone, by doing too much or too little, was obliged to
hear the remark from my well-wishers, that I lacked experience. The
same thing was told me by every person of sound sense who saw my
productions, especially when these referred to the external world.
I observed this as well as I could, but found in it little that was
edifying, and was still forced to add enough of my own to make it only
tolerable. I had often pressed my friend Behrisch, too, that he would
make plain to me what experience might be? But, because he was full
of nonsense, he put me off with fair words from one day to another,
and at last, after great preparations, disclosed to me, that true
experience was properly when one experiences how an experienced man
must experience in experiencing his experience. Now when we scolded
him outrageously, and called him to account for this, he assured us
that a great mystery lay hidden behind these words, which we could not
comprehend until we had experienced ... and so on without end;--for
it cost him nothing to talk on in that way by the quarter of an hour
since the experience would always become more experienced and at last
come to true experience. When we were falling into despair at such
fooleries, he protested that he had learned this way of making himself
intelligible and impressive from the latest and greatest authors, who
had made us observe how one can rest a restful rest, and how silence,
in being silent, can constantly become more silent.

[Side-note: What is Experience?]

By chance an officer, who came among us on furlough, was praised in
good company as a remarkable sound-minded and experienced man, who
had fought through the Seven Years' War, and had gained universal
confidence. It was not difficult for me to approach him, and we often
went walking with each other. The idea of experience had almost become
fixed in my brain, and the craving to make it clear to me passionate.
Open-hearted as I was, I disclosed to him the uneasiness in which I
found myself. He smiled, and was kind enough to tell me, as an answer
to my question, something of his own life, and generally of the world
immediately about us; from which, indeed, little better was to be
gathered than that experience convinces us that our best thoughts,
wishes and designs are unattainable, and that he who fosters such
vagaries and advances them with eagerness, is especially held to be an
inexperienced man.

[Side-note: What is Experience?]

Yet, as he was a gallant, good fellow, he assured me that he had
himself not quite given up these vagaries, and felt himself tolerably
well off with the little faith, love, and hope which remained. He
then felt obliged to tell me a great deal about war, about the sort
of life in the field, about skirmishes and battles, especially so
far as he had taken part in them; when these vast events, by being
considered in relation to a single individual, gained a very marvellous
aspect. I then led him on to an open narration of the late situation
of the court, which seemed to me quite like a tale. I heard of the
bodily strength of Augustus the Second, of his many children and his
vast expenses, then of his successor's love of art and of making
collections, of Count Brühl and his boundless love of magnificence,
which in detail appeared almost absurd, of his numerous banquets and
gorgeous amusements, which were all cut off by Frederick's invasion of
Saxony. The royal castles now lay in ruins, Brühl's splendours were
annihilated, and, of the whole, a glorious land, much injured alone
remained.

When he saw me astonished at that mad enjoyment of fortune, and then
grieved by the calamity that followed, and informed me that one expects
from an experienced man exactly this, that he shall be astonished at
neither the one nor the other, nor take too lively an interest in them,
I felt a great desire still to remain awhile in the same inexperience
as hitherto; in which desire he strengthened me, and very urgently
entreated me, for the present at least, always to cling to agreeable
experiences, and to try to avoid those that were disagreeable as much
as possible, if they should intrude themselves upon me. But once, when
the discussion was again about experience in general, and I related to
him those ludicrous phrases of my friend Behrisch, he shook his head,
smiling, and said, "There, one sees how it is with words which are only
once uttered! These sound so comical, nay, so silly, that it would
seem almost impossible to put a rational meaning into them; and yet,
perhaps, the attempt might be made."

And when I pressed him, he replied in his intelligent, cheerful
manner, "If you will allow me, while commenting on and completing
your friend, to go on after his fashion, think he meant to say, that
experience is nothing else than that one experiences what one does not
wish to experience; which is what it amounts to for the most part, at
least in this world."


[1] "Die Laune des Verliebten," translated as _The Lover's Caprice_,
see p. 241

Footnote 2: "_Exposition_," in a dramatic sense, properly means a
statement of the events which take place before the action of the play
commences.--_Trans._]

[3] The real meaning of the passage is that the idiom "Possen reissen,"
used also with the university word "Suite," so that one can say "Suiten
reissen."--_Trans_.

[4] The lecture-room. The word is also used in university language to
denote a professor's audience.

[5] The humour of the above consists, not in the thoughts, but in the
particular words employed. These have no remarkable effect in English,
as to us the words of Latin origin are often as familiar as those
which have Teutonic roots, and these form the chief peculiarity of the
style. We have therefore given the poem in the original language, with
the peculiar words (as indicated by Goethe) in italics, and subjoin a
literal translation. It will be observed that we have said that the
peculiarity consists _chiefly_, not _solely_, in the use of the foreign
words, for there are two or three instances of unquestionably German
words, which are italicised on account of their high-sounding pomp.

"Oh Hendel, whose fame extends from _south_ to _north_, hear the
_Pæan_ which ascends to thine ears. Thou bakest that which _Gauls_
and _Britons_ industriously seek, (thou bakest) with _creative genius
original_ cakes. The _ocean_ of coffee which pours itself out before
thee, is sweeter than the juice which flows from _Hymettus._ Thy house,
a _monument_, how we reward the arts, hung round with _trophies_, tells
the _nations_: 'Even without a _diadem_, Hendel formed his fortune
here, and robbed the _Cothurnus_ of many an eight-groschen-piece.'
When thine _urn_ shines hereafter in majestic _pomp_, then will the
_patriot_ weep at thy _catacomb._ But live! let thy bed (_torus_)
be the _nest_ of a noble brood, stand high as _Olympus_, and firm
as _Parnassus._ May no _phalanx_ of Greece with Roman _ballistæ_ be
able to destroy _Germania_ and Hendel. Thy _weal_ is our _pride_, thy
_suffering_ our _pain_, and Hendel's _temple_ is the _heart_ of the
_sons of the Muses._"--_Trans._




EIGHTH BOOK.


[Side-note: Oeser.]

Another man, although infinitely different from Behrisch in every
respect, might yet be compared with him in a certain sense; I mean
OESER, who was also one of those men who dream away their lives in
a comfortable state of being busy. His friends themselves secretly
acknowledged that, with very fine natural powers, he had not spent
his younger years in sufficient activity; for which reason, he never
went so far as to practise his art with perfect technicality. Yet
a certain diligence appeared to be reserved for his old age, and,
during the many years which I knew him, he never lacked invention or
laboriousness. From the very first moment he had much attracted me;
even his residence, strange and portentous, was highly charming to me.
In the old castle Pleissenburg, at the right-hand corner, one ascended
a repaired, cheerful, winding staircase. The saloons of the Academy
of Design, of which he was director, were found to the left, and were
light and roomy; but he himself could only be reached through a narrow,
dark passage, at the end of which one first sought the entrance into
his apartments, having just passed between the whole suite of them and
an extensive granary. The first apartment was adorned with pictures
from the later Italian school, by masters whose grace he used highly to
commend. As I, with some noblemen, had taken private lessons of him, we
were permitted to draw here, and we often penetrated into his adjoining
private cabinet, which contained at the same time his few books,
collections of art and natural curiosities, and whatever else might
have most interested him. Everything was arranged with taste, simply,
and in such a manner that the little space held a great deal. The
furniture, presses, and portfolios were elegant, without affectation
or superfluity. Thus also the first thing which he recommended to us,
and to which he always recurred, was simplicity in everything that art
and manual labour united are called upon to produce. As a sworn foe
of the scroll-and-shell style, and of the whole taste for quaintness,
he showed us in copper-plates and drawings old patterns of the sort,
contrasted with better decorations and simpler forms of furniture, as
well as with other appurtenances of a room; and, because everything
about him corresponded with these maxims, his words and instructions
made a good and lasting impression on us. Besides this, he had an
opportunity to let us see his opinions in practice, since he stood in
good consideration both with private and with official persons, and
was asked for advice when there were new buildings and alterations. He
seemed in general to be more fond of preparing anything on occasion,
for a certain end and use, than of undertaking and completing things
which exist for themselves and require a greater perfection; he
was therefore always ready and at hand when the publishers needed
larger and smaller copper-plates for any work; thus the vignettes
to Winckelmann's first writings were etched by him. But he often
made only very sketchy drawings, to which Geyser knew very well how
to adapt himself. His figures had throughout something general, not
to say ideal. His women were pleasing and agreeable, his children
_naïve_ enough; only he could not succeed with the men, who, in his
spirited but always cloudy and at the same time foreshortening manner,
had for the most part the look of _Lazzaroni._ Since he designed his
composition less with regard to form than to light, shade, and masses,
the general effect was good; as indeed all that he did and produced
was attended by a peculiar grace. As he at the same time neither could
nor would control a deep-rooted propensity to the significant and the
allegorical--to that which excites a secondary thought, so his works
always furnished something to reflect upon, and were complete through
a conception, even where they could not be so from art and execution.
This bias, which is always dangerous, frequently led him to the very
bounds of good taste, if not beyond them. He often sought to attain
his views by the oddest notions, and by whimsical jests; nay, his best
works always have a touch of humour. If the public were not always
satisfied with such things, he revenged himself by a new and even
stranger drollery. Thus he afterwards exhibited in the ante-room of
the great concert-hall, an ideal female figure, in his own style, who
was raising a pair of snuffers to a taper, and he was extraordinarily
delighted when he was able to cause a dispute on the question: whether
this singular muse meant to snuff the light or to extinguish it? when
he roguishly allowed all sorts of bantering by-thoughts to peep forth.

But the building of the new theatre, in my time, made the greatest
noise; in which his curtain, when it was still quite new, had certainly
an uncommonly charming effect. Oeser had taken the Muses out of the
clouds, upon which they usually hover on such occasions, and set them
upon the earth. The statues of Sophocles and Aristophanes, around whom
all the modern dramatic writers were assembled, adorned a vestibule to
the Temple of Fame. Here, too, the goddesses of the arts were likewise
present, and all was dignified and beautiful. But now comes the oddity!
Through the open centre was seen the portal of the distant temple, and
a man in a light jerkin was passing between the two above-mentioned
groups, and without troubling himself about them, directly up to
the temple; he was seen from behind, and was not particularly
distinguished. Now this man was to represent Shakspeare, who, without
predecessors or followers, without concerning himself about models,
went to meet immortality in his own way. This work was executed on the
great floor over the new theatre. We often assembled round him there,
and in that place I read aloud to him the proof-sheets of _Musarion._

[Side-note: Influence of Oeser.]

As to myself, I by no means advanced in the practice of the art. His
instructions worked upon our mind and our taste; but his own drawing
was too undefined to guide me, who had only glimmered along by the
objects of art and of nature, to a severe and decided practice. Of the
faces and bodies he gave us rather the aspect than the forms, rather
the postures than the proportions. He gave us the conceptions of the
figures, and desired that we should impress them vividly upon our
minds. That might have been beautifully and properly done, if he had
not had mere beginners before him. If, on this account, a pre-eminent
talent for instruction may be well denied him, it must, on the other
hand, be acknowledged that he was very discreet and politic, and that
a happy adroitness of mind qualified him very peculiarly for a teacher
in a higher sense. The deficiencies under which each one laboured he
clearly saw; but he disdained to reprove them directly, and rather
hinted his praise and censure indirectly and very laconically. One
was now compelled to think over the matter, and soon came to a far
deeper insight. Thus, for instance, I had very carefully executed,
after a pattern, a nosegay on blue paper, with white and black crayon,
and partly with the stump, partly by hatching it up, had tried to
give effect to the little picture. After I had been long labouring in
this way, he once came behind me and said: "More paper!" upon which
he immediately withdrew. My neighbour and I puzzled our heads as to
what this could mean: for my bouquet, on a large half-sheet, had
plenty of space around it. After we had reflected a long while, we
thought, at last, that we had hit his meaning, when we remarked that,
by working together the black and the white, I had quite covered up
the blue ground, had destroyed the middle tint, and, in fact, with
great industry, had produced a disagreeable drawing. As to the rest,
he did not fail to instruct us in perspective, and in light and shade,
sufficiently indeed, but always so that we had to exert and torment
ourselves to find the application of the principles communicated.
Probably his view with regard to us who did not intend to become
artists, was only to form the judgment and taste, and to make us
acquainted with the requisites of a work of art, without precisely
requiring that we should produce one. Since, moreover, patient industry
was not my talent, for nothing gave me pleasure except what came to
me at once, so by degrees I became discouraged, if not lazy, and as
knowledge is more comfortable than doing, I was quite content to follow
wherever he chose, after his own fashion, to lead us.

At this time the _Lives of the Painters_, by D'Argenville, was
translated into German; I obtained it quite fresh, and studied it
assiduously enough. This seemed to please Oeser, and he procured us
an opportunity of seeing many a portfolio out of the great Leipzig
collections, and thus introduced us to the history of the art. But even
these exercises produced in me an effect different from that which he
probably had in mind. The manifold subjects which I saw treated by
artists awakened the poetic talent in me, and as one easily makes an
engraving for a poem, so did I now make poems to the engravings and
drawings, by contriving to present to myself the personages introduced
in them, in their previous and subsequent condition, and sometimes to
compose a little song which might have suited them; and thus accustomed
myself to consider the arts in connexion with each other. Even the
mistakes which I made, so that my poems were often descriptive, were
useful to me in the sequel, when I came to more reflection, by making
me attentive to the differences between the arts. Of the little things
many were in the collection which Behrisch had arranged; but there is
nothing left of them now.

The atmosphere of art and taste in which Oeser lived, and into which
one was drawn, provided one visited him frequently, was the more and
more worthy and delightful, because he was fond of remembering departed
or absent persons, with whom he had been, or still continued to be, on
good terms; for if he had once given any one his esteem, he remained
unalterable in his conduct towards him, and always showed himself
equally friendly.

After we had heard CAYLUS pre-eminently extolled among the French, he
made us also acquainted with Germans of activity in this department.
Thus we learned that Professor CHRIST, as an amateur, a collector, a
connoisseur, a fellow-labourer, had done good service for art; and
had applied his learning to its true improvement. HEINECKEN**, on
the contrary, could not be honourably mentioned, partly because he
devoted himself too assiduously to the ever-childish beginnings of
German art, which Oeser little valued, partly because he had once
treated Winckelmann shabbily, which could never be forgiven him. Our
attention, however, was strongly drawn to the labours of LIPPERT,
since our instructor knew how to set forth his merits sufficiently.
"For," he said, "although single statues and larger groups of sculpture
remain the foundation and the summit of all knowledge of art, yet
either as originals or as casts they are seldom to be seen; on the
contrary, by Lippert, a little world of gems is made known, in which
the more comprehensible merit of the ancients, their happy invention,
judicious composition, tasteful treatment, are made more striking and
intelligible, while, from the great number of them, comparison is much
more possible." While now we were busying ourselves with these as much
as was allowed, WINCKELMANN'S lofty life of art in Italy was pointed
out, and we took his first writings in hand with devotion: for Oeser
had a passionate reverence for him, which he was able easily to instil
into us. The problematical part of those little treatises, which are,
besides, confused even from their irony, and from their referring to
opinions and events altogether peculiar, we were, indeed, unable to
decipher; but as Oeser had great influence over us, and incessantly
gave them out to us as the gospel of the beautiful, and still more
of the tasteful and the pleasing, we found out the general sense,
and fancied that with such interpretations we should go on the more
securely, as we regarded it no small happiness to draw from the same
fountain from which Winckelmann had allayed his earliest thirst.

[Side-note: Feeling for Art in Leipzig.]

No greater good fortune can befall a city, than when several educated
men, like-minded in what is good and right, live together in it.
Leipzig had this advantage, and enjoyed it the more peacefully, as so
many differences of judgment had not yet manifested themselves. HUBER,
a print collector, and a well-experienced connoisseur, had furthermore
the gratefully acknowledged merit of having determined to make the
worth of German literature known to the French; KREUCHAUF, an amateur
with a practised eye, who, as the friend of the whole society of art,
might regard all collections as his own; WINKLER, who much loved to
share with others the intelligent delight which he cherished for his
treasures; many more who were added to the list, all lived and laboured
with one feeling, and often as I was permitted to be present when they
examined works of art, I do not remember that a dispute ever arose: the
school from which the artist had proceeded, the time in which he lived,
the peculiar talent which nature had bestowed on him, and the degree of
excellence to which he had brought it in his performances, were always
fairly considered. There was no prejudice for spiritual or terrestrial
subjects, for landscape or for city views, for animate or inanimate;
the question was always about the accordance with art.

Now although from their situation, mode of thought, abilities, and
opportunities, these amateurs and collectors inclined more to the Dutch
school, yet, while the eye was practised on the endless merits of the
north-western artist, a look of reverential longing was always turned
towards the south-east.

And so the university, where I neglected the ends both of my family
and myself, was to ground me in that in which I afterwards found the
greatest satisfaction of my life; the impression of those localities,
too, in which I received such important incitements, has always
remained to me most dear and precious. The old Pleissenburg, the
rooms of the Academy, but, above all, the abode of Oeser, and no less
the collections of Winkler and Richter, I have always vividly present
before me.

But a young man who, while older persons are conversing with each other
on subjects already familiar to them, is instructed only incidentally,
and for whom the most difficult part of the business, that of rightly
arranging all, yet remains, must find himself in a very painful
situation. I therefore, as well as others, looked about with longing
for some new light, which was indeed to come to us from a man to whom
we owed so much already.

[Side-note: Lessing's Laocoön.]

The mind can be highly delighted in two ways, by perception and
conception. But the former demands a worthy object, which is not
always at hand, and a proportionate culture, which one does not
immediately attain. Conception, on the other hand, requires only
susceptibility; it brings its subject-matter with it, and is itself
the instrument of culture. Hence that beam of light was most welcome
to us which that most excellent thinker brought down to us through
dark clouds. One must be a young man to render present to oneself the
effect which Lessing's _Laocoön_ produced upon us, by transporting
us out of the region of scanty perceptions into the open fields of
thought. The so long misunderstood _ut pictura poesis_ was at once
laid aside, the difference between plastic and speaking art[1] was
made clear, the summits of the two now appeared sundered, however
near their bases might border on each other. The plastic artist was
to keep himself within the bounds of the beautiful, if the artist of
language, who cannot dispense with the significant in any kind, is
permitted to ramble abroad beyond them. The former labours for the
outer sense, which is satisfied only by the beautiful; the latter for
the imagination, which may even reconcile itself to the ugly. All the
consequences of this splendid thought were illumined to us as by a
lightning flash; all the criticism which had hitherto guided and judged
was thrown away like a worn-out coat; we considered ourselves freed
from all evil, and fancied we might venture to look down with some
compassion upon the otherwise so splendid sixteenth century, when, in
German sculptures and poems, they knew how to represent life only under
the form of a fool hung with bells, death under the misformed shape
of a rattling skeleton, and the necessary and accidental evils of the
world under the image of the caricatured devil.

We were the most enchanted with the beauty of that thought, that
the ancients had recognised death as the brother of sleep, and had
represented them similar even to confusion, as becomes Menæchmi. Here
we could first do high honour to the triumph of the beautiful, and
banish the ugly of every kind into the low sphere of the ridiculous in
the kingdom of art, since it could not be utterly driven out of the
world.

The splendour of such leading and fundamental conceptions appears only
to the mind upon which they exercise their infinite activity--appears
only to the age in which, after being longed for, they come forth at
the right moment. Then do those at whose disposal such nourishment is
placed, fondly occupy whole periods of their lives with it, and rejoice
in a superabundant growth; while men are not wanting, meanwhile, who
resist such an effect on the spot, nor others who afterwards haggle and
cavil at its high meaning.

But as conception and perception mutually require each other, I could
not long work up these new thoughts, without an infinite desire arising
within me to see important works of art, once and away, in great
number. I therefore determined to visit Dresden without delay. I was
not in want of the necessary cash; but there were other difficulties
to overcome, which I needlessly increased still further, through my
whimsical disposition; for I kept my purpose a secret from every one,
because I wished to contemplate the treasures of art there quite after
my own way, and, as I thought, to allow no one to perplex me. Besides
this, so simple a matter became more complicated by still another
eccentricity.

We have weaknesses, both by birth and by education, and it may be
questioned which of the two gives us the most trouble. Willingly as
I made myself familiar with all sorts of conditions, and many as had
been my inducements to do so, an excessive aversion from all inns had
nevertheless been instilled into me by my father. This feeling had
rooted itself firmly in him on his travels through Italy, France, and
Germany. Although he seldom spoke in images, and only called them to
his aid when he was very cheerful, yet he used often to repeat that he
always fancied he saw a great cobweb spun across the gate of an inn,
so ingeniously that the insects could indeed fly in, but that even the
privileged wasps could not fly out again unplucked. It seemed to him
something horrible, that one should be obliged to pay immoderately
for renouncing one's habits and all that was dear to one in life,
and living after the manner of publicans and waiters. He praised the
hospitality of the olden time, and reluctantly as he otherwise endured
even anything unusual in the house, he yet practised hospitality,
especially towards artists and virtuosi; thus gossip Seekatz always had
his quarters with us, and Abel, the last musician who handled the _viol
di gamba_ with success and applause, was well received and entertained.
With such youthful impressions, which nothing had as yet rubbed off,
how could I have resolved to set foot in an inn in a strange city?
Nothing would have been easier than to find quarters with good friends.
Hofrath Krebel, Assessor Hermann, and others had often spoken to me
about it already; but even to these my trip was to remain a secret,
and I hit upon a most singular notion. My next-room neighbour, the
industrious theologian, whose eyes unfortunately constantly grew weaker
and weaker, had a relation in Dresden, a shoemaker, with whom from time
to time he corresponded. For a long while already this man had been
highly remarkable to me on account of his expressions, and the arrival
of one of his letters was always celebrated by us as a holiday. The
mode in which he replied to the complaints of his cousin, who feared
blindness, was quite peculiar; for he did not trouble himself about
grounds of consolation, which are always hard to find; but the cheerful
way in which he looked upon his own narrow, poor, toilsome life,
the merriment which he drew even from evils and inconveniences, the
indestructible conviction that life is in itself and on its own account
a blessing, communicated itself to him who read the letter, and, for
the moment at least, transposed him into a like mood. Enthusiastic as
I was, I had often sent my compliments to this man, extolled his happy
natural gift, and expressed the wish to become acquainted with him. All
this being premised, nothing seemed to me more natural than to seek
him out, to converse with him, nay, to lodge with him, and to learn to
know him intimately. My good candidate, after some opposition, gave
me a letter, written with difficulty, to carry with me, and, full of
longing, I went to Dresden in the yellow coach, with my matriculation
in my pocket.

[Side-note: The Dresden Shoemaker.]

I looked for my shoemaker, and soon found him in the suburb
(_Vorstadt_). He received me in a friendly manner, sitting upon his
stool, and said smiling, after he had read the letter, "I see from
this, young Sir, that you are a whimsical Christian." "How so, master?"
replied I. "No offence meant by '_whimsical_,'" he continued; "one
calls every one so who is not consistent with himself; and I call you
a whimsical Christian because you acknowledge yourself a follower of
our Lord in one thing, but not in another." On my requesting him to
enlighten me, he said further: "It seems that your view is to announce
glad tidings to the poor and lowly; that is good, and this imitation
of the Lord is praiseworthy; but you should reflect besides, that he
rather sat down to table with prosperous rich folks, where there was
good fare, and that he himself did not despise the sweet scent of the
ointment, of which you will find the opposite in my house."

This pleasant beginning put me at once in good-humour, and we rallied
each other for some time. His wife stood doubting how she should board
and lodge such a guest. On this point, too, he had notions which
referred not only to the Bible, but also to _Gottfried's Chronicle_,
and when we were agreed that I was to stay, I gave my purse, such as
it was, into the charge of my hostess, and requested her to furnish
herself from it, if anything should be necessary. When he would have
declined it, and somewhat waggishly gave me to understand that he was
not so burnt out as he might appear, I disarmed him by saying, "Even
if it were only to change water into wine, such a well-tried domestic
resource would not be out of place, since there are no more miracles
now-a-days." The hostess seemed to find my conduct less and less
strange; we had soon accommodated ourselves to each other, and spent
a very merry evening. He remained always the same, because all flowed
from one source. His peculiarity was an apt common-sense, which rested
upon a cheerful disposition, and took delight in uniform habitual
activity. That he should labour incessantly was his first and most
necessary care; that he regarded everything else as secondary,--this
kept up his comfortable state of mind; and I must reckon him before
many others in the class of those who are called practical unconscious
philosophers.[2]

The hour when the gallery was to open, after being expected with
impatience, appeared. I entered into this sanctuary, and my
astonishment surpassed every conception which I had formed. This
saloon, returning into itself, in which splendour and neatness reigned,
together with the deepest stillness, the dazzling frames, all nearer
to the time in which they had been gilded, the floor polished with
bees'-wax, the spaces more trodden by spectators than used by copyists,
imparted a feeling of solemnity, unique of its kind, which so much
the more resembled the sensation with which one treads a church, as
the adornments of so many a temple, the objects of so much adoration,
seemed here again set up only for the sacred purposes of art. I readily
put up with the cursory description of my conductor; only I requested
that I might be allowed to remain in the outer gallery. Here, to my
comfort, I found myself really at home. I had already seen the works
of several artists, others I knew from engravings, others by name.
I did not conceal this, and I thus inspired my conductor with some
confidence; nay, the rapture which I expressed at pieces where the
pencil had gained the victory over nature, delighted him; for such were
the things which principally attracted me, where the comparison with
known nature must necessarily enhance the value of art.

When I again entered my shoemaker's house to dinner, I scarcely
believed my eyes; for I fancied I saw before me a picture by Ostade,
so perfect that one could only hang it up in the gallery. The position
of the objects, the light, the shadow, the brownish tint of the whole,
the magical harmony, everything that one admires in those pictures,
I here saw in reality. It was the first time that I perceived, in so
high a degree, the faculty which I afterwards exercised with more
consciousness, namely, that of seeing nature with the eyes of this or
that artist, to whose works I had devoted a particular attention. This
faculty has afforded me much enjoyment, but has also increased the
desire zealously to abandon myself, from time to time, to the exercise
of a talent which nature seemed to have denied me.

[Side-note: Counsellor Riedel.]

I visited the gallery at all permitted hours, and continued to express
too loudly my ecstasy at many precious works. I thus frustrated my
laudable purpose of remaining unknown and unnoticed; and whereas only
one of the under-keepers had hitherto had intercourse with me, the
gallery-inspector, Counsellor Riedel, now also took notice of me, and
made me attentive to many things which seemed chiefly to lie within my
sphere. I found this excellent man just as active and obliging then, as
when I afterwards saw him during many years, and as he shows himself
to this day. His image has, for me, interwoven itself so closely with
those treasures of art, that I can never regard the two apart; the
remembrance of him has even accompanied me to Italy, where, in many
large and rich collections, his presence would have been very desirable.

Since, even with strangers and unknown persons, one cannot gaze on
such works silently and without mutual sympathy, nay, since the first
sight of them is rather adapted, in the highest degree, to open hearts
towards each other, I fell there into conversation with a young man who
seemed to be residing at Dresden, and to belong to some embassy. He
invited me to come in the evening to an inn where a lively company met,
and where, by each one's paying a moderate reckoning, one could pass
some very pleasant hours.

I repaired thither, but did not find the company; and the waiter
somewhat surprised me when he delivered the compliments of the
gentleman who made the appointment with me, by which the latter sent
an excuse for coming somewhat later, with the addition that I must not
take offence at anything that might occur; also, that I should have
nothing to pay beyond my own score. I knew not what to make of these
words; my father's cobwebs came into my head, and I composed myself to
await whatever might befall. The company assembled, my acquaintance
introduced me, and I could not be attentive long, without discovering
that they were aiming at the mystification of a young man, who showed
himself a novice by an obstreperous, assuming deportment; I therefore
kept very much on my guard, so that they might not find delight
in selecting me as his fellow. At table this intention became more
apparent to everybody, except to himself. They drank deeper and deeper,
and when a _vivat_ in honour of sweethearts was started, every one
solemnly swore that there should never be another out of those glasses;
they flung them behind them; and this was the signal for far greater
follies. At last I withdrew, very quietly, and the waiter, while
demanding quite a moderate reckoning, requested me to come again, as
they did not go on so wildly every evening. I was far from my lodgings,
and it was near midnight when I reached them. I found the doors
unlocked, everybody was in bed, and one lamp illuminated the narrow
domestic household, where my eye, more and more practised, immediately
perceived the finest picture by Schalken, from which I could not tear
myself away, so that it banished from me all sleep.

The few days of my residence in Dresden were solely devoted to the
picture-gallery. The antiquities still stood in the pavilion of the
great garden, but I declined seeing them, as well as all the other
precious things which Dresden contained; being but too full of the
conviction that, even in and about the collection of paintings much
must yet remain hidden from me. Thus I took the excellence of the
Italian masters more on trust and in faith, than by pretending to any
insight into them. What I could not look upon as nature, put in the
place of nature, and compare with a known object, was without effect
upon me. It is the material impression which makes the beginning even
to every more elevated amateurship.

With my shoemaker I lived on very good terms. He was witty and
varied enough, and we often outvied each other in merry conceits;
nevertheless, a man who thinks himself happy, and desires others
to do the same, makes us discontented; indeed, the repetition of
such sentiments produces weariness. I found myself well occupied,
entertained, excited, but by no means happy; and the shoes from his
last would not fit me. We parted, however, as the best friends; and
even my hostess, on my departure, was not dissatisfied with me.

Shortly before my departure, something else very pleasant was to
happen. By the mediation of that young man, who wished to restore
himself to some credit with me, I was introduced to the Director Von
Hagedorn, who with great kindness showed me his collection, and was
highly delighted with the enthusiasm of the young lover of art. He
himself, as becomes a connoisseur, was quite peculiarly in love with
the pictures which he possessed, and therefore seldom found in others
an interest such as he wished. It gave him particular satisfaction that
I was beyond measure pleased with a picture by Schwanefeld, and that I
was not tired of praising and extolling it in every single part; for
landscapes, which again reminded me of the beautiful clear sky under
which I had grown up---of the vegetable luxuriance of those spots--and
of whatever other favours a warmer climate offers to man, were just the
things that most affected me in the imitation, while they awakened in
me a longing remembrance.

[Side-note: State of Dresden.]

These precious experiences, preparing both mind and sense for true art,
were nevertheless interrupted and damped by one of the most melancholy
sights, by the destroyed and desolate condition of so many of the
streets of Dresden through which I took my way. The Mohrenstrasse in
ruins, and the Church (_Kreuzkirche_) of the Cross, with its shattered
tower, impressed themselves deeply upon me, and still stand like a
gloomy spot in my imagination. From the cupola of the Lady Church
(_Frauenkirche_)** I saw these pitiable ruins scattered about amid the
beautiful order of the city. Here the clerk commended to me the art
of the architect, who had already fitted up church and cupola for so
undesirable an event, and had built them bomb-proof. The good sacristan
then pointed out to me the ruins on-all sides, and said doubtfully and
laconically, "_The enemy hath done this!_"

Now then, at last, though unwillingly, I returned back to Leipzig, and
found my friends, who were not used to such digressions in me, in great
astonishment, busied with all sorts of conjectures as to what might
be the import of my mysterious journey. When upon this I told them my
story quite in order, they declared it was only a made-up tale, and
sagaciously tried to get at the bottom of the riddle which I had been
waggish enough to conceal under my shoemaker-lodgings.

But could they have looked into my heart, they would have discovered no
waggery there; for the truth of that old proverb, "He that increaseth
knowledge increaseth sorrow," had struck me with all its force; and
the more I struggled to arrange and appropriate to myself what I had
seen, the less I succeeded. I had at last to content myself with a
silent after-operation. Ordinary life carried me away again, and I
at last felt myself quite comfortable when a friendly intercourse,
improvement in branches of knowledge which were suitable for me, and a
certain practice of the hand, engaged me in a manner less important,
but more in accordance with my strength.

Very pleasant and wholesome for me was the connexion which I formed
with the Breitkopf family. BERNHARD CHRISTOPH BREITKOPF, the proper
founder of the family, who had come to Leipzig as a poor journeyman
printer, was yet living, and occupied the Golden Bear, a respectable
house in the new Newmarket, with Gottsched as an inmate. The son,
Johann Gottlob Immanuel, had already been long married, and was the
father of many children. They thought they could not spend a part of
their considerable wealth better than in putting up, opposite the
first house, a large new one, the Silver Bear, which they built higher
and more extensive than the original house itself. Just at the time
of the building I became acquainted with the family. The eldest son
might have been some years older than I was, a well-formed young man,
devoted to music, and practised to play skilfully on both the piano
and the violin. The second, a true, good soul, likewise musical,
enlivened the concerts which were often got up, no less than his elder
brother. They were both kindly disposed towards me, as well as their
parents and sisters. I lent them a helping-hand during the building up
and the finishing, the furnishing and the moving in, and thus formed
a conception of much that belongs to such an affair; I also had an
opportunity of seeing Oeser's instructions put in practice. In the new
house, which I had thus seen erected, I was often a visitor. We had
many pursuits in common, and the eldest son set some of my songs to
music, which, when printed, bore his name, but not mine, and have been
little known. I have selected the best, and inserted them among my
other little poems. The father had invented or perfected musical type.
He permitted me the use of a fine library, which related principally to
the origin and progress of printing, and thus I gained some knowledge
in that department. I found there moreover, good copper-plates, which
exhibited antiquity, and advanced on this side also my studies, which
were still further promoted by the circumstance that a considerable
collection of casts had fallen into disorder in moving. I set them
right again as well as I could, and in doing so was compelled to search
Lippert and other authorities. A physician, Doctor REICHEL, likewise an
inmate of the house, I consulted from time to time when I felt, if not
sick, yet unwell, and thus we led together a quiet, pleasant life.

[Side-note: Taste for Etching.]

I was now to enter into another sort of connexion in this house; for
the copper-plate engraver, STOCK, had moved into the attic. He was
a native of Nuremberg, a very industrious man, and, in his labours,
precise and methodical. He also, like Geyser, engraved, after Oeser's
designs, larger and smaller plates, which came more and more into vogue
for novels and poems. He etched very neatly, so that his work came out
of the aquafortis almost finished, and but little touching-up remained
to be done with the graver, which he handled very well. He made an
exact calculation how long a plate would occupy him, and nothing could
call him off from his work if he had not completed the daily task he
had set himself. Thus he sat at a broad work-table, by the great**
gable-window, in a very neat and orderly chamber, where his wife and
two daughters afforded him a domestic society. Of these last, one
is happily married, and the other is an excellent artist; they have
continued my friends all my life long. I now divided my time between
the upper and lower stories, and attached myself much to the man, who,
together with his persevering industry, possessed an excellent humour,
and was good-nature itself.

The technical neatness of this branch of art charmed me, and I
associated myself with him to execute something of the kind. My
predilection was again directed towards landscape, which, while it
amused me in my solitary walks, seemed in itself more attainable and
more comprehensible for works of art than the human figure, which
discouraged me. Under his directions, therefore, I etched, after
THIELE and others, various landscapes, which, although executed by an
unpractised hand, produced some effect, and were well received. The
grounding (varnishing) of the plates, the putting in the high lights,
the etching, and at last the biting with aquafortis, gave me variety
of occupation, and I soon got so far that I could assist my master in
many things. I did not lack the attention necessary for the biting,
and I seldom failed in anything; but I had not care enough in guarding
against the deleterious vapours which are generated on such occasions,
and these may have contributed to the maladies which afterwards
troubled me for a long time. Amidst such labours, that everything
might be tried, I often made wood-cuts also. I prepared various little
printing-blocks after French patterns, and many of them were found fit
for use.

Let me here make mention of some other men who resided in Leipzig, or
tarried there for a short time. WEISSE, the custom-house collector of
the district, in his best years, cheerful, friendly, and obliging, was
loved and esteemed by us. We would not, indeed, allow his theatrical
pieces to be models throughout, but we suffered ourselves to be
carried away by them, and his operas, set to music by Hiller in an
easy style, gave us much pleasure. SCHIEBLER, of Hamburgh, pursued the
same track; and his _Lisuard and Dariolette_ was likewise favoured by
us. ESCHENBURG, a handsome young man, but little older than we were,
distinguished himself advantageously among the students. ZACHARIÆ
was pleased to spend some weeks with us, and being introduced by his
brother, dined every day with us at the same table. We rightly deemed
it an honour to gratify our guest in return, by a few extra dishes,
a richer dessert, and choicer wine; for, as a tall, well-formed,
comfortable man, he did not conceal his love of good eating. LESSING
came at a time when we had I know not what in our heads; it was our
good pleasure to go nowhere on his account, nay, even to avoid the
places to which he came, probably because we thought ourselves too
good to stand at a distance, and could make no pretension to obtain a
closer intimacy with him. This momentary absurdity, which, however, is
nothing rare in presuming and freakish youth, proved, indeed, its own
punishment in the sequel; for I have never set eyes on that eminent
man, who was most highly esteemed by me.

Notwithstanding all our efforts relative to art and antiquity, we
each of us always had WINCKELMANN before our eves, whose ability
was acknowledged in his fatherland with enthusiasm. We read his
writings diligently, and tried to make ourselves acquainted with the
circumstances under which he had written the first of them. We found in
them many views which seemed to have originated with Oeser, even jests
and whims after his fashion, and we did not rest until we had formed
some general conception of the occasion on which these remarkable and
sometimes so enigmatical writings had arisen, though we were not very
accurate; for youth likes better to be excited than instructed, and it
was not the last time that I was to be indebted to Sibylline leaves for
an important step in cultivation.

[Side-note: Death of Winckelmann.]

It was then a fine period in literature, when eminent men were yet
treated with respect, although the disputes of Klotz and Lessing's
controversies, already indicated that this epoch would soon close.
Winckelmann enjoyed an universal, unassailed reverence, and it is
known how sensitive he was with regard to anything public which did
not seem commensurate with his deeply felt dignity. All the periodical
publications joined in his praise, the better class of tourists came
back from him instructed and enraptured, and the new views which he
gave extended themselves over science and life. The Prince of Dessau
had raised himself up to a similar degree of respect. Young, well and
nobly minded, he had on his travels and at other times shown himself
truly desirable. Winckelmann was in the highest degree delighted with
him, and, whenever he mentioned him, loaded him with the handsomest
epithets. The laying out of a park, then unique, the taste for
architecture, which Von Erdmannsdorf supported by his activity,
everything spoke in favour of a prince, who, while he was a shining
example for the rest, gave promise of a golden age for his servants and
subjects. We young people now learned with rejoicings that Winckelmann
would return back from Italy, visit his princely friend, call on
Oeser by the way, and so come within our sphere of vision. We made no
pretensions to speaking with him, but we hoped to see him; and as at
that time of life one willingly changes every occasion into a party
of pleasure, we had already agreed upon a journey to Dessau, where,
in a beautiful spot, made glorious by art, in a land well governed,
and at the same time externally adorned, we thought to lie in wait
now here, now there, in order to see with our own eyes these men so
highly exalted above us walking about. Oeser himself was quite elated
if he only thought of it, and the news of Winckelmann's death fell down
into the midst of us like a thunderbolt from a clear sky. I still
remember the place where I first heard it; it was in the court of the
Pleissenburg, not far from the little gate through which one used to
go up to Oeser's residence. One of my fellow-pupils met me and told
me that Oeser was not to be seen, with the reason why. This monstrous
event[3] produced a monstrous effect; there was an universal mourning
and lamentation, and Winckelmann's untimely death sharpened the
attention paid to the value of his life. Perhaps, indeed, the effect
of his activity, if he had continued it to a more advanced age, would
probably not have been so great as it now necessarily became, when,
like many other extraordinary men, he was distinguished by fate through
a strange and calamitous end.

Now, while I was infinitely lamenting the death of Winckelmann, I
did not think that I should soon find myself in the case of being
apprehensive about my own life: since, during all these events, my
bodily condition had not taken the most favourable turn. I had already
brought with me from home a certain touch of hypochondria, which, in
this new sedentary and lounging life, was rather strengthened than
diminished. The pain in the breast, which I had felt from time to
time ever since the accident at Auerstädt, and which after a fall
from horseback had perceptibly increased, made me dejected. By an
unfortunate diet, I destroyed my powers of digestion; the heavy
Merseburg beer clouded my brain; the coffee, which gave me a peculiarly
melancholy tone, especially when taken with milk after dinner,
paralysed my bowels, and seemed completely to suspend their functions,
so that I experienced great uneasiness on this account, yet without
being able to embrace a resolution for a more rational mode of life.
My natural disposition, supported by the sufficient strength of youth,
fluctuated between the extremes of unrestrained gaiety and melancholy
discomfort. Besides this, the epoch of the cold water bath, which was
unconditionally recommended, had then begun. One was to sleep on a
hard bed, only slightly covered, by which all the usual perspiration
was suppressed. These and other follies, in consequence of some
misunderstood suggestions of Rousseau, would, it was promised, bring
us nearer to nature, and deliver us from the corruption of morals.
Now, all the above, without discrimination, applied with injudicious
alternation, were felt by many most injuriously, and I irritated my
happy organization to such a degree, that the particular systems
contained within it necessarily broke out at last into a conspiracy and
revolution, in order to save the whole.

One night I awoke with a violent hæmorrhage, and had just strength and
presence of mind enough to waken my next room neighbour. Dr. Reichel
was called in, who assisted me in the most friendly manner, and thus
for many days I wavered betwixt life and death; and even the joy of
a subsequent improvement was embittered by the circumstance that,
during that eruption, a tumour had formed on the left side of the neck,
which, after the danger was past, they now first found time to notice.
Recovery is, however, always pleasing and delightful, even though it
takes place slowly and painfully; and since nature had helped herself
with me, I appeared now to have become another man: for I had gained a
greater cheerfulness of mind than I had known for a long time, and I
was rejoiced to feel my inner self at liberty, although externally a
wearisome affliction threatened me.

But what particularly set me up at this time was, to see how many
eminent men had, undeservedly, given me their affection. Undeservedly,
I say: for there was not one among them to whom I had not been
troublesome through contradictory humours, not one whom I had not more
than once wounded by morbid absurdity, nay, whom I had not stubbornly
avoided for a long time, from a feeling of my own injustice. All this
was forgotten; they treated me in the most affectionate manner, and
sought, partly in my chamber, partly as soon as I could leave it, to
amuse and divert me. They drove out with me, entertained me at their
country-houses, and I seemed soon to recover.

[Side-note: Dr. Hermann.]

Among these friends I name first of all Doctor HERMANN, then senator,
afterwards burgomaster of Leipzig. He was among those boarders with
whom I had become acquainted through Schlosser, the one with whom an
always equable and enduring connexion was maintained. One might well
reckon him the most industrious of his academical fellow-citizens. He
attended his lectures with the greatest regularity, and his private
industry remained always the same. Step by step, without the slightest
deviation, I saw him attain his Doctor's degree, and then raise himself
to the assessorship, without anything of all this appearing arduous to
him, or his having in the least hurried or been too late with anything.
The gentleness of his character attracted me, his instructive
conversation held me fast; indeed I really believe that I took delight
in his methodical industry especially for this reason, because I
thought, by acknowledgments and high esteem, to appropriate to myself
at least a part of a merit of which I could by no means boast.

He was just as regular in the exercise of his talents and the enjoyment
of his pleasures as in his business. He played the harpsichord with
great skill, drew from nature with feeling, and stimulated me to do
the same; when, in his manner, on grey paper and with black and white
chalk, I used to copy many a willow-plot on the Pleisse, and many a
lovely nook of those still waters, and at the same time longingly
to indulge in my fancies. He knew how to meet my sometimes comical
disposition with merry jests, and I remember many pleasant hours
which we spent together when he invited me, with mock solemnity, to a
_tête-à-tête_ supper, where, with some dignity, by the light of waxen
candles, we ate what they call a council-hare, which had run into his
kitchen as a perquisite of his place, and with many jokes in the manner
of Behrisch, were pleased to season the meat and heighten the spirit of
the wine. That this excellent man, who is still constantly labouring
in his respectable office, rendered me the most faithful assistance
during a disease, of which there was indeed a foreboding, but which had
not been foreseen in its full extent, that he bestowed every leisure
hour upon me, and by remembrances of former happy times, contrived to
brighten the gloomy moment, I still acknowledge with the sincerest
thanks, and rejoice that after so long a time I can give them publicly.

Besides this worthy friend, GROENING of Bremen particularly interested
himself in me. I had made his acquaintance only a short time before,
and first discovered his good feeling towards me during my misfortune;
I felt the value of this favour the more warmly, as no one is apt to
seek a closer connexion with invalids. He spared nothing to give me
pleasure, to draw me away from musing on my situation, to hold up to my
view and promise me recovery and a wholesome activity in the nearest
future. How often have I been delighted, in the progress of life, to
hear how this excellent man has in the weightiest affairs shown himself
useful, and indeed a blessing to his native city.

Here, too, it was that friend HORN uninterruptedly brought into action
his love and attention. The whole Breitkopf household, the Stock
family, and many others, treated me like a near relative; and thus,
through the good-will of so many friendly persons, the feeling of my
situation was soothed in the tenderest manner.

[Side-note: Langer.]

I must here, however, make particular mention of a man, with whom
I first became acquainted at this time, and whose instructive
conversation so far blinded me to the miserable state in which I was,
that I actually forgot it. This was LANGER, afterwards librarian at
Wolfenbüttel. Eminently learned and instructed, he was delighted at
my voracious hunger after knowledge, which, with the irritability of
sickness, now broke out into a perfect fever. He tried to calm me
by perspicuous summaries, and I have been very much indebted to his
acquaintance, short as it was, since he understood how to guide me in
various ways, and made me attentive whither I had to direct myself at
the present moment. I found myself the more obliged to this important
man, as my intercourse exposed him to some danger: for when, after
Behrisch, he got the situation of tutor to the young Count Lindenau,
the father made it an express condition with the new Mentor that he
should have no intercourse with me. Curious to become acquainted with
such a dangerous subject, he frequently found means of meeting me
indirectly. I soon gained his affection, and he, more prudent than
Behrisch, called for me by night; we went walking together, conversed
on interesting things, and at last I accompanied him to the very door
of his mistress; for even this externally severe, earnest, scientific
man had not kept free from the toils of a very amiable lady.

German literature, and with it my own poetical undertakings, had
already for some time become strange to me, and as is usually the
result in such an auto-didactic circular course, I turned back towards
the beloved ancients who still constantly, like distant blue mountains,
distinct in their outlines and masses, but indiscernible in their parts
and internal relations, bounded the horizon of my intellectual wishes.
I made an exchange with Langer, in which I at last played the part of
Glaucus and Diomedes; I gave up to him whole baskets of German poets
and critics, and received in return a number of Greek authors, the
reading of whom was to give me recreation, even during the most tedious
convalescence.

The confidence which new friends repose in each other usually developes
itself by degrees. Common occupation and tastes are the first things
in which a mutual harmony shows itself; then the mutual communication
generally extends over past and present passions, especially over love
affairs; but it is a lower depth which opens itself, if the connexion
is to be perfected; the religious sentiments, the affairs of the heart
which relate to the imperishable, are the things which both establish
the foundation and adorn the summit of a friendship.

The Christian religion was wavering between its own historically
positive base and a pure deism, which, grounded on morality, was in its
turn to lay the foundation of ethics. The diversity of characters and
modes of thought here showed itself in infinite gradations, especially
when a leading difference was brought into play by the question arising
as to how great a share the reason, and how great a share the feelings
could and should bear a part in such convictions. The most lively and
ingenious men showed themselves, in this instance, like butterflies,
who, quite regardless of their caterpillar state, throw away the
chrysalis veil in which they have grown up to their organic perfection.
Others, more honestly and modestly minded, might be compared to the
flowers, which, although they unfold themselves to the most beautiful
bloom, yet do not tear themselves from the root, from the mother stalk,
nay, rather through this family connexion first bring the desired fruit
to maturity. Of this latter class was Langer; for, although a learned
man, and eminently versed in books, he would yet give the Bible a
peculiar pre-eminence over the other writings which have come down to
us, and regard it as a document from which alone we could prove our
moral and spiritual pedigree. He belonged to those who cannot conceive
an immediate connexion with the great God of the universe; a mediation,
therefore, was necessary for him, an analogy to which he thought he
could find everywhere, in earthly and heavenly things. His discourse,
which was pleasing and consistent, easily found a hearing with a young
man who, separated from worldly things by an annoying illness, found it
highly desirable to turn the activity of his mind towards the heavenly.
Grounded as I was in the Bible, all that was wanted was merely the
faith to explain as divine that which I had hitherto esteemed in human
fashion.--a belief, the easier for me, since I had made my first
acquaintance with that book as a divine one. To a sufferer, to one who
felt himself delicate, nay, weak, the gospel was therefore welcome,
and even though Langer, with all his faith, was at the same time a
very sensible man, and firmly maintained that one should not let the
feelings prevail, should not let oneself be led astray into mysticism,
I could not have managed to occupy myself with the New Testament
without feeling and enthusiasm.

In such conversations we spent much time, and he grew so fond of me
as an honest and well-prepared proselyte, that he did not scruple to
sacrifice to me many of the hours destined for his fair one, and even
to run the risk of being betrayed and looked upon unfavourably by his
patron, like Behrisch. I returned his affection in the most grateful
manner; and if what he did for me would have been of value at any time,
I could not but regard it, in my present condition, as worthy of the
highest honour.

[Side-note: Riot at Leipzig.]

But as when the concert of our souls is most spiritually attuned, the
rude shrieking tones of the world usually break in most violently and
boisterously, and the contrast which has gone on exercising a secret
control affects us so much the more sensibly when it comes forward all
at once; thus was I not to be dismissed from the peripatetic school of
my Langer without having first witnessed an event, strange at least
for Leipzig, namely, a tumult which the students excited, and that
on the following pretence. Some young people had quarrelled with the
city soldiers, and the affair had not gone off without violence. Many
of the students combined together to revenge the injuries inflicted.
The soldiers resisted stubbornly, and the advantage was not on the
side of the very discontented academical citizens. It was now said
that respectable persons had commended and rewarded the conquerors for
their valiant resistance, and by this, the youthful feeling of honour
and revenge was mightily excited. It was publicly said that on the
next evening windows would be broken in, and some friends who brought
me word that this was actually taking place, were obliged to carry me
there, for youth and the multitude are always attracted by danger and
tumult. There really began a strange spectacle. The otherwise open
street was lined on one side with men who, quite quiet, without noise
or movement, were waiting to see what would happen. About a dozen young
fellows were walking singly up and down the empty side-walk, with the
greatest apparent composure, but as soon as they came opposite the
marked house, they threw stones at the windows as they passed by, and
this repeatedly as they returned backwards and forwards, as long as
the panes would rattle. Just as quietly as this was done, all at last
dispersed, and the affair had no further consequences.

With such a ringing echo of university exploits, I left Leipzig in the
September of 1768, in a comfortable hired coach, and in the company of
some respectable persons of my acquaintance. In the neighbourhood of
Auerstädt I thought of that previous accident; but I could not forebode
that which many years afterwards would threaten me from thence with
still greater danger; just as little as in Gotha, where we had the
castle shown to us, I could think in the great hall adorned with stucco
figures, that so much favour and affection would befall me on that very
spot.

The nearer I approached my native city, the more I recalled to myself
doubtingly the circumstances, prospects, and hopes with which I had
left home, and it was a very disheartening feeling that I now returned,
as it were, like one shipwrecked. Yet since I had not very much with
which to reproach myself, I contrived to compose myself tolerably well;
however, the welcome was not without emotion. The great vivacity of
my nature, excited and heightened by sickness, caused an impassioned
scene. I might have looked worse than I myself knew, since for a long
time I had not consulted a looking-glass; and who does not become used
to himself? Enough, they silently resolved to communicate many things
to me only by degrees, and before all things to let me have some repose
both bodily and mental.

[Side-note: State of Goethe's Family.]

My sister immediately associated herself with me, and as previously,
from her letters, so I could now more in detail and accurately
understand the circumstances and situation of the family. My father
had, after my departure, concentrated all his didactic taste upon my
sister, and in a house completely shut up, rendered secure by peace,
and even cleared of lodgers, he had cut off from her almost every
means of looking about and recreating herself abroad. She had by turns
to pursue and work at French, Italian, and English, besides which he
compelled her to practise a great part of the day on the harpsichord.
Her writing also could not be neglected, and I had already remarked
that he had directed her correspondence with me, and had let his
doctrines come to me through her pen. My sister was and still continued
to be an undefinable being, the most singular mixture of strength and
weakness, of stubbornness and pliability, which qualities operated
now united, now isolated by will and inclination. Thus she had, in a
manner which seemed to me fearful, turned the hardness of her character
against her father, whom she did not forgive for having hindered or
embittered to her so many innocent joys for these three years, and of
his good and excellent qualities she would not acknowledge even one.
She did all that he commanded and arranged, but in the most unamiable
manner in the world. She did it in the established routine, but nothing
more and nothing less. From love or a desire to please she accommodated
herself to nothing, so that this was one of the first things about
which my mother complained in a private conversation with me. But since
love was as essential to my sister as to any human being, she turned
her affection wholly on me. Her care in nursing and entertaining me
absorbed all her time; her female companions, who were swayed by her
without her intending it, had likewise to contrive all sorts of things
to be pleasing and consolatory to me. She was inventive in cheering me
up, and even developed some germs of comical humour which I had never
known in her, and which became her very well. There soon arose between
us a coterie-language, by which we could converse before all people
without their understanding us, and she often used this gibberish with
great pertness in the presence of our parents.

My father was personally in tolerable comfort. He was in good health,
spent a great part of the day in the instruction of my sister, wrote at
the description of his travels, and was longer in tuning his lute than
in playing on it. He concealed at the same time, as well as he could,
his vexation at finding instead of a stout active son, who ought now
to take his degree and run through the prescribed course of life, an
invalid who seemed to suffer still more in soul than in body. He did
not conceal his wish that they would be expeditious with my cure; but
one was forced to be specially on one's guard in his presence against
hypochondriacal expressions, because he could then become passionate
and bitter.

[Side-note: Fräulein von Klettenberg.]

My mother, by nature very lively and cheerful, spent under these
circumstances very tedious days. Her little housekeeping was soon
provided for. The mind of the good lady, internally never unoccupied,
wished to find an interest in something, and that which was nearest
at hand was religion, which she embraced the more fondly as her most
eminent female friends were cultivated and hearty worshippers of God.
At the head of these stood Fräulein von Klettenberg. She is the same
person from whose conversations and letters arose the "Confessions of
a Beautiful Soul," which are found inserted in "Wilhelm Meister." She
was slenderly formed, of the middle size; a hearty natural demeanour
had been made still more pleasing by the manners of the world and the
court. Her very neat attire reminded of the dress of the Hernhutt
ladies. Her serenity and peace of mind never left her. She looked upon
her sickness as a necessary element of her transient earthly existence;
she suffered with the greatest patience, and, in painless intervals,
was lively and talkative. Her favourite, nay, indeed, perhaps her only
conversation, was on the moral experiences which a man who observes
himself can form in himself; to which was added the religious views
which, in a very graceful manner, nay, with genius, came under her
consideration as natural and supernatural. It scarcely needs more to
recall back to the friends of such representations, that complete
delineation composed from the very depths of her soul. Owing to the
very peculiar course which she had taken from her youth upwards, the
distinguished rank in which she had been born and educated, and the
liveliness and originality of her mind, she did not agree very well
with the other ladies who had set out on the same road to salvation.
Frau Griesbach, the chief of them, seemed too severe, too dry, too
learned; she knew, thought, comprehended more than the others, who
contented themselves with the development of their feelings, and she
was therefore burdensome to them, because every one neither could nor
would carry with her so great an apparatus on the road to bliss. But
for this reason the most of them were indeed somewhat monotonous,
since they confined themselves to a certain terminology which might
well have been compared to that of the later sentimentalists. Fräulein
von Klettenberg led her way between both extremes, and seemed, with
some self-complacency, to see her own reflection in the image of Count
Zinzendorf, whose opinions and actions bore witness to a higher birth
and more distinguished rank. Now she found in me what she needed,
a lively young creature, striving after an unknown happiness, who,
although he could not think himself an extraordinary sinner, yet found
himself in no comfortable condition, and was perfectly healthy neither
in body nor soul. She was delighted with what nature had given me, as
well as with much which I had gained for myself. And if she conceded to
me many advantages, this was by no means humiliating to her: for, in
the first place, she never thought of emulating one of the male sex,
and secondly, she believed that in regard to religious culture she was
very much in advance of me. My disquiet, my impatience, my striving,
my seeking, investigating, musing, and wavering, she interpreted in
her own way, and did not conceal from me her conviction, but assured
me in plain terms that all this proceeded from my having no reconciled
God. Now I had believed from my youth upwards that I stood on very good
terms with my God, nay, I even fancied to myself, according to various
experiences, that He might even be in arrears to me; and I was daring
enough to think that I had something to forgive Him. This presumption
was grounded on my infinite good-will, to which, as it seemed to me,
He should have given better assistance. It may be imagined how often
I and my female friend fell into disputes on this subject, which,
however, always terminated in the friendliest way, and often, like
my conversations with the old rector, with the remark: "that I was a
foolish fellow, for whom many allowances must be made."

I was much troubled with the tumour in my neck, as the physician and
surgeon wished first to disperse this excrescence, afterwards, as they
said, to draw it to a head, and at last thought good to open it; so for
a long time I had to sutler more from inconvenience than pain, although
towards the end of the cure, the continual touching with lunar caustic
and other corrosive substances could not but give me very disagreeable
prospects for every fresh day. The physician and surgeon both belonged
to the Pious Separatists, although both were of highly different
natural characters. The surgeon, a slender, well-built man, of easy
and skilful hand, was unfortunately somewhat hectic, but endured his
condition with truly Christian patience, and did not suffer his disease
to perplex him in his profession. The physician was an inexplicable,
sly-looking, friendly-speaking, and, moreover, abstruse man, who had
gained himself quite a peculiar confidence in the pious circle. Active
and attentive, he was consoling to the sick; but, more than by all
this, he extended his practice by the gift of showing in the background
some mysterious medicines prepared by himself, of which no one could
speak, since, with us, the physicians were strictly prohibited from
making up their own prescriptions. With certain powders, which may have
been some kind of digestive, he was not so reserved; but that powerful
salt, which could only be applied in the greatest danger, was only
mentioned among believers, although no one had yet seen it or traced
its effects. To excite and strengthen our faith in the possibility
of such an universal remedy, the physician, wherever he found any
susceptibility, had recommended certain chemico-alchemical books to
his patients, and given them to understand that by one's own study of
them, one could well attain this treasure for oneself; which was the
more necessary, as the mode of its preparation, both for physical and
especially for moral reasons, could not be well communicated; nay,
that in order to comprehend, produce and use this great work, one must
know the secrets of nature in connexion, since it was not a particular
but an universal remedy, and could indeed be produced under different
forms and shapes. My friend had listened to these enticing words. The
health of the body was too nearly allied to the health of the soul;
and could a greater benefit, a greater mercy be shown towards others,
than by appropriating to oneself a remedy by which so many sufferings
could be assuaged, so many a danger averted? She had already secretly
studied Welling's _Opus mago-cabalisticum_, for which, however, as the
author himself immediately darkens and removes the light he imparts,
she was looking about for a friend who, in this alternation of glare
and gloom, might bear her company. It needed small incitement to
inoculate me also with this disease. I procured the work, which, like
all writings of this kind, could trace its pedigree in a direct line
up to the Neo-Platonic school. My chief labour in this book was most
accurately to notice the dark hints by which the author refers from one
passage to another, and thus promises to reveal what he conceals; and
to mark down on the margin the number of the page where such passages
as should explain each other were to be found. But even thus the book
still remained dark and unintelligible enough; except that one at
last studied oneself into a certain terminology, and, by using it
according to one's own fancy, believed that one was at any rate saying,
if not understanding, something. The before-mentioned work makes
very honourable mention of its predecessors, and we were incited to
investigate those original sources themselves. We turned to the works
of Theophrastus, Paracelsus and Basilius Valentinus; as well as to
those of Helmont, Starkey, and others whose doctrines and directions,
resting more or less on nature and imagination, we endeavoured to
see into and follow out. I was particularly pleased with the _Aurea
Catena Homeri_, in which nature, though perhaps in fantastical
fashion, is represented in a beautiful combination; and thus sometimes
by ourselves, sometimes together, we employed much time on these
singularities, and spent the evenings of a long winter, during which I
was compelled to keep my chamber, very agreeably, since we three, my
mother being included, were more delighted with these secrets than we
could have been at their elucidation.

[Side-note: Alchemical Turn.]

In the meantime a very severe trial was preparing for me; for a
disturbed, and one might even say, for certain moments, destroyed
digestion, excited such symptoms that, in great tribulation, I thought
I should lose my life, and none of the remedies applied would produce
any further effect. In this last extremity, my distressed mother
constrained the embarrassed physician with the greatest vehemence
to come out with his universal medicine; after a long refusal, he
hastened home at the dead of night, and returned with a little glass of
crystallized dry salt, which was dissolved in water, and swallowed by
the patient. It had a decidedly alkaline taste. The salt was scarcely
taken than my situation appeared relieved, and from that moment the
disease took a turn which, by degrees, led to my recovery. I cannot say
how far this strengthened and enhanced our faith in our physician, and
our industry to make ourselves partakers of such a treasure.

My friend, who, without parents or brothers and sisters, lived in a
large, well-situated house, had already before this begun to purchase
herself a little air-furnace, alembics and retorts of moderate size;
and, in accordance with the hints of Welling, and the significant signs
of our physician and master, operated principally on iron, in which the
most healing powers were said to be concealed, if one only knew how to
open it. And as the volatile salt which must be produced made a great
figure in all the writings with which we were acquainted, so, for these
operations, alkalies also were required, which, while they flowed away
into the air, were to unite with these super-terrestrial things, and at
last produce _per se_, a mysterious and excellent neutral salt.

Scarcely was I in some measure recovered, and, favoured by the change
in the season, able once more to occupy my old gable-chamber, than
I also began to provide myself with a little apparatus. A small
air-furnace with a sand-bath was prepared, and I very soon learned to
change the glass alembics, with a piece of burning match-cord, into
vessels in which the different mixtures were to be evaporated. Now
were the strange ingredients of the macrocosm and microcosm handled
in an odd, mysterious manner, and before all I attempted to produce
neutral salts in an unheard-of way. But what busied me most, for a long
time, was the so-called _Liquor Silicum_ (flint-juice), which is made
by melting down pure quartz-flint with a proper proportion of alkali,
whence results a transparent glass, which melts away on exposure to the
air, and exhibits a beautiful clear fluidity. Whoever has once prepared
this himself, and seen it with his own eyes, will not blame those who
believe in a maiden earth, and in the possibility of producing further
effects upon it by means of it. I had acquired a peculiar dexterity
in preparing this _Liquor Silicum_; the fine white flints which are
found in the Maine furnished a perfect material for it; and I was not
wanting in the other requisites, nor in diligence. But I became weary
at last, because I could not but remark that the flinty substance was
by no means so closely combined with the salt as I had philosophically
imagined; for it very easily separated itself again, and this most
beautiful mineral fluidity, which, to my greatest astonishment, had
sometimes appeared in the form of an animal jelly, always deposited
a powder, which I was forced to pronounce the finest flint dust, but
which gave not the least sign of anything productive in its nature,
from which one could have hoped to see this maiden earth pass into the
maternal state.

Strange and unconnected as these operations were, I yet learned many
things from them. I paid strict attention to all the crystallizations
that might occur, and became acquainted with the external forms of
many natural things, and inasmuch as I well knew that in modern times
chemical subjects were treated more methodically, I wished to get a
general conception of them, although, as a half-adept, I had very
little respect for the apothecaries and all those who operated with
common fire. However, the chemical _Compendium_ of Boerhaave attracted
me powerfully, and led me on to read several of his writings, in which
(since, moreover, my tedious illness had inclined me towards medical
subjects,) I found an inducement to study also the _Aphorisms_ of this
excellent man, which I was glad to stamp upon my mind and in my memory.

[Side-note: Character of the Letters from Leipzig.]

Another employment, somewhat more human, and by far more useful for
my cultivation at the moment, was reading through the letters which I
had written home from Leipzig. Nothing reveals more with respect to
ourselves, than when we again see before us that which has proceeded
from us years before, so that we can now consider ourselves as an
object of contemplation. Only, in truth, I was then too young, and the
epoch which was represented by those papers was still too near. As
in our younger years we do not in general easily cast off a certain
self-complacent conceit, this especially shows itself in despising what
we have been but a little time before; for while, indeed, we perceive,
as we advance from step to step, that those things which we regard as
good and excellent in ourselves and others do not stand their ground,
we think we can best extricate ourselves from this dilemma by ourselves
throwing away what we cannot preserve. So it was with me also. For as
in Leipzig I had gradually learned to set little value on my childish
labours, so now my academical course seemed to me likewise of small
account, and I did not understand that for this very reason it must
be of great value to me, as it elevated me to a higher degree of
observation and insight. My father had carefully collected and sewed
together my letters to him, as well as those to my sister; nay, he had
even corrected them with attention, and improved the mistakes both in
writing and in grammar.

What first struck me in these letters was their exterior; I was shocked
at an incredible carelessness in the handwriting, which extended
from October, 1765, to the middle of the following January. But, in
the middle of March, there appeared all at once a quite compressed,
orderly hand, such as I used formerly to employ in writing for a prize.
My astonishment at this resolved itself into gratitude towards the
good Gellert, who, as I now well remembered, whenever we handed in our
essays to him, represented to us, in his hearty tone of voice, that
it was our sacred duty to practise our hand as much, nay, more than
our style. He repeated this as often as any scrawled, careless writing
came into his sight; on which occasion he often said that he would
much like to make a good hand of his pupils the principal end in his
instructions; the more so as he had often remarked that a good hand led
the way to a good style.

I could further notice that the French and English passages in my
letters, although not free from blunders, were nevertheless written
with facility and freedom. These languages I had likewise continued
to practise in my correspondence with George Schlosser, who was still
at Treptow, and I had remained in constant communication with him, by
which I was instructed in many secular affairs (for things did not
always turn out with him quite as he had hoped), and acquired an ever
increasing confidence in his earnest, noble way of thinking.

Another consideration which could not escape me in reading through
these letters, was that my good hither, with the best intentions, had
done me a special mischief, and had led me into that odd way of life
into which I had fallen at last. He had, namely, repeatedly warned me
against card-playing; but Frau Hofrath Böhme, as long as she lived,
contrived to persuade me, after her own fashion, by declaring that
my father's warnings were only against the abuse. Now as I likewise
saw the advantages of it in society, I easily suffered myself to be
led by her. I had indeed the sense of play, but not the spirit of
play; I learned all games easily and rapidly, but I could never keep
up the proper attention for a whole evening. Therefore, when I began
very well, I invariably failed at the end, and made myself and others
lose; through which I went off, always out of humour, either to the
supper-table or out of the company. Scarcely was Madame Böhme dead,
who, moreover, had no longer kept me in practice during her tedious
illness, than my father's doctrine gained force; I at first excused
myself from the card-tables, and as they now did not know what else
to do with me, I became even more of a burden to myself than to
others, and declined the imitations, which then became more rare,
and at last ceased altogether. Play, which is much to be recommended
to young people, especially to those who have a practical sense, and
wish to look about in the world for themselves, could never, indeed,
become a passion with me; for I never got further, though I might
play as long as I would. Had any one given me a general view of the
subject, and made me observe how here certain signs and more or less
of chance form a kind of material on which judgment and activity can
exercise themselves--had any one made me see several games at once,
I might sooner have become reconciled. With all this, at the time of
which I am now speaking, I had come to the conviction, from the above
considerations, that one should not avoid social games, but should
rather strive after a certain dexterity in them. Time is infinitely
long, and each day is a vessel into which a great deal may be poured,
if one will actually fill it up.

[Side-note: Taste for Drawing Revived.]

Thus variously was I occupied in my solitude; the more so, as the
departed spirits of the different tastes to which I had from time to
time devoted myself, had an opportunity to reappear. I thus went again
to drawing; and as I always wished to labour directly from nature,
or rather from reality, I made a picture of my chamber, with its
furniture, and the persons who were in it; and when this no more amused
me, I represented all sorts of town-tales, which were told at the time,
and in which interest was taken. All this was not without character and
a certain taste, but unfortunately the figures lacked proportion and
the proper vigour, besides which the execution was extremely misty. Sly
father, who continued to take pleasure in these things, wished to have
them more distinct; everything must be finished and properly completed.
He therefore had them mounted and surrounded with ruled lines; nay, the
painter Morgenstern, his domestic artist--the same who afterwards made
himself known, and indeed famous, by his church-views--had to insert
the perspective lines of the rooms and chambers, which then, indeed,
stood in pretty harsh contrast with those cloudy-looking figures. In
this manner he thought constantly to compel me to greater accuracy,
and, to please him, I drew various objects of still life, in which,
since the originals stood as patterns before me, I could work with more
distinctness and precision. At last I took it into my head to etch
once more. I had composed a tolerably interesting landscape, and felt
myself very happy when I could look out for the old receipts given me
by Stock, and could, at my work, call to mind those pleasant times. I
soon bit the plate and had a proof taken. Unluckily the composition
was without light and shade, and I now tormented myself to bring
in both; but as it was not quite clear** to me what was really the
essential point, I could not finish. Up to this time I had been quite
well, after my own fashion; but now a disease attacked me which had
never troubled me before. My throat, namely, had become completely
sore, and particularly what is called the _uvula_ very much inflamed;
I could only swallow with great pain, and the physicians did not know
what to make of it. They tormented me with gargles and hair-pencils,
but could not free me from my misery. At last it struck me that I had
not been careful enough in the biting of my plates, and that by often
and passionately repeating it, I had contracted this disease, and had
always revived and increased it. To the physicians this cause was
plausible and very soon certain on my leaving my etching and biting,
and that so much the more readily as the attempt had by no means
turned out well, and I had more reason to conceal than to exhibit my
labours; for which I consoled myself the more easily, as I very soon
saw myself free from the troublesome disease. Upon this I could not
refrain from the reflection that my similar occupations at Leipzig
might have greatly contributed to those diseases from which I had
suffered so much. It is, indeed, a tedious, and withal a melancholy
business to take too much care of ourselves, and of what injures and
benefits us; but there is no question but that with the wonderful
idiosyncrasy of human nature on the one side, and the infinite variety
in the mode of life and pleasure on the other, it is a wonder that
the human race has not worn itself out long ago. Human nature appears
to possess a peculiar kind of toughness and many-sidedness, since it
subdues everything which approaches it, or which it takes into itself,
and if it cannot assimilate, at least makes it indifferent. In case
of any great excess, indeed, it must yield to the elements in spite
of all resistance, as the many endemic diseases and the effects of
brandy convince us. Could we, without being morbidly anxious, keep
watch over ourselves as to what operates favourably or unfavourably
upon us in our complicated civil and social life, and would we leave
off what is actually pleasant to us as an enjoyment, for the sake of
the evil consequences, we should thus know how to remove with ease many
an inconvenience which, with a constitution otherwise sound, often
troubles us more than even a disease. Unfortunately, it is in dietetics
as in morals; we cannot see into a fault till we have got rid of it; by
which nothing is gained, for the next fault is not like the preceding
one, and therefore cannot be recognised under the same form.

[Side-note: Survey of Works Written at Leipzig.]

In reading through those letters which had been written from Leipzig
to my sister, this remark, among others, could not escape me,--that
from the very beginning of my academical course, I had esteemed myself
very clever and wise, since, as soon as I had learned anything, I put
myself in the place of the professor, and so became didactic on the
spot. I was amused to see how I had immediately applied to my sister
whatever Gellert had imparted or advised in his lectures, without
seeing that both in life and in books, a thing may be proper for a
young man without being suitable for a young lady; and we both together
made merry over these mimicries. The poems also which I had composed
in Leipzig were already too poor for me; and they seemed to me cold,
dry, and in respect to that which was meant to express the state of the
human heart or mind, too superficial. This induced me, now that I was
to leave my father's house once more, and go to a second university,
again to decree a great high _auto-da-fé_ against my labours. Several
commenced plays, some of which had reached the third or the fourth act,
while others had only the plot fully made out, together with many other
poems, letters, and papers, were given over to the fire, and scarcely
anything was spared except the manuscript by Behrisch, _Die Laune des
Verliebten_ and _Die Mitschuldigen_, which last I constantly went
on improving with peculiar affection, and, as the piece was already
complete, I again worked over the plot, to make it more bustling and
intelligible. Lessing, in the first two acts of his _Minna_, had set up
an unattainable model of the way in which a drama should be developed,
and nothing was to me of greater concern than to enter thoroughly into
his mind and his views.

The recital of whatever moved, excited, and occupied me at this time,
is already circumstantial enough; but I must nevertheless again recur
to that interest with which super-sensuous things had inspired me, of
which I, once for all, so far as might be possible, undertook to form
some notion.

I experienced a great influence from an important work that fell into
my hands; it was Arnold's _History of the Church and of Heretics._
This man is not merely a reflective historian, but at the same time
pious and feeling. His sentiments chimed in very well with mine, and
what particularly delighted me in his work was, that I received a more
favourable notion of many heretics, who had been hitherto represented
to me as mad or impious. The spirit of contradiction and the love of
paradoxes stick fast in us all. I diligently studied the different
opinions, and as I had often enough heard it said that every man has
his own religion at last, so nothing seemed more natural to me than
that I should form mine too, and this I did with much satisfaction. The
Neo-Platonism lay at the foundation: the hermetical, the mystical, the
cabalistic, also contributed their share, and thus I built for myself a
world that looked strange enough.

[Side-note: Concoction of a System of Theology.]

I could well represent to myself a Godhead which has gone on producing
itself from all eternity; but as production cannot be conceived without
multiplicity, so it must of necessity have immediately appeared to
itself as a Second, which we recognise under the name of the Son;
now these two must continue the act of producing, and again appear
to themselves in a Third, which was just as substantial, living, and
eternal as the Whole. With these, however, the circle of the Godhead
was complete, and it would not have been possible for them to produce
another perfectly equal to them. But since, however, the work of
production always proceeded, they created a fourth, which already
fostered in himself a contradiction, inasmuch as it was, like them,
unlimited, and yet at the same time was to be contained in them and
bounded by them. Now this was Lucifer, to whom the whole power of
creation was committed from this time, and from whom all other beings
were to proceed. He immediately displayed his infinite activity by
creating the whole body of angels; all, again, after his own likeness,
unlimited, but contained in him and bounded by him. Surrounded by such
a glory, he forgot his higher origin, and believed that he could
find himself in himself, and from this first ingratitude sprang all
that does not seem to us in accordance with the will and purposes of
the Godhead. Now the more he concentrated himself within himself, the
more painful must it have become to him, as well as to all the spirits
whose sweet uprising to their origin he had embittered. And so that
happened which is intimated to us under the form of the Fall of the
Angels. One part of them concentrated itself with Lucifer, the other
turned itself again to its origin. From this concentration of the
whole creation, for it had proceeded out of Lucifer, and was forced
to follow him, sprang all that we perceive under the form of matter,
which we figure to ourselves as heavy, solid, and dark, but which,
since it is descended, if not even immediately, yet by filiation, from
the Divine Being, is just as unlimited, powerful, and eternal as its
sire and grandsire. Since now the whole mischief, if we may call it so,
merely arose through the one-sided direction of Lucifer, the better
half was indeed wanting to this creation; for it possessed all that
is gained by concentration, while it lacked all that can be effected
by expansion alone; and so the whole creation could have destroyed
itself by everlasting concentration, could have annihilated itself with
its father Lucifer, and have lost all its claims to an equal eternity
with the Godhead. This condition the Elohim contemplated for a time,
and they had their choice, to wait for those Æons, in which the field
would again have become clear, and space would be left them for a new
creation; or, if they would, to seize upon that which existed already,
and supply the want, according to their own eternity. Now they chose
the latter, and by their mere will supplied in an instant the whole
want which the consequence of Lucifer's undertaking drew after it. They
gave to the Eternal Being the faculty of expanding itself, of moving
itself towards them; the peculiar pulse of life was again restored,
and Lucifer himself could not avoid its effects. This is the epoch
when that appeared which we know as light, and when that began which
we are accustomed to designate by the word creation. Greatly now as
this multiplied itself by progressive degrees, through the continually
working vital power of the Elohim, still a being was wanting who might
be able to restore the original connexion with the Godhead; and thus
man was produced, who in all things was to be similar, yea, equal to
the Godhead; but thereby, in effect, found himself once more in the
situation of Lucifer, that of being at once unlimited and bounded;
and, since this contradiction was to manifest itself in him through
all the categories of existence, and a perfect consciousness, as well
as a decided will, was to accompany his various conditions, it was
to be foreseen that he must be at the same time the most perfect and
the most imperfect, the most happy and the most unhappy creature. It
was not long before he, too, completely played the part of Lucifer.
True ingratitude is the separation from the benefactor, and thus that
fall was manifest for the second time, although the whole creation
is nothing and was nothing but a falling from and returning to the
original.

One easily sees how the Redemption is not only decreed from eternity,
but is considered as eternally necessary, nay, that it must ever
renew itself through the whole time of generation[4] and existence.
In this view of the subject, nothing is more natural than for the
Divinity himself to take the form of man, which had already prepared
itself as a veil, and to share his fate for a short time, in order,
by this assimilation, to enhance his joys and alleviate his sorrows.
The history of all religions and philosophies teaches us that this
great truth, indispensable for man, has been handed down by different
nations, in different times, in various ways, and even in strange
fables and images, in accordance with their limited knowledge; enough,
if it only be acknowledged that we find ourselves in a condition
which, even if it seems to drag us down and oppress us, yet gives
us opportunity, nay, even makes it our duty, to raise ourselves up,
and to fulfil the purposes of the Godhead in this manner, that while
we are compelled on the one hand to concentrate ourselves (_uns zu
verselbsten_), we, on the other hand, do not omit to expand ourselves
(_uns zu entselbstigen_) in regular pulsation.[5]


[1] "Bildende und Redende Kunst." The expression "speaking art " is
used to produce a corresponding antithesis, though "_belles lettres_"
would be the ordinary rendering.--_Trans._

[2] "Pratische Philosophen, bewusstlose Weltweisen." It is impossible
to give two substantives, as in the original, since this is effected by
using first the word of Greek, then the word of German origin, whereas
we have but one.--_Trans._

[3] Winckelmann was assassinated---_Trans._

[4] "Das Werden," the state of becoming, as distinguished from that
of being. The word, which is most useful to the Germans, can never be
rendered properly in English.--_Trans._

[5] If we could make use of some such verbs as "inself" and "unself,"
we should more accurately render this passage.--_Trans._.




NINTH BOOK


"The heart is often affected, moreover, to the advantage of different,
but especially of social and refined virtues, and the more tender
sentiments are excited and unfolded in it. Many touches, in particular,
will impress themselves, which give the young reader an insight into
the more hidden corner of the human heart and its passions--a knowledge
which is more worth than all Latin and Greek, and of which Ovid was
a very excellent master. But yet it is not on this account that the
classic poets, and therefore Ovid, are placed in the hands of youth.
We have from the kind Creator a variety of mental powers, to which we
must not neglect giving their proper culture in our earliest years, and
which cannot be cultivated either by logic or metaphysics, Latin or
Greek. We have an imagination, before which, since it should not seize
upon the very first conceptions that chance to present themselves, we
ought to place the fittest and most beautiful images, and thus accustom
and practise the mind to recognise and love the beautiful everywhere,
and in nature itself, under its determined, true, and also in its finer
features. A great quantity of conceptions and general knowledge is
necessary to us, as well for the sciences as for daily life, which can
be learned out of no compendium. Our feelings, affections, and passions
should be advantageously developed and purified."

This significant passage, which is found in the _Universal German
Library_, was not the only one of its kind. Similar principles and
similar views manifested themselves in many directions. They made
upon us lively youths a very great impression, which had the more
decided effect, as it was strengthened besides by Wieland's example;
for the works of his second brilliant period clearly showed that he
had formed himself according to such maxims. And what more could we
desire? Philosophy, with its abstruse questions, was set aside--the
classic languages, the acquisition of which is accompanied by so much
drudgery, one saw thrust into the background--the compendiums, about
the sufficiency of which Handel had already whispered a doubtful word
into the ear, came more and more into suspicion. We were directed
to the contemplation of an active life, which we were so fond of
leading, and to the knowledge of the passions which we partly felt,
partly anticipated, in our own bosoms, and which, if though they had
been rebuked formerly, now appeared to us as something important and
dignified, because they were to be the chief object of our studies,
and the knowledge of them was extolled as the most excellent means of
cultivating our mental powers. Besides this, such a mode of thought was
quite in accordance with my own conviction, nay, with my poetical mode
of treatment. I therefore, without opposition, after I had thwarted
so many good designs, and seen so many fair hopes vanish, reconciled
myself to my father's intention of sending me to Strasburg, where I was
promised a cheerful, gay life, while I should prosecute my studies, and
at last take my degree.

In spring I felt my health, but still more my youthful spirits, again
restored, and once more longed to be out of my father's house, though
with reasons far different from those on the first time. The pretty
chambers and spots where I had suffered so much had become disagreeable
to me, and with my father himself there could be no pleasant relation.
I could not quite pardon him for having manifested more impatience
than was reasonable at the relapse of my disease, and at my tedious
recovery; nay, for having, instead of comforting me by forbearance,
frequently expressed himself in a cruel manner, about that which lay in
no man's hand, as if it depended only on the will. And he, too, was in
various ways hurt and offended by me.

For young people bring back from the university general ideas, which,
indeed, is quite right and good; but because they fancy themselves very
wise in this, they apply them as a standard to the objects that occur,
which must then, for the most part, lose by the comparison. Thus I had
gained a general notion of architecture, and of the arrangement and
decoration of houses, and imprudently, in conversation, had applied
this to our own house. My father had designed the whole arrangement
of it, and carried through the building with great perseverance, and,
considering that it was to be exclusively a residence for himself
and his family, nothing could be objected to it; in this taste, also,
very many of the houses in Frankfort were built. An open staircase
ran up through the house, and touched upon large ante-rooms, which
might very well have been chambers themselves, as, indeed, we always
passed the tine season in them. But this pleasant, cheerful existence
for a single family--this communication from above to below--became
the greatest inconvenience as soon as several parties occupied the
house, as we had but too well experienced on the occasion of the
French quartering. For that painful scene with the king's lieutenant
would not have happened, nay, my father would even have felt all those
disagreeable matters less, if, after the Leipzig fashion, our staircase
had run close along the side of the house, and a separate door had been
given to each story. This style of building I once praised highly for
its advantages, and showed my father the possibility of altering his
staircase also; whereupon he fell into an incredible passion, which was
the more violent as, a short time before, I had found fault with some
scrolled looking-glass frames, and rejected certain Chinese hangings.
A scene ensued, which, indeed, was again hushed up and smothered, but
it hastened my journey to the beautiful Alsace, which I accomplished
in the newly-contrived comfortable diligence, without delay, and in a
short time.

I alighted at the Ghost (_Geist_) tavern, and hastened at once to
satisfy my most earnest desire and to approach the minster, which
had long since been pointed out to me by fellow-travellers, and had
been before my eyes for a great distance. When I first perceived this
Colossus through the narrow lanes, and then stood too near before it,
in the truly confined little square, it made upon me an impression
quite of its own kind, which I, being unable to analyse it on the spot,
carried with me only indistinctly for this time, as I hastily ascended
the building, so as not to neglect the beautiful moment of a high and
cheerful sun, which was to disclose to me at once the broad, rich land.

[Side-note: Arrival at Strasburg.]

And now, from the platform, I saw before me the beautiful region in
which I should for a long time live and reside: the handsome city,
the wide-spreading meadows around it, thickly set and interwoven with
magnificent trees, that striking richness of vegetation which follows
in the windings of the Rhine, marks its banks, islands, and aits. Nor
is the level ground, stretching down from the south, and watered by
the Iller, less adorned with varied green. Even westward, towards the
mountains, there are many low grounds which afford quite as charming
a view of wood and meadow-growth, just as the northern and more hilly
part is intersected by innumerable little brooks, which promote a
rapid vegetation everywhere. If one imagines, between these luxuriant
outstretched meads, between these joyously scattered groves, all land
adapted for tillage, excellently prepared, verdant, and ripening,
and the best and richest spots marked by hamlets and farm-houses,
and this great and immeasurable plain, prepared for roan, like a new
paradise, bounded far and near by mountains partly cultivated, partly
overgrown with woods; one will then conceive the rapture with which I
blessed my fate, that it had destined me, for some time, so beautiful a
dwelling-place.

Such a fresh glance into a new land in which we are to abide for a
time, has still the peculiarity, both pleasant and foreboding, that the
whole lies before us like an unwritten tablet. As yet no sorrows and
joys which relate to ourselves are recorded upon it; this cheerful,
varied, animated plain is still mute for us; the eye is only fixed on
the objects so far as they are intrinsically important, and neither
affection nor passion have especially to render prominent this or that
spot. But a presentiment of the future already disquiets the young
heart, and an unsatisfied craving secretly demands that which is to
come and may come, and which, at all events, whether for good or ill,
will imperceptibly assume the character of the spot in which we find
ourselves.

Descended from the height, I still tarried awhile before the face of
the venerable pile; but what I could not quite clearly make out, either
the first or the following time, was that I regarded this miracle as a
monster, which must have terrified me, if it had not, at the same time,
appeared to me comprehensible by its regularity, and even pleasing in
its finish. Yet I by no means busied myself with meditating on this
contradiction, but suffered a monument so astonishing quietly to work
upon me by its presence.

[Side-note: Meyer.]

I took small, but well-situated and pleasant lodgings, on the summer
side of the Fish-market, a fine long street, where the everlasting
motion came to the assistance of every unoccupied moment. I then
delivered my letters of introduction, and found among my patrons a
merchant who, with his family, was devoted to those pious opinions
sufficiently known to me, although, as far as regarded external
worship, he had not separated from the Church. He was a man of
intelligence withal, and by no means hypocritical in his actions. The
company of boarders which was recommended to me, and, indeed, I to
it, was very agreeable and entertaining. A couple of old maids had
long kept up this boarding-house with regularity and good success;
there might have been about ten persons, older and younger. Of these
latter, one named MEYER, a native of Lindau, is most vividly present
to me. From his form and face he might have been considered one of the
handsomest of men, if, at the same time, he had not had something of
the sloven in his whole appearance. In like manner his splendid natural
talents were deformed by an incredible levity, and his excellent temper
by an unbounded dissoluteness. He had an open, joyous face, more round
than oval; the organs of the senses, the eyes, nose, mouth, and ears,
could be called rich; they showed a decided fulness, without being too
large. The mouth was particularly charming, from the curling lips,
and his whole physiognomy had the peculiar expression of a rake, from
the circumstance that his eyebrows met across his nose, which, in a
handsome face, always produces a pleasant expression of sensuality. By
his jovialness, sincerity, and good-nature, he made himself beloved
by all. His memory was incredible; attention at the lectures cost him
nothing; he retained all that he heard, and was intellectual enough to
take some interest in everything, and this the more easily, as he was
studying medicine. All impressions remained lively with him, and his
waggery in repeating the lectures and mimicking the professors often
went so far, that when he had heard three different lectures in one
morning, he would, at the dinner-table, interchange the professors
with each other, paragraphwise, and often even more abruptly, which
parti-coloured lecture frequently entertained us, but often, too,
became troublesome.

The rest were more or less polite, steady, serious people. A pensioned
knight of the order of St. Louis was one of these; but the majority
were students, all really good and well-disposed, only they were not
allowed to go beyond their usual allowance of wine. That this should
not be easily done was the care of our president, one Doctor SALZMANN.
Already in the sixties and unmarried, he had attended this dinner-table
for many years, and maintained its good order and respectability. He
possessed a handsome property, kept himself close and neat in his
exterior, even belonging to those who always go in shoes and stockings,
and with their hat under their arm. To put on the hat, was with him
an extraordinary action. He commonly carried an umbrella, wisely
reflecting that the finest summer-days often bring thunderstorms and
passing showers over the country.

With this man I talked over my design of continuing to study
jurisprudence at Strasburg, so as to be able to take my degree as soon
as possible. Since he was exactly informed of everything, I asked
him about the lectures I should have to hear, and what he generally
thought of the matter. To this he replied, that it was not in Strasburg
as in the German universities, where they try to educate jurists in
the large and learned sense of the term. Here, in conformity with the
relation towards France, all was really directed to the practical, and
managed in accordance with the opinions of the French, who readily
stop at what is given. They tried to impart to every one certain
general principles and preliminary knowledge, they compressed as much
as possible, and communicated only what was most necessary. Hereupon
he made me acquainted with a man, in whom, as a _Repetent_,[1] great
confidence was entertained; which he very soon managed to gain from me
also. By way of introduction, I began to speak with him on subjects
of jurisprudence, and he wondered not a little at my swaggering; for
during my residence at Leipzig, I had gained more of an insight into
the requisites for the law than I have hitherto taken occasion to state
in my narrative, though all I had acquired could only be reckoned as a
general encyclopedical survey, and not as proper definite knowledge.
University life, even if in the course of it we may not have to boast
of our own proper industry, nevertheless affords endless advantages in
every kind of cultivation, because we are always surrounded by men who
either possess or are seeking science, so that, even if unconsciously,
we are constantly drawing some nourishment from such an atmosphere.

[Side-note: Taste for Medical Studies.]

My repetent, after he had had patience with my rambling discourse for
some time, gave me at last to understand that I must first of all
keep my immediate object in view, which was, to be examined, to take
my degree, and then, perchance, to commence practice. "In order to
stand the first," said he, "the subject is by no means investigated
at large. It is inquired how and when a law arose, and what gave the
internal or external occasion for it; there is no inquiry as to how
it has been altered by time and custom, or how far it has perhaps
been perverted by false interpretation or the perverted usage of the
courts. It is in such investigations that learned men quite peculiarly
spend their lives; but we inquire after that which exists at present,
this we stamp firmly on our memory, that it may always be ready when
we wish to employ it for the use and defence of our clients. Thus we
qualify our young people for their future life, and the rest follows in
proportion to their talents and activity." Hereupon he handed me his
pamphlets, which were written in question and answer, and in which I
could have stood a pretty good examination at once, for Hopp's smaller
law-catechism was yet perfectly in my memory; the rest I supplied with
some diligence, and, against my will, qualified myself in the easiest
manner as a candidate.

But since in this way all my own activity in the study was cut
off,--for I had no sense for anything positive, but wished to have
everything explained historically, if not intelligibly--I found for my
powers a wider field, which I employed in the most singular manner by
devoting myself to a matter of interest which was accidently presented
to me from without.

Most of my fellow-boarders were medical students. These, as is well
known, are the only students who zealously converse about their
science and profession even out of the hours of study. This lies in
the nature of the case. The objects of their endeavours are the most
obvious to the senses, and at the same time the highest, the most
simple and the most complicated. Medicine employs the whole man, for
it occupies itself with the whole man. All that the young man learns
refers directly to an important, dangerous indeed, but yet in many
respects lucrative practice. He therefore devotes himself passionately
to whatever is to be known and to be done, partly because it is
interesting in itself, partly because it opens to him the joyous
prospect of independence and wealth.

At table then I heard nothing but medical conversations, just as
formerly in the boarding-house of Hofrath Ludwig. In our walks and in
our pleasure-parties likewise not much else was talked about; for my
fellow-boarders, like good fellows, had also become my companions at
other times, and they were always joined on all sides by persons of
like minds and like studies. The medical faculty in general shone above
the others, with respect both to the celebrity of the professors and
the number of the students, and I was the more easily borne along by
the stream, as I had just so much knowledge of all these things that
my desire for science could soon be increased and inflamed. At the
commencement of the second half-year, therefore, I attended a course on
chemistry by Spielmann, another on anatomy by Lobstein, and proposed
to be right industrious, because by my singular preliminary or rather
extra knowledge, I had already gained some respect and confidence in
our society.

[Side-note: Preparations for Reception of Marie Antoinette.]

Yet this dissipation and dismemberment of my studies was not enough,
they were to be once more seriously disturbed; for a remarkable
political event set everything in motion, and procured us a tolerable
succession of holidays. Marie Antoinette, Archduchess of Austria and
Queen of France, was to pass through Strasburg on her road to Paris.
The solemnities by which the people are made to take notice that there
is greatness in the world, were busily and abundantly prepared, and
especially remarkable to me was the building which stood on an island
in the Rhine between the two bridges, erected for her reception and
for surrendering her into the hands of her husband's ambassadors. It
was but slightly elevated above the ground, had in the centre a grand
saloon, on each side smaller ones; then followed other chambers, which
extended somewhat backwards. Enough, had it been more durably built,
it might have answered very well as a pleasure-house for persons
of rank. But that which particularly interested me, and for which I
did not grudge many a _büsel_ (a little silver coin then current)
in order to procure a repeated entrance from the porter, was the
embroidered tapestry with which they had lined the whole interior.
Here, for the first time, I saw a specimen of those tapestries worked
after Raffaelle's cartoons, and this sight was for me of very decided
influence, as I became acquainted with the true and the perfect on
a large scale, though only in copies. I went and came, and came
and went, and could not satiate myself with looking; nay, a vain
endeavour troubled me, because I would willingly have comprehended what
interested me in so extraordinary a manner. I found these side-chambers
highly delightful and refreshing, but the chief saloon so much the
more shocking. This had been hung with many larger, more brilliant and
richer hangings, which were surrounded with crowded ornaments, worked
after pictures by the modern French.

Now I might perhaps have reconciled myself to this style also, as my
feelings, like my judgment, did not readily reject anything entirely;
but the subject was excessively revolting to me. These pictures
contained the history of Jason, Medea, and Creusa, and therefore an
example of the most unhappy marriage. To the left of the throne was
seen the bride struggling with the most horrible death, surrounded
by persons full of sympathizing woe; to the right was the father,
horrified at the murdered babes before his feet; whilst the Fury, in
her dragon-car, drove along into the air. And that the horrible and
atrocious should not lack something absurd, the white tail of that
magic bull flourished out on the right-hand from behind the red velvet
of the gold-embroidered back of the throne, while the fire-spitting
beast himself, and the Jason who was fighting with him, were completely
covered by the sumptuous drapery.

Here all the maxims which I had made my own in Oeser's school were
stirring within my bosom. It was without proper selection and
judgment, to begin with, that Christ and the apostles were brought
into the side-halls of a nuptial building, and doubtless the size of
the chambers had guided the royal tapestry-keeper. This, however, I
willingly forgave, because it had turned out so much to my advantage;
but a blunder like that in the grand saloon put me altogether out
of my self-possession, and with animation and vehemence I called
on my comrades to witness such a crime against taste and feeling.
"What!" cried I, without regarding the bystanders, "is it permitted
so thoughtlessly to place before the eyes of a young queen, at her
first setting foot in her dominions, the representation of the most
horrible marriage that perhaps was ever consummated! Is there then
among the French architects, decorators, upholsterers, not a single
man who understands that pictures represent something, that pictures
work upon the mind and feelings, that they make impressions, that they
excite forebodings! It is just the same as if they had sent the most
ghastly spectre to meet this beauteous and pleasure-loving lady at the
very frontiers!" I know not what I said besides; enough, my comrades
tried to quiet me and to remove me out of the house, that there might
be no offence. They then assured me that it was not everybody's concern
to look for significance in pictures; that to themselves, at least,
nothing of the sort would have occurred, while the whole population of
Strasburg and the vicinity which was to throng thither, would no more
take such crotchets into their heads than the queen herself and her
court.

I yet remember well the beauteous and lofty mien, as cheerful as it was
imposing, of this youthful lady. Perfectly visible to us all in her
glass carriage, she seemed to be jesting with her female attendants,
in familiar conversation, about the throng that poured forth to meet
her train. In the evening we roamed through the streets to look at the
various illuminated buildings, but especially the glowing spire of
the minster, with which, both near and in the distance, we could not
sufficiently feast our eyes.

The queen pursued her way; the country people dispersed, and the city
was soon quiet as ever. Before the queen's arrival, the very rational
regulation had been made, that no deformed persons, no cripples nor
disgusting invalids, should show themselves on her route. People joked
about this, and I made a little French poem in which I compared the
advent of Christ, who seemed to wander upon the world particularly on
account of the sick and the lame, with the arrival of the queen, who
scared these unfortunates away. My friends let it pass; a Frenchman, on
the contrary, who lived with us, criticised the language and metre very
unmercifully, although, as it seemed, with too much foundation, and I
do not remember that I ever made a French poem afterwards.

[Side-note: Dreadful Accident at Paris.]

Scarcely had the news of the queen's happy arrival rung from the
capital, than it was followed by the horrible intelligence that, owing
to an oversight of the police during the festal fireworks, an infinite
number of persons, with horses and carriages, had been destroyed in
a street obstructed by building materials, and that the city, in the
midst of the nuptial solemnities, had been plunged into mourning and
sorrow. They attempted to conceal the extent of the misfortune, both
from the young royal pair and from the world, by burying the dead in
secret, so that many families were convinced only by the ceaseless
absence of their members that they, too, had been swept off by this
awful event. That, on this occasion, those ghastly figures in the grand
saloon again came vividly before my mind, I need scarcely mention; for
every one knows how powerful certain moral impressions are, when they
embody themselves, as it were, in those of the senses.

This occurrence was, however, destined moreover to place my friends in
anxiety and trouble by means of a prank in which I indulged. Among us
young people who had been at Leipzig, there had been maintained ever
afterwards a certain itch for imposing on and in some way mystifying
one another. With this wanton love of mischief I wrote to a friend in
Frankfort (he was the one who had amplified my poem on the cake-baker
Hendel, applied it to _Medon_, and caused its general circulation),
a letter dated from Versailles, in which I informed him of my happy
arrival there, my participation in the solemnities, and other things
of the kind, but at the same time enjoined the strictest secrecy. I
must here remark that, from the time of that trick which had caused us
so much annoyance, our little Leipzig society had accustomed itself
to persecute him from time to time with mystifications, and this
especially as he was the drollest man in the world, and was never
more amiable than when he was discovering the cheat into which he had
deliberately been led. Shortly after I had written this letter, I went
on a little journey and remained absent about a fortnight. Meanwhile
the news of that disaster had reached Frankfort; my friend believed me
in Paris, and his affection led him to apprehend that I might have been
involved in the calamity. He inquired of my parents and other persons
to whom I was accustomed to write, whether any letters had arrived,
and as it was just at the time when my journey kept me from sending
any, they were altogether wanting. He went about in the greatest
uneasiness, and at last told the matter in confidence to our nearest
friends, who were now in equal anxiety. Fortunately this conjecture did
not reach my parents until a letter had arrived, announcing my return
to Strasburg. My young friends were satisfied to learn that I was
alive, but remained firmly convinced that I had been at Paris in the
interim. The affectionate intelligence of the solicitude they had felt
on my account affected me so much that I vowed to leave off such tricks
for ever, but, unfortunately, I have often since allowed myself to be
guilty of something similar. Real life frequently loses its brilliancy
to such a degree, that one is many a time forced to polish it up again
with the varnish of fiction.

This mighty stream of courtly magnificence had now flowed by, and had
left in me no other longing than after those tapestries of Raffaelle,
which I would willingly have gazed at, revered, nay, adored, every day
and every hour. Fortunately, my passionate endeavours succeeded in
interesting several persons of consequence in them, so that they were
taken down and packed up as late as possible. We now gave ourselves up
again to our quiet, easy routine of the university and society, and
in the latter the Actuary Salzmann, president of our table, continued
to be the general pedagogue. His intelligence, complaisance, and
dignity, which he always contrived to maintain amid all the jests, and
often even in the little extravagances which he allowed us, made him
beloved and respected by the whole company, and I could mention but few
instances where he showed his serious displeasure, or interposed with
authority in little quarrels and disputes. Yet among them all I was
the one who most attached myself to him, and he was not less inclined
to converse with me, as he found me more variously accomplished than
the others, and not so one-sided in judgment. I also followed his
directions in external matters, so that he could, without hesitation,
publicly acknowledge me as his companion and comrade: for although
he only filled an office which seems to be of little influence, he
administered it in a manner which redounded to his highest honour.
He was actuary to the Court of Wards (_Pupillen-Collegium_), and
there, indeed, like the perpetual secretary of an university, he had,
properly speaking, the management of affairs in his own hands. Now
as he had conducted this business with the greatest exactness for
many years, there was no family, from the first to the last, which
did not owe him its gratitude; as indeed scarcely any one in the
whole administration of government can earn more blessings or more
curses than one who takes charge of the orphans, or, on the contrary,
squanders or suffers to be squandered their property and goods.

[Side-note: Strasburg Manners.]

The Strasburgers are passionate walkers, and they have a good
right to be so. Let one turn one's steps as one will, one finds
pleasure-grounds, partly natural, partly adorned by art in ancient and
modern times, all of them visited and enjoyed by a cheerful, merry
little people. But what made the sight of a great number of pedestrians
still more agreeable here than in other places, was the various costume
of the fair sex. The middle class of city girls yet retained the hair
twisted up and secured by a large pin; as well as a certain close style
of dress, in which anything like a train would have been unbecoming;
and the pleasant part of it was, that this costume did not differ
violently according to the rank of the wearer; for there were still
some families of opulence and distinction, who would not permit their
daughters to deviate from this costume. The rest followed the French
fashion, and this party made some proselytes every year. Salzmann
had many acquaintances and an entrance everywhere; a very pleasant
circumstance for his companion, especially in summer, for good company
and refreshment were found in all the public gardens far and near, and
more than one invitation for this or that pleasant day was received.
On one such occasion I found an opportunity to recommend myself very
rapidly to a family which I was visiting for only the second time.
We were invited, and arrived at the appointed hour. The company was
not large; some played and some walked as usual. Afterwards, when
they were to go to supper, I saw our hostess and her sister speaking
to each other with animation, and as if in a peculiar embarrassment.
I accosted them and said: "I have indeed no right, ladies, to force
myself into your secrets; but perhaps I may be able to give you good
council, or even to serve you." Upon this they disclosed to me their
painful dilemma: namely, that they had invited twelve persons to
table, and that just at that moment a relation had returned from a
journey, who now, as the thirteenth, would be a fatal _memento mori_,
if not for himself, yet certainly for some of the guests. "The case
is very easily mended," replied I; "permit me to take my leave, and
stipulate for indemnification." As they were persons of consequence and
good-breeding, they would by no means allow this, but sent about in the
neighbourhood to find a fourteenth. I suffered them to do so, yet when
I saw the servant coming in at the garden-gate without having effected
his errand, I stole away and spent my evening pleasantly under the old
linden-trees of the Wanzenau. That this self-denial was richly repaid
me was a very natural consequence.

A certain kind of general society is not to be thought of without
card-playing. Salzmann renewed the good instructions of Madame Böhme,
and I was the more docile as I had really seen that by this little
sacrifice, if it be one, one may procure oneself much pleasure, and
even a greater freedom in society than one would otherwise enjoy. The
old piquet, which had gone to sleep, was again looked out; I learned
whist; I made myself, according to the directions of my Mentor, a
card-purse, which was to remain untouched under all circumstances; and
I now found opportunity to spend most of my evenings with my friend in
the best circles, where, for the most part, they wished me well, and
pardoned many a little irregularity, to which, nevertheless, my friend,
though kindly enough, used to call my attention.

But that I might experience symbolically how much one, even in
externals, has to adapt oneself to society, and direct oneself
according to it, I was compelled to something which seemed to me the
most disagreeable thing in the world. I had really very fine hair, but
my Strasburg hair-dresser at once assured me that it was cut much too
short behind, and that it would be impossible to make a _frizure_ of
it in which I could show myself, since nothing but a few short curls
in front were decreed lawful, and all the rest, from the crown, must
be tied up in a queue or a hair-bag. Nothing was left but to put up
with false hair till the natural growth was again restored according
to the demands of the time. He promised me that nobody should ever
remark this innocent cheat (against which I objected at first very
earnestly), if I could resolve upon it immediately. He kept his word,
and I was always looked upon as the young man who had the best and the
best-dressed head of hair. But as I was obliged to remain thus propped
up and powdered from early in the morning, and at the same time to take
care not to betray my false ornament by heating myself or by violent
motions, this restraint in fact contributed much to my behaving for a
time more quietly and politely, and accustomed me to going with my hat
under my arm, and consequently in shoes and stockings also; however I
did not venture to neglect wearing understockings of fine leather, as
a defence against the Rhine gnats, which, on the fine summer evenings,
generally spread themselves over the meadows and gardens. If now, under
these circumstances, a violent bodily motion was denied me, our social
conversations certainly became more and more animated and impassioned;
indeed they were the most interesting in which I had hitherto ever
borne part.

[Side-note: Jung-Stilling]

With my way of feeling and thinking, it cost me nothing to let
every one pass for what he was, nay, for that which he wished to
pass for, and thus the frankness of a fresh youthful heart, which
manifested itself almost for the first time in its full bloom, made
me many friends and adherents. Our company of boarders increased to
about twenty persons, and as Salzmann kept up his accustomed order,
everything continued in its old routine; nay, the conversation was
almost more decorous, as every one had to be on his guard before
several. Among the new comers, was a man who particularly interested
me; his name was JUNG, the same who afterwards became known under
the name of STILLING. In spite of an antiquated dress, his form had
something delicate about it, with a certain sturdiness. A bag-wig did
not disfigure his significant and pleasing countenance. His voice
was mild, without being soft and weak; it became even melodious and
powerful as soon as his ardour was roused, which was very easily
done. On learning to know him better, one found in him a sound
common-sense, which rested on feeling, and therefore took its tone
from the affections and passions, and from this very feeling sprang
an enthusiasm for the good, the true, and the just, in the greatest
possible purity. For the course of this man's life had been very
simple, and yet crowded with events and with manifold activity. The
element of his energy was an indestructible faith in God, and in an
assistance flowing immediately from him, which evidently manifested
itself in an uninterrupted providence, and in an unfailing deliverance
out of all troubles and from every evil. Jung had made many such
experiences in his life, and they had often been repeated of late in
Strasburg, so that, with the greatest cheerfulness, he led a life
frugal indeed, but free from care; and devoted himself most earnestly
to his studies, although he could not reckon upon any certain
subsistence from one quarter to another. In his youth, when on a fair
way to become a charcoal burner, he took up the trade of a tailor,
and after he had instructed himself, at the same time, in higher
matters, his knowledge-loving mind drove him to the occupation of
schoolmaster. This attempt failed, and he returned to his trade, from
which, however, since every one felt for him confidence and affection,
he was repeatedly called away, again to take a place as private tutor.
But for his most internal and peculiar training he had to thank that
wide-spread class of men who sought out their salvation on their
own responsibility, and who, while they strove to edify themselves
by reading the Scriptures and good books, and by mutual exhortation
and confession, thereby attained a degree of cultivation which must
excite surprise. For while the interest which always accompanied
them and which maintained them in fellowship, rested on the simplest
foundation of morality, well-wishing and well-doing, the deviations
which could take place with men of such limited circumstances were of
little importance, and hence their consciences, for the most part,
remained clear, and their minds commonly cheerful; so there arose no
artificial, but a truly natural culture, which yet had this advantage
over others, that it was suitable to all ages and ranks, and was
generally social by its nature. For this reason, too, these persons
were, in their own circle, truly eloquent, and capable of expressing
themselves appropriately and pleasingly on all the tenderest and best
concerns of the heart. Now the good Jung was in this very case. Among
a few persons, who, if not exactly like-minded with himself, did not
declare themselves averse from his mode of thought, he was found not
only talkative but eloquent; in particular, he related the history of
his life in the most delightful manner, and knew how to make all the
circumstances plainly and vividly present to his listeners. I persuaded
him to write them down, and he promised he would do so. But because
in his way of expressing himself he was like a somnambulist, whom one
dare not call, lest he** should fall from his elevation, or like a
gentle stream, to which one dare oppose nothing, lest it should foam,
so was often constrained to feel uncomfortable in a more numerous
company. His faith tolerated no doubt, and his conviction no jest. And
if in friendly communication he was inexhaustible, everything came to
a standstill with him when he suffered contradiction. I usually helped
him through on such occasions, for which he repaid me with honest
affection. Since his mode of thought was nothing strange to me, but
on the contrary I had already become accurately acquainted with it in
my very best friends of both sexes, and since, moreover, it generally
interested me with its naturalness and _naïveté_, he found himself on
the very best terms with me. The bent of his intellect was pleasing
to me, and his faith in miracles, which was so useful to him, I left
unmolested. Salzmann likewise behaved towards him with forbearance,--I
say with forbearance, for Salzmann, in conformity with his character,
his natural disposition, his age and circumstances, could not but stand
and continue on the side of the rational, or rather the common-sense
Christians, whose religion properly rested on the rectitude of their
characters, and a manly independence, and who therefore did not like
to meddle or have anything to do with feelings which might easily have
led them into gloom, or with mysticism, which might easily have led
them into the dark. This class, too, was respectable and numerous; all
men of honour and capacity understood each other, and were of the like
persuasion, as well as of the same mode of life.

[Side-note: Lerse.]

LERSE, likewise our fellow-boarder, also belonged to this number; a
perfectly upright young man, and, with limited gifts of fortune, frugal
and exact. His manner of life and housekeeping was the closest I ever
knew among students. He dressed himself the neatest of us all, and
yet always appeared in the same clothes; but he managed his wardrobe
with the greatest care, kept everything about him clean, and required
all things in ordinary life to go according to his example. He never
happened to lean anywhere, or to prop his elbow on the table; he never
forgot to mark his table-napkin, and it always went ill with the maid
when the chairs were not found perfectly clean. With all this, he had
nothing Stiff in his exterior. He spoke cordially, with precise and
dry liveliness, in which a light ironical joke was very becoming. In
figure, he was well-built, slender, and of fair height, his face was
pock-pitted and homely, his little blue eyes cheerful and penetrating.
As he had cause to tutor us in so many respects, we let him be our
fencing-master besides; for he drew a very fine rapier, and it seemed
to give him sport to play off upon us, on this occasion, all the
pedantry of this profession. Moreover, we really profited by him, and
had to thank him for many sociable hours, which he induced us to spend
in good exercise and practice.

By all these peculiarities, Lerse completely qualified himself for the
office of arbitrator and umpire in all the small and great quarrels
which happened, though but rarely, in our circle, and which Salzmann
could not hush up in his fatherly way. Without the external forms,
which do so much mischief in universities, we represented a society
bound together by circumstances and good-feeling, which others might
occasionally touch, but into which they could not intrude. Now, in
his judgment of internal piques, Lerse always showed the greatest
impartiality, and when the affair could no longer be settled by words
and explanations, he knew how to conduct the desired satisfaction, in
an honourable way, to a harmless issue. In this no man was more clever
than he; indeed, he often used to say, that since heaven had destined
him for a hero neither in war nor in love, he would be content, both
in romances and fighting, with the part of second. Since he remained
the same throughout, and might be regarded as a true model of a good
and steady disposition, the conception of him stamped itself as deeply
as amiably upon me; and when I wrote _Götz von Berlichingen_, I felt
myself induced to set up a memorial of our friendship, and to give the
gallant fellow, who knew how to subordinate himself in so dignified a
manner, the name of Franz Lerse.

[Side-note: Subjugation of Natural Antipathies.]

While now, by his constant humorous dryness, he continued always to
remind us of what one owed to oneself and to others, and how one ought
to behave in order to live at peace with men as long as possible,
and thus gain a certain position towards them, I had to fight, both
inwardly and outwardly, with quite different circumstances and
adversaries, being at strife with myself, with the objects around me,
and even with the elements. I found myself in a state of health which
furthered me sufficiently in all that I would and should undertake;
only there was a certain irritability left behind, which did not
always let me be in equilibrium. A loud sound was disagreeable to
me, diseased objects awakened in me loathing and horror. But I was
especially troubled by a giddiness which came over me every time that
I looked down from a height. All these infirmities I tried to remedy,
and, indeed, as I wished to lose no time, in a somewhat violent way. In
the evening, when they beat the tattoo, I went near the multitude of
drums, the powerful rolling and beating of which might have made one's
heart burst in one's bosom. All alone I ascended the highest pinnacle
of the minster spire, and sat in what is called the neck, under the nob
or crown, for a quarter of an hour, before I would venture to step out
again into the open air, where, standing upon a platform scarce an ell
square, without any particular holding, one sees the boundless prospect
before, while the nearest objects and ornaments conceal the church,
and everything upon and above which one stands. It is exactly as if
one saw oneself carried up into the air in a balloon. Such troublesome
and painful sensations I repeated until the impression became quite
indifferent to me, and I have since then derived great advantage from
this training, in mountain travels and geological studies, and on great
buildings, where I have vied with the carpenters in running over the
bare beams and the cornices of the edifice, and even in Rome, where
one must run similar risks to obtain a nearer view of important works
of art. Anatomy, also, was of double value to me, as it taught me to
tolerate the most repulsive sights, while I satisfied my thirst for
knowledge. And thus I attended, also, the clinical course of the elder
Doctor Ehrmann, as well as the lectures of his son on obstetrics,
with the double view of becoming acquainted with all conditions, and
of freeing myself from all apprehension as to repulsive things. And I
have actually succeeded so far, that nothing of this kind could ever
put me out of my self-possession. But I sought to steel myself not
only against these impressions on the senses, but also against the
infections of the imagination. The awful and shuddering impressions of
the darkness in churchyards, solitary places, churches and chapels by
night, and whatever may be connected with them, I contrived to render
likewise indifferent; and in this, also, I went so far that day and
night, and every locality, were quite the same to me; so that even
when, in later times, a desire came over me once more to feel in such
scenes the pleasing shudder of youth, I could scarcely force this, in
any degree, by the strangest and most fearful images which I called up.

In my efforts to free myself from the pressure of the too-gloomy and
powerful, which continued to rule within me, and seemed to me sometimes
as strength, sometimes as weakness, I was thoroughly assisted by
that open, social, stirring manner of life, which attracted me more
and more, to which I accustomed myself, and which I at last learned
to enjoy with perfect freedom. It is not difficult to remark in the
world, that man feels himself most freely and most perfectly rid
of his own failings, when he represents to himself the faults of
others, and expatiates upon them with complacent censoriousness. It
is a tolerably pleasant sensation even to set ourselves above our
equals by disapprobation and misrepresentation, for which reason good
society, whether it consists of few or many, is most delighted with
it. But nothing equals the comfortable self-complacency, when we erect
ourselves into judges of our superiors, and of those who are set over
us,--of princes and statesmen, when we find public institutions unfit
and injudicious, only consider the possible and actual obstacles, and
recognise neither the greatness of the invention, nor the co-operation
which is to be expected from time and circumstances in every
undertaking.

Whoever remembers the condition of the French kingdom, and is
accurately and circumstantially acquainted with it from later writings,
will easily figure to himself how, at that time, in the Alsatian
semi-France, people used to talk about the king and his ministers,
about the court and court-favourites. These were new subjects for my
love of instructing myself, and very welcome ones to my pertness and
youthful conceit. I observed everything accurately, noted it down
industriously, and I now see, from the little that is left, that such
accounts, although only put together on the moment, out of fables and
uncertain general rumours, always have a certain value in after-times,
because they serve to confront and compare the secret made known
at last with what was then already discovered and public, and the
judgments of contemporaries, true or false, with the convictions of
posterity.

Striking, and daily before the eyes of us street-loungers, was the
project for beautifying the city; the execution of which, according
to draughts and plans, began in the strangest fashion to pass from
sketches and plans into reality. Intendant Gayot had undertaken to
new-model the angular and uneven lanes of Strasburg, and to lay the
foundations of a respectable, handsome city, regulated by line and
level. Upon this, Blondel, a Parisian architect, drew a plan, by which
an hundred and forty householders gained in room, eighty lost, and the
rest remained in their former condition. This plan accepted, but not
to be put into execution at once, now, should in course of time have
been approaching completion, and, meanwhile, the city oddly enough
wavered between form and formlessness. If, for instance, a crooked side
of a street was to be straightened, the first man who felt disposed
to build moved forward to the appointed line perhaps, too, his next
neighbour; but perhaps, also, the third or fourth resident from him,
by which projections the most awkward recesses were left, like** front
court-yards, before the houses in the background. They would not use
force, yet without compulsion they would never have got on; on which
account no man, when his house was once condemned, ventured to improve
or replace anything that related to the street. All these strange
accidental inconveniences gave to us rambling idlers the most welcome
opportunity of practising our ridicule, of making proposals, in the
manner of Behrisch, for accelerating the completion, and of constantly
doubting the possibility of it, although many a newly-erected handsome,
building should have brought us to other thoughts. How far that project
was advanced by the length of time, I cannot say.

[Side-note: Expulsion of the Jesuits.]

Another subject on which the Protestant Strasburgers liked to converse
was the expulsion of the Jesuits. These fathers, as soon as the city
had fallen to the share of the French, had made their appearance and
sought a _domicilium._ But they soon extended themselves and built a
magnificent college, which bordered so closely on the minster that the
back of the church covered a third part of its front. It was to be a
complete quadrangle, and have a garden in the middle; three sides of
it were finished. It is of stone, and solid, like all the buildings of
these fathers. That the Protestants were pushed hard, if not oppressed
by them, lay in the plan of the society which made it a duty to restore
the old religion in its whole compass. Their fall, therefore, awakened
the greatest satisfaction in the opposite party, and people saw,
not without pleasure, how they sold their wines, carried away their
books, and the building was assigned to another, perhaps less active
order. How glad are men when they get rid of an opponent, or only of a
guardian; and the herd does not reflect that where there is no dog, it
is exposed to wolves.

Now, since every city must have its tragedy, at which children and
children's children shudder, so in Strasburg frequent mention was made
of the unfortunate Prætor Klingling, who, after he had mounted the
highest step of earthly felicity, ruled city and country with almost
absolute power, and enjoyed all that wealth, rank, and influence could
afford, had at last lost the favour of the court, and was dragged up to
answer for all in which he had been indulged hitherto; nay, was even
thrown into prison, where, more than seventy years old, he died an
ambiguous death.

[Side-note: The Knight of St. Louis.]

This and other tales, that knight of St. Louis, our fellow-boarder,
knew how to tell with passion and animation, for which reason I was
fond of accompanying him in his walks, unlike the others, who avoided
such invitations, and left me alone with him. As with new acquaintances
I generally suffered myself to go on for a long time without thinking
much about them or the effect which they were exercising upon me,
so I only remarked gradually that his stories and opinions rather
unsettled and confused, than instructed and enlightened me. I never
knew what to make of him, although the riddle might easily have been
solved. He belonged to the many to whom life offers no results, and
who therefore, from first to last, exert themselves on individual
objects. Unfortunately he had, with this, a decided desire, nay, even
passion for meditating, without having any capacity for thinking; and
in such men a particular notion easily fixes itself fast, which may
be regarded as a mental disease. To such a fixed view he always came
back again, and was thus in the long-run excessively tiresome. He used
bitterly to complain of the decline of his memory, especially with
regard to the latest events, and maintained by a logic of his own, that
all virtue springs from a good memory, and all vice, on the contrary,
from forgetfulness. This doctrine he contrived to carry out with much
acuteness; as, indeed, everything can be maintained when one permits
oneself to use words altogether vaguely, and to employ and apply them
in a sense now wider, now narrower, now closer, now more remote.

At first it was amusing to hear him; nay, his persuasiveness even
astonished us. We fancied we were standing before a rhetorical sophist,
who for jest and practice knew how to give a fair appearance to the
strangest things. Unfortunately this first impression blunted itself
but too soon; for at the end of every discourse, manage the thing as
I would, the man came back again to the same theme. He was not to be
held fast to older events, although they interested him,---although he
had them present to his mind with their minutest circumstances. Indeed
he was often, by a small circumstance, snatched out of the middle of
a wild historical narrative, and thrust into his detestable favourite
thought.

One of our afternoon walks was particularly unfortunate in this
respect; the account of it may stand here instead of similar cases,
which might weary, if not vex the reader.

On the way through the city we were met by an old female mendicant, who
by her beggings and importunities disturbed him in his story. "Pack
yourself off, old witch!" said he, and walked by. She shouted after
him the well-known retort, only somewhat changed, since she saw well
that the unfriendly man was old himself,--"If you did not wish to be
old, you should have had yourself hanged in your youth!" He turned
round violently, and I feared a scene. "Hanged!" cried he, "have myself
hanged! No, that could not have been; I was too honest a fellow for
that; but hang myself--hang up my own self--that is true--that I should
have done; I should have turned a charge of powder against myself, that
I might not live to see that I am not even worth that any more." The
woman stood as if petrified; but he continued, "You have said a great
truth, witch-mother! and as they have neither drowned nor burned you
yet, you shall be paid for your proverb." He handed her a _büsel_, a
coin not usually given to a beggar.

We had crossed over the first Rhine-bridge, and were going to the
inn where we meant to stop, and I was trying to lead him back to our
previous conversation, when, unexpectedly, a very pretty girl met us
on the pleasant foot-path, remained standing before us, bowed prettily
and cried: "Eh, eh! captain, where are you going?" and whatever else
is usually said on such an occasion. "Mademoiselle," replied he,
somewhat embarrassed, "I know not----" "How?" said she, with graceful
astonishment, "do you forget your friends so soon?" The word "forget"
fretted him; he shook his head and replied, peevishly enough, "Truly,
mademoiselle, I did not know----!" She now retorted with some humour,
yet very temperately: "Take care, captain, I may mistake you another
time!" And so she hurried past, taking huge strides, without looking
round. At once my fellow-traveller struck his forehead with both his
fists: "O what an ass I am!" exclaimed he, "what an old ass I am!
Now, you see whether I am right or not." And then, in a very violent
manner, he went on with his usual sayings and opinions, in which this
case still more confirmed him. I cannot and would not repeat what a
philippic discourse he held against himself. At last he turned to me
and said: "I call you to witness! You remember that small-ware woman at
the corner, who is neither young nor pretty? I salute her every time we
pass, and often exchange a couple of friendly words with her; and yet
it is thirty years ago since she was gracious to me. But now I swear it
is not four weeks since this young lady showed herself more complaisant
to me than was reasonable, and yet I will not recognise her, but insult
her in return for her favours! Do I not always say that ingratitude is
the greatest of vices, and no man would be ungrateful if he were not
forgetful!"

"We went into the inn, and nothing but the tippling, swarming crowd
in the ante-rooms stopped the invectives which he rattled off against
himself and his contemporaries. He was silent, and I hoped pacified,
when we stepped into an upper chamber, where we found a young man
pacing up and down alone, whom the captain saluted by name. I was
pleased to become acquainted with him; for the old fellow had said much
good of him to me, and had told me that this young man, being employed
in the war-bureau, had often disinterestedly done him very good service
when the pensions were stopped. I was glad that the conversation took
a general turn, and while we were carrying it on we drank a bottle of
wine. But here, unluckily, another infirmity which my knight had in
common with obstinate men, developed itself. For as, on the whole,
he could not get rid of that fixed notion, so did he stick fast to a
disagreeable impression of the moment, and suffer his feelings to run
on without moderation. His last vexation about himself had not yet died
away, and now was added something new, although of quite a different
kind. He had not long cast his eyes here and there before he noticed on
the table a double portion of coffee and two cups, and might besides,
being a man of gallantry, have traced some other indication that the
young man had not been so solitary all the time. And scarcely had the
conjecture arisen in his mind, and ripened into a probability, that
the pretty girl had been paying a visit here, than the most outrageous
jealousy added itself to that first vexation, so as completely to
perplex him.

[Side-note: The Knight of St. Louis.]

Now before I could suspect anything, for I had hitherto been conversing
quite harmlessly with the young man, the captain, in an unpleasant
tone, which I well knew, began to be satirical about the pair of cups,
and about this and that. The young man, surprised, tried to turn it off
pleasantly and sensibly, as is the custom among men of good-breeding;
but the old fellow continued to be unmercifully rude, so that there was
nothing left for the other to do but to seize his hat and cane, and at
his departure to leave behind him a pretty unequivocal challenge. The
fury of the captain now burst out the more vehemently, as he had in the
interim drunk another bottle of wine almost by himself. He struck the
table with his fist, and cried more than once: "I strike him dead!"
It was not, however, meant quite so badly as it sounded, for he often
used this phrase when any one opposed or otherwise displeased him. Just
as unexpectedly the business grew worse on our return: for I had the
want of foresight to represent to him his ingratitude towards the young
man, and to remind him how strongly he had praised to me the ready
obligingness of this official person. No! such rage of a man against
himself I never saw again; it was the most passionate conclusion to
that beginning to which the pretty girl had given occasion. Here I
saw sorrow and repentance carried into caricature, and as all passion
supplies the place of genius, to a point really genius-like. He then
went over all the incidents of our afternoon ramble again, employed
them rhetorically for his own self-reproach, brought up the old witch
at last before him once more, and perplexed himself to such a degree,
that I could not help fearing** he would throw himself into the Rhine.
Could I have been sure of fishing him out again quickly, like Mentor
his Telemachus, he might have made the leap, and I should have brought
him home cooled down for this occasion.

I immediately confided the affair to Lerse, and we went the next
morning to the young man, whom my friend in his dry way set laughing.
We agreed to bring about an accidental meeting, where a reconciliation
should take place of itself. The drollest thing about it was, that this
time the captain too had slept off his rudeness, and found himself
ready to apologize to the young man, to whom petty quarrels were of
some consequence. All was arranged in one morning, and, as the affair
had not been kept quite secret, I did not escape the jokes of my
friends, who might have foretold me, from their own experience, how
troublesome the friendship of the captain could become upon occasion.

But now, while I am thinking what should be imparted next, there
comes again into my thoughts, by a strange play of memory, that
reverend minster-building, to which in those days I devoted particular
attention, and which, in general, constantly presents itself to the eye
both in the city and in the country.

The more I considered the _façade_, the more was that first impression
strengthened and developed, that here the sublime has entered into
alliance with the pleasing. If the vast, when it appears as a mass
before us, is not to terrify; if it is not to confuse, when we seek to
investigate its details, it must enter into an unnatural, apparently
impossible connexion, it must associate to itself the pleasing. But
now, since it will be impossible for us to speak of the impression of
the minster except by considering both these incompatible qualities as
united, so do we already see, from this, in what high value we must
hold this ancient monument, and we begin in earnest to describe how
such contradictory elements could peaceably interpenetrate and unite
themselves.

[Side-note: Strasburg Minster.]

First of all, without thinking of the towers, we devote our
considerations to the _façade_ alone, which powerfully strikes the eye
as an upright, oblong parallelogram. If we approach it at twilight,
in the moonshine, on a starlight night, when the parts appear more or
less indistinct and at last disappear, we see only a colossal wall,
the height of which bears an advantageous proportion to the breadth. If
we gaze on it by day, and by the power of the mind abstract from the
details, we recognise the front of a building which not only incloses
the space within, but also covers much in its vicinity. The openings
of this monstrous surface point to internal necessities, and according
to these we can at once divide it into nine compartments. The great
middle door, which opens into the nave of the church, first meets
the eye. On both sides of it lie two smaller ones, belonging to the
cross-ways. Over the chief door our glance falls upon the wheel-shaped
window, which is to spread an awe-inspiring light within the church
and its vaulted arches. At its sides appear two large, perpendicular,
oblong openings, which form a striking contrast with the middle one,
and indicate that they belong to the base of the rising towers. In
the third story are three openings in a row, which are designed for
belfries and other church necessities. Above them one sees the whole
horizontally closed by the balustrade of the gallery, instead of a
cornice. These nine spaces described, are supported, enclosed, and
separated into three great perpendicular divisions by four pillars
rising up from the ground.

Now as one cannot deny to the whole mass a fine proportion of height
to breadth, so also in the details it maintains a somewhat uniform
lightness by means of these pillars and the narrow compartments between
them.

But if we keep to our abstraction, and imagine to ourselves this
immense wall without ornaments, with firm buttresses, with the
necessary openings in it, but only so far as necessity requires
them, we even then must allow that these chief divisions are in good
proportion: thus the whole will appear solemn and noble indeed, but
always heavily unpleasant, and, being without ornament, unartistical.
For a work of art, the whole of which is conceived in great, simple,
harmonious parts, makes indeed a noble and dignified impression, but
the peculiar enjoyment which the pleasing produces can only find place
in the consonance of all developed details.

And it is precisely here that the building which we are examining
satisfies us in the highest degree: for we see all the ornaments fully
suited to every part which they adorn; they are subordinate to it, they
seem to have grown out of it. Such a manifoldness always gives great
pleasure, since it flows of its own accord from the suitable, and
therefore at the same time awakens the feeling of unity. It is only in
such cases that the execution is prized as the summit of art.

By such means, now, was a solid piece of masonry, an impenetrable wall,
which had moreover to announce itself as the base of two heaven-high
towers, made to appear to the eye as if resting on itself, consisting
in itself, but at the same time light and adorned, and, though pierced
through in a thousand places, to give the idea of indestructible
firmness.

This riddle is solved in the happiest manner. The openings in the wall,
its solid parts, the pillars, everything has its peculiar character,
which proceeds from its particular destination; this communicates
itself by degrees to the subdivisions; hence everything is adorned
in proportionate taste, the great as well as the small is in the
right place, and can be easily comprehended, and thus the pleasing
presents itself in the vast. I would refer only to the doors sinking in
perspective into the thickness of the wall, and adorned without end in
their columns and pointed arches; to the window with its rose springing
out of the round form, to the outline of its frame-work, as well as
to the slender reedlike pillars of the perpendicular compartments.
Let one represent to himself the pillars retreating step by step,
accompanied by little, slender, light-pillared, pointed structures,
likewise striving upwards, and furnished with canopies to shelter the
images of the saints, and how at last every rib, every boss, seems
like a flower-head and row of leaves, or some other natural object
transformed into stone. One may compare, if not the building itself,
yet representations of the whole and of its parts, for the purpose of
reviewing and giving life to what I have said. It may seem exaggerated
to many, for I myself, though transported into love for this work at
first sight, required a long time to make myself intimately acquainted
with its value.

Having grown up among those who found fault with Gothic architecture,
I cherished my aversion from the abundantly overloaded,complicated
ornaments which, by their capriciousness, made a religious, gloomy
character highly adverse. I strengthened myself in this repugnance,
since I had only met with spiritless works of this kind, in which
one could perceive neither good proportions nor a pure consistency.
But here I thought I saw a new revelation of it, since what was
objectionable by no means appeared, but the contrary opinion rather
forced itself upon my mind.

[Side-note: Strasburg Minster.]

But the longer I looked and considered, I all the while thought
I discovered yet greater merits beyond that which I have already
mentioned. The right proportion of the larger divisions, the
ornamental, as judicious as rich, even to the minutest, were found
out; but now I recognised the connexion of these manifold ornaments
amongst each other, the transition from one leading part to another,
the enclosing of details, homogeneous indeed, but yet greatly varying
in form, from the saint to the monster, from the leaf to the dental.
The more I investigated, the more I was astonished; the more I amused
and wearied myself with measuring and drawing, so much the more did my
attachment increase, so that I spent much time, partly in studying what
actually existed, partly in restoring, in my mind and on paper, what
was wanting and unfinished, especially in the towers.

Since now I found that this building had been based on old German
ground, and grown thus far in genuine German times, and that the name
of the master, on his modest gravestone, was likewise of native sound
and origin, I ventured, being incited by the worth of this work of art,
to change the hitherto decried appellation of "Gothic architecture,"
and to claim it for our nation as "German architecture;" nor did I fail
to bring my patriotic views to light, first orally, and afterwards in a
little treatise, dedicated to the memory of Ervinus a Steinbach.

If my biographical narrative should come down to the epoch when the
said sheet appeared in print, which Herder afterwards inserted in
his pamphlet: _Von Deutscher Art und Kunst_, (_Of German Manner and
Art_,) much more will be said on this weighty subject. But before I
turn myself away from it this time, I will take the opportunity to
vindicate the motto prefixed to the present volume, with those who may
have entertained some doubt about it. I know indeed very well, that
in opposition to this honest, hopeful old German saying: "Whatever
one wishes in youth, one has abundance in old age!" many would quote
contrary experience, and many trifling comments might be made; but much
also is to be said in its favour, and I will explain my own thoughts on
the matter.

Our wishes are presentiments of the capabilities which lie within us,
and harbingers of that which we shall be in a condition to perform.
Whatever we are able and would like to do, presents itself to our
imagination, as without us and in the future; we feel a longing
after that which we already possess in secret. Thus a passionate
anticipating grasp changes the truly possible into a dreamed reality.
Now if such a bias lies decidedly in our nature, then, with every step
of our development will a part of the first wish be fulfilled--under
favourable circumstances in the direct way, under unfavourable in
the circuitous way, from which we always come back again to the
other. Thus we see men by perseverance attain to earthly wealth; they
surround themselves with riches, splendour, and external honour. Others
strive yet more certainly after intellectual advantages, acquire for
themselves a clear survey of things, a peacefulness of mind, and a
certainty for the present and the future.

But now there is a third direction, which is compounded of both, and
the issue of which must be the most surely successful. When, namely,
the youth of a man falls into a pregnant time, when production
overweighs destruction, and a presentiment is early awakened within
him as to what such an epoch demands and promises, he will then, being
forced by outward inducements into an active interest, take hold now
here, now there, and the wish to be active on many sides will be lively
within him. But so many accidental hindrances are associated with human
limitation, that here a thing, once begun, remains unfinished, there
that which is already grasped falls out of the hand, and one wish
after another is dissipated. But had these wishes sprung out of a pure
heart, and in conformity with the necessities of the times, one might
composedly let them lie and fall right and left, and be assured that
these must not only be found out and picked up again, but that also
many kindred things, which one has never touched and never even thought
of, will come to light. If now, during our own lifetime, we see that
performed by others, to which we ourselves felt an earlier call, but
had been obliged to give it up, with much besides; then the beautiful
feeling enters the mind, that only mankind together is the true man,
and that the individual can only be joyous and happy when he has the
courage to feel himself in the whole.

[Side-note: Study of German Architecture.]

This contemplation is here in the right place: for when I reflect
on the affection which drew me to these antique edifices, when I
reckon up the time which I devoted to the Strasburg minster alone,
the attention with which I afterwards examined the cathedral at
Cologne, and that at Freyburg, and more and more felt the value of
these buildings, I could even blame myself for having afterwards lost
sight of them altogether, nay, for having left them completely in the
background, being attracted by a more developed art. But when I now,
in the latest times, see attention again turned to those objects, when
I see affection and even passion for them appearing and flourishing,
when I see able young persons seized with this passion, recklessly
devoting powers, time, care, and property, to these memorials of a past
world, then am I reminded with pleasure that what I formerly would and
wished had a value. With satisfaction I see that they not only know
how to prize what was done by our forefathers, but that from existing
unfinished beginnings they try to represent, in pictures at least, the
original design, so as thus to make us acquainted with the thought,
which is ever the beginning and end of all undertakings; and that
they strive with considerate zeal to clear up and vivify what seems
to be a confused past. Here I especially applaud the gallant Sulpiz
Boisserée, who is indefatigably employed in a magnificent series of
copper-plates to exhibit the cathedral of Cologne as the model of those
vast conceptions, the spirit of which, like that of Babel, strove up
to heaven, and which were so out of proportion to earthly means, that
they were necessarily stopped fast in their execution. If we have been
hitherto astonished that such buildings proceeded only so far, we shall
learn with the greatest wonder what was really designed to be done.

May the literary-artistical undertakings of this kind be duly
patronized by all who have power, wealth, and influence, that the
great and gigantic views of our forefathers may be presented to our
contemplation, and that we may be able to form a conception of what
they dared to desire. The insight resulting from this will not remain
fruitless, and the judgment will, for once at least, be in a condition
to exercise itself on these works with justice. Nay, this will be done
most thoroughly, if our active young friend, besides the monograph
devoted to the cathedral of Cologne, follows out in detail the history
of our mediæval architecture. When whatever is to be known about the
practical exercise of this art is further brought to light, when the
art is represented in all its fundamental features by a comparison
with the Græco-Roman and the oriental Egyptian, little can remain to
be done in this department. And I, when the results of such patriotic
labours lie before the world, as they are now known in friendly private
communications, shall be able, with true content, to repeat that motto
in its best sense: "Whatever one wishes in youth, in old age one has
abundance."

But if, in operations like these, which belong to centuries, one can
trust oneself to time, and wait for opportunity, there are, on the
contrary, other things which in youth must be enjoyed at once, fresh,
like ripe fruits. Let me be permitted, with this sudden turn, to
mention dancing, of which the ear is reminded, as the eye is of the
minster, every day and every hour in Strasburg and all Alsace. From
early youth my father himself had given my sister and me instruction
in dancing, a task which must have comported strangely enough with
so stern a man; but he did not suffer his composure to be put out by
it; he drilled us in the positions and steps in a manner the most
precise, and when he had brought us far enough to dance a minuet, he
played for us something easily intelligible in three-four time, on a
_flute-douce_, and we moved to it as well as we could. On the French
theatre, likewise, I had seen from my youth upwards, if not ballets,
yet _pas seuls_ and _pas de deux_, and had noticed in them various
strange motions of the feet, and all sorts of springs. When now we had
enough of the minuet, I begged my father for other dancing music, of
which our music-books, in their jigs and murkies,[2] offered us a rich
supply; and I immediately found out, of myself, the steps and other
motions for them, the time being quite suitable to my limbs, and, as
it were, born with them. This pleased my father to a certain degree;
indeed, he often, by way of joke for himself and us, let the "monkies"
dance in this way. After my misfortune with Gretchen, and during the
whole of my residence in Leipzig, I did not make my appearance again
on the floor; on the contrary, I still remember that when, at a ball,
they forced me into a minuet, both measure and motion seemed to have
abandoned my limbs, and I could no more remember either the steps or
the figures, so that I should have been put to disgrace and shame if
the greater part of the spectators had not maintained that my awkward
behaviour was pure obstinacy, assumed with the view of depriving the
ladies of all desire to invite me and draw me into their circle against
my will.

[Side-note: The Dancing-Master's Daughters.]

During my residence in Frankfort, I was quite cut off from such
pleasures; but in Strasburg, with other enjoyments of life, there
soon arose in my limbs the faculty of keeping time. On Sundays and
week-days, one sauntered by no pleasure-ground without finding
there a joyous crowd assembled for the dance, and for the most part
revolving in the circle. Moreover, there were private balls in the
country-houses, and people were already talking of the brilliant
masquerades of the coming winter. Here, indeed, I should have been
out of my place, and useless to the company; when a friend, who
waltzed very well, advised me to practise myself first in parties of
a lower rank, so that afterwards I might be worth something in the
highest. He took me to a dancing-master, who was well known for his
skill; this man promised me that, when I had in some degree repeated
the first elements, and made myself master of them, he would then
lead me further. He was one of the dry, ready French characters, and
received me in a friendly manner. I paid him a month in advance, and
received twelve tickets, for which he agreed to give me certain hours'
instruction. The man was strict and precise, but not pedantic; and as
I already had some previous practice, I soon gave him satisfaction and
received his commendation.

One circumstance, however, greatly facilitated the instruction of this
teacher; he had two daughters, both pretty, and both yet under twenty.
Having been instructed in this art from their youth upwards, they
showed themselves very skilful, and might have been able, as partners,
soon to help even the most clumsy scholars into some cultivation. They
were both very polite, spoke nothing but French, and I, on my part,
did my best, that I might not appear awkward or ridiculous before
them. I had the good fortune that they likewise praised me, and were
always willing to dance a minuet to their father's little violin, and,
what indeed was more difficult for them, to initiate me, by degrees,
into waltzing and whirling. Their father did not seem to have many
customers, and they led a lonely life. For this reason they often
asked me to remain with them after my hour, and to chat away the time
a little; which I the more willingly did, as the younger one pleased
me well, and generally they both altogether behaved very becomingly.
I often read aloud something from a novel, and they did the same. The
elder, who was as handsome, perhaps even handsomer, than the second,
but who did not correspond with my taste so well as the latter, always
conducted herself towards me more obligingly, and more kindly in every
respect. She was always at hand during the hour, and often protracted
it; hence I sometimes thought myself bound to offer back a couple of
tickets to her father, which, however, he did not accept. The younger
one, on the contrary, although she did nothing unfriendly towards me,
was yet rather reserved, and waited till she was called by her father
before she relieved the elder.

[Side-note: The Fortune-Teller.]

The cause of this became manifest to me one evening. For when, after
the dance was done, I was about to go into the sitting-room with the
elder, she held me back and said, "Let us remain here a little longer;
for I will confess to you that my sister has with her a woman who tells
fortunes from cards, and who is to reveal to her how matters stand with
an absent lover, on whom her whole heart hangs, and upon whom she has
placed all her hope. Mine is free," she continued, "and I must accustom
myself to see it despised." I thereupon said sundry pretty things to
her, replying that she could at once convince herself on that point
by consulting the wise woman likewise; that I would do so myself, for
I had long wished to learn something of the kind, but lacked faith.
She blamed me for this, and assured me that nothing in the world was
surer than the responses of this oracle, only it must be consulted,
not out of sport and mischief, but solely in real affairs. However, I
at last compelled her to go with me into that room, as soon as she had
ascertained that the consultation was over. We found her sister in a
very cheerful humour, and even towards me she was kinder than usual,
sportive, and almost witty; for since she seemed to be secure of an
absent friend, she may have thought it no treachery to be a little
gracious with a present friend of her sister's, which she thought me
to be. The old woman was now flattered, and good payment was promised
her, if she would tell the truth to the elder sister and to me. With
the usual preparations and ceremonies she began her business, in order
to tell the fair one's fortune first. She carefully considered the
situation of the cards, but seemed to hesitate, and would not speak out
what she had to say. "I see now," said the younger, who was already
better acquainted with the interpretation of such a magic tablet,
"you hesitate, and do not wish to disclose anything disagreeable to
my sister; but that is a cursed card!" The elder one turned pale, but
composed herself, and said, "Only speak out; it will not cost one's
head!" The old woman, after a deep sigh, showed her that she was in
love, that she was not beloved, that another person stood in the way,
and other things of like import. We saw the good girl's embarrassment.
The old woman thought somewhat to improve the affair by giving hopes
of letters and money. "Letters," said the lovely child, "I do not
expect, and money I do not desire. If it is true, as you say, that I
love, I deserve a heart that loves me in return." "Let us see if it
will not be better," replied the old woman, as she shuffled the cards
and laid them out a second time; but before the eyes of all of us, it
had only become still worse. The fair one stood not only more lonely,
but surrounded with many sorrows; her lover had moved somewhat farther,
and the intervening figures nearer. The old woman wished to try it the
third time, in hopes of a better prospect; but the beautiful girl could
restrain herself no longer, she broke out into uncontrollable weeping,
her lovely bosom heaved violently, she turned round, and rushed out
of the room. I knew not what I should do. Inclination kept me with
the one present; compassion drove me to the other; my situation was
painful enough. "Comfort Lucinda," said the younger; "go after her."
I hesitated: how could I comfort her without at least assuring her of
some sort of affection, and could I do that at such a moment in a cool,
moderate manner? "Let us go together," said I to Emilia. "I know not
whether my presence will do her good," replied she. Yet we went, but
found the door bolted. Lucinda made no answer; we might knock, shout,
entreat, as we would. "We must let her have her own way," said Emilia;
"she will not have it otherwise now!" And, indeed, when I called to
my mind her manner from our very first acquaintance, she always
had something violent and unequal about her, and chiefly showed her
affection for me by not behaving to me with rudeness. What should I do?
I paid the old woman richly for the mischief she had caused, and was
about to go, when Emilia said, "I stipulate that the cards shall now be
cut for you too." The old woman was ready. "Do not let me be present,"
cried I, and hastened down stairs.

[Side-note: Scene with the Two Sisters.]

The next day I had not courage to go there. The third day, early in the
morning, Emilia sent me word by a boy who had already brought me many
a message from the sisters, and had carried back flowers and fruits to
them in return, that I should not fail that day. I came at the usual
hour, and found the father alone, who, in many respects, improved my
paces and steps, my goings and comings, my bearing and behaviour, and,
moreover, seemed to be satisfied with me. The younger daughter came in
towards the end of the hour, and danced with me a very graceful minuet,
in which her movements were extraordinarily pleasing, and her father
declared that he had rarely seen a prettier and more nimble pair upon
his floor. After the lesson, I went as usual into the sitting-room;
the father left us alone; I missed Lucinda. "She is in bed," said
Emilia, "and I am glad of it; do not be concerned about it. Her mental
illness is first alleviated when she fancies herself bodily sick; she
does not like to die, and therefore she then does what we wish. We
have certain family medicines which she takes, and reposes; and thus,
by degrees, the swelling waves subside. She is, indeed, too good and
amiable in such an imaginary sickness, and as she is in reality very
well, and is only attacked by passion, she imagines various kinds
of romantic deaths, with which she frightens herself in a pleasant
manner, like children when we tell them ghost-stories. Thus, yesterday
evening, she announced to me with great vehemence, that this time she
should certainly die, and that only when she was really near death,
they should bring again before her the ungrateful false friend, who
had at first acted so handsomely to her, and now treated her so ill;
she would reproach him bitterly, and then give up the ghost." "I know
not that I am guilty," exclaimed I, "of having expressed any sort of
affection for her. I know somebody who can best bear me witness in this
respect." Emilia smiled and rejoined, "I understand you; and if we
are not discreet and determined, we shall all find ourselves in a bad
plight together. What will you say if I entreat you not to continue
your lessons? You have, I believe, four tickets yet of the last month,
and my father has already declared that he finds it inexcusable to take
your money any longer, unless you wish to devote yourself to the art
of dancing in a more serious manner; what is required by a young man
of the world you possess already." "And do you, Emilia, give me this
advice, to avoid your house?" replied I. "Yes, I do," said she, "but
not of myself. Only listen. When you hastened away, the day before
yesterday, I had the cards cut for you, and the same response was
repeated thrice, and each time more emphatically. You were surrounded
by everything good and pleasing, by friends and great lords, and there
was no lack of money. The ladies kept themselves at some distance. My
poor sister in particular stood always the farthest off; one other
advanced constantly nearer to you, but never came up to your side, for
a third person, of the male sex, always came between. I will confess
to you that I thought that I myself was meant by the second lady, and
after this confession you will best comprehend my well-meant counsel.
To an absent friend I have promised my heart and my hand, and, until
now, I loved him above all; yet it might be possible for your presence
to become more important to me than hitherto, and what kind of a
situation would you have between two sisters, one of whom you had made
unhappy by your affection, and the other by your coldness, and all this
ado about nothing and only for a short time? For if we had not known
already who you are and what are your expectations, the cards would
have placed it before my eyes in the clearest manner. Fare you well!"
said she, and gave me her hand. I hesitated. "Now," said she, leading
me towards the door, "that it may really be the last time that we shall
speak to each other, take what I would otherwise have denied you." She
fell upon my neck, and kissed me most tenderly. I embraced her, and
pressed her to my bosom.

At this moment the side-door flew open, and her sister, in a light
but becoming night-dress, sprang out and cried, "You shall not be the
only one to take leave of him!" Emilia let me go, and Lucinda seized
me, clasped herself fast to my heart, pressed her black locks upon my
cheeks, and remained in this position for some time. And thus I found
myself in the dilemma between two sisters which Emilia had prophesied
to me a moment before. Lucinda let me loose, and looked earnestly into
my face. I would have taken her hand and said something friendly to
her, but she turned herself away, walked with violent steps up and down
the room for some time, and then threw herself into a corner of the
sofa. Emilia went to her, but was immediately repulsed, and here began
a scene which is yet painful to me in the recollection, and which,
although really it had nothing theatrical about it, but was quite
suitable to a lively young Frenchwoman, could only be properly repeated
in the theatre by a good and feeling actress.

[Side-note: Lucinda's Curse.]

Lucinda overwhelmed her sister with a thousand reproaches. "This is
not the first heart," she cried, "that was inclining itself to me, and
that you have turned away. Was it not just so with him who is absent,
and who at last betrothed himself to you under my very eyes? I was
compelled to look on; I endured it; but I know how many thousand tears
it has cost me. This one, too, you have now taken away from me, without
letting the other go; and how many do you not manage to keep at once?
I am frank and good-natured, and every one thinks he knows me soon,
and may neglect me. You are secret and quiet, and people think wonders
of what may be concealed behind you. Yet there is nothing behind but
a cold, selfish heart that can sacrifice everything to itself; this
nobody learns so easily, because it lies deeply hidden in your breast;
and just as little do they know of my warm, true heart, which I carry
about with me as open as my face."

Emilia was silent, and had sat down by her sister, who became
constantly more and more excited in her discourse, and let certain
private matters slip out, which it was not exactly proper for me to
know. Emilia, on the other hand, who was trying to pacify her sister,
made me a sign from behind that I should withdraw; but as jealousy and
suspicion see with a thousand eyes, Lucinda seemed to have noticed this
also. She sprang up and advanced to me, but not with vehemence. She
stood before me, and seemed to be thinking of something. Then she said,
"I know that I have lost you; I make no further pretensions to you. But
neither shall you have him, sister!"

With these words she grasped me very singularly by the head, thrusting
both her hands into my locks, pressing my face to hers, and kissed me
repeatedly on the mouth. "Now," cried she, "fear my curse! Woe upon
woe, for ever and ever, to her who kisses these lips for the first time
after me! Dare to have anything more to do with him! I know heaven
hears me this time. And you, Sir, hasten now, hasten away as fast as
you can!"

I flew down the stairs, with the firm determination never to outer the
house again.


[1] A Repetent is one of a class of persons to be found in the German
universities, and who assist students in their studies. They are
somewhat analogous to the English Tutors, but not precisely; for the
latter render their aid _before_ the recitation, while the Repetent
_repeats_ with the student, in private, the lectures he has previously
heard from the professor. Hence his name, which might be rendered
_Repeater_, had we any corresponding class of men in England or
America, which would justify an English word_.--American Note._

[2] A "murki" is defined as an old species of short composition
for the harpsichord, with a lively murmuring accompaniment in the
bass.--_Trans._




TENTH BOOK.


The German poets, since they, as members of a corporation, no longer
stood as one man, did not enjoy the smallest advantages in the
citizen-world. They had neither support, standing, nor respectability,
except in so far as their other position was favourable to them, and
therefore it was a matter of mere chance whether talent was born to
honour or to disgrace. A poor son of earth, with a consciousness of
mind and faculties, was forced to crawl along painfully through life,
and, from the pressure of momentary necessities, to squander the gifts
which perchance he had received from the Muses. Occasional poems, the
first and most genuine of all kinds of poetry, had become despicable
to such a degree, that the nation even now cannot attain a conception
of their high value; and a poet, if he did not strike altogether into
Günther's** path, appeared in the world in the most melancholy state of
subserviency, as a jester and parasite, so that both on the theatre and
on the stage of life he represented a character which any one and every
one could abuse at pleasure.

If, on the contrary, the Muse associated herself with men of
respectability, these received thereby a lustre which was reflected
back to the donor. Noblemen well versed in life, like Hagedorn,
dignified citizens, like Brockes, distinguished men of science, like
Haller, appeared among the first in the nation, to be equal with the
most eminent and the most prized. Those persons, too, were specially
honoured, who, together with this pleasing talent, distinguished
themselves as active, faithful men of business. In this way Uz,
Rabener, and Weisse enjoyed a respect of quite a peculiar kind; people
had here to value, when combined, those most heterogeneous qualities
which are seldom found united.

[Side-note: Klopstock.]

But now the time was to come when poetic genius should become aware of
itself, should create for itself its own relations, and understand how
to lay the foundation of an independent dignity. Everything necessary
to found such an epoch was combined in KLOPSTOCK. Considered both
from the sensual and moral side, he was a pure young man. Seriously
and thoroughly educated, he places, from his youth upwards, a great
value upon himself and upon whatever he does, and while considerately
measuring out beforehand the steps of his life, turns, with a
presentiment of the whole strength of his internal nature, towards the
loftiest and most grateful theme. The _Messiah_, a name which betokens
infinite attributes, was to be glorified afresh by him. The Redeemer
was to be the hero whom the poet thought to accompany through earthly
lowliness and sorrows to the highest heavenly triumphs. Everything
Godlike, angelic, and human that lay in the young soul was here
called into requisition. Brought up by the Bible and nourished by its
strength, he now lives with patriarchs, prophets, and forerunners,
as if they were present; yet all these are only evoked from ages to
draw a bright halo round the One whose humiliation they behold with
astonishment, and in whose exaltation they are gloriously to bear a
part. For at last, after gloomy and horrible hours, the everlasting
Judge will uncloud his face, again acknowledge his Son and fellow-God,
who, on the other hand, will again lead to Him alienated men, nay,
even a fallen spirit. The living heavens shout with a thousand angel
voices round the throne, and a radiance of love gushes out over the
universe, which shortly before had fastened its looks upon a fearful
place of sacrifice. The heavenly peace which Klopstock felt in the
conception and execution of this poem, communicates itself even now
to every one who reads the first ten cantos, without allowing certain
requisitions to be brought forward, which an advancing cultivation does
not willingly abandon.

The dignity of the subject elevated in the poet the feeling of his own
personality. That he himself would enter hereafter into those choirs,
that the God-Man would distinguish him, nay, give him face to face the
reward for his labours, which even here every feeling, pious heart had
fondly paid in many a pure tear--these were such innocent, childlike
thoughts and hopes, as only a well-constituted mind can conceive and
cherish. Thus Klopstock gained the perfect right to regard himself
as a consecrated person, and thus in his actions he studied the most
scrupulous purity. Even in his old age it troubled him exceedingly that
he had given his earliest love to a lady who, by marrying another,
left him in uncertainty whether she had really loved him or been worthy
of him. The sentiments which bound him to Meta, their hearty, tranquil
affection, their short sacred married life, the aversion of the
surviving husband from a second union, all is of that kind which may
well be remembered hereafter in the circle of the blessed.

This honourable conduct towards himself was still further enhanced by
his being favourably received for a long time in well-minded Denmark,
in the house of a great, and, humanly speaking, excellent statesman.
Here, in a higher circle, which was exclusive indeed, but, at the same
time, devoted to external manners and attention towards the world, his
tendency became still more decided. A composed demeanour, a measured
speech, and a laconism even when he spoke openly and decidedly,
gave him, through his whole life, a certain diplomatic ministerial
consequence, which seemed to be at variance with his tender natural
feelings, although both sprang from one source. Of all this, his first
works give a clear transcript and type, and they thus could not but
gain an incredible influence. That, however, he personally assisted
others who were struggling in life and poetry, has scarcely been
mentioned, as one of his most decided characteristics.

[Side-note: Klopstock and Gleim.]

But just such a furtherance of young people in literary action and
pursuit, a hopeful pleasure in bringing forward men not favoured by
fortune, and making the way easy to them, has rendered illustrious one
German, who, in respect to the dignity which he gave himself, may be
named as the second, but, in regard to his living influence, as the
first. It will escape no one that GLEIM is here meant. In possession
of an obscure, indeed, but lucrative office, residing in a pleasantly
situated spot, not too large, and enlivened by military, civic, and
literary activity, whence proceeded the revenues of a great and wealthy
institution, not without a part of them remaining behind for the
advantage of the place, he felt within himself also a lively productive
impulse, which, however, with all its strength, was not quite enough
for him, and therefore he gave himself up to another, perhaps stronger
impulse, namely, that of making others produce something. Both these
activities were intertwined incessantly during his whole long life. He
could as easily have lived without taking breath, as without writing
poetry and making presents, and by helping needy talents of all kinds
through earlier or later embarrassments, contributing to the honour of
literature, he gained so many friends, debtors, and dependents, that
they willingly allowed his diffuse verses to pass, since they could
give him nothing in return for his rich benefits but endurance of his
poetry.

Now, the high idea which these two men might well form of their own
worth, and by which others were induced also to think themselves
somebody, has produced very great and beautiful results, both in public
and private, But this consciousness, honourable as it is, called a
peculiar evil down for themselves, for those around them, and for their
time. If, judging from their intellectual effects, both these men may
without hesitation be called great, with respect to the world they
remained but small, and considered in comparison with a more stirring
life, their external position was nought. The day is long, and so is
the night: one cannot be always writing poetry, or doing, or giving;
their time could not be filled up like that of people of the world, and
men of rank and wealth; they therefore set too high a value on their
particular limited situations, attached an importance to their daily
affairs which they should only have allowed themselves amongst each
other, and took more than reasonable delight in their own jokes, which,
though they made the moment agreeable, could be of no consequence in
the end. They received praise and honour from others, as they deserved;
they gave it back, with measure indeed, but always too profusely; and
because they felt that their friendship was worth much, they were
pleased to express it repeatedly, and in this spared neither paper nor
ink. Thus arose those correspondences, at the deficiency of which in
solid contents the modern world wonders, nor can it be blamed, when
it hardly sees the possibility of eminent men delighting themselves
in such an interchange of nothing, or when it expresses the wish that
such leaves might have remained unprinted. But we may suffer these few
volumes always to stand along with so many others upon our bookshelves,
if we have learned from them the fact that even the most eminent man
lives only by the day, and enjoys but a sorry entertainment, when he
throws himself too much back upon himself, and neglects to grasp into
the fulness of the external world, where alone he can find nourishment
for his growth, and at the same time a standard for its measurement.

The activity of these men was in its finest bloom, when we young folks
began also to bestir ourselves in our own circle, and with my younger
friends, if not with older persons too. I was pretty much in the way
of falling into this sort of mutual flattery, forbearance, raising and
supporting. In my immediate sphere, whatever I produced could always be
reckoned good. Ladies, friends, and patrons will not consider bad that
which is undertaken and written out of affection for them. From such
obligations at last arises the expression of an empty satisfaction with
each other, in the phrases of which a character is easily lost, if it
is not from time to time steeled to higher excellence.

And thus I had the happiness to say that, by means of an unexpected
acquaintance, all the self-complacency, love of the looking-glass,
vanity, pride, and haughtiness that might have been resting or working
within me, were exposed to a very severe trial, which was unique in its
kind, by no means in accordance with the time, and therefore so much
the more searching and more sorely felt.

[Side-note: Herder.]

For the most important event, one that was to have the weightiest
consequences for me, was my acquaintance with HERDER, and the nearer
connexion with him which sprung from it. He accompanied the travels of
the Prince of Holstein-Eutin, who was in a melancholy state of mind,
and had come with him to Strasburg. Our society, as soon as it knew of
his arrival, was seized with a great longing to approach him, and this
good fortune happened to me first, quite unexpectedly and by chance.
I had gone to the Ghost tavern to inquire after some distinguished
stranger or other. Just at the bottom of the staircase I found a man
who was on the point of ascending, and whom I might have taken for a
clergyman. His powdered hair was put up in a queue, his black clothes
likewise distinguished him, but still more a long black silk mantle,
the skirts of which he had gathered up and stuck into his pocket. This
somewhat striking, but yet, on the whole, polite and pleasing figure,
of which I had already been told, left me not the least doubt that he
was the celebrated newcomer, and my address was to convince him at once
that I knew him. He asked my name, which could be of no consequence
to him; but my frankness seemed to please him, since he returned it
with great friendliness, and as we mounted the stairs, showed himself
ready immediately for animated communication. I have forgotten whom
we visited then; it is sufficient to say, that at parting I begged
permission to wait on him at his own residence, which he granted me
kindly enough. I did not neglect to avail myself repeatedly of this
favour, and was more and more attracted by him. He had somewhat of
softness in his manner, which was very suitable and becoming, without
being exactly easy. A round face, an imposing forehead, a somewhat
puggish nose, a mouth somewhat prominent, but highly characteristic,
pleasing, and amiable; a pair of coal-black eyes under black eye-brows,
which did not fail of their effect, although one of them used to be red
and inflamed. By various questions he tried to make himself acquainted
with me and my situation, and his power of attraction operated on me
with growing strength. I was, generally speaking, of a very confiding
disposition, and with him especially I had no secrets. It was not long,
however, before the repelling pulse of his nature began to appear, and
placed me in no small uneasiness. I related to him many things of my
youthful occupations and taste, and among others, of a collection of
seals, which I had principally gotten together through the assistance
of our family friend, who had an extensive correspondence. I had
arranged them according to the _State Calendar_, and by this means had
become well acquainted with the whole of the potentates, the greater
and lesser mightinesses and powers, even down to the nobility under
them. These heraldic insignia had often, and in particular at the
ceremonies of the coronation, been of use to my memory. I spoke of
these things with some complacency; but he was of another opinion, and
not only stripped the subject of all interest, but also contrived to
make it ridiculous and nearly disgusting.

From this his spirit of contradiction I had much to endure; for he
had resolved, partly because he wished to separate from the prince,
partly on account of a complaint in his eye, to remain in Strasburg.
This complaint is one of the most inconvenient and unpleasant, and
the more troublesome since it can be cured only by a painful, highly
irritating and uncertain operation. The tear-bag is closed below, so
that the moisture contained in it cannot flow off to the nose, and so
much the less as the adjacent bone is deficient in the aperture by
which this secretion should naturally take place. The bottom of the
tear-bag must therefore be cut open, and the bone bored through, when a
horse-hair is drawn through the lachrymal point, then down through the
opened bag, and the new canal thus put into connexion with it, and this
hair is moved backwards and forwards every day, in order to restore
the communication between the two parts;--all which cannot be done or
attained, if an incision is not first made externally in that place.

Herder was now separated from the prince, was moved into lodgings
of his own, and resolved to have himself operated upon by Lobstein.
Here those exercises by which I had sought to blunt my sensibility
did me good service; I was able to be present at the operation, and
to be serviceable and helpful in many ways to so worthy a man. I
found here every reason to admire his great firmness and endurance:
for neither during the numerous surgical operations, nor at the
oft-repeated painful dressings, did he show himself in any degree
irritable, and of all of us he seemed to be the one who suffered
least. But in the intervals, indeed, we had to endure the changes of
his temper in many ways. I say _we_ for besides myself, a pleasant
Russian, named PEGLOW, was mostly with him. This man had been an early
acquaintance of Herder's in Riga, and though no longer a youth, was
trying to perfect himself in surgery under Lobstein's guidance. Herder
could be charmingly prepossessing and brilliant, but he could just
as easily turn an ill-humoured side foremost. All men, indeed, have
this attraction and repulsion, according to their nature, some more,
some less, some in longer, some in shorter pulsations; few can really
control their peculiarities in this respect, many in appearance. As for
Herder, the preponderance of his contradictory, bitter, biting humour
was certainly derived from his disease and the sufferings arising from
it. This case often occurs in life; one does not sufficiently take
into consideration the moral effect of sickly conditions, and one
therefore judges many characters very unjustly, because it is assumed
that all men are healthy, and required of them that they shall conduct
themselves accordingly.

[Side-note: Herder.]

During the whole time of this cure I visited Herder morning and
evening; I even remained whole days with him, and in a short time
accustomed myself so much the more to his chiding and fault-finding,
as I daily learned to appreciate his beautiful and great qualities,
his extensive knowledge, and his profound views. The influence of this
good-natured blusterer was great and important. He was five years
older than myself, which in younger days makes a great difference
to begin with; and as I acknowledged him for what he was, and tried
to value that which he had already produced, he necessarily gained
a great superiority over me. But the situation was not comfortable;
for older persons, with whom I had associated hitherto, had sought
to form me with indulgence, perhaps had even spoiled me by their
lenity; but from Herder, behave as one might, one could never expect
approval. As now, on the one side, my great affection and reverence
for him, and on the other, the discontent which he excited in me,
were continually at strife with each other, there arose within me an
inward struggle, the first of its kind which I had experienced in my
life. Since his conversations were at all times important, whether he
asked, answered, or communicated his opinions in any other manner, he
could not but advance me daily, nay hourly, to new views. At Leipzig,
I had accustomed myself to a narrow and circumscribed existence, and
my general knowledge of German literature could not be extended by my
situation in Frankfort; nay, those mystico-religio-chemical occupations
had led me into obscure regions, and what had been passing for some
years back in the wide literary world, had for the most part remained
unknown to me. Now I was at once made acquainted by Herder with all the
new aspiration, and all the tendencies which it seemed to be taking. He
had already made himself sufficiently known, and by his _Fragments_,
his _Kritische Wälder_ (_Critical Woods_), and other works, had
immediately placed himself by the side of the most eminent men who had
for a long time drawn towards them the eyes of their country. What an
agitation there must have been in such a mind--what a fermentation
there must have been in such a nature--can neither be conceived nor
described. But great was certainly the concealed effort, as will be
easily admitted, when one reflects for how many years afterwards and
how much he has done and produced.

We had not lived together long in this manner when he confided to me
that he meant to be a competitor for the prize which was offered, at
Berlin, for the best treatise on the origin of language. His work was
already nearly completed, and, as he wrote a very neat hand, he could
soon communicate to me, in parts, a legible manuscript. I had never
reflected on such subjects, for I was yet too deeply involved in the
midst of things to have thought about their beginning and end. The
question, too, seemed to me in some measure an idle one; for if God
had created man as man, language was just as innate in him as walking
erect; he must have just as well perceived that he could sing with
his throat, and modify the tones in various ways with tongue, palate,
and lips, as he must have remarked that he could walk and take hold
of things. If man was of divine origin, so was also language itself;
and if man, considered in the circle of nature, was a natural being,
language was likewise natural. These two things, like soul and body,
I could never separate. Süssmilch, with a realism crude yet somewhat
fantastically devised, had declared himself for the divine origin, that
is, that God had played the schoolmaster to the first men. Herder's
treatise went to show that man as man could and must have attained to
language by his own powers. I read the treatise with much pleasure, and
it was of special aid in strengthening my mind; only I did not stand
high enough either in knowledge or thought to form a solid judgment
upon it. I therefore gave the author my applause, adding only a few
remarks which flowed from my way of viewing the subject. But one was
received just like the other; there was scolding and blaming, whether
one agreed with him conditionally or unconditionally. The fat surgeon
had less patience than I; he humorously declined the communication of
this prize-essay, and affirmed that he was not prepared to meditate on
such abstract topics. He urged us in preference to a game of ombre,
which we commonly played together in the evening.

[Side-note: Herder's Sarcasms.]

During so troublesome and painful a cure, Herder lost nothing of his
vivacity; but it became less and less amiable. He could not write a
note to ask for anything, that would not be spiced with some scoff or
other. Once, for instance, he wrote to me thus:--

    "If those letters of Brutus thou hast in thy Cicero's letters,
     Thou, whom consolers of schools, deck'd out in magnificent bindings,
     Soothe from their well plan'd shelves--yet more by the outside than
            inside,
     Thou, who from gods art descended, or Goths, or from origin filthy,[1]
     Goethe, send them to me."

It was not polite, indeed, that he should allow himself this jest on my
name; for a man's name is not like a mantle, which merely hangs about
him, and which, perchance, may be safely twitched and pulled; but is a
perfectly fitting garment, which has grown over and over him like his
very skin, at which one cannot scratch and scrape without wounding the
man himself.

The first reproach, on the contrary, was better founded. I had brought
with me to Strasburg the authors I had obtained, by exchange, from
Langer, with various fine editions from my father's collection besides,
and had set them up on a neat book-case, with the best intentions of
using them. But how should my time, which I split up into an hundred
different activities, suffice for that? Herder, who was most attentive
to books, since he had need of them every moment, perceived my fine
collection at his first visit, but soon saw, too, that I made no use of
them. He, therefore, as the greatest enemy to all false appearances and
ostentation, was accustomed, on occasion, to rally me upon the subject.

Another sarcastic poem occurs to me, which he sent me one evening,
when I had been telling him a great deal about the Dresden gallery.
I had, indeed, not penetrated into the higher meaning of the Italian
school; but Dominico Feti, an excellent artist, although a humorist,
and therefore not of the first rank, had interested me much. Scripture
subjects had to be painted. He confined himself to the New Testament
parables, and was fond of representing them with much originality,
taste, and good-humour. He brought them altogether into every-day life,
and the spirited and _naïve_ details of his compositions, recommended
by a free pencil, had made a vivid impression upon me. At this, my
childish enthusiasm for art, Herder sneered in the following fashion:--

            "From sympathy,
    The master I like best of all
    Dominico Feti they call.
    A parable from Scripture he is able
    Neatly to turn into a crazy fable
    From sympathy:--thou crazy parable!"

I could mention many jokes of the kind, more or less clear or
abstruse, cheerful or bitter. They did not vex me, but made me feel
uncomfortable. Yet since I knew how to value highly everything that
contributed to my own cultivation, and as I had often given up former
opinions and inclinations, I soon accommodated myself, and only sought,
as far as it was possible for me from my point of view, to distinguish
just blame from unjust invectives. And thus no day passed over that had
not been, in the most fruitful manner, instructive to me.

I was made acquainted by him with poetry from quite a different side,
in another light than heretofore, and one, too, which suited me well.
The poetic art of the Hebrews, which he treated ingeniously after
his predecessor Lowth--popular poetry, the traditions of which in
Alsace he urged us to search after; and the oldest records existing
as poetry--all bore witness that poetry in general was a gift to the
world and to nations, and not the private inheritance of a few refined,
cultivated men. I swallowed all this, and the more eager I was in
receiving, the more liberal was he in giving, so that we spent the
most interesting hours together. The other natural studies which I had
begun, I endeavoured to continue, and as one always has time enough,
if one will apply it well, so amongst them all I succeeded in doing
twice or thrice as much as usual. As to the fulness of those few weeks
during which we lived together, I can well say that all which Herder
has gradually produced since, was then announced in the germ, and that
I thereby fell into the fortunate condition that I could completely
attach to something higher, and expand all that I had hitherto thought,
learned, and made my own. Had Herder been methodical, I should have
found the most precious guide for giving a durable tendency to my
cultivation; but he was more inclined to examine and stimulate,
than to lead and conduct. Thus he at first made me acquainted with
Hamann's writings, upon which he set a very great value. But instead
of instructing me as to these, and making the bias and drift of his
extraordinary mind intelligible to me, it generally only served him
for amusement when I behaved strangely enough, in trying to get at
the meaning of such sibylline leaves. However, I could well feel that
something in Hamann's writings appealed to me; and to this I gave
myself up, without knowing whence it came or whither it was leading me.

[Side-note: Herder's Departure.]

After the cure had lasted longer than was reasonable, Lobstein had
begun to hesitate, and to repeat himself in his treatment, so that
the affair would not come to an end; and Peglow, too, had confided
to me in private that a favourable issue was hardly to be expected;
the whole position became gloomy; Herder became impatient and out of
temper, he could not succeed in continuing his activity as heretofore,
and was obliged to restrain himself the more, as they began to lay
the blame of the surgical failure upon his too great mental exertion,
and his uninterrupted, animated, nay, merry intercourse with us. It
is sufficient to say, that after so much trouble and suffering, the
artificial tear-channel would not form itself, and the communication
intended would not take place. It was necessary to let the wound heal
over in order that the disease should not become worse. If, now, during
the operation, one could but admire Herder's firmness under such
pains, his melancholy and even fierce resignation to the idea that he
must bear such a blot about him all his life, had about it something
truly sublime, by which he gained for ever the reverence of those
who saw and loved him. This disease, which disfigured so expressive
a countenance, must have been so much the more afflicting to him, as
he had become acquainted with an excellent lady in Darmstadt, and had
gained her affections. It may have been for this cause principally that
he submitted to the cure, in order, on his return, to appear more free,
more cheerful, and more handsome in the eyes of his half-betrothed, and
to unite himself more certainly and indissolubly with her. However, he
hastened away from Strasburg as soon as possible, and since his stay
had hitherto been as expensive as it was unpleasant, I borrowed a sum
of money for him, which he promised to refund by an appointed day. The
time passed without the arrival of the money. My creditor, indeed, did
not dun me; but I was for several weeks in embarrassment. At last the
letter and the money came, and even here he did not act unlike himself;
for, instead of thanks or an apology, his letter contained nothing but
satirical things in doggerel verse, which would have puzzled, if not
alienated, another; but it did not move me at all, for I had conceived
so great and powerful an idea of his worth that it absorbed everything
of an opposite nature which could have injured it.

One should never speak, publicly at least, of one's own faults, or
those of others, if one does not hope to effect some useful purpose
by it; on this account I will here insert certain remarks which force
themselves upon me.

Gratitude and ingratitude belong to those events which appear every
moment in the moral world, and about which men can never agree
among themselves. I usually distinguish between non-thankfulness,
ingratitude, and aversion from gratitude. The first is innate with
men, nay, created with them; for it arises from a happy volatile
forgetfulness of the repulsive as well as of the delightful, by which
alone the continuation of life is possible. Man needs such an infinite
quantity of previous and concurrent assistances for a tolerable
existence, that if he would always pay to the sun and the earth, to
God and nature, to ancestors and parents, to friends and companions,
the thanks due to them, he would have neither time nor feeling left to
receive and enjoy new benefits. But if the natural man suffers this
volatility to get the control in and over him, a cold indifference
gains more and more the ascendancy, and one at last regards one's
benefactor as a stranger, to whose injury, perhaps, anything may be
undertaken, provided it be advantageous to ourselves. This alone
can properly be called ingratitude, which results from the rudeness
into which the uncultivated nature must necessarily lose itself at
last. Aversion from gratitude, however, the rewarding of a benefit
by ill-natured and sullen conduct, is very rare, and occurs only in
eminent men, such as, with great natural gifts, and a presentiment
of them, being born in a lower rank of society or in a helpless
condition, must, from their youth upwards, force themselves along, step
by step, and receive, at every point, aids and supports, which are
often embittered and repulsive to them through the coarseness of their
benefactors, since that which they receive is earthly, while that
which, on the other hand, they give, is of a higher kind, so that what
is, strictly speaking, a compensation, is out of the question. Lessing,
with the fine knowledge of earthly things which fell to his share in
the best years of his life, has in one place bluntly, but cheerfully
expressed himself. Herder, on the contrary, constantly embittered his
finest days, both for himself and others, because he knew not how to
moderate, by strength of mind in later years, that ill-humour which had
necessarily seized him in youth.

[Side-note: Artificial Gratitude.]

One may well make this demand of oneself: for, to a man's capability of
cultivation, comes, with friendly aid, the light of nature, which is
always active in enlightening him about his condition; and generally,
in many moral points of culture, one should not construe the failings
too severely, nor look about after the most serious and remote means of
correcting them; for certain faults may be easily and even playfully
removed. Thus, for instance, by mere habit, we can excite gratitude in
ourselves, keep it alive, and even make it necessary to us.

In a biographical attempt, it is proper to speak of oneself. I am, by
nature, as little grateful as any man, and on forgetting the benefit
received, the violent feeling of a momentary disagreement could very
easily beguile me into ingratitude.

To obviate this, I accustomed myself, in the first place, with
everything that I possessed, to call to mind with pleasure how I came
by it, from whom I received it, whether it was by way of present,
exchange, or purchase, or in any other manner. I have accustomed
myself, in showing my collections, to mention the persons by whose
means I obtained each article, nay, even to do justice to the occasion,
to the accident, to the remotest cause and coincidence, by which
things which are dear and of value to me have become mine. That
which surrounds us thus receives a life; we see in it a spiritual
combination, full of love, reminding us of its origin; and, by thus
making past circumstances present to us, our momentary existence is
elevated and enriched, the originators of the gifts rise repeatedly
before the imagination, we connect with their image a pleasing
remembrance, ingratitude becomes impossible, and a return, on occasion,
becomes easy and desirable. At the same time, we are led to the
consideration of that which is not a possession palpable to the senses,
and we love to recapitulate to whom our higher endowments are to be
ascribed, and whence they take their date.

Before I turn my attention from that connexion with Herder, which was
so important and so rich in consequences for me, I find yet something
more to adduce. Nothing was more natural than that I should by degrees
become more and more reserved towards Herder, in communicating those
things which had hitherto contributed to my culture, but especially
such as still seriously occupied my attention at the moment. He had
destroyed my enjoyment of so much that I had loved before, and had
especially blamed me in the strongest manner for the pleasure I took
in _Ovid's Metamorphoses._ I might defend my favourite as I would, I
might say that, for a youthful fancy, nothing could be more delightful
than to linger in those cheerful and glorious regions with gods
and demi-gods, and to be a witness of their deeds and passions; I
might circumstantially quote that previously mentioned opinion of a
sober-minded man, and corroborate it by my own experience; all this,
according to Herder, went for nothing; there was no immediate truth,
properly so called, to be found in these poems; here was neither
Greece nor Italy, neither a primitive world nor a cultivated one,
everything was rather an imitation of what had already existed, and
a mannerised representation, such as could be expected only from an
over-cultivated man. And if at last I would maintain, that whatever an
eminent individual produces is also nature, and that always, in all
nations, ancient and modern, the poet alone has been the maker; this
was not allowed to pass, and I had to endure much on this account, nay,
I was almost disgusted with my Ovid by it; for there is no affection,
no habit so strong, that it can hold out in the long run against the
animadversions of eminent men in whom one places confidence. Something
always cleaves to us, and if one cannot love unconditionally, love is
already in a critical condition.

I most carefully concealed from him my interest in certain subjects
which had rooted themselves within me, and were, by little and
little, moulding themselves into poetic form. These were _Götz von
Berlichingen_ and _Faust._ The biography of the former had seized my
inmost heart. The figure of a rude, well-meaning self-helper, in a
wild anarchical time, awakened my deepest sympathy. The significant
puppet-show fable of the latter resounded and vibrated many-toned
within me. I had also wandered about in all sorts of science, and had
early enough been led to see its vanity. I had, moreover, tried all
sorts of ways in real life, and had always returned more unsatisfied
and troubled. Now these things, as well as many others, I carried about
with me, and delighted myself with them during my solitary hours,
but without writing anything down. But most of all, I concealed from
Herder my mystico-cabalistical chemistry, and everything relating to
it, although, at the same time, I was still very fond of secretly
busying myself in working it out more consistently than it had been
communicated to me. Of my poetical labours, I believe I laid before
him _Die Mitschuldigen_, but I do not recollect that on this account
I received either correction or encouragement on his part. Yet, with
all this, he remained what he was; whatever proceeded from him had an
important, if not a cheering effect, and even his handwriting exercised
a magic power over me. I do not remember having ever torn up or thrown
away one of his letters, or even a mere envelope from his hand; yet,
with my various changes of place and time, not one document of those
strange, foreboding, and happy days is left.

[Side-note: Herder's Influence on Jung.]

That Herder's power of attraction operated upon others as well as upon
me, I should scarcely mention, had I not to remark that it extended
itself particularly to JUNG, commonly called STILLING. The true, honest
striving of this man could not but deeply interest everybody who had
any feeling, and his susceptibility must have charmed into candour
every one who was in a condition to impart anything. Even Herder
behaved towards him with more forbearance than towards the rest of us:
for his counter-action always seemed to stand in relation with the
action exerted upon him. Jung's narrowness was accompanied by so much
good-will, his urgency with so much softness and earnestness, that a
man of intelligence could certainly not be severe against him, and a
benevolent man could not scoff at him, or turn him into ridicule. Jung
was also exhilarated to such a degree by Herder, that he felt himself
strengthened and advanced in all he did; even his affection for me
seemed to lose ground in the same ratio; yet we always remained good
companions, made allowances for each other from first to last, and
mutually rendered the most friendly services.

Let us now, however, withdraw ourselves from the sick chamber of
friendship, and from the general considerations which refer rather to
disorder than to health of mind; let us betake ourselves into the open
air, to the lofty and broad gallery of the minster, as if the time were
still present, when we young fellows often appointed an evening meeting
to greet the departing sun with brimming goblets. Here all conversation
was lost in the contemplation of the country: here sharpness of
eye-sight was put to the proof, and every one strove to perceive, nay,
plainly to distinguish, the most distant objects. Good telescopes were
employed to assist us, and one friend after another exactly pointed out
the spot which had become the most dear and precious to him; and I also
did not lack such a little spot, which, although it did not come out
with importance in the landscape, nevertheless more than all the rest
attracted me with an amiable magic. On these occasions the imagination
was excited by relating our adventures, and several little jaunts were
concerted, nay, often undertaken on the spur of the moment, of which
I will circumstantially relate only one instead of a number, since in
many respects it was of consequence to me.

With two worthy friends and fellow-boarders, Engelbach and Weyland,
both natives of Lower Alsace, I repaired on horseback to Zabern, where,
in the fine weather, the friendly little place smiled pleasantly upon
us. The sight of the bishop's castle awakened our admiration; the
extent, height, and splendour of a new set of stables bore witness to
the other comforts of the owner. The gorgeousness of the staircase
surprised us, the chambers and saloons we trode with reverence, only
the person of the cardinal, a little wreck of a man, whom we saw at
table, made a contrast. The view of the garden is splendid, and a
canal, three quarters of a league long, which leads straight up to the
middle of the castle, gives a high idea of the taste and resources of
the former possessors. We rambled up and down there, and enjoyed many
parts of this beautifully situated whole, which lies on the outskirts
of the magnificent plain of Alsace, at the foot of the Vosges.

After we had enjoyed ourselves at this clerical outpost of a royal
power, and had made ourselves comfortable in its region, we arrived
early next morning at a public work, which most nobly opens the
entrance into a mighty kingdom. Illumined by the beams of the rising
sun, the famous Zabern-stairs, a work of incredible labour, rose before
us. A road, built serpentine-wise over the most fearful crags, and
wide enough for three wagons abreast, leads up hill so gently, that
the ascent is scarcely perceptible. The hardness and smoothness of the
way, the flat-topped elevations on both sides for the foot-passengers,
the stone channels to lead off the mountain-water, all are executed as
neatly as artistically and durably, so that they afford a satisfactory
view. Thus one gradually arrives at Pfalzburg, a modern fortification.
It lies upon a moderate hill; the works are elegantly built on blackish
rocks, and of the same kind of stone, and the joinings being pointed
out with white mortar, show exactly the size of the square stones, and
give a striking proof of neat workmanship. We found the place itself,
as is proper for a fortress, regular, built of stone, and the church in
good taste. When we wandered through the streets--it was nine o'clock
on Sunday morning--we heard music; they were already waltzing in the
tavern to their hearts' content, and as the inhabitants did not suffer
themselves to be disturbed in their pleasures by the great scarcity,
nay, by the threatened famine, so also our youthful cheerfulness
was not at all troubled when the baker on the road refused us some
bread, and directed us to the tavern, where perhaps we might procure
provisions at the usual place.

[Side-note: Zabern-Buchsweiler.]

We now very willingly rode down the Zabern-stairs again to gaze at
this architectural wonder a second time, and to enjoy once more the
refreshing prospect over Alsace. We soon reached Buchsweiler, where
friend Weyland had prepared for us a good reception. To a fresh
youthful mind the condition of a small town is well suited; family
connexions are closer and more perceptible; domestic life, which, with
moderate activity, moves hither and thither between light official
duties, town business, agriculture and gardening, invites us to a
friendly participation; sociableness is necessary, and the stranger
finds himself very pleasantly situated in the limited circles, if the
disputes of the inhabitants, which in such places are more palpable, do
not everywhere come in contact with him. This little town was the chief
place of the county of Hanau-Lichtenberg, belonging to the Landgrave of
Darmstadt, under French sovereignty. A regency and board of officers
established here made the place an important centre-point of a very
beautiful and desirable principality. We easily forgot the unequal
streets and the irregular architecture of the place when we went out
to look at the old castle and the gardens, which are excellently laid
out on a hill. Numerous little pleasure-woods, a preserve for tame and
wild pheasants, and the relics of many similar arrangements, showed how
pleasant this little residence must formerly have been.

Yet all these views were surpassed by the prospect which met the eye,
when, from the neighbouring Baschberg, one looked over the perfectly
paradisiacal region. This height, wholly heaped together out of
different kinds of shells, attracted my attention for the first time
to such documents of antiquity; I had never before seen them together
in so great a mass. Yet the curious eye soon turned itself exclusively
to the landscape. You stand on the last landward[2] mountain-point;
towards the north lies a fruitful plain, interspersed with little
forests, and bounded by a stem low of mountains that stretches itself
westward towards Zaber, where the episcopal palace and the abbey of St.
John, lying a league beyond it, may be plainly recognised. Thence the
eye follows the more and more vanishing chain of the Vosges towards the
south. If you turn to the north-east you see the castle of Lichtenberg
upon a rock, and towards the south-east the eye has the boundless plain
of Alsace to scrutinize, which, afar off, withdraws itself from the
sight in the more and more misty landscape, until at last the Suabian
mountains melt away like shadows into the horizon.

Already in my limited wanderings through the world, I had remarked
how important it is in travelling to inquire after the course of the
waters, and even to ask with respect to the smallest brook, whither
in reality it runs. One thus acquires a general survey of every
stream-region, in which one happens to be, a conception of the heights
and depths which bear relation to each other, and by these leading
things, which assist the contemplation as well as the memory, extricates
oneself in the surest manner from the geological and political
labyrinth. With these observations, I took a solemn farewell of my
beloved Alsace, as the next morning we meant to turn our steps towards
Lorraine.

The evening passed away in familiar conversation, in which we tried to
cheer ourselves up under a joyless present, by remembrances of a better
past. Here, as in the whole of this small country, the name of the
last Count Reinhard von Hanau was blessed above all others; his great
understanding and aptitude had appeared in all his actions, and many
a beautiful memorial of his existence yet remained. Such men have the
advantage of being double benefactors: once to the present, which they
make happy, and then to the future, the feeling of which and courage
they nourish and sustain.

[Side-note: Saarbrück.]

Now as we turned ourselves north-westward into the mountains, passed
by Lützelstein, an old mountain tower, in a very hilly country, and
descended into the region of the Saar and the Moselle, the heavens
began to lower, as if they would render yet more sensible to us the
condition of the more rugged western country. The valley of the Saar,
where we first found Bockenheim, a small place, and saw opposite to it
Neusaarwerden, which is well-built, with a pleasure-castle, is bordered
on both sides by mountains which might be called melancholy, if at
their foot an endless succession of meadows and fields, called the
Huhnau, did not extend as far as Saaralbe, and beyond it, further than
the eye can reach. Great buildings, belonging to the former stables of
the Duke of Lorraine, here attract the eye; they are at present used
as a dairy, for which purpose, indeed, they are very well situated.
We passed through Saargemünd to Saarbrück, and this little residence
was a bright point in a land so rocky and woody. The town, small and
hilly, but well adorned by the last prince, makes at once a pleasing
impression, as the houses are all painted a greyish white, and the
different elevation of them affords a variegated view. In the middle
of a beautiful square, surrounded with handsome buildings, stands the
Lutheran church, on a small scale, but in proportion with the whole.
The front of the castle lies on the same level with the town; the back,
on the contrary, on the declivity of a steep rock. This has not only
been worked out terrace-fashion, to afford easy access to the valley,
but an oblong garden-plot has also been obtained below, by turning off
the stream on one side, and cutting away the rock on the other, after
which this whole space was lastly filled up with earth and planted. The
time of this undertaking fell in the epoch when they used to consult
the architects about laying out gardens, just as at present they call
in the aid of the landscape-painter's eye. The whole arrangement of
the castle, the costly and the agreeable, the rich and the ornamental,
betokened a life-enjoying owner, such as the deceased prince had
been; the present sovereign was not at home. President von Günderode
received us in the most obliging manner, and entertained us for three
days better than we had a right to expect. I made use of the various
acquaintance which we formed to instruct myself in many respects. The
life of the former prince, rich in pleasure, gave material enough for
conversation, as well as the various expedients which he hit upon to
make use of the advantages supplied by the nature of his land. Here I
was now properly initiated into the interest for mountain countries,
and the love for those economical and technical investigations which
have busied me a great part of my life, was first awakened within me.
We heard of the rich coal-pits at Dutweil, of the iron and alum works,
and even of a burning mountain, and we prepared ourselves to see these
wonders close.

We now rode through woody mountains, which must seem wild and dreary to
him who comes out of a magnificent fertile land, and which can attract
us only by the internal contents of its bosom. We were made acquainted
with one simple, and one complicated piece of machinery, within a short
distance of each other; namely, a scythe-smithy and a wire-drawing
factory. If one is pleased at the first because it supplies the place
of common hands, one cannot sufficiently admire the other, for it works
in a higher organic sense, from which understanding and consciousness
are scarcely to be separated. In the alum-works we made accurate
inquiries after the production and purifying of this so necessary
material, and when we saw great heaps of a white greasy, loose, earthy
matter, and asked the use of it, the labourers answered, smiling, that
it was the scum thrown up in boiling the alum, and that Herr Stauf had
it collected, as he hoped perchance to turn it to some profit. "Is Herr
Stauf alive yet?" exclaimed my companion in surprise. They answered
in the affirmative, and assured us that according to the plan of our
journey we should not pass far from his lonely dwelling.

[Side-note: Coal and Alum-Works.]

Our road now led up along the channels by which the alum-water is
conducted down, and the principal horizontal works (_stollen_), which
they call the "_landgrube_," and from which the famous Dutweil coals
are procured. These, when they are dry, have the blue colour of darkly
tarnished steel, and the most beautiful succession of rainbow tints
plays over the surface with every movement. The deep abysses of the
coal-levels, however, attracted us so much the less as their contents
lay richly poured out around us. We now reached the open mine, in which
the roasted alum-scales are steeped in lye, and soon after, a strange
occurrence surprised us, although we had been prepared. We entered into
a chasm and found ourselves in the region of the Burning Mountain.
A strong smell of sulphur surrounded us; one side of the cavity was
almost red-hot, covered with reddish stone burnt white; thick fumes
arose from the crevices, and we felt the heat of the ground through our
strong boot-soles. An event so accidental, for it is not known how this
place became ignited, affords a great advantage for the manufacture
of alum, since the alum-scales of which the surface of the mountain
consists, lie there perfectly roasted, and may be steeped in a short
time and very well. The whole chasm had arisen by the calcined scales
being gradually removed and used up. We clambered up out of this depth,
and were on the top of the mountain. A pleasant beech-grove encircled
the spot, which followed up to the chasm and extended itself on both
sides of it. Many trees stood already dried up, some were withering
near others, which, as yet quite fresh, felt no forebodings of that
fierce heat which was approaching and threatening their roots also.

Upon this space different openings were steaming, others had already
done smoking, and this fire had thus smouldered for ten years already
through old broken-up pits and horizontal shafts, with which the
mountain is undermined. It may, too, have penetrated to the clefts
through new coal-beds: for, some hundred paces further into the wood,
they had contemplated following up manifest indications of an abundance
of coal; but they had not excavated far before a strong smoke burst
out against the labourers and dispersed them. The opening was filled
up again, yet we found the place still smoking as we went on our way
past it to the residence of our hermit-like chemist. This lies amid
mountains and woods; the vallies there take very various and pleasing
windings, the soil round about is black and of the coal kind, and
strata of it frequently come in sight. A coal philosopher--_philosophus
per ignem_, as they said formerly--could scarcely have settled himself
more suitably.

We came before a small house, not inconvenient for a dwelling, and
found Herr Stauf, who immediately recognised my friend, and received
him with lamentations about the new government. Indeed we could
see from what he said, that the alum-works, as well as many other
well-meant establishments, on account of external and perhaps internal
circumstances also, did not pay their expenses; with much else of the
sort. He belonged to the chemists of that time, who, with a hearty
feeling for all that could be done with the products of nature, took
delight in abstruse investigations of trifles and secondary matters,
and with their insufficient knowledge were not dexterous enough to do
that from which properly economical and mercantile profit is to be
derived. Thus the use which he promised himself from that scum lay
very far in the distance; thus he had nothing to show but a cake of
sal-ammoniac, with which the Burning Mountain had supplied him.

Ready** and glad to communicate his complaints to a human ear, the
lean, decrepit little man, with a shoe on one foot and a slipper on
the other, and with stockings hanging down and repeatedly pulled up in
vain, dragged himself up the mountain to where the resin-house stands,
which he himself had erected, and now, with great grief, sees falling
to ruins. Here was found a connected row of furnaces, where coal was
to be cleansed of sulphur, and made fit for use in iron-works; but at
the same time they wished also to turn the oil and resin to account;
nay, they would not even lose the soot; and thus all failed together,
on account of the many ends in view. During the life-time of the former
prince, the business had been carried on in the spirit of an amateur,
and in hope; now they asked for the immediate use, which was not to be
shown.

After we left our adept to his solitude, we hastened--for it was now
late--to the glass-house in Friedrichsthal, where we became acquainted,
on our way, with one of the most important and most wonderful
operations of human ingenuity.

Nevertheless, some pleasant adventures, and a surprising firework at
night-fall, net far from Neukirch, interested us young fellows almost
more than these important experiences. For as a few nights before,
on the banks of the Saar, shining clouds of glow-worms hovered around
us, betwixt rock and thicket, so now the spark-spitting forges played
their sprightly firework towards us. We passed, in the depth of night,
the smelting-houses situated in the bottom of the valley, and were
delighted with the strange half-gloom of these dens of plank, which are
but dimly lighted by a little opening in the glowing furnace. The noise
of the water, and of the bellows driven by it, the fearful whizzing and
shrieking of the blast of air which, raging into the smelted ore, stuns
the ears and confuses the senses, drove us away, at last, to turn into
Neukirch, which is built up against the mountain.

But, notwithstanding all the variety and fatigue of the day, I could
find no rest here. I left my friend to a happy sleep, and sought
the hunting-seat, which lay still further up. It looks out far over
mountain and wood, the outlines of which were only to be recognised
against the clear night-sky, but the sides and depths of which were
impenetrable to my sight. This well-preserved building stood as empty
as it was lonely; no castellan, no huntsman was to be found. I sat
before the great glass doors upon the steps which run around the whole
terrace. Here, surrounded by mountains, over a forest-grown, dark soil,
which seemed yet darker in contrast with the clear horizon of a summer
night, with the glowing starry vault above me, I sat for a long time
by myself on the deserted spot, and thought I never had felt such a
solitude. How sweetly, then, was I surprised by the distant sound of a
couple of French horns, which at once, like the fragrance of balsam,
enlivened the peaceful atmosphere. Then there awakened within me the
image of a lovely being, which had retired into the background before
the motley objects of these travelling days, but which now unveiled
itself-more and more, and drove me from the spot back to my quarters,
where I made preparations to set off with the earliest.

[Side-note: Zwey-Brücken.]

The return was not used like the journey out. Thus we hurried
through Zwey-brücken (Deux-Ponts), which, as a beautiful and notable
residence, might well have deserved our attention. We cast a glance
upon the great, simple castle, on the extensive esplanades, regularly
planted with linden-trees, and very well adapted for the training of
race-horses, and on the large stables, and the citizens' houses which
the prince had built to be raffled for. All this, as well as the
costume and manners of the inhabitants, especially of the matrons
and maids, had reference to a distant connexion, and made plainly
visible the relation with Paris, from which, for a long time, nothing
transrhenane had been able to withdraw itself. We visited also the
ducal wine-cellars, situated before the city, which are extensive, and
furnished with large, well-made tuns. We went on further, and at last
found the country like that in the neighbourhood of Saarbrück. Between
wild and savage mountains are a few villages; one here gets rid of the
habit of looking about for corn. We mounted up, by the side of the
Hornbach, to Bitsch, which lies on the important spot where the waters
divide, and fall, a part into the Saar, a part into the Rhine. These
last were soon to attract us towards them. Yet we could not refuse our
attention to the little city of Bitsch, which very picturesquely winds
around the mountain, nor to the fortress, which lies above. This is
partly built on rocks, and partly hewn out of them. The subterraneous
chambers are particularly worthy of remark; here is not only space
sufficient for the abode of a number of men and cattle, but one even
lights upon large vaults for the drilling of troops, a mill, a chapel,
and whatever else could be required under-ground, provided the surface
were in a state of disturbance.

We now followed the down-rushing brooks through Bärenthal. The thick
forests on both the heights remain unused by the hand of man. Here
trunks of trees lie rotting on each other by thousands, and young
scions sprout up without number from their half-mouldered progenitors.
Here, in conversation with some companions on foot, the name Von
Dieterich again struck our ears, which we had often heard honourably
mentioned already in these woody regions. The activity and cleverness
of this man, his wealth, and the use and applications of it, all seemed
in proportion. He could with justice take delight in the acquisitions
which he increased, and enjoy the profits he secured. The more I saw
of the world, the more pleasure I took, not only in the universally
famous names, but in those also, especially, which were mentioned in
particular regions with reverence and love: and thus I easily learned
here, by a few questions, that Von Dieterich, earlier than others, had
known how to make successful use of the mountain treasures, iron, coal,
and wood, and had worked his way to an ever-growing opulence.

Niederbrunn, where we now arrived, was a new proof of this. He had
purchased this little place from the Count of Leiningen and other
part-owners, to erect important iron-works in the place.

Here in these baths, already founded by the Romans, floated around me
the spirit of antiquity, venerable relics of which, in fragments of
bas-reliefs and inscriptions, capitals and shafts, shone out strangely
towards me, from farm-houses, amidst household lumber and furniture.

[Side-note: Sesenheim.]

As we were ascending the adjacent Wasenburg also, I paid my respects
to a well-preserved inscription, which discharged a thankful vow to
Mercury, and is situated upon the great mass of rock which forms the
base of the hill on one side. The fortress itself lies on the last
mountain, looking from Bitsch towards Germany. It is the ruin of a
German castle built upon Roman remains. From the tower the whole of
Alsace was once more surveyed, and the conspicuous minster-spire
pointed out the situation of Strasburg. First of all, however, the
great forest of Hagenau extended itself, and the towers of this town
peered plainly from behind. I was attracted thither. We rode through
Reichshof, where Von Dieterich built an imposing castle, and after we
had contemplated from the hills near Niedermoder the pleasing course of
the little river Moder, by the forest of Hagenau, I left my friend on a
ridiculous coal-mine visitation, which, at Dutweil, might have been a
somewhat more serious business, and I then rode through Hagenau, on the
direct road--already indicated by my affection--to my beloved Sesenheim.

For all these views into a wild, mountain region, and then, again,
into a cheerful, fruitful, joyous land, could not rivet my mind's
eye, which was directed to an amiable, attractive object. This time,
also, the hither way seemed to me more charming than its opposite, as
it brought me again into the neighbourhood of a lady to whom I was
heartily devoted, and who deserved as much respect as love. But before
I lead my friends to her rural abode, let me be permitted to mention
a circumstance which contributed very much to enliven and enhance my
affection, and the satisfaction which it afforded me.

[Side-note: The "Vicar of Wakefield."]

How far I must have been behindhand in modern literature, may be
gathered from the mode of life which I led at Frankfort, and from
the studies to which I had devoted myself; nor could my residence in
Strasburg have furthered me in this respect. Now Herder came, and
together with his great knowledge brought many other aids, and the
later publications besides. Among these he announced to us the _Vicar
of Wakefield_ as an excellent work, with the German translation of
which he would make us acquainted by reading it aloud to us himself.

His method of reading was quite peculiar; whoever has heard him preach
will be able to form a notion of it. He delivered everything, this
romance included, in a serious and simple style, perfectly removed
from all dramatically imitative representation; he even avoided that
variety which is not only permitted, but even required, in an epical
delivery--a slight change of tone when different persons speak, by
which what every one says is brought into relief, and the actor is
distinguished from the narrator. Without being monotonous, Herder let
everything go on in the same tone, just as if nothing was present
before him, but all was merely historical; as if the shadows of this
poetic creation did not act livingly before him, but only glided gently
by. Yet this manner of delivery from his mouth had an infinite charm;
for, as he felt all most deeply, and knew how to estimate the variety
of such a work, so the whole merit of a production appeared purely and
the more clearly, as one was not disturbed by details sharply spoken
out, nor interrupted in the feeling which the whole was meant to
produce.

A Protestant country clergyman is, perhaps, the most beautiful
subject for a modern idyl; he appears, like Melchizedek, as priest
and king in one person. To the most innocent situation which can be
imagined on earth, to that of a husbandman, he is, for the most part,
united by similarity of occupation, as well as by equality in family
relationships; he is a father, a master of a family, an agriculturist,
and thus perfectly a member of the community. On this pure, beautiful,
earthly foundation, rests his higher calling: to him is it given to
guide men through life, to take care** of their spiritual education, to
bless them at all the leading epochs of their existence, to instruct,
to strengthen, to console them, and, if consolation is not sufficient
for the present, to call up and guarantee the hope of a happier future.
Imagine such a man, with pure human sentiments, strong enough not to
deviate from them under any circumstances, and by this already elevated
above the multitude, of whom one cannot expect purity and firmness;
give him the learning necessary for his office, as well as a cheerful,
equable activity, which is even passionate, as it neglects no moment
to do good,--and you will have him well endowed. But at the same time
add the necessary limitation, so that he must not only pause in a
small circle, but may also perchance pass over to a smaller; grant him
good-nature, placability, resolution, and everything else praiseworthy
that springs from a decided character, and over all this a cheerful
spirit of compliance, and a smiling toleration of his own failings and
those of others,--then you will have put together pretty well the image
of our excellent Wakefield.

[Side-note: The "Vicar of Wakefield."]

The delineation of this character on his course of life through
joys and sorrows, the ever-increasing interest of the story, by the
combination of the entirely natural with the strange and the singular,
make this novel one of the best which has ever been written; besides
this, it has the great advantage that it is quite moral, nay, in a pure
sense, Christian--represents the reward of a good will and perseverance
in the right, strengthens an unconditional confidence in God, and
attests the final triumph of good over evil; and all this without a
trace of cant or pedantry. The author was preserved from both of these
by an elevation of mind that shows itself throughout in the form of
irony, by which this little work must appear to us as wise as it is
amiable. The author, Dr. Goldsmith, has without question great insight
into the moral world, into its strength and its infirmities; but at the
same time he can thankfully acknowledge that he is an Englishman, and
reckon highly the advantages which his country and his nation afford
him. The family, with the delineation of which he occupies himself,
stands upon one of the last steps of citizen comfort, and yet comes in
contact with the highest; its narrow circle, which becomes still more
contracted, touches upon the great world through the natural and civil
course of things; this little skiff floats on the agitated waves of
English life, and in weal or woe it has to expect injury or help from
the vast fleet which sails around it.

I may suppose that my readers know this work, and have it in memory;
whoever hears it named for the first time here, as well as he who
is induced to read it again, will thank me. For the former, I would
merely make the cursory remark, that the vicar's wife is of that
good, busy sort, who allows herself and her own to want for nothing,
but who is also somewhat vain of herself and her own. There are two
daughters,--Olivia, handsome and more devoted to the external, and
Sophia, charming and more given to the internal; nor will I omit to
mention an industrious son, Moses, who is somewhat blunt and emulous of
his father.

If Herder could be accused of any fault in his reading aloud, it was
impatience; he did not wait until the hearer had heard and comprehended
a certain part of the progress, so as to be able to feel and think
correctly about it; hurrying on, he would see their effect at once,
and yet he was displeased even with this when it manifested itself. He
blamed the excess of feeling which overflowed from me more and more
at every step. I felt like a man, like a young man; everything was
living, true, and present before me. He, considering only the intrinsic
contents and form, saw clearly, indeed, that I was overpowered by the
subject-matter, and this he would not allow. Then Peglow's reflections,
which were not of the most refined, were still worse received; but he
was especially angry at our want of keenness in not seeing beforehand
the contrasts of which the author often makes use, and in suffering
ourselves to be moved and carried away by them without remarking the
oft-returning artifice. He would not pardon us for not seeing at once,
or at least suspecting at the very beginning, where Burchell is on the
point of discovering himself by passing over in his narration from the
third to the first person, that he himself is the lord of whom he is
speaking; and when, finally, we rejoiced like children at the discovery
and the transformation of the poor, needy wanderer, into a rich,
powerful lord, he immediately recalled the passage, which, according to
the author's plan, we had overlooked, and read us a powerful lecture
on our stupidity. It wall be seen from this that he regarded the work
merely as a production of art, and required the same of us, who were
yet wandering in that state where it is very allowable to let works of
art affect us like productions of nature.

I did not suffer myself to be at all perplexed by Herder's invectives;
for young people have the happiness or unhappiness, that, when once
anything has produced an effect on them, this effect must be wrought
out within themselves; from which much good, as well as much mischief,
arises. The above work had left with me a great impression, for which I
could not account, but properly speaking, I felt myself in harmony with
that ironical tone of mind which elevates itself above every object,
above fortune and misfortune, good and evil, death and life, and thus
attains to the possession of a truly poetical world. I could not,
indeed, become conscious of this until later; it was enough that it
gave me much to do at the moment; but I could by no means have expected
to be so soon transposed from this fictitious world into a similar real
one.

[Side-note: Pleasures of Travelling Incognito.]

My fellow-boarder, Weyland, who enlivened his quiet, laborious life by
visiting from time to time his friends and relations in the country
(for he was a native of Alsace), did me many services on my little
excursions, by introducing me to different localities and families,
sometimes in person, sometimes by recommendations. He had often spoken
to me about a country clergyman who lived near Drusenheim, six leagues
from Strasburg, in possession of a good benefice, with an intelligent
wife and a pair of amiable daughters. The hospitality and agreeableness
of this family were always highly extolled. It scarcely needed so much
to draw thither a young knight who had already accustomed himself to
spend all his leisure days and hours on horseback and in the open air.
We decided therefore upon this trip, and my friend had to promise that
on introducing me he would say neither good nor ill of me, but would
treat me with general indifference, and would allow me to make my
appearance clad, if not meanly, yet somewhat poorly and negligently. He
consented to this, and promised himself some sport from it.

It is a pardonable whim in men of consequence, to place their
exterior advantages in concealment now and then, so as to allow their
own internal human nature to operate with the greater purity. For
this reason the incognito of princes, and the adventures resulting
therefrom, are always highly pleasing; these appear disguised
divinities, who can reckon at double its value all the good offices
shown to them as individuals, and are in such a position that they
can either make light of the disagreeable or avoid it. That Jupiter
should be well pleased in his incognito with Philemon and Baucis, and
Henry the Fourth with his peasants after a hunting party, is quite
conformable to nature, and we like it well; but that a young man
without importance or name, should take it into his head to derive
some pleasure from an incognito, might be construed by many as an
unpardonable piece of arrogance. Yet since the question here is not of
such views and actions, so far as they are praiseworthy or blameable,
but so far as they can manifest themselves and actually occur, we
will on this occasion, for the sake of our own amusement, pardon the
youngster his self-conceit; and the more so, as I must here allege,
that from youth upwards, a love for disguising myself had been excited
in me even by my stem father.

This time, too, partly by some cast-off clothes of my own, partly by
some borrowed garments and by the manner of combing my hair, I had, if
not disfigured myself, yet at least decked myself out so oddly, that my
friend could not help laughing on the way, especially as I knew how to
imitate perfectly the bearing and gestures of such figures when they
sit on horseback, and which are called "Latin riders." The fine road,
the most splendid weather, and the neighbourhood of the Rhine, put
us in the best humour. At Drusenheim we stopped a moment, he to make
himself spruce, and I to rehearse my part, out of which I was afraid
I should now and then fall. The country here has the characteristics
of all the open, level Alsace. We rode on a pleasant foot-path over
the meadows, soon reached Sesenheim, left our horses at the tavern,
and walked leisurely towards the parsonage. "Do not be put out," said
Weyland, showing me the house from a distance, "because it looks like
an old miserable farm-house, it is so much the younger inside." We
stepped into the court-yard; the whole pleased me well: for it had
exactly that which is called picturesque, and which had so magically
interested me in Dutch art. The effect which time produces on all
human work was strongly perceptible. House, barn, and stable were just
at that point of dilapidation where, indecisive and doubtful between
preserving and rebuilding, one often neglects the one without being
able to accomplish the other.

[Side-note: The Pastor's Family.]

As in the village, so in the court-yard, all was quiet and deserted. We
found the father, a little man, wrapped up within himself, but friendly
notwithstanding, quite alone, for the family were in the fields. He
bade us welcome, and offered us some refreshment, which we declined.
My friend hurried away to look after the ladies, and I remained alone
with our host. "You are perhaps surprised," said he, "to find me
so miserably quartered in a wealthy village, and "with a lucrative
benefice; but," he continued, "this proceeds from irresolution. Long
since it has been promised me by the parish, and even by those in
higher places, that the house shall be rebuilt; many plans have been
already drawn, examined and altered, none of them altogether rejected,
and none carried into execution. This has lasted so many years, that
I scarcely know how to command my impatience." I made him an answer
such as I thought likely to cherish his hopes, and to encourage him
to pursue the affair more vigorously. Upon this he proceeded to
describe familiarly the personages on whom such matters depended, and
although he was no great delineator of character, I could nevertheless
easily comprehend how the whole business must have been delayed. The
confidential tone of the man was something peculiar; he talked to
me as if he had known me for ten years, while there was nothing in
his look from which I could have suspected that he was directing any
attention to me. At last my friend came in with the mother. She seemed
to look at me with quite different eyes. Her countenance was regular,
and the expression of it intelligent; she must have been beautiful in
her youth. Her figure was tall and spare, but not more so than became
her years, and when seen from behind, she had yet quite a youthful and
pleasing appearance. The elder daughter then came bouncing in briskly;
she inquired after Frederica, just as both the others had also done.
The father assured them that he had not seen her since all three had
gone out together. The daughter again went out at the door to look for
her sister; the mother brought us some refreshment, and Weyland, with
the old couple, continued the conversation, which referred to nothing
but known persons and circumstances; as, indeed, it is usually the
case when acquaintances meet after some length of time, that they make
inquiries, and mutually give each other information about the members
of a large circle. I listened, and now learned how much I had to
promise myself from this circle.

The elder daughter again came hastily back into the room, uneasy at
not having found her sister. They were anxious about her, and blamed
her for this or that bad habit; only the father said, very composedly,
"Let her alone; she has already come back!" At this instant she
really entered the door; and then truly a most charming star arose
in this rural heaven. Both daughters still wore nothing but German,
as they used to call it, and this almost obsolete national costume
became Frederica particularly well. A short, white, full skirt, with a
furbelow, not so long but that the neatest little feet were visible up
to the ankle; a tight white bodice and a black taffeta apron,--thus she
stood on the boundary between country girl and city girl. Slender and
light, she tripped along as if she had nothing to carry, and her neck
seemed almost too delicate for the large fair braids on her elegant
little head. From cheerful blue eyes she looked very plainly round, and
her pretty turned-up nose peered as freely into the air as if there
could be no care in the world; her straw hat hung on her arm, and thus,
at the first glance, I had the delight of seeing her, and acknowledging
her at once in all her grace and loveliness.

I now began to act my character with moderation, half ashamed to play
a joke on such good people, whom I had time enough to observe: for the
girls continued the previous conversation, and that with passion and
some display of temper. All the neighbours and connexions were again
brought forward, and there seemed, to my imagination, such a swarm
of uncles and aunts, relations, cousins, comers, goers, gossips and
guests, that I thought myself lodged in the liveliest world possible.
All the members of the family had spoken some words with me, the mother
looked at me every time she came in or went out, but Frederica first
entered into conversation with me, and as I took up and glanced through
some music that was lying around, she asked me if I played also? When I
answered in the affirmative, she requested me to perform something; but
the father would not allow this, for he maintained that it was proper
to serve the guest first with some piece of music or a song.

She played several things with some readiness, in the style which one
usually hears in the country, and on a harpsichord, too, that the
schoolmaster should have tuned long since, if he had only had time. She
was now to sing a song also, a certain tender-melancholy affair; but
she did not succeed in it. She rose up and said, smiling, or rather
with that touch of serene joy which ever reposed, on her countenance,
"If I sing badly, I cannot lay the blame on the harpsichord or the
schoolmaster; but let us go out of doors; then you shall hear my
Alsatian and Swiss songs; they sound much better."

[Side-note: Comparison with the "Vicar of Wakefield."]

During supper, a notion which had already struck me, occupied me to
such a degree, that I became meditative and silent, although the
liveliness of the elder sister, and the gracefulness of the younger,
shook me often enough out of my contemplations. My astonishment at
finding myself so actually in the Wakefield family was beyond all
expression. The father, indeed, could not be compared with that
excellent man; but where will you find his like? On the other hand, all
the dignity which is peculiar to that husband, here appeared in the
wife. One could not see her without at the same time reverencing and
fearing her. In her were remarked the fruits of a good education; her
demeanour was quiet, easy, cheerful, and inviting.

If the elder daughter had not the celebrated beauty of Olivia, yet she
was well-made, lively, and rather impetuous; she everywhere showed
herself active, and lent a helping hand to her mother in all things. To
put Frederica in the place of Primrose's Sophia was not difficult; for
little is said of the latter, it is only taken for granted that she is
amiable; and this girl was amiable indeed. Now as the same occupation
and the same situation, wherever they may occur, produce similar, if
not the same effects, so here too many things were talked about, many
things happened, which had already taken place in the Wakefield family.
But when at last a younger son, long announced and impatiently expected
by the father, at last sprang into the room, and boldly sat himself
down by us, taking but little notice of the guests, I could scarcely
help exclaiming, "Moses, are you here too!"

The conversation at table extended my insight into this country and
family circle, since the discourse was about various droll incidents
which had happened now here, now there. Frederica, who sat by me,
thence took occasion to describe to me different localities which
it was worth while to visit. As one little story always calls forth
another, I was able to mingle so much the better in the conversation,
and to relate similar incidents, and as, besides this, a good country
wine was by no means spared, I stood in danger of slipping out of my
character, for which reason my more prudent friend took advantage of
the beautiful moonlight, and proposed a walk, which was approved at
once. He gave his arm to the elder, I to the younger, and thus we went
through the wide field, paying more attention to the heavens above us
than to the earth, which lost itself in extension around us. There
was, however, nothing of moonshine in Frederica's discourse; by the
clearness with which she spoke she turned night into day, and there
was nothing in it which would have indicated or excited any feeling,
except that her expressions related more than hitherto to me, since she
represented to me her own situation, as well as the neighbourhood and
her acquaintances, just as far as I should be acquainted with them; for
she hoped, she added, I would make no exception, and would visit them
again, as all strangers had willingly done who had once stopped with
them.

It was very pleasant to me to listen silently to the description which
she gave of the little world in which she moved, and of the persons
whom she particularly valued. She thereby imparted to me a clear, and,
at the same time, such an amiable idea of her situation, that it had
a very strange effect on me; for I felt at once a deep regret that I
had not lived with her sooner, and at the same time a truly painful
envious feeling towards all who had hitherto had the good fortune to
surround her. I at once watched closely, as if I had a right to do so,
all her descriptions of men, whether they appeared under the names of
neighbours, cousins, or gossips, and my conjectures inclined now this
way, now that; but how could I have discovered anything in my complete
ignorance of all the circumstances? She at last became more and more
talkative, and I more and more silent. It was so pleasant to listen to
her, and as I heard only her voice, while the form of her countenance,
as well as the rest of the world, floated dimly in the twilight, it
seemed to me as if I could see into her heart, which I could not but
find very pure, since it unbosomed itself to me in such unembarrassed
loquacity.

[Side-note: Comparison with the "Vicar of Wakefield."]

When my companion retired with me into the guest-chamber, which was
prepared for us, he at once, with self-complacency, broke out into
pleasant jesting, and took great credit to himself for having surprised
me so much with the similarity to the Primrose family. I chimed in
with him by showing myself thankful. "Truly," cried he, "the story is
quite complete. This family may very well be compared to that, and the
gentleman in disguise here may assume the honour of passing for Mr.
Burchell; moreover, since scoundrels are not so necessary in common
life as in novels, I will for this time undertake the _rôle_ of the
nephew, and behave myself better than he did." However, I immediately
changed this conversation, pleasant as it might be to me, and asked
him, before all things, on his conscience, if he had not really
betrayed me? He answered me, "No!" and I could believe him. They had
rather inquired, said he, after the merry table-companion who boarded
at the same house with him in Strasburg, and of whom they had been told
all sorts of preposterous stuff. I now went to other questions: Had she
ever been in love? Was she now in love? Was she engaged? He replied
to all in the negative. "In truth," replied I, "such a cheerfulness
by nature is inconceivable to me. Had she loved and lost, and again
recovered herself, or had she been betrothed,--in both these cases I
could account for it."

Thus we chatted together far into the night, and I was awake again at
the dawn. My desire to see her once more seemed unconquerable; but
while I dressed myself, I was horrified at the accursed wardrobe I had
so wantonly selected. The further I advanced in putting on my clothes,
the meaner I seemed in my own eyes; for everything had been calculated
for just this effect. My hair I might perchance have set to rights; but
when at last I forced myself into the borrowed, worn-out grey coat,
and the short sleeves gave me the most absurd appearance, I fell the
more decidedly into despair, as I could see myself only piecemeal, in a
little looking-glass since one part always looked more ridiculous than
the other.

During this toilette my friend awoke, and with the satisfaction of a
good conscience, and in the feeling of pleasurable hope for the day,
looked out at me from the quilted silk coverlet. I had for a long time
already envied him his fine clothes, as they hung over the chair, and
had he been of my size, I would have carried them off before his eyes,
changed my dress outside, and hurrying into the garden, left my cursed
husk for him; he would have had good-humour enough to put himself into
my clothes, and the tale would have found a merry ending early in the
morning. But that was not now to be thought of, no more was any other
feasible accommodation. To appear again before Frederica in the figure
in which my friend could give me out as a laborious and accomplished
but poor student of theology,--before Frederica, who the evening before
had spoken so friendly to my disguised self,--that was altogether
impossible. There I stood, vexed and thoughtful, and summoned all my
power of invention; but it deserted me! But now when he, comfortably
stretched out, after fixing his eyes upon me for a while, all at once
burst out into a loud laugh, and exclaimed, "No! it is true, you do
look most cursedly!" I replied impetuously, "And I know what I will do.
Good bye, and make my excuses!" "Are you mad?" cried he, springing**
out of bed and trying to detain me. But I was already out of the door,
down the stairs, out of the house and yard, off to the tavern; in an
instant my horse was saddled, and I hurried away in mad vexation,
galloping towards Drusenheim, then through that place, and still
further on.

As I now thought myself in safety, I rode more slowly, and now first
felt how infinitely against my will I was going away. But I resigned
myself to my fate, made present to my mind the promenade of yesterday
evening with the greatest calmness, and cherished the secret hope of
seeing her soon again. But this quiet feeling soon changed itself again
into impatience, and I now determined to ride rapidly into the city,
change my dress, take a good, fresh horse, since then, as my passion
made me believe, I could at all events return before dinner, or, as
was more probable, to the dessert, or towards evening, and beg my
forgiveness.

[Side-note: The Exchange of Clothes.]

I was just about to put spurs to my horse to execute this plan, when
another, and, as seemed to me, a very happy thought, passed through
my mind. In the tavern at Drusenheim, the day before, I had noticed
a son of the landlord very nicely dressed, who, early this morning,
being busied about his rural arrangements, had saluted me from his
court-yard. He was of my figure, and had for the moment reminded me of
myself. No sooner thought than done! My horse was hardly turned round,
when I found myself in Drusenheim; I brought him into the stable, and
in a few words made the fellow my proposal, namely, that he should lend
me his clothes, as I had something merry on foot at Sesenheim. I had no
need to talk long; he agreed to the proposition with joy, and praised
me for wishing to make some sport for the _Mamsells_; they were, he
said, such capital people, especially Mamselle Riekchen,[3] and the
parents, too, liked to see everything go on merrily and pleasantly.
He considered me attentively, and as from my appearance he might have
taken me for a poor starveling, he said, "If you wish to insinuate
yourself, this is the right way." In the meanwhile we had already
proceeded far in our toilette, and properly speaking he should not
have trusted me with his holiday clothes on the strength of mine; but
he was honest-hearted, and, moreover, had my horse in his stable. I
soon stood there smart enough, gave myself a consequential air, and my
friend seemed to regard his counterpart with complacency. "Topp,[4] Mr.
Brother!" said he, giving me his hand, which I grasped heartily, "don't
come too near my girl; she might make a mistake!"

My hair, which had now its full growth again, I could part at top,
much like his, and as I looked at him repeatedly, I found it comical
moderately to imitate his thicker eyebrows with a burnt cork, and
bring mine nearer together in the middle, so that with my enigmatical
intentions, I might make myself an external riddle likewise. "Now have
you not," said I, as he handed me his be-ribboned hat, "something or
other to be done at the parsonage, that I might announce myself there
in a natural manner?" "Good!" replied he, "but then you must wait two
hours yet. There is a woman confined at our house; I will offer to take
the cake to the parson's wife,[5] and you may carry it over. Pride must
pay its penalty, and so must a joke." I resolved to wait, but these
two hours were infinitely long, and I was dying of impatience when
the third hour passed before the cake came out of the oven. At last I
got it quite hot, and hastened away with my credentials in the most
beautiful sunshine, accompanied for a distance by my counterpart, who
promised to come after me in the evening and bring me my clothes. This,
however, I briskly declined, and stipulated that I should deliver up to
him his own.

[Side-note: Goethe's Disguise.]

I had not skipped far with my present, which I carried in a neat
tied-up napkin, when, in the distance, I saw my friend coming towards
me with the two ladies. My heart was uneasy, which was certainly
unsuitable under this jacket. I stood still, took breath, and tried to
consider how I should begin; and now I first remarked that the nature
of the ground was very much in my favour; for they were walking on the
other side of the brook, which, together with the strips of meadow
through which it ran, kept the two footpaths pretty far apart. When
they were just opposite to me, Frederica, who had already perceived
me long before, cried, "George, what are you bringing there?" I was
clever enough to cover my face with my hat, which I took off, while I
held up the loaded napkin high in the air. "A christening cake!" cried
she at that; "how is your sister?" "Well,"[6] said I, for I tried to
talk in a strange dialect, if not exactly in the Alsatian. "Carry it
to the house!" said the elder, "and if you do not find my mother, give
it to the maid; but wait for us, we shall soon be back.--do you hear?"
I hastened along my path in the joyous feeling of the best hope that,
as the beginning was so lucky, all would go off well, and I had soon
reached the parsonage. I found nobody either in the house or in the
kitchen; I did not wish to disturb the old gentleman, whom I might
suppose busy in the study; I therefore sat down on the bench before the
door, with the cake beside me, and pressed my hat upon my face.

I cannot easily recall a pleasanter sensation. To sit again on this
threshold, over which, a short time before, I had blundered out in
despair; to have seen her already again, to have already heard again
her dear voice, so soon after my chagrin had pictured to me a long
separation, every moment to be expecting herself and a discovery, at
which my heart throbbed, and yet, in this ambiguous case, a discovery
without shame; for at the very beginning it was a merrier prank than
any of those they had laughed at so much yesterday. Love and necessity
are the best masters; they both acted together here, and their pupil
was not unworthy of them.

[Side-note: "Frederica's Repose."]

But the maid came stepping out of the barn. "Now! did the cakes turn
out well?" cried she to me; "how is your sister?" "All right," said
I, and pointed to the cake without looking up. She took up the napkin
and muttered, "Now, what's the matter with you to-day again? Has
Barbchen[7] been looking again at somebody else? Don't let us suffer
for that! You will make a happy couple if you carry on so!" As she
spoke pretty loud, the pastor came to the window and asked what was
the matter. She showed him to me; I stood up and turned myself towards
him; but still kept the hat over my face. When he had spoken somewhat
friendly to me, and had asked me to remain, I went towards the garden,
and was just going in, when the pastor's wife, who was entering the
courtyard gate, called to me. As the sun shone right in my face, I one
more availed myself of the advantage which my hat afforded me, and
greeted her by scraping a leg; but she went into the house after she
had bidden me not to go away without eating something. I now walked up
and down in the garden; everything had hitherto had the best success,
yet I breathed hard when I reflected that the young people now would
soon return. But the mother unexpectedly stepped up to me, and was
just going to ask me a question, when she looked me in the face, so
that I could not conceal myself any longer, and the words stuck in
her throat. "I am looking for George," said she, after a pause, "and
whom do I find? Is it you, young sir? How many forms have you, then?"
"In earnest only one," replied I; "in sport as many as you like."
"Which sport I will not spoil," smiled she; "go out behind the garden
into the meadow until it strikes twelve, then come back, and I shall
already have contrived the joke." I did so; but when I was beyond
the hedges of the village gardens, and was going along the meadows,
towards me some country people came by the footpath, and put me in
some embarrassment. I therefore turned aside into a little wood, which
crowned an elevation quite near, in order to conceal myself there till
the appointed time. Yet how strangely did I feel when I entered it; for
there appeared before me a neat place, with benches, from every one
of which was a pretty view of the country. Here was the village and
the steeple, here Drusenheim, and behind it the woody islands of the
Rhine; in the opposite direction was the Vosgian mountain range, and at
last the minster of Strasburg. These different heaven-bright pictures
were set in bushy frames, so that one could see nothing more joyous
and pleasing. I sat down upon one of the benches, and noticed on the
largest tree an oblong little board with the inscription, "Frederica's
Repose." It never occurred to me that I might have come to disturb this
repose; for a budding passion has this beauty about it, that, as it is
unconscious of its origin, neither can it have any thought of an end,
nor, while it feels itself glad and cheerful, have any presentiment
that it may also create mischief.

I had scarcely had time to look about me and was losing myself in sweet
reveries, when I heard somebody coming; it was Frederica herself.
"George, what are you doing here?" she cried from a distance. "Not
George!" cried I, running towards her, "but one who craves forgiveness
of you a thousand rimes." She looked at me with astonishment, but soon
collected herself, and said, after fetching her breath more deeply,
"You abominable man, how you frighten me!" "The first disguise has
led me into the second," exclaimed I; "the former would have been
unpardonable if I had only known in any degree to whom I was going;
but this one you will certainly forgive, for it is the shape of
persons whom you treat so kindly." Her pale cheeks had coloured up
with the most beautiful rose-red. "You shall not be worse off than
George, at any rate! But let us sit down! I confess the fright has
gone into my limbs." I sat down beside her, exceedingly agitated.
"We know everything already, up to this morning, from your friend,"
said she, "now do you tell me the rest." I did not let her say that
twice, but described to her my horror at my yesterday's figure, and my
rushing out of the house, so comically, that she laughed heartily and
graciously; then I went on to what followed, with all modesty, indeed,
yet passionately enough, so that it might have passed for a declaration
of love in historical form. At last I solemnized my pleasure at finding
her again, by a kiss upon her hand, which she suffered to remain in
mine. If she had taken upon herself the expense of the conversation
during yesterday evening's moonlight walk, I now, on my part, richly
repaid the debt. The pleasure of seeing her again, and being able to
say to her everything that I had yesterday kept back, was so great
that, in my eloquence, I did not remark how meditative and silent she
was. Once more she deeply fetched her breath, and over and over again I
begged her forgiveness for the fright which I had caused her. How long
we may have sat I know not; but at once we heard some one call. It was
the voice of her sister. "That will be a pretty story," said the dear
girl, restored to her perfect cheerfulness; "she is coming hither on
my side," she added, bending so as half to conceal me; "turn yourself
away, so that you may not be recognised at once." The sister entered
the place, but not alone; Weyland was with her, and both, when they saw
us, stood still, as if petrified.

If we should all at once see a flame burst out violently from a quiet
roof, or should meet a monster whose deformity was at the same time
revolting and fearful, we should not be struck with such a fierce
horror as that which seizes us when, unexpectedly, we see with our own
eyes what we have believed morally impossible. "What is this?" cried
the elder, with the rapidity of one who is frightened; "what is this?
you with George, hand-in-hand! How am I to understand this?" "Dear
sister," replied Frederica, very doubtfully, "the poor fellow,--he
is begging something of me; he has something to beg of you, too,
but you must forgive him beforehand." "I do not understand--I do
not comprehend--" said her sister, shaking her head and looking at
Weyland, who, in his quiet way, stood by in perfect tranquillity, and
contemplated the scene without any kind of expression. Frederica arose
and drew me after her. "No hesitating!" cried she; "pardon begged and
granted!" "Now do!" said I, stepping pretty near the elder; "I have
need of pardon!" She drew back, gave a loud shriek, and was covered
with blushes; she then threw herself down on the grass, laughed
immoderately, and seemed as if she would never have done. Weyland
smiled as if pleased, and cried, "You are a rare youth!" Then he shook
my hand in his. He was not usually liberal with his caresses, but his
shake of the hand had something hearty and enlivening about it; yet he
was sparing of this also.

After somewhat recovering and collecting ourselves, we set out on our
return to the village. On the way I learned how this singular meeting
had been occasioned. Frederica had at last parted from the promenaders
to rest herself in her little nook for a moment before dinner, and when
the other two came back to the house, the mother had sent them to call
Frederica with as great haste as possible, because dinner was ready.

The elder sister manifested the most extravagant delight, and when
she learned that the mother had already discovered the secret, she
exclaimed, "Now we have still to deceive my father, my brother, the
servant-man and the maid." When we were at the garden-hedge, Frederica
insisted upon going first into the house with my friend. The maid was
busy in the kitchen-garden, and Olivia (so let the elder sister be
named here) called out to her, "Stop; I have something to tell you!"
She left me standing by the hedge, and went to the maid. I saw that
they were speaking very earnestly. Olivia represented to her that
George had quarrelled with Barbara, and seemed desirous of marrying
her. The lass was not displeased at this; I was now called, and was
to confirm what had been said. The pretty, stout girl cast down her
eyes, and remained so until I stood quite near before her. But when,
all at once, she perceived the strange face, she too gave a loud scream
and ran away. Olivia bade me run after her and hold her fast, so that
she should not get into the house and make a noise; while she herself
wished to go and see how it was with her father. On the way Olivia
met the servant-boy, who was in love with the maid; I had in the mean
time hurried after the maid, and held her fast. "Only think! what good
luck!" cried Olivia; "it's all over with Barbara, and George marries
Liese." "That I have thought for a long while," said the good fellow,
and remained standing in an ill-humour.

[Side-note: Goethe's Disguise.]

I had given the maid to understand that all we had to do was to
deceive the father. We went up to the lad, who turned away and tried
to withdraw; but Liese brought him back, and he, too, when he was
undeceived, made the most extraordinary gestures. We went together to
the house. The table was covered, and the father was already in the
room. Olivia, who kept me behind her, stepped to the threshold and
said, "Father, have you any objection to George dining with us today?
but you must let him keep his hat on." "With all my heart!" said the
old man, "but why such an unusual thing? Has he hurt himself?" She led
me forward as I stood with my hat on. "No!" said she, leading me into
the room, "but he has a bird-cage under it, and the birds might fly
out and make a terrible fuss; for there are nothing but wild ones."
The father was pleased with the joke, without precisely knowing what
it meant. At this instant she took off my hat, made a scrape, and
required me to do the same. The old man looked at me and recognised
me, but was not put out of his priestly self-possession. "Aye, aye,
Mr. Candidate!" exclaimed he, raising a threatening finger at me;
"you have changed saddles very quickly, and in the night I have lost
an assistant, who yesterday promised me so faithfully that he would
often mount my pulpit on week-days." He then laughed heartily, bade
me welcome, and we sat down to table. Moses came in much later; for,
as the youngest spoiled child, he had accustomed himself not to hear
the dinner-bell. Besides, he took very little notice of the company,
scarcely even when he contradicted them. In order to be more sure of
him, they had placed me, not between the sisters, but at the end of the
table, where George often used to sit. As he came in at the door behind
me, he slapped me smartly on the shoulder, and said, "Good dinner to
you, George!" "Many thanks, squire!" replied I. The strange voice and
the strange face startled him. "What say you?" cried Olivia; "does he
not look very like his brother?" "Yes, from behind," replied Moses,
who managed to recover his composure immediately, "like all folks."
He did not look at me again, and merely busied himself with zealously
devouring the dishes, to make up for lost time. Then, too, he thought
proper to rise on occasion and find something to do in the yard and
the garden. At the dessert the real George came in, and made the whole
scene still more lively. They began to banter him for his jealousy,
and would not praise him for getting rid of a rival in me; but he was
modest and clever enough, and, in a half-confused manner, mixed up
himself, his sweetheart, his counterpart, and the _Mamsells_ with each
other, to such a degree, that at last nobody could tell about whom he
was talking, and they were but too glad to let him consume in peace a
glass of wine and a bit of his own cake.

[Side-note: The "New Melusina."]

At table there was some talk about going to walk; which, however, did
not suit me very well in my peasant's clothes. But the ladies, early
on that day already, when they learned who had run away in such a
desperate hurry, had remembered that a fine hunting-coat (_Pekesche_)
of a cousin of theirs, in which, when there, he used to go sporting,
was hanging in the clothes-press. I, however, declined it, externally
with all sorts of jokes, but internally with a feeling of vanity, not
wishing, as the cousin, to disturb the good impression I had made as
the peasant. The father had gone to take his afternoon-nap; the mother,
as always, was busy about her housewifery. But my friend proposed
that I should tell them some story, to which I immediately agreed.
We went into a spacious arbour, and I gave them a tale which I have
since written out under the title of _The New Melusina._[8] It bears
about the same relation to _The New Paris_ as the youth bears to the
boy, and I would insert it here, were I not afraid of injuring, by odd
plays of fancy, the rural reality and simplicity which here agreeably
surround us. Enough: I succeeded in gaining the reward of the inventors
and narrators of such productions, namely, in awakening curiosity, in
fixing the attention, in provoking overhasty solutions of impenetrable
riddles, in deceiving expectations, in confusing by the more wonderful
which came into the place of the wonderful, in arousing sympathy and
fear, in causing anxiety, in moving, and at last, by the change of
what was apparently earnest into an ingenious and cheerful jest, in
satisfying the mind, and in leaving the imagination materials for new
images, and the understanding materials for further reflection.

Should any one hereafter read this tale in print, and doubt whether it
could have produced such an effect, let him remember that, properly
speaking, man is only called upon to act in the present. Writing is an
abuse of language, reading silently to oneself is a pitiful substitute
for speech. Man effects all he can upon man by his personality,
youth is most powerful upon youth, and hence also arise the purest
influences. It is these which enliven the world, and allow it neither
morally nor physically to perish. I had inherited from my father a
certain didactic loquacity: from my mother the faculty of representing,
clearly and forcibly, everything that the imagination can produce
or grasp, of giving a freshness to known stories, of inventing and
relating others, nay, of inventing in the course of narration. By my
paternal endowment I was for the most part annoying to the company;
for who likes to listen to the opinions and sentiments of another,
especially a youth, whose judgment, from defective experience, always
seems insufficient? My mother, on the contrary, had thoroughly
qualified me for social conversation. The emptiest tale has in itself
a high charm for the imagination, and the smallest quantity of solid
matter is thankfully received by the understanding.

By such recitals, which cost me nothing, I made myself beloved by
children, excited and delighted youth, and drew upon myself the
attention of older persons. But in society, such as it commonly is,
I was soon obliged to stop these exercises, and I have thereby lost
but too much of the enjoyment of life and of free mental advancement.
Nevertheless both these parental gifts accompanied me throughout my
whole life, united with a third, namely, the necessity of expressing
myself figuratively and by comparisons. In consideration of these
peculiarities, which the acute and ingenious Doctor Gall discovered
in me according to his theory, he assured me that I was, properly
speaking, born for a popular orator. At this disclosure I was not a
little alarmed; for if it had been here well founded, everything that
I undertook would have proved a failure, from the fact that with my
nation there was nothing to harangue about.


[1] The German word is "Koth," and the whole object of the line is
to introduce a play on the words "Göthe," "Götter," "Gothen," and
"Koth."--_Trans._

[2] That is, towards _Germany_, Germany is _the Land_ by
pre-eminence.--_American Note_.

[3] Abbreviation for Frederica.--_Trans._

[4] The exclamation used on striking a bargain. It is, we believe,
employed by some trades in England.--_Trans._ [
F] The general custom of the country villages in Protestant Germany on
such interesting occasions.--_American Note._

[6] In the original his answer is "Guet," fur "Gut."--_Trans._

[7] Diminutive of Barbara.--_Trans._

[8] This is introduced in _Wilhelm Meister's Wanderjahre._--_Trans._




PART THE THIRD.

CARE IS TAKEN THAT TREES DO NOT GROW INTO THE SKY.

ELEVENTH BOOK.


After I had, in that bower of Sesenheim, finished my tale, in which the
ordinary and the impossible were so agreeably alternated, I perceived
that my hearers, who had already shown peculiar sympathy, were now
enchanted in the highest degree by my singular narrative. They pressed
me urgently to write down the tale, that they might often repeat it
by reading it among themselves, and to others. I promised this the
more willingly, as I thus hoped to gain a pretext for repeating my
visit, and for an opportunity of forming a closer connexion. The party
separated for a moment, and all were inclined to feel that after a
day spent in so lively a manner, the evening might fall rather flat.
From this anxiety I was freed by my friend, who asked permission to
take leave at once, in the name of us both, because, as an industrious
academical citizen, regular in his studies, he wished to pass the night
at Drusenheim, and to be early in the morning at Strasburg.

We both reached our night-quarters in silence; I, because I felt a
grapple on my heart, which drew me back; he, because he had something
else on his mind, which he told me as soon as we had arrived. "It is
strange," he began, "that you should just hit upon this tale. Did not
you remark that it made quite a peculiar impression?" "Nay," answered
I, "how could I help observing that the elder one laughed more than
was consistent at certain passages, that the younger one shook her
head, that all of you looked significantly at each other, and that
you yourself were nearly put out of countenance. I do not deny that I
almost felt embarrassed myself, for it struck me that it was perhaps
improper to tell the dear girls a parcel of stuff, of which they had
better been ignorant, and to give them such a bad opinion of the
male sex as they must naturally have formed from the character of
the hero." "You have not hit it at all," said he, "and, indeed, how
should you? These dear girls are not so unacquainted with such matters
as you imagine, for the great society around them gives occasion for
many reflections; and there happens to be, on the other side of the
Rhine, exactly such a married pair as you describe, allowing a little
for fancy and exaggeration; the husband just as tall, sturdy, and
heavy,--the wife so pretty and dainty, that he could easily hold her
in his hand. Their mutual position in other respects, their history
altogether, so exactly accords with your tale, that the girls seriously
asked me whether you knew the persons, and described them in jest. I
assured them that you did not, and you will do well to let the tale
remain unwritten. With the assistance of delays and pretexts, we may
soon find an excuse."

I was much astonished, for I had thought of no couple on this or the
other side of the Rhine; nay, I could not have stated how I came by the
notion. In thought I liked to sport with such pleasantries, without
any particular reference, and I believed that** if I narrated them, it
would be the same with others.

When I returned to my occupations in the city, I felt them more than
usually wearisome, for a man born to activity forms plans too extensive
for his capacity, and overburdens himself with labour. This goes on
very well till some physical or moral impediment comes in the way, and
clearly shows the disproportion of the powers to the undertaking.

[Side-note: Return to Strasburg.]

I pursued jurisprudence with as much diligence as was required to
take my degree with some credit. Medicine charmed me, because it
showed nature, if it did not unfold it on every side; and to this I
was attached by intercourse and habit. To society I was obliged to
devote some time and attention; for in many families I had fallen in
for much both of love and honour. All this might have been carried
on, had not that which Herder had inculcated pressed upon me with an
infinite weight. He had torn down the curtain which concealed from me
the poverty of German literature; he had ruthlessly destroyed so many
of my prejudices; in the sky of my fatherland there were few stars of
importance left, when he had treated all the rest as so many transient
candle-snuffs; nay, my own hopes and fancies respecting myself he had
so spoiled, that I began to doubt my own capabilities. At the same
time, however, he dragged me on to the noble broad way which he himself
was inclined to tread, drew my attention to his favourite authors, at
the head of whom stood Swift and Hamann, and shook me up with more
force than he had bound me down. To this manifold confusion was now
added an incipient passion, which, while it threatened to absorb me,
might indeed draw me from other relations, but could scarcely elevate
me above them. Then came besides, a corporeal malady, which made me
feel after dinner as if my throat was closed up, and of which I did not
easily get rid, till afterwards, when I abstained from a certain red
wine, which I generally and very willingly drank in the boarding-house.
This intolerable inconvenience had quitted me at Sesenheim, so that
I felt double pleasure in being there, but when I came back to my
town-diet it returned, to my great annoyance. All this made me
thoughful and morose; and my outward appearance probably corresponded
with my inward feelings.

Being in a worse humour than ever, because the malady was violent
after dinner, I attended the clinical lecture. The great care and
cheerfulness with which our respected instructor led us from bed to
bed, the minute observation of important symptoms, the judgment of the
cause of complaint in general, the fine Hippocratic mode of proceeding,
by which, without theory, and out of an individual experience, the
forms of knowledge revealed themselves, the addresses with which he
usually crowned his lectures--all this attracted me towards him, and
made a strange department, into which I only looked as through a
crevice, so much the more agreeable and fascinating. My disgust at the
invalids gradually decreased, as I learned to change their various
states into distinct conceptions, by which recovery and the restoration
of the human form and nature appeared possible. He probably had his
eye particularly upon me, as a singular young man, and pardoned the
strange anomaly which took me to his lectures. On this occasion he did
not conclude his lecture, as usual, with a doctrine which might have
reference to an illness that had been observed, but said cheerfully,
"Gentlemen, there are some holidays before us; make use of them to
enliven your spirits. Studies must not only be pursued with seriousness
and diligence, but also with cheerfulness and freedom of mind. Give
movement to your bodies, and traverse the beautiful country on horse
and foot. He who is at home will take delight in that to which he has
been accustomed, while for the stranger there will be new impressions,
and pleasant reminiscences in future."

There were only two of us to whom this admonition could be directed.
May the recipe have been as obvious to the other as it was to me! I
thought I heard a voice from heaven, and made all the haste I could
to order a horse and dress myself out neatly. I sent for Weyland, but
he was not to be found. This did not delay my resolution, but the
preparations unfortunately went on slowly, and I could not depart so
soon as I had hoped. Fast as I rode, I was overtaken by the night.
The way was not to be mistaken, and the moon shed her light on my
impassioned project. The night was windy and awful, and I dashed on,
that I might not have to wait till morning before I could see her.

[Side-note: Return to Sesenheim.]

It was already late when I put up my horse at Sesenheim. The landlord,
in answer to my question, whether there was still light in the
parsonage, assured me that the ladies had only just gone home; he
thought he had heard they were still expecting a stranger. This did not
please me, as I wished to have been the only one. I hastened, that,
late as I was, I might at least appear the first. I found the two
sisters sitting at the door. They did not seem much astonished, but I
was, when Frederica whispered into Olivia's ear, loud enough for me to
hear, "Did I not say so? Here he is!" They conducted me into a room,
where I found a little collation set out. The mother greeted me as an
old acquaintance; and the elder sister, when she saw me in the light,
broke out into loud laughter, for she had little command over herself.

After this first and somewhat odd reception, the conversation became
at once free and cheerful, and a circumstance, which had remained
concealed from me this evening, I learned on the following day.
Frederica had predicted that I should come; and who does not feel
some satisfaction at the fulfilment of a foreboding, even if it be a
mournful one? All presentiments, when confirmed by the event, give man
a higher opinion of himself, whether it be that he thinks himself in
possession of so fine a susceptibility as to feel a relation in the
distance, or acute enough to perceive necessary but still uncertain
associations. Even Olivia's laugh remained no secret; she confessed
that it seemed very comical to see me dressed and decked out on this
occasion. Frederica, on the other hand, found it advantageous not to
explain such a phenomenon as vanity, but rather to discover in it a
wish to please her.

Early in the morning Frederica asked me to take a walk. Her mother
and sister were occupied in preparing everything for the reception of
several guests. By the side of this beloved girl I enjoyed the noble
Sunday morning in the country, as the inestimable Hebel has depicted
it. She described to me the party which was expected, and asked me to
remain by her, that all the pleasure might, if possible, be common to
us both, and be enjoyed in a certain order. "Generally," she said,
"people amuse themselves alone. Sport and play is very lightly tasted,
so that at last nothing is left but cards for one part, and the
excitement of dancing for the other."

We therefore sketched our plan as to what should be done after dinner,
taught each other some new social games, and were united and happy,
when the bell summoned us to church, where, by her side, I found a
somewhat dry sermon of her father's not too long.

The presence of the beloved one always shortens time; but this
hour passed amid peculiar reflections. I repeated to myself the
good qualities which she had just unfolded so freely before
me--her circumspect cheerfulness, her _naïveté_ combined with
self-consciousness, her hilarity with foresight--qualities which seem
incompatible, but which nevertheless were found together in her, and
gave a pleasing character to her outward appearance. But now I had
to make more serious reflections upon myself, which were somewhat
prejudicial to a free state of cheerfulness.

[Side-note: Effect of Lucinda's Curse.]

Since that impassioned girl had cursed and sanctified my lips (for
every consecration involves both), I had, superstitiously enough, taken
care not to kiss any girl, because I feared that I might injure her in
some unheard-of spiritual manner. I therefore subdued every desire, by
which a youth feels impelled to win from a charming girl this favour,
which says much or little. But even in the most decorous company a
heavy trial awaited me. Those little games, as they are called, which
are more or less ingenious, and by which a joyous young circle is
collected and combined, depend in a great measure upon forfeits, in the
calling in of which kisses have no small value. I had resolved, once
for all, not to kiss, and as every want or impediment stimulates us to
an activity to which we should otherwise not feel inclined, I exerted
all the talent and humour I possessed to help myself through, and thus
to win rather than lose, before the company, and for the company.
When a verse was desired for the redemption of a forfeit, the demand
was usually directed to me. Now I was always prepared, and on such
occasions contrived to bring out something in praise of the hostess, or
of some lady who had conducted herself most agreeably towards me. If it
happened that a kiss was imposed upon me at all events, I endeavoured
to escape by some turn, which was considered satisfactory; and as I
had time to reflect on the matter beforehand, I was never in want of
various elegant excuses, although those made on the spur of the moment
were always most successful.

When we reached home, the guests, who had arrived from several
quarters, were buzzing merrily one with another, until Frederica
collected them together, and invited and conducted them to a walk
to that charming spot. There they found an abundant collation, and
wished to fill up with social games the period before dinner. Here,
by agreement with Frederica, though she did not know my secret,
I contrived to get up and go through games without forfeits, and
redemptions of forfeits without kissing.

My skill and readiness were so much the more necessary, as the company,
which was otherwise quite strange to me, seemed to have suspected some
connexion between me and the dear girl, and roguishly took the greatest
pains to force upon me that which I secretly endeavoured to avoid. For
in such circles, if people perceive a growing inclination between two
young persons, they try to make them confused, or to bring them closer
together, just as afterwards, when once a passion has been declared,
they take trouble on purpose to part them again. Thus, to the man of
society, it is totally indifferent whether he confers a benefit or an
injury, provided only he is amused.

This morning I could observe, with more attention, the whole character
of Frederica, so that for the whole time she always remained to me the
same. The friendly greetings of the peasants, which were especially
addressed to her, gave me to understand that she was beneficent to
them, and created in them an agreeable feeling. The elder sister
remained at home with her mother. Nothing that demanded bodily exertion
was required of Frederica; but she was spared, they said, on account of
her chest.

There are women who especially please us in a room, others who look
better in the open air. Frederica belonged to the latter. Her whole
nature, her form never appeared more charming than when she moved
along an elevated footpath; the grace of her deportment seemed to
vie with the flowery earth, and the indestructible cheerfulness of
her countenance with the blue sky. This refreshing atmosphere which
surrounded her she carried home, and it might soon be perceived that
she understood how to reconcile difficulties, and to obliterate with
ease the impression made by little unpleasant contingencies.

The purest joy which we can feel with respect to a beloved person is
to find that she pleases others. Frederica's conduct in society was
beneficent to all. In walks, she floated about, an animating spirit,
and knew how to supply the gaps which might arise here and there.
The lightness of her movements we have already commended, and she
was most graceful when she ran. As the deer seems just to fulfil its
destination when it lightly flies over the sprouting corn**, so did her
peculiar nature seem most plainly to express itself when she ran with
light steps over mead and furrow, to fetch something which had been
forgotten, to seek something which had been lost, to summon a distant
couple, or to order something necessary. On these occasions she was
never out of breath, and always kept her equilibrium. Hence the great
anxiety of her parents with respect to her chest must to many have
appeared excessive.

The father, who often accompanied us through meadows and fields, was
not always provided with a suitable companion. On this account I
joined him, and he did not fail to touch once more upon his favourite
theme, and circumstantially to tell me about the proposed building
of the parsonage. He particularly regretted that he could not again
get the carefully finished sketches, so as to meditate upon them,
and to consider this or that improvement. I observed, that the loss
might be easily supplied, and offered to prepare a ground-plan, upon
which, after all, everything chiefly depended. With this he was
highly pleased, and settled that we should have the assistance of the
schoolmaster, to stir up whom he at once hurried off, that the yard and
foot-measure might be ready early on the morrow.

When he had gone, Frederica said, "You are right to humour my dear
father on his weak side, and not, like others, who get weary of this
subject, to avoid him, or to break it off. I must, indeed, confess
to you that the rest of us do not desire this building; it would be
too expensive for the congregation and for us also. A new house, new
furniture! Our guests would not feel more comfortable with us, now
they are once accustomed to the old building. Here we can treat them
liberally; there we should find ourselves straightened in a wider
sphere. Thus the matter stands; but do not you fail to be agreeable. I
thank you for it, from my heart."

Another lady who joined us asked about some novels,--whether Frederica
had read them. She answered in the negative, for she had read but
little altogether. She had grown up in a cheerful, decorous enjoyment
of life, and was cultivated accordingly. I had the _Vicar of Wakefield_
on the tip of my tongue, but did not venture to propose it, the
similarity of the situations being too striking and too important. "I
am very fond of reading novels," she said; "one finds in them such nice
people, whom one would like to resemble."

[Side-note: Plan for the New Parsonage.]

The measurement of the house took place the following day. It was a
somewhat slow proceeding, as I was as little accustomed to such arts
as the schoolmaster. At last a tolerable project came to my aid. The
good father told me his views, and was not displeased when I asked
permission to prepare the plan more conveniently in the town. Frederica
dismissed me with joy; she was convinced of my affection, and I of
hers; and the six leagues no longer appeared a distance. It was so easy
to travel to Drusenheim in the diligence, and by this vehicle, as well
as by messengers, ordinary and extraordinary, to keep up a connexion,
George being entrusted with the despatches.

When I had arrived in the town, I occupied myself in the earliest hours
(for there was no notion of a long sleep) with the plan, which I drew
as neatly as possible. In the meanwhile I had sent Frederica some
books, accompanied by a few kind words. I received an answer at once,
and was charmed with her light, pretty, hearty hand. Contents and style
were natural, good, amiable, as if they came from within; and thus the
pleasing impression she had made upon me was ever kept up and renewed.
I but too readily recalled to myself the endowments of her beautiful
nature, and nurtured the hope that I should see her soon, and for a
longer time.

There was now no more any need of an address from our good instructor.
He had, by those words, spoken at the right time, so completely cured
me, that I had no particular inclination to see him and his patients
again. The correspondence with Frederica became more animated. She
invited me to a festival, to which also some friends from the other
side of the Rhine would come. I was to make arrangements for a longer
time. This I did, by packing a stout portmanteau upon the diligence,
and in a few hours I was in her presence. I found a large merry party,
took the father aside, and handed him the plan, at which he testified
great delight. I talked over with him what I had thought while
completing it. He was quite beside himself with joy, and especially
praised the neatness of the drawing. This I had practised from my
youth upwards, and had on this occasion taken especial pains, with the
finest paper. But this pleasure was very soon marred for our good host,
when, against my counsel, and in the joy of his heart, he laid the
sketch before the company. Far from uttering the desired sympathy, some
thought nothing at all of this precious work; others, who thought they
knew something of the matter, made it still worse, blaming the sketch
as not artistical, and, when the old man looked off for a moment,
handled the clean sheets as if they were only so many rough draughts,
while one, with the hard strokes of a lead-pencil, marked his plans of
improvement on the fine paper, in such a manner, that a restoration of
the primitive purity was not to be thought of.

I was scarcely able to console the extremely irritated man, whose
pleasures had been so outrageously destroyed, much as I assured him
that I myself looked upon them only as sketches, which we would talk
over, and on which we would construct new drawings. In spite of all
this he went off in a very ill-humour, and Frederica thanked me for
my attention to her father, as well as for my patience during the
unmannerly conduct of the other guests.

[Side-note: Festival at the Parsonage.]

But I could feel no pain nor ill-humour in her presence. The party
consisted of young and tolerably noisy friends, whom, nevertheless,
an old gentleman tried to outdo, proposing even odder stuff than they
practised. Already, at breakfast, the wine had not been spared. At a
very well-furnished dinner-table there was no want of any enjoyment,
and the feast was relished the more by everybody, after the violent
bodily exercise during the somewhat warm weather, and if the official
gentleman went a little too far in the good things, the young people
were not left much behind him.

I was happy beyond all bounds at the side of Frederica;--talkative,
merry, ingenious, forward, and yet kept in moderation by feeling,
esteem, and attachment. She, in a similar position, was open, cheerful,
sympathizing, and communicative. We all appeared to live for the
company, and yet lived only for each other.

After the meal they sought the shade, social games were begun, and the
turn came to forfeits. On redeeming the forfeits, everything of every
kind was carried to excess; the gestures which were commanded, the acts
which were to be done, the problems which were to be solved, all showed
a mad joy which knew no limits. I myself heightened these wild jokes
by many a comical prank, and Frederica shone by many a droll thought;
she appeared to me more charming than ever, all hypochondriacal
superstitious fancies had vanished, and when the opportunity offered of
heartily kissing one whom I loved so tenderly, I did not miss it, still
less did I deny myself a repetition of this pleasure.

The hope of the party for music was at last satisfied; it was heard,
and all hastened to the dance. _Allemandes_, waltzing and turning, were
beginning, middle and end. All had given up to this national dance;
even I did honour enough to my private dancing-mistress, and Frederica,
who danced as she walked, sprang, and ran, was delighted to find in
me a very expert partner. We generally kept together, but were soon
obliged to leave off, and she was advised on all sides not to go on any
further in this wild manner. We consoled ourselves by a solitary walk,
hand in hand, and when we had reached that quiet spot, by the warmest
embrace and the most faithful assurance that we loved each other
heartily.

Older persons, who had risen with us from the game, took us with them.
At supper people did not return to their sober senses. Dancing went on
far into the night, and there was as little want of healths and other
incitements to drinking as at noon.

I had scarcely for a few hours slept very profoundly, when I was
awakened by a heat and tumult in my blood. It is at such times and in
such situations that care and repentance usually attack man, who is
stretched out defenceless. My imagination at once presented to me the
liveliest forms; I saw Lucinda, how, after the most ardent kiss, she
passionately receded from me, and, with glowing cheek and sparkling
eyes, uttered that curse, by which she intended to menace her sister
only, but by which she also unconsciously menaced innocent persons,
who were unknown to her. I saw Frederica standing opposite to her,
paralysed at the sight, pale, and feeling the consequences of the
curse, of which she knew nothing. I found myself between them, as
little able to ward off the spiritual effects of the adventure, as to
avoid the evil-boding kiss. The delicate health of Frederica seemed
to hasten the threatened calamity, and now her love to mo wore a most
unhappy aspect, and I wished myself at the other side of the world.

But something still more painful to me, which lay in the background,
I will not conceal. A certain conceit kept that superstition alive
in me;--my lips, whether consecrated or cursed, appeared to me more
important than usual, and with no little complacency was I aware of my
self-denying conduct, in renouncing many an innocent pleasure, partly
to preserve my magical advantage, partly to avoid injuring a harmless
being by giving it up.

But now all was lost and irrevocable: I had returned into a mere common
position, and I thought that I had harmed, irretrievably injured, the
dearest of beings. Thus, far from my being freed from the curse, it was
flung back from my lips into my own heart.

All this together raged in my blood, already excited by love and
passion, "wine and dancing, confused my thoughts and tortured my
feelings, so that, especially as contrasted with the joys of the day
before, I felt myself in a state of despair which seemed unbounded.
Fortunately daylight peered in upon me through a chink in the shutter,
and the sun stepping forth and vanquishing all the powers of night, set
me again upon my feet; I was soon in the open air, and refreshed, if
not restored.

[Side-note: Correspondence with Frederica.]

Superstition, like many other fancies, very easily loses in power,
when, instead of flattering our vanity, it stands in its way, and
would fain produce an evil hour to this delicate being. "We then see
well enough that we can get rid of it when we choose; we renounce it
the more easily, as all of which we deprive ourselves turns to our
own advantage. The sight of Frederica, the feeling of her love, the
cheerfulness of everything around me--all reproved me, that in the
midst of the happiest days I could harbour such dismal night-birds in
my bosom. The confiding conduct of the dear girl, which became more and
more intimate, made me thoroughly rejoiced, and I felt truly happy,
when, at parting, she openly gave a kiss to me, as well as the other
friends and relations.

In the city many occupations and dissipations awaited me, from the
midst of which I collected myself for the sake of my beloved, by means
of a correspondence, which we regularly established. Even in her
letters she always remained the same; whether she related anything new,
or alluded to well-known occurrences, lightly described or cursorily
reflected, it was always as if, even with her pen, she appeared going,
coming, running, bounding with a step as light as it was sure. I also
liked very much to write to her, for the act of rendering present her
good qualities increased my affection even during absence, so that this
intercourse was little inferior to a personal one, nay, afterwards
became pleasanter and dearer to me.

For that superstition had been forced to give way altogether. It was
indeed based upon the impressions of earlier years, but the spirit of
the day, the liveliness of youth, the intercourse with cold sensible
men, all was unfavourable to it, so that it would not have been easy to
find among all who surrounded me a single person to whom a confession
of my whims would not have been perfectly ridiculous. But the worst
of it was, that the fancy, while it fled, left behind it a real
contemplation of that state in which young people are placed, whose
early affections can promise themselves no lasting result. So little
was I assisted in getting free from error, that understanding and
reflection used me still worse in this instance. My passion increased
the more I learned to know the virtue of the excellent girl, and the
time approached when I was to lose, perhaps for ever, so much that was
dear and good.

We had quietly and pleasantly passed a long time together, when friend
Weyland had the waggery to bring with him to Sesenheim the _Vicar of
Wakefield_, and when they were, talking of reading aloud, to hand
it over to me unexpectedly, as if nothing further was to be said. I
managed to collect myself, and read with as much cheerfulness and
freedom as I could. Even the faces of my hearers at once brightened,
and it did not seem unpleasant to them to be again forced to a
comparison. If they had found comical counterparts to Raymond and
Melusina, they here saw themselves in a glass which by no means gave a
distorted likeness. They did not openly confess, but they did not deny,
that they were moving among persons akin both by mind and feeling.

All men of a good disposition feel, with increasing cultivation, that
they have a double part to play in the world,--a real one and an
ideal one, and in this feeling is the ground of everything noble to
be sought. The real part which has been assigned to us we experience
but too plainly; with respect to the second, we seldom come to a clear
understanding about it. Man may seek his higher destination on earth
or in heaven, in the present or in the future, he yet remains on this
account exposed to an eternal wavering, to an influence from without
which ever disturbs him, until he once for all makes a resolution to
declare that that is right which is suitable to himself.

Among the most venial attempts to acquire something higher, to place
oneself on an equality with something higher, may be classed the
youthful impulse to compare oneself with the characters in novels. This
is highly innocent, and whatever may be urged against, it, the very
reverse of mischievous. It amuses at times when we should necessarily
die of _ennui_, or grasp at the recreation of passion.

How often is repeated the litany about the mischief of novels--and yet
what misfortune is it if a pretty girl or a handsome young man put
themselves in the place of a person who fares better or worse than
themselves? Is the citizen life worth so much? or do the necessities
of the day so completely absorb the man, that he must refuse every
beautiful demand which is made upon him?

[Side-note: Results of Novel-Reading.]

The historico-poetical Christian names which have intruded into the
German church in the place of the sacred names, not unfrequently to
the annoyance of the officiating clergyman, are without doubt to be
regarded as small ramifications of the romantico-poetical pictures.
This very impulse to honour one's child by a well-sounding name--even
if the name has nothing further behind it--is praiseworthy, and this
connexion of an imaginary world with the real one diffuses an agreeable
lustre over the whole life of the person. A beautiful child, whom
with satisfaction we call "Bertha," we should think we offended if we
were to call it "Urselblandine." With a cultivated man, not to say a
lover, such a name would certainly falter on the lips. The cold world,
which judges only from one side, is not to be blamed if it sets down
as ridiculous and objectionable all that comes forward as imaginary,
but the thinking connoisseur of mankind must know how to estimate it
according to its worth.

For the position of the loving couple on the fair Rhine-bank, this
comparison, to which a wag had compelled them produced the most
agreeable results. We do not think of ourselves when we look in a
mirror, but we feel ourselves, and allow ourselves to pass. Thus is it
also with those moral imitations, in which we recognise our manners and
inclinations, our habits and peculiarities, as in a _silhouette_, and
strive to grasp it and embrace it with brotherly affection.

The habit of being together became more and more confirmed, and nothing
else was known but that I belonged to this circle. The affair was
allowed to take its course without the question being directly asked
as to what was to be the result. And what parents are there who do
not find themselves compelled to let daughters and sons continue for
a while in such a wavering condition, until accidentally something is
confirmed for life, better than it could have been produced by a long
arranged plan.

It was thought that perfect confidence could be placed both in
Frederica's sentiments and in my rectitude, of which, on account of
my forbearance even from innocent caresses, a favourable opinion
had been entertained. We were left unobserved, as was generally the
custom, there and then, and it depended on ourselves to go over the
country, with a larger or smaller party, and to visit the friends in
the neighbourhood. On both sides of the Rhine, in Hagenau, Fort-Louis,
Philippsburg, the Ortenau, I found dispersed those persons whom I had
seen united at Sesenheim, every one by himself, a friendly, hospitable
host, throwing open kitchen and cellar just as willingly as gardens and
vineyards, nay, the whole spot. The islands on the Rhine were often a
goal for our water-expeditions. There, without pity, we put the cool
inhabitants of the clear Rhine into the kettle, on the spit, into the
boiling fat, and would here, perhaps more than was reasonable, have
settled ourselves in the snug fishermen's huts, if the abominable
Rhine-gnats (_Rhein-schnaken_) had not, after some hours, driven us
away. At this intolerable interruption of one of our most charming
parties of pleasure, when everything else was prosperous, when the
affection of the lovers seemed to increase with the good success of
the enterprise, and we had nevertheless come home too soon, unsuitably
and inopportunely. I actually, in the presence of the good reverend
father, broke out into blasphemous expressions, and assured him that
these gnats alone were sufficient to remove from me the thought that
a good and wise Deity had created the world. The pious old gentleman,
by way of reply, solemnly called me to order, and explained to me that
these gnats and other vermin had not arisen until after the fall of
our first parents, or that if there were any of them in Paradise, they
had only pleasantly hummed there, and had not stung. I certainly felt
myself calmed at once, for an angry man may easily be appeased if we
can succeed in making him smile; but I nevertheless asserted that there
was no need of the angel with the burning sword to drive the guilty
pair out of the garden; my host, I said, must rather allow me to think
that this was effected by means of great gnats on the Tigris and the
Euphrates. And thus I again made him laugh; for the old man understood
a joke, or at any rate let one pass.

[Side-note: The Pastor's Chair.]

However, the enjoyment of the day-time and season in this noble country
was more serious and more elevating to the heart. One had only to
resign oneself to the present, to enjoy the clearness of the pure
sky, the brilliancy of the rich earth, the mild evenings, the warm
nights, by the side of a beloved one, or in her vicinity. For months
together we were favoured with pure ethereal mornings, when the sky
displayed itself in all its magnificence, having watered the earth with
superfluous dew; and that this spectacle might not become too simple,
clouds after clouds piled themselves over the distant mountains,
now in this spot, now in that. They stood for days, nay, for weeks,
without obscuring the pure sky, and even the transient storms refreshed
the country, and gave lustre to the green, which again glistened in
the sunshine before it could become dry. The double rainbow, the
two-coloured borders of a dark grey and nearly black streak in the
sky, were nobler, more highly coloured, more decided, but also more
transient, than I had ever observed.

In the midst of these objects the desire of poetising, which I had not
felt for a long time, again came forward. For Frederica I composed many
songs to well-known melodies. They would have made a pretty little
book; a few of them still remain, and will easily be found among my
others.

Since on account of my strange studies and other circumstances I was
often compelled to return to the town, there arose for our affection a
new life, which preserved us from all that unpleasantness which usually
attaches itself as an annoying consequence to such little love-affairs.
Though far from me, she yet laboured for me, and thought of some new
amusement against I should return; though far from her, I employed
myself for her, that by some new gift or new notion I myself might be
again new to her. Painted ribbons had then just come into fashion, I
painted at once for her a few pieces, and sent them on with a little
poem, as on this occasion I was forced to stop away longer than I had
anticipated. That I might fulfil and even go beyond my promise to the
father of a new and elaborated plan, I persuaded a young adept in
architecture to work instead of myself. He took as much pleasure in
the task as he had kindness for me, and was still further animated by
the hope of a good reception in so agreeable a family. He finished the
ground-plan, sketch, and section of the house; court-yard and garden
were not forgotten, and a detailed but very moderate estimate was
added, to show the possibility of carrying out an extensive project.

These testimonials of our friendly endeavours obtained for us the
kindest reception; and since the good father saw that we had the best
will to serve him, he came forward with one wish more; it was the wish
to see his pretty but one-coloured chair adorned with flowers and other
ornaments. We showed ourselves accommodating. Colours, pencils, and
other requisites were fetched from the tradesmen and apothecaries of
the nearest towns. But that we might not be wanting in a _Wakefield_
mistake, we did not remark, until all had been most industriously and
variously painted, that we had taken a false varnish which would not
dry; neither sunshine nor draught, neither fair nor wet weather were
of any avail. In the meanwhile we were obliged to make use of an old
lumber-room, and nothing was left us but to rub out the ornaments with
more assiduity than we had painted them. The unpleasantness of this
work was still increased when the girls intreated us, for heaven's
sake, to proceed slowly and cautiously, for the sake of sparing the
ground; which, however, after this operation, was not again to be
restored to its former brilliancy.

By such little disagreeable contigencies, which happened at intervals,
we were, however, just as little interrupted in our cheerful life as
Dr. Primrose and his amiable family; for many an unexpected pleasure
befell both ourselves and our friends and neighbours. Weddings and
christenings, the erection of a building, an inheritance, a prize in
the lottery, were reciprocally announced and enjoyed. We shared all joy
together, like a common property, and wished to heighten it by mind and
love. It was not the first nor the last time that I found myself in
families and social circles at the very moment of their highest bloom,
and if I may flatter myself that I contributed something towards the
lustre of such epochs, I must, on the other hand, be reproached with
the fact, that on this very account such times passed the more quickly
and vanished the sooner.

[Side-note: The Visit to Strasburg.]

But now our love was to undergo a singular trial. I will call it a
trial (_Prüfung_), although this is not the right word. The country
family with which I was intimate was related to some families in
the city of good note and respectability, and comfortably off as to
circumstances. The young towns-people were often at Sesenheim. The
older persons, the mothers and aunts, being less moveable, heard so
much of the life there, of the increasing charms of the daughters, and
even of my influence, that they first wished to become acquainted with
me, and after I had often visited them, and had been well received
by them, desired also to see us once altogether, especially as they
thought they owed the Sesenheim folks a friendly reception in return.

There was much discussion on all sides. The mother could scarcely leave
her household affairs, Olivia had a horror of the town, for which she
was not fitted, and Frederica had no inclination for it; and thus the
affair was put off, until it was at last brought to a decision by
the fact, that it happened to be impossible for me to come into the
country; for it was better to see each other in the city, and under
some restraint, than not to see each other at all. And thus I now
found my fair friends, whom I had been only accustomed to see in a
rural scene, and whose image had only appeared to me hitherto before a
background of waving boughs, flowing brooks, nodding field-flowers, and
a horizon open for miles; I now saw them, I say, for the first time, in
town-rooms, which were indeed spacious, but yet narrow, if we take into
consideration the carpets, glasses, clocks, and porcelain figures.

The relation to that which one loves is so decided, that the
surrounding objects have little to do with it, but nevertheless the
heart desires that these shall be the suitable, natural, and usual
objects. With my lively feeling for everything present, I could not at
once adapt myself to the contradiction of the moment. The respectable
and calmly noble demeanour of the mother was perfectly adapted to the
circle; she was not different from the other ladies; Olivia, on the
other hand, showed herself as impatient as a fish out of water. As she
had formerly called to me in the gardens, or beckoned me aside in the
fields, if she had anything particular to say to me, she also did the
same here, when she drew me into the recess of a window. This she did
awkwardly and with embarrassment, because she felt that it was not
becoming, and did it notwithstanding. She had the most unimportant
things in the world to say to me--nothing but what I knew already;
for instance, that she wished herself by the Rhine, over the Rhine,
or even in Turkey. Frederica, on the contrary, was highly remarkable
in this situation. Properly speaking, she also did not suit it, but
it bore witness to her character, that, instead of finding herself
adapted to this condition, she unconsciously moulded the condition
according to herself. She acted here as she had acted with the society
in the country. She knew how to animate every moment. Without creating
any disturbance, she put all in motion, and exactly by this pacified
society, which really is only disturbed by _ennui._ She thus completely
fulfilled the desire of her town aunts, who wished for once, on their
sofas, to be witnesses of those rural games and amusements. If this was
done to satisfaction, so also were the wardrobe, the ornaments, and
whatever besides distinguished the town nieces, who were dressed in
the French fashion, considered and admired without envy. With me also
Frederica had no difficulty, since she treated me the same as ever. She
seemed to give me no other preference but that of communicating her
desires and wishes to me rather than to another, and thus recognising
me as her servant.

To this service she confidently laid claim on one of the following
days, when she privately told me that the ladies wished to hear me
read. The daughters of the house had spoken much on this subject,
for at Sesenheim I had read what and when I was desired. I was ready
at once, but craved quiet and attention for several hours. This
was conceded, and one evening I read through the whole of _Hamlet_
without interruption, entering into the sense of the piece as well as
I was able, and expressing myself with liveliness and passion, as is
possible in youth. I earned great applause. Frederica drew her breath
deeply from time to time, and a transient red had passed over her
cheeks. These two symptoms of a tender heart internally moved, while
cheerfulness and calmness were externally apparent, were not unknown
to me, and were indeed the only reward which I had striven to obtain.
She joyfully collected the thanks of the party for having caused me to
read, and in her graceful manner did not deny herself the little pride
at having shone in me and through me.

This town visit was not to have lasted long: but the departure was
delayed. Frederica did her part for the social amusement, and I was not
wanting, but the abundant sources which yield so much in the country
now dried up in their turn, and the situation was the more painful, as
the elder sister gradually lost all self-control. The two sisters were
the only persons in the society who dressed themselves in the German
fashion. Frederica had never thought of herself in any other way, and
believed herself so right everywhere, that she made no comparisons with
any one else; but Olivia found it quite insupportable to move about in
a society of genteel appearance attired so like a maid-servant. In the
country she scarcely remarked the town costume of others, and did not
desire it, but in the town she could not endure the country style. All
this, together with the different lot of town ladies, and the thousand
trifles of a series of circumstances totally opposed to her own
notions, so worked for some days in her impassioned bosom, that I was
forced to apply all my flattering attention to appease her, according
to the wish of Frederica. I feared an impassioned scene. I looked
forward to the moment when she would throw herself at my feet, and
implore me by all that was sacred to rescue her from this situation.
She was good to a heavenly degree if she could conduct herself in her
own way, but such a restraint at once made her uncomfortable, and could
at last drive her even to despair. I now sought to hasten that which
was desired by the mother and Olivia, and not repugnant to Frederica. I
did not refrain from praising her as a contrast to her sister; I told
her what pleasure it gave me to find her unaltered, and, even under the
present circumstances, just as free as the bird among the branches. She
was courteous enough to reply that I was there, and that she wished to
go neither in nor out when I was with her.

At last I saw them take their departure, and it seemed as though a
stone fell from my heart; for my own feelings had shared the condition
of Frederica and Olivia; I was not passionately tormented like the
latter, but I felt by no means as comfortable as the former.

[Side-note: The "Disputation."]

Since I had properly gone to Strasburg to take my degree, it may be
rightly reckoned among the irregularities of my life, that I treated
this material business as a mere collateral affair. All anxiety as to
my examination I had put aside in a very easy fashion, but I had now
to think of the _disputation_[1] for on my departure from Frankfort I
had promised my father, and resolved within myself to write one. It is
the fault of those who can do many things, nay, much, that they trust
everything to themselves, and youth must indeed be in this position, if
anything is to be made of it. A survey of the science of jurisprudence
and all its framework I had pretty well acquired, single subjects of
law sufficiently interested me, and as I had the good Leyser for my
model, I thought I should get tolerably through with my own little
common-sense. Great movements were showing themselves in jurisprudence;
judgments were to be more according to equity, all rights by usage
were daily seen to be compromised, and in the criminal department
especially a great change was impending. As for myself, I felt well
enough that I lacked an infinite deal to fill up the legal commonplace
which I had proposed. The proper knowledge was wanting, and no inner
tendency urged me to such subjects. Neither was there any impulse from
without, nay, quite another faculty[2] had completely earned me away.
In general, if I was to take any interest in a thing, it was necessary
for me to gain something from it, to perceive in it something that
appeared fertile to me, and gave me prospects. Thus I had once more
noted down some materials, had afterwards made collections, had taken
my books of extracts in hand, had considered the point which I wished
to maintain, the scheme according to which I wished to arrange the
single elements; but I was sharp enough soon to perceive that I could
not get on, and that to treat a special matter, a special and long
pursuing industry was requisite, nay, that such a special task cannot
be successfully accomplished unless, upon the whole, one is at any rate
an old hand, if not a master.

The friends to whom I communicated my embarrassment deemed me
ridiculous, because one can dispute upon _theses_ as well, nay, even
better, than upon a treatise, and in Strasburg this was not uncommon.
I allowed myself to be very well inclined to such an expedient, but
my father, to whom I wrote on the subject, desired a regular work,
which, as he thought, I could very well prepare, if I only chose so
to do and allowed myself proper time. I was now compelled to throw
myself upon some general topic, and to choose something which I should
have at my fingers' ends. Ecclesiastical history was almost better
known to me than the history of the world, and that conflict in which
the church--the publicly recognised worship of God--finds itself, and
always will find itself, in two different directions, had always highly
interested me. For now it lies in an eternal conflict with the state,
over which it will exalt itself; now with the individuals, all of
whom it will gather to itself. The state, on its side, will not yield
the superior authority to the church, and the individuals oppose its
restraints. The state desires everything for public, universal ends;
the individual for ends belonging to the home, heart, and feelings.
From my childhood upwards I had been a witness of such movements, when
the clergy now offended their authorities, now their congregations.
I had therefore established it as a principle in my young mind, that
the state--the legislator--had the right to determine a worship,
according to which the clergy should teach and conduct themselves,
and the laity, on the other hand, should direct themselves publicly
and externally; while there should be no question about any one's
thoughts, feelings, or notions. Thus I believed that I had at once
got rid of all collisions. I therefore chose for my _disputation_
the first half of this theme, namely, that the legislator was not
only authorised, but bound to establish a certain worship, from which
neither the clergy nor the laity might free themselves. I carried out
this theme partly historically, partly argumentatively, showing that
all public religions had been introduced by leaders of armies, kings,
and powerful men; that this had even been the case with Christianity.
The example of Protestantism lay quite close at hand. I went to work
at this task with so much the more boldness, as I really only wrote
it to satisfy my father, and desired and hoped nothing more ardently
than that it might not pass the censorship. I had imbibed from Behrisch
an unconquerable dislike to see anything of mine in print, and my
intercourse with Herder had discovered to mo but too plainly my own
insufficiency, nay, a certain mistrust in myself had through this
means been perfectly matured. As I drew this work almost entirely out
of myself, and wrote and spoke Latin with fluency, the time which I
expended on the treatise passed very agreeably. The matter had at least
some foundation, the style, naturally speaking, was not bad, the whole
was pretty well rounded off. As soon as I had finished it, I went
through it with a good Latin scholar, who, although he could not, on
the whole, improve my style, yet easily removed all striking defects,
so that something was produced that was fit to be shown. A fair copy
was at once sent to my father, who disapproved of one thing, namely,
that none of the subjects previously taken in hand had been worked out,
but nevertheless, as a thorough Protestant, he was well pleased with
the boldness of the plan. My singularities were tolerated, my exertions
were praised, and he promised himself an important effect from the
publication of the work.

[Side-note: The "Disputation."]

I now handed over my papers to the faculty, who fortunately behaved
in a manner as prudent as it was polite. The dean, a lively, clever
man, began with many laudations of my work, then went on to what
was doubtful, which he contrived gradually to change into something
dangerous, and concluded by saying that it might not be advisable
to publish this work as an academical dissertation. The _aspirant_
had shown himself to the faculty as a thinking young man, of whom
they might hope the best; they would willingly, not to delay the
affair, allow me to dispute on _theses._ I could afterwards publish
my treatise, either in its present condition or more elaborated, in
Latin, or in another language. This would everywhere be easy to me
as a private man and a Protestant, and I should have the pleasure of
an applause more pure and more general. I scarcely concealed from
the good man what a stone his discourse rolled from my heart; at
every new argument which he advanced, that he might not trouble me
nor make me angry by his refusal, my mind grew more and more easy,
and so did his own at last, when, quite unexpectedly, I offered no
resistance to his reasons, but, on the contrary, found them extremely
obvious, and promised to conduct myself according to his counsel and
guidance. I therefore sat down again with my _repetent._ _Theses_
were chosen and printed, and the disputation, with the opposition
of my fellow-boarders, went off with great merriment, and even with
facility, for my old habit of turning over the _Corpus Juris_ was very
serviceable to me, and I could pass for a well instructed man. A good
feast, according to custom, concluded the solemnity.

My father, however, was very dissatisfied that the little work had not
been regularly printed as a _disputation_, because he had hoped that I
should gain honour by it on my entrance into Frankfort. He therefore
wished to publish it specially, but I represented to him that the
subject, which was only sketched, could be more completely carried
out at some future time. He put up the manuscript carefully for this
purpose, and many years afterwards I saw it among his papers.

[Side-note: Schöpflin.]

I took my degree on the 6th August, 1771; and on the following day
Schöpflin died, in the 75th year of his age. Even without closer
contact, he had had an important influence upon me; for eminent
contemporaries may be compared to the greater stars, towards which,
so long as they merely stand above the horizon, our eye is turned,
and feels strengthened and cultivated, if it is only allowed to take
such perfections into itself. Bountiful nature had given Schöpflin an
advantageous exterior, a slender form, kindly eyes, a ready mouth, and
a thoroughly agreeable presence. Neither had she been sparing in gifts
of mind to her favourite; and his good fortune was the result of innate
and carefully-cultivated merits, without any troublesome exertion. He
was one of those happy men, who are inclined to unite the past and the
present, and understand how to connect historical knowledge with the
interests of life. Born in the Baden territory, educated at Basle and
Strasburg, he quite properly belonged to the paradisiacal valley of the
Rhine, as an extensive and well-situated fatherland. His mind being
directed to historical and antiquarian objects, he readily seized upon
them with a felicitous power of representation, and retained them by
the most convenient memory. Desirous as he was both of learning and
of teaching, he pursued a course of study and of life which equally
advanced. He soon emerges and rises above the rest, without any kind
of interruption; diffuses himself with ease through the literary
and citizen-world, for historical knowledge passes everywhere, and
affability attaches itself everywhere. He travels through Germany,
Holland, France. Italy; he comes in contact with all the learned men
of his time; he amuses princes, and it is only when, by his lively
loquacity, the hours of the table or of audience are lengthened, that
he is tedious to the people at court. On the other hand, he acquires
the confidence of the statesmen, works out for them the most profound
legal questions, and thus finds everywhere a field for his talent.
In many places they attempt to retain him, but he remains faithful
to Strasburg and the French court. His immoveable German honesty is
recognised even there, he is even protected against the powerful Prætor
Klingling, who is secretly his enemy. Sociable and talkative by nature,
he extends his intercourse with the world, as well as his knowledge and
occupations; and we should hardly be able to understand whence he got
all his time, did we not know that a dislike to women accompanied him
through his whole life; and that thus he gained many days and hours
which are happily thrown away by those who are well-disposed towards
the ladies.

For the rest, he belongs, as an author, to the ordinary sort of
character, and, as an orator, to the multitude. His programme, his
speeches, and addresses are devoted to the particular day--to the
approaching solemnity; nay, his great work, _Alsatia Illustrata_,
belongs to life, as he recalls the past, freshens up faded forms,
reanimates the hewn and the formed stone, and brings obliterated broken
inscriptions for a second time before the eyes and mind of his reader.
In such a manner, his activity fills all Alsatia and the neighbouring
country; in Baden and the Palatinate he preserves to an extreme old
age an uninterrupted influence; at Mannheim he founds the Academy of
Sciences, and remains president of it till his death.

I never approached this eminent man, excepting on one night, when we
gave him a torch-serenade. Our pitch-torches more filled with smoke
than lighted the court-yard of the old chapter-house, which was
over-arched by linden-trees. When the noise of the music had ended, he
came forward and stepped into the midst of us; and here also was in
his right place. The slender, well-grown, cheerful old man stood with
his light, free manners, venerably before us, and held us worthy the
honour of a well-considered address, which he delivered to us in an
amiable paternal manner, without a trace of restraint or pedantry, so
that we really thought ourselves something for the moment; for, indeed,
he treated us like the kings and princes whom he had been so often
called upon to address in public. We testified our satisfaction aloud,
trumpets and drums repeatedly sounded, and the dear, hopeful academical
_plebs_ then found its way home with hearty satisfaction.

[Side-note: Koch and Oberlin.]

His scholars and companions in study, Koch and Oberlin, were men
in close connexion with me. My taste for antiquarian remains was
passionate. They often let me into the museum, which contained, in
many ways, the vouchers to his great work on Alsace. Even this work I
had not known intimately until after that journey, when I had found
antiquities on the spot, and now being perfectly advanced, I could, on
longer or shorter expeditions, render present to myself the valley of
the Rhine as a Roman possession, and finish colouring many a dream of
times past.

Scarcely had I made some progress in this, than Oberlin directed me
to the monuments of the middle ages, and made me acquainted with the
ruins and remains, the seals and documents, which those times have
left behind them; nay, sought to inspire me with an inclination for
what we called the Maine-singers and heroic poets. To this good man, as
well as to Herr Koch, I have been greatly indebted; and if things had
gone according to their wish, I should have had to thank them for the
happiness of my life. The matter stood thus:--

Schöpflin, who for his whole lifetime had moved in the higher sphere of
political law, and well knew the great influence which such and kindred
studies are likely to procure for a sound head, in courts and cabinets,
felt an insuperable, nay, unjust aversion from the situation of a
civilian, and had inspired his scholars 'with the like sentiments. The
above-mentioned two men, friends of Salzmann, had taken notice of me in
a most friendly manner. My impassioned grasping at external objects,
the manner in which I continued to bring forward their advantages, and
to communicate to them a particular interest, they prized higher than
I did myself. My slight, and I may say, my scanty occupation with the
civil law, had not remained unobserved by them; they were well enough
acquainted with me to know how easily I was to be influenced; I had
made no secret of my liking for an academical life, and they therefore
thought to gain me over to history, political law, and rhetoric, at
first for a time, but after wards more decidedly. Strasbourg itself
offered advantages enough. The prospect of the German Chancery at
Versailles, the precedent of Schöpflin, whose merits, indeed, seemed
to me unattainable, were to incite to emulation, if not to imitation;
and perhaps a similar talent was thus to be cultivated, which might be
both profitable to him who could boast of it, and useful to others who
might choose to employ it on their own account. These, my patrons, and
Salzmann with them, set a great value on my memory and my capacity for
apprehending the sense of languages, and chiefly by these sought to
further their views and plans.

I now intend to describe, at length, how all this came to nothing, and
how it happened that I again passed over from the French to the German
side. Let me be allowed, as hitherto, some general reflections, by way
of transition.

There are few biographies which can represent a pure, quiet, steady
progress of the individual. Our life, as well as all in which we are
contained, is, in an incomprehensible manner, composed of freedom and
necessity. Our will is a prediction of what we shall do, under all
circumstances. But these circumstances lay hold on us in their own
fashion. The _what_ lies in us, the _how_ seldom depends on us, after
the _wherefore_ we dare not ask, and on this account we are rightly
referred to the _quia._

The French tongue I had liked from my youth upwards; I had learned to
know the language through a bustling life, and a bustling life through
the language. It had become my own, like a second mother-tongue,
without grammar and instruction--by mere intercourse and practice. I
now wished to use it with still greater fluency, and gave Strasburg the
preference, as a second university residence, to other high schools;
but, alas! it was just there that I had to experience the very reverse
of my hopes, and to be turned rather from than to this language and
these manners.

The French, who generally aim at good behaviour, are indulgent
towards foreigners who begin to speak their language; they will not
laugh any one out of countenance at a fault, or blame him in direct
terms. However, since they cannot endure sins committed against their
language, they have a manner of repeating, and, as it were, courteously
confirming what has been said with another turn, at the same time
making use of the expression which should properly have been employed;
thus leading the intelligent and the attentive to what is right and
proper.

[Side-note: Difficulty with the French Language.]

Now although, if one is in earnest--if one has self-denial enough to
profess oneself a pupil, one gains a great deal, and is much advanced
by this plan, one nevertheless always feels in some degree humiliated;
and, since one talks for the sake of the subject-matter also, often
too much interrupted, or even distracted, so that one impatiently lets
the conversation drop. This happened with me more than with others,
as I always thought that I had to say something interesting, and, on
the other hand, to hear something important, and did not wish to be
always brought back merely to the expression,--a case which often
occurred with me, as my French was just as motley as that of any other
foreigner. I had observed the accent and idiom of footmen, valets,
guards, young and old actors, theatrical lovers, peasants, and heroes;
and this Babylonish idiom was rendered still more confused by another
odd ingredient, as I liked to hear the French reformed clergy,
and visited their churches the more willingly, as a Sunday walk to
Bockenheim was on this account not only permitted but ordered. But even
this was not enough; for as in my youthful years, I had always been
chiefly directed to the German of the 16th century, I soon included the
French also of that noble epoch among the objects of my inclination.
Montaigne, Amyot, Rabelais, Marot, were my friends, and excited in me
sympathy and delight. Now all these different elements moved in my
discourse chaotically one with another, so that for the hearer the
meaning was lost in the oddity of the expression; nay an educated
Frenchman could no more courteously correct me, but had to censure me
and tutor me in plain terms. It therefore happened with me here once
more as it had happened in Leipzig, only that on this occasion I could
not appeal to the right of my native place to speak idiomatically, as
well as other provinces; but being on a foreign ground and soil, was
forced to adapt myself to traditional laws.

Perhaps we might even have resigned ourselves to this, if an evil
genius had not whispered into our ears that all endeavours by a
foreigner to speak French would remain unsuccessful; for a practised
ear can perfectly well detect a German, Italian, or Englishman under a
French mask. One is tolerated, but never received into the bosom of the
only church of language.

Only a few exceptions were granted. They named to us a Herr von
Grimm; but even Schöpflin, it seemed, did not reach the summit. They
allowed that he had early seen the necessity of expressing himself in
French to perfection; they approved of his inclination to converse
with every one, and especially to entertain the great and persons of
rank; they praised him, that living in the place where he was, he
had made the language of the country his own, and had endeavoured
as much as possible to render himself a Frenchman of society and
orator. But what does he gain by the denial of his mother-tongue,
and his endeavours after a foreign one? He cannot make it right with
anybody. In society they are pleased to deem him vain; as if any one
would or could converse with others without some feeling for self and
self-complacency! Then the refined connoisseurs of the world and of
language assert that there is in him more of dissertation and dialogue
than of conversation, properly so called. The former was generally
recognised as the original and fundamental sin of the Germans, the
latter as the cardinal virtue of the French. As a public orator he
fares no better. If he prints a well-elaborated address to the king or
the princes, the Jesuits, who are ill-disposed to him as a Protestant,
lay wait for him, and show that his terms of expression are _not
French._

Instead of consoling ourselves with this, and bearing as green wood
that which had been laid upon the dry, we were annoyed at such pedantic
injustice. We fall into despair, and, by this striking example, are
the more convinced that it is a vain endeavour to try to satisfy the
French by the matter itself, as they are too closely bound to the
external conditions under which everything is to appear. We therefore
embrace the opposite resolution of getting rid of the French language
altogether, and of directing ourselves more than ever, with might and
earnestness, to our own mother-tongue.

And for this we found opportunity and sympathy in actual life. Alsace
had not been connected with France so long that an affectionate
adherence to the old constitution, manners, language, and costume
did not still exist with old and young. If the conquered party loses
half his existence by compulsion, he looks upon it as disgraceful
voluntarily to part with the other half. He therefore holds fast to all
that can recall to him the good old time, and foster in him the hope
that a better epoch will return. Very many inhabitants of Strasburg
formed little circles, separate, indeed, but nevertheless united in
spirit, which were always increased and recruited by the numerous
subjects of German princes who held considerable lands under French
sovereignty, since fathers and sons, either for the sake of study or
business, resided for a longer or shorter time at Strasburg.

At our table nothing but German was spoken. Salzmann expressed himself
in French with much fluency and elegance; but, with respect to his
endeavours and acts, was a perfect German. Lerse might have been set up
as a pattern of a German youth. Meyer, of Lindau, liked to get on with
good German too well to shine in good French; and if, among the rest,
many were inclined to the Gallic speech and manners, they yet, while
they were with us, allowed the general tone to prevail with them.

[Side-note: Dislike to the French.]

From the language we turned to political affairs. We had not, indeed,
much to say in praise of our own imperial constitution. We granted that
it consisted of mere legal contradictions; but exalted ourselves so
much the more above the present French constitution, which lost itself
in mere lawless abuses, while the government only showed its energy
in the wrong place, and was forced to admit that a complete change in
affairs was already publicly prophesied with black forebodings.

If, on the other hand, we looked towards the north, we were shone upon
by Frederic, the polar-star, who seemed to turn about himself Germany,
Europe, nay, the whole world. His preponderance in everything was most
strongly manifested when the Prussian exercise and even the Prussian
stick was introduced into the French army. As for the rest, we forgave
him his predilection for a foreign language, since we felt satisfaction
that his French poets, philosophers, and _littérateurs_ continued to
annoy him, and often declared that he was to be considered and treated
only as an intruder.

But what, more than all, forcibly alienated us from the French, was the
unpolite opinion, repeatedly maintained, that the Germans in general,
as well as the king, who was striving after French cultivation, were
deficient in taste. With respect to this kind of talk, which followed
every judgment like a burden, we endeavoured to solace ourselves with
contempt; but we could so much the less come to a clear understanding
about it, as we were assured that Menage had already said, that the
French writers possessed everything but taste; and had also learned
from the then living Paris, that all the authors were wanting in taste,
and that Voltaire himself could not escape this severest of reproaches.
Having been before and often directed to nature, we would allow of
nothing but truth and uprightness of feeling, and the quick, blunt
expression of it.

    "Friendship, love, and brotherhood,
     Are they not self-understood?"

was the watchword and cry of battle, by which the members of our little
academical horde used to know and enliven each other. This maxim lay at
the foundation of all our social banquets, on the occasions of which we
did not fail to pay many an evening visit to Cousin Michel,[3] in his
well-known _Germanhood._

If, in what has hitherto been described, only external contingent
causes and personal peculiarities are found, the French literature had
in itself certain qualities which were rather repulsive than attractive
to an aspiring youth. It was advanced in years and genteel; and by
neither of these qualities can youth, which looks about for enjoyment
of life and for freedom, be delighted.

Since the sixteenth century, the course of French literature had
never been seen to be completely interrupted; nay, the internal and
religious disturbances, as well as the external wars, had accelerated
its progress; but, as we heard generally maintained, it was a hundred
years ago that it had existed in its full bloom. Through favourable
circumstances, they said, an abundant harvest had at once ripened,
and had been happily gathered in, so that the great talents of the
eighteenth century had to be moderately contented with mere gleanings.

In the meanwhile, however, much had become antiquated: first of all
comedy, which had to be freshened up to adapt itself, less perfectly,
indeed, but still with new interest, to actual life and manners. Of the
tragedies, many had vanished from the stage, and Voltaire did not let
slip the important opportunity which offered of editing Corneille's
works, that he might show how defective his predecessor had been, whom,
according to the general voice, he had not equalled.

[Side-note: Voltaire.]

And even this very Voltaire, the wonder of his time, had grown old,
like the literature, which, for nearly a century, he had animated and
governed. By his side still existed and vegetated many _littérateurs_,
in a more or less active and happy old age, who one by one disappeared.
The influence of society upon authors increased more and more; for
the best society, consisting of persons of birth, rank, and property,
chose for one of their chief recreations literature, which thus became
quite social and genteel. Persons of rank and _littérateurs_ mutually
cultivated and necessarily perverted each other; for the genteel has
always something excluding in its nature; and excluding also was the
French criticism, being negative, detracting, and fault-finding. The
higher class made use of such judgments against the authors; the
authors, with somewhat less decorum, proceeded in the same manner
against each other, nay, against their patrons. If the public was not
to be awed, they endeavoured to take it by surprise, or gain it by
humility; and thus--apart from the movements which shook church and
state to their inmost core--there arose such a literary ferment, that
Voltaire himself stood in need of his full activity, and his whole
preponderance, to keep himself above the torrent of general disesteem.
Already he was openly called an old capricious child; his endeavours,
carried on indefatigably, were regarded as the vain efforts of a
decrepid age; certain principles, on which he had stood during his
whole life, and to the spread of which he had devoted his days, were no
more held in esteem and honour; nay, his Deity, by acknowledging whom
he continued to declare himself free from atheism, was not conceded
him; and thus he himself, the grandsire and patriarch, was forced,
like his youngest competitor, to watch the present moment, to catch at
new power--to do his friends too much good, and his enemies too much
harm; and under the appearance of a passionate striving for the love of
truth, to act deceitfully and falsely. Was it worth the trouble to have
led such a great active life, if it was to end in greater dependence
than it had begun? How insupportable such a position was, did not
escape his high mind, his delicate sensibility. He often relieved
himself by leaps and thrusts, gave the reins to his humour, and carried
a few of his sword-cuts too far,--at which friends and enemies, for
the most part, showed themselves indignant; for every one thought he
could play the superior to him, though no one could equal him. A public
which only hears the judgment of old men, becomes over-wise too soon;
and nothing is more unsatisfactory than a mature judgment adopted by an
immature mind.

To us youths, before whom, with our German love of truth and nature,
honesty towards both ourselves and others hovered as the best guide
both in life and learning, the factious dishonesty of Voltaire and the
perversion of so many worthy subjects became more and more annoying,
and we daily strengthened ourselves in our aversion from him. He could
never have done with degrading religion and the sacred books, for
the sake of injuring priestcraft,[4] as they called it, and had thus
produced in me many an unpleasant sensation. But when I now learned
that, to weaken the tradition of a deluge, he had denied all petrified
shells, and only admitted them as _lusus naturæ_, he entirely lost
my confidence; for my own eyes had, on the Baschberg, plainly enough
shown me that I stood on the bottom of an old dried-up sea, among the
_exuviæ_ of its original inhabitants. These mountains had certainly
been once covered with waves, whether before or during the deluge did
not concern me; it was enough that the valley of the Rhine had been a
monstrous lake, a bay extending beyond the reach of the eyesight; out
of this I was not to be talked. I thought much more of advancing in the
knowledge of lands and mountains, let what would be the result.

French literature, then, had grown old and genteel in itself, and
through Voltaire. Let us devote some further consideration to this
remarkable man.

From his youth upwards, Voltaire's wishes and endeavours had been
directed to an active and social life, to politics, to gain on a large
scale, to a connexion with the heads of the earth, and a profitable
use of this connexion, that he himself might be one of the heads of
the earth also. No one has easily made himself so dependent, for the
sake of being independent. He even succeeded in subjugating minds;
the nation became his own. In vain did his opponents unfold their
moderate talents, and their monstrous hate; nothing succeeded in
injuring him. The court he could never reconcile to himself, but by
way of compensation, foreign kings were his tributaries; Katharine
and Frederic the Great, Gustavus of Sweden, Christian of Denmark,
Peniotowsky of Poland, Henry of Prussia, Charles of Brunswick,
acknowledged themselves his vassals; even popes thought they must coax
him by some acts of indulgence. That Joseph the Second had kept aloof
from him did not at all redound to the honour of this prince, for it
would have done no harm to him and his undertakings, if, with such a
fine intellect and with such noble views, he had been somewhat more
practically clever,[5] and a better appreciator of the mind.

What I have here stated in a compressed form, and in some connexion,
sounded at that time as a cry of the moment, as a perpetual discord,
unconnected and uninstructive, in our ears. Nothing was heard but
the praise of those who had gone before. Something good and new was
required: but the newest was never liked. Scarcely had a patriot
exhibited on the long inanimate stage national-French, heart-inspiring
subjects,--scarcely had the _Siege of Calais_ gained enthusiastic
applause, than the piece, together with all its national comrades, was
considered empty, and in every sense objectionable. The delineations of
manners by Destouches, which had so often delighted me when a boy, were
called weak; the name of this honest man had passed away; and how many
authors could I not point out, for the sake of whom I had to endure
the reproach that I judged like a provincial, if I showed any sympathy
for such men and their works, in opposition to any one who was carried
along by the newest literary torrent.

Thus, to our other German comrades we became more and more annoying.
According to our view,--according to the peculiarity of our own nature,
we had to retain the impressions of objects, to consume them but
slowly, and if it was to be so, to let them go as late as possible. We
were convinced that by faithful observation, by continued occupation,
something might be gained from all things, and that by persevering zeal
we must at last arrive at a point where the ground of the judgment
may be expressed at the same time with the judgment itself. Neither
did we fail to perceive that the great and noble French world offered
us many an advantage and much profit; for Rousseau had really touched
our sympathies. But if we considered his life and his fate, he was
nevertheless compelled to find the great reward for all he did in
this--that he could live unacknowledged and forgotten at Paris.

[Side-note: The Encyclopedists.]

If we heard the encyclopedists mentioned, or opened a volume of their
monstrous work, we felt as if we were going between the innumerable
moving spools and looms in a great factory, where, what with the mere
creaking and rattling--what with all the mechanism, embarrassing
both eyes and senses--what with the mere incomprehensibility of an
arrangement, the parts of which work into each other in the most
manifold way--what with the contemplation of all that is necessary to
prepare a piece of cloth, we feel disgusted with the very coat which we
wear upon our backs.

Diderot was sufficiently akin to us, as, indeed, in everything, for
which the French blame him, he is a true German. But even his point
of view was too high, his circle of vision was too extended for
us to range ourselves with him, and place ourselves at his side.
Nevertheless, his children of nature, whom he continued to bring
forward and dignify with great rhetorical art, pleased us very much;
his brave poachers and smugglers enchanted us; and this rabble
afterwards throve but too well upon the German Parnassus. It was
he also, who, like Rousseau, diffused a disgust of social life--a
quiet introduction to those monstrous changes of the world, in which
everything permanent appeared to sink.

However, we ought now to put aside these considerations, and to
remark what influence these two men have had upon art. Even here they
pointed--even from here they urged us towards nature.

The highest problem of any art is to produce by appearance the illusion
of a higher reality. But it is a false endeavour to realize the
appearance until at last only something commonly real remains.

As an ideal locality, the stage, by the application of the laws of
perspective to _coulisses_ ranged one behind the other, had attained
the greatest advantage; and this very gain they now wished wantonly
to abandon, by shutting up the sides of the theatre, and forming real
room-walls. With such an arrangement of the stage, the piece itself,
the actors' mode of playing, in a word, everything was to coincide; and
thus an entirely new theatre was to arise.

The French actors had, in comedy, attained the summit of the true in
art. Their residence at Paris, their observations of the externals of
the court, the connexion of the actors and actresses with the highest
classes, by means of love affairs--all contributed to transplant to
the stage the greatest realness and seemliness of social life; and on
this point the friends of nature found but little to blame. However
they thought they made a great advance, if they chose for their pieces
earnest and tragical subjects, in which the citizen-life should not
be wanting, used prose for the higher mode of expression, and thus
banished unnatural verse, together with unnatural declamation and
gesticulation.

It is extremely remarkable, and has not been generally noticed, that
at this time, even the old, severe, rhythmical, artistical tragedy was
threatened with a revolution, which could only be averted by great
talents and the power of tradition.

In opposition to the actor Le Kain, who played his heroes with especial
theatrical decorum, with deliberation, elevation, and force, and kept
himself aloof from the natural and ordinary, came forward a man named
Aufresne, who declared war against everything unnatural, and in his
tragic acting sought to express the highest truth. This mode might not
have accorded with that of the other Parisian actors. He stood alone,
while they kept together, and adhering to his views obstinately enough,
he chose to leave Paris rather than alter them, and came through
Strasburg. There we saw him play the part of Augustus in _Cinna_,
that of Mithridates, and others of the sort, with the truest and most
natural dignity. He appeared as a tall, handsome man, more slender than
strong, not, properly speaking, with an imposing, but nevertheless with
a noble, pleasing demeanour. His acting was well-considered and quiet,
without being cold, and forcible enough where force was required. He
was a very well-practised actor, and one of the few who know how to
turn the artificial completely into nature, and nature completely
into the artificial. It is really those few whose misunderstood good
qualities always originate the doctrine of false "naturalness."

[Side-note: Rousseau's "Pygmalion."]

And thus will I also make mention of a work, which is indeed small,
but which made an epoch in a remarkable manner,--I mean Rousseau's
_Pygmalion_. A great deal could be said upon it; for this strange
production floats between nature and art, with the full endeavour of
resolving the latter into the former. We see an artist who has produced
what is most perfect, and yet does not find any satisfaction in having,
according to art, represented his idea externally to himself, and given
to it a higher life; no, it must also be drawn down to him into the
earthly life. He will destroy the highest thing that mind and deed have
produced, by the commonest act of sensuality.

All this and much else, right and foolish, true and half-true,
operating upon us as it did, still more perplexed our notions; we were
driven astray through many by-ways and roundabout ways, and thus on
many sides was prepared that German literary revolution, of which we
were witnesses, and to which, consciously or unconsciously, willingly
or unwillingly, we unceasingly contributed.

We had neither impulse nor tendency to be illumined and advanced
in a philosophical manner; on religious subjects we thought we
had sufficiently enlightened ourselves, and therefore the violent
contest of the French philosophers with the priesthood was tolerably
indifferent to us. Prohibited books condemned to the flames, which
then made a great noise, produced no effect upon us. I mention as an
instance, to serve for all, the _Système de la Nature_, which we took
in hand out of curiosity. We did not understand how such a book could
be dangerous. It appeared to us so dark, so Cimmerian, so deathlike,
that we found it a trouble to endure its presence, and shuddered at
it as at a spectre. The author fancies he gives his book a peculiar
recommendation, when he declares in his preface, that as a decrepit old
man, just sinking into the grave, he wishes to announce the truth to
his contemporaries and to posterity.

We laughed him out; for we thought we had observed that by old people
nothing in the world that is loveable and good is in fact appreciated.
"Old churches have dark windows; to know how cherries and berries
taste, we must ask children and sparrows." These were our gibes and
maxims; and thus that book, as the very quintessence of senility,
appeared to us as unsavoury, nay, absurd. "All was to be of necessity,"
so said the book, "and therefore there was no God." But could there not
be a God by necessity too? asked we. We indeed confessed, at the same
time, that we could not withdraw ourselves from the necessities of day
and night, the seasons, the influence of climate, physical and animal
condition; but nevertheless we felt within us something that appeared
like perfect freedom of will, and again something which sought to
counterbalance this freedom.

The hope of becoming more and more rational, of making ourselves more
and more independent of external things, nay, of ourselves, we could
not give up. The word freedom sounds so beautiful, that we cannot do
without it, even though it designates an error.

[Side-note: "Système de la Nature."]

None of us had read the book through; for we found ourselves deceived
in the expectations with which we had opened it. A system of nature
was announced; and therefore we hoped to learn really something of
nature--our idol. Physics and chemistry, descriptions of heaven and
earth, natural history and anatomy, with much else, had now for years,
and up to the last day, constantly directed us to the great adorned
world; and we would willingly have heard both particulars and generals
about suns and stars, planets and moons, mountains, valleys, rivers and
seas, with all that live and move in them. That in the course of this,
much must occur which would appear to the common man as injurious, to
the clergy as dangerous, and to the state as inadmissible, we had no
doubt; and we hoped that the little book had not unworthily stood the
fiery ordeal. But how hollow and empty did we feel in this melancholy,
atheistical half-night, in which earth vanished with all its images,
heaven with all its stars. There was to be a matter in motion from all
eternity, and by this motion, right and left and in every direction,
without anything further, it was to produce the infinite phenomena of
existence. Even all this we should have allowed to pass, if the author,
out of his moved matter, had really built up the world before our eyes.
But he seemed to know as little about nature as we did; for, having set
up some general ideas, he quits them at once, for the sake of changing
that which appears as higher than nature, or as a higher nature within
nature, into material, heavy nature, which is moved, indeed, but
without direction or form--and thus he fancies he has gained a great
deal.

If, after all, this book did us any mischief, it was this,--that we
took a hearty dislike to all philosophy, and especially metaphysics,
and remained in that dislike; while, on the other hand, we threw
ourselves into living knowledge, experience, action, and poetising,
with all the more liveliness and passion.

Thus, on the very borders of France, we had at once got rid and clear
of everything French about us. The French way of life we found too
defined and genteel, their poetry cold, their criticism annihilating,
their philosophy abstruse, and yet insufficient, so that we were on
the point of resigning ourselves to rude nature, at least by way of
experiment, if another influence had not for a long time prepared us
for higher and freer views of the world, and intellectual enjoyments
as true as they were poetical, and swayed us, first moderately and
secretly, but afterwards with more and more openness and force.

I need scarcely say that Shakspeare is intended; and having once said
this, no more need be added. Shakspeare has been acknowledged by the
Germans, more by them than by other nations, perhaps even more than by
his own. We have richly bestowed on him all that justice, fairness, and
forbearance which we refuse to ourselves. Eminent men have occupied
themselves in showing his talents in the most favourable light; and I
have always readily subscribed to what has been said to his honour, in
his favour, or even by way of excuse for him. The influence of this
extraordinary mind upon me has been already shown; an attempt has been
made with respect to his works, which has received approbation; and
therefore this general statement may suffice for the present, until I
am in a position to communicate to such, friends as like to hear me, a
gleaning of reflections on his great deserts, such as I was tempted to
insert in this very place.

At present I will only show more clearly the manner in which I
became acquainted with him. It happened pretty soon at Leipzig,
through Dodd's _Beauties of Shakspeare._ Whatever may be said against
such collections, which give authors in a fragmentary form, they
nevertheless produce many good effects. We are not always so collected
and so ready that we can take in a whole work according to its merits.
Do we not, in a book, mark passages which have an immediate reference
to ourselves? Young people especially, who are wanting in a thorough
cultivation, are laudably excited by brilliant passages; and thus
I myself remember, as one of the most beautiful epochs of my life,
that which is characterised by the above-mentioned work. Those noble
peculiarities, those great sayings, those happy descriptions, those
humorous traits--all struck me singly and powerfully.

Wieland's translation now made its appearance. It was devoured,
communicated and recommended to friends and acquaintances. We Germans
had the advantage that many important works of foreign nations were
first brought over to us in an easy and cheerful fashion. Shakspeare,
translated in prose, first by Wieland, afterwards by Eschenburg, was
able, as a kind of reading universally intelligible, and suitable
to any reader, to diffuse itself speedily, and to produce a great
effect. I revere the rhythm as well as the rhyme, by which poetry first
becomes poetry; but that which is really, deeply, and fundamentally
effective--that which is really permanent and furthering, is that which
remains of the poet when it is translated into prose. Then remains the
pure, perfect substance, of which, when absent, a dazzling exterior
often contrives to make a false show, and which, when present, such an
exterior contrives to conceal. I therefore consider prose translations
more advantageous than poetical, for the beginning of youthful culture;
for it may be remarked that boys, to whom everything must serve as
a jest, delight themselves with the sound of words and the fall of
syllables, and by a sort of parodistical wantonness, destroy the deep
contents of the noblest work. Hence I would have it considered whether
a prose translation of Homer should not be next undertaken, though
this, indeed, must be worthy of the degree at which German literature
stands at present. I leave this, and what has been already said, to
the consideration of our worthy pedagogues, to whom an extensive
experience on this matter is most at command. I will only, in favour
of my proposition, mention Luther's translation of the Bible; for the
circumstance that this excellent man handed down a work, composed
in the most different styles, and gave us its poetical, historical,
commanding didactic tone in our mother-tongue, as if all were cast in
one mould, has done more to advance religion than if he had attempted
to imitate, in detail, the peculiarities of the original. In vain has
been the subsequent endeavour to make Job, the Psalms, and the other
lyrical books, capable of affording enjoyment in their poetical form.
For the multitude, upon whom the effect is to be produced, a plain
translation always remains the best. Those critical translations which
vie with the original, really only seem to amuse the learned among
themselves.

[Side-note: Influence of Shakspeare.]

And thus in our Strasburg society did Shakspeare, translated and
in the original, by fragments and as a whole, by passages and by
extracts, influence us in such a manner, that as there are Bible-firm
(_Bibelfest_) men, so did we gradually make ourselves firm in
Shakspeare, imitated in our conversations those virtues and defects
of his time with which he had made us so well acquainted, took the
greatest delight in his "quibbles,"[6] and by translating them, nay,
with original recklessness, sought to emulate him. To this, the fact
that I had seized upon him above all, with great enthusiasm, did not a
little contribute. A happy confession that something higher waved over
me was infectious for my friends, who all resigned themselves to this
mode of thought. We did not deny the possibility of knowing such merits
more closely, of comprehending them, of judging them with penetration,
but this we reserved for later epochs. At present we only wished to
sympathize gladly, and to imitate with spirit, and while we had so much
enjoyment, we did not wish to inquire and haggle about the man who
afforded it, but unconditionally to revere him.

[Side-note: Lenz.]

If any one would learn immediately what was thought, talked about,
and discussed in this lively society, let him read Herder's essay
on Shakspeare, in the part of his works upon the German manner and
art (_Ueber Deutsche Art und Kunst_), and also Lenz's remarks on the
theatre (_Anmerkungen übers Theater_), to which a translation of
_Love's Labour Lost_ was added.[7] Herder penetrates into the deepest
interior of Shakspeare's nature, and exhibits it nobly; Lenz conducts
himself more like an Iconoclast against the traditions of the theatre,
and will have everything everywhere treated in Shakspeare's manner.
Since I have had occasion to mention this clever and eccentric man
here, it is the place to say something about him by way of experiment.
I did not become acquainted with him till towards the end of my
residence at Strasburg. We saw each other seldom, his company was
not mine, but we sought an opportunity of meeting, and willingly
communicated with each other, because, as contemporary youths, we
harboured similar views. He had a small but neat figure, a charming
little head, to the elegant form of which his delicate but somewhat
flat features perfectly corresponded; blue eyes, blond hair, in
short, a person such as I have from time to time met among northern
youths; a soft and as it were cautious step, a pleasant but not quite
flowing speech, and a conduct which, fluctuating between reserve and
shyness, well became a young man. Small poems, especially his own, he
read very well aloud. For his turn of mind I only know the English
word "whimsical," which, as the dictionary shows, comprises very many
singularities under one notion. No one, perhaps, was more capable
than he to feel and imitate the extravagances and excrescences of
Shakspeare's genius. To this the translation above mentioned bears
witness. He treated his author with great freedom, was not in the least
close and faithful, but he knew how to put on the armour, or rather the
motley jacket, of his predecessor so very well, to adapt himself with
such humour to his gestures, that he was certain to obtain applause
from those who were interested in such matters.

The absurdities of the clowns especially constituted our whole
happiness, and we praised Lenz as a favoured man, when he succeeded in
rendering as follows the epitaph on the deer shot by the princess:--

    "Die schöne Princessin schoss und traf
     Eines jungen Hirschleins Leben;
     Es fiel dahin in schweren Schlaf
     Und wird ein Brätlein geben.
     Der Jagdhund boll! Ein L zu Hirsch
     So wird es denn ein Hirschel;
     Doch setzt ein römisch L zu Hirsch
     So macht es fünfzig Hirschel.
     Ich mache hundert Hirsche draus
     Schreib Hirschell mit zwei LLen."[8]

The tendency towards the absurd, which displays itself free and
unfettered in youth, but afterwards recedes more into the background,
without being on that account utterly lost, was in full bloom among us,
and we sought even by original jests to celebrate our great master. We
were very proud when we could lay before the company something of the
kind, which was in any degree approved, as, for instance, the following
on a riding-master, who had been hurt on a wild horse.

    "A rider in this house you'll find,
     A master too is he,
     The two into a nosegay bind,
     'Twill riding-master be.
     If master of the ride, I wis,
     Full well he bears the name,
     But if the ride the master is,
     On him and his be shame."[9]

About such things serious discussions were held as to whether they were
worthy of the clown or not, whether they flowed from the genuine pure
fool's spring, and whether sense and understanding had at all mingled
in an unfitting and inadmissible manner. Altogether our singular views
were diffused with the greater ardour, and more persons were in a
position to sympathize with them, as Lessing, in whom great confidence
was placed, had, properly speaking, given the first signal in his
_Dramaturgie._

In a society so attuned and excited I managed to take many a pleasant
excursion into Upper Alsace, whence, however, on this very account, I
brought back no particular instruction. The number of little verses
which flowed from us on that occasion, and which might serve to adorn
a lively description of a journey, are lost. In the cross-way of
Molsheim Abbey we admired the painted windows; in the fertile spot
between Colmar and Schlettstadt resounded some comic hymns to Ceres,
the consumption of so many fruits being circumstantially set forth
and extolled, and the important question as to the free or restricted
trade in them being very merrily taken up. At Ensisheim we saw the
monstrous aerolite hanging up in the church, and in accordance with
the scepticism of the time, ridiculed the credulity of man, never
suspecting that such air-born beings, if they were not to fall into our
corn-fields, were at any rate to be preserved in our cabinets.

[Side-note: The Ottilienberg.]

Of a pilgrimage to the Ottilienberg, accomplished with an hundred, nay,
a thousand of the faithful, I still love to think. Here, where the
foundation-wall of a Roman castle still remained, a count's beautiful
daughter, of a pious disposition, was said to have dwelt among
ruins and stony crevices. Near the chapel where the wanderers edify
themselves, her well is shown, and much that is beautiful is narrated.
The image which I formed of her, and her name, made a deep impression
upon me. I carried both about with me for a long time, until at last I
endowed with them one of my later, but not less beloved daughters,[10]
who was so favourably received by pure and pious hearts.

On this eminence also is repeated to the eye the majestic Alsace,
always the same, and always new. Just as in an amphitheatre, let one
take one's place where one will, one surveys the whole people, but sees
one's neighbours the plainest, so it is here with bushes, rocks, hills,
woods, fields, meadows, and districts near and in the distance. They
wished to show us even Basle in the horizon; that we saw it, I will not
swear, but the remote blue of the Swiss mountains even here exercised
its rights over us, by summoning us to itself, and since we could not
follow the impulse, by leaving a painful feeling.

To such distractions and cheerful recreations I abandoned myself the
more readily, and even with a degree of intoxication, because my
passionate connexion with Frederica now began to trouble me. Such a
youthful affection cherished at random, may be compared to a bomb-shell
thrown at night, which rises with a soft brilliant track, mingles
with the stars, nay, for a moment, seems to pause among them, then,
in descending, describes the same path in the reverse direction,
and at last brings destruction to the place where it has terminated
its course. Frederica always remained equal to herself; she seemed
not to think, nor to wish to think, that the connexion would so soon
terminate. Olivia, on the contrary, who indeed also missed me with
regret, but nevertheless did not lose so much as the other, had more
foresight, or was more open. She often spoke to me about my probable
departure, and sought to console herself both on her own and her
sister's account. A girl who renounces a man to whom she has not denied
her affections, is far from being in that painful situation in which a
youth finds himself who has gone so far in his declarations to a lady.
He always plays a pitiful part, since a certain survey of his situation
is expected of him as a growing man, and a decided levity does not suit
him. The reasons of a girl who draws back always seem sufficient, those
of a man--never.

But how should a flattering passion allow us to foresee whither it may
lead us? For even when we have quite sensibly renounced it, we cannot
get rid of it; we take pleasure in the charming habit, even if this is
to be in an altered manner. Thus it was with me. Although the presence
of Frederica pained me, I knew of nothing more pleasant than to think
of her while absent, and to converse with her. I went to see her less
frequently, but our correspondence became so much the more animated.
She knew how to bring before me her situation with cheerfulness, her
feelings with grace, and I called her merits to mind with fervour and
with passion. Absence made me free, and my whole affection first truly
bloomed by this communication in the distance. At such moments I could
quite blind myself as to the future; and was sufficiently distracted
by the progress of time and of pressing business. I had hitherto made
it possible to do the most various things by always taking a lively
interest in what was present and belonged to the immediate moment; but
towards the end all became too much crowded together, as is always the
case when one is to free oneself from a place.

One more event, which happened in an interval, took, from me the last
days. I found myself in a respectable society at a country-house,
whence there was a noble view of the front of the minster, and the
tower which rises over it. "It is a pity," said some one, "that the
whole was not finished, and that we have only one tower." "It is just
as unpleasant to me," answered I, "to see this one tower not quite
completed, for the four volutes leave off much too bluntly; there
should have been upon them four light spires, with a higher one in the
middle where the clumsy cross is standing."

When I had expressed this strong opinion with my accustomed animation,
a little lively man addressed me, and asked, "Who told you so?"
"The tower itself," I replied; "I have observed it so long and so
attentively, and have shown it so much affection, that it at last
resolved to make me this open confession." "It has not misinformed
you," answered he; "I am the best judge of that; for I am the person
officially placed over the public edifices. We still have among our
archives the original sketches, which say the same thing, and which
I can show to you." On account of my speedy departure I pressed him
to show me this kindness as speedily as possible. He let me see the
precious rolls; I soon, with the help of oiled paper, drew the spires,
which were wanting in the building as executed, and regretted that I
had not been sooner informed of this treasure. But this was always to
be the case with me, that by looking at things and considering them, I
should first attain a conception, which perhaps would not have been so
striking and so fruitful, if it had been given ready made.

[Side-note: Strasburg Minster.]

Amid all this pressure and confusion I could not fail to see Frederica
once more. Those were painful days, the memory of which has not
remained with me. When I reached her my hand from my horse, the
tears stood in her eyes, and I felt very uneasy. I now rode along
the footpath towards Drusenheim, and here one of the most singular
forebodings took possession of me. I saw, not with the eyes of the
body, but with those of the mind, my own figure coming towards me,
on horseback, and on the same road, attired in a dress which I had
never worn;--it was pike-grey (_hecht-grau_) with somewhat of gold.
As soon as I shook myself out of this dream, the figure had entirely
disappeared. It is strange, however, that eight years afterwards, I
found myself on the very road, to pay one more visit to Frederica, in
the dress of which I had dreamed, and which I wore, not from choice,
but by accident. However it may be with matters of this kind generally,
this strange illusion in some measure calmed me at the moment of
parting. The pain of quitting for ever the noble Alsace, with all
that I had gained in it, was softened, and having at last escaped
the excitement of a farewell, I found myself on a peaceful and quiet
journey, pretty well recovered.

Arrived at Mannheim, I hastened with great eagerness to see the hall
of antiquities, of which a great boast was made. Even at Leipzig, on
the occasion of Winckelmann's and Lessing's writings, I had heard much
said of those important works of art, but so much the less had I seen
them, for except Laocoön, the father, and the Faun with the crotola,
there were no casts in the academy, and whatever Oeser chose to say to
us on the subject of those works, was enigmatical enough. How can a
conception of the end of art be given to beginners?

Director Verschaffel's reception was kind. I was conducted to the
saloon by one of his associates, who, after he had opened it for me,
left me to my own inclinations and reflections. Here I now stood, open
to the most wonderful impressions, in a spacious, four-cornered, and,
with its extraordinary height, almost cubical saloon, in a space well
lighted from above by the windows under the cornice; with the noblest
statues of antiquity, not only ranged along the walls, but also set up
one with another over the whole area;--a forest of statues, through
which one was forced to wind; a great ideal popular assembly, through
which one was forced to press. All these noble figures could, by
opening and closing the curtains, be placed in the most advantageous
light, and besides this, they were moveable on their pedestals, and
could be turned about at pleasure.

After I had for a time sustained the first impression of this
irresistible mass, I turned to those figures which attracted me
the most, and who can deny that the Apollo Belvidere, with his
well-proportioned colossal stature, his slender build, his free
movement, his conquering glance, carried off the victory over our
feelings in preference to all the others? I then turned to Laocoön,
whom I here saw for the first time in connexion with his sons. I
brought to mind as well as possible the discussions and contests which
had been held concerning him, and tried to get a point of view of my
own; but I was now drawn this way, now that. The dying gladiator long
held me fast, but the group of Castor and Pollux, that precious though
problematical relic, I had especially to thank for my happiest moments.
I did not know how impossible it was at once to account to oneself for
a sight affording enjoyment. I forced myself to reflect, and little
as I succeeded in attaining any sort of clearness, I felt that every
individual figure from this great assembled mass was comprehensible,
that every object was natural and significant in itself.

[Side-note: Antiquities at Mannheim.]

Nevertheless my chief attention was directed to Laocoön, and I
decided for myself the famous question, why he did not shriek, by
declaring to myself that he could not shriek. All the actions and
movements of the three figures proceeded, according to my view, from
the first conception of the group. The whole position--as forcible
as artistical---of the chief body was composed with reference to two
impulses--the struggle against the snakes, and the flight from the
momentary bite. To soften this pain, the abdomen must be drawn in, and
shrieking rendered impossible. Thus I also decided that the younger son
was not bitten, and in other respects sought to elicit the artistical
merits of this group. I wrote a letter on the subject to Oeser, who,
however, did not show any special esteem for my interpretation, but
only replied to my good will with general terms of encouragement. I
was, however, fortunate enough to retain that thought, and to allow
it to repose in me for several years, until it was at last annexed to
the whole body of my experiences and convictions, in which sense I
afterwards gave it in editing my _Propylæa._

After a zealous contemplation of so many sublime plastic works, I was
not to want a foretaste of antique architecture. I found the cast of
a capital of the Rotunda, and do not deny that at the sight of those
acanthus-leaves, as huge as they were elegant, my faith in the northern
architecture began somewhat to waver.

This early sight, although so great and so effective throughout my
whole life, was nevertheless attended with but small results in the
time immediately following. How willingly would I have begun a book,
instead of ending one, with describing it; for no sooner was the door
of the noble saloon closed behind me, than I wished to recover myself
again, nay, I rather sought to remove those forms as cumbersome from
my memory; and it was only by a long circuitous route that I was
brought back into this sphere. However, the quiet fruitfulness is quite
inestimable of those impressions, which are received with enjoyment,
and without dissecting judgment. Youth is capable of this highest
happiness, if it will not be critical, but allows the excellent and the
good to act upon it without investigation and division.


[1] A polemic dissertation written on taking an university
degree.--_Trans._

[2] Medicine.--_Trans._

[3] "Michel" is exactly to the Germans what "John Bull" is to the
English.--_Trans._

[4] "Um den so genannten Pfaffen zu schaden." As we have not the
word for a priest, which exactly expresses the contempt involved in
"Pfaffe," the word "priestcraft" has been introduced.--_Trans._

[5] "Practically clever" is put as a kind of equivalent for the
difficult word "geistreich."--_Trans._

[6] This English word is used in the original.--_Trans._

[7] A complete edition of Lenz's works was published by Tieck in 1828.
In that will be found the essay and play in question, to the last of
which he gives the name _Amor vincit omnia._--_Trans._

[8] The lines in Shakspeare, which the above are intended to imitate,
are the following:--

"The praiseful princess pierc'd and prick'd a pretty pleasing pricket;
Some say a sore; but not a sore till now made sore with shooting. The
dogs did yell; put L to sore, then sorel jumps from thicket Or pricket,
sore, or else sorel; the people fall a-hooting. If sore be sore, then L
to sore makes fifty sores, O sore L! Of one sore I an hundred make, by
adding but one more L."

Lenz's words, which cannot be rendered intelligibly into English,
furnish an instance of Goethe's meaning, when he commends Lenz as
happily catching the spirit of the original, without the slightest
pretence to accuracy.--_Trans._

[9] The above doggrel is pretty faithful, but it is as well to give the
original.

"Ein Ritter wohnt in diesem Haus; Ein Meister auch daneben; Macht man
davon einen Blumenstrauss So wird's einen Rittmeister geben. Ist er nun
Meister von dem Ritt Führt er mit Recht den Namen; Doch nimmt der Ritt
den Meister mit, Weh ihm und seinem Samen." --_Trans._

[10] By this _daughter_ he means "Ottilie" in the _Elective
Affinities._.--Trans.




TWELFTH BOOK


The wanderer had now at last reached home,--more healthy and cheerful
than on the first occasion,--but still in his whole being there
appeared something over-strained, which did not fully indicate
mental health. At the very first I put my mother into the position,
that, between my father's sincere spirit of order and my own various
eccentricities, she was forced to occupy herself with bringing passing
events into a certain medium. At Mayence, a harp-playing boy had so
well pleased me, that, as the fair was close at hand, I invited him
to Frankfort, and promised to give him lodging and to encourage him.
In this occurrence appeared once more that peculiarity which has
cost me so much in my lifetime,--namely, that I liked to see younger
people gather round me and attach themselves to me, by which, indeed,
I am at last encumbered with their fate. One unpleasant experience
after another could not reclaim me from this innate impulse, which
even at present, and in spite of the clearest conviction, threatens
from time to time to lead me astray. My mother, clearer than myself,
plainly foresaw how strange it would appear to my father, if a musical
fair-vagabond went from such a respectable house to taverns and
drinking-houses to earn his bread. Hence she provided him with board
and lodging in the neighbourhood. I recommended him to my friends; and
thus the lad did not fare badly. After several years I saw him again,
when he had grown taller and more clumsy, without having advanced much
in his art. The good lady, well contented with this first attempt at
squaring and hushing up, did not think that this art would immediately
become completely necessary to her. My father, leading a contented life
amid his old tastes and occupations, was comfortable, like one who, in
spite of all hindrances and delays, carries out his plans. I had now
gained my degree, and the first step to the further graduating course
of citizen-life was taken. My _Disputation_ had obtained his applause;
a further examination of it, and many a preparation for a future
edition gave him occupation. During my residence in Alsace, I had
written many little poems, essays, notes on travel, and several loose
sheets. He found amusement in bringing these under heads, in arranging
them, and in devising their completion; and was delighted with the
expectation that my hitherto insuperable dislike to see any of these
things printed would soon cease. My sister had collected around her a
circle of intelligent and amiable women. Without being domineering, she
domineered over all, as her good understanding could overlook much, and
her good-will could often accommodate matters; moreover, she was in the
position of playing the confidant, rather than the rival. Of my older
friends and companions, I found in Horn the unalterably true friend
and cheerful associate. I also became intimate with Riese, who did not
fail to practise and try my acuteness by opposing, with a persevering
contradiction, doubt and negation to a dogmatic enthusiasm into which
I too readily fell. Others, by degrees, entered into this circle, whom
I shall afterwards mention; but among the persons who rendered my new
residence in my native city pleasant and profitable, the brothers
Schlosser certainly stood at the head. The elder, Heronymus, a profound
and elegant jurist, enjoyed universal confidence as counsellor. His
favourite abode was amongst his books and papers, in rooms where the
greatest order prevailed; there I have never found him otherwise than
cheerful and sympathising. In a larger society also he showed himself
agreeable and entertaining, for his mind, by extensive reading, was
adorned with all the beauty of antiquity. He did not, on occasion,
disdain to increase the social pleasures by agreeable Latin poems;
and I still possess several sportive distiches which he wrote under
some portraits drawn by me of strange and generally known Frankfort
caricatures. Often I consulted with him as to the course of life and
business I was now commencing; and if an hundredfold inclinations and
passions had not torn me from this path, he would have been my surest
guide.

Nearer to me, in point of age, was his brother George, who had
again returned from Treptow, from the service of the Duke Eugene of
Würtemberg. While he had advanced in knowledge of the world and in
practical talent, he had not remained behindhand in a survey of German
and foreign literature. He liked, as before, to write in all languages;
but did not further excite me in this respect, as I devoted myself
exclusively to German, and only cultivated other languages so far as to
enable me, in some measure, to read the best authors in the original.
His honesty showed itself the same as ever; nay, his acquaintance with
the world may have occasioned him to adhere with more severity and even
obstinacy to his well-meaning views.

[Side-note: Merk.]

Through these two friends, I very soon became acquainted with Merck, to
whom I had not been unfavourably announced by Herder, from Strasburg.
This strange man, who had the greatest influence on my life, was a
native of Darmstadt. Of his early education I can say but little. After
finishing his studies, he conducted a young man to Switzerland, where
he remained for some time, and came back married. When I made his
acquaintance, he was military paymaster at Darmstadt. Born with mind
and understanding, he had acquired much elegant knowledge, especially
in modern literature, and had paid attention to all times and places
in the history of the world and of man. He had the talent of judging
with certainty and acuteness. He was prized as a thorough, decisive man
of business, and a ready accountant. With ease he gained an entrance
everywhere, as a very pleasant companion for those to whom he had not
rendered himself formidable by sarcasms. His figure was long and lean;
a sharp prominent nose was remarkable; light blue, perhaps grey eyes,
gave something tiger-like to his glance, which wandered attentively
here and there. Lavater's _Physiognomy_ has preserved his profile for
us. In his character there was a wonderful contradiction. By nature
a good, noble, upright man, he had embittered himself against the
world, and allowed this morbid whim to sway him to such a degree,
that he felt an irresistible inclination to be wilfully a rogue, or
even a villain. Sensible, quiet, kind at one moment, it might strike
him in the next---just as a snail puts out his horns--to do something
which might hurt, wound, or even injure another. Yet as one readily
associates with something dangerous when one believes oneself safe
from it, I felt so much the greater inclination to live with him, and
to enjoy his good qualities, since a confident feeling allowed me to
suspect that he would not turn his bad side towards me. While now, by
this morally restless mind,--by this necessity of treating men in
a malignant and spiteful way, he on one side destroyed social life,
another disquiet, which also he very carefully fostered within himself,
opposed his internal comfort; namely he felt a certain _dilettantish_
impulse to production, in which he indulged the more readily, as he
expressed himself easily and happily in prose and verse, and might well
venture to play a part among the _beaux esprits_ of the time. I myself
still possess poetical epistles, full of uncommon boldness, force,
and Swift-like gall, which are highly remarkable from their original
views of persons and things, but are at the same time written with such
wounding power, that I could not publish them, even at present, but
must either destroy them or preserve them for posterity as striking
documents of the secret discord in our literature. However, the fact
that in all his labours he went to work negatively and destructively,
was unpleasant to himself, and he often declared that he envied me that
innocent love of setting forth a subject which arose from the pleasure
I took both in the original and the imitation.

For the rest, his literary _dilettantism_ would have been rather useful
than injurious to him, if he had not felt an irresistible impulse to
enter also into the technical and mercantile department. For when he
once began to curse his faculties, and was beside himself that he could
not, with sufficient genius, satisfy his claims to a practical talent,
he gave up now plastic art, now poetry, and thought of mercantile and
manufacturing undertakings, which were to bring in money while they
afforded him amusement.

In Darmstadt there was besides a society of very cultivated men.
Privy Councillor von Hess, Minister of the Landgrave, Professor
Petersen, Rector Wenk, and others, were the naturalized persons whose
worth attracted by turns many neighbours from other parts, and many
travellers through the city. The wife of the privy councillor and
her sister, Demoiselle Flachsland, were ladies of uncommon merit
and talents; the latter, who was betrothed to Herder, being doubly
interesting from her own qualities and her attachment to so excellent a
man.

How much I was animated and advanced by this circle is not to be
expressed. They readily heard me read aloud my completed or begun
works; they encouraged me, when I openly and circumstantially told
what I was then planning, and blamed me when on every new occasion I
laid aside what I had already commenced. _Faust_ had already advanced;
_Götz von Berlichingen_ was gradually building itself up in my mind:
the study of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries occupied me; and
the minster had left in me a very serious impression, which could well
stand as a background to such poetical inventions.

[Side-note: Paper on German Architecture.]

What I had thought and imagined with respect to that style of
architecture, I wrote in a connected form. The first point on which I
insisted was, that it should be called German, and not Gothic; that it
should be considered not foreign, but native. The second point was,
that it could not be compared with the architecture of the Greeks and
Romans, because it sprang from quite another principle. If these,
living under a more favourable sky, allowed their roof to rest upon
columns, a wall, broken through, arose of its own accord. We, however,
who must always protect ourselves against the weather, and everywhere
surround ourselves with walls, have to revere the genius who discovered
the means of endowing massive walls with variety, of apparently
breaking them through, and of thus occupying the eye in a worthy and
pleasing manner on the broad surface. The same principle applied to the
steeples, which are not, like cupolas, to form a heaven within, but to
strive towards heaven without, and to announce to the countries far
around the existence of the sanctuary which lies at their base. The
interior of these venerable piles I only ventured to touch by poetical
contemplation and a pious tone.

If I had been pleased to write down these views, the value of which I
will not deny, clearly and distinctly, in an intelligible style, the
paper "On German Architecture, I: M: Ervini a Steinback," would then,
when I published it, have produced more effect, and would sooner have
drawn the attention of the native friends of art. But, misled by the
example of Herder and Hamann, I obscured these very simple thoughts and
observations by a dusty cloud of words and phrases, and both for myself
and others, darkened the light which had arisen within me. However,
the paper was well received, and reprinted in Herder's work on German
manner and art.

If now, partly from inclination, partly with poetical and other
views, I very readily occupied myself with the antiquities of my
country, and sought to render them present to my mind, I was from
time to time distracted from this subject by biblical studies and
religious sympathies, since Luther's life and deeds, which shine forth
so magnificently in the sixteenth century, always necessarily brought
me back to the Holy Scriptures, and to the observation of religious
feelings and opinions. To look upon the Bible as a work of compilation,
which had gradually arisen, and had been elaborated at different
times, was flattering to my little self-conceit, since this view
was then by no means predominant,--much less was it received in the
circle in which I lived. With respect to the chief sense, I adhered to
Luther's expression; in matters of detail, I went to Schmidt's literal
translation, and sought to use my little Hebrew as well as possible.
That there are contradictions in the Bible, no one will now deny.
These they sought to reconcile by laying down the plainest passage as
a foundation, and endeavouring to assimilate to that those that were
contradictory and less clear. I, on the contrary, wished to find out,
by examination, what passage best expressed the sense of the matter. To
this I adhered, and rejected the rest as interpolated.

For a fundamental opinion had already confirmed itself in me, without
my being able to say whether it had been imparted to me, or had been
excited in me, or had arisen from my own reflection. It was this,--that
in anything which is handed down to us, especially in writing, the
real point is the ground, the interior, the sense, the tendency of
the work; that here lies the original, the divine, the effective, the
intact, the indestructible; and that no time, no external operation or
condition, can in any degree affect this internal primeval nature, at
least no more than the sickness of the body affects a well-cultivated
soul. Thus, according to my view, the language, the dialect, the
peculiarity, the style, and finally the writing, were to be regarded as
the body of every work of mind; this body, although nearly enough akin
to the internal, was yet exposed to deterioration and corruption; as,
indeed, altogether no tradition can be given quite pure, according to
its nature; nor, indeed, if one were given pure, could it be perfectly
intelligible at every following period,--the former on account of the
insufficiency of the organs through which the tradition is made,--the
latter on account of the difference of time and place,--but specially
the diversify of human capacities and modes of thought; for which
reason the interpreters themselves never agree.

Hence it is everybody's duty to seek out for what is internal and
peculiar in a book which particularly interests us, and at the same
time, above all things, to weigh in what relation it stands to our
own inner nature, and how far, by that vitality, our own is excited
and rendered fruitful. On the other hand, everything external that is
ineffective with respect to ourselves, or is subject to a doubt, is to
be consigned over to criticism, which, even if it should be able to
dislocate and dismember the whole, would never succeed in depriving us
of the only ground to which we hold fast, nor even in perplexing us for
a moment with respect to our once formed confidence.

[Side-note: Study of the Bible.]

This conviction, sprung from faith and sight, which in all cases that
we recognise as the most important, is applicable and strengthening,
lies at the foundation of the moral as well as the literary edifice of
my life, and is to be regarded as a well-invested and richly productive
capital, although in particular cases we may be seduced into making an
erroneous application. By this notion, the Bible first became really
accessible to me. I had, as is the case in the religious instruction
of Protestants, run through it several times, nay, had made myself
acquainted with it, by way of leaps from beginning to end and back
again. The blunt naturalness of the Old Testament, and the tender
_naïveté_ of the New, had attracted me in particular instances; as a
whole, indeed, it never properly appealed to me; but now the diverse
characters of the different books no more perplexed me; I knew how to
represent to myself their significance faithfully and in proper order,
and had too much feeling for the book to be ever able to do without
it. By this very side of feeling I was protected against all scoffing,
because I saw its dishonesty at once. I not only detested it, but could
even fall in a rage about it; and I still perfectly remember that in my
childishly fanatical zeal I should have completely throttled Voltaire,
on account of his _Saul_, if I could only have got at him. On the
other hand, every kind of honest investigation pleased me greatly; the
revelations as to the locality and costume of the East, which diffused
more and more light, I received with joy, and continued to exercise
all my acuteness on such valuable traditions.

It is known that at an earlier period I sought to initiate myself
into the situation of the world, as described to us by the first book
of Moses. As I now thought to proceed stepwise, and in proper order,
I seized, after a long interruption, on the second book. But what a
difference! Just as the fulness of childhood had vanished from my life,
so did I find the second book separated from the first by a monstrous
chasm. The utter forgetfulness of a bygone time is already expressed
in the few important words, "Now there arose a new king over Egypt,
which knew not Joseph." But the people also, innumerable as the stars
of heaven, had almost forgotten the ancestor to whom, under the starry
heaven, Jehovah had made the very promise which was now fulfilled. I
worked through the five books with unspeakable trouble and insufficient
means and powers, and in doing this fell upon the strangest notions.
I thought I had discovered that it was not our ten commandments which
stood upon the tables that the Israelites did not wander through the
desert for forty years, but only for a short time; and thus I fancied
that I could give entirely new revelations as to the character of Moses.

Even the New Testament was not safe from my inquiries; with my passion
for dissection, I did not spare it, but with love and affection I
chimed in with that wholesome word, "The evangelists may contradict
each other, provided only the gospel does not contradict itself." In
this region also I thought I should make all sorts of discoveries.
That gift of tongues imparted at Pentecost with lustre and clearness,
I interpreted for myself in a somewhat abstruse manner, not adapted to
procure many adherents.

Into one of the chief Lutheran doctrines, which has been still more
sharpened by the Hernhuters,--namely, that of regarding the sinful
principle as predominant in man,--I endeavoured to accommodate myself,
but without remarkable success. Nevertheless I had made the terminology
of this doctrine tolerably my own, and made use of it in a letter,
which, in the character of country pastor, I was pleased to send to a
new brother in office. However, the chief theme in the paper was that
watchword of the time, called "Toleration," which prevailed among the
better order of brains and minds.

Such things, which were produced by degrees, I had printed at my own
cost in the following year, to try myself with the public,--made
presents of them, or sent them to Eichenberg's shop, in order to
get rid of them as fast as possible, without deriving any profit
myself. Here and there a review mentions them, now favourably, now
unfavourably,--but they soon passed away. My father kept them carefully
in his archives, otherwise I should not have possessed a copy of them.
I shall add these, as well as some things of the kind which I have
found, to the new edition of my works.

[Side-note: Hamann.]

Since I had really been seduced into the sybilline style of such
papers, as well as into the publication of them, by Hamann, this
seems to me a proper place to make mention of this worthy and
influential man, who was then as great a mystery to us as he has
always remained to his native country. His _Socratio Memorabilia_ was
more especially liked by those persons who could not adapt themselves
to the dazzling spirit of the time. It was suspected that he was a
profound, well-grounded man, who, accurately acquainted with the
public world and with literature, allowed of something mysterious and
unfathomable, and expressed himself on this subject in a manner quite
his own. By those who then ruled the literature of the day, he was
indeed considered an abstruse mystic, but an aspiring youth suffered
themselves to be attracted by him. Even the "Quiet-in-the-lands," as
they were called--half in jest, half in earnest--those pious souls,
who, without professing themselves members of any society, formed an
invisible church, turned their attention to him; while to my friend
Fräulein von Klettenberg, and no less to her friend Moser, the "Magus
from the North" was a welcome apparition. People put themselves the
more in connexion with him, when they had learned that he was tormented
by narrow domestic circumstances, but nevertheless understood how to
maintain this beautiful and lofty mode of thought. With the great
influence of President von Moser, it would have been easy to provide a
tolerable and convenient existence for such a frugal man. The matter
was set on foot, nay, so good an understanding and mutual approval was
attained, that Hamann undertook the long journey from Königsberg to
Darmstadt. But as the president happened to be absent, that odd man,
no one knows on what account, returned at once, though a friendly
correspondence was kept up. I still possess two letters from the
Königsberger to his patron, which bear testimony to the wondrous
greatness and sincerity of their author.

But so good an understanding was not to last long. These pious men had
thought the other one pious in their own fashion; they had treated
him with reverence as the "Magus of the North," and thought that he
would continue to exhibit himself with a reverend demeanour. But
already in the _Clouds_, an after-piece of _Socratic Memorabilia_, he
had given some offence; and when he now published the _Crusades of a
Philologist_, on the title-page of which was to be seen not only the
goat-profile of a horned Pan, but also on one of the first pages, a
large cock, cut in wood, and setting time to some young cockerels,
who stood before him with notes in their claws, made an exceedingly
ridiculous appearance, by which certain church-music, of which the
author did not approve, was to be made a laughing-stock,--there arose
among well-minded and sensitive people a dissatisfaction, which was
exhibited to the author, who, not being edified by it, shunned a closer
connexion. Our attention to this man was, however, always kept alive
by Herder, who, remaining in correspondence with us and his betrothed,
communicated to us at once all that proceeded from that extraordinary
man. To these belonged his critiques and notices, inserted in the
_Königsberg Zeitung_, all of which bore a very singular character.
I possess an almost complete collection of his works, and a very
important essay on Herder's prize paper concerning the origin of
language, in which, in the most peculiar manner, he throws flashes of
light upon this specimen of Herder.

I do not give up the hope of superintending myself, or at least
furthering, an edition of Hamann's works; and then, when these
documents are again before the public, it will be time to speak more
closely of the author, his nature and character. In the meanwhile,
however, I will here adduce something concerning him, especially as
eminent men are still living who felt a great regard for him, and
whose assent or correction will be very welcome to me. The principle
to which all Hamann's expressions may be referred is this: "All that
man undertakes to perform, whether by deed, by word, or otherwise,
must proceed from all his powers united; everything isolated is
worthless." A noble maxim, but hard to follow. To life and art it may
indeed be applied, but in every communication by words, that is not
exactly poetic, there is, on the contrary, a grand difficulty; for a
word must sever itself, isolate itself, to say or signify anything.
Man, while he speaks, must, for the moment, become one-sided; there is
no communication, no instruction, without severing. Now since Hamann,
once for all, opposed this separation, and because he felt, imagined,
and thought in unity, chose to speak in unity likewise, and to require
the same of others, he came into opposition with his own style, and
with all that others produced. To produce the impossible, he therefore
grasps at every element; the deepest and most mystical contemplations
in which nature and mind meet each other-illuminating flashes of the
understanding, which beam forth from such a contact--significant
images, which float in these regions--forcible aphorisms from sacred
and profane writers--with whatever else of a humorous kind could be
added--all this forms the wondrous aggregate of his style and his
communications. If, now, one cannot associate oneself with him in his
depths--cannot wander with him on his heights--cannot master the forms
which float before him--cannot, from an infinitely extended literature,
exactly find out the sense of a passage which is only hinted at--we
find that the more we study him, the more dim and dark it becomes;
and this darkness always increases with years, because his allusions
were directed to certain definite peculiarities which prevailed, for
the moment, in life and in literature. In my collection there are some
of his printed sheets, where he has cited with his own hand, in the
margin, the passages to which his hints refer. If one opens them, there
is again a sort of equivocal double light, which appears to us highly
agreeable; only one must completely renounce what is ordinarily called
understanding. Such leaves merit to be called sybilline, for this
reason, that one cannot consider them in and for themselves, but must
wait for an opportunity to seek refuge with their oracles. Every time
that one opens them one fancies one has found something new, because
the sense which abides in every passage touches and excites us in a
curious manner.

Personally I never saw him; nor did I hold any immediate communication
with him by means of letters. It seems to me that he was extremely
clear in the relations of life and friendship, and that he had a
correct feeling for the positions of persons among each other,
and with reference to himself. All the letters which I saw by him
were excellent, and much plainer than his works, because here the
reference to time, circumstances, and personal affairs, was more
clearly prominent. I thought, however, that I could discern this much
generally, that he, feeling the superiority of his mental gifts, in the
most _naïve_ manner, always considered himself somewhat wiser and more
shrewd than his correspondents, whom he treated rather ironically than
heartily. If this held good only of single cases, it applied to the
majority, as far as my own observation went, and was the cause that I
never felt a desire to approach him.

On the other hand, a kindly literary communication between Herder and
us was maintained with great vivacity, though it was a pity that he
could not keep himself quiet. But Herder never left off his teazing
and scolding; and much was not required to irritate Merck, who also
contrived to excite me to impatience. Because now Herder, among all
authors and men, seems to respect Swift the most, he was among us
called the "Dean," and this gave further occasion to all sorts of
perplexities and annoyances.

Nevertheless we were highly pleased when we learned that he was to
have an appointment at Bückeburg, which would bring him double honour,
for his new patron had the highest fame as a clear-headed and brave,
though eccentric man. Thomas Abt had been known and celebrated in this
service; his country still mourned his death, and was pleased with
the monument which his patron had erected for him. Now Herder, in the
place of the untimely deceased, was to fulfil all those hopes which his
predecessor had so worthily excited.

The epoch in which this happened gave a double brilliancy and value to
such an appointment; for several German princes already followed the
example of the Count of Lippe, inasmuch as they took into their service
not merely learned men, and men of business, properly so called, but
also persons of mind and promise. Thus, it was said, Klopstock had
been invited by the Margrave Charles of Baden, not for real business,
but that by his presence he might impart a grace and be useful to the
higher society. As now the regard felt for this excellent prince,
who paid attention to all that was useful and beautiful, increased
in consequence, so also was the veneration for Klopstock not a
little heightened. Everything that emanated from him was held dear
and valuable; and we carefully wrote down his odes and elegies as we
could get them. We were therefore highly delighted when the great
Land-gravine Caroline of Hesse-Darmstadt made a collection of them,
and we obtained possession of one of the few copies, which enabled us
to complete our own manuscript collection. Hence those first readings
have long been most in favour with us; nay, we have often refreshed and
delighted ourselves with poems which the author afterwards rejected.
So true it is, that the life which presses forth out of a "fine soul"
works with the greater freedom the less it appears to be drawn by
criticism into the department of art.

Klopstock, by his character and conduct, had managed to attain regard
and dignity, both for himself and for other men of talent; now they
were also, if possible, to be indebted to him for the security and
improvement of their domestic condition. For the book-trade, in the
previous period, had more to do with important scientific books,
belonging to the different faculties--with stock-works, for which a
moderate remuneration was paid. But the production of poetical works
was looked upon as something sacred; and in this case the acceptance or
increase of any remuneration would have been regarded almost as simony.
Authors and publishers stood in the strangest reciprocal position.
Both appeared, accordingly as it was taken, as patrons and clients.
The authors, who, irrespectively of their talent, were generally
respected and levered by the public as highly moral men, had a mental
rank, and felt themselves rewarded by the success of their labours;
the publishers were well satisfied with the second place, and enjoyed
a considerable profit. But now opulence again set the rich bookseller
above the poor poet, and thus everything stood in the most beautiful
equilibrium. Magnanimity and gratitude were not unfrequent on either
side. Breitkopf and Gottsched lived, all their lives, as inmates of the
same house. Stinginess and meanness, especially that of piracy, were
not yet in vogue.

[Side-note: Commotion in the Book-Trade.]

Nevertheless a general commotion had arisen among the German authors.
They compared their own very moderate, if not poor condition, with
the wealth of the eminent booksellers; they considered how great was
the fame of a Gellert, of a Rabener, and in what narrow domestic
circumstances an universally esteemed German poet must struggle
on, if he did not render life easy by some other calling. Even the
mediocre and lesser minds felt a strong desire to see their situation
improved,--to make themselves free of the publishers.

Now Klopstock came forward and offered his "Republic of Letters"
(_Gelehrte-Republik_) for subscription. Although the latter cantos of
the _Messiah_, partly on account of their subject, partly on account of
the treatment, could not produce the same effect as the earlier ones,
which, themselves pure and innocent, came into a pure and innocent
time, the same respect was always maintained for the poet, who, by
the publication of his odes, had drawn to himself the hearts, minds,
and feelings of many persons. Many well-thinking men, among whom were
several of great influence, offered to secure payment beforehand. This
was fixed at a _Louis d'or_, the object being, it was said, not so much
to pay for the book, as on this occasion to reward the author for his
services to his country. Now every one pressed forward; even youths and
young girls, who had not much to expend, opened their saving-boxes; men
and women, the higher and the middle classes, contributed to this holy
offering; and perhaps a thousand subscribers, all paying in advance,
were collected. Expectation was raised to the highest pitch, and
confidence was as great as possible.

After this, the work, on its appearance, was compelled to experience
the strangest result in the world; it was, indeed, of important value,
but by no means universally interesting. Klopstock's thoughts on poetry
and literature were set forth in the form of an old German Druidical
republic; his maxims on the true and false were expressed in pithy
laconic aphorisms, in which, however, much that was instructive was
sacrificed to the singularity of form. For authors and _littérateurs_,
the book was and is invaluable; but it was only in this circle that
it could be useful and effective. He who had thought himself followed
the thinker; he who knew how to seek and prize what was genuine, found
himself instructed by the profound, honest man; but the amateur, the
general reader, was not enlightened,--to him the book remained sealed;
and yet it had been placed in all hands; and while every one expected
a perfectly serviceable work, most of them obtained one from which
they could not get the smallest taste. The astonishment was general,
but the esteem for the man was so great, that no grumbling, scarcely a
murmur, arose. The young and beautiful part of the world got over their
loss, and now freely gave away the copies they had so dearly purchased.
I received several from kind female friends, but none of them have
remained with me.

This undertaking, which was successful to the author, but a failure
to the public, had the ill consequence, that there was now no further
thought about subscriptions and prepayments; nevertheless the wish
had been too generally diffused for the attempt not to be renewed.
The Dessau publishing-house now offered to do this on a large scale.
Learned men and publishers were here, by a close compact, to enjoy,
both in a certain proportion, the hoped-for advantage. The necessity,
so long painfully felt, again awakened a great confidence; but this
could not last long; and after a brief endeavour the parties separated,
with a loss on both sides.

[Side-note: Combination of young poets.]

However, a speedy communication among the friends of literature was
already introduced. The _Musenalmanache_[1] united all the young poets
with each other; the journals united the poet with other authors. My
own pleasure in production was boundless; to what I had produced I
remained indifferent; only when, in social circles, I made it present
to myself and others, my affection for it was renewed. Moreover, many
persons took an interest in both my larger and smaller works, because
I urgently pressed every one who felt in any degree inclined and
adapted to production, to produce something independently, after his
own fashion, and was, in turn, challenged by all to new poetising and
writing. These mutual impulses, which were carried even to an extreme,
gave every one a happy influence in his own fashion; and from this
whirling and working, this living and letting-live, this taking and
giving, which was carried on by so many youths, from their own free
hearts, without any theoretical guiding-star, according to the innate
character of each, and without any special design, arose that famed,
extolled, and decried epoch in literature, when a mass of young genial
men, with all that audacity and assumption which is peculiar to their
own period of youth, produced, by the application of their powers,
much that was good, and by the abuse of these, much ill-feeling and
mischief; and it is, indeed, the action and reaction which proceeded
from this source, that form the chief theme of this volume.

In what can young people take the highest interest, how are they to
excite interest among those of their own age, if they are not animated
by love, and if affairs of the heart, of whatever kind they may be, are
not living within them? I had in secret to complain of a love I had
lost; this made me mild and tolerant, and more agreeable to society
than in those brilliant times when nothing reminded me of a want or a
fault, and I went storming along completely without restraint.

Frederica's answer to a written adieu rent my heart. It was the same
hand, the same tone of thought, the same feeling, which had formed
itself for me and by me. I now, for the first time, felt the loss which
she suffered, and saw no means to supply it, or even to alleviate it.
She was completely present to me; I always felt that she was wanting to
me and, what was worst of all, I could not forgive myself for my own
misfortune. Gretchen had been taken away from me; Annette had left me;
now, for the first time, I was guilty I had wounded the most beautiful
heart to its very depths; and the period of a gloomy repentance, with
the absence of a refreshing love, to which I had grown accustomed,
was most agonising, nay, insupportable. But man will live; and hence
I took an honest interest in others; I sought to disentangle their
embarrassments, and to unite what was about to part, that they might
not have the same lot as myself. They were hence accustomed to call
me the "confidant," and on account of wandering about the district,
the "wanderer." In producing that calm for my mind, which I felt under
the open sky, in the valleys, on the heights, in the fields and in the
woods, the situation of Frankfort was serviceable, as it lay in the
middle between Darmstadt and Hamburg, two pleasant places, which are on
good terms with each other, through the relationship of both courts. I
accustomed myself to live on the road, and, like a messenger, to wander
about between the mountains and the flat country. Often I went alone,
or in company, through my native city, as if it did not at all concern
me, dined at one of the great inns in the High-street, and after dinner
went further on my way. More than ever was I directed to the open
world and to free nature. On my way I sang to myself strange hymns
and dithyrambics, of which one entitled "The Wanderer's Storm-song"
(_Wanderer's Sturmlied_) still remains. This half-nonsense I sang
aloud, in an impassioned manner, when I found myself in a terrific
storm, which I was obliged to meet.

My heart was untouched and unoccupied; I conscientiously avoided all
closer connexion with ladies, and thus it remained concealed from me,
that, inattentive and unconscious as I was, an amiable spirit was
secretly hovering round me. It was not until many years afterwards,
nay, until after her death, that I learned of her secret heavenly
love, in a manner that necessarily overwhelmed me. But I was innocent,
and could purely and honestly pity an innocent being; nay, I could do
this the more, as the discovery occurred at an epoch when, completely
without passion, I had the happiness of living for myself and my own
intellectual inclinations.

At the time when I was pained by my grief at Frederica's situation,
I again, after my old fashion, sought aid from poetry. I again
continued the poetical confession which I had commenced, that by this
self-tormenting penance I might be worthy of an internal absolution.
The two Marias in _Götz von Berlichingen_ and _Clavigo_, and the two
bad characters who play the part of their lovers, may have been the
results of such penitent reflections.

[Side-note: Skating.]

But as in youth one soon overcomes mental wounds and diseases, because
a healthy system of organic life can rise up for a sick one, and
allow it time to grow healthy again, corporeal exercises, on many a
favourable opportunity, came forward with very advantageous effect;
and I was excited in many ways to man myself afresh, and to seek new
pleasures of life and enjoyments. Riding gradually took the place of
those sauntering, melancholy, toilsome, and at the same time tedious
and aimless rambles on foot; one reached one's end more quickly,
merrily, and commodiously. The young people again introduced fencing,
but in particular, on the setting-in of winter, a new world was
revealed to us, since I at once determined to skate,--an exercise
which I had never attempted,--and, in a short time, by practice,
reflection, and perseverance, brought it as far as was necessary to
enjoy with others a gay, animated course on the ice, without wishing to
distinguish myself.

For this new joyous activity we were also indebted to Klopstock,--to
his enthusiasm for this happy species of motion, which private accounts
confirmed, while his odes gave an undeniable evidence of it. I still
exactly remember that on a cheerful frosty morning I sprang out of bed,
and uttered aloud these passages:--

    "Already, glad with feeling of health,
     Far down along the shore, I have whiten'd
     The covering crystal.

    'How does the winter's advancing day
     Softly illumine the lake! The night has cast
     The glittering frost, like stars, upon it.'

My hesitating and wavering resolution was fixed at once, and I flew
straight to the place where so old a beginner might with some degree
of propriety make his first trial. And, indeed, this manifestation of
our strength well deserved to be commended by Klopstock, for it is an
exercise which brings us into contact with the freshest childhood,
summons the youth to the full enjoyment of his suppleness, and is
fitted to keep off a stagnant old age. We were immoderately addicted
to this pleasure. To pass thus a splendid Sunday on the ice did not
satisfy us, we continued our movement late into the night. For as other
exertions fatigue the body, so does this give it a constantly new
power. The full moon rising from the clouds, over the wide nocturnal
meadows, which were frozen into fields of ice; the night-breeze, which
rustled towards us on our course; the solemn thunder of the ice, which
sank as the water decreased; the strange echo of our own movements,
rendered the scenes of Ossian just present to our minds. Now this
friend, now that, uttered an ode of Klopstock's, in a declamatory
recitative; and if we found ourselves together at dawn, the unfeigned
praise of the author of our joys broke forth:--

    "And should he not be immortal,
     Who found for us health and joys
     Which the horse, though bold in his course, never gave,
     And which even the ball is without?"

Such gratitude is earned by a man who knows how to honour and worthily
to extend an earthly act by spiritual incitement.

And thus, as children of talent, whose mental gifts have, at an early
period, been cultivated to an extraordinary degree, return, if they
can, to the simplest sports of youth, did we, too, often forget our
calling to more serious things. Nevertheless this very motion, so
often carried on in solitude--this agreeable soaring in undetermined
space--again excited many of my internal wants, which had, for a time,
lain dormant; and I have been indebted to such hours for a more speedy
elaboration of older plans.

The darker ages of German history had always occupied my desire for
knowledge and my imagination. The thought of dramatizing _Götz von
Berlichingen_, with all the circumstances of his time, was one which
I much liked and valued. I industriously read the chief authors; to
Datt's work, _De Pace Publica_, I devoted all my attention; I had
sedulously studied it through, and rendered those singular details as
visible to me as possible. These endeavours, which were directed to
moral and poetical ends, I could also use in another direction, and
I was now to visit Wetzlar. I had sufficient historical preparation;
for the Imperial Chamber had arisen in consequence of the public
tranquillity, and its history could serve as an important clue through
the confused events of Germany. Indeed, the constitution of the courts
and armies gives the most accurate insight into the constitution of
every empire. Even the finances, the influence of which are considered
so important, come much less under consideration; for if the whole is
deficient, it is only necessary to take from the individual what he has
laboriously scraped together, and thus the state is always sufficiently
rich.

What occurred to me at Wetzlar is of no great importance, but it may
inspire a greater interest, if the reader will not disdain a cursory
history of the Imperial Chamber, in order to render present to his mind
the unfavourable moment at which I arrived there.

[Side-note: History of the Imperial Chamber.]

The lords of the earth are such, principally because they can assemble
around them, in war, the bravest and most resolute, and in peace, the
wisest and most just. Even to the state of a German emperor belonged
a court of this kind, which always accompanied him in his expeditions
through the empire. But neither this precaution, nor the Suabian law,
which prevailed in the south of Germany, nor the Saxon law, which
prevailed in the north,--neither the judges appointed to maintain them,
nor the decisions of the peers of the contending parties,--neither
the umpires recognised by agreement, nor friendly compacts instituted
by the clergy,--nothing, in short, could quiet that excited chivalric
spirit of feuds which had been roused, fostered, and made a custom
among the Germans, by internal discord, by foreign campaigns, by the
crusades especially, and even by judicial usages. To the emperor,
as well as to the powerful estates, these squabbles were extremely
annoying, while, through them, the less powerful became troublesome
to each other, and if they combined, to the great also. All outward
strength was paralysed, while internal order was destroyed; and besides
this, a great part of the country was still encumbered with the
_Vehmgericht_, of the horrors of which a notion may be formed, if we
think that it degenerated into a secret police, which, at last, even
fell into the hands of private persons.

Many attempts to steer against these evils had been made in vain,
until, at last, the estates urgently proposed a court formed from
among themselves. This proposal, well-meant as it might have been,
nevertheless indicated an extension of the privileges of the estates,
and a limitation of the imperial power. Under Frederic III. the matter
is delayed; his son Maximilian, being pressed from without, complies.
He appoints the chief judge, the estates send the assistants. There
were to be four-and-twenty of them; but, at first, twelve are thought
sufficient.

An universal fault, of which men are guilty in their under-takings, was
the first and perpetual fundamental defect of the Imperial Chamber:
insufficient means were applied to a great end. The number of the
assessors was too small. How was the difficult and extensive problem
to be solved by them? But who could urge an efficient arrangement?
The emperor could not favour an institution which seemed to work more
against him than for him; far more reason had he to complete the
formation of his own court--his own council. If, on the other hand,
we regard the interest of the estates, all that they could properly
have to do with was the stoppage of bloodshed. Whether the wound was
healed, did not so much concern them: and now there was to be, besides,
a new expense. It may not have been quite plainly seen that by this
institution every prince increased his retinue, for a decided end
indeed,--but who readily gives money for what is necessary? Every one
would be satisfied, if he could have what is useful "for God's sake."

At first the assistants were to live on fees; then followed a moderate
grant from the estates; both were scanty. But to meet the great and
striking exigency, willing, clever, and industrious men were found,
and the court was established. Whether it was perceived that the
question here was concerning only the alleviation and not the cure
of the evil, or whether, as in similar cases, the flattering hope
was entertained that much was to be done with little, is not to be
decided. It is enough that the court served rather as a pretext to
punish the originators of mischief, than completely to prevent wrong.
But it has scarcely met, than a power grows out of itself; it feels the
eminence on which it is placed; it recognises its own great political
importance. It now endeavours, by a striking activity, to acquire for
itself a more decided respect; they briskly got through what can and
must be rapidly dispatched, what can be decided at the moment, or what
can otherwise be easily judged; and thus, throughout the empire, they
appear effective and dignified. On the other hand, matters of weightier
import, the law-suits, properly so called, remained behindhand,
and this was no misfortune. The only concern of the state is, that
possession shall be certain and secure; whether it is also legal, is of
less consequence. Hence, from the monstrous and ever-swelling number
of delayed suits, no mischief arose to the empire. Against people who
employed force, provision was already made, and with such matters could
be settled; but those, on the other hand, who legally disputed about
possession, lived, enjoyed, or starved, as they could; they died, were
ruined, or made it up; but all this was the good or evil of individual
families,--the empire was gradually tranquillised. For the Imperial
Chamber was endowed with a legal club-law against the disobedient; had
it been able to hurl the bolt of excommunication, this would have been
more effective.

But now, what with the sometimes increased, sometimes diminished
number of assessors, what with the many interruptions, what with the
removal of the court from one place to another, these arrears, these
records necessarily increased to an infinite extent. Now, in the
distress of war, a part of the archives was sent for safety from Spire
to Aschaffenburg, a part to Worms, the third fell into the hands of
the French, who thought they had gained the state-archives, but would
afterwards have been glad to get rid of such a chaos of paper, if any
one would but have furnished the carriages.

During the negotiations for the peace of Westphalia, the chosen men,
who were assembled, plainly saw what sort of a lever was required to
move from its place a load like that of Sisyphus. Fifty assessors were
now to be appointed, but the number was never made up: the half of it
was again made to suffice, because the expense appeared too great;
but if the parties interested had all seen their advantage in the
matter, the whole might well have been afforded. To pay five-and-twenty
assessors about one hundred thousand florins (_gulden_) were required,
and how easily could double that amount have been raised in Germany?
The proposition to endow the Imperial Chamber with confiscated church
property could not pass, for how could the two religious parties agree
to such a sacrifice? The Catholics were not willing to lose any more,
and the Protestants wished to employ what they had gained, each for his
own private ends. The division of the empire into two religious parties
had here, in several respects, the worst influence. The interest which
the estates took in this their court diminished more and more; the more
powerful wished to free themselves from the confederation; licenses
exempting their possessor from being prosecuted before any higher
tribunal were sought with more and more eagerness; the greater kept
back with their payments, while the lesser, who, moreover, believed
themselves wronged in the estimates, delayed as long as they could.

How difficult was it, therefore, to raise the supplies necessary for
payment. Hence arose a new occupation, a new loss of time for the
chamber; previously the so-called annual "visitations" had taken care
of this matter. Princes in person, or their councillors, went only
for months or weeks to the place of the court, examined the state of
the treasury, investigated the arrears, and undertook to get them in.
At the same time, if anything was about to create an impediment in
the course of law or the court, or any abuse to creep in, they were
authorised to provide a remedy. The faults of the institution they
were to discover and remove, but it was not till afterwards that the
investigation and punishment of the personal crimes of its members
became a part of their duty. But because parties engaged in litigation
always like to extend their hopes a moment longer, and on this account
always seek and appeal to higher authorities, so did these "visitators"
become a court of revision, from which, at first in determined manifest
cases, persons hoped to find restitution, but at last in all cases,
delay and perpetuation of the controversy, to which the appeal to the
Imperial diet, and the endeavour of the two religious parties, if
not to outweigh each other, at any rate to preserve an equilibrium,
contributed their part.

But if one considers what this court might have been without such
obstacles, without such disturbing and destructive conditions, one
cannot imagine it remarkable and important enough. Had it been supplied
at the beginning with a sufficient number of persons, had a sufficient
support been secured to them, the monstrous influence which this body
might have attained, considering the aptness of the Germans, would have
been immeasurable. The honourable title of "Amphictyons," which was
only bestowed on them oratorically, they would actually have deserved,
nay, they might have elevated themselves into an intermediate power,
while revered by the head and the members.

But far removed from such great effects, the court, excepting for a
short time under Charles V., and before the Thirty Years' war, dragged
itself miserably along. One often cannot understand how men could be
found for such a thankless and melancholy employment. But what a man
does every day he puts up with, if he has any talent for it, even if
he does not exactly see that anything will come of it. The German
especially is of this persevering turn of mind, and thus for three
hundred years the worthiest men have employed themselves on these
labours and objects. A characteristic gallery of such figures would
even now excite interest and inspire courage.

For it is just in such anarchical times that the able man takes the
strongest position, and he who desires what is good finds himself right
in his place. Thus, for instance, the _Directorium_ of Fürstenberg was
still held in blessed memory, and with the death of this excellent man
begins the epoch of many pernicious abuses.

But all these defects, whether later or earlier, arose from one only
original source, the small number of persons. It was decreed that the
assistants were to act in a fixed order, and according to a determined
arrangement. Every one could know when the turn would come to him, and
which of the cases belonging to him it would affect; he could work
up to this point,--he could prepare himself. But now the innumerable
arrears had heaped themselves up, and they were forced to resolve to
select the more important cases, and to deal with them out of order.
But with a pressure of important affairs, the decision as to which
matter has the more weight, is difficult, and selection leaves room for
favour. Now, another critical case occurred. The _Referent_ tormented
both himself and the court with a difficult involved affair, and at
last no one was found willing to take up the judgment. The parties had
come to an agreement, had separated, had died, had changed their minds.
Hence they resolved to take in hand only the cases of which they were
reminded. They wished to be convinced of the continued obstinacy of the
parties, and hence was given an introduction to the greatest defects,
for he who commends his affairs, must commend them to somebody, and to
whom can one commend them better, than to him who has them already in
his hands? To keep this one regularly secret was impossible; for how
could he remain concealed with so many subordinates, all acquainted
with the matter? If acceleration is requested, favour may well be
requested likewise, for the very fact that people urge their cause,
shows that they consider it just. This will perhaps not be done in a
direct manner, certainly it will be first done through subordinates;
these must be gained over, and thus an introduction is given to all
sorts of intrigues and briberies.

The Emperor Joseph, following his own impulse, and in imitation of
Frederic, first directed his attention to arms and the administration
of justice. He cast his eyes upon the Imperial Chamber; traditional
wrongs, introduced abuses had not remained unknown to him. Even here
something was to be stirred up, shaken, and done. Without inquiring
whether it was his imperial right, without foreseeing the possibility
of a happy result, he proposed a revival of the "visitation," and
hastened its opening. For one hundred and sixty years no regular
"visitation" had taken place; a monstrous chaos of papers lay swelled
up and increased every year, since the seventeen assessors were not
even able to despatch the current business. Twenty thousand processes
were heaped up; sixty could be settled every year, and double that
number was brought forward. Besides, it was not a small number of
revisions that awaited the "visitators,"--they were estimated at fifty
thousand. Many other abuses, in addition to this, hindered the course
of justice; but the most critical matter of all was the personal
delinquency of some assessors, which appeared in the background.

[Side-note: The "visitation" at Wetzlar.]

When I was about to go to Wetzlar, the "visitation" had been already
for some years in operation, the parties accused had been suspended
from office, the investigation had been carried a long way; and because
the masters and commissioners of German political law could not let
pass this opportunity of exhibiting their sagacity and devoting it
to the common weal, several profound, well-designed works appeared,
from which every one, who possessed only some preparatory knowledge,
could derive solid instruction. When on this occasion they went back
into the constitution of the empire and the books written upon it,
it was striking to me how the monstrous condition of this thoroughly
diseased body, which was kept alive by a miracle alone, was the very
thing that most suited the learned. For the venerable German industry,
which was more directed to the collection and development of details
than to results, found here an inexhaustible impulse to new employment,
and whether the empire was opposed to the Emperor, the lesser to
the greater estates, or the Catholics to the Protestants, there was
necessarily always, according to the diversity of interest, a diversity
of opinion, and always an occasion for new contests and controversies.

Since I had rendered all these older and newer circumstances as present
to my mind as possible, it was impossible for me to promise myself
much pleasure from my abode at Wetzlar. The prospect of finding in a
city, which was indeed well situated, but small and ill-built, a double
world; first the domestic, old traditional world, then a foreign new
one, authorized to scrutinize the other with severity,--a judging
and a judged tribunal; many an inhabitant in fear and anxiety, lest
he might also be drawn into the impending investigation; persons of
consideration, long held in respect, convicted of the most scandalous
misdeeds, and marked out for disgraceful punishment;--all this together
made the most dismal picture, and could not lure me to go deeper into a
business, which, involved in itself, seemed so much perplexed by wrong.

That, excepting the German civil and public law, I should find
nothing remarkable in the scientific way, that I should be without
all poetical communication, I thought I could foresee, when, after
some delay, the desire of altering my situation more than impulse to
knowledge led me to this spot. But how surprised I was, when, instead
of a crabbed society, a third academical life sprang towards me. At a
large _table d'hôte_ I found a number of young lively people, nearly
all subordinates to the commission; they gave me a friendly reception,
and the very first day it remained no secret to me that they had
cheered their noon-meetings by a romantic fiction. With much wit and
cheerfulness they represented a table of knights. At the top sat the
grand-master, by his side the chancellor, then the most important
officers of the state; now followed the knights, according to their
seniority. Strangers, on the other hand, who visited, were forced to
be content with the lowest places, and to these the conversation was
almost unintelligible, because the language of the society, in addition
to the chivalric expressions, was enriched with many allusions. To
every one a name with an epithet was assigned. Me they called "Götz
von Berlichingen the honest." The former I earned by the attention
to the gallant German patriarch, the latter by my upright affection
and devotion for the eminent men with whom I became acquainted. To
the Count von Kielmannsegg I was much indebted during this residence.
He was the most serious of all, highly clever, and to be relied on.
There was Von Goué, a man hard to be deciphered and described, a
blunt, kind, quietly reserved Hanoverian figure. He was not wanting
in talent of various kinds. It was conjectured concerning him that he
was a natural son; he loved, besides, a certain mysterious deportment,
and concealed his most peculiar wishes and plans under various
eccentricities, as indeed he was, properly speaking, the very soul of
the odd confederation of knights, without having striven to attain the
post of grand-master. On the contrary, when, just at this time, the
head of the knighthood departed, he caused another to be elected, and
through him exercised his influence. Thus he managed so to direct
several little trifles, that they appeared of importance, and could be
carried out in mythical forms. But with all this no serious purpose
could be remarked in him,--he was only concerned to get rid of the
tedium which he and his colleagues, during their protracted occupation,
necessarily felt, and to fill up the empty space, if only with cobwebs.
For the rest, this mythical caricature was carried on with great
external seriousness, and no one found it ridiculous if a certain mill
was treated as a castle, and the miller as lord of the fortress, if
the "Four Sons of Haimon" was declared a canonical book, and on the
occasion of ceremonies, extracts from it were read with veneration. The
dubbing of knights took place with traditional symbols, borrowed from
several orders of knighthood. A chief motive for jest was the fact,
that what was manifest was treated as a secret; the affair was carried
on publicly, and yet nothing was to be said about it. The list of the
whole body of knights was printed with as much importance as a calendar
of the Imperial diet, and if families ventured to scoff at this, and to
declare the whole matter absurd and ridiculous, they were punished by
an intrigue being carried on until a solemn husband or near relation
was induced to join the company and to be dubbed a knight; for then
there was a splendid burst of malicious joy at the annoyance of the
connexions.

[Side-note: Whimsical Societies at Wetzlar.]

Into this chivalric state of existence another strange order had
insinuated itself, which was to be philosophical and mystical, and
had no name of its own. The first degree was called the "Transition,"
the second the "Transition's transition," the third the "Transition's
transition to the transition," and the fourth the "Transition's
transition to the transition's transition." To interpret the high sense
of this series of degrees was now the duty of the initiated, and this
was done according to the standard of a little printed book, in which
these strange words were explained, or rather amplified, in a manner
still more strange. Occupation with these things was the most desirable
pastime. The folly of Behrisch and the perversity of Lenz seemed here
to have united themselves; I only repeat that not a trace of purpose
was to be found behind these veils.

Although I very readily took part in such fooleries, had first brought
into order the extracts from "The Four Sons of Haimon," made proposals
how they should be read on feasts and solemn occasions, and even
understood how to deliver them myself with great emphasis, I had,
nevertheless, grown weary of such things before, and therefore as I
missed my Frankfort and Darmstadt circles, I was highly pleased to
have found Gotter, who attached himself to me with honest affection,
and to whom I showed in return a hearty good-will. His turn of mind
was delicate, clear, and cheerful, his talents were practised and
well regulated, he aimed at French elegance, and was pleased with
that part of English literature which is occupied with moral and
agreeable subjects. We passed together many pleasant hours, in which
we communicated to each other our knowledge, plans, and inclinations.
He excited me to many little works, especially as, being in connexion
with the people of Göttingen, he desired some of my poems for Boie's
_Almanach._

I thus came into contact with those, who, young and hill of talent,
held themselves together, and afterwards effected so much and in such
various ways. The two Counts Stolberg, Bürger, Voss, Hölty, and others
were assembled in faith and spirit around Klopstock, whose influence
extended in every direction. In such a poetical circle, which more and
more extended itself, was developed at the same time with such manifold
poetical merits, another turn of mind, to which I can give no exactly
proper name. It might be called the need of independence, which always
arises in time of peace, and exactly when, properly speaking, one is
not dependent. In war we bear the rude force as well as we can, we feel
ourselves physically and economically, but not morally, wounded; the
constraint shames no one, and it is no disgraceful service to serve
the time; we accustom ourselves to suffer from foes and friends; we
have wishes, but no particular views. In peace, on the contrary, man's
love of freedom becomes more and more prominent, and the more free one
is, the more free one wishes to be. We will not tolerate anything over
us; we will not be restrained, no one shall be restrained; and this
tender, nay, morbid feeling, appears in noble souls under the form of
justice. This spirit and feeling then showed itself everywhere, and
just because few were oppressed, it was wished to free even these from
temporary oppression, and thus arose a certain moral feud, a mixture of
individuals with the government, which, with laudable beginnings, led
to inevitably unfortunate results.

[Side-note: Difficulty of German patriotism.]

Voltaire, by the protection which he had bestowed on the family of
Calas, had excited great attention and made himself respected. In
Germany the attempt of Lavater against the _Landvogt_ (sheriff of the
province) had been almost more striking and important. The æsthetical
feeling, united with youthful courage, strove forward, and as, shortly
before, persons had studied to obtain offices, they now began to
act as overlookers of those in office; and the time was near when
the dramatist and novelist loved best to seek their villains among
ministers and official persons. Hence arose a world, half real, half
imaginary, of action and reaction, in which we afterwards lived to see
the most violent imputations and instigations, which the writers of
periodical publications and journals with a sort of passion allowed
themselves under the garb of justice, and went to work the more
irresistibly, as they made the public believe that it was itself the
true tribunal--a foolish notion, as no public has an executive power,
and in dismembered Germany public opinion neither benefited nor injured
any one.

Among us young people there was indeed nothing to be traced, which
could have been culpable, but a certain similar notion, composed of
poetry, morality, and a noble striving, and which was harmless but yet
fruitless, had taken possession of us.

By his _Hermann's-Schlacht_,[2] and the dedication of it to Joseph
the Second, Klopstock had produced a wonderful excitement. The
Germans who freed themselves from Roman oppression were nobly and
powerfully represented, and this picture was well suited to awaken
the self-feeling of a nation. But because in peace patriotism really
consists only in this, that every one sweeps his own door, minds his
own business, and learns his own lesson, that it may go well with his
house,--so did the feeling for fatherland, excited by Klopstock, find
no object on which it could exercise itself. Frederic had saved the
honour of one part of the Germans against an united world, and every
member of the nation, by applause and reverence of this great prince,
was allowed to share in his victory; but what was to come of this
excited, warlike spirit of defiance? what direction should it take,
and what effect produce? At first it was merely a poetical form, and
the songs ridiculous, were accumulated through this impulse,--this
incitement. There were no external enemies to fight; so people made
tyrants for themselves, and for this purpose princes and their servants
were obliged to bestow their figures, first only in general outline,
but gradually with particulars. Here it was that poetry attached itself
with vehemence to that interference with the administration of justice,
which is blamed above; and it is remarkable to see poems of that time
written in a spirit by which everything of a higher order, whether
monarchical or aristocratic, is abolished.

For my own part, I continued to make poetry the expression of my own
whims and feelings. Little poems like the "Wanderer" belong to this
time; they were inserted in the _Göttingen Musenalmanach._ But from
whatever of the above-mentioned mania had worked itself into me, I
shortly endeavoured to free myself in _Götz von Berlichingen_, since
I described how in disordered times this brave, well-thinking man
resolves to take the place of the law and the executive power, but is
in despair when, to the supreme authority, which he recognises and
reveres, he appears in an equivocal light, and even rebellious.

By Klopstock's odes, it was not so much the Northern mythology as the
nomenclature of the divinities, that had been introduced into German
poetry; and although I gladly made use of everything else that was
offered me, I could not bring myself to use this, for the following
causes: I had long become acquainted with the fables of the Edda, from
the preface to Mallet's _Danish History_, and had at once made myself
master of them. They belonged to those tales which, when asked by a
company, I most willingly related. Herder put Resenius into my hands,
and made me better acquainted with the heroic _sagas._ But all these
things, worthy as I held them, I could not bring within the circle
of my own poetic faculty. Nobly as they excited my imagination, they
nevertheless entirely withdrew themselves from the sensuous perception,
while the mythology of the Greeks, changed by the greatest artists in
the world into visible, easily imagined forms, still existed before
our own eyes in abundance. Gods in general I did not allow' often
to appear, because, at all events, they had their abode out of the
Nature, which I understood how to imitate. What now could have induced
to substitute Woden for Jupiter, and Thor for Mars, and instead of the
Southern, accurately described figures, to introduce forms of mist,
nay, mere verbal sounds, into my poems? On the one side, they were
related to the equally formless heroes of Ossian, only they were ruder
and more gigantic; on the other, I brought them into contact with the
cheerful tale; for the humoristic vein which runs through the whole
Northern mythus, was to me highly pleasing and remarkable. It appeared
to me the only one which jests with itself throughout,--wondrous
giants, magicians, and monsters opposed to an odd dynasty of gods, and
only occupied in leading astray and deriding the highest persons during
their government, while they threaten them, besides, with disgraceful
and inevitable destruction.

I felt a similar if not an equal interest for the Indian fables, which
I at first learned to know from Dapper's _Travels_, and likewise added
with great pleasure to my store of tales. In subsequent repetitions I
succeeded especially with the Altar of Ram; and notwithstanding the
great number of persons in this tale, the ape Hannemann remained the
favorite of my public. But even these unformed and over-formed monsters
could not satisfy me in a true poetic sense; they lay too far from the
truth, towards which my mind unceasingly strove.

[Side-note: Taste for Homer.]

But against all these goblins, so repulsive to art, my sense for the
beautiful was to be protected by the noblest power. Always fortunate
is that epoch in a literature when the great works of the past again
rise up as if thawed, and come into notice, because they then produce a
perfectly fresh effect. Even the Homeric light rose again quite new to
us, and indeed quite in the spirit of the time, which highly favoured
such an appearance; for the constant reference to nature had at last
the effect, that we learned to regard even the works of the ancients
from this side. What several travellers had done for explanation of
the Holy Scriptures, others had done for Homer. By Guys the matter was
introduced; Wood gave it an impulse. A Göttingen review of the original
work, which was at first very rare, made us acquainted with the design,
and taught us how far it had been carried out. We now no longer saw in
those poems a strained and inflated heroism, but the reflected truth
of a primeval present, and sought to bring this as closely to us as
possible. At the same time we could not give our assent, when it was
maintained that in order rightly to understand the Homeric natures, one
must make oneself acquainted with the wild races and their manners, as
described by the travellers in new worlds; for it cannot be denied that
both Europeans and Asiatics are represented in the Homeric poems as at
a higher grade of culture,--perhaps higher than the time of the Trojan
war could have enjoyed. But that maxim was nevertheless in harmony with
the prevailing confession of nature, and so far we let it pass.

With all these occupations, which were related to the knowledge of
mankind in the higher sense, as well as most nearly and dearly to
poetry, I was nevertheless forced every day to experience that I
was residing in Wetzlar. The conversation on the situation of the
business of the "Visitation," and its ever-increasing obstacles, the
discovery of new offences, was heard every hour. Here was the holy
Roman Empire once more assembled, not for mere outward forms, but for
an occupation which penetrated to the very depths. But even here that
half-empty banqueting-hall on the coronation-day occurred to me, where
the bidden guests remained without, because they were too proud. Here,
indeed, they had come, but even worse symptoms were to be seen. The
want of coherence in the whole, the mutual opposition of the parts,
were continually apparent; and it remained no secret that princes had
confidentially communicated to each other this notion, that they must
see whether, on this occasion, something could not be gained from the
supreme authority.

What a bad impression the petty detail of all the anecdotes of neglects
and delays, of injustices and corruptions, must make upon a young man
who desired what was good, and with this view cultivated his mind,
every honest person will feel. Under such circumstances, where was a
reverence for the law and the judge to arise? Even if the greatest
confidence had been placed in the effects of the "Visitation,"--if
it could have been believed that it would fully accomplish its high
purpose,--there was still no remedy to be found here for a joyous,
inwardly-striving youth. The formalities of the proceeding all tended
towards delay; if any one desired to do anything, and to be of any
importance, he was obliged to serve the party in the wrong--always the
accused--and to be skilled in the fencing-art of twisting and evading.

[Side-note: Æsthetic Speculations.]

Since, amid this distraction, I could not succeed in any æsthetic
labours, I again and again lost myself in æsthetic speculations, as
indeed all theorising indicates a defect or stagnation of productive
power. Before with Merk, now with Gotter, I endeavoured to find out
the maxims according to which one might go to work in production. But
neither with me nor with them would it succeed. Merk was a sceptic and
eclectic; Gotter adhered to such examples as pleased him the most.
The Sulzer theory was published more for the amateur than the artist.
In this sphere moral effects are required above all things; and here
at once arises a dissension between the class that produces and that
which uses; for a good work of art can, and will indeed, have moral
consequences; but to require moral ends of the artist, is to destroy
his profession.

What the ancients had said on these important subjects I had read
industriously for some years, by skips, at least, if not in regular
order. Aristotle, Cicero, Quintilian, Longinus--none were unconsidered;
but this did not help me in the least, for all these men presupposed an
experience which I lacked. They led me into a world infinitely rich in
works of art; they unfolded the merits of excellent poets and orators,
of most of whom the names alone are left us, and convinced me but too
well that a great abundance of objects must lie before us ere we can
think upon them; that one must first accomplish something oneself, nay,
fail in something, to learn to know one's own capacities, and those of
others. My acquaintance with so much that was good in those old times,
was only according to school and book, and by no means vital, since,
even with the most celebrated, orators, it was striking that they had
altogether formed themselves in life, and that one could never speak of
the peculiarities of their character as artists, without at the same
time mentioning the personal peculiarities of their disposition. With
the poets this seemed less to be the case; and thus the result of all
my thoughts and endeavours was the old resolution to investigate inner
and outer nature, and to allow her to rule herself in loving imitation.

For these operations, which rested in me neither day nor night, lay
before me two great, nay, monstrous materials, the wealth of which
I had only to prize, in order to produce something of importance.
There was the older epoch, into which falls the life of Götz von
Berlichingen, and the modern one, the unhappy bloom of which is
depicted in _Werther._ Of the historical preparation to that first work
I have already spoken; the ethical occasions of the second shall now be
introduced.

The resolution to preserve my internal nature according to its
peculiarities, and to let external nature influence me according to
its qualities, impelled me to the strange element in which _Werther_
is designed and written. I sought to free myself internally from all
that was foreign to me, to regard the external with love, and to allow
all beings, from man downwards, as low as they were comprehensible, to
act upon me, each after its own kind. Thus arose a wonderful affinity
with the single objects of nature, and a hearty concord, a harmony with
the whole, so that every change, whether of place and region, or of
the times of the day and year, or whatever else could happen, affected
me in the deepest manner. The glance of the painter associated itself
to that of the poet, the beautiful rural landscape, animated by the
pleasant river, increased my love of solitude, and favoured my silent
observations as they extended on all sides.

But since I had left the family circle in Sesenheim, and again my
family circle at Frankfort and Darmstadt, a vacuum had remained in
my bosom which I was not able to fill up; I therefore found myself
in a situation where the inclinations, if they appear in any degree
veiled, gradually steal upon us, and can render abortive all our good
resolutions.

And now, when the author has attained this step of his undertaking,
he for the first time feels light-hearted in his labour, since from
henceforward this book first becomes what it properly ought to be.
It has not been announced as an independent work; it is much more
designed to fill up the gaps of an author's life, to complete much
that is fragmentary, and to preserve the memory of lost and forgotten
ventures. But what is already done neither should nor can be repeated,
and the poet would now vainly call upon those darkened powers of
the soul, vainly ask of them to render present again those charming
circumstances, which rendered the period in Lahnthal so agreeable to
him. Fortunately the genius had already provided for that, and had
impelled him, in the vigorous period of youth, to hold fast, describe,
and with sufficient boldness and at the favourable hour publicly to
exhibit that which had immediately gone by. That the little book
_Werther_ is here meant, requires no further indication, but something
is to be gradually revealed, both of the persons introduced in it and
the views which it exhibits.

[Side-note: Origin of "Werther".]

Among the young men, who, attached to the embassy, had to prepare
themselves for their future career of office, was one whom we were
accustomed to call only the "Bridegroom." He distinguished himself by
a calm, agreeable deportment, clearness of views, definiteness both in
speaking and in acting. His cheerful activity, his persevering industry
so much recommended him to his superiors, that an appointment at an
early period was promised him. Being justified by this, he ventured to
betroth himself to a lady, who fully corresponded to his tone of mind
and his wishes. After the death of her mother, she had shown herself
extremely active as the head of a numerous young family, and had alone
sustained her father in his widowhood, so that a future husband might
hope the same for himself and his posterity, and expect a decided
domestic felicity. Every one confessed, without having these selfish
ends immediately in view, that she was a desirable lady. She belonged
to those who, if they do not inspire ardent passion, are nevertheless
formed to create a general feeling of pleasure. A figure lightly built
and neatly formed, a pure healthy temperament, with a glad activity of
life resulting from it, an unembarrassed management of the necessities
of the day--all these were given her together. I always felt happy in
the contemplation of such qualities, and I readily associated myself to
those who possessed them; and if I did not always find opportunity to
render them real service, I rather shared with them than with others
the enjoyment of those innocent pleasures which youth can always
find at hand, and seize without any great cost or effort. Moreover,
since it is now settled that ladies decorate themselves only for each
other, and are unwearied among each other to heighten the effect of
their adornments, those were always the most agreeable to me, who,
with simple purity, give their friend, their bridegroom, the silent
assurance that all is really done for him alone, and that a whole life
could be so carried on without much circumstance and outlay.

Such persons are not too much occupied with themselves; they have
time to consider the external world, and patience enough to direct
themselves according to it, and to adapt themselves to it; they become
shrewd and sensible without exertion, and require but few books for
their cultivation. Such was the bride.[3] The bridegroom, with his
thoroughly upright and confiding turn of mind, soon made many whom
he esteemed acquainted with her; and as he had to pass the greatest
part of his day in a zealous attention to business, was pleased when
his betrothed, after the domestic toils were ended, amused herself
otherwise, and took social recreation in walks and rural parties
with friends of both sexes. Lottie--for so we shall call her--was
unpretending in two senses; first, by her nature, which was rather
directed to a general kindly feeling than to particular inclinations;
and then she had set her mind upon a man who, being worthy of her,
declared himself ready to attach his fate to hers for life. The most
cheerful atmosphere seemed to surround her; nay, if it be a pleasing
sight to see parents bestow an uninterrupted care upon their children,
there is something still more beautiful when brothers and sisters do
the same for each other. In the former case we think we can perceive
more of natural impulse and social tradition; in the latter, more of
choice and of a free exercise of feeling.

The new comer, perfectly free from all ties, and careless in the
presence of a girl who, already engaged to another, could not interpret
the most obliging services as acts of courtship, and could take the
more pleasure in them accordingly, quietly went his way, but was soon
so drawn in and rivetted, that he no longer knew himself. Indolent
and dreamy, because nothing present satisfied him, he found what he
had lacked in a female friend, who, while she lived for the whole
year, seemed only to live for the moment. She liked him much as her
companion; he soon could not bear her absence, as she formed for him
the connecting link with the every-day world; and during extensive
household occupations, they were inseparable companions in the fields
and in the meadows, in the vegetable-ground and in the garden. If
business permitted, the bridegroom was also of the party; they had all
three accustomed themselves to each other without intention, and did
not know how they had become so mutually indispensable. During the
splendid summer they lived through a real German idyl, to which the
fertile land gave the form and a pure affection the poetry. Wandering
through ripe corn-fields, they took delight in the dewy morning; the
song of the lark, the cry of the quail, were pleasant tones; sultry
hours followed, monstrous storms came on,--they grew more and more
attached to each other, and by this continuous love many a little
domestic annoyance was easily extinguished. And thus one ordinary day
followed another, and all seemed to be holidays,--the whole calendar
should have been printed red. He will understand me who recollects what
was predicted by the happily unhappy friend of the "New Heloise:" "And
sitting at the feet of his beloved, he will break hemp, and he will
wish to break hemp to-day, to-morrow, and the day after, nay, for his
whole life."

[Side-note: Young Jerusalem.]

I can say but little, though just as much as may be necessary,
respecting a young man, whose name was afterwards but too often
mentioned. This was Jerusalem, the son of the freely and tenderly
thinking theologian. He also had an appointment with an embassy; his
form was pleasing, of a middle height, and well built; his face was
rather round than long; his features were soft and calm, and he had
the other appurtenances of a handsome blond youth, with blue eyes,
rather attractive than speaking. His dress was that introduced in
Lower Germany in imitation of the English,--a blue frock, waistcoat
and breeches of yellow leather, and boots with brown tops. The author
never visited him, nor saw him at his own residence, but often met him
among his friends. The expressions of this young man were moderate but
kindly. He took interest in productions of the most different kinds,
and especially loved those designs and sketches in which the the
tranquil character of solitary spots is caught. On such occasions he
showed Gesner's etchings, and encouraged the amateurs to study them. In
all that mummery and knighthood he took no part, but lived for himself
and his own sentiments. It was said he had a decided passion for the
wife of one of as friends. In public they were never seen together.
In general very little could be said of him, except that he occupied
himself with English literature. As the son of an opulent man, he had
no occasion either painfully to devote himself to business, or to make
pressing applications for an early appointment.

Those etchings by Gesner increased the pleasure and interest in rural
objects, and a little poem, which we passionately received into
our circle, allowed us from henceforward to think of nothing else.
Goldsmith's _Deserted Village_ necessarily delighted every one at that
grade of cultivation, in that sphere of thought. Not as living and
active, but as a departed, vanished existence was described, all that
one so readily looked upon, that one loved, prized, sought passionately
in the present, to take part in it with the cheerfulness of youth.
Highdays and holidays in the country, church consecrations and fairs,
the solemn assemblage of the elders under the village linden-tree,
supplanted in its turn by the lively delight of youth in dancing,
while the more educated classes show their sympathy. How seemly did
these pleasures appear, moderated as they were by an excellent country
pastor, who understood how to smooth down and remove all that went too
far,--that gave occasion to quarrel and dispute. Here again we found an
honest Wakefield, in his well-known circle, yet no longer in his living
bodily form, but as a shadow recalled by the soft mournful tones of the
elegiac poet. The very thought of this picture is one of the happiest
possible, when once the design is formed to evoke once more an innocent
past with a graceful melancholy. And in this kindly endeavour, how well
has the Englishman succeeded in every sense of the word! I shared the
enthusiasm for this charming poem with Gotter, who was more felicitous
than myself with the translation undertaken by us both; for I had too
painfully tried to imitate in our language the delicate significance of
the original, and thus had well agreed with single passages, but not
with the whole.

If now, as they say, the greatest happiness rests on a sense of longing
(_sehnsucht_), and if the genuine longing can only be directed to
something unattainable, everything had fallen together to render the
youth whom we now accompany on his wanderings the happiest of mortals.
An affection for one betrothed to another, the effort to acquire the
masterpieces of foreign literature for our own, the endeavour to
imitate natural objects, not only with words, but also with style
and pencil, without any proper technical knowledge,--each of these
particulars would singly have sufficed to me melt the heart and oppress
the bosom. But, that the sweetly suffering youth might be torn out
of this state, and that new circumstances might be prepared for new
disquiet, the following events occurred:--

[Side-note: Höpfner.]

Höpfner, professor of law, was at Giessen. He was acknowledged and
highly esteemed by Merck and Schlosser as clever in his office, and as
a thinking and excellent man. I had long ago desired his acquaintance,
and now, when these two friends thought to pay him a visit, to
negotiate about some literary matters, it was agreed that I should
likewise go to Giessen on this opportunity. Because, however--as
generally happens with the wilfulness of glad and peaceful times--we
could not easily do anything in the direct way, but, like genuine
children, sought to get a jest even out of what was necessary, I was
now, as an unknown person, to appear in a strange form, and once more
satisfy my desire to appear disguised. One cheerful morning, before
sunrise, I went from Wetzlar along the Lahne, up the charming valley;
such ramblings again constituted my greatest felicity. I invented,
connected, elaborated, and was quietly happy and cheerful with
myself; I set right what the ever-contradictory world had clumsily
and confusedly forced upon me. Arrived at the end of my journey, I
looked out for Höpfner's residence, and knocked at his study. When he
had cried out, "Come in!" I modestly appeared before him as a student
who was going home from the universities, and wished on his way to
become acquainted with the most worthy men. For his questions as to my
more intimate circumstances, I was prepared; I made up a plausible,
prosaic tale, with which he seemed satisfied, and as I gave myself out
for a jurist, I did not come off badly; for I well knew his merits
in this department, and also that he was occupied with natural law.
Conversation, however, sometimes came to a stand, and it seemed as
if he were looking for a _Stammbuch_[4] or for me to take my leave.
Nevertheless, I managed to delay my departure, as I expected with
certainty the arrival of Schlosser, whose punctuality was well known
to me. He came in reality, and after a side glance, took little notice
of me. Höpfner, however, drew me into conversation, and showed himself
throughout as a humane and kindly man. I at last took my leave, and
hastened to the inn, where I exchanged a few hurried words with Merck,
and awaited further proceedings.

The friends had resolved to ask Höpfner to dinner, and also that
Christian Heinrich Schmidt who had played a part, though a very
subordinate one, in German literature. For him the affair was really
designed, and he was to be punished in a mirthful manner. When the
guests had assembled in the dining-room, I asked, through the waiter,
whether the gentlemen would allow me to dine with them. Schlosser, whom
a certain earnestness well became, opposed this proposition, because
they did not wish their conversation interrupted by a third party. But,
on the pressing demand of the waiter and the advocacy of Höpfner, who
assured the other that I was a very tolerable person, I was admitted,
and at the commencement of the meal behaved as if modest and abashed.
Schlosser and Merck put no restraint upon themselves, and went on about
many subjects as freely as if no stranger were present. I now showed
myself somewhat bolder, and did not allow myself to be disturbed when
Schlosser threw out at me much that was in earnest, and Merck something
sarcastic; but I directed against Schmidt all my darts, which fell
sharply and surely on the uncovered places which I well knew.

I had been moderate over my pint of table-wine, but the gentlemen
ordered better wine to be brought, and did not fail to give me some.
After many affairs of the day had been talked over, conversation went
into general matters, and the question was discussed, which will be
repeated as long as there are authors in the world,--the question,
namely, whether literature was rising or declining, progressing
or retrograding? This question, about which old and young, those
commencing and those retiring, seldom agree, was discussed with
cheerfulness, though without any exact design of coming decidedly
to terms about it. At last I took up the discourse, and said, "The
different literatures, as it seems to me, have seasons, which
alternating with each other, as in nature, bring forth certain
phenomena, and assert themselves in due order. Hence I do not believe
that any epoch of a literature can be praised or blamed on the whole;
especially it displeases me when certain talents, which are brought
out by their time, are raised and vaunted so highly, while others are
censured and depreciated. The throat of the nightingale is excited
by the spring, but at the same time also that of the cuckoo. The
butterflies, which are so agreeable to the eye, and the gnats, which
are so painful to the feelings, are called into being by the same heat
of the sun. If this were duly considered, we should not hear the same
complaints renewed every ten years, and the vain trouble which is
taken to root out this or that offensive thing, would not so often be
wasted." The party looked at me, wondering whence I had got so much
wisdom and tolerance. I, however, continued quite calmly to compare
literary phenomena with natural productions, and (I know not how)
came to the _molluscæ_, of which I contrived to set forth all sorts
of strange things. I said that there were creatures to whom a sort of
body, nay, a certain figure, could not be denied; but that, since they
had no bones, one never knew how to set about rightly with them, and
they were nothing better than living slime; nevertheless, the sea must
have such inhabitants. Since I carried the simile beyond its due limits
to designate Schmidt, who was present, and that class of characterless
_littérateurs_, I was reminded that a simile carried too far at last
becomes nothing. "Well, then, I will return to the earth," I replied,
"and speak of the ivy. As these creatures have no bones, so this has
no trunk; but wherever it attaches itself, it likes to play the chief
part. It belongs to old walls, in which there is nothing more to
destroy; but from new buildings it is properly removed. It sucks up the
goodness of the trees; and is most insupportable to me when it clambers
up a post, and assures me that this is a living trunk, because it has
covered it with leaves."

[Side-note: Joke upon P. H. Schmidt.]

Notwithstanding I was again reproached with the obscurity and
inapplicability of my similes, I became more and more warm against
all parasitical creatures, and as far as my knowledge of nature then
extended, managed the affair pretty well. I at last sang a _vivat_ to
all independent men, a _pereat_ to those who forced themselves upon
them, seized Höpfner's hand after dinner, shook it violently, declared
him to be the best man in the world, and finally embraced both him and
the others right heartily. My excellent new friend thought he was
really dreaming, until Schlosser and Merk at last solved the riddle;
and the discovered joke diffused a general hilarity, which was shared
by Schmidt himself, who was appeased by an acknowledgment of his real
merits, and the interest we took in his tastes.

This ingenious introduction could not do otherwise than animate and
favour the literary congress, which was indeed, chiefly kept in view.
Merck, active now in æsthetics, now in literature, now in commerce,
had stimulated the well-thinking, well-informed Schlosser, whose
knowledge extended to so many branches, to edit the Frankfort _Gelehrte
Anzeige_ (_Learned Advertiser_) for that year. They had associated to
themselves Höpfner, and other university-men in Giessen, a meritorious
schoolman, Rector Wenk in Darmstadt, and many other good men. Every
one of them possessed enough historical and theoretical knowledge in
his department, and the feeling of the times allowed these men to work
in one spirit. The human and cosmopolitan is encouraged; really good
men justly celebrated are protected against obtrusion of every kind;
their defence is undertaken against enemies, and especially against
scholars, who use what has been taught them to the detriment of their
instructors. Nearly the most interesting articles are the critiques on
other periodical publications, the _Berlin Library_ (_Bibliothek_),
the _German Mercury_, where the cleverness in so many departments, the
judgment as well the fairness of the papers, is rightly admired.

As for myself, they saw well enough that I was deficient in everything
that belongs to a critic, properly so called. My historical knowledge
was unconnected, the histories of the world, science, and literature
had only attracted me by epochs, the objects themselves only partially
and in masses. My capacity of giving life to things, and rendering them
present to me out of their real connexion, put me in the position that
I could be perfectly at home in a certain century or in a department
of science, without being in any degree instructed as to what preceded
or what followed. Thus a certain theoretico-practical sense had been
awakened in me, by which I could give account of things, rather as
they should be than as they were, without any proper philosophical
connection, but by way of leaps. To this was added a very easy power of
apprehension, and a friendly reception of the opinions of others, if
they did not stand in direct opposition to my own convictions.

[Side-note: Frankfort "Gelehrte Anzeige."]

That literary union was also favoured by an animated correspondence,
and by frequent personal communication, which was possible from the
vicinity of the places. He who had first read a book was to give an
account of it; often another reviewer of the same book was found; the
affair was talked over, connected with kindred subjects, and if at
last a certain result had been obtained, one of them took the office
of editing. Thus many reviews are as clever as they are spirited, as
pleasant as they are satisfactory. I often had the task of introducing
the matter; my friends also permitted me to jest in their works, and to
appear independently with objects to which I felt myself equal, and in
which I especially took interest. In vain should I endeavour, either
by description or reflection, to recall the proper spirit and sense of
those days, if the two years of the above-mentioned periodical did not
furnish me with the most decisive documents. Extracts from passages, in
which I again recognise myself, may appear in future in their proper
place, together with similar essays.

During this lively interchange of knowledge, opinions, and convictions,
I very soon became better acquainted with Höpfner, and became very
fond of him. As soon as we were alone I spoke with him about subjects
connected with his department, which was to be my department also; and
found a very naturally connected explanation and instruction. I was not
then as yet plainly conscious that I could learn something from books
and conversation, but not from continuous professional lectures. A
book allowed me to pause at a passage, and even to look back, which is
impossible with oral delivery and a teacher. Often at the beginning of
the lecture, some thought in which I indulged laid hold of me, and thus
I lost what followed, and altogether got out of the connexion. Thus
it had happened to me with respect to the lectures on jurisprudence;
and on this account I could take many opportunities of talking with
Höpfner, who entered very readily into my doubts and scruples, and
filled up many gaps, so that the wish arose in me to remain with him at
Giessen, and derive instruction from him, without removing myself too
far from Wetzlar inclinations. Against this wish of mine my two friends
had laboured, first unconsciously, but afterwards consciously; for both
were in a hurry, not only to leave the place themselves, but had also
an interest to remove me from the spot.

Schlosser disclosed to me that he had formed, first a friendly then
a closer connexion with my sister, and that he was looking about for
an early appointment that he might be united to her. This explanation
surprised me to some degree, although I ought to have found it out
long ago in my sister's letters; but we easily pass over that which
may hurt the good opinion which we entertain of ourselves, and I now
remarked for the first time that I was really jealous about my sister;
a feeling which I concealed from myself the less, as, since my return
from Strasburg, our connexion had been much more intimate. How much
time had we not expended in communicating each little affair of the
heart, love-matters, and other matters, which had occurred in the
interval. In the field of imagination too, had there not been revealed
to me a new world, into which I sought to conduct her also? My own
little productions, and a far-extended world-poetry, was gradually to
be made known to her. Thus I made for her _impromptu_ translations of
those passages of Homer, in which she could take the greatest interest.
Clarke's literal translation I read into German, as well as I could; my
version generally found its way into metrical turns and terminations,
and the liveliness with which I had apprehended the images, the force
with which I expressed them, removed all the obstacles of a cramped
order of words; what I gave with mind, she followed with mind also. We
passed many hours of the day in this fashion; while, if her company
met, the Wolf Fenris and the Ape Hannemann were unanimously called
for, and how often have I not been obliged to repeat circumstantially
how Thor and his comrades were deluded by the magical giants! Hence
from these fictions such a pleasant impression has remained with me,
that they belong to the most valuable things which my imagination can
recall. Into the connexion with the Darmstadt people I had drawn my
sister also, and now my wanderings and occasional absence necessarily
bound us closer together, as I discoursed with her by letter respecting
every thing that occurred to me, communicated to her every little
poem, if even only a note of admiration, and let her first see all
the letters which I received, and all the answers which I wrote.
All these lively impulses had been stopped since my departure from
Frankfort, my residence at Wetzlar was not fertile enough for** such
a correspondence, and, moreover, my attachment to Charlotte may have
infringed upon my attentions to my sister; enough, she felt herself
alone, perhaps neglected, and therefore the more readily gave a hearing
to the honest wooing of an honourable man, who, serious and reserved,
estimable and worthy of confidence, had passionately bestowed on her
his affections, with which he was otherwise very niggardly. I was now
forced to resign myself and grant my friend his happiness, though I did
not fail in secret to say confidently to myself, that if the brother
had not been absent, it would not have gone so well with the friend.

My friend and probable brother-in-law was now very anxious that I
should return home, because, by my mediation, a freer intercourse was
possible, of which the feelings of this man, so unexpectedly attacked
by a tender passion, seemed to stand extremely in need. Therefore, on
his speedy departure, he elicited from me the promise that I would
immediately follow him.

[Side-note: Merck's Hatred of Students.]

Of Merck, whose time was free, I hoped that he would delay his
sojourn in Giessen, that I might be able to pass some hours of the
day with my good Höpfner, while my friend employed his time on the
Frankfort _Gelehrte Anzeige_; but he was not to be moved, and as my
brother-in-law was driven from the university by love, he was driven
by hate. For as there are innate antipathies--just as certain men
cannot endure cats, while this or that is repugnant to the soul of
others,--so was Merk a deadly enemy to all the academical citizens (the
students), who indeed at that time, at Giessen, took delight in the
greatest rudeness. For me they were well enough; I could have used them
as masks for one of my carnival plays, but with him the sight of them
by day, and their noise by night, destroyed every sort of good humour.
He had spent the best days of his youth in French Switzerland, and had
afterwards enjoyed the pleasant intercourse of people of the court,
world, and business, and of cultivated _littérateurs_; several military
persons, in whom a desire for mental culture had been awakened, sought
his society, and thus he had passed his life in a very cultivated
circle. That the rudeness of the students vexed him, was therefore
not to be wondered at, but his aversion from them was really more
passionate than became a sound man, although he often made me laugh by
his witty descriptions of their monstrous appearance and behaviour.
Höpfner's imitations and my persuasions were of no avail; I was obliged
to depart with him as soon as possible for Wetzlar.

I could scarcely wait any time, till I had introduced him to Charlotte,
but his presence in this circle did me no good; for as Mephistopheles,
let him go when he will, hardly brings a blessing with him, so did
he, by his indifference towards that beloved person, cause me no joy,
even if he did not make me waver. This I might have foreseen, if I
had recollected that it was exactly those slender, delicate persons,
who diffuse a lively cheerfulness around them, without making further
pretensions, who did not remarkably please him. He very quickly
preferred the Juno-form of one of her friends, and since he lacked
time to form a close connexion, he bitterly blamed me for not exerting
myself to gain this magnificent figure, especially as she was free and
without any tie. He thought that I did not understand my own advantage,
and that he here--very unwillingly--perceived my especial taste for
wasting my time.

If it is dangerous to make a friend acquainted with the perfections of
one's beloved, because he also may find her charming and desirable;
no less is the reverse danger, that he may perplex us by his dissent.
This, indeed, was not the case here, for I had too deeply impressed
upon myself the picture of her amiability for it to be so easily
obliterated; but his presence and his persuasions nevertheless hastened
my resolution to leave the place. He represented to me a journey on
the Rhine, which he was going to take with his wife and son, in the
most glowing colours, and excited in me the desire to see, at last,
with my eyes those objects of which I had often heard with envy. Now,
when he had departed, I separated myself from Charlotte with a purer
conscience indeed than from Frederica, but still not without pain. This
connexion also had by habit and indulgence grown more passionate than
was right on my side, while, on the other hand, she and her bridegroom
kept themselves with cheerfulness in a measure which could not be more
beautiful and amiable, and the security which resulted just from this
caused me to forget every danger. I could not, however, conceal from
myself that this adventure must come to a speedy end; for the union
of the young man with the amiable girl depended on a promotion which
was immediately to be expected, and as man, if he is in any degree
resolute, even dares to make a virtue of necessity, so did I embrace
the determination voluntarily to depart before I was driven away by
anything insupportable.


[1] Annual publications devoted to poetry only.--_Trans._

[2] The fight of Hermann, the "Arminius" of Tacitus, against the
Romans.--_Trans._

[3] Persons betrothed are in German called "bride" and
"bridegroom."--_Trans._

[4] A "stammbuch" is a sort of album for autographs and short
contributions.--_Trans._




THIRTEENTH BOOK.


It was agreed with Merck, that in the fine season we should meet at
Coblentz at Frau von Laroche's. I sent to Frankfort my baggage and
whatever I might want on my way down the Lahn by an opportunity which
offered, and now wandered down that beautiful river, so lovely in its
windings, so various in its shores, free as to my resolution, but
oppressed as to my feelings--in a condition, when the presence of
silently-living nature is so beneficial to us. My eye, accustomed to
discern those beauties of a landscape that suited the painter, and were
above him, rioted in the contemplation of near and distant objects, of
bushy rocks, of sunny heights, of damp valleys, of enthroned castles,
and of the blue range of mountains inviting us from the distance.

I wandered on the right bank of the river, which at some depth and
distance below me, and partly concealed by a rich bush of willows,
glided along in the sunlight. Then again arose in me the old wish,
worthily to imitate such objects. By chance I had a handsome
pocket-knife in my left hand, and at the moment, from the depth of
my soul, arose, as it were, an absolute command, according to which,
without delay, I was to fling this knife into the river. If I saw
it fall, my wish to become an artist would be fulfilled, but if
the sinking of the knife was concealed by the overhanging bush of
willows, I was to abandon the wish and the endeavour. This whim had no
sooner arisen in me than it was executed. For, without regarding the
usefulness of the knife, which comprised many instruments in itself, I
cast it with the left hand, as I held it, violently towards the river.
But here I had to experience that deceptive ambiguity of oracles, of
which, in antiquity, such bitter complaints were made. The sinking of
the knife into the water was concealed from me by the extreme twigs of
the willows, but the water, which rose from the fall, sprang up like a
strong fountain, and was perfectly visible. I did not interpret this
phenomenon in my favour, and the doubt which it excited in me was
afterwards the cause that I pursued these exercises more interruptedly
and more negligently, and gave occasion for the import of the oracle to
fulfil itself. For the moment at least the external world was spoiled
for me, I abandoned myself to my imaginations and feelings, and left
the well-situated castles and districts of Weilburg, Limburg, Diez, and
Nassau one by one behind me, generally walking alone, but often for a
short time associating myself with another.

[Side-note: The family Von Laroche.]

After thus pleasantly wandering for some days, I arrived at Ems, where
I several times enjoyed the soft bath, and then went down the river
in a boat. Then the old Rhine opened itself upon me, the beautiful
situation of Oberlahnstein delighted me, but noble and majestic above
all appeared to me the castle Ehrenbreitstein, which stood perfectly
armed in its power and strength. In most lovely contrast lay at its
feet the well-built little place called Thal, where I could easily find
my way to the residence of Privy Councillor von Laroche. Announced
by Merck, I was very kindly received by this noble family, and soon
considered as a member of it. My literary and sentimental tendencies
bound me to the mother, a cheerful feeling for the world bound me to
the father, and my youth bound me to the daughters.

The house, quite at the end of the valley, and little elevated above
the river, had a free prospect down the stream. The rooms were high
and spacious, and the walls, like a gallery, were hung with pictures,
placed close together. Every window on every side formed a frame to
a natural picture, which came out very-vividly by the light of a
mild sun. I thought I had never seen such cheerful mornings and such
splendid evenings.

I was not long the only guest in the house. As a member of the congress
which was held here, partly with an artistic view, partly as a matter
of feeling, Leuchselring, who came up from Düsseldorf, was likewise
appointed. This man, possessing a fine knowledge of modern literature,
had, on different travels, but especially during a residence in
Switzerland, made many acquaintances, and as he was pleasant and
insinuating, had gained much favour. He carried with him several boxes,
which contained the confidential correspondence with many friends; for
there was altogether such a general openness among people, that one
could not speak or write to a single individual, without considering it
directed to many. One explored one's own heart and that of others, and
with the indifference of the government towards such a communication,
the great rapidity of the Taxisch[1] post, the security of the seal,
and the reasonableness of the postage, this moral and literary
intercourse soon spread itself around.

Such correspondences, especially with important persons, were carefully
collected, and extracts from them were often read at friendly meetings.
Thus, as political discourses had little interest, one became pretty
well acquainted with the extent of the moral world.

Leuchselring's boxes contained many treasures in this sense. The
letters of one Julie Bondeli were very much esteemed; she was famed
as a lady of sense and merit, and a friend of Rousseau. Whoever had
stood in any relation to this extraordinary man, took part in the glory
which emanated from him, and in his name a silent community had been
disseminated far and wide.

I liked to be present at these readings, as I was thus transported
into an unknown world, and learned to know the real truth of many an
event that had just passed. All indeed was not valuable, and Herr von
Laroche, a cheerful man of the world and of business, who, although
a Catholic, had already in his writings made free with the monks
and priesthood, thought that he here saw a fraternity, where many a
worthless individual supported himself by a connexion with persons
of importance, by which, in the end, he, but not they, were admired.
Generally this excellent man withdrew from the company when the boxes
were opened. Even if he did listen to some letters now and then, a
waggish remark was to be expected. Among other things, he once said
that by this correspondence he was still more convinced of what he had
always believed, namely, that ladies might spare their sealing-wax, as
they need only fasten their letters with pins, and might be assured
that they would reach their address unopened. In the same way he
was accustomed to jest with everything that lay out of the sphere of
life and activity, and in this followed the disposition of his lord
and master, Count Stadion, minister to the Elector of Mayence, who
certainly was not fitted to counterbalance the worldliness and coldness
of the boy by a reverence for everything like mysterious foreboding.

[Side-note: Herr von Laroche and His Preceptor.]

An anecdote respecting the great practical sense of the count may here
find a place. When he took a liking to the orphan Laroche, and chose
him for a pupil, he at once required from the boy the services of a
secretary. He gave him letters to answer, despatches to prepare, which
he was then obliged to copy fair, oftener to write in cipher, to seal,
and to direct. This lasted for many years. When the boy had grown up
into a youth, and really did that which he had hitherto only supposed
he was doing, the count took him to a large writing-table, in which
all his letters and packets lay unbroken, having been preserved as
exercises of the former time.

Another exercise which the count required of his pupil, will not find
such universal applause. Laroche had been obliged to practise himself
in imitating, as accurately as possible, the handwriting of his lord
and master, that he might thus relieve him from the trouble of writing
himself. Not only in business, but also in love affairs, the young man
had to take the place of his preceptor. The count was passionately
attached to a lady of rank and talent. If he stopped in her society
till late at night, his secretary was, in the meanwhile, sitting at
home, and hammering out the most ardent love-letters; the count chose
one of these, and sent it that very night to his beloved, who was thus
necessarily convinced of the inextinguishable fire of her passionate
adorer. Such early experiences were scarcely fitted to give the youth
the most exalted notion of written communications about love.

An irreconcilable hatred of the priesthood had established itself in
this man, who served two spiritual electors, and had probably sprung
from the contemplation of the rude, tasteless, mind-destroying foolery
which the monks in Germany were accustomed to carry on in many parts,
and thus hindered and destroyed every sort of cultivation. His letters
on Monasticism caused great attention; they were received with great
applause by all Protestants and many Catholics.

If Herr von Laroche opposed everything that can be called sensibility,
and even decidedly avoided the very appearance of it, he nevertheless
did not conceal a tender paternal affection for his eldest daughter,
who, indeed, was nothing else but amiable. She was rather short
than tall of stature, and delicately built, her figure was free and
graceful, her eyes very black, while nothing could be conceived purer
and more blooming than her complexion. She also loved her father, and
inclined to his sentiments. Being an active man of business, most of
his time was consumed in works belonging to his calling; and as the
guests who stopped at his house were really attracted by his wife and
not by him, society afforded him but little pleasure. At table he was
cheerful and entertaining, and at least endeavoured to keep his board
free from the spice of sensibility.

"Whoever knows the views and mode of thought of Frau von Laroche--and
by a long life and many writings, she has become honourably known to
every German,--may perhaps suspect that a domestic incongruity must
have arisen here. Nothing of the kind. She was the most wonderful
woman; and I know no other to compare to her. Slenderly and delicately
built, rather tall than short, she had, even to her more advanced
years, managed to preserve a certain elegance both of form and of
conduct, which pleasantly fluctuated between the conduct of a noble
lady and that of one of the citizen class. Her dress had been the
same for several years. A neat little cap with wings very well became
her small head and delicate face, and her brown or grey clothing gave
repose and dignity to her presence. She spoke well, and always knew
how to give importance to what she said by an expression of feeling.
Her conduct was perfectly the same towards every body. But with all
this the greatest peculiarity of her character is not yet expressed;
it is difficult to designate it. She seemed to take interest in
everything, but really nothing acted upon her. She was gentle towards
every one, and could endure everything without suffering; the jests
of her husband, the tenderness of her friends, the sweetness of her
children--to all this she replied in the same manner, and thus she
always remained herself, without being affected in the world by
good and evil, or in literature by excellence and weakness. To this
disposition she owes that independence which she maintains even to an
advanced age, through many sad, nay, sorrowful events. But not to be
unjust, I must state that her sons, then children of dazzling beauty,
often elicited from her an expression different from that which served
her for daily use.

[Side-note: Merk's influence.]

Thus I lived for a time in a wonderfully pleasant society, until Merck
came with his family. Here arose at once new affinities; for while the
two ladies approached each other, Merck had come into closer contact
with Herr von Laroche as a connoisseur of the world and of business,
as a well-informed and travelled man. The boy associated himself with
the boys, and the daughters, of whom the eldest soon particularly
attracted me, fell to my share. It is a very pleasant sensation when a
new passion begins to stir in us, before the old one is quite extinct.
Thus, when the sun is setting, one often likes to see the moon rise on
the opposite side, and one takes delight in the double lustre of the
two heavenly luminaries.

There was now no lack of rich entertainment either in or out of the
house. We wandered about the spot, and ascended Ehrenbreitstein on
this side of the river, and the _Carthaus_ on the other. The city, the
Moselle-bridge, the ferry which took us over the Rhine, all gave us the
most varied delight. The new castle was not yet built; we were taken
to the place where it was to stand, and allowed to see the preparatory
sketches.

Nevertheless, amid those cheerful circumstances was internally
developed that element of unsociableness which, both in cultivated and
uncultivated circles, ordinarily shows its malign effects. Merck, at
once cold and restless, had not long listened to that correspondence
before he uttered aloud many waggish notions concerning the things
which were the subjects of discourse, as well as the persons and
their circumstances, while he revealed to me in secret the oddest
things, which really were concealed under them. Political secrets were
never touched on, nor indeed anything that could have had a definite
connexion; he only made me attentive to persons who, without remarkable
talents, contrive, by a certain tact, to obtain personal influence,
and, by an acquaintance with many, try to make something out of
themselves; and from this time forwards I had opportunity to observe
several men of the sort. Since such persons usually change their place,
and, as travellers come, now here, now there, they have the advantage
of novelty, which should neither be envied nor spoiled; for this is a
mere customary matter, which every traveller has often experienced to
his benefit, and every resident to his detriment.

Be that as it may, it is enough that from that time forward we
cherished an uneasy, nay, envious attention to people of the sort, who
went about on their own account, cast anchor in every city, and sought
to gain an influence at least in some families. I have represented
a tender and soft specimen of these guild-brethren in "Pater Brey,"
another of more aptness and bluntness in a carnival play to be
hereafter published, which bears the title, _Satyros, or the deified
Wood-devil._ This I have done, if not with fairness, at least with good
humour.

However, the strange elements of our little society still worked quite
tolerably one upon another; we were partly united by our own manner
and style of breeding, and partly restrained by the peculiar conduct
of our hostess, who, being but lightly touched by that which passed
around her, always resigned herself to certain ideal notions, and while
she understood how to utter them in a friendly and benevolent way,
contrived to soften everything sharp that might arise in the company,
and to smooth down all that was uneven.

Merck had sounded a retreat just at the right time, so that the party
separated on the best of terms. I went with him and his in a yacht,
which was returning up the Rhine towards Mayence; and although this
vessel went very slowly of itself, we nevertheless besought the captain
not to hurry himself. Thus we enjoyed at leisure the infinitely various
objects, which, in the most splendid weather, seem to increase in
beauty every hour, and both in greatness and agreeableness ever to
change anew; and I only wish that, while I utter the names, Rheinfels
and St. Goar, Bacharach, Bingen, Ellfeld, and Biberich, every one of my
readers may be able to recall these spots to memory.

We had sketched industriously, and had thus at least gained a deeper
impression of the thousandfold changes of those splendid shores.
At the same time, by being so much longer together, by a familiar
communication on so many sorts of things, our connexion became so
much the more intimate, that Merck gained a great influence over
me, and I, as a good companion, became indispensable to him for a
comfortable existence. My eye, sharpened by nature, again turned to the
contemplation of art, for which the beautiful Frankfort collections
afforded me the best opportunity, both in paintings and engravings,
and I have been much indebted to the kindness of MM. Ettling and
Ehrenreich, but especially to the excellent Nothnagel. To see nature in
art became with me a passion, which, in its highest moments, must have
appeared to others, passionate amateurs as they might be, almost like
madness: and how could such an inclination be better fostered than by a
constant observation of the excellent works of the Netherlanders? That
I might make myself practically acquainted with these things, Nothnagel
gave me a little room, where I found every thing that was requisite for
oil painting, and painted after nature some simple subjects of still
life, one of which, a tortoise-shell knife-handle, inlaid with silver,
so astonished my master, who had last visited me an hour before, that
he maintained one of his subordinate artists must have been with me
during the time.

[Side-note: Reviving Taste for Art.]

Had I patiently gone on practising myself on such objects catching
their light and the peculiarities of their surface, I might have
formed a sort of practical skill, and made a way for something higher.
I was, however, prevented by the fault of all dilettantes--that of
beginning with what is most difficult, and ever wishing to perform
the impossible, and I soon involved myself in greater undertakings,
in which I stuck fast, both because they were beyond my technical
capabilities, and because I could not always maintain pure and
operative that loving attention and patient industry, by which even the
beginner accomplishes something.

At the same time, I was once more carried into a higher sphere, by
finding an opportunity of purchasing some fine plaster casts of antique
heads. The Italians, who visit the fairs, often brought with them
good specimens of the kind, and sold them cheap, after they had taken
moulds of them. In this manner I set up for myself a little museum, as
I gradually brought together the heads of the Laocoön, his sons, and
Niobe's daughters. I also bought miniature copies of the most important
works of antiquity from the estate of a deceased friend of art, and
thus sought once more to revive, as much as possible, the great
impression which I had received at Mannheim.

While I now sought to cultivate, foster, and maintain all the talent,
taste, or other inclination that might live in me, I applied a good
part of the day, according to my father's wish, in the duties of
an advocate, for the practice of which I chanced to find the best
opportunity. After the death of my grandfather, my uncle Textor had
come into the council, and consigned to me the little offices to which
I was equal; while the brothers Schlosser did the same. I made myself
acquainted with the documents; my father also read them with much
pleasure, as by means of his son, he again saw himself in an activity
of which he had been long deprived. We talked the matters over, and
with great facility; I then made the necessary statements. We had
at hand an excellent copyist, on whom one could rely for all legal
formalities; and this occupation was the more agreeable to me as it
brought me closer to my father, who, being perfectly satisfied with my
conduct in this respect, readily looked with an eye of indulgence on
all my other pursuits, in the ardent expectation that I should now soon
gather in a harvest of fame as an author.

Because now, in every epoch, all things are connected together, since
the ruling views and opinions are ramified in the most various manner,
so in the science of law those maxims were gradually pursued, according
to which religion and morals were treated. Among the attorneys, as
the younger people, and then among the judges, as the elder, a spirit
of humanity was diffused, and all vied with each other in being as
humane as possible, even in legal affairs. Prisons were improved,
crimes excused, punishments lightened, legitimations rendered easy,
separations and unequal marriages encouraged, and one of our eminent
lawyers gained for himself the highest fame, when he contrived, by hard
fighting, to gain for the son of an executioner an entrance into the
college of surgeons. In vain did guilds and corporations oppose; one
dam after another was broken through. The toleration of the religious
parties towards each other was not merely taught, but practised, and
the civil constitution was threatened with a still greater influence,
when the effort was made to recommend to that good-humoured age, with
understanding, acuteness, and power, toleration toward the Jews.
Those new subjects for legal treatment, which lay without the law and
tradition, and only laid claim to a fair examination, to a kindly
sympathy, required at the same time a more natural and animated style.
Here for us, the youngest, was opened a cheerful field, in which we
bustled about with delight, and I still recollect that an imperial
councillor's agent, in a case of the sort, sent me a very polite letter
of commendation. The French _plaidoyés_ served us for patterns and for
stimulants.

We were thus on the way to become better orators than jurists, a fact
to which George Schlosser once called my attention, blaming me while
doing so. I told him that I had read to my clients a controversial
paper written with much energy in their favour, at which they had shown
the greatest satisfaction. Upon this he replied to me, "In this case
you have shown yourself more an author than an advocate. We must never
ask how such a writing may please the client, but how it may please the
judge."

[Side-note: State of the German stage.]

As the occupations to which one devotes one's day are never so serious
and pressing that one cannot find time enough in the evening to go
to the play, thus was it also with me, who, in the want of a really
good stage, did not cease thinking of the German theatre, in order to
discover how one might cooperate upon it with any degree of activity.
Its condition in the second half of the last century is sufficiently
known, and every one who wishes to be instructed about it finds
assistance at hand everywhere. On this account I only intend to insert
here a few general remarks.

The success of the stage rested more upon the personality of the actors
than upon the value of the pieces. This was especially the case with
pieces half or wholly extemporized, when everything depended on the
humour and talent of the comic actors. The matter of such pieces must
be taken out of the commonest life, in conformity with the people
before whom they are acted. From this immediate application arises the
greatest applause, which these plays have always gained. They were
always at home in South Germany, where they are retained to the present
day; and the change of persons alone renders it necessary to give,
from time to time, some change to the character of the comic masks.
However, the German theatre, in conformity with the serious character
of the nation, soon took a turn towards the moral, which was still more
accelerated by an external cause. For the question arose, among strict
Christians, whether the theatre belonged to those sinful things which
are to be shunned, at all events, or to those indifferent things which
can be good to the good and bad to the bad. Some zealots denied the
latter, and held fast the opinion that no clergyman should ever enter
the theatre. Now the opposite opinion could not be maintained with
energy, unless the theatre was declared to be not only harmless, but
even useful. To be useful, it must be moral; and in this direction it
developed itself in North Germany the more as, by a sort of half-taste,
the comic character[2] was banished, and although intelligent persons
took his part, was forced to retire, having already gone from the
coarseness of the German _hanswurst_ (jack-pudding) into the neatness
and delicacy of the Italian and French harlequins. Even Scapin and
Crispin gradually vanished; the latter I saw played for the last time
by Koch, in his old age.

Richardson's novels had already made the citizen-world attentive to a
more delicate morality. The severe and inevitable consequences of a
feminine _faux pas_ were analysed in a frightful manner in _Clarissa._
Lessing's _Miss Sara Sampson_ treated the same theme: whilst the
_Merchant of London_ exhibited a misguided youth in the most terrible
situation. The French dramas had the same end, but proceeded more
moderately, and contrived to please by some accommodation at the end.
Diderot's _Père de Famille_, the _Honourable Criminal_, the _Vinegar
Dealer_, the _Philosopher without knowing it, Eugenie_, and other
works of the sort, suited that honest feeling of citizen and family
which began more and more to prevail. With us, the _Grateful Son_,
the _Deserter from Parental Love_, and all of their kin, went the
same way. The _Minister, Clementini_, and other pieces by Gehler, the
_German Father of a Family_, by Gemming, all brought agreeably to view
the worth of the middle and even of the lower class, and delighted
the great public. Eckhof by his noble personality, which gave to the
actor's profession a dignity in which it had hitherto been deficient,
elevated to an uncommon degree the leading characters in such pieces,
since, as an honest man, the expression of honesty succeeded with him
to perfection.

While now the German theatre was completely inclining to effeminacy,
Schröder arose as an author and actor, and prompted by the connexion
between Hamburg and England, adapted some English comedies. The
material of these he could only use in the most general way, since
the originals are for the most part formless, and if they begin well
and according to a certain plan, they wander from the mark at last.
The sole concern of their authors seems to be the introduction of the
oddest scenes; and whoever is accustomed to a sustained work of art, at
last unwillingly finds himself driven into the boundless. Besides this,
a wild, immoral, vulgarly dissolute tone so decidedly pervades the
whole, to an intolerable degree, that it must have been difficult to
deprive the plan and the characters of all their bad manners. They are
a coarse and at the same time dangerous food, which can only be enjoyed
and digested by a large and half-corrupted populace at a certain time.
Schröder did more for these things than is usually known; he thoroughly
altered them, assimilated them to the German mind, and softened them
as much as possible. But still a bitter kernel always remains in them,
because the joke often depends on the ill-usage of persons, whether
they deserve it or not. In these performances, which were also widely
spread upon our stage, lay a secret counterpoise to that too delicate
morality; and the action of both kinds of drama against each other
fortunately prevented the monotony into which people would otherwise
have fallen.

[Side-note: Schroeder's Adaptation of English Comedies.]

The German, kind and magnanimous by nature, likes to see no one
ill-treated. But as no man, however well he thinks, is secure that
something may not be put upon him against his inclination, and as,
moreover, comedy in general, if it is to please, always presupposes
or awakens something of malice in the spectator, so, by a natural
path, did people come to a conduct which hitherto had been deemed
unnatural: this consisted in lowering the higher classes, and more or
less attacking them. Satire, whether in prose or verse, had always
avoided touching the court and nobility. Rabener refrained from all
jokes in that direction, and remained in a lower circle. Zachariä
occupies himself much with country noblemen, comically sets forth
their tastes and peculiarities, but this is done without contempt.
Thümmel's _Wilhelmine_, an ingenious little composition, as pleasant
as it is bold, gained great applause, perhaps because the author,
himself a nobleman and courtier, treated his own class unsparingly. But
the boldest step was taken by Lessing, in his _Emilia Galotti_, where
the passions and intrigues of the higher classes are delineated in
a bitter and cutting manner. All these things perfectly corresponded
to the excited spirit of the time; and men of less mind and talent
thought they might do the same, or even more; as indeed Grossmann,
in six unsavoury dishes, served up to the malicious public all the
tidbits of his vulgar kitchen. An honest man, Hofrath Reinhardt, was
the major-domo at this unpleasant board, to the comfort and edification
of all the guests. From this time forward the theatrical villains were
always chosen from the higher ranks; and a person must be a gentleman
of the bedchamber, or at least a private secretary, to be worthy of
such a distinction. But for the most godless examples, the highest
offices and places in the court and civil list were chosen, in which
high society, even the justiciaries, found their place as villains of
the first water.

But as I must fear already that I have been carried beyond the time
which is now the subject in hand, I return back to myself, to mention
the impulse which I felt to occupy myself in my leisure hours with the
theatrical plans which I had once devised.

By my lasting interest in Shakspeare's works, I had so expanded
my mind, that the narrow compass of the stage and the short time
allotted to a representation, seemed to me by no means sufficient to
bring forward something important. The life of the gallant Götz von
Berlichingen, written by himself, impelled me into the historic mode
of treatment; and my imagination so much extended itself, that my
dramatic form also went beyond all theatrical bounds, and sought more
and more to approach the living events. I had, as I proceeded, talked
circumstantially on this subject with my sister, who was interested,
heart and soul, in such things, and renewed this conversation so often,
without going to any work, that she at last, growing impatient, and at
the same time wishing me well, urgently entreated me not to be always
casting my words into the air, but, once for all, to set down upon
paper that which must have been so present to my mind. Determined by
this impulse, I began one morning to write, without having made any
previous sketch or plan. I wrote the first scenes, and in the evening
they were read aloud to Cornelia. She gave them much applause, but only
conditionally, since she doubted that I should go on so; nay, she even
expressed a decided unbelief in my perseverance. This only incited me
the more; I wrote on the next day, and also the third. Hope increased
with the daily communications, and from step to step everything gained
more life, while the matter, moreover, had become thoroughly my own.
Thus I kept, without interruption, to my work, which I pursued straight
on, looking neither backwards nor forwards,--neither to the right nor
to the left; and in about six weeks I had the pleasure to see the
manuscript stitched. I communicated it to Merck, who spoke sensibly and
kindly about it. I sent it to Herder, who, on the contrary, expressed
himself unkindly and severely, and did not fail, in some lampoons
written for the occasion, to give me nicknames on account of it. I did
not allow myself to be perplexed by this, but took a clear view of my
object. The die was now cast, and the only question was how to play the
game best. I plainly saw that even here no one would advise me; and,
as after some time I could regard my work as if it had proceeded from
another hand, I indeed perceived that in my attempt to renounce unity
of time and place, I had also infringed upon that higher unity which is
so much the more required. Since, without plan or sketch, I had merely
abandoned myself to my imagination and to an internal impulse, I had
not deviated much at the beginning, and the first acts could fairly
pass for what they were intended to be. In the following acts, however,
and especially towards the end, I was unconsciously carried along by
a wonderful passion. While trying to describe Adelheid as amiable, I
had fallen in love with her myself,--my pen was involuntarily devoted
to her alone,--the interest in her fate gained the preponderance; and
as, apart from this consideration. Götz, towards the end, is without
activity, and afterwards only returns to an unlucky participation in
the _Bauernkrieg_[3] nothing was more natural than that a charming
woman should supplant him in the mind of the author, who, casting
off the fetters of art, thought to try himself in a new field. This
defect, or rather this culpable superfluity, I soon perceived, since
the nature of my poetry always impelled me to unity. I now, instead of
the biography of Götz and German antiquities, kept my own work in mind,
and sought to give it more and more historical and national substance,
and to cancel that which was fabulous or merely proceeded from passion.
In this I indeed sacrificed much, as the inclination of the man had
to yield to the conviction of the artist. Thus, for instance, I
had pleased myself highly by malting Adelheid enter into a terrific
nocturnal gipsy-scene, and perform wonders by her beautiful presence.
A nearer examination banished her; and the love-affair between Franz
and his noble, gracious lady, which was very circumstantially carried
on in the fourth and fifth acts, was much condensed, and could only be
suffered to appear in its chief points.

[Side-note: Goetz von Berlichingen.]

Therefore, without altering anything in the first manuscript, which I
still actually possess in its original shape, I determined to rewrite
the whole, and did this with such activity, that in a few weeks an
entirely new-made piece lay before me. I went to work upon this
all the quicker, the less my intention was ever to have the second
poem printed, as I looked upon this likewise as a mere preparatory
exercise, which in future I should again lay at the foundation of a new
treatment, to be accomplished with greater industry and deliberation.

When I began to lay before Merck many proposals as to the way in which
I should set about this task, he laughed at me, and asked what was the
meaning of this perpetual writing and rewriting? The thing, he said,
by this means, becomes only different, and seldom better; one must see
what effect one thing produces, and then again try something new. "Be
in time at the hedge, if you would dry your linen."[4] he exclaimed,
in the words of the proverb; hesitation and delay only make uncertain
men. On the other hand, I replied to him that it would be unpleasant
to me to offer to a bookseller a work on which I had bestowed so much
affection, and perhaps to receive a refusal as an answer; for how would
they judge of a young, nameless, and also audacious author? As my
dread of the press gradually vanished, I had wished to see printed my
comedy _Die Mitschuldigen_, upon which I set some value, but I found no
publisher inclined in my favour.

Here the technically mercantile taste of my friend was at once excited.
By means of the _Frankfort Zeitung_ (Gazette), he had already formed a
connexion with learned men and booksellers, and therefore he thought
that we ought to publish at our own expense this singular and certainly
striking work, and that we should derive a larger profit from it.
Like many others, he used often to reckon up for the booksellers
their profit, which with many works was certainly great, especially
if one left out of the account how much was lost by other writings
and commercial affairs. Enough, it was settled that I should procure
the paper, and that he should take care of the printing. Thus we went
heartily to work, and I was not displeased gradually to see my wild
dramatic sketch in clean proof-sheets; it looked really neater than I
myself expected. We completed the work, and it was sent off in many
parcels. Before long a great commotion arose everywhere; the attention
which it created became universal. But because, with our limited means,
the copies could not be sent quick enough to all parts, a pirated
edition suddenly made its appearance. As, moreover, there could be no
immediate return, especially in ready money, for the copies sent out,
so was I, as a young man in a family whose treasury could not be in an
abundant condition, at the very time when much attention, nay, much
applause was bestowed upon me, extremely perplexed as to how I should
pay for the paper by means of which I had made the world acquainted
with my talent. On the other hand, Merck, who knew better how to help
himself, entertained the best hopes that all would soon come right
again; but I never perceived that to be the case.

[Side-note: Goetz von Berlichingen.]

Through the little pamphlets which I had published anonymously, I had,
at my own expense, learned to know the critics and the public; and I
was thus pretty well prepared for praise and blame, especially as for
many years I had constantly folio wed up the subject, and had observed
how those authors were treated, to whom I had devoted particular
attention.

Here even in my uncertainty, I could plainly remark how much that was
groundless, one-sided, and arbitrary, was recklessly uttered. Now
the same thing befel me, and if I had not had some basis of my own,
how much would the contradictions of cultivated men have perplexed
me! Thus, for instance, there was in the _German Mercury_ a diffuse,
well-meant criticism, composed by some man of limited mind. Where he
found fault, I could not agree with him,--still less when he stated
how the affair could have been done otherwise. It was therefore highly
gratifying to me, when immediately afterwards I found a pleasant
explanation by Wieland, who in general opposed the critic, and took
my part against him. However, the former review was printed likewise;
I saw an example of the dull state of mind among well-informed and
cultivated men. How, then, would it look with the great public!

The pleasure of talking over such things with Merck, and thus
gaining light upon them, was of short duration, for the intelligent
Landgravine of Hesse-Darmstadt took him with her train on her journey
to Petersburg. The detailed letters which he wrote to me gave me a
farther insight into the world, which I could the more make my own
as the descriptions were made by a well-known and friendly hand. But
nevertheless I remained very solitary for a long time, and was deprived
just at this important epoch of his enlightening sympathy, of which I
then stood in so much need.

Just as one embraces the determination to become a soldier, and go to
the wars, and courageously resolves to bear danger and difficulties,
as well as to endure wounds and pains, and even death, but at the
same time never calls to mind the particular cases in which those
generally anticipated evils may surprise us in an extremely unpleasant
manner,--so it is with every one who ventures into the world,
especially an author; and so it was with me. As the great part of
mankind is more excited by a subject than by the treatment of it, so
it was to the subject that the sympathy of young men for my pieces was
generally owing. They thought they could see in them a banner, under
the guidance of which all that is wild and unpolished in youth might
find a vent; and those of the very best brains, who had previously
harboured a similar crotchet, were thus carried away. I still possess a
letter--I know not to whom--from the excellent and, in many respects,
unique Bürger, which may serve as an important voucher of the effect
and excitement which was then produced by that phenomenon. On the other
side, some men blamed me for painting the club-law in too favourable
colours, and even attributed to me the intention of bringing those
disorderly times back again. Others took me for a profoundly learned
man, and wished me to publish a new edition, with notes, of the
original narrative of the good Götz;--a task to which I felt by no
means adapted, although I allowed my name to be put on the title to the
new impression. Because I had understood how to gather the flowers of
a great existence, they took me for a careful gardener. However, this
learning and profound knowledge of mine were much doubted by others.
A respectable man of business quite unexpectedly pays me a visit.
I find myself highly honoured by this, especially as he opens his
discourse with the praise of my _Götz von Berlichingen_, and my good
insight into German history, but I am nevertheless astonished when
I remark that he has really come for the sole purpose of informing
me that Götz von Berlichingen was no brother-in-law to Franz von
Sichingen, and that therefore by this poetical matrimonial alliance I
have committed a great historical error. I sought to excuse myself by
the fact, that Götz himself calls him so, but was met by the reply,
that this is a form of expression which only denotes a nearer and
more friendly connexion, just as in modern times we call postilions
"brothers-in-law,"[5] without being bound to them by any family tie. I
thanked him as well as I could for this information, and only regretted
that the evil was now not to be remedied. This was regretted by him
also, while he exhorted me in the kindest manner to a further study of
the German history and constitution, and offered me his library, of
which I afterwards made a good use.

[Side-note: Goetz von Berlichingen.]

A droll event of the sort which occurred to me was the visit of a
bookseller, who, with cheerful openness, requested a dozen of such
pieces, and promised to pay well for them. That we made ourselves very
merry about this may be imagined; and yet, in fact, he was not so very
far wrong, for I was already greatly occupied in moving backwards and
forwards from this turning-point in German history, and in working up
the chief events in a similar spirit--a laudable design, which, like
many others, was frustrated by the rushing flight of time.

That play, however, had not solely occupied the author, but while
it was devised, written, rewritten, printed, and circulated, other
images and plans were moving in his mind. Those which could be treated
dramatically had the advantage of being oftenest thought over and
brought near to execution; but at the same time was developed a
transition to another form, which is not usually classed with those of
the drama, but yet has a great affinity with them. This transition was
chiefly brought about by a peculiarity of the author, which fashioned
soliloquy into dialogue.

Accustomed to pass his time most pleasantly in society, he changed
even solitary thought into social converse, and this in the following
manner:--He had the habit, when he was alone, of calling before his
mind any person of his acquaintance. This person he entreated to sit
down, walked up and down by him, remained standing before him, and
discoursed with him on the subject he had in his mind. To this the
person answered as occasion required, or by the ordinary gestures
signified his assent or dissent;--in which every man has something
peculiar to himself. The speaker then continued to carry out further
that which seemed to please the guest, or to condition and define more
closely that of which he disapproved; and, finally, was polite enough
to give up his notion. The oddest part of the affair was, that he never
selected persons of his intimate acquaintance, but those whom he saw
but seldom, nay, several who lived at a distance in the world, and with
whom he had had a transient connexion. They were, however, chiefly
persons who, more of a receptive than communicative nature, are ready
with a pure feeling to take interest in the things which fall within
their sphere, though he often summoned contradicting spirits to these
dialectic exercises. Persons of both sexes, of every age and rank
accommodated themselves to these discussions, and showed themselves
obliging and agreeable, since he only conversed on subjects which
were clear to them, and which they liked. Nevertheless, it would have
appeared extremely strange to many of them, could they have learned how
often they were summoned to these ideal conversations, since many of
them would scarcely have come to a real one.

How nearly such a mental dialogue is akin to a written correspondence,
is clear enough; only in the latter one sees returned the confidence
one has bestowed, while in the former, one creates for oneself
a confidence which is new, ever-changing, and unreturned. When,
therefore, he had to describe that disgust which men, without being
driven by necessity, feel for life, the author necessarily hit at once
upon the plan of giving his sentiments in letters; for all gloominess
is a birth, a pupil of solitude--whoever resigns himself to it flies
all opposition, and what is more opposed to him than a cheerful
society? The enjoyment in life felt by others is to him a painful
reproach; and thus, by that which should charm him out of himself, he
is directed back to his inmost soul. If he at all expresses himself
on this matter, it will be by letters; for no one feels immediately
opposed to a written effusion, whether it be joyful or gloomy,
while an answer containing opposite reasons gives the lonely one an
opportunity to confirm himself in his whims,--an occasion to grow still
more obdurate. The letters of Werther, which are written in this
spirit, have so various a charm, precisely because their different
contents were first talked over with several individuals in such ideal
dialogues, while it was afterwards in the composition itself that they
appeared to be directed to one friend and sympathizer. To say more
on the treatment of a little book which has formed the subject of so
much discussion, would be hardly advisable, but, with respect to the
contents, something may yet be added.

[Side-note: Weariness of Life.]

That disgust at life has its physical and its moral causes; the former
we will leave to the investigation of the physician, the latter to that
of the moralist, and in a matter so often elaborated, only consider the
chief point, where the phenomenon most plainly expresses itself. All
comfort in life is based upon a regular recurrence of external things.
The change of day and night--of the seasons, of flowers and fruits, and
whatever else meets us from epoch to epoch, so that we can and should
enjoy it--these are the proper springs of earthly life. The more open
we are to these enjoyments, the happier do we feel ourselves; out if
the changes in these phenomena roll up and down before us without our
taking interest in them, if we are insensible to such beautiful offers,
then comes on the greatest evil, the heaviest disease--we regard life
as a disgusting burden. It is said of an Englishman, that he hanged
himself that he might no longer dress and undress himself every day.
I knew a worthy gardener, the superintendent of the laying out of a
large park, who once cried out with vexation, "Shall I always see these
clouds moving from east to west?" The story is told of one of our
most excellent men, that he saw with vexation the returning green of
spring, and wished that, by way of change, it might once appear red.
These are properly the symptoms of a weariness of life, which does not
unfrequently result in suicide, and which, in thinking men, absorbed in
themselves, was more frequent than can be imagined.

Nothing occasions this weariness more than the return of love. The
first love, it is rightly said, is the only one, for in the second,
and by the second, the highest sense of love is already lost. The
conception of the eternal and infinite, which elevates and supports
it, is destroyed, and it appears transient like everything else that
recurs. The separation of the sensual from the moral, which, in the
complicated, cultivated world sunders the feelings of love and desire,
produces here also an exaggeration which can lead to no good.

Moreover, a young man soon perceives in others, if not in himself,
that moral epochs change as well as the seasons of the year. The
graciousness of the great, the favour of the strong, the encouragement
of the active, the attachment of the multitude, the love of
individuals--all this changes up and down, and we can no more hold it
fast than the sun, moon, and stars. And yet these things are not mere
natural events; they escape us either by our own or by another's fault;
but change they do, and we are never sure of them.

But that which most pains a sensitive youth is the unceasing return of
our faults; for how late do we learn to see that while we cultivate
our virtues, we rear our faults at the same time. The former depend
upon the latter as upon their root, and the latter send forth secret
ramifications as strong and as various as those which the former send
forth in open light. Because now we generally practise our virtues with
will and consciousness, but are unconsciously surprised by our faults,
the former seldom procure us any pleasure, while the latter constantly
bring trouble and pain. Here lies the most difficult point in
self-knowledge, that which makes it almost impossible. If we conceive,
in addition to all this, a young, boiling blood, an imagination easily
to be paralyzed by single objects, and, moreover, the uncertain
movements of the day, we shall not find unnatural an impatient striving
to free oneself from such a strait.

However, such gloomy contemplations, which lead him who has resigned
himself to them into the infinite, could not have developed themselves
so decidedly in the minds of the German youths, had not an outward
occasion excited and furthered them in this dismal business. This
was caused by English literature, especially the poetical part, the
great beauties of which are accompanied by an earnest melancholy,
which it communicates to every one who occupies himself with it. The
intellectual Briton, from his youth upwards, sees himself surrounded
by a significant world, which stimulates all his powers; he perceives,
sooner or later, that he must collect all his understanding to come to
terms with it. How many of their poets have in their youth led a loose
and riotous life, and soon found themselves justified in complaining of
the vanity of earthly things? How many of them have tried their fortune
in worldly occupations, have taken parts, principal or subordinate,
in parliament, at court, in the ministry, in situations with the
embassy, shown their active co-operation in the internal troubles and
changes of state and government, and if not in themselves, at any rate
in their friends and patrons, more frequently made sad than pleasant
experiences! How many have been banished, imprisoned, or injured with
respect to property!

[Side-note: Effect of English poetry.]

Even the circumstance of being the spectator of such great events calls
man to seriousness; and whither can seriousness lead farther than
to a contemplation of the transient nature and worthlessness of all
earthly things? The German also is serious, and thus English poetry
was extremely suitable to him, and, because it proceeded from a higher
state of things, even imposing. One finds in it throughout a great,
apt understanding, well practised in the world, a deep, tender heart,
an excellent will, an impassioned action,--the very noblest qualities
which can be praised in an intellectual and cultivated man; but all
this put together still makes no poet. True poetry announces itself
thus, that, as a worldly gospel, it can by internal cheerfulness and
external comfort free us from the earthly burdens which press upon us.
Like an air-balloon, it lifts us, together with the ballast which is
attached to us, into higher regions, and lets the confused labyrinths
of the earth lie developed before us as in a bird's-eye view. The
most lively, as well as the most serious works, have the same aim of
moderating both pleasure and pain by a felicitous intellectual form.
Let us only in this spirit consider the majority of the English poems,
chiefly morally didactic, and on the average they will only show us a
gloomy weariness of life. Not only Young's _Night Thoughts_, where this
theme is pre-eminently worked out, but even the other contemplative
poems stray, before one is aware of it, into this dismal region, where
the understanding is presented with a problem which it cannot solve,
since even religion, much as it can always construct for itself, leaves
it in the lurch. Whole volumes might be compiled, which could serve as
a commentary to this frightful text--

    "Then old age and experience, hand in hand,
     Lead him to death, and make him understand,
     After a search so painful and so long,
     That all his life he has been in the wrong."

What further makes the English poets accomplished misanthropes, and
diffuses over their writings the unpleasant feeling of repugnance
against everything, is the fact that the whole of them, on account of
the various divisions of their commonwealth, must devote themselves
for the best part, if not for the whole of their lives, to one party or
another. Because now a writer of the sort cannot praise and extol those
of the party to which he belongs, nor the cause to which he adheres,
since, if he did, he would only excite envy and hostility, he exercises
his talent in speaking as badly as possible of those on the opposite
side, and in sharpening, nay, poisoning the satirical weapons as much
as he can. When this is done by both parties, the world which lies
between is destroyed and wholly annihilated, so that in a great mass
of sensibly active people, one can discover, to use the mildest terms,
nothing but folly and madness. Even their tender poems are occupied
with mournful subjects. Here a deserted girl is dying, there a faithful
lover is drowned, or is devoured by a shark before, by his hurried
swimming, he reaches his beloved; and if a poet like Gray lies down in
a churchyard, and again begins those well-known melodies, he too may
gather round him a number of friends to melancholy. Milton's _Allegro_
must scare away gloom in vehement verses, before he can attain a very
moderate pleasure; and even the cheerful Goldsmith loses himself in
elegiac feelings, when his _Deserted Village_, as charmingly as sadly,
exhibits to us a lost Paradise which his _Traveller_ seeks over the
whole earth.

I do not doubt that lively works, cheerful poems, can be brought
forward and opposed to what I have said, but the greatest number, and
the best of them, certainly belong to the older epoch; and the newer
works, which may be set down in the class, are likewise of a satirical
tendency, are bitter, and treat women especially with contempt.

Enough: those serious poems, undermining human nature, which, in
general terms, have been mentioned above, were the favourites
which we sought out before all others, one seeking, according to
his disposition, the lighter elegiac melancholy, another the heavy
oppressive despair, which gives up everything. Strangely enough, our
father and instructor, Shakspeare, who so well knew how to diffuse a
pure cheerfulness, strengthened our feeling of dissatisfaction. Hamlet
and his soliloquies were spectres which haunted all the young minds.
The chief passages every one knew by heart and loved to recite, and
every body fancied he had a right to be just as melancholy as the
Prince of Denmark, though he had seen no ghost, and had no royal father
to avenge.

But that to all this melancholy a perfectly suitable locality might not
be wanting, Ossian had charmed us even to the _Ultima Thule_, where
on a gray, boundless heath, wandering among prominent moss-covered
grave-stones, we saw the grass around us moved by an awful wind, and
a heavily clouded sky above us. It was not till moonlight that the
Caledonian night became day; departed heroes, faded maidens, floated
around us, until at last we really thought we saw the spirit of Loda in
his fearful form.

In such an element, with such surrounding influences, with tastes and
studies of this kind, tortured by unsatisfied passions, by no means
excited from without to important actions, with the sole prospect that
we must adhere to a dull, spiritless, citizen life, we became--in
gloomy wantonness--attached to the thought, that we could at all events
quit life at pleasure, if it no longer suited us, and thus miserably
enough helped ourselves through the disgusts and weariness of the
days. This feeling was so general, that _Werther_ produced its great
effect precisely because it struck a chord everywhere, and openly
and intelligibly exhibited the internal nature of a morbid youthful
delusion. How accurately the English were acquainted with this sort of
wretchedness is shown by the few significant lines, written before the
appearance of _Werther_--

    "To griefs congenial prone,
     More wounds than nature gave he knew,
     While misery's form his fancy drew
     In dark ideal hues and horrors not its own."

[Side-note: Suicide.]

Suicide is an event of human nature which, whatever may be said and
done with respect to it, demands the sympathy of every man, and in
every epoch must be discussed anew. Montesquieu grants his heroes and
great men the right of killing themselves as they think fit, since he
says that it must be free to every one to close the fifth act of his
tragedy as he pleases. But here the discourse is not of those persons
who have led an active and important life, who have sacrificed their
days for a great empire, or for the cause of freedom, and whom one
cannot blame if they think to follow in another world the idea which
inspires them, as soon as it has vanished from the earth. We have
here to do with those whose life is embittered by a want of action,
in the midst of the most peaceful circumstances in the world, through
exaggerated demands upon themselves. Since I myself was in this
predicament, and best knew the pain I suffered in it, and the exertion
it cost me to free myself, I will not conceal the reflections which I
made, with much deliberation, on the various kinds of death which one
might choose.

There is something so unnatural in a man tearing himself away from
himself, not only injuring, but destroying himself, that he mostly
seizes upon mechanical means to carry his design into execution. When
Ajax falls upon his sword, it is the weight of his body which does him
the last service. When the warrior binds his shield-bearer not to let
him fall into the hands of the enemy, it is still an external force
which he secures, only a moral instead of a physical one. Women seek
in water a cooling for their despair, and the extremely mechanical
means of fire-arms ensure a rapid act with the very least exertion.
Hanging, one does not like to mention, because it is an ignoble death.
In England one may first find it, because there, from youth upwards,
one sees so many hanged, without the punishment being precisely
dishonourable. By poison, by opening the veins, the only intention is
to depart slowly from life; and that most refined, rapid, and painless
death by an adder, was worthy of a queen, who had passed her life in
pleasure and brilliancy. But all these are external aids, enemies with
which man forms an alliance against himself.

When now I considered all these means, and looked about further in
history, I found among all those who killed themselves no one who did
this deed with such greatness and freedom of mind, as the Emperor
Otho. He, having the worst of it as a general, but being by no means
reduced to extremities, resolves to quit the world for the benefit of
the empire, which, in some measure, already belongs to him, and for
the sake of sparing so many thousands. He has a cheerful supper with
his friends, and the next morning it is found that he has plunged a
sharp dagger into his heart. This deed alone seemed to me worthy of
imitation; and I was convinced that whoever could not act in this
like Otho, had no right to go voluntarily out of the world. By these
convictions, I freed myself not so much from the danger as from the
whim of suicide, which in those splendid times of peace, and with
an indolent youth, had managed to creep in. Among a considerable
collection of weapons, I possessed a handsome, well polished dagger.
This I laid every night by my bed, and before I extinguished the
candle, I tried whether I could succeed in plunging the sharp point
a couple of inches deep into my heart. Since I never could succeed
in this, I at last laughed myself out of the notion, threw off all
hypochondriacal fancies, and resolved to live. But to be able to do
this with cheerfulness, I was obliged to solve a poetical problem, by
which all that I had felt, thought, and fancied upon this important
point, should be reduced to words. For this purpose I collected the
elements which had been at work in me for a few years; I rendered
present to my mind the cases which had most afflicted and tormented me;
but nothing would come to a definite form; I lacked an event, a fable,
in which they could be overlooked.

[Side-note: Jerusalem's Death.]

All at once I heard the news of Jerusalem's death, and immediately
after the general report, the most accurate and circumstantial
description of the occurrence, and at this moment the plan of _Werther_
was formed, and the whole shot together from all sides, and became a
solid mass, just as water in a vessel, which stands upon the point of
freezing, is concerted into hard ice by the most gentle shake. To hold
fast this singular prize, to render present to myself, and to carry out
in all its parts a work of such important and various contents was the
more material to me, as I had again fallen into a painful situation,
which left me even less hope than those which had preceded it, and
foreboded only sadness, if not vexation.

It is always a misfortune to step into new relations to which one has
not been inured; we are often against our will lured into a false
sympathy, the incompleteness[6] of such positions troubles us, and yet
we see no means either of completing them or of removing them.

Frau von Laroche had married her eldest daughter at Frankfort, and
often came to visit her, but could not reconcile herself to the
position which she herself had chosen. Instead of feeling comfortable,
or endeavouring to make any alteration, she indulged in lamentations,
so that one was really forced to think that her daughter was unhappy;
although, as she wanted nothing, and her husband denied her nothing,
one could not well see in what her unhappiness properly consisted. In
the meanwhile I was well received in the house, and came into contact
with the whole circle, which consisted of persons who had partly
contributed to the marriage, partly wished for it a happy result.
The Dean of St. Leonhard, Dumeitz, conceived a confidence, nay, a
friendship for me. He was the first Catholic clergyman with whom I had
come into close contact, and who, because he was a clear-sighted man,
gave me beautiful and sufficient explanations of the faith, usages, and
external and internal relations of the oldest church. The figure of a
well-formed though not young lady, named Servières, I still accurately
remember. I likewise came into contact with the Alossina-Schweizer,
and other families, forming a connexion with the sons, which long
continued in the most friendly manner, and all at once found myself
domesticated in a strange circle, in the occupations, pleasures, and
even religious exercises of winch I was induced, nay, compelled to
take part. My former relation to the young wife, which was, properly
speaking, only that of a brother to a sister, was continued after
marriage; my age was suitable to her own; I was the only one in the
whole circle in whom she heard an echo of those intellectual tones to
which she had been accustomed from her youth. We lived on together
in a childish confidence, and although there was nothing impassioned
in our intercourse, it was tormenting enough, because she also could
not reconcile herself to her new circumstances, and although blessed
with the goods of fortune, had to act as the mother of several
step-children, being moreover transplanted from the cheerful vale of
Ehrenbreitstein and a joyous state of youth into a gloomily-situated
mercantile house. Amid so many new family connexions was I hemmed in,
without any real participation or co-operation. If they were satisfied
with each other, all seemed to go on as a matter of course; but most
of the parties concerned turned to me in cases of vexation, which by
my lively sympathy I generally rendered worse rather than better. In
a short time this situation became quite insupportable to me; all
the disgust at life which usually springs from such half-connexions,
seemed to burden me with double and three-fold weight, and a new strong
resolution was necessary to free myself from it.

Jerusalem's death, which was occasioned by his unhappy attachment to
the wife of his friend, shook me out of the dream, and, because I
not only visibly contemplated that which had occurred to him and me,
but something similar which befel me at the moment, also stirred me
to passionate emotion, I could not do otherwise than breathe into
that production, which I had just undertaken, all that warmth which
leaves no distinction between the poetical and the actual. I had
completely isolated myself, nay, prohibited the visits of my friends,
and internally also I put everything aside that did not immediately
belong to the subject. On the other hand, I embraced everything that
had any relation to my design, and repeated to myself my nearest life,
of the contents of which I had as yet made no practical use. Under such
circumstances, after such long and so many preparations in secret,
I wrote _Werther_ in four weeks without any scheme of the whole, or
treatment of any part, being previously put on paper.

[Side-note: Werther.]

The manuscript, which was now finished, lay before me as a rough
draught, with few corrections and alterations. It was stitched at once,
for the binding is to a written work of about the same use as the
frame is to a picture; one can much better see whether there is really
anything in it. Since I had written thus much, almost unconsciously,
like a somnambulist, I was myself astonished, now I went through
it, that I might alter and improve it in some respects. But in the
expectation that after some time, when I had seen it at a certain
distance, much would occur to me that would turn to the advantage
of the work, I gave it to my younger friends to read, upon whom it
produced an effect so much the greater, as, contrary to my usual
custom, I had told no one of it, nor discovered my design beforehand.
Yet here again it was the subject-matter which really produced the
effect, and in this respect they were in a frame of mind precisely the
reverse of my own; for by this composition, more than by any other, I
had freed myself from that stormy element, upon which, through my own
fault and that of others, through a mode of life both accidental and
chosen, through design and thoughtless precipitation, through obstinacy
and pliability, I had been driven about in the most violent manner. I
felt, as if after a general confession, once more happy and free, and
justified in beginning a new life.

The old nostrum had been of excellent service to me on this occasion.
But while I felt myself eased and enlightened by having turned reality
into poetry, my friends were led astray by my work, for they thought
that poetry ought to be turned into reality, that such a moral was to
be imitated, and that at any rate one ought to shoot oneself. What had
first happened here among a few, afterwards took place among the larger
public, and this little book, which had been so beneficial to me, was
decried as extremely injurious.

But all the evils and misfortunes which it may have produced were
nearly prevented by an accident, since even after its production it ran
the risk of being destroyed. The matter stood thus:--Merck had lately
returned from Petersburg; I had spoken to him but little, because he
was always occupied, and only told him, in the most general terms, of
that _Werther_ which lay next my heart. He once called upon me, and as
he did not seem very talkative, I asked him to listen to me. He seated
himself on the sofa, and I began to read the tale, letter by letter.
After I had gone on thus for a while, without gaining from him any
sign of admiration, I adopted a more pathetic strain,--but what were
my feelings, when at a pause which I made, he struck me down in the
most frightful manner, with "Good! that's very pretty," and withdrew
without adding anything more. I was quite beside myself, for, as I took
great pleasure in my works, but at first passed no judgment on them, I
here firmly believed that I had made a mistake in subject, tone, and
style--all of which were doubtful--and had produced something quite
inadmissible. Had a fire been at hand, I should at once have thrown
in the work; but I again plucked up courage, and passed many painful
days, until he at last assured me in confidence, that at that moment he
had been in the most frightful situation in which a man can be placed.
On this account, he said, he had neither seen nor heard anything, and
did not even know what the manuscript was about. In the meanwhile
the matter had been set right, as far as was possible, and Merck,
in the times of his energy, was just the man to accommodate himself
to anything monstrous; his humour returned, only it had grown still
more bitter than before. He blamed my design of rewriting _Werther_,
with the same expressions which he had used on a former occasion, and
desired to see it printed just as it was. A fair copy was made, which
did not remain long in my hands, for on the very day on which my sister
was married to George Schlosser, a letter from Weygand, of Leipzig,
chanced to arrive, in which he asked me for a manuscript; such a
coincidence I looked upon as a favourable omen. I sent off _Werther_,
and was very well satisfied, when the remuneration I received for it
was not entirely swallowed up by the debts which I had been forced to
contract on account of _Götz von Berlichingen._

[Side-note: Effect of Werther.]

The effect of this little book was great, nay immense, and chiefly
because it exactly hit the temper of the times. For as it requires
but a little match to blow up an immense mine, so the explosion
which followed my publication was mighty, from the circumstance that
the youthful world had already undermined itself; and the shock was
great, because all extravagant demands, unsatisfied passions, and
imaginary wrongs, were suddenly brought to an eruption. It cannot be
expected of the public that it should receive an intellectual work
intellectually. In fact, it was only the subject, the material part,
that was considered, as I had already found to be the case among my own
friends; while at the same time arose that old prejudice, associated
with the dignity of a printed book,--that it ought to have a moral aim.
But a true picture of life has none. It neither approves nor censures,
but developes sentiments and actions in their consequences, and thereby
enlightens and instructs.

Of the reviews I took little notice. I had completely washed my hands
of the matter, and the good folks might now try what they could make
of it. Yet my friends did not fail to collect these things, and as
they were already initiated into my views, to make merry with them.
The _Joys of Young Werther_, with which Nicolai came forth, gave us
occasion for many a jest. This otherwise excellent, meritorious,
and well-informed man, had already begun to depreciate and oppose
everything that did not accord with his own way of thinking, which,
as he was of a very narrow mind, he held to be the only correct way.
Against me, too, he must needs try his strength, and his pamphlet was
soon in our hands. The very delicate vignette, by Chodowiecki, gave
me much delight; as at that time I admired this artist extravagantly.
The jumbling medley itself was cut out of that rough household stuff,
which the human understanding, in its homely limits, takes especial
pains to make sufficiently coarse. Without perceiving that there was
nothing here to qualify, that Werther's youthful bloom, from the very
first, appears gnawed by the deadly worm, Nicolai allows my treatment
to pass current up to the two hundred and fourteenth page, and then,
when the desolate mortal is preparing for the fatal step, the acute
psychological physician contrives to palm upon his patient a pistol,
loaded with chickens' blood, from which a filthy spectacle, but happily
no mischief, arises. Charlotte becomes the wife of Werther, and the
whole affair ends to the satisfaction of everybody.

So much I can recall to memory, for the book never came before my
eyes again. I had cut out the vignette, and placed it among my most
favourite engravings. I then, by way of quiet, innocent revenge,
composed a little burlesque poem, "Nicolai at the grave of Werther:"
which, however, cannot be communicated. On this occasion, too, the
pleasure of giving everything a dramatic shape, was again predominant.
I wrote a prose dialogue between Charlotte and Werther, which was
tolerably comical; Werther bitterly complains that his deliverance
by chickens' blood has turned out so badly. His life is saved, it is
true, but he has shot his eyes out. He is now in despair at being
her husband, without being able to see her; for the complete view of
her person would to him be much dearer than all those pretty details
of which he could assure himself by the touch. Charlotte, as may be
imagined, has no great catch in a blind husband, and thus occasion is
given to abuse Nicolai pretty roundly, for interfering unasked in other
people's affairs. The whole was written in a good-natured spirit, and
painted, with prophetic forebodings, that unhappy, conceited humour
of Nicolai's, which led him to meddle with things beyond his compass,
which gave great annoyance both to himself and others, and by which,
eventually, in spite of his undoubted merits, he entirely destroyed
his literary reputation. The original of this _jeu d'esprit_ was
never copied, and has been lost sight of for years. I had a special
predilection for the little production. The pure ardent attachment
of the two young persons, was rather heightened than diminished by
the comico-tragic situation into which they were thus transposed. The
greatest tenderness prevailed throughout; and even my adversary was not
treated illnaturedly, but only humourously. I did not, however, let the
book itself speak quite so politely; in imitation of an old rhyme it
expressed itself thus:--

    "By that conceited man--by _him_
     I'm dangerous declar'd,
     The heavy man, who cannot swim,
     Is by the water scar'd,
     That Berlin pack, priest-ridden lot--
     Their ban I do not heed,
     And those who understand me not
     Should better learn to read."

[Side-note: Effect of Werther.]

Being prepared for all that might be alleged against _Werther_, I
found those attacks, numerous as they were, by no means annoying; but
I had no anticipation of the intolerable torment provided for me by
sympathizers and well-wishers. These, instead of saying anything civil
to me about my book just as it was, wished to know, one and all, what
was really true in it; at which I grew very angry, and often expressed
myself with great discourtesy. To answer this question, I should have
been obliged to pull to pieces and destroy the form of a work on which
I had so long pondered, with the view of giving a poetical unity to its
many elements; and in this operation, if the essential parts were not
destroyed, they would, at least, have been scattered and dispersed.
However, upon a closer consideration of the matter, I could not take
the public inquisitiveness in ill part. Jerusalem's fate had excited
great attention. An educated, amiable, blameless young man, the son of
one of the first theologians and authors, healthy and opulent, had at
once, without any known cause, destroyed himself. Every one asked how
this was possible, and when they heard of an unfortunate love affair,
the whole youth were excited, and as soon as it transpired that some
little annoyances had occurred to him in the higher circles, the middle
classes also became excited; indeed every one was anxious to learn
further particulars. Now _Werther_ appeared an exact delineation, as it
was thought, of the life and character of that young man. The locality
and person tallied, and the narrative was so very natural, that they
considered themselves fully informed and satisfied. But, on the other
hand, on closer examination, there was so much that did not fit, that
there arose, for those who sought the truth, an unmanageable business,
because a critical investigation must necessarily produce a hundred
doubts. The real groundwork of the affair was, however, not to be
fathomed, for all that I had interwoven of my own life and suffering
could not be deciphered, because, as an unobserved young man, I had
secretly, though not silently, pursued my course.

While engaged in my work, I was fully aware how highly that artist was
favoured who had an opportunity of composing a Venus from the study of
a variety of beauties. Accordingly I took leave to model my Charlotte
according to the shape and qualities of several pretty girls, although
the chief characteristics were taken from the one I loved best. The
inquisitive public could therefore discover similarities in various
ladies; and even to the ladies themselves it was not quite indifferent
to be taken for the right one. But these several Charlottes caused
me infinite trouble, because every one who only looked at me seemed
determined to know where the proper one really resided. I endeavoured
to save myself, like Nathan[7] with the three rings, by an expedient,
which, though it might suit higher beings, would not satisfy either the
believing or the reading public. I hoped after a time to be freed from
such tormenting inquiries, but they pursued me through my whole life.
I sought, on my travels, to escape them, by assuming an _incognito_,
but even this remedy was, to my disappointment, unavailing, and thus
the author of the little work, had he even done anything wrong and
mischievous, was sufficiently, I may say disproportionately, punished
by such unavoidable importunities.

Subjected to this kind of infliction, I was taught but too
unequivocally, that authors and their public are separated by an
immense gulf, of which, happily, neither of them have any conception.
The uselessness, therefore, of all prefaces I had long ago seen; for
the more pains a writer takes to render his views clear, the more
occasion he gives for embarrassment. Besides, an author may preface as
elaborately as he will, the public will always go on making precisely
those demands which he has endeavoured to avoid. With a kindred
peculiarity of readers, which (particularly with those who print their
judgments) seems remarkably comical, I was likewise soon acquainted.
They live, for instance, in the delusion that an author, in producing
anything, becomes their debtor; and he always falls short of what they
wished and expected of him, although before they had seen our work,
they had not the least notion that anything of the kind existed, or
was even possible. Independent of all this, it was now the greatest
fortune, or misfortune, that every one wished to make the acquaintance
of this strange young author, who had stepped forward so unexpectedly
and so boldly. They desired to see him, to speak to him, and, even
at a distance, to hear something from him; thus he had to undergo a
very considerable crowd, sometimes pleasant, sometimes disagreeable,
but always distracting. For enough works already begun lay before him,
nay, and would have given him abundance of work for some years, if he
could have kept to them with his old fervour; but he was drawn forth
from the quiet, the twilight, the obscurity, which alone can favour
pure creation, into the noise of daylight, where one is lost in others,
where one is led astray, alike by sympathy and by coldness, by praise
and by blame, because outward contact never accords with the epoch
of our inner culture, and therefore, as it cannot further us, must
necessarily injure us.

[Side-note: Dramatic Tendency.]

Yet more than by all the distractions of the day, the author was kept
from the elaboration and completion of greater works by the taste then
prevalent in this society for _dramatizing_ everything of importance
which occurred in actual life. What that technical expression (for
such it was in our inventive society) really meant, shall here be
explained. Excited by intellectual meetings on days of hilarity, we
were accustomed, in short extemporary performances, to communicate, in
fragments, all the materials we had collected towards the formation of
larger compositions. One single simple incident, a pleasantly _naïve_
or even silly word, a blunder, a paradox, a clever remark, personal
singularities or habits, nay, a peculiar expression, and whatever else
would occur in a gay and bustling life--took the form of a dialogue, a
catechism, a passing scene, or a drama,--often in prose, but oftener in
verse.

By this practice, carried on with genial passion, the really poetic
mode of thought was established. We allowed objects, events, persons,
to stand for themselves in all their bearings, our only endeavour
being to comprehend them clearly, and exhibit them vividly. Every
expression of approbation or disapprobation was to pass in living forms
before the eyes of the spectator. These productions might be called
animated epigrams, which, though without edges or points, were richly
furnished with marked and striking features. The _Jahrmarktsfest_
(Fair-festival) is an epigram of this kind, or rather a collection of
such epigrams. All the characters there introduced are meant for actual
living members of that society, or for persons at least connected and
in some degree known to it; but the meaning of the riddle remained
concealed to the greater part; all laughed and few knew that their own
marked peculiarities served as the jest. The prologue to _Bahrdt's
Newest Revelations_ may be looked upon as a document of another kind;
the smallest pieces are among the miscellaneous poems, a great many
have been destroyed or lost, and some that still exist do not admit
of being published. Those which appeared in print only increased the
excitement of the public, and curiosity about the author; those which
were handed about in manuscript entertained the immediate circle,
which was continually increasing. Doctor Bahrdt, then at Giessen, paid
me a visit, apparently courteous and confiding; he laughed over the
prologue, and wished to be placed on a friendly footing. But we young
people still continued to omit no opportunity at social festivals,
of sporting, in a malicious vein, at the peculiarities which we had
remarked in others, and successfully exhibited.

If now it was by no means displeasing to the young author to be stared
at as a literary meteor, he nevertheless sought, with glad modesty,
to testify his esteem for the most deserving men of his country,
among whom, before all others, the admirable Justus Möser claims
especial mention. The little essays on political subjects by this
incomparable man, had been printed some years before in the _Osnabrück
Intelligenzblätter_, and made known to me through Herder, who
overlooked nothing of worth that appeared in his time, especially if
in print. Moser's daughter, Frau von Voigt, was occupied in collecting
these scattered papers. We had scarcely patience to wait for their
publication, and I placed myself in communication with her, to assure
her, with sincere interest, that the essays, which, both in matter and
form, had been addressed only to a limited circle, would be useful and
beneficial everywhere. She and her father received these assurances
from a stranger, not altogether unknown, in the kindest manner, since
an anxiety which they had felt, was thus preliminarily removed.

What is in the highest degree remarkable and commendable in these
little essays, all of which being composed in one spirit, form together
a perfect whole, is the very intimate knowledge they display of the
whole civil state of man. We see a system resting upon the past,
and still in vigorous existence. On the one hand there is a firm
adherence to tradition, on the other, movement and change which cannot
be prevented. Here alarm is felt at a useful novelty, there pleasure
in what is new, although it be useless, or even injurious. With what
freedom from prejudice the author explains the relative position
of different ranks, and the connexion in which cities, towns, and
villages mutually stand! We learn their prerogatives, together with
the legal grounds of them; we are told where the main capital of the
state is invested, and what interest it yields. We see property and its
advantages on the one hand, on the other, taxes and disadvantages of
various kinds; and then the numerous branches of industry; and in all
this past and present times are contrasted.

Osnaburg, as a member of the Hanseatic League, we are told, had in the
earlier periods an extensive and active commerce. According to the
circumstances of those times, it had a remarkable and fine situation;
it could receive the produce of the country, and was not too far
removed from the sea to transport it in its own ships. But now, in
later times, it lies deep in the interior, and is gradually removed and
shut out from the sea trade. How this has occurred, is explained in all
its bearings. The conflict between England and the coasts, and of the
havens with the interior, is mentioned; here are set forth the great
advantages of those who live on the sea-side, and deliberate plans are
proposed for enabling the inhabitants of the interior to obtain similar
advantages. We then learn a great deal about trades and handicrafts,
and how these have been outstripped by manufactures, and undermined by
shop-keeping; decline is pointed out as the result of various causes,
and this result, in its turn, as the cause of a further decline, in an
endless circle, which it is difficult to unravel; yet it is so clearly
set forth by the vigilant citizen, that one fancies one can see the way
to escape from it. The author throughout displays the clearest insight
into the most minute circumstances. His proposals, his counsel--nothing
is drawn from the air, and yet they are often impracticable; on
which account he calls his collection "patriotic fancies," although
everything in it is based on the actual and the possible.

[Side-note: Justus Moeser.]

But as everything in public life is influenced by domestic condition,
this especially engages his attention. As objects both of his serious
and sportive reflections, we find the changes in manners and customs,
dress, diet, domestic life, and education. It would be necessary to
indicate everything which exists in the civil and social world, to
exhaust the list of subjects which he discusses. And his treatment
of them is admirable. A thorough man of business discourses with the
people in weekly papers, respecting whatever a wise and beneficent
government undertakes or carries out, that he may bring it to
their comprehension in its true light. This is by no means done in
a learned manner, but in those varied forms which may be called
poetic, and which, in the best sense of the word, must certainly be
considered rhetorical. He is always elevated above his subject, and
understands how to give a cheerful view of the most serious subjects;
now half-concealed behind this or that mask, now speaking in his own
person, always complete and exhausting his subject,--at the same
time always in good humour; more or less ironical, thoroughly to the
purpose, honest, well-meaning, sometimes rough and vehement;--and all
this so well regulated, that the spirit, understanding, facility,
skill, taste, and character of the author cannot but be admired. In the
choice of subjects of general utility, deep insight, enlarged views,
happy treatment, profound yet cheerful humour, I know no one to whom I
can compare him but Franklin.

Such a man had an imposing effect upon us, and greatly influenced a
youthful generation, which demanded something sound, and stood ready
to appreciate it. We thought we could adapt ourselves to the form of
his exposition; but who could hope to make himself master of so rich
an entertainment, and to handle the most unmanageable subjects with so
much ease?

But this is our purest and sweetest illusion--one which we cannot
resign, however much pain it may cause us through life--that we would,
where possible, appropriate to ourselves, nay, even reproduce and
exhibit as our own, that which we prize and honour in others.


END OF THE THIRTEENTH BOOK


[1] The post, managed by the princes of Thurn and Taxis, in different
parts of Germany. An ancestor of this house first directed the post
system in Tyrol, in 1450, and Alexander Ferdinand von Thurn received,
in 1744, the office of Imperial Postmaster-General, as a fief of the
empire.--_Trans._

[2] "Die lustige person." That is to say, the permanent buffoon, like
"Kasperle" in the German puppet-shows, or "Sganarelle" in Moliere's
broad comedies.--_Trans._

[3] The peasant war, answering to the _Jaquerie_ in France.--_Trans._

[4] _Anglicé_: Make hay when the sun shines.--_Trans._

[5] It is a German peculiarity to apply the word "Schwager"
(brother-in-law) to a position.--_Trans._

[6] "Halbheit," "Halfness"--if there were such a word--would be the
proper expression.--_Trans._

[7] "Nathan the wise," in Lessing's play, founded on Boccacio's tale of
the rings.--_Trans._



FOURTEENTH BOOK.


With the movement which was spreading among the public, now arose
another of greater importance perhaps to the author, as it took place
in his immediate circle.

His early friends who had read, in manuscript, those poetical
compositions which were now creating so much sensation, and therefore
regarded them almost as their own, gloried in a success which they had
boldly enough predicted. This number was augmented by new adherents,
especially by such as felt conscious of a creative power in themselves,
or were desirous of calling one forth and cultivating it.

Among the former, Lenz was the most active and he deported himself
strangely enough. I have already sketched the outward appearance of
this remarkable mortal, and have touched affectionately on his talent
for humor. I will now speak of his character, in its results rather
than descriptively, because it would be impossible to follow him
through the mazy course of his life, and to transfer to these pages a
full exhibition of his peculiarities.

Generally known is that self-torture which in the lack of all outward
grievances, had now become fashionable, and which disturbed the very
best minds. That which gives but a transient pain to ordinary men
who never themselves meditate on that which they seek to banish from
their minds, was, by the better order, acutely observed, regarded,
and recorded in books, letters, and diaries. But now men united
the strictest moral requisitions on themselves and others with an
excessive negligence in action; and vague notions arising from
this half-self-knowledge misled them into the strangest habits and
out-of-the-way practices. But this painful work of self-contemplation
was justified by the rising empirical psychology which, while it was
not exactly willing to pronounce everything that produces inward
disquiet to be wicked and objectionable, still could not give it
an unconditional approval, and thus was originated an eternal and
inappeasable contest. In carrying on, and sustaining this conflict,
Lenz surpassed all the other idlers and dabblers who were occupied in
mining into their own souls, and thus he suffered from the universal
tendency of the times, which was said to have been let loose by
Werther; but a personal peculiarity distinguished him from all the
rest. While they were undeniably frank and honest creatures, he had
a decided inclination to intrigue, and, indeed, to intrigue for its
own sake, without having in view any special object, any reasonable,
attainable, personal object. On the contrary, it was always his custom
to propose to himself something whimsical, which served, for that very
reason, to keep him constantly occupied. In this way all his life long
he was an imposter in his imagination; his love, as well as his hate,
was imaginary; he dealt with his thoughts and feelings in a wilful
manner, so as always to have something to do. He endeavoured to give
reality to his sympathies and antipathies by the most perverse means,
and always himself destroyed his own work. Thus he never benefited any
one whom he loved, and never injured any one whom he hated. In general
he seemed to sin only to punish himself, and to intrigue for no purpose
but to graft a new fable upon an old one.

His talent, in which tenderness, facility, and subtlety rivalled each
other, proceeded from a real depth, from an inexhaustible creative
power, but was thoroughly morbid with all its beauty. Such qualities
are precisely the most difficult to judge. It is impossible to overlook
great features in his works--a lovely tenderness steals along through
pieces of caricature so odd and so silly that they can hardly be
pardoned, even in a humor so thorough and unassuming, and such a
genuine comic talent. His days were made up of mere nothings, to which
his nimble fancy could ever give a meaning, and he was the better able
to squander hours away, since, with a happy memory, the time which he
did employ in reading, was always fruitful, and enriched his original
mode of thought with various materials.

[Side-note: Lenz.]

He had been sent to Strasburg with some Livonian gentlemen, and a more
unfortunate choice of a Mentor could not have been made. The elder
baron went back for a time to his native country, and left behind him a
lady to whom he was tenderly attached. In order to keep at a distance
the second brother, who was paying court to the same lady, as well as
other lovers, and to preserve the precious heart for his absent friend,
Lenz determined either to feign that he had fallen in love with the
beauty, or if you please, actually to do so. He carried through this
plan with the most obstinate adherence to the ideal he had formed of
her, without being aware that he, as well as the others, only served
her for jest and pastime. So much the better for him! For him, too,
it was nothing but a game which could only be kept up by her meeting
him in the same spirit, now attracting him, now repelling him, now
encouraging him, and now slighting him. We may be sure that if he had
become aware of the way the affair sometimes went on, he would, with
great delight, have congratulated himself on the discovery.

As for the rest he, like his pupils, lived mostly with officers of the
garrison, and thus the strange notions he afterwards brought out in
his comedy _Die Soldaten_ (The Soldiers) probably originated. At any
rate, this early acquaintance with military men had on him the peculiar
effect, that he forthwith fancied himself a great judge of military
matters. And yet from time to time he really studied the subject in
detail with such effect, that some years afterward he prepared a long
memorial to the French Minister of War, from which he promised himself
the best results. The faults of the department were tolerably well
pointed out, but on the other hand, the remedies were ridiculous and
impracticable. However, he cherished a conviction that he should by
this means gain great influence at court, and was anything but grateful
to those of his friends who, partly by reasoning, and partly by active
opposition, compelled him to suppress, and afterwards to bum, this
fantastic work, after it had been fair-copied, put under cover with a
letter, and formally addressed.

First of all by word of mouth, and afterwards by letter, he had
confided to me all the mazes of his tortuous movements with regard to
the lady above mentioned. The poetry which he could infuse into the
commonest incidents often astonished me, so that I urged him to employ
his talents in turning the essence of this long-winded adventure to
account, and to make a little romance out of it. But that was not in
his line; he could only succeed when he poured himself out for ever
upon details, and span an endless thread without any purpose. Perhaps
it will be possible at a future time, to deduce from these premises
some account of his life up to tho time that he became a lunatic. At
present I confine myself to what is immediately connected with the
subject in hand.

Hardly had Götz von Berlichingen appeared when Lenz sent me a prolix
essay written on small draught paper, such as he commonly used, without
leaving the least margin, either at the top, the bottom, or the sides.
It was entitled, _Ueber unsere Ehe_, (On our Marriage,) and were it
still in existence, might enlighten us much more now than it then did
me, when I was as yet in the dark as to him and his character. The
leading purpose of this long manuscript was to compare my talent with
his own: now he seemed to make himself inferior to me, now to represent
himself as my equal; but it was all done with such humorous and neat
turns of expression that I gladly received the view he intended to
convey, and all the more so as I did, in fact, rate very high the
gifts he possessed, and was always urging him to concentrate himself
out of his aimless rambling, and to use his natural capacities with
some artistical control. I replied in the most friendly way to this
confidential communication, and as he had encouraged the greatest
intimacy between us, (as the whimsical title indicates,) from that
time forward I made known to him everything I had either finished or
designed. In return he successively sent me his manuscripts: _Der
Hofmeister_, (Private Tutor.) _Der neue Menoza_, (The New Menoza,)
_Die Soldaten_, (The Soldiers,) the imitations of Plautus, and the
translation from the English which I have before spoken of as forming
the supplement to his remarks on the theatre.

While reading the latter, I was somewhat struck to find him in a
laconic preface speaking in such a way as to convey the idea that this
essay, which contained a vehement attack upon the regular theatre, had,
many years before, been read to a society of the friends of literature
at a time, in short, when Götz was not yet written. That there should
have been among Lenz's acquaintances at Strasburg a literary circle of
which I was ignorant seemed somewhat problematical; however I let it
pass, and soon procured publishers for this and his other writings,
without having the least suspicion that he had selected me as the chief
object of his fanciful hatred, and as the mark of an odd and whimsical
persecution.

In passing, I will, for the sake of the sequel, just mention a good
fellow, who, though of no extraordinary gifts, was yet one of our
number. He was called Wagner, and was first a member of our Strasburg
society and then of that at Frankfort--a man not without spirit,
talent, and education. He appeared to be a striving sort of person,
and was therefore welcome. He, too, attached himself to me, and as
I made no secret of my plans, I shewed to him as well as others my
sketch of the Faust, especially the catastrophe of Gretchen. He caught
up the idea and used it for a tragedy, _Die Kindesmörderin_, (The
Infanticide.) It was the first time that any one had stolen from me
any of my plans. It vexed me, though I bore him no ill will on that
account. Since then I have often enough suffered such robberies and
anticipations of my thoughts, and with my dilatoriness and habit
of gossipping about the many things that I was ever planning and
imagining, I had no right to complain.

[Side-note: Klinger.]

If on account of the great effect which contrasts produce, orators
and poets gladly make use of them even at the expense of seeking them
out and bringing them from a distance, it must be the more agreeable
to the present writer that such a decided contrast presents itself,
in his speaking of Klinger after Lenz. They were contemporaries, and
in youth labored together. But Lenz, as a transient meteor, passed
but for a moment over the horizon of German literature, and suddenly
vanished without leaving any trace behind. Klinger, on the other hand,
has maintained his position up to the present time as an author of
influence, and an active man of business. Of him I will now speak, as
far as it is necessary, without following any farther a comparison,
which suggests itself; for it has not been in secret that he has
accomplished so much and exercised so great an influence, but both his
works and his influence are still remembered, far and near, and are
highly esteemed and appreciated.

Klinger's exterior, for I always like best to begin with this, was very
prepossessing. Nature had given him a tall, slender, well-built form,
and regular features. He was careful of his appearance, always dressed
neatly, and might justly have passed for the smartest member of our
little society. His manners were neither forward nor repulsive, and
when not agitated by an inward storm, mild and gentle.

In girls, we love what they are, but in young men what they promise to
be, and thus I was Klinger's friend as soon as I made his acquaintance.
He recommended himself by a pure good nature, and an unmistakeable
decision of character won him confidence. From youth upward, everything
had tended to incline him to seriousness. Together with a beautiful and
excellent sister, he had to provide for a mother, who in her widowhood
had need of such children for her support. He had made himself
everything that he was, so that no one could find fault with a trait of
proud independence which was apparent in his bearing. Strong natural
talents, such as are common to all well-endowed men, a facile power
of apprehension, an excellent memory, and great fluency of speech, he
possessed in a high degree; but he appeared to regard all these as
of less value than the firmness and perseverance which were likewise
innate with him, and which circumstances had abundantly strengthened.

To a young man of such a character, the works of Rousseau were
especially attractive. _Emile_ was his chief text-book, and its
sentiments, as they had an universal influence over the cultivated
world, were peculiarly fruitful with him, and influenced him more
than others. For he too was a child of nature,--he too had worked
his way upwards. What others had been compelled to cast away, he had
never possessed; relations of society from which they would have
to emancipate themselves, had never fettered him. Thus might he be
regarded as one of the purest disciples of that gospel of nature, and
in view of his own persevering efforts and his conduct as a man and
son, he might well exclaim, "All is good as it comes from the hands
of nature!" But the conclusion, "All is corrupted in the hands of
man!" was also forced upon him by adverse experience. It was not with
himself that he had to struggle, but beyond and out of himself with the
conventional world, from whose fetters the Citizen of Geneva designed
to set us free. And as from the circumstances of his youth the struggle
he had to undergo had often been difficult and painful, he had been
driven back upon himself too violently to attain a thoroughly serene
and joyous development. On the contrary, as he had had to force his way
against an opposing world, a trait of bitterness had crept into his
character, which he afterwards in some degree fed and cherished, but
for the most part strove against and conquered.

[Side-note: Klinger.]

His works, as far as I am able to recall them, bespeak a strong
understanding, an upright mind, an active imagination, a ready
perception of the varieties of human nature, and a characteristic
imitation of generic differences. His girls and boys are open and
amiable, his youths ardent, his men plain and intelligent, the
personages whom he paints in an unfavorable light are not overdrawn;
he is not wanting in cheerfulness and good humour, in wit and happy
notions; allegories and symbols are at his command; he can entertain
and please us, and the enjoyment would be still purer if he did not
here and there mar both for himself and us, his gay, pointed jesting by
a touch of bitterness. Yet this it is which makes him what he is. The
modes of living and of writing become as varied as they are, from the
fact that every one wavers theoretically between knowledge and error,
and practically between creation and destruction.

Klinger should be classed with those who have formed themselves for the
world, out of themselves, out of their own souls and understandings.
Because this takes place in and among a greater mass, and because
among themselves they use with power and effect, an intelligible
language flowing out of universal nature and popular peculiarities,
such men always cherish a warm hostility to all forms of the schools,
especially if these forms, separated from their living origin, have
degenerated into phrases, and have thus lost altogether their first,
fresh significance. Such men almost invariably declare war against new
opinions, views, and systems, as well as against new events and rising
men of importance who announce or produce great changes. They are
however not so much to blame on this account; their opposition is not
unnatural when they see all that which they are indebted to for their
own existence and culture menaced with ruin and in great danger.

In an energetic character this adherence to its own views becomes the
more worthy of respect when it has been maintained throughout a life
in the world and in business, and when a mode of dealing with current
events, which to many might seem rough and arbitrary, being employed at
the right time, has led surely to the desired end. This was the case
with Klinger; without pliability (which was never the virtue of the
born citizen of the empire,[1]) he had nevertheless risen, steadily,
and honorably, to posts of great importance, had managed to maintain
his position, and as he advanced in the approbation and favor of his
highest patrons, never forgot his old friends, or the path he had
left behind. Indeed, through all degrees of absence and separation,
he laboured pertinaciously to preserve the most complete constancy
of remembrance, and it certainly deserves to be remarked that in his
coat of arms though adorned by the badges of several orders, he, like
another Willigis, did not disdain to perpetuate the tokens of his early
life.

[Side-note: Lavater.]

It was not long before I formed a connection with Lavater. Passages
of my "Letter of a Pastor to his Colleagues" had greatly struck
him, for much of it agreed perfectly with his own views. With his
never-tiring activity our correspondence soon became lively. At the
time it commenced he was making preparations for his larger work on
Physiognomy,--the introduction to which had already been laid before
the public. He called on all the world to send him drawings and
outlines, and especially representations of Christ; and, although I
could do as good as nothing in this way, he nevertheless insisted on
my sending him a sketch of the Saviour such as I imagined him to look.
Such demands for the impossible gave occasion for jests of many kinds,
for I had no other way of defending myself against his peculiarities
but by bringing forward my own.

The number of those who had no faith in Physiognomy, or, at least,
regarded it as uncertain and deceptive was very great; and several who
had a liking for Lavater felt a desire to try him, and, if possible,
to play him a trick. He had ordered of a painter in Frankfort, who
was not without talent, the profiles of several well known persons.
Lavater's agent ventured upon the jest of sending Bahrdt's portrait
as mine, which soon brought back a merry but thundering epistle, full
of all kinds of expletives and asseverations that this was not my
picture,--together with everything that on such an occasion Lavater
would naturally have to say in confirmation of the doctrine of
Physiognomy. My true likeness, which was sent afterwards, he allowed to
pass more readily, but even here the opposition into which he fell both
with painters and with individuals showed itself at once. The former
could never work for him faithfully and sufficiently; the latter,
whatever excellences they might have, came always too far short of the
idea which he entertained of humanity and of men to prevent his being
somewhat repelled by the special characteristics which constitute the
personality of the individual.

The conception of Humanity which had been formed in himself and in his
own humanity, was so completely akin to the living image of Christ
which he cherished within him, that it was impossible for him to
understand how a man could live and breathe without at the same time
being a Christian. My own relation to the Christian religion lay merely
in my sense and feeling, and I had not the slightest notion of that
physical affinity to which Lavater inclined. I was, therefore, vexed by
the importunity, with which a man so full of mind and heart, attacked
me, as well as Mendelssohn and others, maintaining that every one must
either become a Christian with him, a Christian of his sort, or else
that one must bring him over to one's own way of thinking, and convince
him of precisely that in which one had found peace. This demand, so
directly opposed to that liberal spirit of the world, to which I was
more and more tending, did not have the best effect upon me. All
unsuccessful attempts at conversion leave him who has been selected for
a proselyte stubborn and obdurate, and this was especially the case
with me when Lavater at last came out with the hard dilemma--"Either
Christian or Atheist!" Upon this I declared that if he would not leave
me my own Christianity as I had hitherto cherished it, I could readily
decide for Atheism, particularly as I saw that nobody knew precisely
what either meant.

This correspondence, vehement as it was, did not disturb the good
terms we were on. Lavater had an incredible patience, pertinacity, and
endurance; he was confident in his theory, and, with his determined
plan to propagate his convictions in the world, he was willing by
waiting and mildness to effect what he could not accomplish by force.
In short, he belonged to the few fortunate men whose outward vocation
perfectly harmonizes with the inner one, and whose earliest culture
coinciding in all points with their subsequent pursuits, gives a
natural development to their faculties. Born with the most delicate
moral susceptibilities, he had chosen for himself the clerical
profession. He received the necessary instruction, and displayed
various talents, but without inclining to that degree of culture
which is called learned. He also, though born so long before, had,
like ourselves, been caught by the spirit of Freedom and Nature which
belonged to the time, and which whispered flatteringly in every ear,
"You have materials and solid power enough within yourself, without
much outward aid; all depends upon your developing them properly." The
obligation of a clergyman to work upon men morally, in the ordinary
sense, and religiously in the higher sense, fully coincided with his
mental tendencies. His marked impulse, even as a youth, was to impart
to others, and to excite in them, his own just and pious sentiments,
and his favorite occupation was the observation of himself and of
his fellow-men. The former was facilitated, if not forced upon him,
by an internal sensitiveness; the latter by a keen glance, which
could quickly read the outward expression. Still, he was not born for
contemplation; properly speaking, the gift of conveying his ideas
to others was not his. He felt himself rather, with all his powers,
impelled to activity, to action; and I have never known any one who
was more unceasingly active than Lavater. But because our inward
moral nature is incorporated in outward conditions, whether we belong
to a family, a class, a guild, a city, or a state, he was obliged,
in his desire to influence others, to come into contact with all
these external things, and to set them in motion. Hence arose many
a collision, many an entanglement, especially as the commonwealth
of which he was by birth a member enjoyed, under the most precise
and accurately-defined limits, an admirable hereditary freedom. The
republican from his boyhood is accustomed himself to think and to
converse on public affairs. In the first bloom of his life the youth
sees the period approaching when, as a member of a free corporation, he
will have a vote to give or to withhold. If he wishes to form a just
and independent judgment, he must, before all things, convince himself
of the worth of his fellow citizens; he must learn to know them; he
must inquire into their sentiments and their capacities; and thus, in
aiming to read others, he becomes intimate with his own bosom.

[Side-note: Lavater.]

Under such circumstances Lavater was early trained, and this business
of life seems to have occupied him more than the study of languages and
the analytic criticism, which is not only allied to that study, but is
its foundation as well as its aim. In later years, when his attainments
and his views had reached a boundless comprehensiveness, he frequently
said, both in jest and in seriousness, that he was not a learned man.
It is precisely to this want of deep and solid learning, that we must
ascribe the fact that he adhered to the letter of the Bible, and even
to the translation, and found in it nourishment, and assistance enough
for all that he sought and designed.

Very soon, however, this circle of action in a corporation or guild,
with its slow movement, became too narrow for the quick nature of
its occupant. For a youth to be upright is not difficult, and a pure
conscience revolts at the wrong of which it is still innocent. The
oppressions of a bailiff (_Landvogt_) lay plain before the eyes of the
citizens, but it was by no means easy to bring them to justice. Lavater
having associated a friend with himself, anonymously threatened the
guilty bailiff. The matter became notorious, and an investigation was
rendered necessary. The criminal was punished, but the prompters of
this act of justice were blamed if not abused. In a well ordered state
even the right must not be brought about in a wrong way.

On a tour which Lavater now made through Germany, he came into contact
with educated and right-thinking men; but that served only to confirm
his previous thoughts and convictions, and on his return home he worked
from his own resources with greater freedom than ever. A noble and good
man, he was conscious within himself of a lofty conception of humanity,
and whatever in experience contradicts such a conception,--all
the undeniable defects which remove every one from perfection, he
reconciled by his idea of the Divinity which in the midst of ages came
down into human nature in order completely to restore its earlier image.

So much by way of preface on the tendencies of this eminent man; and
now before all things, for a bright picture of our meeting and personal
intercourse. Our correspondence had not long been carried on, when he
announced to me and to others, that in a voyage up the Rhine which he
was about to undertake, he would soon visit Frankfort. Immediately
there arose a great excitement in our world; all were curious to see
so remarkable a person; many hoped to profit by him in the way of
moral and religious culture; the sceptics prepared to distinguish
themselves by grave objections; the conceited felt sure of entangling
and confounding him by arguments in which they had strengthened
themselves,--in short, there was everything, there was all the favor
and disfavor, which awaits a distinguished man who intends to meddle
with this motley world.

Our first meeting was hearty; we embraced each other in the most
friendly way, and I found him just like what I had seen in many
portraits of him. I saw living and active before me, an individual
quite unique, and distinguished in a way that no one had seen before or
will see again. Lavater, on the contrary, at the first moment, betrayed
by some peculiar exclamations, that I was not what he had expected.
Hereupon, I assured him, with the realism which had been born in me,
and which I had cultivated, that as it had pleased God and nature
to make me in that fashion we must rest content with it. The most
important of the points on which in our letters we had been far from
agreeing, became at once subjects of conversation, but we had not time
to discuss them thoroughly, and something occurred to me that I had
never before experienced.

The rest of us whenever we wish to speak of affairs of the soul and
of the heart, were wont to withdraw from the crowd, and even from all
society, because in the many modes of thinking, and the different
degrees of culture among men, it is difficult to be on an understanding
even with a few. But Lavater was of a wholly different turn; he liked
to extend his influence as far as possible, and was not at ease except
in a crowd, for the instruction and entertainment of which he possessed
an especial talent, based on his great skill in physiognomy. He had
a wonderful facility of discriminating persons and minds, by which
he quickly understood the mental state of all around him. Whenever
therefore this judgment of men was met by a sincere confession, a
true-hearted inquiry, he was able, from the abundance of his internal
and external experience, to satisfy every one with an appropriate
answer. The deep tenderness of his look, the marked sweetness of his
lips, and even the honest Swiss dialect which was heard through his
High German, with many other things that distinguished him, immediately
placed all whom he addressed quite at their ease. Even the slight stoop
in his carriage, together with his rather hollow chest, contributed not
a little to balance in the eyes of the remainder of the company the
weight of his commanding presence. Towards presumption and arrogance he
knew how to demean himself with calmness and address, for while seeming
to yield he would suddenly bring forward, like a diamond-shield, some
grand view, of which his narrow-minded opponent would never have
thought, and at the same time he would so agreeably moderate the light
which flowed from it, that such men felt themselves instructed and
convinced,--so long at least as they were in his presence. Perhaps
with many the impression continued to operate long afterwards, for
even conceited men are also kindly; it is only necessary by gentle
influences to soften the hard shell which encloses the fruitful kernel.

What caused him the greatest pain was the presence of persons whose
outward ugliness must irrevocably stamp them decided enemies of his
theory as to the significance of forms. They commonly employed a
considerable amount of common sense and other gifts and talents, in
vehement hostility and paltry doubts, to weaken a doctrine which
appeared offensive to their self-love; for it was not easy to find any
one so magnanimous as Socrates, who interpreted his faun-like exterior
in favour of an acquired morality. To Lavater the hardness, the
obduracy of such antagonists was horrible, and his opposition was not
free from passion; just as the smelting fire must attack the resisting
ore as something troublesome and hostile.

In such a case a confidential conversation, such as might appeal
to our own cases and experience, was not to be thought of; however
I was much instructed by observing the manner in which he treated
men,--instructed, I say, not improved by it, for my position was wholly
different from his. He that works morally loses none of his efforts,
for there comes from them much more fruit than the parable of the Sower
too modestly represents. But he whose labours are artistic, fails
utterly in every work that is not recognised as a work of art. From
this it may be judged how impatient my dear sympathizing readers were
accustomed to make me, and for what reasons I had such a great dislike
to come to an understanding with them. I now felt but too vividly
the difference between the effectiveness of my labors and those of
Lavater. His prevailed, while he was present, mine, when I was absent.
Every one who at a distance was dissatisfied with him became his friend
when they met, and every one who, judging by my work, considered me
amiable, found himself greatly deceived when he came in contract with a
man of coldness and reserve.

Merck, who had just come over from Darmstadt, played the part of
Mephistopheles, especially ridiculing the importunities of the women.
As some of these were closely examining the apartments which had
been set apart for the prophet, and, above all, his bed-chamber, the
wag said that "the pious souls wished to see where they had laid the
Lord." Nevertheless he, as well as the others, was forced to let
himself be exorcised. Lips, who accompanied Lavater, drew his profile
as completely and successfully as he did those of other men, both
important and unimportant, who were to be heaped together in the great
work on Physiognomy.

For myself, Lavater's society was highly influential and instructive,
for his pressing incitements to action set my calm, artistic,
contemplative nature into motion, not indeed to any advantage at the
moment, because the circumstances did but increase the distraction
which had already laid hold of me. Still, so many things were talked
about between us, as to give rise to the most earnest desire on my part
to prolong the discussion. Accordingly I determined to accompany him if
he went to Ems, so that, shut up in the carriage and separated from the
world, we might freely go over those subjects which lay nearest to both
our hearts.

Meanwhile the conversations between Lavater and Fraülein Yon
Klettenberg were to me exceedingly interesting and profitable. Here two
decided Christians stood in contrast to each other, and it was quite
plain how the same belief may take a different shape according to the
sentiments of different persons. In those tolerant times it was often
enough repeated that every man had his own religion and his own mode
of worship. Although I did not maintain this exactly, I could, in the
present case, perceive that men and women need a different Saviour.
Fraülein Von Klettenberg looked towards hers as to a lover to whom one
yields oneself without reserve, concentrating all joy and hope on him
alone, and without doubt or hesitation confiding to him the destiny
of life. Lavater, on the other hand, treated his as a friend, to be
imitated lovingly and without envy, whose merits he recognised and
valued highly, and whom, for that very reason, he strove to copy and
even to equal. What a difference between these two tendencies, which
in general exhibit the spiritual necessities of the two sexes! Hence
we may perhaps explain the fact that men of more delicate feeling have
so often turned to the Mother of God as a paragon of female beauty
and virtue, and like Sannazaro, have dedicated to her their lives and
talents, occasionally condescending to play with the Divine Infant.

How my two friends stood to each other, and how they felt towards each
other, I gathered not only from conversations at which I was present,
but also from revelations which both made to me in private. I could
not agree entirely with either; for my Christ had also taken a form
of his own, in accordance with my views. Because they would not allow
mine to pass at all, I teased them with all sorts of paradoxes and
exaggerations, and, when they got impatient, left them with a jest.

[Side-note: Faith and Knowledge.]

The contest between knowledge and faith was not yet the order of the
day, but the two words and the ideas connected with them occasionally
came forward, and the true haters of the world maintained that one was
as little to be relied on as the other. Accordingly I took pleasure
in declaring in favour of both, though without being able to gain the
assent of my friends. In Faith, I said, everything depends on the
fact of believing; what is believed is perfectly indifferent. Faith
is a profound sense of security for the present and future, and this
assurance springs from confidence in an immense, all-powerful, and
inscrutable Being. The firmness of this confidence is the one grand
point; but what we think of this Being depends on our other faculties,
or even on circumstances, and is wholly indifferent. Faith is a holy
vessel into which every one stands ready to pour his feelings, his
understanding, his imagination as perfectly as he can. With Knowledge
it is directly the opposite. There the point is not whether we know,
but what we know, how much we know, and how well we know it. Hence it
comes that men may dispute about knowledge because it can be corrected,
widened, and contracted. Knowledge begins with the particular, is
endless and formless, can never be all comprehended, or at least but
dreamily, and thus remains exactly the opposite of Faith.

Half truths of this kind, and the errors which arise from them may,
when poetically exhibited, be exciting and entertaining, but in life
they disturb and confuse conversation. For that reason I was glad to
leave Lavater alone with all those who wished to be edified by him and
through him, a deprivation for which I found myself fully compensated
by the journey we made together to Ems. Beautiful summer weather
attended us, and Lavater was gay and most amiable. For though of a
religious and moral turn, he was by no means narrow-minded, and was
not unmoved when by the events of life those around him were excited
to cheerfulness and gaiety. He was sympathizing, spirited, witty, and
liked the same qualities in others, provided that they were kept within
the bounds which his delicate sense of propriety prescribed. If any
one ventured further he used to clap him on the shoulder, and by a
hearty "_Bisch guet!_" would call the rash man back to good manners.
This journey afforded me instruction and inspiration of many kinds,
which, however, contributed to a knowledge of his character rather than
to the government and culture of my own. At Ems I saw him once again,
surrounded by society of every sort, and I went back to Frankfort,
because my little affairs were in such a state that I could scarcely
absent myself from them at all.

[Side-note: Basedow.]

But I was not destined to be restored so speedily to repose. BASEDOW
now came in to attract me, and touch me on another side. A more decided
contrast could not be found than that between these two men. A single
glance at Basedow showed the difference. Lavater's features displayed
themselves with openness to the observer, but those of Basedow were
crowded together and as it were drawn inward. Lavater's eye, beneath a
very wide eyelid, was clear and expressive of piety; Basedow's was deep
in his head, small, black, sharp, gleaming from under bristly brows,
while on the contrary, Lavater's frontal bone was edged with two arches
of the softest brown hair. Basedow's strong, rough voice, quick, sharp
expressions, a kind of sarcastic laugh, a rapid change of subjects in
conversation, with other peculiarities, were all the opposite of the
qualities and manners by which Lavater had spoiled us. Basedow was also
much sought after in Frankfort, and his great talents were admired,
but he was not the man either to edify souls or to lead them. His sole
office was to give a better cultivation to the wide field he had
marked out for himself, so that Humanity might afterwards take up its
dwelling in it with greater ease and accordance with nature; but to
this end he hastened even too directly.

I could not altogether acquiesce in his plans, or even get a clear
understanding of his views. I was of course pleased with his desire
of making all instruction living and natural; his wish, too, that the
ancient languages should be practised on present objects, appeared to
me laudable, and I gladly acknowledged all that in his project, tended
to the promotion of activity and a fresher view of the world. But I
was displeased that the illustrations of his elementary work, were
even more distracting than its subjects, whereas in the actual world,
possible things alone stand together, and for that reason, in spite of
all variety and apparent confusion, the world has still a regularity in
all its parts. Basedow's elementary work, on the contrary, sunders it
completely, inasmuch as things which in the world never are combined,
are here put together on account of the association of ideas; and
consequently, the book is without even those palpable methodical
advantages which we must acknowledge in the similar work of Amos
Comenius.

But the conduct of Basedow was much more strange and difficult to
comprehend than his doctrine. The purpose of his journey was, by
personal influence, to interest the public in his philanthropic
enterprise, and, indeed, to open not only hearts but purses. He had the
power of speaking grandly and convincingly of his scheme, and every
one willingly conceded what he asserted. But in a most inexplicable
way he pained the feelings of the very men whose assistance he wished
to gain; nay, he outraged them unnecessarily, through his inability
to keep back his opinions and fancies on religious subjects. In this
respect, too, Basedow appeared the very opposite of Lavater. While
the latter received the Bible literally, and with its whole contents,
as being word for word in force, and applicable even at the present
day, the former had the most unquiet itching to renovate everything,
and to remodel both the doctrines and the ceremonies of the church
in conformity with some odd notions of his own. Most imprudently he
showed no mercy to those conceptions which come not immediately from
the Bible, but from its interpretation;--all those expressions,
technical philosophical terms, or sensible figures, with which Councils
and Fathers of the church had sought to explain the inexpressible, or
to confute heretics. In a harsh and unwarrantable way, and before all
alike, he declared himself the sworn enemy of the Trinity, and would
never desist from arguing against this universally admitted mystery.
I, too, had to suffer a good deal from this kind of entertainment in
private conversation, and was compelled again and again to listen
to his tirades about the _Hypostasis_ and _Ousia_, as well as the
_Prosopon._ To meet them all I had recourse to the weapons of paradox,
and soaring even above the flight of his opinions, ventured to oppose
his rash assertions with something rasher of my own. This gave a new
excitement to my mind, and as Basedow was much more extensively read,
and had more skill in the fencing tricks of disputation than a follower
of nature like myself, I had always to exert myself the more, the more
important were the points which were discussed between us.

Such a splendid opportunity to exercise, if not to enlighten my mind, I
could not allow to pass away in a hurry. I prevailed on my father and
friends to manage my most pressing affairs, and now set off again from
Frankfort in the company of Basedow. But what a difference did I feel
when I recalled the gentle spirit which breathed from Lavater! Pure
himself, he created around him a pure circle. At his side one became
like a maiden, for fear of presenting before him anything repulsive.
Basedow, on the contrary, being altogether absorbed in himself, could
not pay any attention to his external appearance. His ceaseless smoking
of wretched tobacco was of itself extremely disagreeable, especially as
his pipe was no sooner out, than he brought forth a dirtily prepared
kind of tinder, which took fire quickly, but had a most horrid stench,
and every time poisoned the air insufferably with the first whiff. I
called this preparation "The Basedovian Smellfungus," (Stink-schwamm)
and declared that it ought to be introduced into Natural History under
this name. This greatly amused him, and to my disgust he minutely
explained the hated preparation, taking a malicious pleasure in my
aversion from it. It was one of the deeply rooted, disagreeable
peculiarities of this admirably gifted man that he was fond of
teasing, and would sting the most dispassionate persons. He could never
see any one quiet, but he provoked him with mocking irony, in a hoarse
voice, or put him to confusion by an unexpected question, and laughed
bitterly when he had gained his end; yet he was pleased when the object
of his jests was quick enough to collect himself, and gave him a retort.

[Side-note: Basedow.]

How much greater was now my longing for Lavater. He, too, seemed to
be rejoiced when he saw me again, and confided to me much that he
had learned, especially in reference to the various characters of
his fellow-guests, among whom he had already succeeded in making
many friends and disciples. For my part I found here several old
acquaintances, and in those whom I had not seen for many years, I began
to notice what in youth long remains concealed from us, namely, that
men grow old and women change. The company became more numerous every
day. There was no end to the dancing, and, as in the two principal
bath-houses, people came into pretty close contact, the familiarity
led to many a practical joke. Once I disguised myself as a village
clergyman, while an intimate friend took the character of his wife; by
our excessive and troublesome politeness, we were tolerably amusing to
the elegant society, and so put every one into good humor. Of serenades
at evening, midnight and morning, there was no lack, and we juniors
enjoyed but little sleep.

To make up for these dissipations, I always passed a part of the night
with Basedow. He never went to bed, but dictated without cessation.
Occasionally he cast himself on the couch and slumbered, while his
amanuensis sat quietly, pen in hand, ready to continue his work when
the half awakened author should once again give free course to his
thoughts. All this took place in a close confined chamber, filled
with the fumes of tobacco and the odious tinder. As often as I was
disengaged from a dance, I hastened up to Basedow, who was ready at
once to speak and dispute on any question; and when after a time, I
hurried again to the ball-room, before I had closed the door behind me,
he would resume the thread of his essay as composedly as if he hat been
engaged with nothing else.

We also made together many excursions into the neighborhood, visiting
the châteaux, especially those of noble ladies, who were everywhere
more inclined than the men, to receive anything that made a pretence
to intellect and talent. At Nassau, at the house of Frau von Stein, a
most estimable lady, who enjoyed universal respect, we found a large
company. Frau von Laroche was likewise present, and there was no lack
of young ladies and children. Here Lavater was doomed to be put to many
a physiognomical temptation, which consisted mainly in our seeking
to palm upon him the accidents of cultivation as original forms, but
his eye was too sure to be deceived. I, too, was called on as much as
ever to maintain the truth of the Sorrows of Werther, and to name the
residence of Charlotte, a desire which I declined to gratify, not in
the politest manner. On the other hand I collected the children around
me in order to tell them very wonderful stories, all about well known
things, in which I had the great advantage, that no member of my circle
of hearers could ask me with any importunity what part was truth and
what fiction.

[Side-note: Basedow and Lavater.]

Basedow affirmed that the only thing necessary was a better education
of youth, and to promote this end he called upon the higher and wealthy
classes for considerable contributions. But hardly had his reasoning
and his impassioned eloquence excited, not to say, won to his purpose,
the sympathy of his auditors, when the evil anti-trinitarian spirit
came upon him, so that without the least sense of where he was, he
broke forth into the strangest discourses, which in his own opinion
were highly religious, but according to the convictions of those around
him highly blasphemous. All sought a remedy for this evil; Lavater, by
gentle seriousness, I, by jests, leading off from the subject, and the
ladies by amusing walks, but harmony could not be restored. A Christian
conversation, such as had been expected from the presence of Lavater, a
discourse on education, such as had been anticipated from Basedow, and
a sentimental one, for which it was thought I should be ready--all were
at once disturbed and destroyed. On our return home, Lavater reproached
him, but I punished him in a humorous way. The weather was warm, and
the tobacco-smoke had perhaps contributed to the dryness of Basedow's
palate; he was dying for a glass of beer, and seeing a tavern at a
distance on the road, he eagerly ordered the coachman to stop there.
But just as he was driving up to the door, I called out to him loudly
and imperiously, "Go on!" Basedow, taken by surprise, could hardly get
the contrary command out of his husky voice. I urged the coachman more
vehemently, and he obeyed me. Basedow cursed me, and was ready to fall
on me with his fists, but I replied to him with the greatest composure,
"Father, be quiet! You ought to thank me. Luckily you didn't see the
beer-sign! It was two triangles put together across each other. Now you
commonly get mad about one triangle, and if you had set eyes on two, we
should have had to get you a strait jacket." This joke threw him into
a fit of immoderate laughter, in the intervals of which he scolded and
cursed me, while Lavater exercised his patience on both the young fool
and the old one.

When in the middle of July, Lavater was preparing to depart, Basedow
thought it advantageous to join him, while I had become so accustomed
to this rare society that I could not bring myself to give it up. We
had a delightful journey down the Lahn; it was refreshing alike to
heart and senses. At the sight of an old ruined castle, I wrote the
song "_Hoch auf dem alten Thurme steht_" (High on the ancient Turret
stands), in Lips's Album, and as it was well received, I wrote, after
my evil habit, all kinds of doggrel rhymes and comicalities on the
succeeding pages, in order to destroy the impression. I rejoiced
to see the magnificent Rhine once more, and was delighted with the
astonishment of those who had never before enjoyed this splendid
spectacle. We landed at Coblentz; wherever we went, the crowd was
very great, and each of the three excited interest and curiosity.
Basedow and I seemed to strive which could behave most outrageously.
Lavater conducted himself rationally and with judgment, only he could
not conceal his favorite opinions, and thus with the best designs he
appeared very odd to all men of mediocrity.

I have preserved the memory of a strange dinner at a hotel in Coblentz,
in some doggrel rhymes, which will, perhaps, stand with all their
kindred in my New Edition. I sat between Lavater and Basedow; the first
was instructing a country parson on the mysteries of the Revelation
of St. John, and the other was in vain endeavouring to prove to an
obstinate dancing master, that baptism was an obsolete usage not
calculated for our times. As we were going on to Cologne, I wrote in an
Album--

    As though to Emmaus, on their ride
      Storming they might be seen;
    The prophets sat on either side.
      The world-child sat between.

[Side-note: The Brothers Jacobi.]

Luckily this world-child had also a side which was turned towards the
heavenly, and which was now to be moved in a way wholly peculiar.
While in Ems I had rejoiced to hear that in Cologne we should find the
brothers Jacobi, who with other eminent men had set out to meet and
show attention to our two remarkable travellers. On my part, I hoped
for forgiveness from them for sundry little improprieties which had
originated in the great love of mischief that Herder's keen humor had
excited in us. The letters and poems in which Gleim and George Jacobi
publicly rejoiced in each other, had given us opportunity for all
sorts of sport, and we had not reflected that there is just as much
self-conceit in giving pain to others when they are comfortable, as in
showing an excess of kindness to oneself or to one's friends. By this
means, a certain dissension had arisen between the Upper and Lower
Rhine, of so slight importance, however, that mediation was easy. For
this the ladies were particularly adapted. Sophia Laroche had already
given us the best idea of the noble brothers. Mademoiselle Fahlmer,
who had come to Frankfort from Düsseldorf, and who was intimate with
their circle, by the great tenderness of her sympathies, and the
uncommon cultivation of her mind, furnished an evidence of the worth
of the society in which she had grown up. She gradually put us to
shame by her patience with our harsh Upper Saxon manner, and taught us
forbearance by letting us feel that we ourselves stood in need of it.
The true-heartedness of the younger sister of the Jacobis, the gaiety
of the wife of Fritz Jacobi, turned our minds and eyes more and more
to these regions. The latter was qualified to captivate me entirely;
possessed of a correct feeling without a trace of sentimentality, and
with a lively way of speaking, she was a fine Netherlands' woman, who
without any expression of sensuality, by her robust nature called to
mind the women of Rubens. Both these ladies, in longer and shorter
visits at Frankfort, had formed the closest alliance with my sister,
and had expanded and enlivened the severe, stiff, and somewhat loveless
nature of Cornelia. Thus Düsseldorf and Pempelfort had interested our
minds and hearts, even in Frankfort.

Accordingly our first meeting in Cologne was at once frank and
confidential, for the good opinion of the ladies had not been without
its influence at home. I was not now treated, as hitherto on the
journey, as the mere misty tail of the two great comets; all around
paid me particular attention, and showed me abundant kindness, which
they also seemed inclined to receive from me in return. I was weary of
my previous follies and impertinences, behind which, in truth, I only
hid my impatience, to find during the journey so little care taken to
satisfy my heart and soul. Hence, what was within me, burst out like
a torrent, and this is perhaps the reason why I recollect so little
of individual events. The thoughts we have had, the pictures we have
seen, can be again called up before the mind and the imagination; but
the heart is not so complaisant; it will not repeat its agreeable
emotions. And least of all are we able to recall moments of enthusiasm;
they come upon us unprepared, and we yield to them unconsciously. For
this reason, others, who observe us at such moments have a better and
clearer insight into what passes within us, than we ourselves.

Religious conversations I had hitherto gently declined; to plain
questions, I had not unfrequently replied with harshness, because they
seemed to me too narrow in comparison with what I sought. When any one
wished to force upon me his sentiments and opinions of my compositions,
but especially when I was afflicted with the demands of common sense,
and people told me decidedly what I ought to have done or left undone,
I got out of all patience, and the conversation broke off, or crumbled
to pieces, so that no one went away with a particularly good opinion
of me. It would have been much more natural to make myself gentle and
friendly, but my feelings would not be schooled. They needed to be
expanded by free good will and to be moved to a surrender by sincere
sympathy. One feeling which prevailed greatly with me, and could never
find an expression odd enough for itself, was a sense of the past
and present together in one; a phenomenon which brought something
spectral into the present. It is expressed in many of my smaller and
larger works, and always has a beneficial influence in a poem, though,
whenever it began to mix itself up with actual life, it must have
appeared to every one strange, inexplicable, perhaps gloomy.

Cologne was the place where antiquity had such an incalculable effect
upon me. The ruins of the Cathedral (for an unfinished work is like one
destroyed) called up the emotions to which I had been accustomed at
Strasburg. Artistic considerations were out of the question; too much
and too little was given me; and there was no one who could help me out
of the labyrinth of what was performed and what was proposed, of the
fact and the plan, of what was built and what was only designed, as our
industrious, persevering friends nowadays are ready to do. In company
with others I did indeed admire its wonderful chapels and columns, but
when alone I always gloomily lost myself in this world-edifice, thus
checked in its creation while far from complete. Here, too, was a great
idea never realized! It would seem, indeed, as if the architecture
were there only to convince us that by many men, in a series of years,
nothing can be accomplished, and that in art and in deeds only that is
achieved which, like Minerva, springs full-grown and armed from the
head of its inventor.

At these moments which, oppressed more than they cheered my heart, I
little thought that the tenderest and fairest emotion was in store for
me near at hand. I was persuaded to visit Jabach's Dwelling, and here
all that I had been wont to form for myself in my mind came actually
and sensibly before my eyes. This family had probably long ago become
extinct, but on the ground floor which opened upon a garden, we found
everything unchanged. A pavement of brownish red tiles, of a rhomboidal
form regularly laid, carved chairs with embroidered seats and high
backs, flap-tables, metal chandeliers curiously inlaid, on heavy feet,
an immense fire-place with its appropriate utensils, everything in
harmony with those early times, and in the whole room nothing new,
nothing belonging to the present but ourselves. But what more than all
heightened and completed the emotions thus strangely excited, was a
large family picture over the fire-place. There sat the former wealthy
inhabitant of this abode surrounded by his wife and children,--there
were they in all the freshness of life, and as if of yesterday, or
rather of to-day, and yet all of them had passed away. These young,
round-cheeked children had grown old, and but for this clever likeness,
not a trace of them would have remained. How I acted, how I demeaned
myself, when overcome by these impressions I cannot say. The lowest
depths of my human affections and poetic sensibilities were laid bare
in the boundless stirring of my heart; all that was good and loving in
my soul seemed to open and break forth. In that moment without further
probation or debate, I gained for life the affection and confidence of
those eminent men.

As a result of this union of soul and intellect, in which all that
was living in each came forth upon his lips, I offered to recite my
newest and most favorite ballads. "_Der König von Thule_" (The king
of Thule,) and "_Es war ein Bube frech genug_," (There was a rascal
bold enough[2],) had a good effect, and I brought them forth with
more feeling as my poems were still bound to my heart, and as they
seldom passed my lips. For in the presence of persons, who I feared
could not sympathize with my tender sensibility, I felt restrained;
and frequently, in the midst of a recitation, I have become confused
and could not get right again. How often for that reason have I been
accused of wilfulness, and of a strange, whimsical disposition!

Although poetic composition, just then, mainly occupied me and exactly
suited my temperament, I was still no stranger to reflection on all
kinds of subjects, and Jacobi's tendency to the unfathomable, which
was so original, and so much in accordance with his nature, was most
welcome and agreeable to me. Here no controversy arose, neither a
Christian one, as with Lavater, nor a didactic one, as with Basedow.
The thoughts which Jacobi imparted to me flowed immediately from his
heart. How profoundly was I moved when in unlimited confidence, he
revealed to me even the most hidden longings of his soul! From so
amazing a combination of mental wants, passion, and ideas, I could
only gather presentiments of what might, perhaps, afterwards grow more
clear to me. Happily, I had already prepared if not fully cultivated
myself on this side, having in some degree appropriated the thoughts
and mind of an extraordinary man, and though my study of him had
been incomplete and hasty, I was yet already conscious of important
influences derived from this source. This mind, which had worked upon
me thus decisively, and which was destined to affect so deeply my whole
mode of thinking, was SPINOZA. After looking through the world in vain,
to find a means of development for my strange nature, I at last fell
upon the Ethics of this philosopher. Of what I read out of the work,
and of what I read into it, I can give no account. Enough that I found
in it a sedative for my passions, and that a free, wide view over the
sensible and moral world, seemed to open before me. But what especially
riveted me to him, was the utter disinterestedness which shone forth
in his every sentence. That wonderful sentiment, "He who truly loves
God must not desire God to love him in return," together with all the
preliminary propositions on which it rests, and all the consequences
that follow from it, filled my whole mind. To be disinterested in
everything, but the most of all in love and friendship, was my highest
desire, my maxim, my practice, so that that subsequent hasty saying
of mine, "If I love thee what is that to thee?" was spoken right
out of my heart. Moreover, it must not be forgotten here that the
closest unions are those of opposites. The all-composing calmness of
Spinoza was in striking contrast with my all-disturbing activity; his
mathematical method was the direct opposite of my poetic humour and my
way of writing, and that very precision which was thought ill-adapted
to moral subjects, made me his enthusiastic disciple, his most decided
worshipper. Mind and heart, understanding and sense, sought each other
with an eager affinity, binding together the most different natures.

[Side-note: Fritz Jacobi.]

At this time, however, all within was fermenting and seething in the
first action and reaction. Fritz Jacobi, the first whom I suffered
to look into the chaos, and whose nature was also toiling in its own
extreme depths, heartily received my confidence, responded to it, and
endeavored to lead me to his own opinions. He, too, felt an unspeakable
mental want; he, too, did not wish to have it appeased by outward aid,
but aimed at development and illumination from within. I could not
comprehend what he communicated to me of the state of his mind, so much
the less indeed, because I could form no idea as to my own. Still,
as he was far in advance of me in philosophical thought, and even in
the study of Spinoza, he endeavored to guide and enlighten my obscure
efforts. Such a purely intellectual relationship was new to me, and
excited a passionate longing for farther communion. At night, after we
had parted and retired to our chambers, I often sought him again. With
the moonlight trembling over the broad Rhine, we stood at the window,
and revelled in that full interchange of ideas which in such splendid
moments of confidence swells forth so abundantly.

Still, of the unspeakable joy of those moments I can now give no
account. Much more distinct to my mind is an excursion to the
hunting-seat of Bensberg, which, lying on the right shore of the
Rhine, commanded the most splendid prospect. What delighted me beyond
measure was the decorations of the walls by Weenix. They represented
a large open hall surrounded by columns, at the foot of these, as if
forming the plinth, lay all the animals that the chase can furnish
skilfully arranged, and over these again the eye ranged over a wide
landscape. The wonderful artist had expended his whole skill in giving
life to these lifeless creatures. In the delineation of their widely
varying coats, the bristles, hair, or feathers, with the antlers and
claws, he had equalled nature, while, in the effect produced, he had
excelled her. When we had admired these works of art sufficiently, as a
whole, we were led to reflect on the handling by which such pictures,
combining so much spirit and mechanical skill, were produced. We
could not understand how they could be created by the hands of man,
or by any of his instruments. The pencil was not sufficient; peculiar
preparations must be supposed to make such variety possible. Whether
we came close to them, or withdrew to a distance, our astonishment was
equal; the cause was as wonderful as the effect.

Our further journey up the Rhine was happy and fortunate. The widening
of the river invites the mind to expand itself likewise, and to look
into the distance. We arrived at Düsseldorf, and from thence came
to Pempelfort, a most delightful and beautiful resting-place, where
a spacious mansion, opening upon extensive and well-kept gardens,
collected together a thoughtful and refined circle. The members of the
family were numerous, and strangers, who found abundant enjoyment in so
rich and agreeable a neighbourhood were never wanting.

In the Düsseldorf gallery my predilection for the Flemish school
found plentiful nourishment. There were whole halls filled with these
vigorous, sturdy pictures, brilliant with a fulness of nature; and, if
my judgment was not enlarged, my store of knowledge was enriched and my
love for art confirmed.

The beautiful composure, contentment, and firmness, which marked
the leading character of this family circle, quickly manifested
themselves to the observant eye of the thoughtful guest, who could
not fail to perceive that a wide sphere of influences had here its
centre. The activity and opulence of the neighboring cities and
villages contributed not a little to enhance this feeling of inward
satisfaction. We visited Elberfeld, and were delighted with the busy
aspect of so many flourishing manufactories. Here we fell in again
with our friend Jung, commonly known as Stilling, who had gone even
to Coblentz to meet us; and who always had his faith in God and his
truth towards men, as his most precious attendants. Here we saw him in
his own circle, and took pleasure in the confidence reposed in him by
his fellow citizens, who, though occupied with earthly gain, did not
leave the heavenly treasures out of view. The sight of this industrious
region, was satisfactory, because its prosperity was the result of
order and neatness. In the contemplation of these things we passed
happy days.

When I returned to my friend Jacobi, I enjoyed the rapturous feeling
springing from a union of the innermost soul. We were both inspired by
the liveliest hope of an influence in common, and I urgently pressed
him to make an exhibition in some striking form or other of all that
was acting and moving within him. This was the means by which I had
escaped from many perplexities, and I hoped that it would relieve him
also. He did not object, but undertook the task with zeal, and how much
that is good, and beautiful, and consolatory, has he accomplished!
And so, at last, we parted with the happy feeling of eternal union,
and wholly without a presentiment that our labors would assume the
opposite directions, which, in the course of life, they so markedly
took.

Whatever else occurred to me on the return down the Rhine has
altogether vanished from my memory, partly because the second
impressions of natural objects are wont, in my mind, to be mingled with
the first; and partly because, with my thoughts turned inwardly, I was
endeavouring to arrange the varied experience I on myself had gained,
and to work up what had affected me. Of one important result, as it
impelled me to creative efforts, which kept me occupied for a long
time, I will now speak.

[Side-note: Intended Drama of Mahomet.]

With my lawless disposition, with a life and action so aimless and
purposeless, the observation could not long escape me that Lavater and
Basedow employed intellectual and even spiritual means for earthly
ends. It soon struck me, who spent my talents and my days on no object
whatever, that these two men, while endeavoring, to preach their
doctrines, to teach and to convince, had each in his own way, certain
views in the background--the advancement of which was, to them, of
great consequence. Lavater went to work gently and prudently, Basedow
vehemently, rudely, and even awkwardly; but both were so convinced of
the excellence of their favorite schemes and undertakings, and their
mode of prosecuting them, that so far all were compelled to look upon
them as men of sincerity, and to love and to honor them as such. In
praise of Lavater especially, it could be said that he actually had
higher objects, and, if he acted according to the wisdom of this
world, it was in the belief that the end would hallow the means. As I
observed them both, nay, indeed frankly told them my opinions and heard
theirs in return, the thought arose in me that every highly-gifted
man is called upon to diffuse whatever there is of divine within
him. In attempting this, however, he comes in contact with the rough
world, and, in order to act upon it, he must put himself on the same
level. Thus, in a great measure he compromises his high advantages,
and finally forfeits them altogether. The heavenly, the eternal, is
buried in a body of earthly designs, and hurried with it to the fate
of the transient. From this point of view I now regarded the career
of these two men, and they seemed to me, worthy both of honor and of
compassion; for I thought I could foresee that each would be compelled
to sacrifice the higher to the lower. As I pursued this reflection
to the farthest extremity, and looked beyond the limits of my narrow
experience for similar cases in history, the plan occurred to me of
taking the life of Mahomet, whom I had never been able to think an
impostor, for a dramatic exhibition of those courses which in actual
life, I was strongly convinced, invariably lead to ruin much more than
to good. I had shortly before read with great interest, and studied
the life of the Eastern Prophet, and was therefore tolerably prepared
when the thought occurred to me. The sketch approached on the whole
to the regular form to which I was again inclining, although I still
used in moderation the liberty gained for the stage, and arranged time
and place according to my own pleasure. The piece began with Mahomet
alone under the open sky, singing a hymn. In it he adores first of
all the innumerable stars as so many gods; but as the friendly star,
Gad (our Jupiter) rises, he offers to him, as the king of the stars,
exclusive adoration. Not long after the moon ascends the horizon, and
wins the eye and heart of the worshipper, who, presently refreshed and
strengthened by the dawning sun, is called upon for new praises. But
these changing phenomena, however delightful, are still unsatisfactory
and the mind feels that it must rise yet above itself. It mounts,
therefore, to God, the Only, Eternal, Infinite, to whom all these
splendid yet limited creatures owe their existence. I composed this
hymn with great delight; it is now lost, but might easily be restored
for the purpose of a cantata, and would commend itself to the musical
composer by the variety of its expression. It would, however, be
necessary to imagine it sung, according to the original plan, by
the conductor of a caravan with his family and tribe; and thus the
alternation of the voices, and the strength of the chorus, would be
provided for.

[Side-note: Intended Drama of Mahomet.]

After Mahomet has thus converted himself, he imparts these feelings
and sentiments to his friends. His wife and Ali become his disciples
without reserve. In the second act, he zealously attempts, supported
by the still more ardent Ali, to propagate this faith in the tribe.
Assent and opposition fallow the variety of character. The contest
begins, the strife becomes violent, and Mahomet is compelled to flee.
In the third act, he defeats his enemies, and making his religion the
public one, purifies the Kaaba from idols; but, as all this cannot
be done by power, he is obliged to resort to cunning. What in his
character is earthly increases and extends itself; the divine retires
and is obscured. In the fourth act, Mahomet pursues his conquests, his
doctrine becomes a pretence rather than an end; all conceivable means
must be employed, and barbarities become abundant. A woman, whose
husband has been put to death by Mahomet's order, poisons him. In the
fifth act, he feels that he is poisoned. His great calmness, the return
to himself, and to a higher sense, make him worthy of admiration. He
purify his doctrine, establishes his kingdom, and dies.

Such was the sketch of a work which long occupied my mind, for usually
I was obliged to have the materials in my head, before I commenced the
execution. I meant, to represent the power which genius exercises over
men by character and intellect, and what are its gains and losses in
the process. Several of the songs, to be introduced in the drama, were
composed beforehand; all that remains of them, however, is what stands
among my poems under the title "_Mahomet's Gesang_," (Mahomet's Song).
According to the plan, this was to be sung by Ali in honor of his
master, at the highest point of his success, just before the changed
aspect of affairs resulting from the poison. I recollect also the
outlines of several scenes, but the explanation of them here would lead
me too far.


[1] That is to say, a native of one of the Imperial cities.

[2] The title of the poem is "Der untreue Knabe," (The Faithless Boy),
and in the first line of it, as published in Göthe's collected works,
"Knabe" will be found instead of "Bube"--Trans.




FIFTEENTH BOOK.


From these manifold dissipations, which, however, generally gave
occasion for serious, and even religious reflections, I always returned
to my noble friend, Fraülein von Klettenberg, whose presence calmed,
at least for a moment, my stormy and undirected impulses and passions,
and to whom next to my sister, I liked best to communicate designs
like that I have just spoken of. I might, indeed, have perceived that
her health was constantly failing, but I concealed it from myself, and
this I was the better able to do as her cheerfulness increased with her
illness. She used to sit, neatly dressed, in her chair at the window,
and kindly listened to the narratives of my little expeditions as well
as to what I read aloud to her. Often, too, I made sketches, in order
to make her understand the better the description of the places I had
seen. One evening, I had been recalling to my mind many different
images; when in the light of the setting sun she and all around her
appeared before me, as if transfigured, and I could not refrain from
making a drawing of her and of the surrounding objects in the chamber,
as well as my poor skill permitted. In the hands of a skilful artist
like Kersting it would have made a beautiful picture. I sent it to
a fair friend at a distance, and added a song as commentary and
supplement:

    In this magic glass reflected
      See a vision, mild and bless'd;
    By the wing of God protected,
      See our friend, while suffering, rest.

    Mark, how her endeavours bore her
      From life's waves to realms above;
    See thine image stand before her,
      And the God, who died from love.

    Feel what I, amid the floating
      Of that heavenly ether, knew;
    When the first impression noting,
      Hastily this sketch I drew.

Though in these stanzas, as had often happened before, I expressed
myself as "a stranger and foreigner," in short, as a heathen, she
did not take offence at it. On the contrary, she assured me that in
so doing I pleased her much more than when I attempted to employ the
Christian terminology, which somehow I could never apply correctly.
Indeed, it had become a standing custom with me, whenever I read to her
missionary intelligence, which she was always fond of listening to, to
take the part of the Pagans against the missionaries, and to praise
their old condition as preferable to their new one. Still she was ever
gentle and friendly, and seemed not to have the least fear about me or
my salvation.

[Side-note: The Moravians.]

My gradual alienation from her creed arose from the fact that I had
laid hold of it at first with too great zeal, with passionate love.
Ever since I became more intimately acquainted with the Moravians, my
inclination to this Society, which had united under the victorious
banners of Christ, had constantly increased. It is exactly in the
moment of its earliest formation that a positive religion possesses
its greatest attraction. On that account it is delightful to go back
to the time of the Apostles, where all stands forth as fresh and
immediately spiritual. And thus it was that the Moravian doctrine
acquired something of a magical charm by appearing to continue or
rather to perpetuate the condition of those first times. It connected
its origin with them; when it seemed to perish, it still wound its way
through the world, although by unnoticed tendrils; at last one little
germ took root beneath the protection of a pious and eminent man, and
so from an unnoticed and apparently accidental beginning expanded
once more over the wide world. In this Society, the most important
point, was the inseparable combination of the religious and civil
constitution by which the teacher was at the same time the ruler,
and the father the judge. What was still more distinctive of their
fraternity was that the religious head, to whom unlimited faith was
yielded in spiritual things, was also intrusted with the guidance of
temporal affairs, and his counsels, whether for the government of the
whole body, or for the guidance of individuals, if confirmed by the
issue of the lot, were implicitly followed. Its peace and harmony, to
which at least outward appearances testified, was most alluring, while,
on the other hand, the missionary vocation seemed to call forth and
to give employment to all man's active powers. The excellent persons
whose acquaintance I made at Marienborn, which I had visited in the
company of Councillor Moritz, the agent of Count von Isenburg, had
gained my unqualified esteem, and it only depended on themselves to
make me their own. I studied their history, and their doctrine, and
the origin and growth of their society, so as to be able to give an
account of it and to talk about it to all who might feel interested
in it. Nevertheless, the conviction was soon forced upon me that with
the brethren I did not pass for a Christian any more than I did with
Fraülein von Klettenberg. At first this disturbed me, but afterwards my
inclination to them became somewhat cooler. However, I could not for a
long time discover the precise ground of difference, although it was
obvious enough, until at last, it was forced upon me more by accident
than by reflection. What separated me from this brotherhood, as well
as from other good Christian souls, was the very point on which the
Church has more than once fallen into dissension. On the one hand, it
was maintained that by the Fall human nature had been so corrupted to
its innermost core, that not the least good could be found in it, and
that therefore man must renounce all trust in his own powers, and look
to grace and its operations for everything. The other party, while it
admitted the hereditary imperfections of man, nevertheless ascribed to
nature a certain germ of good within, which, animated by divine grace,
was capable of growing up to a joyous tree of spiritual happiness. By
this latter conviction I was unconsciously penetrated to my inmost
soul, even while with tongue and pen I maintained the opposite side.
But I had hitherto gone on with such ill-defined ideas, that I had
never once clearly stated the dilemma to myself. From this dream I was
unexpectedly roused one day, when, in a religious conversation, having
distinctly advanced opinions, to my mind, most innocent, I had in
return to undergo a severe lecture. The very thought of such a thing,
it was maintained, was genuine Pelagianism, a pernicious doctrine
which was again appearing, to the great injury of modern times. I was
astonished and even terrified. I went back to Church history, studied
the doctrine and fate of Pelagius more closely, and now saw clearly how
these two irreconcilable opinions had fluctuated in favour through
whole centuries, and had been embraced and acknowledged by different
men, according as they were of a more active or of a more passive
nature.

The course of past years had constantly led me more and more to the
exercise of my own powers. A restless activity was at work within me,
with the best desire for moral development. The world without demanded
that this activity should be regulated and employed for the advantage
of others, and this great demand I felt called upon in my own case to
meet. On all sides I had been directed to nature, and she had appeared
to me in her whole magnificence; I had been acquainted with many good
and true men who were toiling to do their duty, and for the sake of
duty; to renounce them, nay to renounce myself, seemed impossible. The
gulf which separated me from the doctrine of man's total depravity now
became plain to me. Nothing, therefore, remained to me but to part
from this society; and as my love of the holy Scriptures, as well as
of the founder of Christianity and its early professors, could not be
taken from me, I formed a Christianity for my private use, and sought
to establish and build it up by an attentive study of history and a
careful observation of those who were favourable to my opinion.

[Side-note: The Wandering Jew.]

As everything which I once warmly embraced immediately put on a poetic
form, I now took up the strange idea of treating epically the history
of the Wandering Jew, which popular books had long since impressed upon
my mind. My design was to bring out in the course of the narrative such
prominent points of the history of religion and the Church as I should
find convenient. I will now explain the way in which I treated this
fable, and what meaning I gave to it.

In Jerusalem, according to the legend, there was a shoemaker, of the
name of Ahasuerus. For this character my Dresden shoemaker was to
supply the main features. I had furnished him with the spirit and humor
of a craftsman of the school of Hans Sachs, and ennobled him by an
inclination to Christ. Accordingly as, in his open workshop, he liked
to talk with the passers-by, jested with them, and, after the Socratic
fashion, touched up every one in his own way, the neighbors and others
of the people took pleasure in lingering at his booth; even Pharisees
and Sadducees spoke to him, and the Saviour himself and his disciples
would often stop at his door. The shoemaker, whose thoughts were
directed solely towards the world, I painted as feeling, nevertheless,
a special affection for our Lord, which, for the most part, evinced
itself by a desire to bring this lofty being, whose mind he did not
comprehend, over to his own way of thinking and acting. Accordingly,
in a modest manner, he recommends Christ to abandon his contemplative
life, and to leave off going about the country with such idlers,
and drawing the people away from their labor into the wilderness. A
multitude, he said, was always ready for excitement, and nothing good
could come of it.

On the other hand, the Lord endeavoured, by parables, to instruct him
in his higher views and aims, but these were all thrown away on his
mere matter-of-fact intellect. Thus, as Christ becomes more and more
an important character, and finally a public person, the friendly
workman pronounces his opinion still more sharply and vehemently,
maintaining that nothing but disorder and tumult could follow from such
proceedings, and that Christ would be at last compelled to put himself
at the head of a party, though that could not possibly be his design.
Finally, when things had taken the course which history narrates, and
Christ had been seized and condemned, Ahasuerus gives full vent to
his indignation when Judas who undesignedly had betrayed his Lord,
in his despair enters the workshop, and with lamentations relates
how his plans had been crossed. He had been, he said, as well as the
shrewdest of the other disciples, firmly convinced that Christ would
declare himself regent and head of the nation. His purpose was only,
by this violence, to compel the Lord, whose hesitation had hitherto
been invincible, to hasten the declaration. Accordingly, he had incited
the priesthood to an act which previously they had not courage to do.
The disciples, on their side, were not without arms, and probably all
would have turned out well, if the Lord had not given himself up, and
left them in the most forlorn state. Ahasuerus, whom this narrative in
no ways tends to propitiate, only exasperates the agony of the poor
ex-apostle, who rushes out and goes and hangs himself.

[Side-note: The Wandering Jew.]

As Jesus is led past the workshop of the shoemaker, on his way to
execution, the well-known scene of the legend occurs. The sufferer
faints under the burden of the cross, and Simon of Cyrene is compelled
to carry it. Upon this, Ahasuerus comes forward, and sustains the part
of those harsh common-sense people, who, when they see a man involved
in misfortune through his own fault, feel no pity, but, struck by an
untimely sense of justice, make the matter worse by their reproaches.
As he comes out, he repeats all his former warnings, changing them
into vehement accusations, which his attachment to the sufferer seems
to justify. The Saviour does not answer, but at the instant the loving
Veronica covers his face with the napkin, on which, as she removes
it and raises it aloft, Ahasuerus sees depicted the features of the
Lord, not indeed as those of the sufferer of the moment, but as of
one transfigured and radiant with celestial life. Amazed by this
phenomenon, he turns away his eyes and hears the words: "Over the earth
shalt thou wander till thou shalt once more see me in this form."
Overwhelmed at the sentence, it is not till after some time that the
artisan comes to himself; he then finds that every one has gone to
the place of execution and that the streets of Jerusalem are empty.
Disquiet and curiosity drive him forth, and he begins his wandering.

I shall, perhaps, speak elsewhere of all this, and of the incident
by which the poem was ended indeed, but not finished. The beginning,
some detached passages, and the conclusion, were written. But I never
completed the work. I lacked time for the studies necessary to give
it the finish and bearing that I wished. The few sheets which I did
write were the more willingly left to repose in obscurity, as a new
and necessary epoch was now formed in my mental character by the
publication of Werther.

The common fate of man, which all of us have to bear, must fall most
heavily on those whose intellectual powers expand very early. For a
time we may grow up under the protection of parents and relatives;
we may lean for a while upon our brothers and sisters and friends,
be supported by acquaintances, and made happy by those we love, but
in the end man is always driven back upon himself, and it seems as
if the Divinity had taken a position towards men so as not always
to respond to their reverence, trust, and love, at least not in the
precise moment of need. Early enough, and by many a hard lesson, had I
learned that at the most urgent crises the call to us is, "Physician,
heal thyself;" and how frequently had I been compelled to sigh out in
pain, "I tread the wine-press alone!" So now, while I was looking about
for the means of establishing my independence, I felt that the surest
basis on which to build was my own creative talents. For many years I
had never known it to fail me for a moment. What, waking, I had seen
by day, often shaped itself into regular dreams at night, and when I
opened my eyes there appeared to me either a wonderful new whole, or a
part of one already commenced. Usually, my time for wilting was early
in the morning, but still in the evening, or even late at night, when
wine and social intercourse had raised my spirits, I was ready for any
topic that might be suggested; only let a subject of some character be
offered, and I was at once prepared and ready. While, then, I reflected
upon this natural gift, and found that it belonged to me as my own,
and could neither be favoured nor hindered by any external matters, I
easily in thought built my whole existence upon it. This conception
soon assumed a distinct form; the old mythological image of Prometheus
occurred to me, who, separated from the gods, peopled a world from his
own workshop. I clearly felt that a creation of importance could be
produced only when its author isolated himself. My productions which
had met with so much applause were children of solitude, and since I
had stood in a wider relation to the world, I had not been wanting
in the power or the pleasure of invention, but the execution halted,
because I had, neither in prose nor in verse, a style properly my
own, and, consequently, with every new work, had always to begin at
the beginning and try experiments. As in this I had to decline and
even to exclude the aid of men, so, after the fashion of Prometheus,
I separated myself from the gods also, and the more naturally as with
my character and mode of thinking one tendency always swallowed up and
repelled all others.

[Side-note: Prometheus.]

The fable of Prometheus became living in me. The old Titan web I cut up
according to my own measurements, and without further reflection began
to write a piece in which was painted the difficulty Prometheus was
placed in with respect to Jupiter and the later gods, in consequence
of his making men with his own hand, giving them life by the aid of
Minerva, and founding a third dynasty. And, in fact, the reigning gods
had good cause to feel aggrieved, since they might now appear in
the light of wrongful intruders between the Titans and men. To this
singular composition belongs as a monologue that poem, which has become
remarkable in German literature, by having called forth a declaration
from Lessing against Jacobi on certain weighty matters of thought and
feeling. It thus served as the match to an explosion which revealed
and brought into discussion the most secret relations of men of
worth;--relations of which they perhaps were not themselves conscious,
and which were slumbering in a society otherwise most enlightened. The
schism was so violent, that, with the concurrence of further incidents,
it caused us the loss of one of our most valuable men, namely,
Mendelssohn.

Although philosophical and even religions considerations may be,
and before now have been attached to this subject, still it belongs
peculiarly to poetry. The Titans are the foil of polytheism, as the
devil may be considered the foil of monotheism, though, like the only
God to whom he stands in contrast, he is not a poetic figure. The
Satan of Milton, though boldly enough drawn, still remains in the
disadvantageous light of a subordinate existence attempting to destroy
the splendid creation of a higher being; Prometheus, on the contrary,
has this advantage, that, even in spite of superior beings, he is able
to act and to create. It is also a beautiful thought, and well suited
to poetry, to represent men as created not by the Supreme Ruler of the
world, but by an intermediate agent, who, however, as a descendant of
the most ancient dynasty, is of worth and importance enough for such an
office. Thus, and indeed under every aspect, the Grecian mythology is
an inexhaustible mine of divine and human symbols.

Nevertheless, the Titanic, gigantic, heaven-storming character afforded
no suitable material for my poetic art. It better suited me to
represent that peaceful, plastic, and always patient opposition which
recognising the superior power, still presumes to claim equality. And
yet the bolder members of the race, Tantalus, Ixion, Sisyphus, were
also my saints. Admitted to the society of the gods, they would not
deport themselves submissively enough, but, by their haughty bearing
as guests, provoked the anger of their host and patron, and drew upon
themselves a sorrowful banishment. I pitied them; their condition had
already been set forth by the ancients as truly tragic, and when I
introduced them in the background of my _Iphigenie_, I was indebted to
them for a part of the effect which that piece had the good fortune to
produce.

At this period I usually combined the art of design with poetical
composition. I drew the portraits of my friends in profile on grey
paper, in white and black chalk. Whenever I dictated or listened
to reading, I sketched the positions of the writer and reader,
with the surrounding objects; the resemblance could not be denied,
and the drawings were well received. Dilettanti always have this
advantage because they give their labor for nothing. But feeling the
insufficiency of this copying, I betook myself once more to language
and rhythm which were much more at my command. How briskly, how
joyously and eagerly I went to work with them will appear from the many
poems which, enthusiastically proclaiming the art of nature, and the
nature of art, infused, at the moment of their production, new spirit
into me as well as into my friends.

At this epoch, and in the midst of these occupations, I was sitting one
evening with a struggling light in my chamber, to which at least the
air of an artist's studio was thus imparted, while the walls, stuck
over and covered with half-finished works, gave the impression of great
industry, when there entered a well-formed, slender man, whom, at
first, in the twilight, I took for Fritz Jacobi, but soon, discovering
my mistake, greeted as a stranger. In his free and agreeable bearing a
certain military air was perceptible. He announced himself by the name
of Von Knebel, and from a brief introduction I gathered that he was in
the Prussian service, and that during a long residence at Berlin and
Potsdam he had actively cultivated an acquaintance with the literary
men of those places, and with German literature in general. He had
attached himself particularly to Ramler, and had adopted his mode of
reciting poems. He was also familiar with all that Götz had written,
who, at that time, had not as yet made a name among the Germans.
Through his exertions the _Mädcheninsel_ (Isle of Maidens) of this poet
had been printed at Potsdam, and had fallen into the hands of the king,
who was said to have expressed a favorable opinion of it.

[Side-note: State of Weimar.]

We had scarcely talked over these subjects of general interest in
German literature, before I learned, much to my satisfaction, that he
was at present stationed in Weimar, and was appointed the companion of
Prince Constantin. Of matters there I had already heard much that was
favorable; for several strangers, who had come from Weimar, assured
us that the Duchess Amalia had gathered round her the best men to
assist in the education of the princes her sons; that the Academy of
Jena, through its admirable teachers, had also contributed its part
to this excellent purpose; and that the arts were not only protected
by this princess, but were practised by her with great diligence and
zeal. We also heard that Wieland was in especial favor. The _Deutsche
Merkur_, too, which united the labors of so many scholars in other
places, contributed not a little to the fame of the city in which it
was published. There also was one of the best theatres in Germany,
which was made famous by its actors, as well as by the authors who
wrote for it. These noble institutions and plans seemed, however,
to have received a sudden check, and to be threatened with a long
interruption, in consequence of the terrible conflagration of the
castle, which took place in the May of that year. But the confidence
in the hereditary prince was so great that every one was convinced not
only that the damage would be repaired, but that in spite of it every
other hope would be fully accomplished. As I inquired after these
persons and things, as if I were an old acquaintance, and expressed
a wish to become more intimately acquainted with them, my visitor
replied, in the most friendly manner possible, that nothing was easier,
since the hereditary prince, with his brother, the Prince Constantin,
had just arrived in Frankfort, and desired to see and know me. I at
once expressed the greatest willingness to wait upon them, and my new
friend told me that I must not delay, as their stay would not be long.
In order to equip myself for the visit, I took Von Knebel to my father
and mother, who were surprised at his arrival, and the message he bore,
and conversed with him with great satisfaction. I then proceeded with
him to the young princes, who received me in a very easy and friendly
manner; Count Görtz, also, the tutor of the hereditary prince, appeared
not displeased to see me. Though there was no lack of literary subjects
for our conversation, accident furnished the best possible introduction
to it, and rendered it at once important and profitable.

Möser's _Patriotische Fantasien_ (patriotic Fantasies), that is to
say, the first part of them, were lying on the table, fresh from the
binder, with the leaves uncut. As I was familiar with them, while the
rest were scarcely acquainted with them, I had the advantage of being
able to give a complete account of the work, and had here a favorable
opportunity for speaking with a young prince who was sincerely
desirous, and also firmly determined to make use of his station to do
all the good in his power. Möser's book, both in its contents and its
tone, could not but be highly interesting to every German. While by
other writers division, anarchy, and impotence, had been brought as a
reproach against the German empire, according to Möser this very number
of small states was highly desirable, as affording room for the special
cultivation of each, according to its necessities, which must vary with
the site and peculiarities of such widely different provinces. In the
same way, I remarked, that Möser, starting with the city and bishopric
(_Stift_) of Osnaburg, and thence going over the circle of Westphalia,
set forth its relation to the whole empire, and just as he, in the
further examination of the subject, uniting the past with the present,
deduced the latter from the former, and thus clearly shewed what
alterations were desirable or not; so might every ruler, by proceeding
in the same way, obtain a thorough knowledge of the constitution of
the state he governs, its connexion with its neighbors and with the
whole empire, and thus enable himself to judge both the present and the
future.

In the course of our conversation, many remarks were made with regard
to the difference between the States of Upper and Lower Saxony; not
only their natural productions, it was observed, but also their
manners, laws, and customs had differed from the earliest times,
and, according to the form of religion and government, had variously
modified themselves. We endeavoured to obtain a clear view of the
differences between the two regions, and in this attempt it soon
appeared how useful it would be to have a good model, which, if
regarded, not in its individual peculiarities, but in the general
method on which it had been based, might be applied to the most widely
differing cases, and thereby might be highly serviceable in helping us
to form a correct judgment.

This conversation, which was kept up when we were set down at table,
made a better impression in my favor than I perhaps deserved. For
instead of making such works as belonged to my own sphere of literature
the subjects of discussion; instead of demanding an undivided attention
for the drama and for romance, I appeared while discussing Möser's
book, to prefer those writers whose talents, proceeding from active
life, returned to it with immediate benefit, whereas works properly
poetical, as soaring above mere social and material interests, could
only be indirectly and accidentally profitable. These discussions went
on like the stories of the Arabian Nights; one important matter came
up after another; many themes were only touched upon without our being
able to follow them out, and accordingly, as the stay of the young
princes in Frankfort was necessarily short, they made me promise to
follow them to Mayence and spend a few days with them there. I gave
this promise gladly enough, and hastened home to impart the agreeable
intelligence to my parents.

[Side-note: Prospects of a Court-Life.]

My father, however, could not by any means be brought to approve of
it. In accordance with his sentiments as a citizen of the empire, he
had always kept aloof from the great, and although constantly coming
in contact with the _chargés d'affaires_ of the neighboring princes,
he had nevertheless avoided all personal relations with them. In fact,
courts were among the things about which he was accustomed to joke. He
was not indeed displeased if any one opposed his opinions on this head;
only he was not satisfied unless his opponent maintained his side with
wit and spirit. If we allowed his "_Procul a Jove procul a fulmine_"
to pass, but added that with lightning the question was not so much
whence it came as whither it went; he would bring up the old proverb,
"With great lords it is not good to eat cherries." When to this we
replied that it was yet worse to eat with dainty people out of one
basket, he would not deny the truth of this; only he was sure to have
another proverb ready at hand which was to put us to confusion. For
since proverbs and rhyming apophthegms proceed from the people, who,
while they are forced to obey, like at least to speak their vengeance,
just as their superiors, on the other hand, indemnify themselves by
deeds; and since the poetry of the sixteenth century is almost wholly
of a nervous didactic character, there is in our language no lack of
jests and serious adages, directed from below upwards. We juniors,
however, now began to aim from above downwards, fancying ourselves
something great as we took up the cause of the great. Of these sayings
and counter-sayings I will here insert a few.

                   A.

    Long at court is long in hell,

                   B.

    There many good folks warm them well.

                   A
    Such as I am, I'm still mine own,
    To me shall favors ne'er be shown.

                   B.

    Blush not a favor to receive,
    For you must take, if you would give.

                   A.

    This trouble at the court you catch,
    That where you itch, you must not scratch.

                   B.

    The sage, that would the people teach,
    Must scratch a place that does not itch.

                   A.

    Those who a slavish office choose,
    One half of life are sure to lose,
    And come what will they may be sure,
    Old Nick the other will secure.

                   B.

    Whoe'er with princes is at home,
    Will some day find good fortune come;
    Who courts the rabble,--to his cost
    Will find that all his year is lost.

                   A.

    Though wheat at court seems flourishing,
    Doubt that great harvest it will bring,
    When to your barn you deem it brought.
    You'll find that after all 'tis nought.

                   B.

    The wheat that blooms will ripen too,
    For so of old it used to do;
    And if a crop is spoil'd by hail,
    The next year's harvest will not fail.

                   A.

    He who would serve himself alone,
    Should have a cottage of his own.
      Dwell with his children and his wife,
    Regale himself with light new wine,
    And on the cheapest viands dine;
      Then nothing can disturb his life.

                   B.

    So, from a master you'ld be free?--
    Whither think'st thou then to flee?
    Dream not your freedom you will get,
    You have a wife to rule you yet.
    She by her stupid boy is ruled,
    Thus in your cot you still are schooled.

[Side-note: Prospects of a Court-Life.]

As I was lately looking up these rhymes in some old memorandum books, I
fell in with many such _jeux d'esprit_, in which we had amplified pithy
old German saws, in order to set them off against other proverbs which
are equally verified by experience. A selection from them may perhaps
hereafter, as an epilogue to the "Puppenspiele" (puppet shows), suggest
some pleasant reflections.

But all these rejoinders could not move my father from his opinions.
He was in the habit of saving his most stringent argument for the
close of the discussion. This consisted of a minute description of
Voltaire's adventure with Frederick the Second. He told us how the
unbounded favor, familiarity, mutual obligations, were at once revoked
and forgotten; how he had lived to see the comedy out in the arrest of
that extraordinary poet and writer by the Frankfort civic guard, on the
complaint of the Resident Freytag, and the warrant of the Burgomaster
Fichard, and his confinement for some time in the tavern of the Rose,
on the Zeil. To this we might have answered in many ways,--among
others, that Voltaire was not free from blame himself,--but from
filial respect we always yielded the point. On the present occasion,
when these things and others like them were alluded to, I hardly knew
how to demean myself, for he warned me explicitly, maintaining that
the invitation was given only to entice me into a trap, in order to
take vengeance on me for my mischievous treatment of the favored
Wieland. Fully as I was convinced of the contrary, yet as I saw but too
plainly that a preconceived opinion, excited by hypochondriac fancies,
afflicted my worthy father, I was unwilling to act in direct opposition
to his convictions. Still I could not find any excuse for failing
to keep my promise without appearing ungrateful and uncourteous.
Unfortunately our friend Fraülein Von Klettenberg, to whose advice we
usually resorted in such cases, was confined to her bed. In her and my
mother I had two incomparable companions. I called them Word and Deed;
for when the former cast her serene or rather blissful glance over
earthly things, what was confusion to us children of earth, at once
grew plain before her, and she could almost always point out the right
way, because she looked upon the labyrinth from above, and was not
herself entangled in it. When a decision was once made, the readiness
and energy of my mother could be relied on. While the former had Sight
for her aid the latter had Faith, and as she maintained her serenity in
all cases, she was never without the means of accomplishing what was
proposed or desired. Accordingly she was now despatched to our sick
friend to obtain her opinion, and when this turned out in my favour,
she was entreated to gain the consent of my father, who yielded,
against his belief and will.

[Side-note: Gods, Heroes, and Wieland]

It was in a very cold season of the year that I arrived at the
appointed hour in Mayence. My reception by the young princes and
by their attendants, was no less friendly than the invitation. The
conversation in Frankfort was recalled and resumed at the point
where it had been broken off. When it touched upon the recent German
literature and its audacities, it was perfectly natural that my famous
piece, "_Götter, Helden, und Wieland_" (Gods, Heroes, and Wieland)
should come up, at which I remarked with satisfaction that the thing
was regarded with good humor. Being called on to give the real history
of this _jeu d'esprit_, which had excited so great attention, I could
not avoid confessing, first of all, that as true fellows of the Upper
Rhine, we had no bounds either to our liking or disliking. With us,
reverence for Shakspeare was carried to adoration. But Wieland, with
his decided peculiarity of destroying the interest, both of himself
and of his readers, had, in the notes to his translation, found much
fault with the great author, and that in such a way as to vex us
exceedingly, and to diminish in our eyes, the value of the work. We
saw that Wieland, whom we had so highly revered as a poet, and who,
as a translator, had rendered such great service, was, as a critic,
capricious, one-sided, and unjust. Besides this, he had deliberately
spoken against our idols, the Greeks, and this sharpened our hostility
yet more. It is well known that the Greek gods and heroes are eminent
not for moral but for glorified physical qualities, for which reason
they afford such splendid subjects to artists. Now Wieland, in his
_Alceste_, had presented heroes and demi-gods after the modern fashion.
Against this we had nothing to say, as every one is at liberty to mould
poetic traditions to his own ends and way of thinking. But in the
letters on this opera, which he inserted in the _Merkur_, he appeared
to us unduly to exalt this mode of treating them; in short, to show too
much of the partisan, and to commit an unpardonable sin against the
good ancients and their higher style, by his absolute unwillingness
to recognise the strong, healthy nature which is the basis of their
productions. I told them we had hardly discussed these grievances
with some vehemence in our little society, when my ordinary rage for
dramatizing everything came upon me one Sunday afternoon, and so at one
sitting, over a bottle of good Burgundy, I wrote off the whole piece,
just as it stands. It was no sooner read to those of my colleagues as
were present, and received by them with exclamations of delight, than I
sent the manuscript to Lenz at Strasburg, who appeared enraptured with
it, and maintained that it must be printed without delay. After some
correspondence, I at last consented, and he put it hastily to press at
Strasburg. Some time afterwards, I learned that this was one of the
first steps which Lenz took in his design to injure me, and to bring
me into disgrace with the public; but at that time I neither knew nor
surmised anything of the kind.

In this way I narrated to my new patrons, with perfect candour, the
innocent origin of the piece, as well as I knew it myself, in order
to convince them that it contained no personality, nor any ulterior
motive. I also took care to let them understand with what gaiety and
recklessness we were accustomed to banter and ridicule each other
among ourselves. With this, I saw that they were quite content. They
almost admired the great fear we had lest any one of ourselves should
go to sleep upon his laurels. They compared such a society to those
Buccaneers who, in every moment of repose, are afraid of becoming
effeminate, and whose leaders, when there are no enemies in sight, and
there is no one to plunder, will let off a pistol under the mess-table,
in order that even in peace there may be no want of wounds and horrors.
After considerable discussion pro and con upon this subject, I was
at last induced to write Wieland a friendly letter. I gladly availed
myself of the opportunity, as, in the _Merkur_, he had spoken most
liberally of this piece of youthful folly, and as, in literary feuds,
was almost always his custom, had ended the affair in the most skilful
manner.

[Side-note: Prometheus, Deucalion and his Reviewers.]

The few days of my stay at Mayence passed off very pleasantly; for
when my new patrons were abroad on visits and banquets, I remained
with their attendants, drew the portraits of several, or went skating,
for which the frozen ditches of the fortification afforded excellent
opportunity. I returned home full of the kindness I had met with, and,
as I entered the house, was on the point of emptying my heart by a
minute account of it; but I saw only troubled faces, and the conviction
was soon forced upon me that our friend Fraülein von Klettenberg was no
more. At this I was greatly concerned, because, in my present situation
I needed her more than ever. They told me for my consolation, that
a pious death had crowned her happy life, and that the cheerfulness
of her faith had remained undisturbed to the end. But there was also
another obstacle in the way of a free communication on the subject
of my visit. My father, instead of rejoicing at the fortunate issue
of this little adventure, persisted in his opinion, and maintained,
on the other hand, that it was nothing but dissimulation, and that
perhaps there was a danger of their carrying out in the end something
still worse against me. I was thus driven to my younger friends
with my narrative, and to them I could not tell it circumstantially
enough. But, their attachment and good will, led to a result which
to me was most unpleasant. Shortly afterwards, appeared a pamphlet,
called "Prometheus, Deucalion and his Reviewers," also in a dramatic
form. In this the comical notion was carried out, of putting little
wood-cut figures before the dialogue, instead of proper names, and
representing by all sorts of satirical images those critics who had
expressed an opinion upon my works, or on works akin to them. In one
place the Altona courier, without his head, was blowing his horn, here
a bear was growling, and there a goose was cackling. The _Merkur_, too,
was not forgotten, and many wild and tame animals were represented
in the _atelier_ of the sculptor endeavoring to put him out, while
he, without taking particular notice of them, kept zealously at his
work, and did not refrain from expressing his opinion about the
matter in general. The appearance of this _jeu d'esprit_ surprised
me much, and was as unexpected as it was disagreeable. Its style and
tone evidently showed that it was by one of our society, and indeed
I feared it might be attributed to me. But what was most annoying,
was the circumstance that "Prometheus" brought out some allusions
to my stay at Mayence and to what was said there, which nobody but
myself could have known. To me this was a proof that the author was
one of those who formed my most intimate circle of friends, where he
must have heard me relate these events in detail. Accordingly we all
looked at each other, and each suspected the rest, but the unknown
writer managed very well to keep his own secret. I uttered vehement
reproaches against him, because it was exceedingly vexatious to me,
after so gracious a reception and so important a conversation, and
after the confiding letter I had written to Wieland, to see here an
occasion for fresh distrust and disagreement. However my uncertainty on
this point was not of long duration. As I walked up and down my room
reading the book aloud, I heard clearly in the fancies and the turns of
expression the voice of Wagner--and it was he. When I had rushed down
stairs to impart my discovery to my mother, she confessed to me that
she already knew it. Annoyed at the ill results of what had seemed to
him a good and praiseworthy plan, the author had discovered himself
to her, and besought her intercession with me, not to fulfil in his
person my threat of holding no further intercourse with the writer who
had so abused my confidence. The fact that I had found him out myself
was very much in his favour, and the satisfaction always attending a
discovery of one's own, inclined me to be merciful. The fault which
had given occasion for such a proof of my sagacity, was forgiven.
Nevertheless, it was not easy to convince the public that Wagner was
the author, and that I had had no hand in the game. No one believed
that he possessed such versatility of talent; and no one reflected,
that it was very easy for him, though possessing no remarkable
talents of his own, to notice, seize upon, and bring out in his own
way all that for some time had passed either in jest and earnest in
an intellectual society. And thus on this occasion as on many others
afterwards, I had to suffer not only for my own follies, but also for
the indiscretion and precipitancy of my friends.

As the remembrance of them is here suggested by many circumstances,
I will speak of some distinguished men who, at different times, on
their passage through Frankfort, either lodged at our house or partook
of our friendly hospitality. Once more Klopstock stands justly at
the head. I had already exchanged several letters with him, when he
announced to me that he was invited to go to Carlsruhe and to reside
there; that he would be in Friedberg by a specified day, and wished
that I would come there and fetch him. I did not fail to be there at
the hour. He, however, had been accidently detained upon the road;
and after I had waited in vain for some days, I went home, where he
did not arrive till after some time, and then excused his delay, and
received very kindly my readiness to come to meet him. His person was
small but well-built; his manners without being stiff, were serious
and precise; his conversation was measured and agreeable. On the whole
there was something of the diplomatist in his bearing. Such a man
undertakes the difficult task of supporting, at the same time, his own
dignity, and that of a superior to whom he is responsible; of advancing
his own interest, together with the much more important interest of a
prince, or even of a whole State; and of making himself, beyond all
things, pleasing to other men while in this critical position. In this
way Klopstock appeared to bear himself as a man of worth and as the
representative of other things--of religion, of morality and freedom.
He had also assumed another peculiarity of men of the world--namely,
not readily to speak on subjects upon which he was particularly
expected and desired to discourse. He was seldom heard to mention
poetic and literary subjects. But as he found in me and my friends a
set of passionate skaters, he discoursed to us at length on this noble
art, on which he had thought much, having considered what in it was
to be sought, and what avoided. Still, before we could receive the
instruction he proffered, we had to submit to be put right as to the
word itself, in which we blundered.[1] We spoke in good Upper-Saxon
of _Schlittschuhen_, which he would not allow to pass at all; for the
word, he said, does not come from _Schlitten_ (sledge), as if one went
on little runners, but from _Schreiten_ (to stride), because like the
Homeric gods the skater strides away on these winged shoes over the
sea frozen into a plain. Next we came to the instrument itself. He
would have nothing to do with the high grooved skates, but recommended
the low, broad, smooth-bottomed Friseland steel skates as the most
serviceable for speed. He was no friend to the tricks of art which
are usually performed in this exercise. I procured, according to his
advice, a pair of smooth skates, with long toes, and used them for
several years, though with some discomfort. He understood, too, the
science of horsemanship and horse-breaking, and liked to talk about
it; thus, as if by design, he avoided all conversation upon his own
profession, that he might speak with greater freedom about arts quite
foreign to it, which he pursued only as a pastime. I might say much
more of these and other peculiarities of this extraordinary man, if
those who lived longer with him had not already informed us fully about
them. One observation, however, I will not suppress, which is, that men
whom Nature, after endowing them with uncommon advantages, has placed
in a narrow circle of action, or at least in one disproportioned to
their powers, generally fall into eccentricities; and as they have no
opportunity of making direct use of their gifts, seek to employ them in
an extraordinary or whimsical manner.

[Side-note: Zimmermann.]

Zimmermann was also for a time our guest. He was tall and powerfully
built; of a vehement nature open to every impulse; yet he had his
outward bearing and manners perfectly under control, so that in
society he appeared as a skilful physician and polished man of the
world. It was only in his writings and amongst his most confidential
friends, that he gave free course to his untamed inward character. His
conversation was varied and highly instructive, and for one who could
pardon his keen sensitiveness to whatever grated on his own personal
feelings and merits, no more desirable companion could be found. For
myself, as what is called vanity never disturbed me, and I in return
often presumed to be vain also--that is, did not hesitate to enlarge
upon whatever in myself pleased me, I got on with him capitally. We
mutually tolerated and scolded each other, and, as he showed himself
thoroughly open and communicative, I learned from him a great deal in a
short time.

To judge such a man with the indulgence of gratitude, nay on principle,
I cannot say that he was vain. We Germans misuse the word "vain"
(citel), but too often. In a strict sense, it carries with it the idea
of emptiness, and we properly designate by it only the man who cannot
conceal his joy at his Nothing, his contentment with a hollow phantom.
With Zimmermann it was exactly the reverse; he had great deserts, and
no inward satisfaction. The man who cannot enjoy his own natural gifts
in silence, and find his reward in the exercise of them, but must
wait and hope for their recognition and appreciation by others, will
generally find himself but badly off, because it is but too well known
a fact that men are very niggard of their applause; that they rather
love to mingle alloy with praise, and where it can in any degree be
done, to turn it into blame. Whoever comes before the public without
being prepared for this, will meet with nothing but vexation; since,
even if he does not overestimate his own production, it still has
for him an unlimited value, while the reception it meets with in the
world, is in every case qualified. Besides, a certain susceptibility
is necessary for praise and applause, as for every other pleasure. Let
this be applied to Zimmermann, and it will be acknowledged in his case
too; that no one can obtain what he does not bring with him.

[Side-note: Zimmermann.]

If this apology cannot be allowed, still less shall we be able to
justify another fault of this remarkable man, because it disturbed
and even destroyed the happiness of others. I mean his conduct towards
his children. A daughter, who travelled with him, stayed with us
while he visited the neighbouring scenes. She might be about sixteen
years old, slender and well formed, but without attractiveness; her
regular features would have been agreeable, if there had appeared in
them a trace of animation, but she was always as quiet as a statue;
she spoke seldom, and in the presence of her father never. But she
had scarcely spent a few days alone with my mother, receiving the
cheerful and affectionate attentions of this sympathizing woman,
than she threw herself at her feet with an opened heart, and with a
thousand tears, begged to be allowed to remain with her. With the most
passionate language she declared that she would remain in the house
as a servant, as a slave all her life, rather than go back with her
father, of whose severity and tyranny no one could form an idea. Her
brother had gone mad under his treatment; she had hitherto borne it
though with difficulty, because she had believed that it was the same,
or not much better, in every family, but now that she had experienced
such a loving, mild and considerate treatment, her situation at home
had become to her a perfect hell. My mother was greatly moved as she
related to me this passionate effusion, and indeed, she went so far
in her sympathy, as to give me pretty clearly to understand, that she
would be content to keep the girl in the house, if I would make up my
mind to marry her. If she were an orphan, I replied, I might think
and talk it over; but God keep me from a father-in-law who is such a
father! My mother took great pains with the poor girl, but this made
her only the more unhappy. At last an expedient was found, by putting
her to a boarding-school. Her life, I should observe in passing, was
not a very long one.

I should hardly mention this culpable peculiarity of a man of such
great deserts, if it had not already become a matter of public
notoriety, and especially had not the unfortunate hypochondria, with
which, in his last hours, he tortured himself and others, been commonly
talked of. For that severity towards his children was nothing less
than hypochondria, a partial insanity, a continuous moral murder,
which, after making his children its victims, was at last directed
against himself. We must also remember that though apparently in such
good health, he was a great sufferer even in his best years;--that an
incurable disease troubled the skilful physician who had relieved, and
still gave ease to so many of the afflicted. Yes, this distinguished
man, with all his outward reputation, fame, honour, rank, and wealth,
led the saddest life, and whoever will take the pains to learn more
about it from existing publications, will not condemn but pity him.

If it is now expected that I shall give a more precise account of the
effect which this distinguished man had upon me, I must once more
recall the general features of that period. The epoch in which we
were living might be called an epoch of high requisitions, for every
one demanded of himself and of others what no mortal had hitherto
accomplished. On chosen spirits who could think and feel, a light
had arisen, which enabled them to see that an immediate, original
understanding of nature, and a course of action based upon it, was both
the best thing a man could desire, and also not difficult to attain.
Experience thus once more became the universal watchword, and every
one opened his eyes as wide as he could. Physicians, especially, had a
most pressing call to labour to this end, and the best opportunity for
finding it. Upon them a star shone out of antiquity, which could serve
as an example of all that was to be desired. The writings which had
come down to us under the name of Hippocrates, furnished a model of the
way in which a man should both observe the world and relate what he had
seen, without mixing up himself with it. But no one considered that we
cannot see like the Greeks, and that we shall never become such poets,
sculptors, and physicians as they were. Even granted that we could
learn from them, still the results of experience already gone through,
were almost beyond number, and besides were not always of the clearest
kind; moreover had too often been made to accord with preconceived
opinions. All these were to be mastered, discriminated, and sifted.
This also, was an immense demand. Then again it was required that each
observer, in his personal sphere and labours, should acquaint himself
with the true, healthy nature, as if she were now for the first time
noticed, and attended, and thus only what was genuine and real was to
be learned. But as, in general, learning can never exist without the
accompaniment of a universal smattering and a universal pedantry, nor
the practice of any profession without empiricism and charlatanry, so
there sprung up a violent conflict, the purpose of which was to guard
use from abuse, and place the kernel high above the shell in men's
estimation. In the execution of this design, it was perceived that
the shortest way of getting out of the affair, was to call in the aid
of genius, whose magic gifts could settle the strife, and accomplish
what was required. Meanwhile, however, the understanding meddled
with the matter; all it alleged must be reduced to clear notions,
and exhibited in a logical form, that every prejudice might be put
aside, and all superstition destroyed. And since the achievements of
some extraordinary men, such as Boerhaave and Haller, were actually
incredible, people thought themselves justified in demanding even still
more from their pupils and successors. It was maintained that the path
was opened, forgetting that in earthly things a path can very rarely
be spoken of; for, as the water that is dislodged by a ship, instantly
flows in again behind it, so by the law of its nature, when eminent
spirits have once driven error aside, and made a place for themselves,
it very quickly closes upon them again.

[Side-note: Zimmermann.]

But of this the ardent Zimmermann could form no idea whatever; he would
not admit that absurdity did in fact fill up the world. Impatient, even
to madness, he rushed to attack everything that he saw and believed to
be wrong. It was all the same to him whether he was fighting with a
nurse or with Paracelsus, with a quack, or a chemist. His blows fell
alike heavily in either case, and when he had worked himself out of
breath, he was greatly astonished to see the heads of this hydra, which
he thought he had trodden under foot, springing up all fresh again, and
showing him their teeth from innumerable jaws.

Every one who reads his writings, especially his clever work "On
Experience," will perceive more distinctly than I can express them,
the subjects of discussion between this excellent man and myself.
His influence over me, was the more powerful, as he was twenty years
my senior. Having a high reputation as a physician, he was chiefly
employed among the upper classes, and the corruption of the times,
caused by effeminacy and excess, was a constant theme of conversation
with him. Thus his medical discourses, like those of the philosophers
and my poetical friends, drove me again back to nature. In his vehement
passion for improvement I could not fully participate; on the contrary,
after we separated, I instantly drew back into my own proper calling,
and endeavoured to employ the gifts nature had bestowed upon me, with
moderate exertion, and by good-natured opposition to what I disapproved
of, to gain a standing for myself, in perfect indifference how far my
influence might reach or whither it might lead me.

Von Salis, who was setting up the large boarding school at Marsehlins,
visited us also at that time. He was an earnest and intelligent man,
and must have quietly made many humorous observations on the irregular
though genial mode of life in our little society. The same was probably
the case with Sulzer, who came in contact with us on his journey to the
south of France; at least a passage in his travels where he speaks of
me, seems to favor this opinion.

These visits, which were as agreeable as they were profitable, were
however diversified by others which we would rather have been spared.
Needy and shameless adventurers fixed themselves on the confiding
youth, supporting their urgent demands by real as well as fictitious
relationships and misfortunes. They borrowed my money, and made it
necessary for me to borrow in turn, so that I in consequence fell into
the most unpleasant position with opulent and kind-hearted friends. If
I wished that all these unfortunate folks were food for the crows, my
father found himself in the situation of the _Tyro in Witchcraft_[2]
who was willing enough to see his house washed clean, but is frightened
when the flood rushes in without ceasing, over threshold and stairs.
By an excessive kindness, the quiet and moderate plan of life which my
father had designed for me was step by step interrupted and put off,
and from day to day changed contrary to all expectation. All idea of a
long visit to Ratisborn and Vienna was as good as given up; but still I
was to pass through those cities on my way to Italy, so as at least to
gain a general notion of them. On the other hand, some of my friends,
who did not approve of taking so long a circuit, in order to get into
active life, recommended that I should take advantage of a moment which
seemed in every way favorable, and think on a permanent establishment
in my native city. Although the Council were closed against me, first
by my grandfather and then by my uncle, there were yet many civil
offices to which I could lay claim, where I could remain for a time and
await the future. There were agencies of several kinds which offered
employment enough, and the place of a _chargé d'affaires_ was highly
respectable. I suffered myself to be persuaded, and believed also,
that I might adapt myself to this plan, without having tried whether I
was suited for such a mode of life and business as requires that amid
dissipation, we should most of all act for a certain end. To these
plans and designs there was now added a tender sentiment which seemed
to draw me towards a domestic life and to accelerate my determination.

[Side-note: Plans for Settling in Life.]

The society of young men and women already mentioned, which was
kept together by, if it did not owe its origin to, my sister, still
survived after her marriage and departure, because the members had
grown accustomed to each other, and could not spend one evening in
the week better than in this friendly circle. The eccentric orator
also whose acquaintance we made in the sixth book, had, after many
adventures, returned to us, more clever and more perverse than ever,
and once again played the legislator of the little state. As a sequel
to our former diversions he had devised something of the same kind; he
enacted that every week lots should be drawn, not as before to decide
what pairs should be lovers, but married couples. How lovers should
conduct themselves towards each other, he said, we knew well enough;
but of the proper deportment of husbands and wives in society we were
totally ignorant, and this, with our increasing years, we ought to
learn before all things. He laid down general rules, which, of course,
set forth that we must act as if we did not belong to each other;
that we must not sit or speak often together, much less indulge in
anything like caresses. And at the same time we were not only to avoid
everything which would occasion mutual suspicion and discord, but, on
the contrary, he was to win the greatest praises, who, with his free
and open manners should yet most endear to himself his wife.

The lots were at once drawn; some odd matches that they decided were
laughed at and joked about, and the universal marriage-comedy was begun
in good humour and renewed every week.

Now it fell out strangely enough, that from the first the same lady
fell twice to me. She was a very good creature, just such a woman
as one would like to think of as a wife. Her figure was beautiful
and well-proportioned, her face pleasing, while in her manners there
prevailed a repose which testified to the health of her mind and body.
Every day and hour she was perfectly the same. Her domestic industry
was in high repute. Though she was not talkative, a just understanding
and natural talents could be recognised in her language. To meet the
advances of such a person with friendliness and esteem was natural;
on a general principle I was already accustomed to do it, and now I
acted from a sort of traditional kindness as a social duty. But when
the lot brought us together for the third time, our jocose law-giver
declared in the most solemn manner that Heaven had spoken, and we could
not again be separated. We submitted to his sentence, and both of us
adapted ourselves so well to our public conjugal duties, that we might
really have served as a model. Since all the pairs who were severally
united for the evening, were obliged by the general rules to address
each other for the few hours with _Du_ (thou), we had, after a series
of weeks, grown so accustomed to this confidential pronoun, that even
in the intervals whenever we accidentally came together, the _Du_
would kindly come out.[3] Habit is a strange thing; by degrees both
of us found that nothing was more natural than this relation. I liked
her more and more, while her manner of treating me gave evidence of
a beautiful calm confidence, so that on many an occasion if a priest
had been present we might have been united on the spot without much
hesitation.

[Side-note: The Clavigo.]

As at each of our social gatherings something new was required to
be read aloud, I brought with me one evening a perfect novelty, The
Memoir of Beaumarchais against Clavigo, in the original. It gained
great applause. The thoughts to which it gave occasion were freely
expressed, and after much had been spoken on both sides, my partner
said: "If I were thy liege lady and not thy wife, I would entreat thee
to change this memoir into a play: it seems to me perfectly suited
for it." "That thou mayst see, my love," I replied, "that liege lady
and wife can be united in one person, I promise that, at the end of a
week, the subject-matter of this work, in the form of a piece for the
theatre, shall be read aloud, as has just been done with these pages."
They wondered at so bold a promise, but I did not delay to set about
accomplishing it. What, in such cases, is called invention, was with me
instantaneous. As I was escorting home my titulary wife I was silent.
She asked me what was the matter? "I am thinking out the play," I
answered, "and have got already into the middle of it. I wished to show
thee that I would gladly do anything to please thee." She pressed my
hand, and as I in return snatched a kiss, she said: "Thou must forget
thy character! To be loving, people think, is not proper for married
folks." "Let them think," I rejoined, "we will have it our own way."

Before I got home, and indeed I look a very circuitous route, the
piece was pretty far advanced. Lest this should seem boastful, I will
confess that previously, on the first and second reading, the subject
had appeared to me dramatic and even theatrical, but, without such a
stimulus, this piece, like so many others, would have remained among
the number of the merely possible creations. My mode of treating it is
well enough known. Weary of villains, who, from revenge, hate, or mean
purposes, attack a noble nature and ruin it, I wished, in Carlos, to
show the working of clear good sense, associated with true friendship,
against passion, inclination and outward necessity; in order, for once,
to compose a tragedy in this way. Availing myself of the example of our
patriarch Shakspeare, I did not hesitate for a moment to translate,
word for word, the chief scene, and all that was properly dramatic in
the original. Finally, for the conclusion, I borrowed the end of an
English ballad, and so I was ready before the Friday came. The good
effect which I attained in the reading will easily be believed. My
liege spouse took not a little pleasure in it, and it seemed as if,
by this production, as an intellectual offspring, our union was drawn
closer and dearer.

Mephistopheles Merck here did me, for the first time, a great injury.
When I communicated, the piece to him he answered: "You must write
hereafter no more such trifles; others can do such things." In this he
was wrong. We should not, in all things, transcend the notions which
men have already formed; it is good that much should be in accordance
with the common way of thinking. Had I at that time written a dozen
such pieces, which with a little stimulus would have been easy enough,
three or four of them would perhaps have retained a place on the stage.
Every theatrical manager who knows the value of a repertoire, can say
what an advantage that would have been.

By these, and other intellectual diversions, our whimsical game of
marriage became a family story, if not the talk of the town, which
did not sound disagreeably in the ears of the mothers of our fair
ones. My mother, also, was not at all opposed to such an event; she
had before looked with favor on the lady with whom I had fallen into
so strange a relation, and did not doubt that she would make as good
a daughter-in-law as a wife. The aimless bustle in which I had for
some time lived was not to her mind, and, in fact, she had to bear the
worst of it. It was her part to provide abundant entertainment for the
stream of guests, without any compensation for furnishing quarters to
this literary army, other than the honor they did her son by feasting
upon him. Besides, it was clear to her that so many young persons--all
of them without property--united not only for scientific and poetic
purposes, but also for that of passing the time in the gayest manner,
would soon become a burthen and injury to themselves, and most
certainly to me, whose thoughtless generosity and passion for becoming
security for others she too well knew.

Accordingly, she looked on the long-planned Italian journey, which my
father once more brought forward, as the best means of cutting short
all these connexions at once. But, in order that no new danger might
spring up in the wide world, she intended first of all to bind fast
the union which had already been suggested, so as to make a return
into my native country more desirable, and my final determination more
decided. "Whether I only attribute this scheme to her, or whether she
had actually formed it with her departed friend, I am not quite sure;
enough, that her actions seemed to be based on a well-digested plan.
I had very often to hear from her a regret that since Cornelia's
marriage our family circle was altogether too small; it was felt that
I had lost a sister, my mother an assistant, and my father a pupil;
nor was this all that was said. It happened, as if by accident, that
my parents met the lady on a walk, invited her into the garden, and
conversed with her for a long time. Thereupon there was some pleasantry
at tea-table, and the remark was made with a certain satisfaction that
she had pleased my father, as she possessed all the chief qualities
which he as a connoisseur of women required.

[Side-note: Preparations for my Wedding.]

One thing after another was now arranged in our first story, as if
guests were expected; the linen was reviewed, and some hitherto
neglected furniture was thought of. One day I surprised my mother in a
garret examining the old cradles, among which an immense one of walnut
inlaid with ivory and ebony, in which I had formerly been rocked, was
especially prominent. She did not seem altogether pleased when I said
to her, that such swing-boxes were quite out of fashion, and that now
people put babies, with free limbs, into a neat little basket, and
carried them about for show, by a strap over the shoulder, like other
small wares.

Enough;--such prognostics of a renewal of domestic activity became
frequent, and, as I was in every way submissive, the thought of a state
which would last through life spread a peace over our house and its
inhabitants such as had not been enjoyed for a long time.[4]



[1] There are two words used for "skate." One of them _Schlittschuh_,
means "sledge-shoe;" the other _Schrittschuch_, means "stride-shoe."
Göthe and his friends make use of the former; Klopstock contends for
the latter.

[2] The allusion, is to Göthe's own poem "Der Zauberlehrling."

[3] Members of the same family address each other with the second
person singular, "Du" instead of the more formal third person plural,
"Sie." In the same way the French employ "Tu" instead of "Vous."
_Trans._

[4] The following note is prefixed by the author to the last portion of
this work.

Preface. In treating a life's story, progressing in many different
ways, like this which we have ventured to undertake, it is necessary,
in order to be intelligible and readable, that some parts of it,
connected in time should be separated, whilst others which can only
be understood by a connected treatment must be brought together: and
the whole be so arranged in sections that the reader inspecting it
intelligently may form an opinion on it, and appropriate a good deal
for his own use.

We open the present volume with this reflexion, that it may help to
justify our mode of proceeding: and we add the request that our readers
will note that the narrative here continued does not exactly fit on to
the end of the preceding book, though the intention is to gather up
again the main threads one by one, and to bring on the personages as
well as the thoughts and actions in a virtually complete sequence.




PART THE FOURTH.


NEMO CONTRA DEUM NISI DEUS IPSE.




SIXTEENTH BOOK.


What people commonly say of misfortunes: that they never come alone:
may with almost as much truth be said also of good fortune, and,
indeed, of other circumstances which often cluster around us in a
harmonious way; whether it he by a kind of fatality, or whether it be
that man has the power of attracting to himself all mutually related
things.

At any rate, my present experience shewed me everything conspiring to
produce an outward and an inward peace. The former came to me while I
resolved patiently to await the result of what others were meditating
and designing for me; the latter, however, I had to attain for myself
by renewing former studies.

I had not thought of Spinoza for a long time, and now I was driven
to him by an attack upon him. In our library I found a little
book, the author of which railed violently against that original
thinker; and to go the more effectually to work, had inserted for
a frontispiece a picture of Spinoza himself, with the inscription:
"_Signum reprobationis in vultu gerens_" bearing on his face the stamp
of reprobation. This there was no gainsaying, indeed, so long as one
looked at the picture; for the engraving was wretchedly bad, a perfect
caricature; so that I could not help thinking of those adversaries who,
when they conceive a dislike to any one, first of all misrepresent him,
and then assail the monster of their own creation.

This little book, however, made no impression upon me, since generally
I did not like controversial works, but preferred always to learn
from the author himself how he did think, than to hear from another
how he ought to have thought. Still, curiosity led me to the article
"Spinoza," in Bayle's Dictionary, a work as valuable for its learning
and acuteness as it is ridiculous and pernicious by its gossiping and
scandal.

[Side-note: Spinoza - His Principles.]

The article "Spinoza" excited in me displeasure and mistrust. In the
first place, the philosopher is represented as an atheist, and his
opinions as most abominable; but immediately afterwards it is confessed
that he was a calmly reflecting man, devoted to his studies, a good
citizen, a sympathizing neighbour, and a peaceable individual. The
writer seemed to me to have quite forgotten the words of the gospel:
"By their fruits ye shall know them," for how could a life pleasing in
the sight of God and man spring from corrupt principles?

I well remembered what peace of mind and clearness of ideas came over
me when I first turned over the posthumous works of that remarkable
man. The effect itself was still quite distinct to my mind, though I
could not recall the particulars; I therefore speedily had recourse
again to the work? to which I had owed so much, and again the same calm
air breathed over me. I gave myself up to this reading, and believed,
while I looked into myself, that I had never before so clearly seen
through the world.

As, on this subject, there always has been, and still is even in these
later times, so much controversy, I would not wish to be misunderstood,
and therefore I make here a few remarks upon these so much feared, yea,
abhorred views.

Our physical as well as our social life, manners, customs, worldly
wisdom, philosophy, religion, and many an accidental event, all call
upon us, _to deny ourselves._ Much that is most inwardly peculiar to
us we are not allowed to develope; much that we need from without for
the completion of our character is withheld; while, on the other hand,
so much is forced upon us which is as alien to us as it is burdensome.
We are robbed of all that we have laboriously acquired for ourselves,
or friendly circumstances have bestowed upon us; and before we can
see clearly what we are, we find ourselves compelled to part with
our personality, piece by piece, till at last it is gone altogether.
Indeed, the case is so universal that it seems a law of society to
despise a man who shows himself surly on that account. On the contrary,
the bitterer the cup we have to drink, the more pleasant face must one
make, in order that composed lookers on may not be offended by the
least grimace.

To solve this painful problem, however, nature has endowed man with
ample power, activity, and endurance. But especially is he aided
therein by his volatility (_Leichtsinn_), a boon to man, which nothing
can take away. By its means he is able to renounce the cherished object
of the moment, if only the next presents him something new to reach at;
and thus he goes on unconsciously, remodelling his whole life. We are
continually putting one passion in the place of another; employments,
inclinations, tastes, hobbies--we try them all, only to exclaim at
last, All is vanity. No one is shocked by this false and murmuring
speech; nay, every one thinks, while he says it, that he is uttering
a wise and indisputable maxim. A few men there are, and only a few,
who anticipate this insupportable feeling, and avoid all calls to such
partial resignation by one grand act of total self-renunciation.

Such men convince themselves of the Eternal, the Necessary, and
of Immutable Law, and seek to form to themselves ideas which are
incorruptible, nay which observation of the Perishable does not shake,
but rather confirms. But since in this there is something superhuman,
such persons are commonly esteemed _in_-human, without a God and
without a World. People hardly know what sort of horns and claws to
give them.

My confidence in Spinoza rested on the serene effect he wrought in me,
and it only increased when I found my worthy mystics were accused of
Spinozism, and learned that even Leibnitz himself could not escape the
charge; nay, that Boerhaave, being suspected of similar sentiments, had
to abandon Theology for Medicine.

But let no one think that I would have subscribed to his writings,
and assented to them _verbatim et literatim._ For, that no one really
understands another; that no one attaches the same idea to the same
word which another does; that a dialogue, a book, excites in different
persons different trains of thought:--this I had long seen all too
plainly; and the reader will trust the assertion of the author of Faust
and Werther, that deeply experienced in such misunderstandings, he was
never so presumptuous as to think that he understood perfectly a man,
who, as the scholar of Descartes, raised himself, through mathematical
and rabbinical studies, to the highest reach of thought; and whose name
even at this day seems to mark the limit of all speculative efforts.

How much I appropriated from Spinoza, would be seen distinctly enough,
if the visit of the "Wandering Jew," to Spinoza, which I had devised as
a worthy ingredient for that poem, existed in writing. But it pleased
me so much in the conception, and I found so much delight in meditating
on it in silence, that I never could bring myself to the point of
writing it out. Thus the notion, which would have been well enough as a
passing joke, expanded itself until it lost its charm, and I banished
it from my mind as something troublesome. The chief points, however,
of what I owed to my study of Spinoza, so far as they have remained
indelibly impressed on my mind, and have exercised a great influence
on the subsequent course of my life, I will now unfold as briefly and
succinctly as possible.

[Side-note: Influence of Spinoza.]

Nature works after such eternal, necessary, dime laws, that the Deity
himself could alter nothing in them. In this belief, all men are
unconsciously agreed. Think only how a natural phenomenon, which should
intimate any degree of understanding, reason, or even of caprice, would
instantly astonish and terrify us.

If anything like reason shows itself in brutes, it is long before
we can recover from our amazement; for, although they stand so near
to us, they nevertheless seem to be divided from us by an infinite
gulf, and to belong altogether to the kingdom of necessity. It is
therefore impossible to take it ill if some thinkers have pronounced
the infinitely ingenious, but strictly limited, organisation of those
creatures, to be thoroughly mechanical.

If we turn to plants, our position is still more strikingly confirmed.
How unaccountable is the feeling which seizes an observer upon seeing
the _Mimosa_, as soon as it is touched, fold together in pairs its
downy leaves, and finally clap down its little stalk as if upon a
joint (_Gewerbe_). Still higher rises that feeling, to which I will
give no name, at the sight of the _Hedysarum Gyrans_, which without
any apparent outward occasion moves up and down its little leaves,
and seems to play with itself as with our thoughts. Let us imagine a
_Banana_, suddenly endowed with a similar capacity, so that of itself
it could by turns let down and lift up again its huge leafy canopy;
who would not, upon seeing it the first time, start back in terror? So
rooted within us is the idea of our own superiority, that we absolutely
refuse to concede to the outward world any part or portion in it; nay,
if we could, we would too often withhold such advantages from our
fellows.

On the other hand, a similar horror seizes upon us, when we see a man
unreasonably opposing universally recognised moral laws, or unwisely
acting against the interest of himself and others. To get rid of the
repugnance which we feel on such occasions, we convert it at once into
censure or detestation, and we seek either in reality or in thought to
get free from such a man.

This contrariety between Reason and Necessity, which Spinoza threw out
in so strong a light, I, strangely enough, applied to my own being;
and what has been said is, properly speaking, only for the purpose of
rendering intelligible what follows.

I had come to look upon my indwelling poetic talent altogether as
Nature; the more so, as I had always been impelled to regard outward
Nature as its proper object. The exercise of this poetic gift could
indeed be excited and determined by circumstances; but its most joyful,
its richest action was spontaneous-nay, even involuntary.

    Through field and forest roaming,
    My little songs still humming,
     So went it all day long.

In my nightly vigils the same thing happened; I therefore often wished,
like one of my predecessors, to get me a leathern jerkin made, and to
accustom myself to write in the dark so as to be able to fix down at
once all such unpremeditated effusions. So frequently had it happened
that after composing a little piece in my head I could not recall it,
that I would now hurry to the desk and, at one standing, write off the
poem from beginning to end, and as I could not spare time to adjust
my paper, however obliquely it might lie, the lines often crossed it
diagonally. In such a mood I liked best to get hold of a lead pencil,
because I could write most readily with it; whereas the scratching and
spluttering of the pen would sometimes wake me from my somnambular
poetizing, confuse me, and stifle a little conception in its birth.
For the poems thus created I had a particular reverence; for I felt
towards them somewhat as the hen does towards her chickens, which
she sees hatched and chirping about her. My old whim of making known
these things only by means of private readings, now returned to me: to
exchange them for money seemed to me detestable.

[Side-note: Himburg - The Piratical Bookseller.]

And this suggests to me to mention in the present place a little
incident, which however did not take place till some time after. When
the demand for my works had increased and a collected edition of
them was much called for, these feelings held me back from preparing
it myself; Himburg, however, took advantage of my hesitation, and I
unexpectedly received one day several copies of my collected works in
print. With cool audacity this unauthorized publisher even boasted of
having done me a public service, and offered to send me, if I wished,
some Berlin porcelain by way of compensation. His offer served to
remind me of the law which compelled the Jews of Berlin, when they
married, to purchase a certain quantity of porcelain, in order to keep
up the sale of the Royal manufacture. The contempt which was shewn for
the shameless pirate, led me to suppress the indignation which I could
not but feel at such a robbery. I gave him no reply; and while he was
making himself very comfortable with my property, I revenged myself in
silence with the following verses:--

    Records of the years once dream'd away,
    Long fallen hairs, and flow'rs that shew decay,
    Faded ribbons, veils so lightly wove,
    The mournful pledges of a vanished love;
    Things that to the flames should long have gone,
    --Saucy Sosias snatches every one.
    Just as though he were the heir to claim,
    Lawfully the poets' works and fame.
    And to make the owner full amends
    Paltry tea and coffee-cups he sends!
    Take your china back, your gingerbread!
    For all Himburgs living I am dead.

This very Nature, however, which thus spontaneously brought forth
so many longer and smaller works, was subject to long pauses, and
for considerable periods I was unable, even when I most wished it,
to produce anything, and consequently often suffered from ennui.
The perception of such contrasts within me gave rise to the thought
whether, on the other hand, it would not be my wisest course to employ
for my own and others' profit and advantage, the human, rational, and
intellectual part of my being, and as I already had done, and as I
now felt myself more and more called upon to do, devote the intervals
when Nature ceased to influence me, to worldly occupations, and thus
to leave no one of my faculties unused. This course, which seemed to
be dictated by those general ideas before described, was so much in
harmony with my character and my position in life, that I resolved
to adopt it and by this means to check the wavering and hesitation
to which I had hitherto been subject. Very pleasant was it to me
to reflect, that thus for actual service to my fellow men, I might
demand a substantial reward, while on the other hand I might go on
disinterestedly spending that lovely gift of nature as a sacred thing.
By this consideration I guarded against the bitterness of feeling
which might have arisen when circumstances should force upon the
remark that precisely this talent, so courted and admired in Germany,
was treated as altogether beyond the pale of the law and of justice.
For not only were piracies considered perfectly allowable, and even
comical in Berlin, but the estimable Margrave of Baden, so praised for
his administrative virtues, and the Emperor Joseph who had justified
so many hopes, lent their sanction, one to his Macklot, and the other
to his honorable noble _von Trattner_; and it was declared, that the
rights, as well as the property of genius, should be left at the
absolute mercy of the trade.

One day, when we were complaining of this to a visitor from Baden, he
told us the following story: Her ladyship the Margravine, being a very
active lady, had established a paper-manufactory; but the paper was so
bad, that it was impossible to dispose of it. Thereupon Mr. bookseller
Macklot proposed, if he were permitted to print the German poets and
prose writers, he would use this paper, and thus enhance its value. The
proposition was adopted with avidity.

Of course, we pronounced this malicious piece of scandal to be a
mere fabrication; but found our pleasure in it notwithstanding. The
name of Macklot became a by-word at the time, and was applied by us
to all mean transactions. And, a versatile youth, often reduced to
borrowing himself, while others' meanness was making itself rich upon
his talents, felt himself sufficiently compensated by a couple of good
jokes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Children and youths wander on in a sort of happy intoxication, which
betrays itself especially in the fact, that the good, innocent
creatures are scarcely able to notice, and still less to understand,
the ever changing state of things around them. They regard the world
as raw material which they must shape, as a treasure which they must
take possession of. Everything they seem to think belongs to them,
everything must be subservient to their will; indeed, on this account,
the greater part lose themselves in a wild uncontrollable temper.
With the better part, however, this tendency unfolds itself into a
moral enthusiasm, which, occasionally moves of its own accord after
some actual or seeming good, but still oftener suffers itself to be
prompted, led, and even misled.

Such was the case with the youth of whom we are at present speaking,
and if he appeared rather strange to mankind, still he seemed welcome
to many. At the very first meeting you found in him a freedom from
reserve, a cheerful open-heartedness in conversation, and in action the
unpremeditated suggestions of the moment. Of the latter trait a story
or two.

[Side-note: A Scene at a Fire.]

In the close-built Jews' street (_Judengasse_), a violent conflagration
had broken out. My universal benevolence, which prompted me to lend my
active aid to all, led me to the spot, full dressed as I was. A passage
had been broken through from All Saints' street (_Allerheiligengasse_),
and thither I repaired. I found a great number of men busied with
carrying water, rushing forward with full buckets, and back again with
empty ones. I soon saw that, by forming a lane for passing up and
down the buckets, the help we rendered might be doubled. I seized two
full buckets and remained standing and called others to me; those who
came on were relieved of their load, while those returning arranged
themselves in a row on the other side. The arrangement was applauded,
my address and personal sympathy found favor, and the lane, unbroken
from its commencement to its burning goal, was soon completed.
Scarcely, however, had the cheerfulness which this inspired, called
forth a joyous, I might even say, a merry humor in this living machine,
all of whose party worked well together, when wantonness began to
appear, and was soon succeeded by a love of mischief. The wretched
fugitives, dragging off their miserable substance upon their backs, if
they once got within the lane, must pass on without stopping, and if
they ventured to halt for a moment's rest, were immediately assailed.
Saucy boys would sprinkle them with the water, and even add insult
to misery. However, by means of gentle words and eloquent reproofs,
prompted perhaps by a regard to my best clothes, which were in danger,
I managed to put a stop to their rudeness.

Some of my friends had from curiosity approached, to gaze on the
calamity, and seemed astonished to see their companion, in thin shoes
and silk stockings--for that was then the fashion-engaged in this wet
business. But few of them could I persuade to join us; the others
laughed and shook their heads. We stood our ground, however, a long
while, for, if any were tired and went away, there were plenty ready to
take their places. Many sight-seers, too, came merely for the sake of
the spectacle, and so my innocent daring became universally known, and
the strange disregard of etiquette became the town-talk of the day.

This readiness to do any action that a good-natured whim might prompt,
which proceeded from a happy self-consciousness which men are apt to
blame as vanity, made our friend to be talked of for other oddities.

A very inclement winter had completely covered the Main with ice, and
converted it into a solid floor. The liveliest intercourse, both for
business and pleasure, was kept up on the ice. Boundless skating-paths,
and wide, smooth frozen plains, swarmed with a moving multitude. I
never failed to be there early in the morning, and once, being lightly
clad, felt myself nearly frozen through by the time that my mother
arrived, who usually came at a later hour to visit the scene. She sat
in the carriage, in her purple-velvet and fur-trimmed cloak, which,
held together on her breast by a strong golden cord and tassel, looked
quite fine. "Give me your furs, dear mother!" I cried out on the
instant, without a moment's thought, "I am terribly frozen." She, too,
did not stop to think, and so in a moment I was wrapped in her cloak.
Beaching half-way below my knees with its purple-colour, sable-border,
and gold trimmings, it contrasted not badly with the brown fur cap
I wore. Thus clad, I carelessly went on skating up and down; the
crowd was so great that no especial notice was taken of my strange
appearance; still it was not unobserved, for often afterwards it was
brought up, in jest or in earnest, among my other eccentricities.

       *       *       *       *       *

Leaving these recollections of happy and spontaneous action, we will
now resume the sober thread of our narrative.

A witty Frenchman has said: If a clever man has once attracted the
attention of the public by any meritorious work, every one does his
best to prevent his ever doing a similar thing again.

It is even so: something good and spirited is produced in the quiet
seclusion of youth; applause is won, but independence is lost; the
concentrated talent is pulled about and distracted, because people
think that they may pluck off and appropriate to themselves a portion
of the personality.

It was owing to this that I received a great many invitations, or,
rather, not exactly invitations: a Mend, an acquaintance would propose,
with even more than urgency, to introduce me here or there.

The _quasi_ stranger, now described as a bear on account of his
frequent surly refusals, and then again like Voltaire's Huron, or
Cumberland's West Indian, as a child of nature in spite of many
talents, excited curiosity, and in various families negotiations were
set on foot to see him.

[Side-note: Introduction to Lili.]

Among others, a friend one evening entreated me to go with him to
a little concert to be given in the house of an eminent merchant
of the reformed persuasion. It was already late; but as I loved to
do everything on the spur of the moment, I went with him, decently
dressed, as usual. We entered a chamber on the ground floor,--the
ordinary but spacious sitting-room of the family. The company was
numerous, a piano stood in the middle, at which the only daughter of
the house sat down immediately, and played with considerable facility
and grace. I stood at the lower end of the piano, that I might be near
enough to observe her form and bearing; there was something childlike
in her manner; the movements she was obliged to make in playing were
unconstrained and easy.

After the sonata was finished, she stepped towards the end of the piano
to meet me; we merely saluted, however, without further conversation,
for a quartet had already commenced. At the close of it, I moved
somewhat nearer and uttered some civil compliment; telling her what
pleasure it gave me that my first acquaintance with her should have
also made me acquainted with her talent. She managed to make a very
clever reply, and kept her position as I did mine. I saw that she
observed me closely, and that I was really standing for a show; but I
took it all in good part, since I had something graceful to look at in
my turn. Meanwhile, we gazed on one another, and I will not deny that
I was sensible of feeling an attractive power of the gentlest kind.
The moving about of the company, and her performances, prevented any
further approach that evening. But I must confess that I was anything
but displeased, when, on taking leave, the mother gave me to understand
that they hoped soon to see me again, while the daughter seemed to
join in the request with some friendliness of manner. I did not fail,
at suitable intervals, to repeat my visit, since, on such occasions, I
was sure of a cheerful and intellectual conversation, which seemed to
prophesy no tie of passion.

In the meantime, the hospitality of our house once laid open caused
many an inconvenience to my good parents and myself. At any rate it had
not proved in any way beneficial to my steadfast desire to notice the
Higher, to study it, to further it, and if possible to imitate it. Men,
I saw, so far as they were good, were pious; and, so far as they were
active, were unwise and oftentimes unapt. The former could not help me,
and the latter only confused me. One remarkable case I have carefully
written down.

[Side-note: Jung or Stilling.]

In the beginning of the year 1775, Jung, afterwards called Stilling,
from the Lower Rhine, announced to us that he was coming to Frankfort,
being invited as an oculist, to treat an important case; the news was
welcome to my parents and myself, and we offered him quarters.

Herr von Lersner, a worthy man advanced in years, universally esteemed
for his success in the education and training of princely children,
and for his intelligent manners at court and on his travels, had been
long afflicted with total blindness; his strong hope of obtaining some
relief of his affliction was not entirely extinct. Now, for several
years past, Jung, with much courage and modest boldness, had, in the
Lower Rhine, successfully couched for the cataract, and thus had gained
a wide-spread reputation. The candor of his soul, his truth fulness
of character, and genuine piety, gained him universal confidence; this
extended up the river through the medium of various parties connected
by business. Herr von Lersner and his friends, upon the advice of an
intelligent physician, resolved to send for the successful oculist,
although a Frankfort merchant, in whose case the cure had failed,
earnestly endeavored to dissuade them. But what was a single failure
against so many successful cases! So Jung came, enticed by the hope of
a handsome remuneration, which heretofore he had been accustomed to
renounce; he came, to increase his imputation, full of confidence and
in high spirits, and we congratulated ourselves on the prospect of such
an excellent and lively table-companion.

At last, after a preparatory course of medicine, the cataract upon both
eyes was couched. Expectation was at its height. It was said that the
patient saw the moment after the operation, until the bandage again
shut out the light. But it was remarked that Jung was not cheerful, and
that something weighed on his spirits; indeed, on further inquiry he
confessed to me that he was uneasy as to the result of the operation.
Commonly, for I had witnessed several operations of the kind in
Strasburg, nothing in the world seemed easier than such cases; and
Stilling himself had operated successfully a hundred times. After
piercing the insensible cornea, which gave no pain, the dull lens
would, at the slightest pressure, spring forward of itself; the patient
immediately discerned objects, and only had to wait with bandaged eyes,
until the completed cure should allow him to use the precious organ at
his own will and convenience. How many a poor man, for whom Jung had
procured this happiness, had invoked God's blessing and reward upon
his benefactor, which was now to be realized by means of this wealthy
patient!

Jung confessed to me that this time the operation had not gone off so
easily and so successfully; the lens had not sprung forward, he had
been obliged to draw it out, and indeed, as it had grown to the socket,
to loosen it; and this he was not able to do without violence. He now
reproached himself for having operated also on the other eye. But
Lersner and his friends had firmly resolved to have both couched at the
same time, and when the emergency occurred, they did not immediately
recover presence of mind enough to think what was best. Suffice it to
say, the second lens also did not spontaneously spring forward; but had
to be loosened and drawn out with difficulty.

How much pain our benevolent, good-natured, pious friend felt in
this case, it is impossible to describe or to unfold; some general
observations on his state of mind will not be out of place here.

To labor for his own moral culture, is the simplest and most
practicable thing which man can propose to himself; the impulse is
inborn in him; while in social life both reason and love, prompt or
rather force him to do so.

Stilling could only live in a moral religious atmosphere of love;
without sympathy, without hearty response, he could not exist; he
demanded mutual attachment; where he was not known, he was silent;
where he was only known, not loved, he was sad; accordingly he got on
best with those well-disposed persons, who can set themselves down for
life in their assigned vocation and go to work to perfect themselves in
their narrow but peaceful sphere.

Such persons succeed pretty well in stifling vanity, in renouncing the
pursuit of outward power, in acquiring a circumspect way of speaking,
and in preserving a uniformly friendly manner towards companions and
neighbors.

Frequently we may observe in this class traces of a certain form of
mental character, modified by individual varieties; such persons,
accidentally excited, attach great weight to the course of their
experience; they consider everything a supernatural determination, in
the conviction that God interferes immediately with the course of the
world.

With all this there is associated a certain disposition to abide in
his present state, and yet at the same time to allow themselves to be
pushed or led on; which results from a certain indecision to act of
themselves. The latter is increased by the miscarriage of the wisest
plans, as well as by the accidental success brought about by the
unforeseen concurrence of favorable occurrences.

Now, since a vigilant manly character is much checked by this way of
life, it is well worthy of reflection and inquiry, how men are most
liable to fall into such a state.

The things sympathetic persons of this kind love most to talk of,
are the so-called awakenings and conversions, to which we will not
deny a certain psychological value. They are properly what we call in
scientific and poetic matters, an "_aperçu_;" the perception of a great
maxim, which is always a genius-like operation of the mind; we arrive
at it by pure intuition, that is, by reflection, neither by learning
or tradition. In the cases before us it is the perception of the moral
power, which anchors in faith, and thus feels itself in proud security
in the midst of the waves.

Such an _aperçu_ gives the discoverer the greatest joy, because, in an
original manner, it points to the infinite; it requires no length of
time to work conviction; it leaps forth whole and complete in a moment;
hence the quaint old French rhyme:

    En peu d'heure
    Dieu labeure.

Outward occasions often work violently in bringing about such
conversions, and then people think they see in them signs and wonders.

[Side-note: Stilling.]

Love and confidence bound me most heartily to Stilling; I had moreover
exercised a good and happy influence on his life, and it was quite in
accordance with his disposition, to treasure up in a tender grateful
heart the remembrance of all that had ever been done for him; but in
my existing frame of mind and pursuits his society neither benefited
nor cheered me. I was glad to let every one interpret as he pleased
and work out the riddle of his days, but this way of ascribing to ail
immediate divine influence, all the good that after a rational manner
occurs to us in our chanceful life, seemed to me too presumptuous;
and the habit of regarding the painful consequences of the hasty
acts and omissions of our own thoughtlessness or conceit, as a dime
chastisement, did not at all suit me. I could, therefore, only listen
to my good friend, but could not give him any very encouraging reply;
still I readily suffered him, like so many others, to go his own way,
and defended him since then, as well as before, when others, of too
worldly a mind, did not hesitate to wound his gentle nature. Thus I
never allowed a roguish remark to come to his ears, made by a waggish
man who once very earnestly exclaimed: "No! indeed, if I were as
intimate with God as Jung is, I would never pray to the Most High for
gold, but for wisdom and good counsel, that I might not make so many
blunders which cost money, and draw after them wretched years of debt."

In truth, it was no time for such jests. Between hope and fear several
more days passed away; with him the latter grew, the former waned, and,
at last, vanished altogether; the eyes of the good patient man had
become inflamed, and there remained no doubt that the operation had
failed.

The state of mind to which our friend was reduced hereby, is not to
be described; he was struggling against the deepest and worst kind of
despair. For what was there now that he had not lost! In the first
place, the warm thanks of one restored to sight--the noblest reward
which a physician can enjoy; then the confidence of others similarly
needing help; then his worldly credit, while the interruption of his
peculiar practice would reduce his family to a helpless state. In
short, we played the mournful drama of Job through from beginning to
end, since the faithful Jung took himself the part of the reproving
friends. He chose to regard this calamity as the punishment of his
former faults; it seemed to him that in taking his accidental discovery
of an eye-cure as a divine call to that business, he had acted wickedly
and profanely; he reproached himself for not having thoroughly studied
this highly important department, instead of lightly trusting his cures
to good fortune; what his enemies had said of him recurred again to his
mind; he began to doubt whether perhaps it was not all true? and it
pained him the more deeply when he found that in the course of his life
he had been guilty of that levity which is so dangerous to pious men,
and also of presumption and vanity. In such moments he lost himself,
and in whatever light we might endeavour to set the matter, we, at
last, elicited from him only the rational and necessary conclusion that
the ways of God are unsearchable.

My unceasing efforts to be cheerful, would have been more checked by
Jung's visit, if I had not, according to my usual habit, subjected his
state of mind to an earnest friendly examination, and explained it
after my own fashion. It vexed me not a little to see my good mother
so poorly rewarded for her domestic care and pains-taking, though
she did not herself perceive it, with her usual equanimity and ever
bustling activity. I was most pained for my father. On my account he,
with a good grace, had enlarged what hitherto had been a strictly
close and private circle, and at table especially, where the presence
of strangers attracted familiar friends and even passing visitors, he
liked to indulge in a merry, even paradoxical conversation, in which
I put him in good humor and drew from him many an approving smile, by
all sorts of dialectic pugilism: for I had an ungodly way of disputing
everything, which, however, I pertinaciously kept up in every case so
long only as he, who maintained the right, was not yet made perfectly
ridiculous. During the last few weeks, however, this procedure was not
to be thought of; for many very happy and most cheering incidents,
occasioned by some successful secondary cures on the part of our
friend, who had been made so miserable by the failure of his principal
attempt, did not affect him, much less did they give his gloomy mood
another turn.

[Side-note: Stilling's Jew Patient.]

One incident in particular was most amusing. Among Jung's patients
there was a blind old Jewish beggar, who had come from Isenburg to
Frankfort, where in the extremity of wretchedness, he scarcely found
a shelter, scarcely the meanest food and attendance; nevertheless his
tough oriental nature helped him through and he was in raptures to find
himself healed perfectly and without the least suffering. When asked
if the operation pained him, he said, in his hyperbolical manner, "If
I had a million eyes, I would let them all be operated upon, one after
the other, for half a _Kopfstück._"[1] On his departure he acted quite
as eccentrically in the _Fahrgasse_ (or main thoroughfare); he thanked
God, and in good old testament style, praised the Lord and the wondrous
man whom He had sent. Shouting this he walked, slowly on through the
long busy street towards the bridge. Buyers and sellers ran out of
the shops, surprised by this singular exhibition of pious enthusiasm,
passionately venting itself before all the world, and he excited their
sympathy to such a degree, that, without asking anything, he was amply
furnished with gifts for his travelling expenses.

This lively incident, however, could hardly be mentioned in our
circle; for though the poor wretch, with all his domestic misery, in
his sandy home beyond the Main, could still be counted extremely happy;
the man of wealth and dignity on this side of the river, for whom we
were most interested, had missed the priceless relief so confidently
expected.

It was sickening, therefore, to our good Jung to receive the thousand
guilders, which, being stipulated in any case, were honorably paid by
the high-minded sufferer. This ready money was destined to liquidate,
on his return, a portion of the debts, which added their burden to
other sad and unhappy circumstances.

And so he went off inconsolable, for he could not help thinking of his
meeting with his care-worn wife, the changed manner of her parents,
who, as sureties for so many debts of this too confiding man, might,
however well-wishing, consider they had made a great mistake in the
choice of a partner for their daughter. In this and that house,
from this and that window, he could already see the scornful and
contemptuous looks of those who even when he was prospering, had
wished him no good; while the thought of a practice interrupted by his
absence, and likely to be materially damaged by his failure, troubled
him extremely.

And so we took our leave of him, not without all hope on our parts; for
his strong nature, sustained by faith in supernatural aid, could not
but inspire his friends with a quiet and moderate confidence.


[1] A coin, with the head of the sovereign stamped upon it, generally
worth 4 1/2 good groschen.--_Trans._




SEVENTEENTH BOOK.


In resuming the history of my relation to Lili*, I have to mention the
many very pleasant hours I spent in her society, partly in the presence
of her mother, partly alone with her. On the strength of my writings,
people gave me credit for knowledge of the human heart, as it was then
called, and in this view our conversations were morally interesting in
every way.

But how could we talk of such inward matters without coming to mutual
disclosures? It was not long before, in a quiet hour, Lili told me
the history of her youth. She had grown up in the enjoyment of all
the advantages of society and worldly comforts. She described to me
her brothers, her relations, and all her nearest connexions; only her
mother was kept in a respectful obscurity.

Little weaknesses, too, were thought of; and among them she could
not deny, that she had often remarked in herself a certain gift of
attracting others, with which, at the same time, was united a certain
peculiarity of letting them go again. By prattling on we thus came at
last to the important point, that she had exercised this gift upon me
too, but had been punished for it, since she had been attracted by me
also.

These confessions flowed forth from so pure and childlike a nature,
that by them she made me entirely her own.

We were now necessary to each other, we had grown into the habit of
seeing each other; but how many a day, how many an evening till far
into the night, should I have had to deny myself her company, if I had
not reconciled myself to seeing her in her own circles! This was a
source of manifold pain to me.

My relation to her was that of a character to a character--I looked
upon her as, to a beautiful, amiable, highly accomplished daughter;
it was like my earlier attachments, but was of a still higher kind.
Of outward circumstances, however, of the interchange of social
relations, I had never thought. An irresistible longing reigned in me;
I could not be without her, nor she without me; but from the circle
which surrounded her, and through the interference of its individual
members, how many days were spoiled, how many hours wasted.

The history of pleasure parties which ended in displeasure; a
retarding brother, whom I was to accompany, who would however always
be stopping to do some business or other which perhaps somewhat
maliciously he was in no hurry to finish, and would thereby spoil the
whole well-concerted plan for a meeting, and ever so much more of
accident and disappointment, of impatience and privation,--all these
little troubles, which, circumstantially set forth in a romance, would
certainly find sympathizing readers, I must here omit. However, to
bring this merely contemplative account nearer to a living experience
to a youthful sympathy, I may insert some songs, which are indeed well
known but are perhaps especially impressive in this place.

    Heart, my heart, O, what hath changed thee?
      What doth weigh on thee so sore?
    What hath from myself estranged thee.
      That I scarcely know thee more?
    Gone is all which once seemed dearest,
    Gone the care which once was nearest
      Gone thy toils and tranquil bliss,
    Ah! how couldst thou come to this?

    Does that bloom so fresh and youthful,--
      That divine and lovely form,--
    That sweet look, so good and truthful.
      Bind thee with resistless charm?
    If I swear no more to see her,
    If I man myself, and flee her,
      Soon I find my efforts vain
      Forc'd to seek her once again.

    She with magic thread has bound me,
      That defies my strength or skill,
    She has drawn a circle round me,
      Holds me fast against my will.
    Cruel maid, her charms enslave me,
    I must live as she would have me,
      Ah! how great the change to me!
      Love! when wilt thou set mo free!

    With resistless power why dost thou press me
      Into scenes so bright?
    Had I not--good youth--so much to bless me
      In the lonely night?

    In my little chamber close I found me,
      In the moon's cold beams;
    And their quivering light fell softly round me.
      While I lay in dreams.

    And by hours of pure, unmingled pleasure,
      All my dreams were blest,
    While I felt her image, as a treasure,
      Deep within my breast.

    Is it I, she at the table places,
      'Mid so many lights?
    Yes, to meet intolerable faces,
      She her slave invites.

    Ah! the Spring's fresh fields no longer cheer me,
      Flowers no sweetness bring;
    Angel, where thou art, all sweets are near me,--
      Love, Nature, and Spring.

Whoever reads these songs attentively to himself or better still, sings
them with feeling, will certainly feel a breath of the fulness of those
happy hours stealing over him.

But we will not take leave of that greater, and more brilliant society,
without adding some further remarks, especially to explain the close of
the second poem.

[Side-note: Lili's Soirées.]

She, whom I was only accustomed to see in a simple dress which was
seldom changed, now stood before me on such occasions in all the
splendor of elegant fashion, and still she was the same. Her usual
grace and kindliness of manner remained, only I should say her gift
of attracting shone more conspicuous;--perhaps, because brought into
contact with several persons, she seemed called upon to express herself
with more animation, and to exhibit herself on more sides, as various
characters approached her. At any rate, I could not deny, on the one
hand, that these strangers were annoying to me, while on the other I
would not for a great deal have deprived myself of the pleasure of
witnessing her talents for society, and of seeing that she was made
for a wider and more general sphere.

Though covered with ornaments it was still the same bosom that had
opened to me its inmost secrets, and into which I could look as clearly
as into my own; they were still the same lips that had so lately
described to me the state of things amidst which she had grown up,
and had spent her early years. Every look that we interchanged, every
accompanying smile, bespoke a noble feeling of mutual intelligence,
and I was myself astonished, here in the crowd, at the secret innocent
understanding which existed between us in the most human, the most
natural way.

But with returning spring, the pleasant freedom of the country was to
knit still closer these relations. Offenbach on the Main showed even
then the considerable beginnings of a city, which promised to form
itself in time. Beautiful, and for the times, splendid buildings, were
already erected. Of these Uncle Bernard, (to call him by his familiar
title) inhabited the largest; extensive factories were adjoining;
D'Orville, a lively young man of amiable qualities, lived opposite.
Contiguous gardens and terraces, reaching down to the Main, and
affording a free egress in every direction into the lovely surrounding
scenery, put both visitors and residents in excellent humor. The lover
could not find a more desirable spot for indulging his feelings.

[Side-note: André-Ewald--Bürger's Leonore.]

I lived, at the house of John André, and since I am here forced to
mention this man, who afterwards made himself well enough known, I must
indulge in a short digression, in order to give some idea of the state
of the Opera at that time.

In Frankfort, Marchand was director of the theatre, and exerted himself
in his own person to do all that was possible. In his best years he
had been a fine, large well-made man, the easy and gentle qualities
appeared to predominate in his character; his presence on the stage,
therefore, was agreeable enough. He had perhaps as much voice as was
required for the execution of any of the musical works of that day;
accordingly he endeavoured to adapt to our stage the large and smaller
French operas.

The part of the father in Gretry's opera of "Beauty and the Beast,"
particularly suited him and his acting was quite expressive in the
scene of the Vision which was contrived at the back of the stage.

This opera, successful in its way, approached, however the lofty
style, and was calculated to excite the tenderest feelings. On the
other hand a Demon of Realism had got possession of the opera-house;
operas founded upon different crafts and classes were brought out. _The
Huntsmen, the Coopers_, and I know not what else, were produced; André
chose the _Potter._ He had written the words himself, and upon that
part of the text which belonged to him, had lavished his whole musical
talent.

I was lodging with him, and will only say so much as occasion demands
of this ever ready poet and composer.

He was a man of an innate lively talent and was settled at Offenbach,
where he properly carried on a mechanical business and manufacture; he
floated between the chapel-master (or Precentor) and the dilettante. In
the hope of meriting the former title, he toiled very earnestly to gain
a thorough knowledge of the science of music; in the latter character
he was inclined to repeat his own compositions without end.

Among the persons who at this time were most active in filling and
enlivening our circle, the pastor Ewald must be first named. In
society an intellectual agreeable companion, he still carried on in
private quietly and diligently the studies of his profession, and in
fact afterwards honourably distinguished himself in the province of
theology. Ewald in short was an indispensable member of our circle,
being quick alike of comprehension and reply.

Lili's pianoforte-playing completely fettered our good André to our
society; what with instructing, conducting, and executing, there were
few hours of the day or night in which he was not either in the family
circle or at our social parties.

Bürger's "Leonore," then but just published, and received with
enthusiasm by the Germans, had been set to music by by him; this piece
he was always forward to execute however often it might be encored.

I too, who was in the habit of repeating pieces of poetry with
animation, was always ready to recite it. Our friends at this time
did not get weary of the constant repetition of the same thing. When
the company had their choice which of us they would rather hear, the
decision was often in my favour.

All this (however it might be) served to prolong the intercourse of the
lovers. They knew no bounds, and between them both they easily managed
to keep the good John André continually in motion, that by repetitions
he might make his music last till midnight. The two lovers thus secured
for themselves, a precious and indispensable opportunity.

If we walked out early in the morning, we found ourselves in the
freshest air, but not precisely in the country. Imposing buildings,
which at that time would have done honor to a city; gardens, spreading
before us and easily overlooked, with their smooth flower and
ornamental beds; a clear prospect commanding the opposite banks of
the river, over whose surface even at an early hour might be seen
floating a busy line of rafts or nimble market-skiffs and boats--these
together formed a gently gliding, living world, in harmony with love's
tender feelings. Even the lonely rippling of the waves and rustling
of the reeds in a softly flowing stream was highly refreshing, and
never failed to throw a decidedly tranquillising spell over those who
approached the spot. A clear sky of the finest season of the year
overarched the whole, and most pleasant was it to renew morning after
morning her dear society, in the midst of such scenes!

Should such a mode of life seem too irregular, too trivial to
the earnest reader, let him consider that between what is here
brought closely together for the sake of a convenient order, there
intervened whole days and weeks of renunciation, other engagements and
occupations, and indeed an insupportable tedium.

Men and women were busily engaged in their spheres of duty. I, too,
out of regard for the present and the future, delayed not to attend to
all my obligations; and I found time enough to finish that to which my
talent and my passion irresistibly impelled me.

The earliest hours of the morning I devoted to poetry; the middle
of the day was assigned to worldly business, which was handled in
a manner quite peculiar. My father, a thorough and indeed finished
jurist, managed himself such business as arose from the care of his
own property, and a connexion with highly valued friends; for although
his character as Imperial Councillor did not allow him to practise,
he was at hand as legal adviser to many a friend, while the papers
he had prepared were signed by a regular advocate, who received a
consideration for every such signature.

This activity of his had now become more lively since my return,
and I could easily remark, that he prized my talent higher than my
practice, and on that account did what he could to leave me time for
my poetical studies and productions. Sound and thoroughly apt, but
slow of conception and execution, he studied the papers as private
_Referendarius_, and when we came together, he would state the case,
and left me to work it out, in which I shewed so much readiness,
that he felt a father's purest joy, and once could not refrain from
declaring, "that, if I were not of his own blood, he should envy me."

[Side-note: My Worldly Affairs.]

To lighten our work we had engaged a scribe whose character and
individuality, well worked out, would have helped to adorn a romance.
After his school-years, which had been profitably spent, and in which
he had become fully master of Latin, and acquired some other useful
branches of knowledge, a dissipated academic life had brought trouble
on the remainder of his days. He dragged on a wretched existence for a
time in sickness and in poverty, till at last he contrived to improve
his circumstances by the aid of a fine hand-writing and a readiness at
accounts. Employed by some advocates, he gradually acquired an accurate
knowledge of the formalities of legal business, and by his faithfulness
and punctuality made every one he served his patron. He had been
frequently employed by our family, and was always at hand in matters of
law and account.

He also was an useful assistant in our continually increasing business,
which consisted not only of law matters, but also of various sorts of
commissions, orders and transit agencies. In the council-house he knew
all the passages and windings; in his way, he was in tolerable favor at
both burgomasters' audiences; and since, from his first entrance into
office, and even during the times of his equivocal behaviour, he had
been well acquainted with many of the new senators, some of whom had
quickly risen to the dignity of _Schöffen_, he had acquired a certain
confidence, which might be called a sort of influence. All this he
knew how to turn to the advantage of his patrons, and since the state
of his health forced him to limit his application to writing, he was
always found ready to execute every commission or order with care.

His presence was not disagreeable; he was slender in person and
of regular features; his manner was unobtrusive, though a certain
expression betrayed his conviction that he knew all what was necessary
to be done; moreover, he was cheerful and dexterous in clearing away
difficulties. He must have been full forty, and (to say the same
thing over again), I regret that I have never introduced him as the
mainspring in the machinery of some novel.

Hoping that my more serious readers are now somewhat satisfied by what
I have just related, I will venture to turn again to that bright point
of time, when love and friendship shone in their fairest light.

It was in the nature of such social circles that all birth-days should
be carefully celebrated, with every variety of rejoicing; it was in
honor of the birth-day of the pastor Ewald, that the following song was
written:--

    When met in glad communion,
      When warm'd by love and wine,
    To sing this song in union,
      Our voices we'll combine,
    Through God, who first united,
      Together we remain:
    The flame which once He lighted,
      He now revives again.

Since this song has been preserved until this day, and there is
scarcely a merry party at which it is not joyfully revived, we commend
it also to all that shall come after us, and to all who sing it or
recite it we wish the same delight and inward satisfaction which we
then had, when we had no thought of any wider world, but felt ourselves
a world to ourselves in that narrow circle.

It will, of course, be expected that Lili's birth-day, which, on
the 23rd June, 1775, returned for the seventeenth time, was to
be celebrated with peculiar honours. She had promised to come to
Offenbach at noon; and I must observe that our friends, with a happy
unanimity, had laid aside all customary compliments at this festival,
and had prepared for her reception and entertainment nothing but such
heartfelt tokens, as were worthy of her.

[Side-note: Plot of "She Comes Not."]

Busied with such pleasant duties, I saw the sun go down, announcing a
bright day to follow, and promising its glad beaming presence at our
feast, when Lili's brother, George, who knew not how to dissemble, came
somewhat rudely into the chamber, and, without sparing our feelings,
gave us to understand that to-morrow's intended festival was put off;
he himself could not tell how, or why, but his sister had bid him say
that it would be wholly impossible for her to come to Offenbach at noon
that day, and take part in the intended festival; she had no hope of
arriving before evening. She knew and felt most sensibly how vexatious
and disagreeable it must be to me and all her friends, but she begged
me very earnestly to invent some expedient which might soften and
perhaps do away the unpleasant effects of this news, which she left it
to me to announce. If I could, she would give me her warmest thanks.

I was silent for a moment, but I quickly recovered myself, and, as
if by heavenly inspiration, saw what was to be done. "Make haste,
George!" I cried; "tell her to make herself easy, and do her best to
come towards evening; I promise that this very disappointment shall be
turned into a cause of rejoicing!" The boy was curious, and wanted to
know how? I refused to gratify his curiosity, notwithstanding that he
called to his aid all the arts and all the influence which a brother of
our beloved can presume to exercise.

No sooner had he gone, than I walked up and down in my chamber with a
singular self-satisfaction; and, with the glad, free feeling that here
was a brilliant opportunity of proving myself her devoted servant,
I stitched together several sheets of paper with beautiful silk, as
suited alone such an occasional poem, and hastened to write down the
title:

"SHE COMES NOT!"

    "A Mournful Family Piece, which, by the sore visitation of
    Divine Providence, will be represented in the most natural
    manner on the 23rd of June, 1775, at Offenbach-on-the-Maine.
    The action lasts from morning until evening."

I have not by me either the original or a copy of this _jeu d'esprit_;
I have often inquired after one, but have never been able to get a
trace of it; I must therefore compose it anew, a thing which, in the
general way, is not difficult.

The scene is at D'Orville's house and garden in Offenbach; the action
opens with the domestics, of whom each one plays his special part,
and evident preparations for a festival are being made. The children,
drawn to the life, run in and out among them; the master appears and
the mistress, actively discharging her appropriate functions; then,
in the midst of the hurry and bustle of active preparation comes in
neighbour Hans André, the indefatigable composer; he seats himself at
the piano, and calls them all together to hear him try his new song,
which he has just finished for the festival. He gathers round him the
whole house, but all soon disperse again to attend to pressing duties;
one is called away by another, this person wants the help of that; at
last, the arrival of the gardener draws attention to the preparations
in the grounds and on the water; wreaths, banners with ornamental
inscriptions, in short, nothing is forgotten.

While they are all assembled around the most attractive objects, in
steps a messenger, who, as a sort of humorous go-between, was also
entitled to play his part, and who although he has had plenty of
drink-money, could still pretty shrewdly guess what was the state of
the case. He sets a high value on his packet, demands a glass of wine
and a wheaten roll, and after some roguish hesitation hands over his
despatches. The master of the house lets his arms drop, the papers fall
to the floor, he calls out: "Let me go to the table! let me go to the
bureau that I may _brush._"

The spirited intercourse of vivacious persons is chiefly distinguished
by a certain symbolical style of speech and gesture. A sort of
conventional idiom arises, which, while it makes the initiated very
happy, is unobserved by the stranger, or, if observed, is disagreeable.

[Side-note: Plot of "She Comes Not."]

Among Lili's most pleasing particularities was the one which is here
expressed by the word brushing, and which manifested itself whenever
anything disagreeable was said or told, especially when she sat at
table, or was near any flat surface.

It had its origin in a most fascinating but odd expedient, which she
once had recourse to when a stranger, sitting near her at table,
uttered something unseemly. Without altering her mild countenance, she
brushed with her right hand, most prettily, across the table-cloth,
and deliberately pushed off on to the floor everything she reached
with this gentle motion. I know not what did not fall:--knives, forks,
bread, salt-cellar, and also something belonging to her neighbour;
every one was startled; the servants ran up, and no one knew what it
all meant, except the observing ones, who were delighted that she had
rebuked and checked an impropriety in so pretty a manner.

Here now was a symbol found to express the repulsion of anything
disagreeable, which still is frequently made use of in clever, hearty,
estimable, well-meaning, and not thoroughly polished society. We all
adopted the motion of the right hand as a sign of reprobation; the
actual brushing away of objects was a thing which afterwards she
herself indulged in only moderately and with good taste.

When, therefore, the poet gives to the master of the house, as a piece
of dumb shew, this desire for brushing, (a habit which had become
with us a second nature,) the meaning and effect of the action and
its tendency, are at once apparent; for while he threatens to sweep
everything from all flat surfaces, everybody tries to hinder him, and
to pacify him, till finally he throws himself exhausted on a seat.

"What has happened?" all exclaim. "Is she sick? Is any one dead?"
"Read! read!" cries D'Orville, "there it lies on the ground." The
despatch is picked up; they read it, and exclaim: _She comes not!_

The great terror had prepared them for a greater;--but she was
well-nothing had happened to her! no one of the family was hurt; hope
pointed still to the evening.

André, who in the meanwhile had kept on with his music, came running
up at last, consoling and seeking consolation. Pastor Ewald and his
wife likewise came in quite characteristically, disappointed and yet
reasonable, sorry for the disappointment and yet quietly accepting all
for the best. Everything now is at sixes and sevens, until the calm and
exemplary uncle Bernard finally approaches, expecting a good breakfast
and a comfortable dinner; and he is the only one who sees the matter
from the right point of view. He, by reasonable speeches, sets all to
rights, just as in the Greek tragedy a god manages with a few words to
clear up the perplexities of the greatest heroes.

Dashed off "currente calamo," it was yet late at night before I had
finished it and given it to a messenger with instructions to deliver it
the next morning in Offenbach, precisely at ten o'clock.

Next day when I awoke, it was one of the brightest mornings possible,
and, I set off just in time to arrive at Offenbach, as I purposed,
precisely at noon.

I was received with the strangest charivari of salutations; the
interrupted feast was scarcely mentioned; they scolded and rated me,
because I had taken them off so well. The domestics were contented
with being introduced on the same stage with their superiors; only the
children, those most decided and indomitable realists, obstinately
insisted that they had not talked so and so, that everything in fact
went quite differently from the way in which it there stood written. I
appeased them by some foretastes of the supper-table, and they loved
me as much as ever. A cheerful dinner-party, with some though not all
of our intended festivities, put us in the mood of receiving Lili with
less splendor, but perhaps the more affectionately. She came, and
was welcomed by cheerful, nay, merry faces, surprised to find that
her staying away had not marred all our cheerfulness. They told her
everything, they laid the whole thing before her, and she, in her dear
sweet way, thanked me as only she could thank.

It required no remarkable acuteness to perceive, that her absence from
the festival in her honor was not accidental, but had been caused by
gossiping about the intimacy between us. However, this had not the
slightest influence either on our sentiments or our behavior.

[Side-note: Intimacy with Lili.]

At this season of the year there never failed to be a varied throng
of visitors from the city. Frequently I did not join the company
until late in the evening, when I found her apparently sympathizing;
and since I commonly appeared only for a few hours, I was glad of
an opportunity to be useful to her in any way, by attending to or
undertaking some commission, whether trifling or not, in her behalf.
And indeed this service is the most delightful which a man can enter
upon, as the old romances of chivalry contrive how to intimate in their
obscure, but powerful manner. That she ruled over me, was not to be
concealed, and this pride she might well allow herself; for in this
contest the victor and the vanquished both triumph, and enjoy an equal
glory.

This my repeated, though often brief co-operation, was always so much
the more effective. John André had always store of music; I contributed
new pieces either by others or myself; so that poetical and musical
blossoms showered down upon us. It was altogether a brilliant time; a
certain excitement reigned in the company, and there were no insipid
moments. Without further question it seemed to be communicated to all
the rest. For where inclination and passion come out in their own bold
nature, they encourage timid souls, who cannot comprehend why they
should suppress their equally valid rights. Hence relations, which
hitherto were more or less concealed, were now seen to intertwine
themselves without reserve; while others, which did not confess
themselves so openly, still glided on agreeably in the shade.

If, because of my multifarious avocations, I could not pass whole days
out of doors with her, yet the clear evenings gave us opportunity for
prolonged meetings in the open air. Loving souls will be pleased to
read the following event.

Ours was a condition of which it stands written: "I sleep, but my heart
wakes;" the bright and the dark hours were alike; the light of the day
could not outshine the light of love, and the night was made as the
brightest day by the radiance of passion.

One clear starlight evening we had been walking about in the open
country till it was quite late; and after I had seen her and her
friends home to their several doors, and finally had taken leave of
her, I felt so little inclined to sleep that I did not hesitate to set
off on another ramble. I took the highroad to Frankfort, giving myself
up to my thoughts and hopes; here I seated myself on a bench, in the
purest stillness of night, under the gleaming starry heavens, that I
might belong only to myself and her.

My attention was attracted by a sound quite near me, which I could not
explain; it was not a rattling, nor a rustling noise, and on closer
observation I discovered that it was under the ground, and caused
by the working of some little animal. It might be a hedge-hog, or a
weasel, or whatever creature labors in that way at such hours.

Having set off again towards the city and got near to the Röderberg, I
recognised, by their chalk-white gleam, the steps which lead up to the
vineyards. I ascended them, sat down, and fell asleep.

When I awoke, the twilight had already dawned, and I found myself
opposite the high wall, which in earlier times had been erected to
defend the heights on this side. Saxenhausen lay before me, light mists
marked out the course of the river; it was cool, and to me most welcome.

There I waited till the sun, rising gradually behind me, lighted up
the opposite landscape. It was the spot where I was again to see my
beloved, and I returned slowly back to the paradise which surrounded
her yet sleeping.

On account of my increasing circle of business, which, from love to
her, I was anxious to extend and to establish, my visits to Offenbach
became more rare, and hence arose a somewhat painful predicament; so
that it might well be remarked, that, for the sake of the future, one
postpones and loses the present.

As my prospects were now gradually improving, I took them to be more
promising than they really were, and I thought the more about coming
to a speedy explanation, since go public an intimacy could not go on
much longer without misconstruction. And, as is usual in such cases,
we did not expressly say it to one another; but the feeling of being
mutually pleased in every way, the full conviction that a separation
was impossible, the confidence reposed in one another,--all this
produced such a seriousness, that I, who had firmly resolved never
again to get involved in any troublesome connexion of the kind, and who
found myself, nevertheless, entangled in this, without the certainty of
a favorable result, was actually beset with a heaviness of mind, to get
rid of which I plunged more and more in indifferent worldly affairs,
from which apart from my beloved I had no care to derive either profit
or pleasure.

[Side-note: A Betrothal.]

In this strange situation, the like of which many, no doubt, have
with pain experienced, there came to our aid a female friend of the
family, who saw through characters and situations very clearly. She
was called Mademoiselle Delf; she presided with her elder sister over
a little business in Heidelberg, and on several occasions had received
many favors from the greater Frankfort commission-house. She had
known and loved Lili from her youth; she was quite a peculiar person,
of an earnest, masculine look, and with an even, firm hasty step. She
had had peculiar reason to adapt herself to the world, and hence she
understood it, in a certain sense at least. She could not be called
intriguing; she was accustomed to consider distant contingencies,
and to carry out her plans in silence: but then she had the gift of
seeing an opportunity, and if she found people wavering betwixt doubt
and resolution, at the moment when everything depended upon decision,
she skilfully contrived to infuse into their minds such a force of
character, that she seldom failed to accomplish, her purpose. Properly
speaking she had no selfish ends; to have done anything, to have
completed anything, especially to have brought about a marriage, was
reward enough for her. She had long since seen through our position,
and, in repeated visits, had carefully observed the state of affairs,
so that she had finally convinced herself that the attachment must
be favored; that our plans, honestly but not very skilfully taken in
hand and prosecuted, must be promoted, and that this little romance be
brought to a close as speedily as possible.

For many years she had enjoyed the confidence of Lili's mother.
Introduced by me to my parents, she had managed to make herself
agreeable to them; for her rough sort of manner is seldom offensive in
an imperial city, and backed by cleverness and tact, is even welcome.
She knew very well our wishes and our hopes; her love of meddling made
her see in all this a call upon her good offices; in short she had a
conversation with our parents. How she commenced it, how she put aside
the difficulties which must have stood in her way, I know not; but she
came to us one evening and brought the consent. "Take each other by
the hand!" cried she, in her pathetic yet commanding manner. I stood
opposite to Lili and offered her my hand; she, not indeed hesitatingly,
but still slowly, placed hers in it. After a long and deep breath we
fell with lively emotion into each other's arms.

It was a strange degree of the overruling Providence, that in the
course of my singular history, I should also have experienced the
feelings of one who is betrothed.

I may venture to assert, that for a truly moral man it is the
pleasantest of all recollections. It is delightful to recall those
feelings, which are with difficulty expressed and are hardly explained.
For him the state of things is all at once changed; the sharpest
oppositions are removed, the most inveterate differences are adjusted;
prompting nature, ever warning reason, the tyrannizing impulses, and
the sober law, which before kept up a perpetual strife within us,
all are now reconciled in friendly unity, and at the festival, so
universally celebrated with solemn rites, that which was forbidden is
commanded, and that which was penal is raised to an inviolable duty.

The reader will learn with moral approval that from this time forward
a certain change took place in me. If my beloved had hitherto been
looked upon as beautiful, graceful, and attractive, now she appeared
to me a being of superior worth and excellence. She was as it were a
double person: her grace and loveliness belonged to me,--that I felt
as formerly; but the dignity of her character, her self-reliance, her
confidence in all persons remained her own. I beheld it, I looked
through it, I was delighted with it as with a capital of which I should
enjoy the interest as long as I lived.

There is depth and significance in the old remark: on the summit
of fortune one abides not long. The consent of the parties on both
sides, so gained in such a peculiar manner by Demoiselle Delf, was now
ratified silently and without further formality. But as soon as we
believe the matter to be all settled--as soon as the ideal, as we may
well call it, of a betrothal is over, and it begins to pass into the
actual and to enter soberly into facts, then too often comes a crisis.
The outward world is utterly unmerciful, and it has reason, for it
must maintain its authority at all costs; the confidence of passion is
very great, and we see it too often wrecked upon the rocks of opposing
realities. A young married couple who enter upon life, unprovided with
sufficient means, can promise themselves no honey-moon, especially
in these latter times; the world immediately presses upon them with
incompatible demands, which, if not satisfied, make the young couple
appear ridiculous.

Of the insufficiency of the means which for the attainment of my end,
I had anxiously scraped together, I could not before be aware, because
they had held out up to a certain point; but now the end was drawing
nearer, I saw that matters were not quite what they ought to be.

The fallacy, which passion finds so convenient, was now exposed in
all its inconsistency. My house, my domestic circumstances, had
to be considered in all their details, with some soberness. The
consciousness, that his house would one day contain a daughter-in-law,
lay indeed at the bottom of my father's design; but then what sort of a
lady did he contemplate?

[Side-note: The Realities of Life.]

At the end of our third part, the reader made the acquaintance of the
gentle, dear, intelligent, beautiful, and talented maiden, so always
like herself, so affectionate, and yet so free from passion; she was a
fitting key-stone to the arch already built and curved. But here, upon
calm unbiassed consideration, it could not be denied that, in order to
establish the newly acquired treasure in such a function, a new arch
would have to be built!

However this had not yet become clear to me, and still less was it so
to her mind. But now when I tried to fancy myself bringing her to my
home, she did not seem somehow to suit it exactly. It appeared to me
something like what I had myself experienced, when I first joined her
social circle: in order to give no offence to the fashionable people
I met there, I found it necessary to make a great change in my style
of dress. But this could not be so easily done with the domestic
arrangement of a stately burgher's house, which, rebuilt in the olden
style, had with its antique ornaments, given an old-fashioned character
to the habits of its inmates.

Moreover, even after our parents' consent had been gained, it had
not been possible to establish friendly relations or intercourse
between our respective families. Different religious opinions produced
different manners; and if the amiable girl had wished to continue
in any way her former mode of life, it would have found neither
opportunity nor place in our moderate-sized house.

If I had never thought of all this until now, it was because I had been
quieted by the opening of fine prospects from without, and the hope
of getting some valuable appointment. An active spirit gets a footing
everywhere: capacities, talents create confidence; every one thinks
that a change of management is all that is needed. The earnestness of
youth finds favour, genius is trusted for, everything, though its
power is only of a certain kind.

The intellectual and literary domain of Germany was at that time
regarded as but newly broken ground. Among the business-people there
were prudent men, who desired skilful cultivators and prudent managers
for the fields about to be turned up. Even the respectable and well
established Free-Mason's lodge, with the most distinguished members of
which I had become acquainted through my intimacy with Lili, contrived
in a suitable manner to get me introduced to them; but I, from a
feeling of independence, which afterwards appeared to me madness,
declined all closer connection with them, not perceiving that these
men, though already bound together in a higher sense, would yet do much
to further my own ends, so nearly related to theirs.

I return to more personal matters.

In such cities as Frankfort, men often hold several situations
together, such as residentships, and agencies, the number of which
may by diligence be indefinitely increased. Something of this sort
now occurred to me, and at first sight it seemed both advantageous
and honorable. It was assumed that I should suit the place; and it
would, under the conditions, certainly have succeeded, if it could have
commanded the co-operation of the Chancery triad already described.
We thus suppress our doubts; we dwell only on what is favorable, by
powerful activity we overcome all wavering; whence there results a
something untrue in our position, without the force of passion being in
the least subdued.

       *       *       *       *       *

In times of peace there is no more interesting reading for the
multitude than the public papers, which furnish early information of
the latest doings in the world. The quiet opulent citizen exercises
thus in an innocent way a party spirit, which in our finite nature
we neither can nor should get rid of. Every comfortable person thus
gets up a factitious interest, like that which is often felt in a
bet, experiences an unreal gain or loss, and as in the theatre, feels
a very lively, though imaginary sympathy in the good or evil fortune
of others. This sympathy seems often arbitrary, but it rests on moral
grounds. For now we give to praiseworthy designs the applause they
deserve; and now again, carried away by brilliant successes, we turn
to those whose plans we should otherwise have blamed. For all this
there was abundant material in those times.

Frederick the Second, resting on his victories, seemed to hold in his
hand the fate of Europe and the world; Catherine, a great woman, who
had proved herself every way worthy of a throne, afforded ample sphere
of action to able and highly gifted men, in extending the dominion of
their Empress; and as this was done at the expense of the Turks, whom
we are in the habit of richly repaying for the contempt with which
they look down upon us, it seemed as if it was no sacrifice of human
life, when these infidels were slain by thousands. The burning of the
fleet in the harbor of Tschesme, caused a universal jubilee throughout
the civilized world, and every one shared the exultation of a victory,
when, in order to preserve a faithful picture of that great event, a
ship of war was actually blown up on the roads of Leghorn, before the
studio of an artist. Not long after this, a young northern king, to
establish his own authority, seized the reins of government, out of
the hands of an oligarchy. The aristocrats whom he overthrew were not
lamented, for aristocracy finds no favor with the public, since it is
in its nature to work in silence, and it is the more secure the less
talk it creates about itself; and in this case the people thought all
the better of the young king, since in order to balance the enmity of
the higher ranks, he was obliged to favor the lower, and to conciliate
their good will.

[Side-note: American Revolution.]

The lively interest of the world was still more, excited when a whole
people prepared to effect their independence. Already had it witnessed
a welcome spectacle of the same effort on a small scale: Corsica had
long been the point to to which all eyes were directed; Paoli, when
despairing of ever being able to carry out his patriotic designs, he
passed through Germany to England, attracted and won all hearts; he was
a fine man, slender, fair, full of grace and friendliness. I saw him
in the house of Bethmann, where he stopped a short time, and received
with cheerful cordiality the curious visitors who thronged to see
him. But now similar events were to be repeated in a remote quarter
of the globe; we wished the Americans all success, and the names of
Franklin and Washington began to shine and sparkle in the firmament of
politics and war. Much had been accomplished to improve the condition
of humanity, and now, when in France, a new and benevolent sovereign
evinced the best intentions of devoting himself to the removal of
so many abuses and to the noblest ends,--of introducing a regular
and efficient system of political economy,--of dispensing with all
arbitrary power and of ruling alone by law and justice; the brightest
hopes spread over the world, and confident youth promised itself and to
all mankind a bright and noble future.

In all these events, however, I only took part so far as they
interested society in general; I myself and my immediate circle did not
meddle with the news of the day; our affair was to study men; men in
general we allowed to have their way.

The quiet position of the German Fatherland, to which also my native
city had now conformed for upwards of a hundred years, had been fully
preserved in spite of many wars and convulsions. A highly varied
gradation of ranks, which, instead of holding the several classes
apart, seemed to bind them the more closely together, had promoted
the interest of all, from the highest to the lowest--from the Emperor
to the Jew. If the sovereign princes stood in a subordinate relation
to the Emperor, still their electoral rights and immunities thereby
acquired and maintained, were a full compensation. Moreover, the
highest nobility belonged exclusively to the Agnates of the royal
houses, so that in the enjoyment of their distinguished privileges,
they could look upon themselves as equal with the highest and even
superior to them in some sense, since, as spiritual electors, they
might take precedence of all others, and, as branches of the sacred
hierarchy, hold an honorable and uncontested rank.

If now we think of the extraordinary privileges which these ancient
houses enjoyed, not only in their old patrimonial estates, but also
in the ecclesiastical endowments, the knightly orders, the official
administration of the Empire, and the old brotherhoods and alliances
for mutual defence and protection, we can vainly conceive that this
great body of influential men feeling themselves at once subordinated
to and co-ordinate with the highest, and occupying their days with
a regular round of employments, might well be contented with their
situation, and would without further anxiety seek only to secure and
transmit to their successors the same comforts and prerogatives. Nor
was this class deficient in intellectual culture. Already for more than
a century the decided proofs of high training in military and political
science had been discernible in our noble soldiers and diplomatists.
But at the same time there were many minds who, through literary and
philosophical studies, had arrived at views not over favorable to the
existing state of things.

[Side-note: State of Germany.]

In Germany scarcely any one had as yet learned to look with envy on
that monstrous privileged class, or to grudge its fortunate advantages.
The middle class had devoted themselves undisturbed to commerce and
the sciences, and by these pursuits, as well as by the practice of the
mechanic arts, so closely related to them, had raised themselves to a
position of importance which fully balanced its political inferiority;
the free or half-free cities favoured this activity, while individuals
felt a certain quiet satisfaction in it. The man who increased his
wealth, or enhanced his intellectual influence, especially in matters
of law or state, could always be sure of enjoying both respect and
authority. In the Supreme Courts of the empire, and indeed in all
others, a learned bench stood parallel with the noble; the uncontrolled
oversight of the one managed to keep in harmony with the deepest
insight of the other; and experience could never detect a trace of
rivalry between them; the noble felt secure in his exclusive and
time-hallowed privileges, and the burgher felt it beneath his dignity
to strive for a semblance of them by a little prefix to his name.[1]
The merchant, the manufacturer, had enough to do to keep pace with
those of other nations in progress and improvement. Leaving out of the
account the usual temporary fluctuations, we may certainly say that
it was on the whole a time of pure advance, such as had not appeared
before, and such as, on account of another and greater progress both of
mind and things, could not long continue.

My position with regard to the higher classes at this time was very
favorable. In _Werther_, to be sure, the disagreeable circumstances
which arise just at the boundary between two distinct positions,
were descanted upon with some impatience; but this was overlooked in
consideration of the generally passionate character of the book, since
every one felt that it had no reference to any immediate effect.

But _Götz von Berlichingen_ had set me quite right with the upper
classes; whatever improprieties might be charged upon my earlier
literary productions, in this work I had with considerable learning and
cleverness depicted the old German constitution, with its inviolable
emperor at the head, with its many degrees of nobility, and a knight
who, in a time of general lawlessness, had determined as a private man
to act uprightly, if not lawfully, and thus fell into a very sorry
predicament. This complicated story, however, was not snatched from the
air, but founded on fact; it was cheerfully lively, and consequently
here and there a little modern, but it was, nevertheless, on the whole,
in the same spirit as the brave and capable man had with some degree of
skill set it forth in his own narrative.

The family still flourished; its relation to the Frankish knighthood
had remained in all its integrity, although that relation, like many
others at that time, might have grown somewhat faint and nominal.

Now all at once the little stream of Jaxt, and the castle of
Jaxthausen, acquired a poetical importance; they, as well as the
council-house at Heilbronn, were visited by travellers.

It was known that I had the mind to write of other points of that
historical period; and many a family, which could readily deduce its
origin from that time, hoped to see its ancestors brought to the light
in the same way.

A strange satisfaction is generally felt, when a writer felicitously
recalls a nation's history to its recollection; men rejoice in the
virtues of their ancestors, and smile at the failings, which they
believe they themselves have long since got rid of. Such a delineation
never fails to meet with sympathy and applause, and in this respect I
enjoyed an envied influence.

Yet it may be worth while to remark, that among the numerous advances,
and in the multitude of young persons who attached themselves to me,
there was found no nobleman; on the other hand, many who had already
arrived at the age of thirty sought me and visited me, and of these
the willing and striving were pervaded by a joyful hope of earnestly
developing themselves in a national and even more universally humane
sense.

[Side-note: Ulrich Von Hutten.]

At this time a general curiosity about the epoch between the fifteenth
and sixteenth century had commenced, and was very lively. The works
of ULRICH VON HUTTEN had fallen into my hands, and I was not a little
struck to see something so similar to what had taken place in his time,
again manifesting itself in our later days.

The following letter of Ulrich von Hutten to Billibald Pyrkheymer, may
therefore suitably find place here:--

"What fortune gives us, it generally takes away again; and not only
that--everything else which accrues to man from without, is, we see,
liable to accident and change. And yet, notwithstanding, I am now
striving for honor, which I should wish to obtain, if possible, without
envy, but still at any cost; for a fiery thirst for glory possesses
me, so that I wish to be ennobled as highly as possible. I should make
but a poor figure in my own eyes, dear Billibald, if, born in the
rank, in the family I am, and of such ancestors, I could be content
to hold myself to be noble, though I never ennobled myself by my own
exertions. So great a work have I in my mind! my thoughts are higher!
it is not that I would see myself promoted to a more distinguished and
more brilliant rank; but I would fain seek a fountain elsewhere, out of
which I might draw a peculiar nobility of my own, and not be counted
among the factitious nobility, contented with what I have received
from my ancestors. On the contrary, I would add to those advantages
something of my own, which may, from me, pass over to my posterity.

"Therefore, in my studies and my efforts, I proceed in opposition
to the opinion of those who consider that what actually exists is
enough; for to me nothing of that sort is enough, according to what
I have already confessed to you of my ambition in this respect. And
I here avow that I do not envy those who, starting from the lowest
stations, have climbed higher than myself; for on this point I by
no means agree with those of my own rank, who are wont to sneer at
persons who, of a lower origin, have, by their own talents, raised
themselves to eminence. For those with perfect right are to be
preferred to us, who have seized for themselves and taken possession
of the material of glory, which we ourselves neglected; they may be
the sons of fullers or of tanners, but they have contrived to attain
their ends, by struggling with greater difficulties than we ever had
against us. The ignorant man, who envies him who by his knowledge has
distinguished himself, is not only to be called a fool, but is to be
reckoned among the miserable--indeed among the most miserable; and with
this disease are our nobles especially affected, that they look with
an evil eye upon such accomplishments. For what, in God's name! is it
to envy one who possesses that which we have despised? Why have we not
applied ourselves to the law? why have we not ourselves this excellent
learning, the best arts? And now fullers, shoemakers, and wheelwrights,
go before us. Why have we forsaken our post, why left the most liberal
studies to hired servants and (shamefully for us!) to the very lowest
of the people? Most justly has that inheritance of nobility which we
have thrown away been taken possession of by every clever and diligent
plebeian who makes it profitable by its own industry. Wretched beings
that we are, who neglect that which suffices to raise the very humblest
above us; let us cease to envy, and strive also to obtain what others,
to our deep disgrace, have claimed for themselves.

"Every longing for glory is honorable; all striving for the excellent
is praiseworthy. To every rank may its own honor remain, may its own
ornaments be secured to it! Those statues of my ancestors I do not
despise any more than the richly endowed pedigree; but whatever their
worth may be, it is not ours, unless by our own merits we make it ours;
nor can it endure, if the nobility do not adopt the habits which become
them. In vain will yonder fat and corpulent head of a noble house point
to the images of his ancestors, whilst he himself, inactive, resembles
a clod rather than those whose virtues throw a halo upon his name from
bygone days.

"So much have I wished most fully and most frankly to confide to you
respecting my ambition and my nature."

Although, perhaps, not exactly in the same train of ideas, yet the
same excellent and strong sentiments had I to hear from my more
distinguished friends and acquaintances, of which the results appeared
in an honest activity. It had become a creed, that every one must earn
for himself a personal nobility, and if any rivalry appeared in those
fine days, it was from above downwards.

We others, on the contrary, had what we wished; the free and approved
exercise of the talents lent to us by nature, as far as could consist
with all our civil relations.

[Side-note: Frankfort and Its Constitution.]

For my native city had in this a very peculiar position, and one
which has not been enough considered. While of the free imperial
cities the northern could boast of an extended commerce, but the
southern, declining in commercial importance, cultivated the arts and
manufactures with more success; Frankfort on the Main exhibited a
somewhat mixed character, combining the results of trade, wealth, and
capital, with the passion for learning, and its collection of works of
art.

The Lutheran Confession controlled its government; the ancient lordship
of the _Gan_, now bearing the name of the house of Limburg; the house
of Frauenstein, originally only a club, but during the troubles
occasioned by the lower classes, faithful to the side of intelligence;
the jurist, and others well to do and well disposed--none was excluded
from the magistracy; even those mechanics who had upheld the cause
of order at a critical time, were eligible to the council, though
they were only stationary in their place. The other constitutional
counterpoises, formal institutions, and whatever else belongs to such
a constitution, afforded employment to the activity of many persons;
while trade and manufacture, in so favorable a situation, found no
obstacle to their growth and prosperity.

The higher nobility kept to itself, unenvied and almost unnoticed; a
second class pressing close upon it was forced to be more active; and
resting upon old wealthy family foundations, sought to distinguish
itself by political and legal learning.

The members of the so-called Reformed persuasion (Calvinists) composed,
like the refugees in other places, a distinguished class, and when they
rode out in fine equipages on Sundays to their service in Bockenheim,
seemed almost to celebrate a sort of triumph over the citizen's party,
who had the privilege of going to church on foot in good weather and in
bad.

The Roman Catholics were scarcely noticed; but they also were aware
of the advantages which the other two confessions had appropriated to
themselves.


[1] The "von" which in Germany those who are ennobled prefix to their
surnames.




EIGHTEENTH BOOK.


Returning to literary matters, I must bring forward a circumstance
which had great influence on the German poetry of this period, and
which is especially worthy of remark, because this very influence has
lasted through the history of our poetic art to the present day, and
will not be lost even in the future.

From the earlier times, the Germans were accustomed to rhyme; it had
this advantage in its favour, that one could proceed in a very naïve
manner, scarcely doing more than count the syllables. If with the
progress of improvement attention began more or less instinctively to
be paid also to the sense and signification of the syllables, this
was highly praiseworthy, and a merit which many poets contrived to
make their own. The rhyme was made to mark the close of the poetical
proposition; the smaller divisions were indicated by shorter lines, and
a naturally refined ear began to make provision for variety and grace.
But now all at once rhyme was rejected before it was considered that
the value of the syllables had net as yet been decided, indeed that it
was a difficult thing to decide. Klopstock took the lead. How earnestly
he toiled and what he has accomplished is well known. Every one felt
the uncertainty of the matter, many did not like to run a risk, and
stimulated by this natural tendency, they snatched at a poetic prose.
Gessner's extremely charming Idylls opened an endless path. Klopstock
wrote the dialogue of _Hermann's Schlucht_ (_Hermann's Battle_) in
prose, as well as _Der Tod Adams_ (_The Death of Adam_). Through the
domestic tragedies as well as the more classic dramas, a style more
lofty and more impassioned gained possession of the theatre; while,
on the other hand, the Iambic verse of five feet, which the example
of the English had spread among us, was reducing poesy to prose. But
in general the demand for rhythm and for rhyme could not be silenced.
Ramler, though proceeding on vague principles (as he was always severe
with respect to his own productions). Could not help exercising the
same severity upon those of others. He transformed prose into verse,
altered and improved the works of others, by which means he earned
little thanks and only confused the matter still more. Those succeeded
best who still conformed to the old custom of rhyme with a certain
observance of syllabic quantity, and who, guided by a natural taste,
observed laws though unexpressed and undetermined; as, for example,
Wieland, who, although inimitable, for a long time served as a model to
more moderate talents.

But still in any case the practice remained uncertain, and there was
no one, even among the best, who might not for the moment have gone
astray. Hence the misfortune, that this epoch of our poetic history, so
peculiarly rich in genius, produced little which, in its kind, could
be pronounced correct; for here also the time was stirring, advancing,
active, and calling for improvement, but not reflective and satisfying
its own requirements.

In order, however, to find a firm soil on which poetic genius might
find a footing,--to discover an element in which they could breathe
freely, they had gone back some centuries, where earnest talents were
brilliantly prominent amid a chaotic state of things, and thus they
made friends with the poetic art of those times. The Minnesingers
lay too far from us; it would have been necessary first to study the
language, and that was not our object, we wanted to five and not to
learn.

[Side-note: Hans Sachs.]

Hans Sachs, the really masterly poet, was one whom we could more
readily sympathise with. A man of true talent, not indeed like the
Minnesinging knights and courtiers, but a plain citizen, such as we
also boasted ourselves to be. A didactic realism suited us, and on many
occasions we made use of the easy rhythm, of the readily occurring
rhyme. His manner seemed so suitable to mere poems of the day, and to
such occasional pieces as we were called upon to write at every hour.

       *       *       *       *       *

If important works, which required the attention and labor of a year or
a whole life, were built, more or less, upon such hazardous grounds on
trivial occasions, it may be imagined how wantonly all other ephemeral
productions took their rise and shape; for example, the poetical
epistles, parables, and invectives of all forms, with which we went on
making war within ourselves, and seeks squabbling abroad.

Of this kind, besides what has already been printed, something, though
very little, survives; it may be laid up somewhere. Brief allusions
will suffice to reveal to thinking men their origin and purposes.
Persons of more than ordinary penetration, to whose sight these may
hereafter be brought, will be ready to observe that an honest purpose
lay at the bottom of all such eccentricities. An upright will revolts
against presumption, nature against conventionalities, talent against
forms, genius with itself, energy against indecision, undeveloped
capacity against developed mediocrity; so that the whole proceeding may
be regarded as a skirmish which follows a declaration of war, and gives
promise of a violent contest. For, strictly considered, the contest is
not yet fought out, in these fifty years; it is still going on, only in
a higher region.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Side-note: The "Hanswurst's Hochzeit."]

I had, in imitation of an old German puppet play, invented a wild
extravaganza, which was to bear the title of _Hanswurst's Hochzeit_
(_Jack Pudding's Wedding_).[1] The scheme was as follows:--Hanswurst,
a rich young farmer and an orphan, has just come of age, and wishes
to marry a rich maiden, named Ursel Blandine. His guardian, Kilian
Brustflech (_Leather apron_), and her mother Ursel, are highly pleased
with the purpose. Their long-cherished plans, their dearest wishes,
are at last fulfilled and gratified. There is not the slightest
obstacle, and properly the whole interest turns only upon this, that
the young people's ardour for their union is delayed by the necessary
arrangements and formalities of the occasion. As prologue, enters the
inviter to the wedding festivities, who proclaims the banns after the
traditional fashion, and ends with the rhymes:

    The wedding feast is at the house
    Of mine host of the Golden Louse.

To obviate the charge of violating the unity of place, the aforesaid
tavern, with its glittering insignia, was placed in the background of
the theatre; but so that all its four sides could be presented to
view, by being turned upon a peg; and as it was moved round, the front
scenes of the stage had to undergo corresponding changes.

In the first act the front of the house facing the street was turned to
the audience, with its golden sign magnified as it were by the solar
microscope; in the second act, the side towards the garden. The third
was towards a little wood; the fourth towards a neighboring lake; which
gave rise to a prediction that in aftertimes the decorator would have
little difficulty in carrying a wave over the whole stage up to the
prompter's box.

But all this does not as yet reveal the peculiar interest of the piece.
The principal joke which was carried out, even to an absurd length,
arose from the fact that the whole _dramatis personæ_ consisted of mere
traditional German nicknames, which at once brought out the characters
of the individuals, and determined their relations to one another.

As we would fain hope that the present book will be read aloud in good
society, and even in decent family circles, we cannot venture, after
the custom of every play-bill, to name our persons here in order,
nor to cite the passages in which they most clearly and prominently
showed themselves in their true colours; although, in the simplest way
possible, lively, roguish, broad allusions, and witty jokes, could
not but arise. We add one leaf as a specimen, leaving our editors the
liberty of deciding upon its admissibility.

Cousin Schuft (_scamp_), through his relationship to the family, was
entitled to an invitation to the feast; no one had anything to say
against it; for though he was a thoroughly good-for-nothing fellow, yet
there he was, and since he was there, they could not with propriety
leave him out; on such a feast-day, too, they were not to remember that
they had occasionally been dissatisfied with him.

With Master Schurke (_knave_), it was a still more serious case;
he had, indeed, been useful to the family, when it was to his own
profit; on the other hand, again, he had injured it, perhaps, in this
case, also with an eye to his own interests; perhaps, too, because he
found an opportunity. Those who were any ways prudent voted for his
admission; the few who would have excluded him, were out-voted.

But there was a third person, about whom it was still more difficult
to decide; an orderly man in society, no less than others, obliging,
agreeable, useful in many ways; he had the single failing, that he
could not bear his name to be mentioned, and as soon as he heard it,
was instantaneously transported into a heroic fury, like that which the
Northmen call _Berserker-rage_, attempted to kill all right and left,
and in his frenzy hurt others and received hurt himself; indeed the
second act of the piece was brought, through him, to a very perplexed
termination.

Here was an opportunity which 1 could not allow to pass, for chastising
the piratical publisher Macklot. He is introduced going about hawking
his Macklot wares, and when he hears of the preparation for the
wedding, he cannot resist the impulse to go spunging for a dinner,
and to stuff his ravening maw at other people's expense. He announces
himself; Kilian Brustflech inquires into his claims, but is obliged
to refuse him, since it was an understanding that all the guests
should be well known public characters, to which recommendation the
applicant can make no claim. Macklot does his best to show that he is
as renowned as any of them. But when Kilian Brustflech, as a strict
master of ceremonies, shows himself immoveable, the nameless person,
who has recovered from his Berserker-rage at the end of the second act,
espouses the cause of his near relative, the book-pirate, so urgently,
that the latter is finally admitted among the guests.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Side-note: The Stolbergs.]

About this time the COUNTS STOLBERG arrived at Frankfort; they were on
a journey to Switzerland, and wished to make us a visit. The earliest
productions of my dawning talent, which appeared in the Göttingen
_Musenalmanach_, had led to my forming a friendly relation with them,
and with all those other young men whose characters and labors are
now well known. At that time rather strange ideas were entertained of
friendship and love. They applied themselves to nothing more, properly
speaking, than a certain vivacity of youth, which led to a mutual
association and to an interchange of minds, full indeed of talent but
nevertheless uncultivated. Such a mutual relation, which looked indeed
like confidence, was mistaken for love, for genuine inclination; I
deceived myself in this as well as others, and have, in more than one
way, suffered from it many years. There is still in existence a letter
of Bürger's belonging to that time, from which it may be seen that,
among these companions, there was no question about the moral æsthetic.
Every one felt himself excited, and thought that he might act and
poetize accordingly.

The brothers arrived, bringing Count Haugwitz with them. They were
received by me with open heart, with kindly propriety. They lodged
at the hotel, but were generally with us at dinner. The first joyous
meeting proved highly gratifying; but troublesome eccentricities soon
manifested themselves.

A singular position arose for my mother. In her ready frank way, she
could carry herself back to the middle age at once, and take the part
of Aja with some Lombard or Byzantine princess. They called her nothing
else but Frau Aja, and she was pleased with the joke; entering the more
heartily into the fantasies of youth, as she believed she saw her own
portrait in the lady of Götz von Berlichingen.

But this could not last long. We had dined together but a few times,
when once, after enjoying glass after glass, our poetic hatred for
tyrants showed itself, and we avowed a thirst for the blood of such
villains. My father smiled and shook his head; my mother had scarcely
heard of a tyrant in her life, however she recollected having seen
the copperplate engraving of such a monster in Gottfried's Chronicle,
viz., King Cambyses, whom he describes as having shot with an arrow
the little son of an enemy through the heart, and boasting of his
deed to the father's face; this still stood in her memory. To give a
cheerful turn to the conversation which continually grew more violent,
she betook herself to her cellar, where her oldest wines lay carefully
preserved in large casks. There she had in store no less treasure than
the vintages of 1706, '19, '26, and '48, all under her own especial
watch and ward, which were seldom broached except on solemn festive
occasions.

As she set before us the rich-colored wine in the polished decanter,
she exclaimed: "Here is the true tyrant's blood! Glut yourselves with
this, but let all murderous thoughts go out of my house!"

"Yes, tyrants' blood indeed!" I cried; "there is no greater tyrant than
the one whose heart's blood is here set before you. Regale yourselves
with it; but use moderation! for beware lest he subdue you by his
spirit and agreeable taste. The vine is the universal tyrant who ought
to be rooted up; let us therefore choose and reverence as our patron
Saint the holy Lycurgus, the Thracian; he set about the pious work in
earnest, and though at last blinded and corrupted by the infatuating
demon Bacchus, he yet deserves to stand high in the army of martyrs
above.

"This vine-stock is the very vilest tyrant, at once an oppressor, a
flatterer, and a hypocrite. The first draughts of his blood are sweetly
relishing, but one drop incessantly entices another after it; they
succeed each other like a necklace of pearls, which one fears to pull
apart."

If any should suspect me here of substituting, as the best historians
have done, a fictitious speech for the actual address, I can only
express my regret that no short-hand writer had taken down this
peroration at once and handed it down to us. The thoughts would be
found the same, but the flow of the language perhaps more graceful and
attractive. Above all, however, in the present sketch, as a whole,
there is a want of that diffuse eloquence and fulness of youth, which
feels itself, and knows not whither its strength and faculty will carry
it.

[Side-note: The Stolbergs.]

In a city like Frankfort, one is placed in a strange position;
strangers continually crossing each other, point to every region of
the globe, and awaken a passion for travelling. On many an occasion
before now I had shown an inclination to be moving, and now at the
very moment when the great point was to make an experiment whether I
could renounce Lili--when a certain painful disquiet unfitted me for
all regular business, the proposition of the Stolbergs, that I should
accompany them to Switzerland, was welcome. Stimulated, moreover, by
the exhortations of my father, who looked with pleasure on the idea
of my travelling in that direction, and who advised me not to omit to
pass over into Italy, if a suitable occasion should offer itself, I at
once decided to go, and soon had everything packed for the journey.
With some intimation, but without leave-taking, I separated myself
from Lili; she had so grown into my heart, that I did not believe it
possible to part myself from her.

In a few hours I found myself with my merry fellow-travellers in
Darmstadt. Even at court we should not always act with perfect
propriety; here Count Haugwitz took the lead. He was the youngest of
us all, well formed, of a delicate, but noble appearance, with soft
friendly features, of an equable disposition, sympathizing enough, but
with so much moderation, that, contrasted with us, he appeared quite
impassible. Consequently, he had to put up with all sorts of jibes and
nicknames from them. This was all very well, so long as they believed
that they might act like children of nature; but as soon as occasion
called for propriety, and when one was again obliged, not unwillingly,
to put on the reserve of a Count, then he knew how to introduce and
to smoothe over everything, so that we always came off with tolerable
credit, if not with _éclat_.

I spent my time, meanwhile, with Merck, who in his Mephistophelist
manner looked upon my intended journey with an evil eye, and described
my companions, who had also paid him a visit, with a discrimination
that listened not to any suggestions of mercy. In his way he knew me
thoroughly; the naïve and indomitable good nature of my character was
painful to him; the everlasting purpose to take things as they are,
the live and let live was his detestation. "It is a foolish trick," he
said, "your going with these Burschen;" and then he would describe them
aptly, but not altogether justly. Throughout there was a want of good
feeling, and here I could believe that I could see further than he did,
although I did not in fact do this, but only knew how to appreciate
those ideas of their character, which lay beyond the circle of his
vision.

"You will not stay long with them!" was the close of all his remarks.
On this occasion I remember a remarkable saying of his, which he
repeated to me at a later time, which I had often repeated to myself,
and frequently found confirmed in life. "Thy striving," said he, "thy
unswerving effort is to give a poetic form to the real; others seek
to give reality to the so-called poetic, to the imaginative, and of
that nothing will ever come but stupid stuff." Whoever apprehends the
immense difference between these two modes of action, whoever insists
and acts upon this conviction, has reached the solution of a thousand
other things.

Unhappily, before our party left Darmstadt, an incident happened which
tended to verify beyond dispute the opinion of Merck.

Among the extravaganzas which grew out of the notion that we should
try to transport ourselves into a state of nature, was that of bathing
in public waters, in the open air; and our friends, after violating
every other law of propriety, could not forego this additional
unseemliness. Darmstadt, situated on a sandy plain, without running
water, had, it appeared, a pond in the neighbourhood, of which I
only heard on this occasion. My friends, who were hot by nature, and
moreover kept continually heating themselves, sought refreshment in
this pond. The sight of naked youths in the clear sunshine, might well
seem something strange in this region; at all events scandal arose.
Merck sharpened his conclusions, and I do not deny that I was glad to
hasten our departure.

On the way to Mannheim, in spite of all good and noble feelings which
we entertained in common, a certain difference in sentiment and conduct
already exhibited itself. Leopold Stolberg told us with much of feeling
and passion, that he had been forced to renounce a sincere attachment
to a beautiful English lady, and on that account had undertaken so
long a journey. When he received in return the sympathising confession
that we too were not strangers to such experiences, then he gave vent
without respect to the feelings of youth, declaring that nothing in the
world could be compared with his passion, his sufferings, or with the
beauty and amiability of his beloved. If by moderate observations we
tried, as is proper among good companions, to bring him duly to qualify
his assertion, it only made matters worse; and Count Haugwitz, as well
as I, were inclined at last to let the matter drop. When we had reached
Mannheim, we occupied pleasant chambers in a respectable hotel, and
after our first dinner there during the dessert, at which the wine was
not spared, Leopold challenged us to drink to the health of his fair
one, which was done noisily enough. After the glasses were drained, he
cried out: But now, out of goblets thus consecrated, no more drinking
must be permitted; a second health would be a profanation; therefore,
let us annihilate these vessels! and with these words he dashed the
wine-glass against the wall behind him. The rest of us followed his
example; and I imagined at the moment, that Merck pulled me by the
collar.

But youth still retains this trait of childhood, that it harbors no
malice against good companions; that its unsophisticated good nature
may be brushed somewhat roughly indeed, to be sure, but cannot be
permanently injured.

[Side-note: Klopstock.]

The glasses thus proclaimed angelical had considerably swelled our
reckoning, comforting ourselves, however, and determined to be merry,
we hastened for Carlsruhe, there to enter a new circle, with all
the confidence of youth and its freedom from care. There we found
Klopstock, who still maintained, with dignity, his ancient authority
over disciples who held him in reverence. I also gladly did homage
to him, so that when bidden to his court with the others, I probably
conducted myself tolerably well for a novice. One felt, too, in a
certain manner called upon to be natural and sensible at the same time.

The reigning Margrave, highly honored among the German Sovereigns as
one of their princely seniors, but more especially on account of the
excellent aims of his government, was glad to converse about matters
of political economy. The Margravine, active and well versed in the
arts and various useful branches of knowledge, was also pleased by some
graceful speeches to manifest a certain sympathy for us; for which
we were duly grateful, though when at home we could not refrain from
venting some severe remarks upon her miserable paper-manufactory, and
the favor she showed to the piratical bookseller Macklot.

The circumstance, however, of importance for me, was, that the
young duke of Saxe-Weimar had arrived here to enter into a formal
matrimonial engagement with his noble bride, the princess Louisa
of Hesse-Darmstadt; President von Moser had already arrived on the
same business, in order to settle this important contract with the
court-tutor Count Görtz, and fully to ratify it. My conversations
with both the high personages were most friendly, and at the farewell
audience, they both made me repeated assurances that it would be
pleasant to them to see me at Weimar.

Some private conversations with Klopstock, won me by the friendliness
they showed, and led me to use openness and candour with him. I
communicated to him the latest scenes of Faust, which he seemed to
approve of. Indeed, as I afterwards learned, he had spoken of them
to others with marked commendation, a thing not usual with him, and
expressed a wish to see the conclusion of the piece.

[Side-note: My Sister.]

Our former rudeness, though sometimes as we called it, our genius-like
demeanour, was kept, in something like a chaste restraint in
Carlsruhe, which is decent and almost holy ground. I parted from
my companions, as I had resolved to take a wide round and go to
Emmendingen, where my brother-in-law was high bailiff. I looked upon
this visit to my sister as a real trial. I knew that she had not a
happy existence, while there was no cause to find fault with her, with
her husband, or with circumstances. She was of a peculiar nature, of
which it is difficult to speak; we will endeavour, however, to set down
here whatever admits of being described.

A fine form was in her favor; but not so her features, which, although
expressing clearly enough, goodness, intelligence, and sensibility,
were nevertheless wanting in regularity and grace.

Add to this, that a high and strongly arched forehead, exposed still
more by the abominable fashion of dressing the hair back on the head,
contributed to leave a certain unpleasant impression, although it
bore the best testimony to her moral and intellectual qualities. I
can fancy, that if after the modern fashion, she had surrounded the
upper part of her face with curls, and clothed her temples and cheeks
with ringlets, she would have found herself more agreeable before the
mirror, without fear of displeasing others as well as herself. Then
there was the grave fault, that her skin was seldom clean, an evil
which from her youth up, by some demoniacal fatality, was most sure to
show itself on all festal occasions, and at concerts, balls, and other
parties.

In spite of these drawbacks she gradually made her way, however, as her
better and nobler qualities showed themselves more distinctly.

A firm character not easily controlled, a soul that sympathised and
needed sympathy, a highly cultivated mind, fine acquirements and
talents; some knowledge of languages and a ready pen--all these she
possessed--so that if she had been more richly favored with outward
charms, she would have been among the women most sought after in her
day.

Besides all this there is one strange thing to be mentioned: there was
not the slightest touch of sensual passion in her nature. She had grown
up with me, and had no other wish than to continue and pass her life
in this fraternal union. Since my return from the University we had
been inseparable; with the most unreserved confidence we shared all
our thoughts, feelings, and humors, and even the most incidental and
passing impressions of every accidental circumstance. When I went to
Wetzlar, the loneliness of the house without me seemed insupportable;
my friend Schlosser, neither unknown nor repugnant to the good girl,
stepped into my place. In him, unfortunately, the brotherly affection
changed into a decided, and to judge from his strictly conscientious
character, probably a first passion. Here there was found what people
call as good a match as could be wished, and my sister, after having
stedfastly rejected several good offers, but from insignificant men,
whom she always had an aversion to, allowed herself to be, I may well
say, talked into accepting him.

I must frankly confess that I have frequently indulged in fancies about
my sister's destiny, I did not like to think of her as the mistress of
a family, but rather as an Abbess, as the Lady Superior of some noble
community. She possessed every requisite for such a high position,
while she was wanting in all that the world deems indispensable in
its members. Over feminine souls she always exercised an irresistible
influence; young minds were gently attracted towards her, and she ruled
them by the spirit of her inward superiority. As she had in common
with me an universal tolerance for the good, the human, with all its
eccentricities, provided they did not amount to perversity, there was
mo need for seeking to conceal from her any idiosyncrasy which might
mark any remarkable natural talents, or for its owner feeling any
constraint in her presence; hence our parties, as we have seen before,
were always varied, free, ingenuous, and sometimes perhaps bordering
on boldness. My habit of forming intimacies with young ladies of a
respectful and obliging nature, without allowing any closer engagement
or relations to grow out of them, was mainly owing to my sister's
influence over me. And now the sagacious reader, who is capable of
reading into these lines what does not stand written in them, but is
nevertheless implied, will be able to form some conception of the
serious feelings with which I then set foot in Emmendingen.

But at my departure, after a short visit, a heavier load lay on my
heart, for my sister had earnestly recommended not to say enjoined
me, to break off my connection with Lili. She herself had suffered
much from along-protracted engagement; Schlosser, with his spirit
of rectitude, did not betroth himself to her, until he was sure of
his appointment under the Grand Duke of Baden; indeed, if one would
take it so, until he was actually appointed. The answer to his
application, however, was delayed in an incredible manner. If I may
express my conjecture on the matter, the brave Schlosser, able man
of business as he was, was nevertheless on account of his downright
integrity, desirable neither to the prince as a servant, immediately
in contact with himself, nor to the minister, who still less liked to
have so honest a coadjutor near to him. His expected and earnestly
desired appointment at Carlsruhe was never filled up. But the delay
was explained to me, when the place of Upper Bailiff in Emmendingen
became vacant, and he was instantly selected for it. Thus an office
of much dignity and profit was now intrusted to him, for which he had
shown himself fully competent. It seemed entirely suited to his taste,
his mode of action, to stand here alone to act according to his own
conviction, and to be held responsible for everything, whether for
praise or blame.

As no objections could be raised to his accepting this place, my sister
had to follow him, not indeed to a Court-residence, as she had hoped,
but to a place which must have seemed to her a solitude, a desert; to a
dwelling, spacious to be sure, with an official dignity, and stately,
but destitute of all chance of society. Some young ladies, with whom
she had cultivated an early friendship, followed her there, and as the
Gerock family was blessed with many daughters, these contrived to stay
with her in turn, so that, in the midst of such privation, she always
enjoyed the presence of at least one long-trusted friend.

These circumstances, these experiences, made her feel justified in
recommending to me, most earnestly, a separation from Lili. She thought
it hard to take such a young lady (of whom she had formed the highest
opinion) out of the midst of a lively, if not splendid circle, and to
shut her up in our old house, which, although very passable in its way,
was not suited for the reception of distinguished society, sticking
her, as it were, between a well-disposed, but unsociable, precise, and
formal father, and a mother extremely active in her domestic matters,
who, after the household business of the day was over would not like to
be disturbed over some notable bit of work by a friendly conversation
with forward and refined young girls. On the other hand, she in a
lively manner set Lili's position before me; for, partly in my letters,
partly in a confidential but impassioned conversation, I had told her
everything to a hair.

Unfortunately her conception was only a circumstantial and well-meant
completion of what a gossiping friend, in whom, by degrees, all
confidence ceased to be placed, had contrived by mentioning a few
characteristic traits to insinuate into her mind.

I could promise her nothing, although I was obliged to confess that she
had convinced me. I went on with that enigmatic feeling in my heart,
with which passion always nourishes itself; for the Child Cupid clings
obstinately to the garment of Hope, even when she is preparing with
long steps to flee away.

[Side-note: Schaffhausen--Zurich--Lavater.]

The only thing between this place and Zurich which I now clearly
remember, is the falls of the Rhine at Schaffhausen. A mighty cascade
here gives the indication of the mountainous region which we designed
to enter; where, each step becoming steeper and more difficult, we
should have laboriously to clamber up the heights.

The view of the lake of Zurich, which we enjoyed from the gate of the
"_Sword_," is still before me; I say from the gate of the tavern,
for, without stopping to enter it, I hastened to Lavater. He gave me
a cheerful and hearty reception, and was, I must confess, extremely
gracious; confiding, considerate, kind, and elevating was his bearing,
indeed, it would be impossible to expect anything else of him. His
wife, with somewhat singular, but serene tenderly pious expression of
countenance, fully harmonized, like everything else about him, with his
way of thinking and living.

Our first, and perhaps only theme of conversation, was his system of
Physiognomy. The first part of this remarkable work, was, if I mistake
not, already printed, or, at least, near its completion. It might be
said to be at once stamped with genius and yet empirical: methodical,
but still in its instances incomplete and partial. I was strangly
connected with it, Lavater wanted all the world for co-operators
and sympathizers. During his travels up the Rhine, he had portraits
taken of a great many distinguished men, in order to excite their
personal interest in a work in which they were to appear. He proceeded
in the same way with artists; he called upon every one to send him
drawings for illustrations. The latter came, and many were not exactly
suited for his purpose. So, too, he had copperplates engraved in all
parts, which seldom tinned out characteristic copies. Much labor had
been bestowed on his part; with money and exertions of all kinds an
important work was now ready, and full honor was done to Physiognomy.
But when in a great volume, illustrated by examples, Physiognomy,
founded on doctrine, was to set up its claims to the dignity of
science, it was found that not a single picture said what it ought to
say; all the plates had to be censured or to be taken with exceptions,
none to be praised, but only tolerated; many, indeed, were quite
altered by the explanations. For me, who in all my studies sought a
firm footing before I went further, I had now to perform one of the
most painful tasks which industry could be set to. Let the reader
judge. The manuscript, with impressions of the plates inserted was sent
to me at Frankfort. I was authorized to strike out whatever displeased
me, to change and put in what I liked. However I made a very moderate
use of this liberty. In one instance he had introduced a long and
violent piece of controversy against an unjust orator, which I left
out, and substituted a cheerful poem about nature; for this he scolded
me, but afterwards, when he had cooled down, approved of what I had
done.

Whoever turns over the four volumes of Physiognomy, and (what he will
not repent of) reads them, may conceive the interest there was in our
interviews, during which, as most of the plates contained in it were
already drawn and part of them had been engraved, we examined, and
decided on those fit to be inserted in the work, and considered the
ingenious means by which those, which did not exactly tally with its
principles, might be made instructive and suitable.

Whenever at present I look through the work of Lavater, a strange
comic, merry feeling comes over me; it seems as if I saw before me the
shadows of men formerly known to me, over whom I once fretted, and in
whom I find little satisfaction now.

The possibility, however, of retaining in some sort, much that
otherwise would have been unsuitable, was owing to the fine and
decided talent of the sketcher and engraver, Lips. He was, in fact,
born for the free prosaic representation of the actual, which was
precisely the thing wanted in this case. He worked under a singularly
exacting physiognomist, and therefore was obliged to look sharp to
approximate to the demands of his master; the clever peasant-boy felt
the whole responsibility of working for a clerical gentleman from a
city so highly privileged, and gave his best care to the business.

Living in a separate house from my companions, I became every day more
of a stranger to them, without the least unpleasant feeling having
arisen; our rural excursions were no longer made together, although in
the city we still kept up some intercourse. With all the arrogance of
young counts they had honored Lavater with a visit and appeared to the
skilful physiognomist somewhat different from what they did to the rest
of the world. He spoke to me about them, and I remember quite well,
that, speaking of Leopold Stolberg, he exclaimed: "I know not what you
all mean; he is a noble, excellent youth, and full of talent; but you
have described him to me as a hero, as a Hercules, and I have never in
my life seen a softer and more sensitive young man; nor, if need be,
one more easily influenced. I am still far from having formed a clear
physiognomical judgment of him, but as for you and all the rest, you
are in a fog altogether."

Since Lavater's journey on the Lower Rhine, the public interest in him
and his physiognomical studies had greatly increased; visitors of all
sorts crowded upon him, so that he felt in some sort embarrassed at
being looked upon as the first of spiritual and intellectual men, and
the chief point of attraction for strangers. Hence, to avoid envy and
all unpleasant feelings, he managed to remind and warn his visitors
that they must treat other distinguished men with friendship and
respect.

[Side-note: Visit to Bodmer.]

In this especial regard was had to the aged BODMER, and, accordingly,
we were compelled to visit him and pay our youthful respects to him. He
lived on a hill, above the large or old town, which lay on the right
bank, where the lake contracts its waters into the Limmat. We crossed
the old town, and, by a path that became steeper and steeper, at last
ascended the height behind the walls, where, between the fortifications
and the old wall, a pleasant suburb had sprang up, partly in
continuous and partly in detached houses, with a half country look. The
house where Bodmer had passed his whole life, stood in the midst of an
open and cheerful neighbourhood, which, the day being beautiful and
clear, we often paused on our road to survey with the greatest pleasure.

We were conducted up a flight of steps into a wainscoted chamber, where
a brisk old man, of middle stature, came to meet us. He received us
with his usual greeting to young visitors; telling us that we must
consider it an act of courtesy on his part to have delayed so long his
departure from this world in order that he might receive us kindly,
form our acquaintance, refresh himself with our talents, and wish us
joy in our future career.

We, on the other hand, congratulated him that, as a poet belonging to
the patriarchal world, he had yet in the neighbourhood of the most
highly cultivated city, possessed during his whole life a truly idyllic
dwelling, and, in the high free air, had enjoyed for so many long years
such a wide and beautiful prospect to feed his eyes with unfading
delight.

It seemed anything but displeasing to the old man when we asked
permission to take a view from his window of the neighbouring scenery;
and truly the prospect in the cheerful sunshine, and in the best season
of the year, appeared quite incomparable. The prospect commanded much
of the slope, from the great town down to the water's edge, as well
as the smaller town across the Limmat, and the whole of the fertile
Sihl-feld, towards the west. Behind us, on the left, was a part of
the lake of Zurich, with its bright rippled surface, and its shores
endlessly varying with alternating hill and valley and height after
height in greater variety than the eye could take in, which, dazzled
by this splendour, delighted to rest on the blue range of the loftier
mountains in the distance, whose snowy summits man has been so far
intimate with as to give names to.

The rapture of us young men at sight of the marvellous beauty which,
for so many years, had daily been before him, appeared to please the
old poet; he became, so to speak, ironically sympathizing, and we
parted the best of friends, but rot before a yearning for those blue
mountain heights had taken possession of our souls.

Now I am on the point of leaving our worthy patriarch, I remark,
for the first time, that I have as yet said nothing of his form and
countenance, of his movements, and his carriage and bearing.

In general, I do not think it quite right for travellers to describe
every distinguished man, whom they visit, as if they wanted to furnish
materials for advertising a runaway. No one sufficiently considers that
he has only looked at the great man during the moment of introduction,
and then only in his own way; and that according to the circumstances
of the moment the host may or not be what he seemed, proud or meek,
silent and talkative, cheerful or morose. In this particular case,
however, I may excuse myself from the attempt, by saying that no verbal
description of Bodmer's venerable person would convey an adequate
impression. Fortunately there exists a picture of him by Graff, of
Bause, which perfectly represents the man as he appeared to us, and,
indeed, exactly preserves his peculiar penetrating and reflective look.

[Side-note: Passavant--Lavater.]

A great, not indeed unexpected, but still highly coveted gratification
awaited me in Zurich, where I met my young friend, Passavant. Of a
respectable family of the reformed persuasion, and born in my native
city, he lived in Switzerland, at the fountain-head of the doctrine
which he was afterwards to proclaim as a preacher. With a frame not
large, but active, his face and his whole manner promised a quick and
agreeable resoluteness of character. His hair and beard were black, his
eyes lively. On the whole, you saw in him a man of some sensitiveness,
but of moderate energy.

Scarcely had we embraced one another and exchanged the first greeting,
when he immediately proposed to me to visit the smaller cantons. Having
himself already walked through them with great delight, he wished, with
the sight of them, to awaken my rapture and enthusiasm.

While I was talking over, with Lavater, the most interesting and
important points of our common business, until we had nearly exhausted
them, my lively fellow-travellers had already sallied forth in various
directions, and, in their own fashion, had examined the country.
Passavant, receiving and welcoming me with hearty friendship, believed
that he had gained thereby a right to the exclusive possession of my
society, and, therefore, in the absence of my companions, contrived
to entice me to the mountains, the more easily, since I was decidedly
inclined to accomplish the long desired ramble in quiet and at liberty
to follow my own whims. Without further deliberation, therefore, we
stepped into a boat and sailed up the glorious lake, on a fine clear
morning.

A poem inserted here may give the reader some intimation of those happy
moments:

    New draughts of strength and youthful blood,
      From this free world I've press'd;
    Here nature is so mild, so good--
      Who clasps me to her breast.
    The billows rock our little boat,
      The oars in measure beat,
    The hills, while clouds around them float,
      Approach our barque to meet.

    Eye, mine eye, why sink'st thou mourning?
    Golden dreams, are ye returning?
    Though thou'rt gold, thou dream, farewell;
    Here, too, life and love can dwell.

    Countless stars are blinking,
      In the waters here,
    On the mountains drinking
      Clouds of mist appear;
    Round the cool bay flying,
      Morning breezes wake,
    Ripen'd fruits are lying
      Mirror'd in the lake.

We landed in Richterswyl, where we had an introduction from Lavater to
Doctor HOTZE. As a physician, and a highly intelligent and benevolent
man, he enjoyed great esteem in his immediate neighbourhood and in the
whole country, and we can do no better honor to his memory than by
referring to a passage in Lavater's Physiognomy, which describes him.

After a very hospitable entertainment, which he relieved with a
highly agreeable and instructive conversation, describing to us the
next halting-places in our journey, we ascended the mountains which
lay before us. When we were about to descend again into the vale of
Schindellegi, we turned round to take in once more the charming
prospect over the lake of Zurich.

Of my feelings at that moment some idea may be gathered from the
following lines, which, just as I wrote them down, are still preserved
in a little memorandum book:

    Dearest Lili, if I did not love thee,
      I should revel in a scene like this!
    Yet, sweet Lili, if I did not love thee,
      What were any bliss?

This little impromptu seems to me more expressive in its present
context, than as it stands by itself in the printed collection of my
poems.

[Side-note: St. Mary's Hermitage.]

The rough roads, which led to St. Mary's hermitage, did not wear out
our good spirits. A number of pilgrims, whom we had remarked below
upon the lake, now overtook us and asked the aid of our prayers in
behalf of their pious object. We saluted them and let them pass,
and as they moved regularly with their hymns and prayers, they lent
a characteristic graceful animation to the dreary heights. We saw
livingly marked out the serpentine path which we too had to travel,
and seemed to be joyously following. The customs of the Romish church
are altogether significant and imposing to the Protestant, inasmuch
as he only recognises the inmost principle, by which they were first
called forth, the human element by which they are propagated from race
to race; thus penetrating at once to the kernel, without troubling
himself, just at the moment with the shell, the rind, or even with the
tree itself, its twigs, leaves, bark, and roots.

We now saw rising a dreary, treeless vale, the splendid church, the
cloister, of broad and stately compass, in the midst of a neat place of
sojourn for a large and varied assembly of guests.

The little church within the church, the former hermitage of the saint,
incrusted with marble, and transformed as far as possible into a
regular chapel, was something new to me; something that I had not seen,
this little vessel, surrounded and built over with pillars and vaults.
It could not but excite sober thoughts to reflect how a single spark of
goodness, and of the fear of God, had here kindled a bright and burning
flame, so that troops of believers, never ceased to make painful
pilgrimages in order to light their little tapers at this holy fire.
However the fact is to be explained, it plainly points at least to an
unbounded craving in man, for equal light, for equal warmth, with that
which this old hermit cherished and enjoyed in the deepest feeling and
the most secure conviction. We were shewn into the treasure chamber,
which was rich and imposing enough, and offered to the astonished eye
busts of the size of life, not to say colossal, of the saints and
founders of different orders.

A very different sort of feeling was awakened at the sight of a closet
opening upon this. It was filled with antique valuables here dedicated
and honored. My attention was fixed by various golden crowns of
remarkable workmanship, out of which I contemplated one exclusively. It
was a pointed crown, in the style of former days, such as one may have
seen in pictures on the heads of ancient queens, but of a most tasteful
design and of highly elaborate execution. The colored stones with which
it was studded were distributed over it or set opposite to each other,
with great effect and judgment; it was, in short, a work of that kind
which one would pronounce perfect at the first glance, without waiting
to bring out this impression by an appeal to the laws of art.

In such cases, where the art is not recognised, but felt, heart and
soul are turned towards the object, one would like to possess the
jewel, that one might impart pleasure to others with such a gift. I
begged permission to handle the little crown, and as I held it up
respectfully in my hand, I could not help thinking that I should like
to press it upon the bright, glittering locks of Lili, lead her before
the mirror, and witness her own joy in it, and the happiness which she
spread around her. I have often thought since, that this scene, if
realized by a skilful painter, would be highly touching and full of
meaning. It were worth one's while to be the young king to receive a
bride and a new kingdom in this way.

In order to show us all the treasures of the cloister, they led us into
a cabinet of natural and artificial curiosities. I had then but little
idea of the value of such things; at that time geognosy, which is so
commendable in itself, but which fritters away the impression produced
by the earth's beautiful surface on the mind's eye, had not begun to
entice me, still less had a fantastic geology entangled me in its
labyrinths. Nevertheless, the monk who acted as our guide, compelled
me to bestow some attention on a fossil, much prized as he said by
connoisseurs, a small wild boar's head well preserved in a lump of blue
fuller's clay, which, black as it was, has dwelt in my imagination ever
since. They had found it in the country of Rapperswyl, a district which
ever since the memory of man was so full of morasses, that it could
well receive and keep such mummies for posterity.

Far different attractions was presented to me by a copperplate
engraving of Martin Schön, which was kept under a glass frame, and
represented the Assumption of the Virgin. True, only a perfect specimen
could give an idea of the art of such a master; but then we are so
affected by it, as with the perfect in every branch of art, that we
cannot get rid of the wish to possess something in some way like it,
to be able constantly to repeat the sight of it, however long a time
may intervene. Why should I not anticipate and confess here, that
afterwards I could not rest until I had succeeded in obtaining an
excellent copy of this plate.

[Side-note: The Schwyzer-Haken.]

On the 16th of July, 1775 (for here I find a date first set down),
we entered upon a toilsome journey; wild stony heights were to be
surmounted, and that, too, in a perfect solitude and wilderness.
At a quarter before eight in the evening, we stood before the
Schwyzer-Haken, two mountain peaks which jut out boldly, side by side,
into the sky. For the first time we found snow upon our path, where
on the lagged rocks it had been hanging since the winter. A primeval
forest, with its solemn awe, filled the immense valleys, into which
we were about to descend. Refreshed, after a short rest, we sprang,
with bold and light step, from cliff to cliff, from ledge to ledge,
down the precipitous foot-path, and arrived by ten o'clock at Schwyz.
We had become at once weary yet cheerful, exhausted yet excited; we
eagerly quenched our violent thirst, and felt ourselves still more
inspired. Imagine the young man who but two years before had written
_Werther_, and his still younger friend who still earlier had read that
remarkable work in manuscript, and had been strangely excited by it,
had transported in some respect without their knowing it or wishing it,
into a state of nature, end there in the consciousness of rich powers,
vividly recalling past passions, clinging to those of the present,
shaping fruitless plans, rioting through the realm of fancy, and you
will be able to form some conception of our situation then, which I
should not know how to describe, if it did not stand written in my
journal: "Laughing and shouting lasted until midnight."

On the morning of the 17th, we saw the Schwyzer-Haken from our windows.
Around these vast and irregular natural pyramids, clouds rose upon
clouds. At one in the afternoon we left Schwyz, on our way to the Rigi;
at two we were on the Lawerzer lake, the sun shining brilliantly on it
and on us all the while. For sheer delight we saw nothing. Two stout
maidens guided the boat; that looked pretty, and we made no objection.
We arrived upon the island, on which they say once lived the former
lord of the castle; be this as it may, the hut of the anchorite has now
planted itself amidst the ruins.

We climbed the Rigi; at half-past seven we stood at the foot of the
"Mother of God" covered in snow; then passed the chapel and the
nunnery, and rested at the hotel of the Ox.

On the 18th, Sunday morning early, we took a sketch of the chapel
from the Ox. At twelve we went to Kaltenbad, or the fountain of the
Three Sisters. By a quarter after two we had reached the summit; we
found ourselves in the clouds, this time doubly disagreeable to us,
since they both hindered the prospect and drenched us with mist. But
when, here and there, they opened and showed us, framed as it were by
their ever-varying outline, a clear, majestic sun-lit world, with the
changing scenes of a diorama, we no longer lamented these accidents;
for it was a sight we had never seen before and should never behold
again, and we lingered long in this somewhat inconvenient position, to
catch, through the chinks and crevices of the ever-shifting masses of
cloud, some little point of sunny earth, some little strip of shore, or
pretty nook of the lake.

By eight in the evening we were back again at the door of the inn, and
refreshed ourselves with baked fish and eggs, and plenty of wine.

As the twilight and the night gradually came on, our ears were filled
with mysteriously harmonizing sounds; the twinkling of the chapel
bells, the splashing of the fountain, the rustling of changeful
breezes, with the horns of the foresters in the distance;--these were
blest, soothing, tranquillising moments.

[Side-note: William Tell.]

At half-past six, on the morning of the 19th, first ascending then
going down by the Waldstätter Lake we came to Fitznau; from thence, by
water, to Gersau. At noon, we were in the hotel on the lake. About two
o'clock we were opposite to Grütli, where the three Tells conspired;
then upon the flat rock where the hero sprang from his boat, and where
the legend of his life and deeds is recorded and immortalized by a
painting. At three we were at Flüelen, where he embarked; and at four
in Altorf, where he shot the apple.

Aided by this poetic thread one winds conveniently through the
labyrinth of these rocky walls which, descending perpendicularly to
the water, stand silently before us. They, the immovable, stand there
as quietly as the side-scenes of a theatre; success or failure, joy
or sorrow, merely pertain to the persons who for the day successively
strut upon the stage.

Such reflections, however, were wholly out of the circle of the vision
of the youths who then looked upon them; what had recently passed
had been dismissed from their thoughts, and the future lay before
them as strangely inscrutable, as the mountain region which they were
laboriously penetrating.

On the 20th, we breakfasted at Amstäg, where they cooked us a savoury
dinner of baked fish. Here now, on this mountain ledge, where the
Reuss, which was at all times wild enough, was rushing from rugged
clefts, and dashing the cool snow-water over the rocky channels, I
could not help enjoying the longed-for opportunity and refreshing
myself in the foaming waves.

At three o'clock we proceeded onwards; a row of sumpter-horses went
before us, we marched with them over a broad mass of snow, and did not
learn till afterwards, that it was hollow underneath. The snows of
winter, that had deposited themselves here in a mountain gorge, which
at other seasons it was necessary to skirt circuitously, now furnished
us with a shorter and more direct road. But the waters which forced
their way beneath had gradually undermined the snowy mass, and the mild
summer had melted more and more of the lower side of the vault, so
that now, like a broad arched bridge, it formed a natural connection
between the opposite sides. We convinced ourselves of this strange
freak of nature by venturing more than half way down into the broader
part of the gorge. As we kept ascending, we left pine forests in the
chasm, through which the Reuss from time to time appeared, foaming and
dashing over rocky precipices.

At half-past seven we arrived at Wasen, where, to render palatable the
red, heavy, sour Lombardy wine, we were forced to have recourse to
water, and to supply, by a great deal of sugar, the ingredient which
nature had refused to elaborate in the grape. The landlord showed us
some beautiful crystals; but I had, at that time, so little interest in
the study of nature and such specimens, that I did not care to burden
myself with these mountain products, however cheaply they might be
bought.

On the 21st, at half-past six, we were still ascending; the rocks grew
more and more stupendous and awful; the path to the _Teufelstein_
(Devil's Stone), from which we were to gain a view of the Devil's
Bridge, was still more difficult. My companion being disposed for a
rest, proposed me to sketch the most important views. My outlines were,
perhaps, tolerably successful, but nothing seemed to stand out, nothing
to retire into the distance; for such objects I had no language. We
toiled on further; the horrors of the wilderness seemed continually
to deepen, planes became hills, and hollows chasms. And so my guide
conducted me to the cave of Ursern, through which I walked in somewhat
of an ill humor; what we had seen thus far was, at any rate, sublime,
this darkness took everything away.

But the roguish guide anticipated the joyful astonishment which would
overwhelm me on my egress. There the moderately foaming stream wound
mildly through a level vale surrounded by mountains, but wide enough
to invite habitation. Above the clean little village of Ursern and its
church, which stood opposite to us on a level plot, rose a pine-grove
which was held sacred, because it protected the inhabitants at its
foot from the rolling of the avalanches. Here we enjoyed the sight of
long-missed vegetation. The meadows of the valley, just beginning to
look green, were adorned along the river side with short willows The
tranquillity was great; upon the level paths we felt our powers revive
again, and my fellow-traveller was not a little proud of the surprise
which he had so skilfully contrived.

The meadows produce the celebrated Ursern cheese, and the youthful
travellers, high in spirits, pronounced very tolerable wine not to be
surpassed in order to heighten their enjoyment, and to give a more
fantastic impulse to their projects.

On the 22nd, at half-past three, we left our quarters, that from the
smooth Ursern valley we might enter upon the stony valley of Liviner.
Here, too, we at once missed all vegetation; nothing was to be seen or
heard but naked or mossy rocks covered with snow, fitful gusts blowing
the clouds backwards and forwards, the rustling of waterfalls, the
tinkling of sumpter-horses in the depth of solitude, where we saw none
coming and none departing. It did not cost the imagination much to
see dragons' nests in the clefts. But, nevertheless, we felt inspired
and elevated by one of the most beautiful and picturesque waterfalls,
sublimely various in all its rocky steps, which, being at this time of
the year enriched by melted snows, and now half hidden by the clouds,
now half revealed, chained us for some time to the spot.

[Side-note: The Hospice.]

Finally, we came to little mist-lakes, as I might call them, since
they were scarcely to be distinguished from the atmospheric streaks.
Before long, a building loomed towards us out of the vapour: it was the
Hospice, and we felt great satisfaction at the thoughts of sheltering
ourselves under its hospitable roof.


[1] Hanswurst is the old German buffoon, whose name answers to the
English "Jack Pudding."--Tr.




NINETEENTH BOOK.


Announced by the low barking of a little dog which ran out to meet us,
we were cordially received at the door by an elderly but active female.
She apologised for the absence of the Pater, who had gone to Milan,
but was expected home that evening; and immediately, without any more
words, set to work to provide for our comfort and wants. We were shown
into a warm and spacious room, where bread, cheese, and some passable
wine were set before us, with the promise of a more substantial meal
for our supper. The surprise of the day was now talked over, and my
friend was not a little proud that all had gone off so well, and that
we had passed a day the impressions of which neither poetry nor prose
could ever reproduce.

At length with the twilight, which did not here come on till late, the
venerable father entered the room, greeted his guests with dignity
but in a friendly and cordial manner, and in a few words ordered the
cook to pay all possible attention to our wishes. When we expressed
the wonder we could not repress, that he could like to pass his life
up here, in the midst of such a perfect wilderness, out of the reach
of all society, he assured us that society was never wanting, as our
own welcome visit might testify. A lively trade, he told us, was kept
up between Italy and Germany. This continual traffic brought him into
relation with the first mercantile houses. He often went down to Milan,
and also to Lucerne, though not so frequently, from which place,
however, the houses which had charge of the posting on the main route,
frequently sent young people to him, who, here at the point of passage
between the two countries, required to be made acquainted with all the
circumstances and events connected with such affairs.

Amid such varied conversation the evening passed away, and we slept a
quiet night on somewhat short sleeping-places, fastened to the wall,
and more like shelves than bedsteads.

[Side-note: Distant View of Italy.]

Rising early, I soon found myself under the open sky, but in a narrow
space surrounded by tall mountain-tops. I sat down upon the foot-path
which led to Italy, and attempted, after the manner of dilettanti,
to draw what could not be drawn, still less make a picture, namely,
the nearest mountain-tops, whose sides, with their white furrows and
black ridges, were gradually made visible by the melting of the snow.
Nevertheless, that fruitless effort has impressed the image indelibly
on my memory.

My companion stepped briskly up to me, and began: "What say you of the
story of our spiritual host, last evening? Have not you as well as
myself, felt a desire to descend from this dragon's height into those
charming regions below? A ramble through these gorges must be glorious
and not very toilsome; and when it ends with Bellinzona, what a
pleasure that must be! The words of the good father have again brought
a living image before my soul of the isles of the Lago Maggiore. We
have heard and seen so much of them since Keyssler's travels, that I
cannot resist the temptation."

"Is it not so with you too?" he resumed; "you are sitting on exactly
the right spot; I stood there once, but had not the courage to jump
down. You can go on without ceremony, wait for me at Airolo, I will
follow with the courier when I have taken leave of the good father and
settled everything."

"Such an enterprise," I replied, "so suddenly undertaken, does not suit
me." "What's the use of deliberating so much?" cried he; "we have money
enough to get to Milan, where we shall find credit; through our fair, I
know more than one mercantile friend there." He grew still more urgent.
"Go!" said I, "and make all ready for the departure, then we will
decide."

In such moments it seems to me as if a man feels no resolution in
himself, but is rather governed and determined by earlier impressions.
Lombardy and Italy lay before me, altogether foreign land; while
Germany, as a well-known dear home, full of friendly, domestic scenes,
and where, let me confess it,--was that which had so long entirely
enchained me, and on which my existence was centred, remained even
now the most indispensable element, beyond the limits of which I felt
afraid to step. A little golden heart, which in my happiest hours, I
had received from her, still hung love-warmed about my neck, suspended
by the same ribbon to which she had tied it. Snatching it from my
bosom, I loaded it with kisses. This incident gave rise to a poem,
which I here insert:--

    Round my neck, suspended, as a token
    Of those joys, that swiftly pass'd away,
    Art thou here that thou may'st lengthen love's short day,
    Still binding, when the bond of souls is broken?

    Lili, from thee I fly; yet I am doom'd to feel
    Thy fetters still,
    Though to strange vales and mountains I depart,
    Yes, Lili's heart must yet remain
    Attached to _my_ fond heart.

    Thus the bird, snapping his string in twain,
    Seeks his wood,--his own,
    Still a mark of bondage bearing,
    Of that string a fragment wearing.
    The old--the free-born bird--he cannot be again,
    When once a master he has known.

Seeing my Mend with the guide, who carried our knapsack, come storming
up the heights, I rose hastily and removed from the precipice, where
I had been watching his return, lest he should drag me down into the
abyss with him. I also saluted the pious father, and turned, without
saying a word, to the path by which we had come. My friend followed
me, somewhat hesitating, and in spite of his love and attachment to
me, kept for a long time at a distance behind, till at last a glorious
waterfall brought us again together for the rest of our journey, and
what had been once decided, was from henceforth looked upon as the
wisest and the best.

Of our descent I will only remark that we now found the snow-bridge,
over which we had securely travelled with a heavy-laden train a
few days before, all fallen in, and that now, as we had to make a
circuit round the opened thicket, we were filled with astonishment
and admiration by the colossal fragments of that piece of natural
architecture.

My friend could not quite get over his disappointment at not returning
into Italy; very likely he had thought of the plan some time before,
and with amiable cunning had hoped to surprise me on the spot. On this
account our return did not proceed so merrily as our advance; but I was
occupied all the more constantly on my silent route, with trying to
fix, at least in its more comprehensible and characteristic details,
that sense of the sublime and vast, which, as time advances, usually
grows contracted in our minds.

[Side-note: Küssnacht--Tell.]

Not without many both new and renewed emotions and reflections did we
pass over the remarkable heights about the Vierwaldstätter Lake, on
our way to Küssnacht, where having landed and pursued our ramble, we
had to greet Tell's chapel, which lay on our route, and to reflect
upon that assassination which, in the eyes of the whole world, is so
heroical, patriotic, and glorious. So, too, we sailed over the Zuger
Lake, which we had seen in the distance as we looked down from Rigi.
In Zug, I only remember some painted glass, inserted into the casement
of a chamber of the inn, not large to be sure, but excellent in its
way. Our route then led over the Albis into the Sihl valley, where, by
visiting a young Hanoverian, Von Lindau, who delighted to live there
in solitude, we sought to mitigate the vexation which he had felt some
time before in Zurich, at our declining the offer of his company not
in the most friendly or polite manner. The jealous friendship of the
worthy Passavant was really the reason of my rejecting the truly dear,
but inconvenient presence of another.

But before we descend again from these glorious heights, to the lake
and to the pleasantly situated city, I must make one more remark
upon my attempts to carry away some idea, of the country by drawing
and sketching. A habit from youth upward of viewing a landscape as
a picture, led me, whenever I observed any picturesque spot in the
natural scenery, to try and fix it, and so to preserve a sure memorial
of such moments. But having hitherto only exercised myself on confined
scenes, I soon felt the incompetency of my art for such a world.

The haste I was in at once compelled me to have recourse to a singular
expedient: scarcely had I noticed an interesting object, and with
light and very sketchy strokes drawn the outlines on the paper, than
I noted down, in words, the particular objects which I had no time to
catch and fill up with the pencil, and, by this means, made the scenes
so thoroughly present to my mind, that every locality, whenever I
afterwards wanted it for a poem or a story, floated at once before me
and was entirely at my command.

On returning to Zurich, I found the Stolbergs were gone; their stay in
this city had been cut short in a singular manner.

It must be confessed that travellers upon removing to a distance from
the restraints of home, are only too apt to think they are stepping
not only into an unknown, but into a perfectly free world; a delusion
which it was the more easy to indulge in at this time, as there was
not as yet any passports to be examined by the police, or any tolls
and suchlike checks and hindrances on the liberty of travellers, to
remind men that abroad they are subject to still worse and more painful
restraints than at home.

If the reader will only bear in mind this decided tendency to realize
the freedom of nature, he will be able to pardon the young spirits who
regarded Switzerland as the very place in which to "Idyllize" the fresh
independence of youth. The tender poems of Gessner, as well as his
charming sketches, seemed decidedly to justify this expectation.

In fact, bathing in wide waters, seems to be one of the best
qualifications for expressing such poetic talents. Upon our journey
thus far, such natural exercises had not seemed exactly suitable to
modern customs, and we had, in some degree, abstained from them. But,
in Switzerland, the sight of the cool stream,--flowing, running,
rushing, then gathering on the plain, and gradually spreading out to a
lake,--presented a temptation that was not to be resisted. I can not
deny that I joined my companions in bathing in the clear lake, but we
chose a spot far enough, as we supposed, from all human eyes. But naked
bodies shine a good way, and whoever chanced to see us doubtless took
offence.

[Side-note: Anecdote of the Stolbergs.]

The good innocent youths who thought it nowise shocking to see
themselves half naked, like poetic shepherds, or entirely naked, like
heathen deities, were admonished by their friends to leave off all
such practices. They were given to understand that they were living
not in primeval nature, but in a land where it was esteemed good and
salutary to adhere to the old institutions and customs which had
been handed down from the middle ages. They were not disinclined to
acknowledge the propriety of all this, especially as the appeal was
made to the middle ages, which, to them, seemed venerable as a second
nature. Accordingly, they left the more public lake shores, but when
in their walks through the mountains, they fell in with the clear,
rustling, refreshing streams, it seemed to them impossible, in the
middle of July, to abstain from the refreshing exercise. Thus, on
their wide sweeping walks, they came also to the shady vale, where the
Sihl, streaming behind the Albis, shoots down to empty itself into
the Limmat below Zurich. Far from every habitation, and even from all
trodden foot-paths, they thought there could be no objection here to
their throwing off their clothes and boldly meeting the foaming waves.
This was not indeed done without a shriek, without a wild shout of joy,
excited partly by the chill and partly by the satisfaction, by which
they thought to consecrate these gloomy, wooded rocks into an Idyllic
scene.

But, whether persons previously ill-disposed had crept after them,
or whether this poetic tumult called forth adversaries even in the
solitude, cannot be determined. Suffice it to say, stone after stone
was thrown at them from the motionless bushes above, whether by one or
more, whether accidentally or purposely, they could not tell; however,
they thought it wisest to renounce the quickening element and look
after their clothes.

No one got hit; they sustained no injury but the moral one of surprise
and chagrin, and full of young life as they were, they easily shook off
the recollection of this awkward affair.

But the most disagreeable consequences fell upon Lavater, who was
blamed for having given so friendly a welcome to such saucy youths, as
even to have arranged walks with them, and otherwise to shew attention
to persons whose wild, unbridled, unchristian, and even heathenish
habits, had caused so much scandal to a moral and well-regulated
neighbourhood.

Our clever friend, however, who well knew how to smooth over such
unpleasant occurrences, contrived to hush up this one also, and after
the departure of these meteoric travellers, we found, on our return,
peace and quiet restored.

In the fragment of Werther's travels, which has lately been reprinted
in the sixteenth volume of my works, I have attempted to describe this
contrast of the commendable order and legal restraint of Switzerland,
with that life of nature which youth in its delusions so loudly
demands. But, as people generally are apt to take all that the poet
advances without reserve for his decided opinions, or even didactic
censure, so the Swiss were very much offended at the comparison, and
I, therefore, dropped the intended continuation, which was to have
represented, more or less in detail, Werther's progress up to the
epoch of his sorrows, and which, therefore, would certainly have been
interesting to those who wish to study mankind.

Arrived at Zurich, I devoted my time almost exclusively to Lavater,
whose hospitality I again made use of. The Physiognomy, with all its
portraits and monstrous caricatures, weighed heavily and with an
ever-increasing load on the shoulders of the worthy man. We arranged
all as well as we could under the circumstances, and I promised him, on
my return home, to continue my assistance.

I was led to give this promise by a certain youthful unlimited
confidence in my own quickness of comprehension, and still more by a
feeling of my readiness of adaptation to any subject; for, in truth,
the way in which Lavater dissected physiognomies was not at all in my
vein. The impression which at our first meeting, he had made upon me,
determined, in some degree, my relation to him; although a general wish
to oblige which was always strong, joined to the light-heartedness of
youth, had a great share in all my actions by causing me to see things
in a certain twilight atmosphere.

Lavater's mind was altogether an imposing one; in his society it
was impossible to resist his decided influence, and I had no choice
but to submit to it at once and set to work observing foreheads and
noses, eyes and mouths, in detail, and weighing their relations and
proportions. My fellow observer did this from necessity, as he had to
give a perfect account of what he himself had discerned so clearly; but
to me it always seemed like a trick, a piece of espionage, to attempt
to analyse a man into his elements before his face, and so to get upon
the track of his hidden moral peculiarities. I had more pleasure in
listening to his conversation, in which he unveiled himself at will.
And yet, I must confess, I always felt a degree of constraint in
Lavater's presence; for, while by his art of physiognomy, he possessed
himself of our peculiarities, he also made himself, by conversation,
master of our thoughts, which, with a little sagacity, he would easily
guess from our variety of phrases.

He who feels a pregnant synthesis in himself, has peculiarly a right to
analyse, since by the outward particulars he tests and legitimizes his
inward whole. How Lavater managed in such cases, a single example will
suffice to show.

[Side-note: Lavater--His Character and Works.]

On Sundays, after the sermon, it was his duty, as an ecclesiastic,
to hold the short-handled, velvet, alms-bag before each one who went
out, and to bless as he received the pious gift. Now, on a certain
Sunday he proposed to himself, without looking at the several persons
as they dropped in their offerings, to observe only their hands, and
by them, silently, to judge of the forms of their owner. Not only the
shape of the finger, but its peculiar action in dropping the gift,
was attentively noted by him, and he had much to communicate to me on
the conclusions he had formed. How instructive and exciting must such
conversations have been to one, who also was seeking to qualify himself
for a painter of men!

Often in my after life had I occasion to think of Lavater, who was
one of the best and worthiest men that I ever formed so intimate
a relation with. These notices of him that I have introduced in
this work were accordingly written at various times. Following our
divergent tendencies, we gradually became strangers to each other,
and yet I never could bring myself to part with the favorable idea
which his worth had left upon my mind. In thought I often brought him
before me, and thus arose these leaves, which, as they were written
without reference to and independently of each other, may contain some
repetitions, but, it is hoped, no contradictions.

       *       *       *       *       *

By his cast of mind, Lavater was a decided realist, and knew of nothing
ideal except in a moral form; by keeping this remark steadily in mind,
you will most readily understand this rare and singular man.

His _Prospects of Eternity_ look merely for a continuance of the
present state of existence, under easier conditions than those which we
have now to endure. His _Physiognomy_ rests on the conviction that the
sensible corresponds throughout with the spiritual, and is not only an
evidence of it, but indeed its representative.

The ideals of art found little favor with him, because with his sharp
look he saw too clearly the impossibility of such conceptions ever
being embodied in a living organization, and he therefore banished them
into the realm of fable, and even of monstrosity.

His incessant demand for a realization of the ideal gained him the
reputation of a visionary, although he maintained and felt convinced
that no man insisted more strongly on the actual than he did;
accordingly, he never could detect the error in his mode of thinking
and acting.

Seldom has there been a man who strove more passionately than he did
for public recognition, and thus he was particularly fitted for a
teacher; but if all his labors tended to the intellectual and moral
improvement of others, this was by no means their ultimate aim.

To realize the character of Christ was what he had most at heart;
hence that almost insane zeal of his to have pictures of Christ drawn,
copied, moulded, one after another; none of which, however, as to be
expected, ever satisfied him.

His writings are hard to understand, even now, for it is far from easy
to penetrate into his precise meaning. No one ever wrote so much of
the times, and for the times, as Lavater; his writings are veritable
journals, which in an especial manner require to be explained by the
history of the day; they, moreover, are written in the language of a
coterie, which one must first acquaint oneself with, before we can
hold communion with them, otherwise many things will appear stupid and
absurd even to the most intelligent reader. Indeed, objections enough
of the kind have been made against this author, both in his lifetime
and since.

Thus, for example, with our rage for dramatizing and representing under
this form all that struck us, and caring for no other, we once so
warmed his brain with a dramatic ardour, that, in his _Pontius Pilate_,
he labored very hard to show that there is no more dramatic work than
the Bible; and, especially, that the history of Christ's Passion must
be regarded as the drama of all dramas.

In this chapter, and indeed throughout the work, Lavater appears
greatly to resemble Father Abraham of Santa Clara; for into this manner
every richly gifted mind necessarily falls who wishes to work upon his
contemporaries. He must acquaint himself with existing tendencies and
passions, with the speech and terminology of the day, and adapt them
to his ends, in order to approach the mass whom he seeks to influence.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Side-note: Lavater--His Character and Works.]

Since Lavater took Christ literally,--as described by the Scriptures,
and by most commentators,--he let this representation serve so far
for the supplement of his own being, that he ideally incorporated the
God-man into his own individual humanity, until he finally was able to
imagine himself melted into one and united with him, and, indeed, to
have become the same person.

This decidedly literal faith had also worked in him a perfect
conviction that miracles can be wrought to-day as well as heretofore.
Accordingly, since in some important and trying emergencies of his
earlier days, he had by means of earnest and indeed violent prayer,
succeeded in procuring an instantaneous and favorable turn of the
impending calamity, no mere cold objections of the reasoning intellect
would make him for a moment waver in this faith. Penetrated, moreover,
by the idea of the greatness and excellence of Humanity as restored by
Christ, and through Him destined to a blissful immortality, but, at
the same time, fully sensible of the manifold requisitions of man's
heart and mind, and of his insatiable yearnings after knowledge, and,
moreover, feeling in himself that desire of expanding himself into the
infinite to which the starry heavens seem so sensibly to invite us, he
wrote under these feelings Iris "_Prospects of Eternity_," which must
have appeared a very strange book indeed to the greater part of his
contemporaries.

All this striving, however, all wishes, all undertakings, were
overborne by the genius for physiognomy, which nature had bestowed upon
him. For, as the touchstone, by its blackness and peculiar roughness of
surface, is eminently fitted to distinguish between the metals which
are applied to it; so that pure idea of humanity, which Lavater carried
within himself, and that sharp yet delicate gift of observation, which
at first he exercised from natural impulse occasionally only and
accidentally, but afterwards with deliberate reflection and regularly,
qualified him in the highest degree to note the peculiarities of
individual men, and to understand, distinguish, and express them.

Every talent which rests on a decided natural gift, seems from our
inability to subordinate either it or its operations to any idea to
have something of magic about it. And, in truth, Lavater's insight into
the characters of individuals surpassed all conception; one was utterly
amazed at his remarks, when in confidence we were talking of this or
that person; nay, it was frightful to live near a man who clearly
discerned the nicest limits by which nature had been pleased to modify
and distinguish our various personalities.

Every one is apt to believe that what he possesses himself may be
communicated to others; and so Lavater was not content to make use of
this great gift for himself alone, but insisted that it might be found
and called forth in others, nay that it might even be imparted to the
great mass. The many dull and malicious misinterpretations, the stupid
jests in abundance, and detracting railleries, this striking doctrine
gave rise to, may still be remembered by some men; however, it must be
owned that the worthy man himself was not altogether without blame in
the matter. For though a high moral sense preserved the unity of his
inner being, yet, with his manifold labors, he was unable to attain
to outward unity, since he did not possess the slightest capacity for
philosophical method, nor for artistic talent.

He was neither Thinker nor Poet; indeed, not even an orator, in the
proper sense of the term. Utterly unable to take a comprehensive
and methodical view, he nevertheless formed an unerring judgment of
individual cases and these he noted down boldly side by side. His great
work on Physiognomy is a striking proof and illustration of this. In
himself, the idea of the moral or of the sensual man might form a
whole; but out of himself he could not represent this idea, except
practically by individual cases, in the same way as he himself had
apprehended them in life.

That very work sadly shows us how in the commonest matter of experience
so sharp-sighted a man, may go groping about him. For after spending
an immense sum and employing every artist and botcher living, he
procured at last drawings and engravings, which were so far without
character, that he is obliged in his work to say after each one that
it is more or less a failure, unmeaning and worthless. True, by this
means, he sharpened his own judgment, and the judgment of others; but
it also proves that his mental bias led him rather to heap up cases of
experience, than to draw from them any clear and sober principle. For
this reason he never could come to results, though I often pressed him
for them. What in later life he confided as such to his friends, were
none to me; for they consisted of nothing more than a collection of
certain lines and features, nay, warts and freckles, with which he had
seen certain moral, and frequently immoral, peculiarities associated.
There were certainly some remarks among them that surprised and
riveted your attention; but they formed no series, one thing followed
another accidentally, there was no gradual advance towards any general
deductions and no reference to any principles previously established.
And indeed there was just as little of literary method or artistic
feeling to be found in his other writings, which invariably contained
passionate and earnest expositions of his thoughts and objects, and
supplied by the most affecting and appropriate instances, what they
could not accomplish by the general conception.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Side-note: Abuse of the Term--Genius.]

The following reflections, as they refer to those circumstances, may be
aptly introduced here.

No one willingly concedes superiority to another, so long as he can
in any way deny it. Natural gifts of every kind can the least be
denied, and yet by the common mode of speaking in those times, genius
was ascribed to the poet alone. But another world seemed all at once
to rise up; genius was looked for in the physician, in the general,
in the statesman, and before long, in all men, who thought to make
themselves eminent either in theory or practice. Zimmerman, especially,
had advanced these claims. Lavater, by his views of Physiognomy, was
compelled to assume a more general distribution of mental gifts by
nature; the word genius became a universal symbol, and because men
heard it uttered so often, they thought that what was meant by it, was
habitually at hand. But then, since every one felt himself justified
in demanding genius of others, he finally believed that he also must
possess it himself. The time was yet far distant when it could be
affirmed, that genius is that power of man which by its deeds and
actions gives laws and rules. At this time it was thought to manifest
itself only, by overstepping existing laws, breaking established
rules, and declaring itself above all restraint. It was, therefore,
an easy thing to be a genius, and nothing was more natural than that
extravagance both of word and deed should provoke all orderly men to
oppose themselves to such a monster.

When anybody rushed into the world on foot, without exactly knowing why
or whither, it was called a pass of genius; and when any one undertook
an aimless and useless absurdity, it was a stroke of genius. Young
men, of vivacious and true talents, too often lost themselves in the
limitless; and then older men of understanding, wanting perhaps in
talent and in soul, found a most malicious gratification in exposing to
the public gaze, their manifold and ludicrous miscarriages.

For my part, in the development and the expression of my own ideas,
I perhaps experienced far more hindrance and checks from the false
co-operation and interference of the like-minded, than by the
opposition of those whose turn of mind was directly contrary to my own.

With a strange rapidity, words, epithets, and phrases, which have once
been cleverly employed to disparage the highest intellectual gifts,
spread by a sort of mechanical repetition among the multitude, and in
a short time they are to be heard everywhere, even in common life, and
in the mouths of the most uneducated; indeed before long they even
creep into dictionaries. In this way the word genius had suffered so
much from misrepresentation, that it was almost desired to banish it
entirely from the German language.

And so the Germans, with whom the common voice is more apt to prevail
than with other nations, would perhaps have sacrificed the fairest
flower of speech, the word which, though apparently foreign, really
belongs to every people, had not the sense for what is highest and best
in man, been happily restored and solidly established by a profounder
philosophy.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the preceding pages mention has been frequently made of the youthful
times of two men, whose memory will never hide from the history of
German literature and morals. At this period, however, we came to
know them as it were only by the errors into which they were misled
by a false maxim which prevailed among their youthful contemporaries.
Nothing, therefore, can be more proper than with due appreciation and
respect to paint their natural form, their peculiar individuality, just
as it appeared at that time, and as their immediate presence exhibited
itself to the penetrating eye of Lavater. Consequently, since the heavy
and expensive volumes of the great work on Physiognomy are probably
accessible to a few only of our readers, I have no scruple in inserting
here the remarkable passages of that work, which refer to both the
Stolbergs, in the second part and its thirtieth fragment, page 224:

[Side-note: Lavater's Sketch of the Stolbergs.]

"The young men, whose portraits and profiles we have here before us,
are the first men who ever sat and stood to me for physiognomical
description, as another would sit to a painter for his portrait.

"I knew them before, the noble ones--and I made the first attempt, in
accordance with nature and with all my previous knowledge, to observe
and to describe their character.

"Here is the description of the whole man.--

FIRST, OF THE YOUNGER.

"See the blooming youth of 25! the lightly-floating, buoyant, elastic
creature! it does not lie; it does not stand; it does not lean; it does
not fly; it floats or swims. Too full of life, to rest; too supple to
stand firm; too heavy and too weak, to fly.

"A floating thing, then, which does not touch the earth! In its whole
contour not a single slack line; but on the other hand no straight one,
no tense one, none firmly arched or stiffly curved; no sharp entering
angles, no rock-like projection of the brow; no hardness; no stiffness;
no defiant roughness; no threatening insolence; no iron will--all
is elastic, winning, but nothing iron; no stedfast and searching
profundity; no slow reflection, or prudent thoughtfulness; nowhere the
reasoner with the scales held firmly in the one hand, and the sword in
the other; and yet not the least formality in look or judgment! but
still the most perfect straight-forwardness of intellect, or rather
the most immaculate sentiment of truth! Always the inward feeler,
never the deep thinker; never the discoverer, the testing unfolder of
truth so quickly seen, so quickly known, so quickly loved, and quickly
grasped.... Perpetual soarer, a seer; idealizer; beautifier;--that
gives a shape and form, to all his ideas! Ever the half-intoxicated
poet, seeing only what he will see;--not the sorrowfully languishing;
not the sternly crushing; but the lofty, noble, powerful! who with
'thirst for the sun' (_Sonnendurst_), hovers to and fro in the regions
of air, strives aloft, and again--_sinks_ not to earth! but throws
himself headlong to earth, bather in the floods of the 'Rock-stream'
(_Felsenstrom_), and cradles himself 'in the thunder of the echoing
rocks around' (_Im Donner der hallenden Felsen umher_). His glance--not
the fire-glance of the eagle! His brow and nose--not the courage of the
lion! his breast--not the stedfastness of the steed that neighs for
battle! In the whole, however, there is much of the tearing activity of
the elephant....

"The projecting upper lip slightly drawn up towards the over-hanging
nose, which is neither sharply cut, nor angular, evinces, with such a
closing of the mouth, much taste and sensibility; while the lower part
of the face bespeaks much sensuality, indolence, and thoughtlessness.
The whole outline of the profile shows openness, honesty, humanity,
but at the same tune a liability to be led astray, and a high degree
of that good-hearted indiscretion, which injures no one but himself.
The middle line of the mouth bespeaks in its repose, a downright,
planless, weak, good-natured disposition; when in motion, a tender,
finely-feeling, exceedingly susceptible, benevolent, noble man. In the
arch of the eyelids, and in the glance of the eyes, there sits not
Homer, but the deepest, most thorough, and most quick feeling, and
comprehension of Homer; not the epic, but the lyric poet; genius, which
fuses, moulds, creates, glorifies, hovers, transforms all into a heroic
form--which deifies all. The half-closed eyelids, from such an arch,
indicate the keenly sensitive poet, rather than the slowly laboring
artist, who creates after a plan; the whimsical rather than the severe.
The full face of the youth is much more taking and attractive, than
the somewhat too loose, too protracted half-face; the fore-part of the
face in its slightest motion, tells of a highly sensitive, thoughtful,
inventive, untaught, inward goodness, of a softly tremulous,
wrong-abhorring love of liberty--an eager vivacity. It cannot conceal
from the commonest observer the slightest impression which it receives
for the moment, or adopts for ever. Every object, which nearly concerns
or interests him, drives the blood into the cheeks and nose; where
honor is concerned, the most maidenly blush of shame spreads like
lightning over the delicately sensitive skin.

[Side-note: Lavater's Sketch of the Stolbergs.]

"The complexion is not the pale one of all-creating, all-consuming
genius; not the wildly glowing one of the contemptuous destroyer;
not the milk-white one of the blond; not the olive one of the strong
and hardy; not the brownish one of the slowly plodding peasant; but
the white, the red, and the violet, running one into another, and so
expressively, and so happily, blended together like the strength and
weakness of the whole character. The soul of the whole and of each
single feature is freedom, and elastic activity, which springs forth
easily and is as easily repulsed. The whole fore-face and the way
the head is carried, promise magnanimity and upright cheerfulness.
Incorruptible sensibility, delicacy of taste, purity of mind, goodness
and nobleness of soul, active power, a feeling of strength and of
weakness, shine out so transparently through the whole face, that what
were otherwise a lively self-complacency dissolves itself into a noble
modesty, and most artlessly and unconstrainedly the natural pride and
vanity of youth melt with the loveliness of twilight into the easy
majesty of the whole man. The whitish hair, the length and awkwardness
of form, the softness and lightness of step, the hesitating gait, the
flatness of the breast, the fair unfurrowed brow, and various other
features spread over the whole man a certain feminine air, by which
the inward quickness of action is moderated, and every intentional
offence and every meanness made for ever impossible to the heart; but
at the same time clearly evincing that the spirited and fiery poet,
with all his unaffected thirst for freedom and for emancipation, is
neither destined to be a man of business, thoroughly persistent, who
steadily and resolutely carries out his plans, or to become immortal
in the bloody strife. And now, in conclusion, I remark, for the first
time, that I have as yet said nothing of the most striking trait--the
noble simplicity, free from all affectation! Nothing of his childlike
openness of heart! Nothing of the entire unconsciousness of his outward
nobility! Nothing of the inexpressible _bonhommie_ with which he
accepts and bears reproaches or warnings, nay, even accusations and
wrongful charges.

"But who can find an end, who will undertake to tell all that he sees
or feels in a good man, in whom there is so much pure humanity?"

DESCRIPTION OF THE ELDER STOLBERG.

"What I have said of the younger brother--how much of it may be
said also of the elder! The principal thing I have to remark is the
following:--

"This figure and this character are more compact and less diffuse
than the former. There all was longer or flatter; here all is
shorter, broader, more arched, and rounded; there all was vague; here
everything is more precise and sharply defined. So the brow; so the
nose; so the breast: more compressed, more active, less diffuse, more
of concentrated life and power! For the rest, the same amiableness
and _bonhommie!_ Not that striking openness, rather more of reserve,
but in principle, or rather in deed, the same honorable tone. The
same invincible abhorrence of injustice and baseness; the same
irreconcilable hatred of all that is called cunning and trickery; the
same unyielding opposition to tyranny and despotism; the same pure,
incorruptible sensibility to all that is noble, and great, and good;
the same need of friendship and of freedom, the same sensitiveness
and noble thirst for glory; the same catholicity of heart for all
good, wise, sincere, and energetic men, renowned or unrenowned, known
or misunderstood,--and the same light-hearted inconsiderateness. No!
not exactly the same. The face is sharper, more contracted, firmer;
has more inward, self-developing capacity for business and practical
counsels; more of enterprising spirit--which is shown especially by
the strongly prominent and fully rounded bones of the eye-sockets.
Not the all-blending, rich, pure, lofty poet's feeling--not the ease
and rapidity of the productive, power which marks the other--but yet
he is, and that in profounder depths, vivacious, upright, ardent.
Not the airy genius of light floating away in the morning red of
heaven, and fashioning huge shapes therein--but more of inward power,
though perhaps less of expression! more powerful and terrible--less
of elegance and finish; though his pencil nevertheless wants neither
coloring nor enchantment. More wit and riotous humor; droll satire;
brow, nose, look--all so downward, so over-hanging--decidedly what
it should be for original and all-enlivening wit, which does not
gather from without, but brings forth from within. Above all in this
character every trait more prominent, more angular, more aggressive,
more storming! No passive dullness, no relaxation, except in the sunken
eyes, where, as well as in the brow and nose, pleasure evidently
sits. In all besides--and even in this very brow, this concentration
of all--in this look indeed--there is an unmistakable expression of
natural, unacquired greatness; strength, impetuosity of manliness;
constancy, simplicity, precision!"

       *       *       *       *       *

After having in Darmstadt conceded to Merck the justice of his
opinions and allowed him to triumph, in his having predicted my
speedy separation from these gay companions, I found myself again in
Frankfort, well received by every one, including my father, although
the latter could not conceal his disappointment that I had not
descended by the pass to Airolo, and announced to him from Milan my
arrival in Italy. All this was expressed by his silence rather than his
words; but above all he did not show the slightest sympathy with those
wild rocks, those lakes of mist, and dragons' nests.

At last, however, by an incidental remark, by no means intended for
a reproach, he gave me to understand how little all such sights were
worth: he who has not seen Naples, he observed, has lived to no end.

[Side-note: My Meeting again with Lili.]

On my return I did not, I could not, avoid seeing Lili; the position
we maintained towards each other was tender and considerate. I was
informed that they had fully convinced her in my absence, that she must
break off her intimacy with me, and that this was the more necessary
and indeed more practicable, since by my journey and voluntary absence,
I had given a sufficiently clear intimation of my own intentions.
Nevertheless, the same localities in town and country, the same
friends, confidentially acquainted with all the past, could scarcely
be seen without emotion by either of us--still and for ever lovers,
although drawn apart in a mysterious way. It was an accursed state,
which in a certain sense resembled Hades, or the meeting of the happy
with the unhappy dead.

There were moments when departed days seemed to revive, but instantly
vanished again, like ghosts.

Some kind people had told me in confidence, that Lili, when all the
obstacles to, our union were laid before her, had declared that for my
love she was ready to renounce all present ties and advantages, and to
go with me to America. America was then perhaps, still more than now,
the Eldorado of all who found themselves crossed in the wishes of the
moment.

But the very thing which should have animated my hopes, only depressed
them the more. My handsome paternal house, only a few hundred steps
from hers, offered certainly a more tolerable and more attractive
habitation than an uncertain and remote locality beyond the ocean;
still I do not deny, that in her presence all hopes, all wishes sprang
to life again, and irresolution was stirring within me.

True, the injunctions of my sister were very peremptory and precise;
not only had she, with all the shrewd penetration of which she was
mistress, explained the situation of things to me, but she had also,
with painfully cogent letters, harped upon the same text still more
powerfully. "It were very well," said she, "if you could not help it,
then you would have to put up with it; such things one must _suffer_
but not _choose._" Some months passed away in this most miserable of
all conditions; every circumstance had conspired against the union; in
her alone I felt, I knew, lay the power which could have overcome every
difficulty.

Both the lovers, conscious of their position, avoided all solitary
interviews; but, in company, they could not help meeting in the usual
formal way. It was now that the strongest trial was to be gone through,
as every noble and feeling soul will acknowledge, when I have explained
myself more fully.

It is generally allowed, that in a new acquaintance, in the formation
of a new attachment, the lover gladly draws a veil over the past.
Growing affection troubles itself about no antecedents, and as it
springs up like genius with the rapidity of lightning, it knows nothing
either of past or future. It is true, my closer intimacy with Lili had
begun by her telling me the story of her early youth: how, from a child
up, she had excited in many both a liking and devotion to herself,
especially in strangers visiting her father's gay and lively house, and
how she had found her pleasure in all this, though it had been attended
with no further consequences and had lead to no permanent tie.

[Side-note: Lili's Old Lovers.]

True, lovers consider all that they have felt before only as
preparation for their present bliss, only as the foundation on which
the structure of their future life is to be reared. Past attachments
seem like spectres of the night, which glide away before the break of
day.

But what occurred! The fair came on, and with it appeared the whole
swarm of those spectres in their reality; all the mercantile friends
of the eminent house came one by one, and it was soon manifest
that not a man among them was willing or able wholly to give up a
certain claim to the lovely daughter. The younger ones, without being
obtrusive, still seemed to claim the rights of familiar friends; the
middle-aged, with a certain obliging dignity, like those who seek to
make themselves beloved, and who in all probability might come forward
with higher claims. There were fine men among them, with the additional
recommendation of a substantial fortune.

The older gentlemen, with their _uncle's_ ways and manners, were
altogether intolerable; they could not bridle their hands, and in the
midst of their disagreeable twaddle would demand a kiss, for which the
cheek was not refused. It was so natural to her, gracefully to satisfy
every one. The conversation, too, excited many a painful remembrance.
Allusion was constantly made to pleasure parties by water and by land,
to perils of all kinds with their happy escapes, to balls and evening
promenades, to the amusement afforded by ridiculous wooers, and to
whatever could excite an uncomfortable jealousy in the heart of an
inconsolable lover, who had, as it were, for a long time drawn to
himself the sum of so many years. But amid all this crowd and gaiety,
she did not push aside her friend, and when she turned to him, she
contrived, in a few words, to express all the tenderness which seemed
allowable to their present position.

But let us turn from this torture, of which the memory even is almost
intolerable, to poesy, which afforded, at least, an intellectual and
heartfelt alleviation of my sufferings.

"_Lili's Menagerie_" belongs somewhere to this period; I do not adduce
the poem here, because it does not reveal the softer sentiment, but
seeks only, with genial earnestness, to exaggerate the disagreeable,
and by comical, and provoking images, to change renunciation into
despair.

The _following song_ expresses rather the sweeter side of that misery,
and on that account is here inserted:

    Sweetest roses, ye are drooping,
      By my love ye were not worn;
    Bloom for one, who past all hoping,
      Feels his soul by sorrow torn.

    Oh, the days still live in thought, love,
      When to thee, my angel, bound;
    I my garden early sought, love,
      And for thee the young buds found.

    All the flowers and fruits I bore thee,
      And I cast them at thy feet;
    As I proudly stood before thee,
      Then my heart with hope would beat!

    Sweetest roses, ye are drooping,
      By my love ye were not worn;
    Bloom for one, who past all hoping,
      Feels his soul by sorrow torn.

The opera of "_Erwin and Elvira_" was suggested by the pretty
little romaunt or ballad introduced by Goldsmith in his "_Vicar of
Wakefield_," which had given us so much pleasure in our happiest days,
when we never dreamed that a similar fate awaited us.

I have already introduced some of the poetical productions of
this epoch, and I only wish they had all been preserved. A never
failing excitement in the happy season of love, heightened by the
beginning of care, gave birth to songs, which throughout expressed
no overstrained emotion, but always the sincere feeling of the
moment. From social songs for festivals, down to the most trifling of
presentation-verses--all was living and real and what a refined company
had sympathized in; first glad, then sorrowful, till finally there was
no height of bliss, no depth of woe, to which a strain was not devoted.

All these internal feelings and outward doings, so far as they were
likely to vex and pain my father, were by my mother's bustling prudence
skilfully kept from him. Although his hope of seeing me lead into
his house, that first one (who had so fully realised his ideas of a
daughter-in-law) had died away, still this "state-lady," as he used to
call her in his confidential conversations with ms wife, would never
suit him.

Nevertheless he let matters take their course, and diligently occupied
himself with his little Chancery. The young juristic friend, as well as
the dexterous amanuensis, gained continually more and more of influence
under his firm. As the absentee was now no longer missed there, they
let me take my own way, and sought to establish themselves firmly upon
a ground on which I was not destined to thrive.

Fortunately my own tendencies corresponded with the sentiments and
wishes of my father. He had so great an idea of my poetic talents, and
felt so personal a pleasure in the applause which my earliest efforts
had obtained, that he often talked to me on the subject of new and
further attempts. On the other hand, I did not venture to communicate
to him any of these social effusions and poems of passion.

[Side-note: Plan of Egmont.]

As, in _Götz von Berlichingen_, I had in my own way mirrored forth the
image of an important epoch of the world, I now again carefully looked
round for another crisis in political history of similar interest.
Accordingly the Revolt of the Netherlands attracted my attention. In
Götz, I had depicted a man of parts and energy, sinking under the
delusion that, in times of anarchy, ability and honesty of purpose must
have their weight and influence. The design of Egmont was to shew that
the most firmly established institutions cannot maintain themselves
against a powerful and shrewdly calculating Despotism. I had talked so
earnestly with my father about what the piece ought to be, and what I
wanted to do, that it inspired him with an invincible desire to see
the plan which I had already worked out in my head, fairly set down on
paper, in order to its being printed and admired.

In earlier times, while I still hoped to gain Lili's hand, I had
applied myself with the utmost diligence to the study and practice
of legal business, but now I sought to fill the fearful gulf which
separated me from her, with occupations of more intellect and soul. I
therefore set to work in earnest with the composition of Egmont. Unlike
the first _Götz von Berlichingen_, however, it was not written in
succession and in order; but immediately after the first introduction
I went at once to the main scenes without troubling myself about the
various connecting links. I made rapid progress, because my father,
knowing my fitful way of working, spurred me on (literally and without
exaggeration) day and night, and seemed to believe that the plan, so
easily conceived, might as easily be executed.




TWENTIETH BOOK.


And so I got on rapidly with my "_Egmont_;" and while I found in this
some alleviation of my wounded passion, the society of a clever artist
also helped me through many wearisome hours. And thus, as had often
before been the case, a vague desire of practical improvement brought
me a secret peace of mind, at a time when it could scarcely be hoped
for.

GEORGE MELCHIOR KRAUS, who had been born at Frankfort, but educated in
Paris, having just returned from a short tour to the north of Germany,
paid me a visit, and I immediately felt an impulse and a need to attach
myself to him. He was a cheerful merry fellow, whose light joyous
disposition had found its right sphere in Paris.

At that time Paris promised a pleasant welcome for Germans; PHILIP
HACKERT was residing there in credit and opulence; the true German
style in which, both in oil and water-colors, he faithfully executed
landscapes after nature, met with great favor, as contrasted with the
formal _mannerism_ into which the French had fallen. WILLE, in high
esteem as a copperplate engraver, supported and made German excellence
more widely known. GRIMM, already an artist of some influence, rejoiced
to help his countrymen. Pleasant excursions, in order to take original
sketches from nature were constantly undertaken, in which much of
undoubted excellence was either executed or designed.

BOUCHER and WATTEAU, both of them artists born, whose works, though
fluttering in the style and spirit of the time, were always highly
respectable, were favorably inclined to the new school, and even
took an active part in their excursions, though only for the sake of
amusement and experiment. GREUZE, living quietly by himself in his
family circle, and fond of representing such domestic scenes, seemed
delighted with his own works, held an honored and easy pencil.

All these several styles our townsman KRAUS was able to take up and
blend with his own particular talent; he formed himself in school
after school, and was skilful in his portrait-like delineations of
family and friendly gatherings; equally happy was he in his landscape
sketches, which cordially commended themselves to the eye by their
clear outlines, massive shadows, and agreeable coloring. The inward
sense was satisfied by a certain naïve truth, while the admirer of
artistic skill was especially pleased with the tact by which he
arranged and grouped into a picture what he had copied singly from
nature.

He was a most agreeable companion; a cheerful equanimity never failed
him; obliging without obsequiousness, reserved without pride, he was
everywhere at home, everywhere beloved, the most active, and, at the
same time, the most manageable of all mortals. With such talents and of
such a disposition, he soon won the favor of the higher circles; but he
was especially well received at the castle of the Baron von Stein, at
Nassau on the Lahn, whose accomplished and lovely daughter he assisted
in her artistic studies, and in many ways enlivened the whole circle.

Upon the marriage of this excellent lady to the Count von Werther,
the newly wedded couple took the artist with them to Thuringia, where
the Count possessed a large estate, and thus he got to Weimar. His
acquaintance was immediately sought, his talents were appreciated--and
a wish expressed that he would fix his permanent abode there.

Obliging as he was to everybody, upon his return at this time to
Frankfort, he stimulated my love of art, which had been contented with
merely collecting, and to making practical essays. The neighbourhood of
the artist is indispensable to the Dilettante, for the latter sees all
that is wanting in himself supplied by the former; the wishes of the
amateur are fulfilled in the artist.

By a certain natural talent, assisted by practice, I succeeded pretty
well in an outline, and I could give the shape of all that I saw before
me in nature; but I wanted the peculiar plastic power, the skilful
industry, which lends a body to the outline by well-graduated light and
shade. My copies were rather remote suggestions of the real form, and
my figures like those light airy beings in Dante's Purgatory, which,
casting no shadow themselves, fled affrighted at the shadows of actual
bodies.

Lavater's fishing for physiognomical treasures--for so we may well
designate the importunate urgency with which he called upon all men,
not only to observe physiognomies, but also practically to make, be it
artistic or most bungling attempts at copying faces, led me into the
habit of taking the portraits of all my friends on grey paper, with
black and white chalk. The likeness was not to be mistaken, but it
required the hand of my artistic friend to make them stand out from the
dark background.

[Side-note: Kraus the Artist.]

In turning over and looking through the rich portfolio of drawings
which the good Kraus had taken during his travels, we had most pleasant
talk together when he came to the sketches of scenes and persons in and
about Weimar. On such paintings I, too, was glad to dwell, and you may
imagine that it must have been flattering to the young man, to see in
so many pictures only the text which was to lead to a circumstantially
repeated exclamation: they would be glad to see _him_ there. With much
grace he would imitate the different persons whose portraits he had
taken and impersonate the greetings and invitations he had received.
One very successful oil-painting represented the musical director,
Wolf, at the piano, with his wife behind him preparing to sing; and
this gave the artist opportunity to assure me in earnest terms, of the
warm welcome this worthy pair would give me. Among his sketches were
several of the wood and mountain scenery around Bürgel. Here an honest
forester, more perhaps to please his pretty daughters than himself,
had by means of bridges, railings, and mossy paths, opened pleasant
and sociable walks through the rough masses of rocks, thickets, and
plantations. In one of these beautiful promenades he had painted
the fair damsels in white dresses, and not without their attendant
cavaliers. In one of these you immediately recognized Bertuch, whose
serious designs upon the oldest daughter were openly avowed; and Kraus
was not offended if you ventured to refer a second youth to himself,
and guessed his growing attachment to the sister.

BERTUCH, as the pupil of Wieland, had so distinguished himself in
science and in business, that already appointed private secretary
of the Duke, he had the best possible prospects before him. From
him we passed to Wieland and talked at length of his rectitude, and
cheerfulness, and kindly disposition; his fine literary and poetical
designs were dwelt upon, and allusions were made to the influence
of the _Merkur_ throughout Germany; many other names of literary,
political, or social distinction were also mentioned, and among them.
Musæus, Kirms, Berendis, and Ludecus. Of women, the wife of Wolf, and
a widow Kotzebue, with a lovely daughter and a bright boy, were, among
many others, characterized and extolled. Everything seemed to point to
a fresh and active life of literature and art.

And so, by degrees, were exhibited all the various elements upon
which the young Duke was, on his return, to work. His mother and
guardian had prepared this state of things, while, as regarded the
introduction of more important measures, all that, in accordance with
the duty of such provisional governments, was left to the judgment and
decision of the future sovereign. The sad ruin caused by the burning
of the palace was already looked upon as furnishing occasion for new
improvements. The mines at Ilmenau, which had stopped working, but
which, it was asserted, might again be made profitable by going to the
great expense of repairing the deep shaft;--the university at Jena,
which was somewhat behind the spirit of the age, and was consequently
threatened with the loss of some of its most able teachers,--and many
other matters, roused a noble common interest. Already were looks cast
around for persons, who, in the upward struggle of Germany, might be
qualified to further such various designs for good, and the prospect
seemed as fresh as the vivacity and energy of youth could desire.
And if it seemed sad to bring a young princess not to a home, of a
suitable princely dignity, but to a very ordinary dwelling built for
quite a different object; still such beautifully situated and well
contrived country-houses as Ettenburg, Belvedere, and other delightful
pleasure-seats, gave enjoyment for the present, and also a hope that
the life of nature thus rendered necessary, might lead to profitable
and agreeable occupations.

In the course of this biography, we have circumstantially exhibited the
child, the boy, the youth, seeking by different ways to approach to
the Suprasensible first, looking with strong inclination to a religion
of nature; then, clinging with love to a positive one; and, finally,
concentrating himself in the trial of his own powers, and joyfully
giving himself up to the general faith. Whilst he wandered to and fro,
space which lay intermediate between the sensible and suprasensible
regions, seeking and looking about him, much came in his way which did
not appear to belong to either, and he seemed to see, more and more
distinctly, that it is better to avoid all thought of the immense and
incomprehensible.

He thought he could detect in nature--both animate and inanimate,
with soul or without soul--something which manifests itself only in
contradictions, and which, therefore, could not be comprehended under
any idea, still less under one word. It was not godlike, for it seemed
unreasonable; not human, for it had no understanding; nor devilish,
for it was beneficent; nor angelic, for it often betrayed a malicious
pleasure. It resembled chance, for it evolved no consequences; it was
like Providence, for it hinted at connexion. All that limits us it
seemed to penetrate; it seemed to sport at will with the necessary
elements of our existence; it contracted time and expanded space. In
the impossible alone did it appear to find pleasure, while it rejected
the possible with contempt.

[Side-note: The Daemonic--Egmont.]

To this principle, which seemed to come in between all other principles
to separate them, and yet to link them together, I gave the name of
Daemonic, after the example of the ancients and of those who, at any
rate, had perceptions of the same kind. I sought to screen myself from
this fearful principle, by taking refuge, according to my usual habits,
in an imaginary creation.

Among the parts of history which I had particularly studied with some
care, were the events which have made the United Netherlands so famous.
I had diligently examined the original sources, and had endeavoured,
as far as possible, to get my facts at first hand, and to bring the
whole period vividly before my mind's eye. The situations it presented
appeared to me to be in the highest degree dramatic, while, for a
principal figure, around whom the others might be grouped with the
happiest effect, there was Count Egmont, whose greatness as a man and a
hero was most captivating.

But for my purpose it was necessary to convert him into a character
marked by such peculiarities as would grace a youth better than a man
in years, and an unmarried man better than the father of a family;
and one independent, rather than one, who, however freely disposed,
nevertheless restrained by the various relations of life.

Having thus, in my conception of Egmont's character, made him youthful,
and set him free from all domestic restraints, I ascribed to him
unlimited enjoyment of life and its pleasures, boundless self-reliance,
a gift of drawing all men to himself, and consequently also of winning
the favor of the people, and which, while it inspired a princess with a
silent, and a young child of nature with an avowed passion, won for him
the sympathy of a shrewd statesman, and even the loving admiration of
the son of his great adversary.

[Side-note: The Daemonic Influence in Life.]

The personal courage which distinguishes the hero is the foundation
upon which his whole character rests, the ground and soil from which
it sprung. He knows no danger, and willingly is blind to the greatest
when it is close at hand. Surrounded by enemies, we may, at any rate,
cut our way through them; the meshes of state policy are harder to
break through. The Daemonic element, which is in play on both sides,
and in conflict with which the lovely falls while the hated triumphs;
and, above all, the prospect that out of this conflict will spring a
third element, which will answer to the wishes of all men this perhaps
is what has gained for the piece (not, indeed, immediately on its first
appearance, but later and at the right time), the favor which it now
enjoys. Here, therefore, for the sake of many beloved readers, I will
anticipate myself, and as I know not whether I shall soon have another
opportunity, will express a conviction which, however, I did not form
till a considerable period subsequent to that of which I am now writing.

Although this Daemonic element can manifest itself in all corporeal
and incorporeal things, and even expresses itself most distinctly in
animals, yet, with man, especially does it stand in a most wonderful
connexion, forming in him a power which, if it be not opposed to the
moral order of the world, nevertheless does often so cross it that one
may be regarded as the warp, and the other as the woof.

For the phenomena which it gives rise to there are innumerable names:
for all philosophies and religions have sought in prose and poetry
to solve this enigma and to read once for all the riddle which,
nevertheless, remains still unriddled by them.

But the most fearful manifestation of the Daemonical, is when it is
seen predominating in some individual character. During my life I have
observed several instances of this, either more closely or remotely.
Such persons are not always the most eminent men, either morally or
intellectually, and it is seldom that they recommend themselves to
our affections by goodness of heart; a tremendous energy seems to be
seated in them, and they exercise a wonderful power over all creatures,
and even over the elements; and, indeed, who shall say how much
farther such influence may extend? All the moral powers combined are
of no avail against them; in vain does the more enlightened portion
of mankind attempt to throw suspicion upon them as deceived if not
deceivers--the mass is still drawn on by them. Seldom if ever do the
great men of an age find their equals among their contemporaries, and
they are to be overcome by nothing but by the universe itself; and it
is from observation of this fact that the strange, but most striking,
proverb must have risen: _Nemo contra Deum nisi Deus ipse._

From these lofty reflections I return to the littleness of my own
life, for which strange events, clothed at least with a daemonical
appearance, were in store. From the summit of Mont Gotthard, I had
turned my back upon Italy, and returned home, because I could not
make up my mind to go to a distance from Lili. An affection, which is
grounded on the hope of possessing for life one dearly beloved, in
an intimate and cordial union, does not die away all at once; on the
contrary, it is nourished by a consideration of the reasonable desires
and honest hopes we are conscious of cherishing.

It lies in the nature of the thing, that in such cases the maiden
should be consoled before the youth. To these beautiful children, as
descendants of Pandora, is granted the enviable gift to charm, attract,
and (more through nature and of half purpose, than through design or of
malice) to gather admirers around them; and thus, like the Magician's
Apprentice, they are often in danger of being frightened by the crowd
of their adorers. And then at last a choice must be made from among
them all; one must be exclusively preferred; one must lead home the
bride.

And how often does accident determine the choice and sway the mind
of her who has to make the selection! I had renounced Lili from
conviction, but love made me suspect my own reason. Lili had taken
leave of me with the same feelings, and I had set out on a beautiful
tour in order to distract my mind, but it had produced the opposite
effect.

As long as I was absent I believed in the separation, but did not
believe in the renunciation. Recollections, hopes and wishes, all had
free play. Now I came back, and as the re-union of those whose happy
love is unopposed, is a heaven so the meeting again of two lovers
who are kept apart by cold calculations of reason, is an intolerable
purgatory, a forecourt of hell. When I again entered the circle in
which Lili still moved, all the dissonances which tended to oppose
our union, seemed to have gained double force; when I stood once more
before her, the conviction that she was lost to me, fell heavy upon my
heart.

Accordingly I resolved at once on flight, and under this impression
there was nothing which I desired more, than that the young ducal
pair of Weimar should come from Carlsruhe to Frankfort, in order
that, complying with old and new imitations, I might follow them to
Weimar. Their Highnesses had always maintained towards me a gracious
and confidential manner, for which I on my part returned the warmest
thanks. My attachment to the Duke from the first moment I saw him;
my respect for the princess whom by reputation I had so long known;
a desire to render personally some friendly service to Wieland,
whose conduct had been so liberal, and to atone upon the spot for my
half-wilful, half-unintentional improprieties, were motives enough
to induce and even to force the assent of a youth, who now had no
attachment to detain him. Moreover, from Lili I must fly, whether to
the South, where my Father's enthusiasm was daily depicting to me a
most glorious heaven of Art and Nature, or to the North, whither so
distinguished a circle of eminent men invited me.

The young princely pair now reached Frankfort on their way home. The
Duke of Meiningen's suite was there at the same time, and by him, as
well as by the Privy Counsellor von Dürkheim, who accompanied the young
prince, I was received in the most friendly manner possible. But now,
to keep up the fashion of my youth, a strange incident was not wanting:
a little misunderstanding arose to throw me into an incredible but
rather laughable perplexity.

[Side-note: A Little Perplexity.]

Their Highnesses of Weimar and Meiningen were living in the same hotel.
I received one day an invitation to dinner. My mind was so preoccupied
with the Court of Weimar, that I did not think it necessary more
particularly to inform myself, especially as I had not the presumption
to imagine that any notice would be taken of me by the Duke of
Meiningen. Accordingly I go full dressed to the "Roman Emperors," and
making my way to the apartments of the Weimar family find them empty;
being informed that the Duke and his suite are with his Highness of
Meiningen, I betake myself thither, and am kindly received. Supposing
that this is only a morning visit, or that perhaps the two Dukes are to
dine together, I await the issue. Suddenly, however, the Weimar suite
sets itself in motion, and I of course follow; but instead of returning
to their own apartments they go straight down stairs and into their
chariots, and I am left alone in the street.

Now, instead of inquiring into the matter, and adroitly and prudently
seeking some solution of it, I, with my usual precipitancy, went
straight home, where I found my parents at supper. My father shook his
head, while my mother made every possible excuse for me. In the evening
she told me in confidence, that after I had left the table, my father
had said, that he wondered very much how I, generally acute enough,
could not see that in that quarter they only wished to make a fool of
me and to laugh at me. But this did not move me: for meanwhile I had
met with Herr von Dürkheim, who in his mild way brought me to book
with sundry graceful and humorous reproaches. I was now awakened from
my dream, and had an opportunity to express my most sincere thanks for
the favor intended me contrary to my hope and expectation, and to ask
forgiveness for my blunder.

After I had on good grounds determined to accept their friendly offers,
the following arrangement was made. A gentleman of the Duke's suite who
had stayed behind in Carlsruhe, to wait for a landau which was building
in Strasburg, was to be by a certain day in Frankfort, and I was to
hold myself in readiness to set off directly with him for Weimar. The
hearty and gracious farewell with which the young sovereigns took their
leave of me, the friendly behaviour of the courtiers, made me look
forward most anxiously to this journey, for which the road seemed so
pleasantly to smoothe itself.

But here, too, accidents came in to complicate so simple an
arrangement, which through my passionate impatience became still more
confused, and was almost quite frustrated. Having announced the day
of my departure, I had taken leave of everybody, and after packing
up in haste my chattels, not forgetting my unprinted manuscripts, I
waited anxiously for the hour which was to bring the aforesaid friend
in the new landau, and to carry me into a new country, and into new
circumstances. The hour passed, and the day also; and I since, to avoid
a second leave-taking and the being overrun with visits, I had given
out that I was to depart early in the morning, I was obliged to keep
close to the house, and to my own room, and had thus placed myself in a
peculiar situation.

But since solitude and a narrow space were always favorable to me,
and I was now compelled to find some employment for these hours, I
set to work on my "Egmont," and brought it almost to a close. I read
over what I wrote to my father who had acquired a peculiar interest
in this piece, and wished nothing more than to see it finished and
in print, since he hoped that it would add to his son's reputation.
He needed something of this sort to keep him quiet, and to make him
contented; for he was inclined to make very grave comments on the
non-arrival of the carriage. He maintained that the whole affair was
a mere fiction, would not believe in any new landau, and pronounced
the gentleman who stayed behind to be a phantom of the air. It was,
however, only indirectly that he gave me to understand all this; but
he only tormented himself and my mother the more openly; insisting
that the whole thing was a mere piece of court pleasantry, which they
had practised upon me in consequence of my former escapades, and in
order to sicken and to shame me, had put upon me a disgraceful mockery
instead of the expected honor.

As to myself, I held fast to my first faith, and congratulated myself
upon these solitary hours, disturbed by neither friends nor strangers,
nor by any sort of social distraction. I therefore wrote on vigorously
at "Egmont," though not without inward mortification. And this frame of
mind perhaps suited well with the piece itself, which, agitated by so
many passions, could not very well have been written by one entirely
passionless.

[Side-note: A Disappointment.]

Thus passed eight days, and I know not how many more, when such perfect
imprisonment began to prove irksome. Accustomed for many years to live
under the open sky, and to enter into society on the most frank and
familiar terms, in the neighbourhood too of one dearly beloved, from
whom indeed I had resolved to part, but from whom, so long as I was
within the circle of her attraction, I found it difficult to absent
myself--all this begun to make me so uneasy, that there was danger
lest the interest of my tragedy should suffer, and my inventive powers
be suspended through my impatience. Already for several evenings
I had found it impossible to remain at home. Disguised in a large
mantle, I crept round the city, passing the houses of my friends and
acquaintances, and not forbearing to walk up to Lili's window. Her
house was a corner one, and the room she usually spent her evenings
in was on the ground floor; the green shades were down, but I could
easily remark that the lights stood in their usual places. Soon I heard
her singing at the piano; it was the song, _Ah! why resistless dost
thou press me?_ which I had written for her hardly a year before. She
seemed to me to sing with more expression than ever; I could make out
every word distinctly; for I had placed my ear as close as the convex
lattice would permit. After she had sung it through, I saw by the
shadow which fell upon the curtain that she got up and walked backwards
and forwards, but I sought in vain to catch the outline of her lovely
person through the thick curtains. Nothing but the firm resolve to tear
myself away, and not to afflict her with my presence, but actually to
renounce her, and the thought of the strange impression which would be
made by my re-appearance, could have determined me to leave so dear a
neighbourhood.

Several more days passed away, and my father's suggestion seemed daily
to become more probable, since not even a letter arrived from Carlsruhe
to explain the reasons of the delay. I was unable to go on with my
poetic labors, and now, in the uneasiness with which I was internally
distracted, my father had the game to himself. He represented to me,
that it was now too late to change matters, that my trunk was packed,
and he would give me money and credit to go to Italy; but I must
decide quickly. In such a weighty affair, I naturally doubted and
hesitated. Finally, however, I agreed that if, by a certain hour,
neither carriage nor message came, I would set off, directing my steps
first of all to Heidelberg and from there over the Alps, not, however,
going through Switzerland again, but rather taking the route through
the Grisons, or the Tyrol.

Strange things indeed must happen, when a planless youth who of himself
is so easily misled, is also driven into a false step by a passionate
error of age. But so it is both with youth and the whole of life. It is
not till the campaign is over that we learn to see through its tactics.
In the ordinary course of things such an accident were easy enough
to be explained; but we are always too ready to conspire with error
against what is naturally probable, just as we shuffle the cards before
we deal them round, in order that chance may not be deprived of its
full share in the game. It is precisely thus that the element arises
in and upon which the Daemonical so loves to work; and it even sports
with us the more fearfully, the clearer are the inklings we have of its
approach.

The last day for my waiting had arrived, and the next morning was fixed
for my setting out on my travels; and now I felt extremely anxious to
see my friend Passavant again, who had just returned from Switzerland,
and who would really have had cause to be offended if, by keeping
my plans entirely to myself I had violated the intimate confidence
which subsisted between us. I therefore sent him an anonymous note,
requesting a meeting by night at a certain spot, where I was the
first to arrive enveloped in my mantle; but he was not long after me,
and if he wondered at the appointment, he must have been still more
surprised to meet the person he did. His joy, however, was equal to the
astonishment; conversation and counsel were not to be thought of, he
could only wish me well through my Italian journey, and so we parted.
The next day I saw myself by good time advancing along the mountain
road.

[Side-note: Heidelberg--Mademoiselle Delf.]

I had several reasons for going to Heidelberg; one was very sensible
and prudent, for I had heard that my missing Weimar friend must
pass through Heidelberg from Carlsruhe; and so, when we reached the
post-house, I left a note which was to be handed to a cavalier who
should pass through in the carriage described; the second reason was
one of passion, and bad reference to my late attachment to Lili. In
short. Mademoiselle Delf, who had been the confidante of our love, and
indeed the mediator with our respective parents for their approval of
our marriage, lived there; and I prized it as the greatest happiness to
be able, before I left Germany, to talk over those happy times with a
worthy, patient, and indulgent friend.

I was well received, and introduced into many families; among others,
the family of the high warden of the forests, Von W------, particularly
pleased me. The parents were dignified and easy in their manners, and
one of the daughters resembled Frederica. It was just the time of
vintage, the weather beautiful, and all my Alsacian feelings revived
in the beautiful valley of the Rhine. At this time, however, my
experience, both of myself and others seemed very strange; it was as
yet quite vague and undigested in my mind, no deliberate judgment upon
life had shaped itself before me, and whatever sense of the infinite
had been awakened within me served only to confuse and perplex me the
more. In society, nevertheless, I was as agreeable and entertaining as
ever, and possibly even still more so. Here, under this free air of
heaven, among joyous men, I sought again the old sports which never
lose their novelty and charm for youth. With an earlier and not yet
extinguished love in my heart, I excited sympathy without seeking it,
even though it sought no utterance of itself, and thus I soon became at
home in this circle, and indeed necessary to it, and I forgot that I
had resolved, after talking away a couple of evenings, to continue my
journey.

Mademoiselle Delf was one of those persons who, without exactly
intriguing, always like to have some business in hand, and to keep
others employed, and to carry through some object or other. She had
conceived a sincere friendship for me; and prevailed the more easily on
me to prolong my visit as I lived in her house, where she suggested all
manner of inducements for my stay, and raised all manner of obstacles
to my journey. When, however, I wanted to turn the conversation to
Lili, she was not so well pleased or so sympathizing as I had hoped.
On the contrary, she said that, under the circumstances, nothing could
be wiser than our resolution to part, and maintained that one must
submit to what is unavoidable, banish the impossible from the mind, and
look around for some new object of interest in life. Full of plans as
she always was, she had not intended to leave this matter to accident,
but had already formed a project for my future conduct, from which I
clearly saw that her recent invitation to Heidelberg had not been so
disinterested as it sounded.

She reminded me that the Electoral Prince, Charles Theodore, who had
done so much for the arts and sciences, resided still at Mannheim, and
that as the court was Roman Catholic while the country was Protestant
the latter party was extremely anxious to strengthen itself by
enlisting the services of able and hopeful men. I must now go, in God's
name, to Italy, and there mature my views of Art; meanwhile they would
work for me. It would, on my return, soon be seen whether the budding
affection of Fraülein von W------ had expanded or had been nipped, and
whether it would be politic, through an alliance with a respectable
family, to establish myself and my fortunes in a new home.

All these suggestions I did not, to be sure, reject; but my planless
nature could not wholly harmonize with the scheming spirit of my
friend; I was gratified, however, with the kind intentions of the
moment, while Lili's image floated before me, waking and dreaming, and
mingled with everything else which afforded me pleasure or distraction.
But now I summoned before my soul the serious import of my great
travelling plan, and I resolved to set myself free, gently and with
propriety, and in a few days to make known to her my determination of
taking leave of her, and to resume my route.

One night Mademoiselle Delf had gone on until late unfolding to me
her plans, and all that certain parties were disposed to do for me,
and I could not but feel grateful for such sentiments, although the
scheme of strengthening a certain circle, through me and my possible
influence at court, was manifest enough. It was about one o'clock when
we separated. I soon fell into a sound sleep, but before very long I
was awakened by the horn of a postilion who was stopping and blowing it
before the house. Very soon Mademoiselle Delf appeared with a light,
and a letter in her hands, and coming up to my bed-side, she exclaimed,
"Here's the letter; read and tell me what it says. Surely it comes from
the Weimar people. If it is an invitation do not follow it, but call
to mind our conversation." I asked her to give me a light and leave me
for a quarter of an hour to myself. She went away very reluctantly.
I remained thinking for some time without opening the letter. The
express then has come from Frankfort, I know both the seal and hand;
the friend then has arrived there; he is still true to his invitation,
and our own want of faith and incredulity had made us act prematurely.
Why could one not wait, in a quiet civilized place, for a man who had
been announced distinctly, but whose arrival might be delayed by so
many accidents? The scales fell from my eyes. All the kindness, the
graciousness, the confidence of the past came up livingly before me,
and I was almost ashamed of the strange wilful step I had taken. I
opened the letter, and found all that had happened explained naturally
enough. My missing guide had waited for the new landau which was to
come from Strasburg, day after day, hour after hour, as we had waited
for him; then for the sake of some business he had gone round by way
of Mannheim to Frankfort, and to his dismay had not found me there. He
sent the hasty letter by express, proposing that now the mistake was
explained I should instantly return, and save him the shame of going to
Weimar without me.

[Side-note: Departure for Weimar.]

Much as my understanding and my feeling inclined me to this side, there
was still no lack of weighty arguments in favour of my new route.
My father had laid out for me a fine plan of travel, and had given
me a little library, which might prepare me for the scenes I was to
visit, and also guide me on the spot. In my leisure hours I had had
no other entertainment than to reflect on it, and, indeed, during my
last short journey I had thought of nothing else in the coach. Those
glorious objects which, from my youth up, I had become acquainted with,
histories and all sorts of tales, gathered before my soul, and nothing
seemed to me so desirable as to visit them, while I was parting from
Lili for ever.

As these thoughts passed through my mind I had dressed myself and was
walking up and down my chamber. My anxious hostess entered. "What am
I to hope?" she cried. "Dearest madam," I answered;" say no more on
the subject; I have made up my mind to return: the grounds of that
conclusion I have well weighed, and to repeat them to you would be
wasting time. A resolution must be taken sooner or later, and who
should take it but the person whom it most concerns?"

I was moved, and so was she; and we had an excited scene, which I cut
short by ordering my servant to engage a post-coach. In vain I begged
my hostess to calm herself, and to turn the mock-departure which I
took of the company the evening before into a real one; to consider
that it was only a temporary visit, a postponement for a short time;
that my Italian journey was not given up, and my return that way was
not precluded. She would listen to nothing, and she disquieted her
friend, already deeply excited, still more. The coach was at the door;
everything was packed, and the postilion gave the usual signs of
impatience; I tore myself away; she would not let me go, and with so
much art brought up all the arguments of the present, that finally,
impassioned and inspired, I shouted out the words of Egmont:

"Child! child! no more! The coursers of time, lashed, as it were, by
invisible spirits, hurry on the light car of our destiny, and all that
we can do is in cool self-possession to hold the reins with a firm
hand, and to guide the wheels, now to the left, now to the right,
avoiding a stone here, or a precipice there. Whither it is hurrying
who can tell? and who, indeed, can remember the point from which it
started?"
