




I

1837

(ÆT. 20)


_Oct 22._ "What are you doing now?" he asked. "Do you keep a journal?"
So I make my first entry to-day.


SOLITUDE

To be alone I find it necessary to escape the present,—I avoid myself.
How could I be alone in the Roman emperor's chamber of mirrors? I seek
a garret. The spiders must not be disturbed, nor the floor swept, nor
the lumber arranged.

The Germans say, "Es ist alles wahr wodurch du besser wirst."


THE MOULD OUR DEEDS LEAVE

_Oct. 24._ Every part of nature teaches that the passing away of one
life is the making room for another. The oak dies down to the ground,
leaving within its rind a rich virgin mould, which will impart a
vigorous life to an infant forest. The pine leaves a sandy and sterile
soil, the harder woods a strong and fruitful mould.

So this constant abrasion and decay makes the soil of my future growth.
As I live now so shall I reap. If I grow pines and birches, my virgin
mould will not sustain the oak; but pines and birches, or, perchance,
weeds and brambles, will constitute my second growth.[4]


SPRING

_Oct 25._ She appears, and we are once more children; we commence again
our course with the new year. Let the maiden no more return, and men
will become poets for very grief. No sooner has winter left us time
to regret her smiles, than we yield to the advances of poetic frenzy.
"The flowers look kindly at us from the beds with their child eyes,
and in the horizon the snow of the far mountains dissolves into light
vapor."—GOETHE, _Torquato Tasso_.


THE POET

     "He seems to avoid—even to flee from us,—
     To seek something which we know not,
     And perhaps he himself after all knows not."—_Ibid._


_Oct 26._

     "His eye hardly rests upon the earth;
     His ear hears the one-clang of nature;
     What history records,—what life gives,—
     Directly and gladly his genius takes it up:
     His mind collects the widely dispersed,
     And his feeling animates the inanimate.
     Often he ennobles what appeared to us common,
     And the prized is as nothing to him.
     In his own magic circle wanders
     The wonderful man, and draws us
     With him to wander, and take part in it:
     He seems to draw near to us, and remains afar from us:
     He seems to be looking at us, and spirits, forsooth,
     Appear to him strangely in our places."—_Ibid._


HOW MAN GROWS

"A noble man has not to thank a private circle for his culture.
Fatherland and world must work upon him. Fame and infamy must he learn
to endure. He will be constrained to know himself and others. Solitude
shall no more lull him with her flattery. The foe _will_ not, the
friend _dares_ not, spare him. Then, striving, the youth puts forth his
strength, feels what he is, and feels himself soon a man."

     "A talent is builded in solitude,
     A character in the stream of the world."

"He only fears man who knows him not, and he who avoids him will soonest
misapprehend him."—_Ibid._


ARIOSTO

"As nature decks her inward rich breast in a green variegated dress,
so clothes he all that can make men honorable in the blooming garb of
the fable.... The well of superfluity bubbles near, and lets us see
variegated wonder-fishes. The air is filled with rare birds, the meads
and copses with strange herds, wit lurks half concealed in the verdure,
and wisdom from time to time lets sound from a golden cloud sustained
words, while frenzy wildly seems to sweep the well-toned lute, yet holds
itself measured in perfect time."


BEAUTY

"That beauty is transitory which alone you seem to honor."—GOETHE,
_Torquato Tasso_.


THE FOG

_Oct. 27._ The prospect is limited to Nobscot and Annursnack. The trees
stand with boughs downcast like pilgrims beaten by a storm, and the
whole landscape wears a sombre aspect.

So when thick vapors cloud the soul, it strives in vain to escape from
its humble working-day valley, and pierce the dense fog which shuts out
from view the blue peaks in its horizon, but must be content to scan
its near and homely hills.


DUCKS AT GOOSE POND

_Oct 29._ Two ducks, of the summer or wood species, which were merrily
dabbling in their favorite basin, struck up a retreat on my approach,
and seemed disposed to take French leave, paddling off with swan-like
majesty. They are first-rate swimmers, beating me at a round pace,
and—what was to me a new trait in the duck character—dove every
minute or two and swam several feet under water, in order to escape
our attention. Just before immersion they seemed to give each other
a significant nod, and then, as if by a common understanding, 'twas
heels up and head down in the shaking of a duck's wing. When they
reappeared, it was amusing to observe with what a self-satisfied,
darn-it-how-he-nicks-'em air they paddled off to repeat the experiment.


THE ARROWHEAD

A curious incident happened some four or six weeks ago which I think
it worth the while to record. John and I had been searching for Indian
relics, and been successful enough to find two arrowheads and a pestle,
when, of a Sunday evening, with our heads full of the past and its
remains, we strolled to the mouth of Swamp Bridge Brook. As we neared
the brow of the hill forming the bank of the river, inspired by my
theme, I broke forth into an extravagant eulogy on those savage times,
using most violent gesticulations by way of illustration. "There on
Nawshawtuct," said I, "was their lodge, the rendezvous of the tribe, and
yonder, on Clamshell Hill, their feasting ground. This was, no doubt,
a favorite haunt; here on this brow was an eligible lookout post. How
often have they stood on this very spot, at this very hour, when the
sun was sinking behind yonder woods and gilding with his last rays
the waters of the Musketaquid, and pondered the day's success and the
morrow's prospects, or communed with the spirit of their fathers gone
before them to the land of shades!

"Here," I exclaimed, "stood Tahatawan; and there" (to complete the
period) "is Tahatawan's arrowhead."

We instantly proceeded to sit down on the spot I had pointed to, and I,
to carry out the joke, to lay bare an ordinary stone which my whim had
selected, when lo! the first I laid hands on, the grubbing stone that
was to be, proved a most perfect arrowhead, as sharp as if just from
the hands of the Indian fabricator!!!


SUNRISE

_Oct. 30._ First we have the gray twilight of the poets, with dark and
barry clouds diverging to the zenith. Then glows the intruding cloud in
the east, as if it bore a precious jewel in its bosom; a deep round gulf
of golden gray indenting its upper edge, while slender rules of fleecy
vapor, radiating from the common centre, like light-armed troops, fall
regularly into their places.


SAILING WITH AND AGAINST THE STREAM

_Nov. 3._ If one would reflect, let him embark on some placid stream,
and float with the current. He cannot resist the Muse. As we ascend the
stream, plying the paddle with might and main, snatched and impetuous
thoughts course through the brain. We dream of conflict, power, and
grandeur. But turn the prow down stream, and rock, tree, kine, knoll,
assuming new and varying positions, as wind and water shift the scene,
favor the liquid lapse of thought, far-reaching and sublime, but ever
calm and gently undulating.


TRUTH

_Nov. 5._ Truth strikes us from behind, and in the dark, as well as from
before and in broad daylight.


STILL STREAMS RUN DEEPEST

_Nov. 9._ It is the rill whose "silver sands and pebbles sing eternal
ditties with the spring." The early frosts bridge its narrow channel,
and its querulous note is hushed. Only the flickering sunlight on its
sandy bottom attracts the beholder. But there are souls whose depths
are never fathomed,—on whose bottom the sun never shines. We get a
distant view from the precipitous banks, but never a draught from their
mid-channels. Only a sunken rock or fallen oak can provoke a murmur,
and their surface is a stranger to the icy fetters which bind fast a
thousand contributory rills.[5]


DISCIPLINE

_Nov. 12._ I yet lack discernment to distinguish the whole lesson of
to-day; but it is not lost,—it will come to me at last. My desire is to
know _what_ I have lived, that I may know _how_ to live henceforth.


SIN DESTROYS THE PERCEPTION OF THE BEAUTIFUL

_Nov. 13._ This shall be the test of innocence—if I can hear a taunt,
and look out on this friendly moon, pacing the heavens in queen-like
majesty, with the accustomed yearning.


TRUTH

Truth is ever returning into herself. I glimpse one feature to-day,
another to-morrow; and the next day they are blended.


GOETHE

_Nov. 15._ "And now that it is evening, a few clouds in the mild
atmosphere rest upon the mountains, more stand still than move in the
heavens, and immediately after sunset the chirping of crickets begins to
increase; then feels one once more at home in the world, and not as an
alien,—an exile. I am contented as though I had been born and brought
up here, and now returned from a Greenland or whaling voyage. Even the
dust of my Fatherland, as it is whirled about the wagon, which for so
long a time I had not seen, is welcome. The clock-and-bell jingling
of the crickets is very agreeable, penetrating, and not without a
meaning. Pleasant is it when roguish boys whistle in emulation of a
field of such songstresses. One imagines that they really enhance each
other. The evening is perfectly mild as the day. Should an inhabitant
of the south, coming from the south, hear of my rapture, he would deem
me very childish. Alas! what I here express have I long felt under an
unpropitious heaven. And now this joy is to me an exception, which I am
henceforth to enjoy,—a necessity of my nature."—_Italiänische Reise._[6]


PONKAWTASSETT

_Nov. 16._ There goes the river, or rather is, "in serpent error
wandering," the jugular vein of Musketaquid. Who knows how much of
the proverbial moderation of the inhabitants was caught from its dull
circulation?

The snow gives the landscape a washing-day appearance,—here a streak
of white, there a streak of dark; it is spread like a napkin over the
hills and meadows. This must be a rare drying day, to judge from the
vapor that floats over the vast clothes-yard.

A hundred guns are firing and a flag flying in the village in
celebration of the whig victory. Now a short dull report,—the mere disk
of a sound, shorn of its beams,—and then a puff of smoke rises in the
horizon to join its misty relatives in the skies.


GOETHE

He gives such a glowing description of the old tower, that they who
had been born and brought up in the neighborhood must needs look over
their shoulders, "that they might behold with their eyes, what I had
praised to their ears, ... and I added nothing, not even the ivy which
for centuries had decorated the walls."—_Italiänische Reise._[7]


SUNRISE

_Nov. 17._ Now the king of day plays at bo-peep round the world's
corner, and every cottage window smiles a golden smile,—a very picture
of glee. I see the water glistening in the eye. The smothered breathings
of awakening day strike the ear with an undulating motion; over hill
and dale, pasture and woodland, come they to me, and I am at home in
the world.


THE SKY

If there is nothing new on earth, still there is something new in the
heavens. We have always a resource in the skies. They are constantly
turning a new page to view. The wind sets the types in this blue ground,
and the inquiring may always read a new truth.[8]


VIRGIL

_Nov. 18._ "Pulsae referunt ad sidera valles"[9] is such a line as would
save an epic; and how finely he concludes his "agrestem musam," now that
Silenus has done, and the stars have heard his story,—

     "Cogere donec oves stabulis, numerumque referre
     Jussit, et invito processit Vesper Olympo."


HARMONY

Nature makes no noise. The howling storm, the rustling leaf, the
pattering rain are no disturbance, there is an essential and unexplored
harmony in them. Why is it that thought flows with so deep and sparkling
a current when the sound of distant music strikes the ear? When I
would muse I complain not of a rattling tune on the piano—a Battle of
Prague even—if it be harmony, but an irregular, discordant drumming is
intolerable.


SHADOWS

When a shadow flits across the landscape of the soul, where is the
substance? Has it always its origin in sin? and is that sin in me?


VIRGIL

_Nov. 20._ I would read Virgil, if only that I might be reminded of the
identity of human nature in all ages. I take satisfaction in "jam laeto
turgent in palmite gemmae," or "Strata jacent passim sua quaeque sub
arbore poma." It was the same world, and the same men inhabited it.[10]


NAWSHAWTUCT

_Nov. 21._ One must needs climb a hill to know what a world he inhabits.
In the midst of this Indian summer I am perched on the topmost rock of
Nawshawtuct, a velvet wind blowing from the southwest. I seem to feel
the atoms as they strike my cheek. Hills, mountains, steeples stand out
in bold relief in the horizon, while I am resting on the rounded boss
of an enormous shield, the river like a vein of silver encircling its
edge, and thence the shield gradually rises to its rim, the horizon.
Not a cloud is to be seen, but villages, villas, forests, mountains,
one above another, till they are swallowed up in the heavens.[11] The
atmosphere is such that, as I look abroad upon the length and breadth
of the land, it recedes from my eye, and I seem to be looking for the
threads of the velvet.

Thus I admire the grandeur of my emerald carriage, with its border of
blue, in which I am rolling through space.


THOUGHTS

_Nov. 26._ I look around for thoughts when I am overflowing myself.
While I live on, thought is still in embryo,—it stirs not within me.
Anon it begins to assume shape and comeliness, and I deliver it, and
clothe it in its garment of language. But alas! how often when thoughts
choke me do I resort to a spat on the back, or swallow a crust, or do
anything but expectorate them!


HOAR FROST AND GREEN RIVER

_Nov. 28._ Every tree, fence, and spire of grass that could raise its
head above the snow was this morning covered with a dense hoar frost.
The trees looked like airy creatures of darkness caught napping. On
this side they were huddled together, their gray hairs streaming, in a
secluded valley which the sun had not yet penetrated, and on that they
went hurrying off in Indian file by hedgerows and watercourses, while
the shrubs and grasses, like elves and fairies of the night, sought to
hide their diminished heads in the snow.

The branches and taller grasses were covered with a wonderful
ice-foliage, answering leaf for leaf to their summer dress. The centre,
diverging, and even more minute fibres were perfectly distinct and the
edges regularly indented.

These leaves were on the side of the twig or stubble opposite to the sun
(when it was not bent toward the east), meeting it for the most part at
right angles, and there were others standing out at all possible angles
upon these, and upon one another.

It struck me that these ghost leaves and the green ones whose forms they
assume were the creatures of the same law. It could not be in obedience
to two several laws that the vegetable juices swelled gradually into the
perfect leaf on the one hand, and the crystalline particles trooped to
their standard in the same admirable order on the other.

The river, viewed from the bank above, appeared of a yellowish-green
color, but on a nearer approach this phenomenon vanished; and yet the
landscape was covered with snow.[12]


ICE-HARP

_Dec. 5._ My friend tells me he has discovered a new note in nature,
which he calls the Ice-Harp. Chancing to throw a handful of pebbles upon
the pond where there was an air chamber under the ice, it discoursed a
pleasant music to him.

Herein resides a tenth muse, and as he was the man to discover it
probably the extra melody is in him.


GOETHE

_Dec. 8._ He is generally satisfied with giving an exact description
of objects as they appear to him, and his genius is exhibited in the
points he seizes upon and illustrates. His description of Venice and
her environs as seen from the Marcusthurm is that of an unconcerned
spectator, whose object is faithfully to describe what he sees, and
that, too, for the most part, in the order in which he saw it. It
is this trait which is chiefly to be prized in the book; even the
reflections of the author do not interfere with his descriptions.

It would thus be possible for inferior minds to produce invaluable
books.[13]


MEASURE

_Dec. 10._ Not the carpenter alone carries his rule in his pocket.
Space is quite subdued to us. The meanest peasant finds in a hair of
his head, or the white crescent upon his nail, the unit of measure for
the distance of the fixed stars. His middle finger measures how many
_digits_ into space; he extends a few times his thumb and finger, and
the continent is _spanned_; he stretches out his arms, and the sea is
_fathomed_.


THOUGHT

_Dec. 12._ There are times when thought elbows her way through the
underwood of words to the clear blue beyond;

     "O'er bog, or steep, through strait, rough, dense, or rare,
     With head, hands, wings, or feet, pursues _her_ way,
     And swims, or sinks, or wades, or creeps, or flies;..."

but let her don her cumbersome working-day garment, and each sparkling
dewdrop will seem a "slough of despond."


PECULIARITY

When we speak of a peculiarity in a man or a nation, we think to
describe only one part, a mere mathematical point; but it is not so. It
pervades all. Some parts may be further removed than others from this
centre, but not a particle so remote as not to be either shined on or
shaded by it.


THORNS

No faculty in man was created with a useless or sinister intent; in no
respect can he be wholly bad, but the worst passions have their root
in the best,—as anger, for instance, may be only a perverted sense of
wrong which yet retains some traces of its origin.[14] So a spine is
proved to be only an abortive branch, "which, notwithstanding, even as
a spine, bears leaves, and, in _Euphorbia heptagona_, sometimes flowers
and fruit."


JACK FROST

_Dec. 15._ As further confirmation of the fact that vegetation is a kind
of crystallization, I observe that upon the edge of the melting frost
on the windows, Jack is playing singular freaks,—now bundling together
his needle-shaped leaves so as to resemble fields waving with grain, or
shocks of wheat rising here and there from the stubble. On one side the
vegetation of the torrid zone is presented you,—high-towering palms,
and widespread banyans, such as we see in pictures of Oriental scenery;
on the other are arctic pines, stiff-frozen, with branches downcast,
like the arms of tender men in frosty weather.[15] In some instances
the panes are covered with little feathery flocks, where the particles
radiate from a common centre, the number of radii varying from three
to seven or eight. The crystalline particles are partial to the creases
and flaws in the glass, and, when these extend from sash to sash, form
complete hedgerows, or miniature watercourses, where dense masses of
crystal foliage "high over-arched imbower."


FROZEN MIST

_Dec. 16._ The woods were this morning covered with thin bars of
vapor,—the evaporation of the leaves according to Sprengel,—which
seemed to have been suddenly stiffened by the cold. In some places it
was spread out like gauze over the tops of the trees, forming extended
lawns, where elves and fairies held high tournament;

                               "before each van
     Prick forth the aery knights, and couch their spears,
     Till thickest legions close."[16]

The east was glowing with a narrow but ill-defined crescent of light,
the blue of the zenith mingling in all possible proportions with the
salmon-color of the horizon. And now the neighboring hilltops telegraph
to us poor crawlers of the plain the Monarch's golden ensign in the
east, and anon his "long levelled rules" fall sector-wise, and humblest
cottage windows greet their lord.


FACTS

How indispensable to a correct study of Nature is a perception of her
true meaning. The fact will one day flower out into a truth. The season
will mature and fructify what the understanding had cultivated. Mere
accumulators of facts—collectors of materials for the master-workmen—are
like those plants growing in dark forests, which "put forth only leaves
instead of blossoms."


DRUIDS

_Dec. 17._ In all ages and nations we observe a leaning towards a right
state of things. This may especially be seen in the history of the
priest, whose life approaches most nearly to that of the ideal man. The
Druids paid no taxes, and "were allowed exemption from warfare and all
other things." The clergy are even now a privileged class.

In the last stage of civilization Poetry, Religion, and Philosophy will
be one; and this truth is glimpsed in the first. The druidical order was
divided into Druids, Bards, and Ouates. "The Bards were the poets and
musicians, of whom some were satirists, and some encomiasts. The Ouates
sacrificed, divined, and contemplated the nature of things. The Druids
cultivated physiology and moral philosophy; or, as Diodorus says, were
their philosophers and theologians."


GOETHE

_Dec. 18._ He required that his heroine, Iphigenia, should say nothing
which might not be uttered by the holy Agathe, whose picture he
contemplated.


IMMORTALITY POST

The nations assert an immortality _post_ as well as _ante_. The
Athenians wore a golden grasshopper as an emblem that they sprang from
the earth, and the Arcadians pretended that they were προσέληνοι, or
before the moon.

The Platos do not seem to have considered this back-reaching tendency
of the human mind.


THE PRIDE OF ANCESTRY

Men are pleased to be called the sons of their fathers,—so little truth
suffices them,—and whoever addresses them by this or a similar title is
termed a poet. The orator appeals to the sons of Greece, of Britannia,
of France, or of Poland; and our fathers' homely name acquires some
interest from the fact that Sakai-suna means sons-of-the-Sakai.[17]


HELL

_Dec. 19._ Hell itself may be contained within the compass of a spark.


SAXONS

The fact seems at first an anomalous one that the less a people have
to contend for the more tenacious they are of their rights. The Saxons
of Ditmarsia contended for a principle, not for their sterile sands and
uncultivated marshes.

We are on the whole the same Saxons that our fathers were, when it was
said of them, "They are emulous in hospitality, because to plunder and
to lavish is the glory of an Holsatian; not to be versed in the science
of depredation is, in his opinion, to be stupid and base."

The French are the same Franks of whom it is written, "Francis familiare
est ridendo fidem frangere;" "Gens Francorum infidelis est. Si perjeret
Francus quid novi faciet, qui perjuriam ipsam sermonis genus putat esse
non criminis."


CRYSTALS

I observed this morning that the ice at Swamp Bridge was checkered with
a kind of mosaic-work of white creases or channels; and when I examined
the under side, I found it to be covered with a mass of crystallizations
from three to five inches deep, standing, or rather depending, at right
angles to the true ice, which was about an eighth of an inch thick.
There was a yet older ice six or eight inches below this. The crystals
were for the most part triangular prisms with the lower end open,
though, in some cases, they had run into each other so as to form four
or five sided prisms. When the ice was laid upon its smooth side, they
resembled the roofs and steeples of a Gothic city, or the vessels of a
crowded haven under a press of canvas.

I noticed also that where the ice in the road had melted and left
the mud bare, the latter, as if crystallized, discovered countless
rectilinear fissures, an inch or more in length—a continuation, as it
were, of the checkered ice.[18]


_Dec. 22._ About a year ago, having set aside a bowl which had contained
some rhubarb grated in water, without wiping it, I was astonished to
find, a few days afterward, that the rhubarb had crystallized, covering
the bottom of the bowl with perfect cubes, of the color and consistency
of glue, and a tenth of an inch in diameter.


CRYSTALS

_Dec. 23._ Crossed the river to-day on the ice. Though the weather is
raw and wintry and the ground covered with snow, I noticed a solitary
robin, who looked as if he needed to have his services to the Babes in
the Woods speedily requited.

In the side of the high bank by the Leaning Hemlocks, there were some
curious crystallizations. Wherever the water, or other causes, had
formed a hole in the bank, its throat and outer edge, like the entrance
to a citadel of the olden time, bristled with a glistening ice armor.
In one place you might see minute ostrich feathers, which seemed the
waving plumes of the warriors filing into the fortress, in another the
glancing fan-shaped banners of the Lilliputian host, and in another the
needle-shaped particles, collected into bundles resembling the plumes
of the pine, might pass for a phalanx of spears.[19] The whole hill
was like an immense quartz rock, with minute crystals sparkling from
innumerable crannies. I tried to fancy that there was a disposition in
these crystallizations to take the forms of the contiguous foliage.


REVOLUTIONS

_Dec. 27._ Revolutions are never sudden. Not one man, nor many men, in a
few years or generations, suffice to regulate events and dispose mankind
for the revolutionary movement. The hero is but the crowning stone
of the pyramid,—the keystone of the arch. Who was Romulus or Remus,
Hengist or Horsa, that we should attribute to them Rome or England?
They are famous or infamous because the progress of events has chosen
to make them its stepping-stones. But we would know where the avalanche
commenced, or the hollow in the rock whence springs the Amazon. The most
important is apt to be some silent and unobtrusive fact in history. In
449 three Saxon cyules arrived on the British coast,—"Three scipen gode
comen mid than flode, three hundred cnihten."[20] The pirate of the
British coast was no more the founder of a state than the scourge of
the German shore.


HEROES

The real heroes of minstrelsy have been ideal, even when the names of
actual heroes have been perpetuated. The real Arthur, who "not only
excelled the experienced past, but also the possible future," of whom it
was affirmed for many centuries that he was not dead, but "had withdrawn
from the world into some magical region; from which at a future crisis
he was to reappear, and lead the Cymri in triumph through the island,"
whose character and actions were the theme of the bards of Bretagne
and the foundation of their interminable romances, was only an ideal
impersonation.

  [Illustration: _Frost Crystals_]

Men claim for the ideal an actual existence also, but do not often
expand the actual into the ideal. "If you do not believe me, go into
Bretagne, and mention in the streets or villages, that Arthur is really
dead like other men; you will not escape with impunity; you will be
either hooted with the curses of your hearers, or stoned to death."


HOMESICKNESS

The most remarkable instance of homesickness is that of the colony of
Franks transplanted by the Romans from the German Ocean to the Euxine,
who at length resolving to a man to abandon the country, seized the
vessels which carried them out, and reached at last their native shores,
after innumerable difficulties and dangers upon the Mediterranean and
Atlantic.


THE INTERESTING FACTS IN HISTORY

How cheering is it, after toiling through the darker pages of
history,—the heartless and fluctuating crust of human rest and
unrest,—to alight on the solid earth where the sun shines, or rest
in the checkered shade. The fact that Edwin of Northumbria "caused
stakes to be fixed in the highways where he had seen a clear spring,"
and that "brazen dishes were chained to them, to refresh the weary
sojourner, whose fatigues Edwin had himself experienced," is worth all
Arthur's twelve battles.[21] The sun again shines along the highway, the
landscape presents us sunny glades and occasional cultivated patches as
well as dark primeval forests, and it is merry England after all.


_Dec. 31._ As the least drop of wine tinges the whole goblet, so the
least particle of truth colors our whole life. It is never isolated, or
simply added as treasure to our stock. When any real progress is made,
we unlearn and learn anew what we thought we knew before. We go picking
up from year to year and laying side by side the _disjecta membra_ of
truth, as he who picked up one by one a row of a hundred stones, and
returned with each separately to his basket.




II

1838

(ÆT. 20-21)


HEAVEN ON EARTH

_Jan. 6._ As a child looks forward to the coming of the summer, so
could we contemplate with quiet joy the circle of the seasons returning
without fail eternally. As the spring came round during so many years
of the gods, we could go out to admire and adorn anew our Eden, and yet
never tire.


SAXONS

_Jan. 15._ After all that has been said in praise of the Saxon race, we
must allow that our blue-eyed and fair-haired ancestors were originally
an ungodly and reckless crew.


WE MAKE OUR OWN FORTUNE

_Jan. 16._ Man is like a cork which no tempest can sink, but it will
float securely to its haven at last. The world is never the less
beautiful though viewed through a chink or knot-hole.


_Jan. 21._ Man is the artificer of his own happiness. Let him beware
how he complains of the disposition of circumstances, for it is his own
disposition he blames. If this is sour, or that rough, or the other
steep, let him think if it be not his work. If his look curdles all
hearts, let him not complain of a sour reception; if he hobble in his
gait, let him not grumble at the roughness of the way; if he is weak
in the knees, let him not call the hill steep. This was the pith of the
inscription on the wall of the Swedish inn: "You will find at Trolhate
excellent bread, meat, and wine, provided you bring them with you!"[22]


HOAR FROST

Every leaf and twig was this morning covered with a sparkling ice
armor; even the grasses in exposed fields were hung with innumerable
diamond pendants, which jingled merrily when brushed by the foot of
the traveller. It was literally the wreck of jewels and the crash of
gems. It was as though some superincumbent stratum of the earth had been
removed in the night, exposing to light a bed of untarnished crystals.
The scene changed at every step, or as the head was inclined to the
right or the left. There were the opal and sapphire and emerald and
jasper and beryl and topaz and ruby.[23]

Such is beauty ever,—neither here nor there, now nor then,—neither in
Rome nor in Athens, but wherever there is a soul to admire. If I seek
her elsewhere because I do not find her at home, my search will prove
a fruitless one.


ZENO

_Feb. 7._ Zeno, the Stoic, stood in precisely the same relation to
the world that I do now. He is, forsooth, bred a merchant—as how many
still!—and can trade and barter, and perchance higgle, and moreover he
can be shipwrecked and cast ashore at the Piræus, like one of your Johns
or Thomases.

He strolls into a shop and is charmed by a book by Xenophon—and
straightway he becomes a philosopher. The sun of a new life's day rises
to him,—serene and unclouded,—which looks over στοά. And still the
fleshly Zeno sails on, shipwrecked, buffeted, tempest-tossed; but the
true Zeno sails ever a placid sea. Play high, play low,—rain, sleet,
or snow,—it's all the same with the Stoic. "Propriety and decorum" were
his Palinurus,—not the base progeny of fashion, but the suggestions of
an experienced taste.

When evening comes he sits down unwearied to the review of his
day,—what's done that's to be undone,—what not done at all still
to be done. Himself Truth's unconcerned helpmate. Another system of
book-keeping this than that the Cyprian trader to Phœnicia practiced!

This was he who said to a certain garrulous young man, "On this account
have we two ears and but one mouth, that we may hear more, and speak
less."

That he had talked concerned not our philosopher, but his audience;
and herein we may see how it is more noble to hear than to speak. The
wisest may apologize that he only said so to hear himself talk, for if
he _heard_ not, as well for him had he never spoken. What is all this
gabble to the _gabbler_? Only the silent reap the profit of it.


SOCIETY

_Feb. 9._ It is wholesome advice,—"to be a man amongst folks." Go into
society if you will, or if you are unwilling, and take a human interest
in its affairs. If you mistake these Messieurs and Mesdames for so many
men and women, it is but erring on the safe side,—or, rather, it is
their error and not yours. Armed with a manly sincerity, you shall not
be trifled with, but drive this business of life. It matters not how
many men are to be addressed,—rebuked,—provided one man rebuke them.


SMALL TALK

To manage the small talk of a party is to make an effort to do what was
at first done, admirably because naturally, at your fireside.


INFLUENCE

_Feb. 13._ It is hard to subject ourselves to an influence. It must
steal upon us when we expect it not, and its work be all done ere we
are aware of it. If we make advances, it is shy; if, when we feel its
presence, we presume to pry into its free-masonry, it vanishes and
leaves us alone in our folly,—brimful but stagnant,—a full channel, it
may be, but no inclination.


FEAR

All fear of the world or consequences is swallowed up in a manly anxiety
to do Truth justice.


OLD BOOKS

_Feb. 15._ The true student will cleave ever to the good, recognizing
no Past, no Present; but wherever he emerges from the bosom of time,
his course is not with the sun,—eastward or westward,—but ever towards
the seashore. Day and night pursues he his devious way, lingering by how
many a Pierian spring, how many an Academus grove, how many a sculptured
portico!—all which—spring, grove, and portico—lie not so wide but he
may take them conveniently in his way.


GREECE

_Feb. 16._ In imagination I hie me to Greece as to enchanted ground.
No storms vex her coasts, no clouds encircle her Helicon or Olympus,
no tempests sweep the peaceful Tempe or ruffle the bosom of the
placid Ægean; but always the beams of the summer's sun gleam along
the entablature of the Acropolis, or are reflected through the mellow
atmosphere from a thousand consecrated groves and fountains; always her
sea-girt isles are dallying with their zephyr guests, and the low of
kine is heard along the meads, and the landscape sleeps—valley and hill
and woodland—a dreamy sleep. Each of her sons created a new heaven and
a new earth for Greece.


SUNDAY

_Feb. 18._ Rightly named Suna-day, or day of the sun. One is satisfied
in some angle by wood-house and garden fence to bask in his beams—to
exist barely—the livelong day.


SPRING

I had not been out long to-day when it seemed that a new Spring was
already born,—not quite weaned, it is true, but verily entered upon
existence. Nature struck up "the same old song in the grass," despite
eighteen inches of snow, and I contrived to smuggle away a grin of
satisfaction by a smothered "Pshaw! and is that all?"


_Feb. 19._

     Each summer sound
     Is a summer round.[24]


GOETHE

_Feb. 27._ He jogs along at a snail's pace, but ever mindful that the
earth is beneath and the heavens above him. His Italy is not merely
the fatherland of lazzaroni and maccaroni but a solid turf-clad
soil, daily illumined by a genial sun and nightly gleaming in the
still moonshine,—to say nothing of the frequent showers which are
so faithfully recorded. That sail to Palermo was literally a plowing
through of the waves from Naples to Trinacria,—the sky overhead, and
the sea with its isles on either hand.

His hearty good-will to all men is most amiable; not one cross word
has he spoken, but on one occasion, the post boy snivelling, "Signore,
perdonate! quésta è la mia patria," he confesses, "to me poor northerner
came something tear-like into the eyes."[25]


SPRING

_March 1._ March fans it, April christens it, and May puts on its jacket
and trousers. It never grows up, but Alexandrian-like "drags its slow
length along," ever springing, bud following close upon leaf, and when
winter comes it is not annihilated, but creeps on mole-like under the
snow, showing its face nevertheless occasionally by fuming springs and
watercourses.

So let it be with man,—let his manhood be a more advanced and still
advancing youth, bud following hard upon leaf. By the side of the
ripening corn let's have a second or third crop of peas and turnips,
decking the fields in a new green. So amid clumps of sere herd's-grass
sometimes flower the violet and buttercup spring-born.


HOMER

_March 3._ Three thousand years and the world so little changed! The
Iliad seems like a natural sound which has reverberated to our days.
Whatever in it is still freshest in the memories of men was most
childlike in the poet. It is the problem of old age,—a second childhood
exhibited in the life of the world. Phœbus Apollo went like night,—ὁ
δ' ἤιε νυκτὶ ἐοικώς. This either refers to the gross atmosphere of the
plague darkening the sun, or to the crescent of night rising solemn and
stately in the east while the sun is setting in the west.

Then Agamemnon darkly lowers on Calchas, prophet of evil,—ὄσσε δέ οἱ
πυρὶ λαμπετόωντε ἐΐκτην,—such a fire-eyed Agamemnon as you may see at
town meetings and elections, as well here as in Troy neighborhood.


A SUNDAY SCENE

_March 4._ Here at my elbow sit five notable, or at least noteworthy,
representatives of this nineteenth century,—of the gender feminine.
One a sedate, indefatigable knitter, not spinster, of the old school,
who had the supreme felicity to be born in days that tried men's souls,
who can, and not unfrequently does, say with Nestor, another of the old
school: "But you are younger than I. For time was when I conversed with
greater men than you. For not at any time have I seen such men, nor
shall see them, as Perithous, and Dryas, and ποιμένα λαῶν," or, in one
word, sole "shepherd of the people," Washington.

And when Apollo has now six times rolled westward, or seemed to roll,
and now for the seventh time shows his face in the east, eyes well-nigh
glazed, long glassed, which have fluctuated only between lamb's wool and
worsted, explore ceaseless some good sermon book. For six days shalt
thou labor and do all thy knitting, but on the seventh, forsooth, thy
reading.[26]

Opposite, across this stone hearth, sits one of no school, but rather
one who schools, a spinster who spins not, with elbow resting on the
book of books, but with eyes turned towards the vain trumpery of that
shelf,—trumpery of sere leaves, blossoms, and waxwork, built on sand,
that presumes to look quite as gay, smell quite as earthy, as though
this were not by good rights the sun's day. I marked how she spurned
that innocent every-day book, "Germany by De Staël," as though a viper
had stung her;—better to rest the elbow on The Book than the eye on such
a page. Poor book! this is thy last chance.

Happy I who can bask in this warm spring sun which illumines all
creatures, as well when they rest as when they toil, not without a
feeling of gratitude! whose life is as blameless—how blameworthy soever
it be—on the Lord's Mona-day as on his Suna-day![27]

Thus much at least a man may do: he may not impose on his
fellows,—perhaps not on himself. Thus much _let_ a man do: confidently
and heartily live up to his thought; for its error, if there be any,
will soonest appear in practice, and if there be none, so much he may
reckon as actual progress in the way of living.


HOMER

The poet does not leap, even in imagination, from Asia to Greece through
mid-air, neglectful of the fair sea and still fairer land beneath him,
but jogs on humanly observant over the intervening segment of a sphere,—

                 ἐπειὴ μάλα πολλὰ μεταξύ
     Οὔρεά τε σκιόεντα, θάλασσά τε ἠχήεσσα,—

                 for there are very many
     Shady mountains, and resounding seas between.[28]


_March 5._ How often, when Achilles like one διάνδιχα μερμήριξεν whether
to retaliate or suppress his wrath, has his good Genius, like Pallas
Athene, gliding down from heaven, θυμῷ φιλέουσά τε, κηδομένη τε, stood
behind him, and whispered peace in his ear![29]

Men may dispute about the fact whether a goddess did actually come down
from heaven, calling it a poet's fancy, but was it not, considering the
stuff that gods are made of, a very truth?


THE AGE OF HONEY

     "And to them rose up the sweet-worded Nestor, the shrill orator of
           the Pylians,
     And words _sweeter than honey_ flowed from his tongue."[30]

E'en in old Homer's day was honey sweet,—not yet is sour,—tickling the
palate of the blind old man, forsooth, with fresher sweet; then, as now,
whene'er from leaky jar or drivelling lips it daubed the festive board,
proving a baneful lure to swarms of parasites, Homer's cotemporaries,
but alas! like Phthian hero, vulnerable in heel.


WHAT TO DO

But what does all this scribbling amount to? What is now scribbled
in the heat of the moment one can contemplate with somewhat of
satisfaction, but alas! to-morrow—aye, to-night—it is stale, flat, and
unprofitable,—in fine, is not, only its shell remains, like some red
parboiled lobster-shell which, kicked aside never so often, still stares
at you in the path.

What may a man do and not be ashamed of it? He may not do nothing
surely, for straightway he is dubbed Dolittle—aye! christens himself
first—and reasonably, for he was first to duck. But let him do
something, is he the less a Dolittle? Is it actually something done, or
not rather something undone; or, if done, is it not badly done, or at
most well done comparatively?

Such is man,—toiling, heaving, struggling ant-like to shoulder some
stray unappropriated crumb and deposit it in his granary; then runs
out, complacent, gazes heavenward, earthward (for even pismires can look
down), heaven and earth meanwhile looking downward, upward; there seen
of men, world-seen, deed-delivered, vanishes into all-grasping night.
And is he doomed ever to run the same course? Can he not, wriggling,
screwing, self-exhorting, self-constraining, wriggle or screw out
something that shall live,—respected, intact, intangible, not to be
sneezed at?[31]


_March 6._ How can a man sit down and quietly pare his nails, while the
earth goes gyrating ahead amid such a din of sphere music, whirling him
along about her axis some twenty-four thousand miles between sun and
sun, but mainly in a circle some two millions of miles actual progress?
And then such a hurly-burly on the surface—wind always blowing—now a
zephyr, now a hurricane—tides never idle, ever fluctuating—no rest for
Niagara, but perpetual ran-tan on those limestone rocks—and then that
summer simmering which our ears are used to, which would otherwise be
christened confusion worse confounded, but is now ironically called
"silence audible," and above all the incessant tinkering named "hum of
industry," the hurrying to and fro and confused jabbering of men. Can
man do less than get up and shake himself?


COMPOSITION

_March 7._ We should not endeavor coolly to analyze our thoughts, but,
keeping the pen even and parallel with the current, make an accurate
transcript of them. Impulse is, after all, the best linguist, and for
his logic, if not conformable to Aristotle, it cannot fail to be most
convincing. The nearer we approach to a complete but simple transcript
of our thought the more tolerable will be the piece, for we can endure
to consider ourselves in a state of passivity or in involuntary action,
but rarely our efforts, and least of all our rare efforts.


SCRAPS FROM A LECTURE ON "SOCIETY" WRITTEN MARCH 14TH, 1838, DELIVERED
BEFORE OUR LYCEUM, APRIL 11TH

Every proverb in the newspapers originally stood for a truth. Thus the
proverb that man was made for society, so long as it was not allowed to
conflict with another important truth, deceived no one; but, now that
the same words have come to stand for another thing, it may be for a
lie, we are obliged, in order to preserve its significance, to write it
anew, so that properly it will read, Society was made for man.

       *       *       *       *       *

Man is not at once born into society,—hardly into the world. The world
that he is hides for a time the world that he inhabits.

       *       *       *       *       *

That which properly constitutes the life of every man is a profound
secret. Yet this is what every one would give most to know, but is
himself most backward to impart.

       *       *       *       *       *

Hardly a rood of land but can show its fresh wound or indelible scar,
in proof that earlier or later man has been there.

       *       *       *       *       *

The mass never comes up to the standard of its best member, but on the
contrary degrades itself to a level with the lowest. As the reformers
say, it is a levelling down, not up. Hence the mass is only another
name for the mob. The inhabitants of the earth assembled in one place
would constitute the greatest mob. The mob is spoken of as an insane
and blinded animal; magistrates say it must be humored; they apprehend
it may incline this way or that, as villagers dread an inundation, not
knowing whose land may be flooded, nor how many bridges carried away.

       *       *       *       *       *

One goes to a cattle-show expecting to find many men and women
assembled, and beholds only working oxen and neat cattle. He goes to
a commencement thinking that there at least he may find the men of the
country; but such, if there were any, are completely merged in the day,
and have become so many walking commencements, so that he is fain to
take himself out of sight and hearing of the orator, lest he lose his
own identity in the nonentities around him.

       *       *       *       *       *

But you are getting all the while further and further from true society.
Your silence was an approach to it, but your conversation is only a
refuge from the encounter of men; as though men were to be satisfied
with a meeting of heels, and not heads.

Nor is it better with private assemblies, or meetings together, with a
sociable design, of acquaintances so called,—that is to say of men and
women who are familiar with the lineaments of each other's countenances,
who eat, drink, sleep, and transact the business of living within the
circuit of a mile.

With a beating heart he fares him forth, by the light of the stars, to
this meeting of gods. But the illusion speedily vanishes; what at first
seemed to him nectar and ambrosia, is discovered to be plain bohea and
short gingerbread.

Then with what speed does he throw off his strait-jacket of a godship,
and play the one-eared, two-mouthed mortal, thus proving his title
to the epithet applied to him of old by Homer of μέροψ ἄνθρωπος, or
that possesses an articulating voice. But unfortunately we have as yet
invented no rule by which the stranger may know when he has culminated.
We read that among the Finlanders when one "has succeeded in rendering
himself agreeable, it is a custom at an assemblage for all the women
present to give him on the back a sudden slap, when it is least
expected; and the compliment is in proportion to the weight of the
blow."

       *       *       *       *       *

It is provoking, when one sits waiting the assembling together of his
neighbors around his hearth, to behold merely their clay houses, for the
most part newly shingled and clapboarded, and not unfrequently with a
fresh coat of paint, trundled to his door. He has but to knock slightly
at the outer gate of one of these shingle palaces, to be assured that
the master or mistress is not at home.

After all, the field of battle possesses many advantages over the
drawing-room. There at least is no room for pretension or excessive
ceremony, no shaking of hands or rubbing of noses, which make one
doubt your sincerity, but hearty as well as hard hand-play. It at least
exhibits one of the faces of humanity, the former only a mask.

       *       *       *       *       *

The utmost nearness to which men approach each other amounts barely to
a mechanical contact. As when you rub two stones together, though they
emit an audible sound, yet do they not actually touch each other.

       *       *       *       *       *

In obedience to an instinct of their nature men have pitched their
cabins and planted corn and potatoes within speaking distance of one
another, and so formed towns and villages, but they have not associated,
they have only assembled, and society has signified only a _convention_
of men.

       *       *       *       *       *

When I think of a playhouse, it is as if we had not time to appreciate
the follies of the day in detail as they occur, and so devoted an hour
of our evening to laughing or crying at them in the lump. Despairing
of a more perfect intercourse, or perhaps never dreaming that such is
desirable, or at least possible, we are contented to act our part in
what deserves to be called the great farce, not drama, of life, like
pitiful and mercenary stock actors whose business it is to keep up the
semblance of a stage.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our least deed, like the young of the land crab, wends its way to the
sea of cause and effect as soon as born, and makes a drop there to
eternity.

       *       *       *       *       *

Let ours be like the meeting of two planets, not hastening to confound
their jarring spheres, but drawn together by the influence of a subtile
attraction, soon to roll diverse in their respective orbits, from this
their perigee, or point of nearest approach.

       *       *       *       *       *

If thy neighbor hail thee to inquire how goes the world, feel thyself
put to thy trumps to return a true and explicit answer. Plant the
feet firmly, and, will he nill he, dole out to him with strict and
conscientious impartiality his modicum of a response.

       *       *       *       *       *

Let not society be the element in which you swim, or are tossed about at
the mercy of the waves, but be rather a strip of firm land running out
into the sea, whose base is daily washed by the tide, but whose summit
only the spring tide can reach.

       *       *       *       *       *

But after all, such a morsel of society as this will not satisfy a
man. But like those women of Malamocco and Pelestrina, who when their
husbands are fishing at sea, repair to the shore and sing their shrill
songs at evening, till they hear the voices of their husbands in reply
borne to them over the water, so go we about indefatigably, chanting
our stanza of the lay, and awaiting the response of a kindred soul out
of the distance.


THE INDIAN AXE

_April 1._ The Indian must have possessed no small share of vital energy
to have rubbed industriously stone upon stone for long months till at
length he had rubbed out an axe or pestle,—as though he had said in the
face of the constant flux of things, I at least will live an enduring
life.


FRIENDSHIP

_April 8._

     I think awhile of Love, and, while I think,
             Love is to me a world,
                     Sole meat and sweetest drink,
             And close connecting link
               'Tween heaven and earth.

     I only know it is, not how or why,
             My greatest happiness;
             However hard I try,
             Not if I were to die,
               Can I explain.

     I fain would ask my friend how it can be,
             But, when the time arrives,
             Then Love is more lovely
             Than anything to me,
               And so I'm dumb.

     For, if the truth were known, Love cannot speak,
             But only thinks and does;
             Though surely out 't will leak
             Without the help of Greek,
               Or any tongue.

     A man may love the truth and practice it,
             Beauty he may admire,
             And goodness not omit,
             As much as may befit
               To reverence.

     But only when these three together meet,
             As they always incline,
             And make one soul the seat
                     And favorite retreat
               Of loveliness;

     When under kindred shape, like loves and hates
             And a kindred nature,
             Proclaim us to be mates,
             Exposed to equal fates
               Eternally;

     And each may other help, and service do,
             Drawing Love's bands more tight,
             Service he ne'er shall rue
             While one and one make two,
               And two are one;

     In such case only doth man fully prove,
             Fully as man can do,
             What power there is in Love
             His inmost soul to move
               Resistlessly.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Two sturdy oaks I mean, which side by side
             Withstand the winter's storm,
             And, spite of wind and tide,
             Grow up the meadow's pride,
               For both are strong.

     Above they barely touch, but, undermined
             Down to their deepest source,
             Admiring you shall find
                     Their roots are intertwined
               Insep'rably.


CONVERSATION

_April 15._ Thomas Fuller relates that "in Merionethshire, in Wales,
there are high mountains, whose hanging tops come so close together
that shepherds on the tops of several hills may audibly talk together,
yet will it be a day's journey for their bodies to meet, so vast is
the hollowness of the valleys betwixt them." As much may be said in a
moral sense of our intercourse in the plains, for, though we may audibly
converse together, yet is there so vast a gulf of hollowness between
that we are actually many days' journey from a veritable communication.


STEAMSHIPS

_April 24._ Men have been contriving new means and modes of motion.
Steamships have been westering during these late days and nights on
the Atlantic waves,—the fuglers of a new evolution to this generation.
Meanwhile plants spring silently by the brooksides, and the grim woods
wave indifferent; the earth emits no howl, pot on fire simmers and
seethes, and men go about their business.


THE BLUEBIRDS

_April 26._

     In the midst of the poplar that stands by our door
     We planted a bluebird box,
     And we hoped before the summer was o'er
     A transient pair to coax.


     One warm summer's day the bluebirds came
     And lighted on our tree,
     But at first the wand'rers were not so tame
     But they were afraid of me.

     They seemed to come from the distant south,
     Just over the Walden wood,
     And they skimmed it along with open mouth
     Close by where the bellows stood.

     Warbling they swept round the distant cliff,
     And they warbled it over the lea,
     And over the blacksmith's shop in a jiff
     Did they come warbling to me.

     They came and sat on the box's top
     Without looking into the hole,
     And only from this side to that did they hop,
     As 'twere a common well-pole.

     Methinks I had never seen them before,
     Nor indeed had they seen me,
     Till I chanced to stand by our back door,
     And they came to the poplar tree.

     In course of time they built their nest
     And reared a happy brood,
     And every morn they piped their best
     As they flew away to the wood.

     Thus wore the summer hours away
     To the bluebirds and to me,
     And every hour was a summer's day,
     So pleasantly lived we.

     They were a world within themselves,
     And I a world in me,
     Up in the tree—the little elves—
     With their callow family.

     One morn the wind blowed cold and strong,
     And the leaves went whirling away;
     The birds prepared for their journey long
     That raw and gusty day.

     Boreas came blust'ring down from the north,
     And ruffled their azure smocks,
     So they launched them forth, though somewhat loth,
     By way of the old Cliff rocks.

     Meanwhile the earth jogged steadily on
     In her mantle of purest white,
     And anon another spring was born
     When winter was vanished quite.

     And I wandered forth o'er the steamy earth,
     And gazed at the mellow sky,
     But never before from the hour of my birth
     Had I wandered so thoughtfully.

     For never before was the earth so still,
     And never so mild was the sky,
     The river, the fields, the woods, and the hill
     Seemed to heave an audible sigh.


     I felt that the heavens were all around,
     And the earth was all below,
     As when in the ears there rushes a sound
     Which thrills you from top to toe.

     I dreamed that I was a waking thought,
     A something I hardly knew,
     Not a solid piece, nor an empty nought,
     But a drop of morning dew.

     'Twas the world and I at a game of bo-peep,
     As a man would dodge his shadow,
     An idea becalmed in eternity's deep,
     'Tween Lima and Segraddo.

     Anon a faintly warbled note
     From out the azure deep
     Into my ears did gently float
     As is the approach of sleep.

     It thrilled but startled not my soul;
     Across my mind strange mem'ries gleamed,
     As often distant scenes unroll
     When we have lately dreamed.

     The bluebird had come from the distant South
     To his box in the poplar tree,
     And he opened wide his slender mouth
     On purpose to sing to me.


JOURNEY TO MAINE

_May 3-4._ Boston to Portland.

What, indeed, is this earth to us of New England but a field for Yankee
speculation? The Nantucket whaler goes a-fishing round it, and so knows
it,—what it is, how long, how broad, and that no tortoise sustains
it. He who has visited the confines of his real estate, looking out on
all sides into space, will feel a new inducement to _be_ the lord of
creation.

We must all pay a small tribute to Neptune; the chief engineer must once
have been seasick.

Midnight—head over the boat's side—between sleeping and waking—with
glimpses of one or more lights in the vicinity of Cape Ann. Bright
moonlight—the effect heightened by seasickness. Beyond that light yonder
have my lines hitherto been cast, but now I know that there lies not
the whole world, for I can say it is there and not here.

_May 4._ Portland. There is a proper and only right way to enter a city,
as well as to make advances to a strange person; neither will allow of
the least forwardness nor bustle. A sensitive person can hardly elbow
his way boldly, laughing and talking, into a strange town, without
experiencing some twinges of conscience, as when he has treated a
stranger with too much familiarity.

_May 5._ Portland to Bath _via_ Brunswick; Bath to Brunswick.

Each one's world is but a clearing in the forest, so much open and
inclosed ground. When the mail coach rumbles into one of these, the
villagers gaze after you with a compassionate look, as much as to say:
"Where have you been all this time, that you make your début in the
world at this late hour? Nevertheless, here we are; come and study us,
that you may learn men and manners."

_May 6._ Brunswick to Augusta _via_ Gardiner and Hallowell.

_May 7._ We occasionally meet an individual of a character and
disposition so entirely the reverse of our own that we wonder if he
can indeed be another man like ourselves. We doubt if we ever could
draw any nearer to him, and understand him. Such was the old English
gentleman whom I met with to-day in H. Though I peered in at his eyes
I could not discern myself reflected therein. The chief wonder was how
we could ever arrive at so fair-seeming an intercourse upon so small
ground of sympathy. He walked and fluttered like a strange bird at my
side, prying into and making a handle of the least circumstance. The
bustle and rapidity of our communication were astonishing; we skated
in our conversation. All at once he would stop short in the path, and,
in an abstracted air, query whether the steamboat had reached Bath or
Portland, addressing me from time to time as his familiar genius, who
could understand what was passing in his mind without the necessity of
uninterrupted oral communication.

_May 8._ Augusta to Bangor _via_ China.

_May 10._ Bangor to Oldtown.

The railroad from Bangor to Oldtown is civilization shooting off in
a tangent into the forest. I had much conversation with an old Indian
at the latter place, who sat dreaming upon a scow at the waterside and
striking his deer-skin moccasins against the planks, while his arms hung
listlessly by his side. He was the most communicative man I had met.
Talked of hunting and fishing, old times and new times. Pointing up the
Penobscot, he observed, "Two or three mile up the river one beautiful
country!" and then, as if he would come as far to meet me as I had
gone to meet him, he exclaimed, "Ugh! one very hard time!" But he had
mistaken his man.

_May 11._ Bangor to Belfast _via_ Saturday Cove.

_May 12._ Belfast.

_May 13._ To Castine by sailboat "Cinderilla [_sic_]."

_May 14._ Castine to Belfast by packet, Captain Skinner. Found the Poems
of Burns and an odd volume of the "Spectator" in the cabin.

_May 15._ Belfast to Bath _via_ Thomaston.

_May 16._ To Portland.

_May 17._ To Boston and Concord.


MAY MORNING

_May 21._

     The school-boy loitered on his way to school,
     Scorning to live so rare a day by rule.
     So mild the air a pleasure 'twas to breathe,
     For what seems heaven above was earth beneath.

     Soured neighbors chatted by the garden pale,
     Nor quarrelled who should drive the needed nail;
     The most unsocial made new friends that day,
     As when the sun shines husbandmen make hay.

     How long I slept I know not, but at last
     I felt my consciousness returning fast,
     For Zephyr rustled past with leafy tread,
     And heedlessly with one heel grazed my head.

     My eyelids opened on a field of blue,
     For close above a nodding violet grew;
     A part of heaven it seemed, which one could scent,
     Its blue commingling with the firmament.


WALDEN

_June 3._

     True, our converse a stranger is to speech;
     Only the practiced ear can catch the surging words
     That break and die upon thy pebbled lips.
     Thy flow of thought is noiseless as the lapse of thy own waters,
     Wafted as is the morning mist up from thy surface,
     So that the passive Soul doth breathe it in,
     And is infected with the truth thou wouldst express.

     E'en the remotest stars have come in troops
     And stooped low to catch the benediction
     Of thy countenance. Oft as the day came round,
     Impartial has the sun exhibited himself
     Before thy narrow skylight; nor has the moon
     For cycles failed to roll this way
     As oft as elsewhither, and tell thee of the night.
     No cloud so rare but hitherward it stalked,
     And in thy face looked doubly beautiful.
     O! tell me what the winds have writ for the last thousand years
     On the blue vault that spans thy flood,
     Or sun transferred and delicately reprinted
     For thy own private reading. Somewhat
     Within these latter days I've read,
     But surely there was much that would have thrilled the Soul,
     Which human eye saw not.
     I would give much to read that first bright page,
     Wet from a virgin press, when Eurus, Boreas,
     And the host of airy quill-drivers
     First dipped their pens in mist.


_June 14._

     Truth, Goodness, Beauty,—those celestial thrins,[32]
     Continually are born; e'en now the Universe,
     With thousand throats, and eke with greener smiles,
     Its joy confesses at their recent birth.

     Strange that so many fickle gods, as fickle as the weather,
     Throughout Dame Nature's provinces should always pull together.


_June 16._

     In the busy streets, domains of trade,
     Man is a surly porter, or a vain and hectoring bully,
     Who can claim no nearer kindredship with me
     Than brotherhood by law.


CLIFFS

_July 8._

     The loudest sound that burdens here the breeze
     Is the wood's whisper; 'tis, when we choose to list,
     Audible sound, and when we list not,
     It is calm profound. Tongues were provided
     But to vex the ear with superficial thoughts.
     When deeper thoughts upswell, the jarring discord
     Of harsh speech is hushed, and senses seem
     As little as may be to share the ecstasy.


HEROISM

_July 13._ What a hero one can be without moving a finger! The world
is not a field worthy of us, nor can we be satisfied with the plains of
Troy. A glorious strife seems waging within us, yet so noiselessly that
we but just catch the sound of the clarion ringing of victory, borne
to us on the breeze. There are in each the seeds of a heroic ardor,
which need only to be stirred in with the _soil where they lie_, by an
inspired voice or pen, to bear fruit of a divine flavor.[33]


SUSPICION

_July 15._ What though friends misinterpret your conduct, if it is right
in sight of God and Nature. The wrong, if there be any, pertains only to
the wrongdoer, nor is the integrity of your relations to the universe
affected, but you may gather encouragement from their mistrust. If the
friend withhold his favor, yet does greater float gratuitous on the
zephyr.


TRUTH

_Aug. 4._ Whatever of past or present wisdom has published itself to the
world, is palpable falsehood till it come and utter itself by my side.



SPHERE MUSIC

_Aug. 5._ Some sounds seem to reverberate along the plain, and then
settle to earth again like dust; such are Noise, Discord, Jargon.
But such only as spring heavenward, and I may catch from steeples and
hilltops in their upward course, which are the more refined parts of
the former, are the true sphere music,—pure, unmixed music,—in which no
wail mingles.


DIVINE SERVICE IN THE ACADEMY HALL

In dark places and dungeons these words might perhaps strike root and
grow, but utter them in the daylight and their dusky hues are apparent.
From this window I can compare the written with the preached word:
within is weeping, and wailing, and gnashing of teeth; without, grain
fields and grasshoppers, which give those the lie direct.


THE TIME OF THE UNIVERSE

_Aug. 10._ Nor can all the vanities that so vex the world alter one
whit the measure that night has chosen, but ever it must be short
particular metre. The human soul is a silent harp in God's quire,
whose strings need only to be swept by the divine breath to chime in
with the harmonies of creation. Every pulse-beat is in exact time with
the cricket's chant, and the tickings of the death-watch in the wall.
Alternate with these if you can.[34]


CONSCIOUSNESS

_Aug. 13._ If with closed ears and eyes I consult consciousness for a
moment, immediately are all walls and barriers dissipated, earth rolls
from under me, and I float, by the impetus derived from the earth and
the system, a subjective, heavily laden thought, in the midst of an
unknown and infinite sea, or else heave and swell like a vast ocean
of thought, without rock or headland, where are all riddles solved,
all straight lines making there their two ends to meet, eternity and
space gambolling familiarly through my depths. I am from the beginning,
knowing no end, no aim. No sun illumines me, for I dissolve all lesser
lights in my own intenser and steadier light. I am a restful kernel in
the magazine of the universe.


RESOURCE

Men are constantly dinging in my ears their fair theories and plausible
solutions of the universe, but ever there is no help, and I return again
to my shoreless, islandless ocean, and fathom unceasingly for a bottom
that will hold an anchor, that it may not drag.


SABBATH BELL

_Aug. 19._ The sound of the sabbath bell, whose farthest waves are
at this instant breaking on these cliffs, does not awaken pleasing
associations alone. Its muse is wonderfully condescending and
philanthropic. One involuntarily leans on his staff to humor the
unusually meditative mood. It is as the sound of many catechisms and
religious books twanging a canting peal round the world, and seems
to issue from some Egyptian temple, and echo along the shore of the
Nile, right opposite to Pharaoh's palace and Moses in the bulrushes,
startling a multitude of storks and alligators basking in the sun. Not
so these larks and pewees of Musketaquid. One is sick at heart of this
pagoda worship. It is like the beating of gongs in a Hindoo subterranean
temple.[35]


HOLY WAR

_Aug. 21._ Passion and appetite are always an unholy land in which
one may wage most holy war. Let him steadfastly follow the banner of
his faith till it is planted on the enemy's citadel. Nor shall he lack
fields to display his valor in, nor straits worthy of him. For when he
has blown his blast, and smote those within reach, invisible enemies
will not cease to torment him, who yet may be starved out in the
garrisons where they lie.


SCRIPTURE

_Aug. 22._ How thrilling a noble sentiment in the oldest books,—in
Homer, the Zendavesta, or Confucius! It is a strain of music wafted down
to us on the breeze of time, through the aisles of innumerable ages. By
its very nobleness it is made near and audible to us.


EVENING SOUNDS

_Aug. 26._ How strangely sounds of revelry strike the ear from over
cultivated fields by the woodside, while the sun is declining in the
west. It is a world we had not known before. We listen and are capable
of no mean act or thought. We tread on Olympus and participate in the
councils of the gods.


HOMER

It does one's heart good if Homer but say the sun sets,—or, "As when
beautiful stars accompany the bright moon through the serene heavens;
and the woody hills and cliffs are discerned through the mild light,
and each star is visible, and the shepherd rejoices in his heart."[36]


THE LOSS OF A TOOTH

_Aug. 27._ Verily I am the creature of circumstances. Here I have
swallowed an indispensable tooth, and so am no whole man, but a lame
and halting piece of manhood. I am conscious of no gap in my soul, but
it would seem that, now the entrance to the oracle has been enlarged,
the more rare and commonplace the responses that issue from it. I
have felt cheap, and hardly dared hold up my head among men, ever
since this accident happened. Nothing can I do as well and freely as
before; nothing do I undertake but I am hindered and balked by this
circumstance. What a great matter a little spark kindleth! I believe if
I were called at this moment to rush into the thickest of the fight, I
should halt for lack of so insignificant a piece of armor as a tooth.
Virtue and Truth go undefended, and Falsehood and Affectation are thrown
in my teeth,—though I am toothless. One does not need that the earth
quake for the sake of excitement, when so slight a crack proves such an
impassable moat. But let the lame man shake his leg, and match himself
with the fleetest in the race. So shall he do what is in him to do. But
let him who has lost a tooth open his mouth wide and gabble, lisp, and
sputter never so resolutely.


DEFORMITY

_Aug. 29._ Here at the top of Nawshawtuct, this mild August afternoon,
I can discern no deformed thing. The prophane hay-makers in yonder
meadow are yet the hay-makers of poetry,—forsooth Faustus and Amyntas.
Yonder schoolhouse of brick, than which, near at hand, nothing can be
more mote-like to my eye, serves even to heighten the picturesqueness
of the scene. Barns and outbuildings, which in the nearness mar by their
presence the loveliness of nature, are not only endurable, but, observed
where they lie by some waving field of grain or patch of woodland, prove
a very cynosure to the pensive eye. Let man after infinite hammering
and din of crows uprear a deformity in the plain, yet will Nature have
her revenge on the hilltop. Retire a stone's throw and she will have
changed his base metal into gold.


CRICKETS

The crackling flight of grasshoppers is a luxury; and pleasant is it
when summer has once more followed in the steps of winter to hear scald
cricket piping a Nibelungenlied in the grass. It is the most infinite
of singers. Wiselier had the Greeks chosen a golden cricket, and let
the grasshopper eat grass. One opens both his ears to the invisible,
incessant quire, and doubts if it be not earth herself chanting for all
time.


GENII

In the vulgar daylight of our self-conceit, good genii are still
overlooking and conducting us; as the stars look down on us by day as
by night—and we observe them not.


SPHERE MUSIC

_Sept. 2._ The cocks chant a strain of which we never tire. Some
there are who find pleasure in the melody of birds and chirping of
crickets,—aye, even the peeping of frogs. Such faint sounds as these are
for the most part heard above the weeping and wailing and gnashing of
teeth which so unhallow the Sabbath among us. The moan the earth makes
is after all a very faint sound, infinitely inferior in volume to its
creakings of joy and gleeful murmurs; so that we may expect the next
balloonist will rise above the utmost range of discordant sounds into
the region of pure melody. Never so loud was the wail but it seemed to
taper off into a piercing melody and note of joy, which lingered not
amid the clods of the valley.


CREEDS

_Sept. 3._ The only faith that men recognize is a creed. But the true
creed which we unconsciously live by, and which rather adopts us than we
it, is quite different from the written or preached one. Men anxiously
hold fast to their creed, as to a straw, thinking this does them good
service because their sheet anchor does not drag.[37]


RIVERS

_Sept. 5._ For the first time it occurred to me this afternoon what a
piece of wonder a river is,—a huge volume of matter ceaselessly rolling
through the fields and meadows of this substantial earth, making
haste from the high places, by stable dwellings of men and Egyptian
Pyramids, to its restless reservoir. One would think that, by a very
natural impulse, the dwellers upon the headwaters of the Mississippi
and Amazon would follow in the trail of their waters to see the end of
the matter.[38]


HOMER

_Sept. 7._ When Homer's messengers repair to the tent of Achilles, we do
not have to wonder how they get there, but step by step accompany them
along the shore of the resounding sea.[39]


FLOW OF SPIRITS IN YOUTH

_Sept. 15._ How unaccountable the flow of spirits in youth. You may
throw sticks and dirt into the current, and it will only rise the
higher. Dam it up you may, but dry it up you may not, for you cannot
reach its source. If you stop up this avenue or that, anon it will come
gurgling out where you least expected and wash away all fixtures. Youth
grasps at happiness as an inalienable right. The tear does no sooner
gush than glisten. Who shall say when the tear that sprung of sorrow
first sparkled with joy?


ALMA NATURA

_Sept. 20._ It is a luxury to muse by a wall-side in the sunshine of
a September afternoon,—to cuddle down under a gray stone, and hearken
to the siren song of the cricket. Day and night seem henceforth but
accidents, and the time is always a still eventide, and as the close of
a happy day. Parched fields and mulleins gilded with the slanting rays
are my diet. I know of no word so fit to express this disposition of
Nature as Alma Natura.


COMPENSATION

_Sept. 23._ If we will be quiet and ready enough, we shall find
compensation in every disappointment. If a shower drives us for shelter
to the maple grove or the trailing branches of the pine, yet in their
recesses with microscopic eye we discover some new wonder in the bark,
or the leaves, or the fungi at our feet. We are interested by some
new resource of insect economy, or the chickadee is more than usually
familiar. We can study Nature's nooks and corners then.[40]


MY BOOTS

_Oct. 16._

     Anon with gaping fearlessness they quaff
     The dewy nectar with a natural thirst,
     Or wet their leathern lungs where cranberries lurk,
     With sweeter wine than Chian, Lesbian, or Falernian far.
     Theirs was the inward lustre that bespeaks
     An open sole—unknowing to exclude
     The cheerful day—a worthier glory far
     Than that which gilds the outmost rind with darkness visible—
     Virtues that fast abide through lapse of years,
     Rather rubbed in than off.


HOMER

_Oct. 21._ Hector hurrying from rank to rank is likened to the moon
wading in majesty from cloud to cloud. We are reminded of the hour of
the day by the fact that the woodcutter spreads now his morning meal in
the recesses of the mountains, having already laid his axe at the root
of many lofty trees.[41]


_Oct. 23._ Nestor's simple repast after the rescue of Machaon is a fit
subject for poetry. The woodcutter may sit down to his cold victuals,
the hero to soldier's fare, and the wild Arab to his dried dates and
figs, without offense; but not so a modern gentleman to his dinner.


_Oct. 24._ It matters not whether these strains originate there in the
grass or float thitherward like atoms of light from the minstrel days
of Greece.

"The snowflakes fall thick and fast on a winter's day. The winds
are lulled, and the snow falls incessant, covering the tops of the
mountains, and the hills, and the plains where the lotus tree grows, and
the cultivated fields. And they are falling by the inlets and shores of
the foaming sea, but are silently dissolved by the waves."[42]


SPECULATION

_Dec. 7._ We may believe it, but never do we live a quiet, free
life, such as Adam's, but are enveloped in an invisible network of
speculations. Our progress is only from one such speculation to another,
and only at rare intervals do we perceive that it is no progress. Could
we for a moment drop this by-play, and simply wonder, without reference
or inference!


BYRON

_Dec. 8._ Nothing in nature is sneaking or chapfallen, as somewhat
maltreated and slighted, but each is satisfied with its being, and so
is as lavender and balm. If skunk-cabbage is offensive to the nostrils
of men, still has it not drooped in consequence, but trustfully
unfolded its leaf of two hands' breadth. What was it to Lord Byron
whether England owned or disowned him, whether he smelled sour and was
skunk-cabbage to the English nostril or violet-like, the pride of the
land and ornament of every lady's boudoir? Let not the oyster grieve
that he has lost the race; he has gained as an oyster.


FAIR HAVEN[43]

_Dec. 15._

     When winter fringes every bough
     With his fantastic wreath,
     And puts the seal of silence now
     Upon the leaves beneath;

     When every stream in its penthouse
     Goes gurgling on its way,
     And in his gallery the mouse
     Nibbleth the meadow hay;

     Methinks the summer still is nigh,
     And lurketh there below,
     As that same meadow mouse doth lie
     Snug underneath the snow.


     And if perchance the chickadee
     Lisp a faint note anon,
     The snow is summer's canopy,
     Which she herself put on.

     Rare blossoms deck the cheerful trees,
     And dazzling fruits depend,
     The north wind sighs a summer breeze,
     The nipping frosts to fend,

     Bringing glad tidings unto me,
     While that I stand all ear,
     Of a serene eternity,
     That need not winter fear.

     Out on the silent pond straightway
     The restless ice doth crack,
     And pond sprites merry gambols play
     Amid the deaf'ning rack.

     Eager I press me to the vale
     As I had heard brave news,
     How nature held high festival,
     Which it were hard to lose.

     I crack me with my neighbor ice,
     And sympathizing quake,
     As each new rent darts in a trice
     Across the gladsome lake.

     One with the cricket in the ground,
     And fuel on the hearth,
     Resounds the rare domestic sound
     Along the forest path.

     Fair Haven is my huge tea-urn
     That seethes and sings to me,
     And eke the crackling fagots burn,—
     A homebred minstrelsy.


SOME SCRAPS FROM AN ESSAY ON "SOUND AND SILENCE" WRITTEN IN THE LATTER
HALF OF THIS MONTH,—DECEMBER, 1838[44]

As the truest society approaches always nearer to solitude, so the
most excellent speech finally falls into silence. We go about to find
Solitude and Silence, as though they dwelt only in distant glens and the
depths of the forest, venturing out from these fastnesses at midnight.
Silence _was_, say we, before ever the world was, as if creation had
displaced her, and were not her visible framework and foil. It is only
favorite dells that she deigns to frequent, and we dream not that she is
then imported into them when we wend thither, as Selden's butcher busied
himself with looking after his knife, when he had it in his mouth. For
where man is, there is Silence.

       *       *       *       *       *

Silence is the communing of a conscious soul with itself. If the soul
attend for a moment to its own infinity, then and there is silence. She
is audible to all men, at all times, in all places, and if we will we
may always hearken to her admonitions.

       *       *       *       *       *

Silence is ever less strange than noise, lurking amid the boughs of
the hemlock or pine just in proportion as we find ourselves there. The
nuthatch, tapping the upright trunks by our side, is only a partial
spokesman for the solemn stillness.

       *       *       *       *       *

She is always at hand with her wisdom, by roadsides and street corners;
lurking in belfries, the cannon's mouth, and the wake of the earthquake;
gathering up and fondling their puny din in her ample bosom.

       *       *       *       *       *

Those divine sounds which are uttered to our inward ear—which are
breathed in with the zephyr or reflected from the lake—come to us
noiselessly, bathing the temples of the soul, as we stand motionless
amid the rocks.

       *       *       *       *       *

The halloo is the creature of walls and mason work; the whisper is
fittest in the depths of the wood, or by the shore of the lake; but
silence is best adapted to the acoustics of space.

       *       *       *       *       *

All sounds are her servants and purveyors, proclaiming not only that
their mistress is, but is a rare mistress, and earnestly to be sought
after. Behind the most distinct and significant hovers always a more
significant silence which floats it. The thunder is only our signal gun,
that we may know what communion awaits us. Not its dull sound, but the
infinite expansion of our being which ensues, we praise and unanimously
name sublime.

All sound is nearly akin to Silence; it is a bubble on her surface
which straightway bursts, an emblem of the strength and prolificness
of the undercurrent. It is a faint utterance of Silence, and then
only agreeable to our auditory nerves when it contrasts itself with
the former. In proportion as it does this, and is a heightener and
intensifier of the Silence, it is harmony and purest melody.

       *       *       *       *       *

Every melodious sound is the ally of Silence,—a help and not a hindrance
to abstraction.

       *       *       *       *       *

Certain sounds more than others have found favor with the poets only as
foils to silence.

       *       *       *       *       *


ANACREON'S ODE TO THE CICADA[45]

     We pronounce thee happy, cicada,
     For on the tops of the trees,
     Sipping a little dew,
     Like any king thou singest,
     For thine are they all,
     Whatever thou seest in the fields,
     And whatever the woods bear.
     Thou art the friend of the husbandmen,
     In no respect injuring any one;
     And thou art honored among men,
     Sweet prophet of summer.
     The Muses love thee,
     And Phœbus himself loves thee,
     And has given thee a shrill song;
     Age does not wrack thee,
     Thou skillful, earth-born, song-loving,
     Unsuffering, bloodless one;
     Almost thou art like the gods.

       *       *       *       *       *

Silence is the universal refuge, the sequel of all dry discourses and
all foolish acts, as balm to our every chagrin, as welcome after satiety
as [after] disappointment; that background which the painter may not
daub, be he master or bungler, and which, however awkward a figure he
may have made in the foreground, remains ever our inviolable asylum.

       *       *       *       *       *

With what equanimity does the silent consider how his world goes,
settles the awards of virtue and justice, is slandered and buffeted
never so much and views it all as a phenomenon. He is one with Truth,
Goodness, Beauty. No indignity can assail him, no personality disturb
him.

       *       *       *       *       *

The orator puts off his individuality, and is then most eloquent when
most silent. He listens while he speaks, and is a hearer along with his
audience.

       *       *       *       *       *

Who has not hearkened to her infinite din? She is Truth's speaking
trumpet, which every man carries slung over his shoulder, and when he
will may apply to his ear. She is the sole oracle, the true Delphi and
Dodona, which kings and courtiers would do well to consult, nor will
they be balked by an ambiguous answer. Through her have all revelations
been made. Just as far as men have consulted her oracle, they have
obtained a clear insight, and their age been marked for an enlightened
one. But as often as they have gone gadding abroad to a strange Delphi
and her mad priestess, they have been benighted, and their age Dark or
Leaden.—These are garrulous and noisy eras, which no longer yield any
sound; but the Grecian, or _silent_ and melodious, Era is ever sounding
on the ears of men.

       *       *       *       *       *

A good book is the plectrum with which our silent lyres are struck. In
all epics, when, after breathless attention, we come to the significant
words "He said," then especially our inmost man is addressed. We not
unfrequently refer the interest which belongs to our own unwritten
sequel to the written and comparatively lifeless page. Of all valuable
books this same sequel makes an indispensable part. It is the author's
aim to say once and emphatically, "He said." This is the most the
bookmaker can attain to. If he make his volume a foil whereon the
waves of silence may break, it is well. It is not so much the sighing
of the blast as that pause, as Gray expresses it, "when the gust is
recollecting itself," that thrills us, and is infinitely grander than
the importunate howlings of the storm.

       *       *       *       *       *

At evening Silence sends many emissaries to me, some navigating the
subsiding waves which the village murmur has agitated.

       *       *       *       *       *

It were vain for me to interpret the Silence. She cannot be done into
English. For six thousand years have men translated her, with what
fidelity belonged to each; still is she little better than a sealed
book. A man may run on confidently for a time, thinking he has her under
his thumb, and shall one day exhaust her, but he too must at last be
silent, and men remark only how brave a beginning he made; for, when
he at length dives into her, so vast is the disproportion of the told
to the untold that the former will seem but the bubble on the surface
where he disappeared.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nevertheless will we go on, like those Chinese cliff swallows,
feathering our nests with the froth, so they may one day be bread of
life to such as dwell by the seashore.


ANACREONTICS

RETURN OF SPRING[46]

_Dec. 23._

     Behold, how, spring appearing,
     The Graces send forth roses;
     Behold, how the wave of the sea
     Is made smooth by the calm;
     Behold, how the duck dives;
     Behold, how the crane travels;
     And Titan shines constantly bright.
     The shadows of the clouds are moving;
     The works of man shine;
     The earth puts forth fruits;
     The fruit of the olive puts forth.
     The cup of Bacchus is crowned.
     Along the leaves, along the branches,
     The fruit, bending them down, flourishes.


CUPID WOUNDED[47]

     Love once among roses
     A sleeping bee
     Did not see, but was stung;
     And, being wounded in the finger
     Of his hand, cried for pain.
     Running as well as flying
     To the beautiful Venus,
     I am killed, mother, said he,
     I am killed, and I die.
     A little serpent has stung me,
     Winged, which they call
     A bee,—the husbandmen.
     And she said, If the sting
     Of a bee afflicts you,
     How, think you, are they afflicted,
     Love, whom you smite?

[_Dated only 1838._] Sometimes I hear the veery's silver clarion, or the
brazen note of the impatient jay, or in secluded woods the chickadee
doles out her scanty notes, which sing the praise of heroes, and set
forth the loveliness of virtue evermore.—_Phe-be._[48]




III

1839

(ÆT. 21-22)


THE THAW[49]

_Jan. 11._

     I saw the civil sun drying earth's tears,
     Her tears of joy, that only faster flowed.

     Fain would I stretch me by the highway-side,
     To thaw and trickle with the melting snow,
     That, mingled soul and body with the tide,
     I too may through the pores of nature flow.

     But I, alas, nor trickle can nor fume,
     One jot to forward the great work of Time,
     'Tis mine to hearken while these ply the loom,
     So shall my silence with their music chime.


THE DREAM VALLEY

_Jan. 20._ The prospect of our river valley from Tahatawan Cliff
appeared to me again in my dreams.

     Last night, as I lay gazing with shut eyes
         Into the golden land of dreams,
     I thought I gazed adown a quiet reach
       Of land and water prospect,
         Whose low beach
     Was peopled with the now subsiding hum
     Of happy industry, whose work is done.

     And as I turned me on my pillow o'er,
     I heard the lapse of waves upon the shore,
     Distinct as it had been at broad noonday,
     And I were wandering at Rockaway.


LOVE

     We two that planets erst had been
     Are now a double star,
     And in the heavens may be seen,
     Where that we fixèd are.

     Yet, whirled with subtle power along,
     Into new space we enter,
     And evermore with spheral song
     Revolve about one centre.


_Feb. 3._

     The deeds of king and meanest hedger
     Stand side by side in heaven's ledger.

       *       *       *       *       *

     'Twill soon appear if we but look
     At evening into earth's day-book,
     Which way the great account doth stand
     Between the heavens and the land.


THE EVENING WIND

     The eastern mail comes lumbering in,
     With outmost waves of Europe's din;
     The western sighs adown the slope,
     Or 'mid the rustling leaves doth grope,
     Laden with news from Californ',
     Whate'er transpired hath since morn,
     How wags the world by brier and brake,
     From hence to Athabasca lake.[50]


POETIZING

_Feb. 8._ When the poetic frenzy seizes us, we run and scratch with our
pen, delighting, like the cock, in the dust we make, but do not detect
where the jewel lies, which perhaps we have in the meantime cast to a
distance, or quite covered up again.[51]


_Feb. 9._ It takes a man to make a room silent.


THE PEAL OF THE BELLS[52]

_Feb. 10._

     When the world grows old by the chimney-side,
     Then forth to the youngling rocks I glide,
     Where over the water, and over the land,
     The bells are booming on either hand.

     Now up they go ding, then down again dong,
     And awhile they swing to the same old song,
     And the metal goes round at a single bound,
     A-lulling the fields with its measured sound,
     Till the tired tongue falls with a lengthened boom
     As solemn and loud as the crack of doom.


     Then changed is their measure to tone upon tone,
     And seldom it is that one sound comes alone,
     For they ring out their peals in a mingled throng,
     And the breezes waft the loud ding-dong along.

     When the echo has reached me in this lone vale,
     I am straightway a hero in coat of mail,
     I tug at my belt and I march on my post,
     And feel myself more than a match for a host.

     I am on the alert for some wonderful Thing
     Which somewhere 's a-taking place;
     'Tis perchance the salute which our planet doth ring
     When it meeteth another in space.


THE SHRIKE

_Feb. 25._

     Hark! hark! from out the thickest fog
     Warbles with might and main
     The fearless shrike, as all agog
     To find in fog his gain.

     His steady sails he never furls
     At any time o' year,
     And, perched now on Winter's curls,
     He whistles in his ear.[53]


THE POET

_March 3._ He must be something more than natural,—even supernatural.
Nature will not speak through but along with him. His voice will
not proceed from her midst, but, breathing on her, will make her the
expression of his thought. He then poetizes when he takes a fact out
of nature into spirit. He speaks without reference to time or place.
His thought is one world, hers another. He is another Nature,—Nature's
brother. Kindly offices do they perform for one another. Each publishes
the other's truth.


MORNING

_April 4._ The atmosphere of morning gives a healthy hue to our
prospects. Disease is a sluggard that overtakes, never encounters,
us. We have the start each day, and may fairly distance him before the
dew is off; but if we recline in the bowers of noon, he will come up
with us after all. The morning dew breeds no cold. We enjoy a diurnal
reprieve in the beginning of each day's creation. In the morning we do
not believe in expediency; we will start afresh, and have no patching,
no temporary fixtures. The afternoon man has an interest in the past;
his eye is divided, and he sees indifferently well either way.


DRIFTING

Drifting in a sultry day on the sluggish waters of the pond, I almost
cease to live and begin to be. A boatman stretched on the deck of his
craft and dallying with the noon would be as apt an emblem of eternity
for me as the serpent with his tail in his mouth. I am never so prone
to lose my identity. I am dissolved in the haze.


DISAPPOINTMENT

_April 7. Sunday._ The tediousness and detail of execution never occur
to the genius projecting; it always antedates the completion of its
work. It condescends to give time a few hours to do its bidding in.


RESOLVE

Most have sufficient contempt for what is mean to resolve that they will
abstain from it, and a few virtue enough to abide by their resolution,
but not often does one attain to such lofty contempt as to require no
resolution to be made.


THE TEAMSTER

_April 8._ There goes a six-horse team, and a man by its side. He
has rolled out of his cradle into a Tom-and-Jerry, and goes about his
business while Nature goes about hers, without standing agape at his
condition. As though sixty years were not enough for these things! What
have death, and the cholera, and the immortal destiny of man, to do
with the shipping interests? There is an unexplained bravery in this.
What with bare astonishment one would think that man had his hands
full for so short a term. But this is no drawback on the lace-working
and cap-making interests. Some attain to such a degree of sang-froid
and nonchalance as to be weavers of toilet cushions and manufacturers
of pinheads, without once flinching or the slightest affection of the
nerves, for the period of a natural life.[54]


FAT PINE FOR SPEARING

_April 9._ Fat roots of pine lying in rich veins as of gold or silver,
even in old pastures where you would least expect it, make you realize
that you live in the youth of the world, and you begin to know the
wealth of the planet. Human nature is still in its prime, then. Bring
axe, pickaxe, and shovel, and tap the earth here where there is most
sap. The marrowy store gleams like some vigorous sinew, and you feel a
new suppleness in your own limbs. These are the traits that conciliate
man's moroseness, and make him civil to his fellows; every such pine
root is a pledge of suavity. If he can discover absolute barrenness in
any direction there will be some excuse for peevishness.


SOCIETY

_April 14._ There is a _terra firma_ in society as well as in geography,
some whose ports you may make by dead reckoning in all weather. All the
rest are but floating and fabulous Atlantides which sometimes skirt the
western horizon of our intercourse. They impose only on seasick mariners
who have put into some Canary Island on the frontiers of society.


CIRCUMSTANCES

_April 24._ Why should we concern ourselves with what has happened to
us, and the unaccountable fickleness of events, and not rather [with]
how we have happened to the universe, and it has demeaned itself in
consequence? Let us record in each case the judgment we have awarded to
circumstances.


ACQUAINTANCE

Cheap persons will stand upon ceremony, because there is no other
ground; but to the great of the earth we need no introduction, nor do
they need any to us.


THE KINGDOMS OF THE EARTH

_April 25._ If we see the reality in things, of what moment is the
superficial and apparent? Take the earth and all the interests it
has known,—what are they beside one deep surmise that pierces and
scatters them? The independent beggar disposes of all with one hearty,
significant curse by the roadside. 'Tis true they are not worth a
"tinker's damn."


PICTURE

_April 30._ Of some illuminated pictures which I saw last evening, one
representing the plain of Babylon, with only a heap of brick-dust in
the centre, and an uninterrupted horizon bounding the desert, struck
me most. I would see painted a boundless expanse of desert, prairie,
or sea, without other object than the horizon. The heavens and the
earth,—the first and last painting,—where is the artist who shall
undertake it?


_May 11._ The farmer keeps pace with his crops and the revolutions of
the seasons, but the merchant with the fluctuations of trade. Observe
how differently they walk in the streets.


VICE AND VIRTUE

_May 16._ Virtue is the very heart and lungs of vice: it cannot stand
up but it lean on virtue.

       *       *       *       *       *

Who has not admired the twelve labors? And yet nobody thinks if Hercules
had sufficient motive for racking his bones to that degree. Men are not
so much virtuous as patrons of virtue, and every one knows that it is
easier to deal with the real possessor of a thing than the temporary
guardian of it.


THE FORM OF STRENGTH

_May 17._ We say justly that the weak person is flat; for, like all flat
substances, he does not stand in the direction of his strength, that is
on his edge, but affords a convenient surface to put upon. He slides
all the way through life. Most things are strong in one direction,—a
straw longitudinally, a board in the direction of its edge, a knee
transversely to its grain,—but the brave man is a perfect sphere, which
cannot fall on its flat side, and is equally strong every way. The
coward is wretchedly spheroidal at best, too much educated or drawn out
on one side commonly and depressed on the other; or he may be likened to
a hollow sphere, whose disposition of matter is best when the greatest
bulk is intended.[55]


SELF-CULTURE

_May 21._ Who knows how incessant a surveillance a strong man may
maintain over himself,—how far subject passion and appetite to reason,
and lead the life his imagination paints? Well has the poet said,—

     "By manly mind Not e'en in sleep is will resigned."

By a strong effort may he not command even his brute body in unconscious
moments?


MY ATTIC

_June 4._ I sit here this fourth of June, looking out on men and nature
from this that I call my perspective window, through which all things
are seen in their true relations. This is my upper empire, bounded by
four walls, viz., three of boards yellow-washed, facing the north,
west, and south, respectively, and the fourth of plaster, likewise
yellow-washed, fronting the sunrise,—to say nothing of the purlieus and
outlying provinces, unexplored as yet but by rats.

       *       *       *       *       *

The words of some men are thrown forcibly against you and adhere like
burs.


RENCOUNTER

_June 22. Saturday._ I have within the last few days come into contact
with a pure, uncompromising spirit, that is somewhere wandering in the
atmosphere, but settles not positively anywhere. Some persons carry
about them the air and conviction of virtue, though they themselves are
unconscious of it, and are even backward to appreciate it in others.
Such it is impossible not to love; still is their loveliness, as it
were, independent of them, so that you seem not to lose it when they are
absent, for when they are near it is like an invisible presence which
attends you.

That virtue we appreciate is as much ours as another's. We see so much
only as we possess.


SYMPATHY[56]

_June 24._

     Lately, alas, I knew a gentle boy,
     Whose features all were cast in Virtue's mould,
     As one she had designed for Beauty's toy,
     But after manned him for her own stronghold.

     On every side he open was as day,
     That you might see no lack of strength within,
     For walls and ports do only serve alway
     For a pretense to feebleness and sin.

     Say not that Cæsar was victorious,
     With toil and strife who stormed the House of Fame;
     In other sense this youth was glorious,
     Himself a kingdom wheresoe'er he came.

     No strength went out to get him victory,
     When all was income of its own accord;
     For where he went none other was to see,
     But all were parcel of their noble lord.

     He forayed like the subtle haze of summer,
     That stilly shows fresh landscapes to our eyes,
     And revolutions works without a murmur,
     Or rustling of a leaf beneath the skies.

     So was I taken unawares by this,
     I quite forgot my homage to confess;
     Yet now am forced to know, though hard it is,
     I might have loved him, had I loved him less.

     Each moment, as we nearer drew to each,
     A stern respect withheld us farther yet,
     So that we seemed beyond each other's reach,
     And less acquainted than when first we met.


     We two were one while we did sympathize,
     So could we not the simplest bargain drive;
     And what avails it now that we are wise,
     If absence doth this doubleness contrive?

     Eternity may not the chance repeat,
     But I must tread my single way alone,
     In sad remembrance that we once did meet,
     And know that bliss irrevocably gone.

     The spheres henceforth my elegy shall sing,
     For elegy has other subject none;
     Each strain of music in my ears shall ring
     Knell of departure from that other one.

     Make haste and celebrate my tragedy;
     With fitting strain resound, ye woods and fields;
     Sorrow is dearer in such case to me
     Than all the joys other occasion yields.

     Is't then too late the damage to repair?
     Distance, forsooth, from my weak grasp hath reft
     The empty husk, and clutched the useless tare,
     But in my hands the wheat and kernel left.

     If I but love that virtue which he is,
     Though it be scented in the morning air,
     Still shall we be truest acquaintances,
     Nor mortals know a sympathy more rare.


THE "BOOK OF GEMS"

_July 4._

     With cunning plates the polished leaves were decked,
     Each one a window to the poet's world,
     So rich a prospect that you might suspect
     In that small space all paradise unfurled.

     It was a right delightful road to go,
     Marching through pastures of such fair herbage,
     O'er hill and dale it led, and to and fro,
     From bard to bard, making an easy stage;

     Where ever and anon I slaked my thirst
     Like a tired traveller at some poet's well,
     Which from the teeming ground did bubbling burst,
     And tinkling thence adown the page it fell.
     Still through the leaves its music you might hear,
     Till other springs fell faintly on the ear.


ANNURSNACK

_July 11._ At length we leave the river and take to the road which leads
to the hilltop, if by any means we may spy out what manner of earth
we inhabit. East, west, north, and south, it is farm and parish, this
world of ours. One may see how at convenient, eternal intervals men
have settled themselves, without thought for the universe. How little
matters it all they have built and delved there in the valley! It is
after all but a feature in the landscape. Still the vast impulse of
nature breathes over all. The eternal winds sweep across the interval
_to-day_, bringing mist and haze to shut out their works. Still the crow
caws from Nawshawtuct to Annursnack, as no feeble tradesman nor smith
may do. And in all swamps the hum of mosquitoes drowns this modern hum
of industry.

  [Illustration: _View from Annursnack Hill_]


EVERY MAN IS A ROMAN FORUM

All things are up and down, east and west, to _me_. In me is the forum
out of which go the Appian and Sacred ways, and a thousand beside, to
the ends of the world. If I forget my centralness, and say a bean winds
with or against the _sun_, and not right or left, it will not be true
south of the equator.


THE ASSABET

_July 18._

     Up this pleasant stream let's row
       For the livelong summer's day,
     Sprinkling foam where'er we go
     In wreaths as white as driven snow.
       Ply the oars! away! away![57]

     Now we glide along the shore,
       Chucking lilies as we go,
     While the yellow-sanded floor
     Doggedly resists the oar,
       Like some turtle dull and slow.

     Now we stem the middle tide,
       Plowing through the deepest soil;
     Ridges pile on either side,
     While we through the furrow glide,
       Reaping bubbles for our toil.

     Dew before and drought behind,
       Onward all doth seem to fly;
     Naught contents the eager mind,
     Only rapids now are kind,
       Forward are the earth and sky.


     Sudden music strikes the ear,
       Leaking out from yonder bank,
     Fit such voyagers to cheer.
     Sure there must be Naiads here,
       Who have kindly played this prank.

     There I know the cunning pack
       Where yon self-sufficient rill
     All its telltale hath kept back,
     Through the meadows held its clack,
       And now bubbleth its fill.

     Silent flows the parent stream,
       And if rocks do lie below
     Smothers with her waves the din,
     As it were a youthful sin,
       Just as still and just as slow.

     But this gleeful little rill,
       Purling round its storied pebble,
     Tinkles to the selfsame tune
     From December until June,
       Nor doth any drought enfeeble.

     See the sun behind the willows,
       Rising through the golden haze,
     How he gleams along the billows,
     Their white crests the easy pillows
       Of his dew-besprinkled rays.

     Forward press we to the dawning,
       For Aurora leads the way,
     Sultry noon and twilight scorning;
     In each dewdrop of the morning
       Lies the promise of a day.

     Rivers from the sun do flow,
       Springing with the dewy morn;
     Voyageurs 'gainst time do row,
     Idle noon nor sunset know,
       Ever even with the dawn.[58]

     Since that first "Away! away!"
       Many a lengthy league we've rowed,
     Still the sparrow on the spray
     Hastes to usher in the day
       With her simple stanza'd ode.[59]


THE BREEZE'S INVITATION

_July 20._

     Come let's roam the breezy pastures,
       Where the freest zephyrs blow,
     Batten on the oak tree's rustle,
     And the pleasant insect bustle,
       Dripping with the streamlet's flow.

     What if I no wings do wear,
       Thro' this solid-seeming air
     I can skim like any swallow;
     Whoso dareth let her follow,
       And we'll be a jovial pair.

     Like two careless swifts let's sail,
       Zephyrus shall think for me;
     Over hill and over dale,
     Riding on the easy gale,
       We will scan the earth and sea.

     Yonder see that willow tree
       Winnowing the buxom air;
     You a gnat and I a bee,
     With our merry minstrelsy
       We will make a concert there.

     One green leaf shall be our screen,
       Till the sun doth go to bed,
     I the king and you the queen
     Of that peaceful little green,
       Without any subject's aid.

     To our music Time will linger,
       And earth open wide her ear,
     Nor shall any need to tarry
     To immortal verse to marry
       Such sweet music as he'll hear.


_July 24._

     Nature doth have her dawn each day,
     But mine are far between;
     Content, I cry, for, sooth to say,
     Mine brightest are, I ween.

     For when my sun doth deign to rise,
     Though it be her noontide,
     Her fairest field in shadow lies,
     Nor can my light abide.


     Sometimes I bask me in her day,
     Conversing with my mate;
     But if we interchange one ray,
     Forthwith her heats abate.

     Through his discourse I climb and see,
     As from some eastern hill,
     A brighter morrow rise to me
     Than lieth in her skill.

     As't were two summer days in one,
     Two Sundays come together,
     Our rays united make one sun,
     With fairest summer weather.[60]


_July 25._ There is no remedy for love but to love more.


_Aug. 31._ Made seven miles, and moored our boat on the west side of a
little rising ground which in the spring forms an island in the river,
the sun going down on one hand, and our eminence contributing its shadow
to the night on the other.[61] In the twilight so elastic is the air
that the sky seems to tinkle [_sic_] over farmhouse and wood. Scrambling
up the bank of our _terra incognita_ we fall on huckleberries, which
have slowly ripened here, husbanding the juices which the months have
distilled, for our peculiar use this night.[62] If they had been rank
poison, the entire simplicity and confidence with which we plucked them
would have insured their wholesomeness. The devout attitude of the hour
asked a blessing on that repast. It was fit for the setting sun to rest
on.

       *       *       *       *       *

From our tent here on the hillside, through that isosceles door, I see
our lonely mast on the shore, it may be as an eternity fixture, to be
seen in landscapes henceforth, or as the most temporary standstill of
time, the boat just come to anchor, and the mast still rocking to find
its balance.[63]

       *       *       *       *       *

No human life is in night,—the woods, the boat, the shore,—yet is it
lifelike.[64] The warm pulse of a young life beats steadily underneath
all. This slight wind is where one artery approaches the surface and is
skin deep.

       *       *       *       *       *

While I write here, I hear the foxes trotting about me over the dead
leaves, and now gently over the grass, as if not to disturb the dew
which is falling. Why should we not cultivate neighborly relations with
the foxes? As if to improve upon our seeming advances, comes one to
greet us nosewise under our tent-curtain. Nor do we rudely repulse him.
Is man powder and the fox flint and steel? Has not the time come when
men and foxes shall lie down together?

       *       *       *       *       *

Hist! there, the musquash by the boat is taking toll of potatoes and
melons. Is not this the age of a community of goods? His presumption
kindles in me a brotherly feeling. Nevertheless. I get up to
reconnoitre, and tread stealthily along the shore to make acquaintance
with him. But on the riverside I can see only the stars reflected in the
water, and now, by some ripple ruffling the disk of a star, I discover
him.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the silence of the night the sound of a distant alarm bell is borne
to these woods. Even now men have fires and extinguish them, and, with
distant horizon blazings and barking of dogs, enact the manifold drama
of life.[65]

       *       *       *       *       *

We begin to have an interest in sun, moon, and stars. What time
riseth Orion? Which side the pole gropeth the bear? East, West,
North, and South,—where are they? What clock shall tell the hours for
us?—Billerica, midnight.


_Sept. 1. Sunday._ Under an oak on the bank of the canal in Chelmsford.

From Ball's Hill to Billerica meeting-house the river is a noble stream
of water, flowing between gentle hills and occasional cliffs, and well
wooded all the way. It can hardly be said to flow at all, but rests
in the lap of the hills like a quiet lake. The boatmen call it a dead
stream. For many long reaches you can see nothing to indicate that men
inhabit its banks.[66] Nature seems to hold a sabbath herself to-day,—a
still warm sun on river and wood, and not breeze enough to ruffle the
water. Cattle stand up to their bellies in the river, and you think
Rembrandt should be here.

Camped under some oaks in Tyngsboro, on the east bank of the Merrimack,
just below the ferry.[67]


_Sept. 2._ Camped in Merrimack, on the west bank, by a deep ravine.[68]


_Sept. 3._ In Bedford, on the west bank, opposite a large rock, above
Coos Falls.[69]


_Sept. 4. Wednesday._ Hooksett, east bank, two or three miles below the
village, opposite Mr. Mitchel's.[70]


_Sept. 5._ Walked to Concord [N. H.], 10 miles.[71]


_Sept. 6._ By stage to Plymouth, 40 miles, and on foot to Tilton's inn,
Thornton. The scenery commences on Sanbornton Square, whence the White
Mountains are first visible. In Campton it is decidedly mountainous.


_Sept. 7._ Walked from Thornton through Peeling[72] and Lincoln to
Franconia. In Lincoln visited Stone Flume and Basin, and in Franconia
the Notch, and saw the Old Man of the Mountain.


_Sept. 8._ Walked from Franconia to Thomas J. Crawford's.


_Sept. 9._ At Crawford's.


_Sept. 10._ Ascended the mountain and rode to Conway.


_Sept. 11._ Rode to Concord.


_Sept. 12._ Rode to Hooksett and rowed to Bedford, N. H., or rather to
the northern part of Merrimack, near the ferry, by a large island, near
which we camped.[73]


_Sept 13._ Rowed and sailed to Concord, about 50 miles.[74]


THE WISE REST

_Sept 17._ Nature never makes haste; her systems revolve at an even
pace. The bud swells imperceptibly, without hurry or confusion, as
though the short spring days were an eternity.[75] All her operations
seem separately, for the time, the single object for which all things
tarry. Why, then, should man hasten as if anything less than eternity
were allotted for the least deed? Let him consume never so many æons,
so that he go about the meanest task well, though it be but the paring
of his nails.[76] If the setting sun seems to hurry him to improve the
day while it lasts, the chant of the crickets fails not to reassure him,
even-measured as of old, teaching him to take his own time henceforth
forever. The wise man is restful, never restless or impatient. He each
moment abides there where he is, as some walkers actually rest the whole
body at each step, while others never relax the muscles of the leg till
the accumulated fatigue obliges them to stop short.

As the wise is not anxious that time wait for him, neither does he wait
for it.


_Oct 22._ Nature will bear the closest inspection. She invites us to
lay our eye level with her smallest leaf, and take an insect view of
its plain.[77]


ÆSCHYLUS

_Nov. 5._ There was one man lived his own healthy Attic life in those
days. The words that have come down to us evidence that their speaker
was a seer in his day and generation. At this day they owe nothing to
their dramatic form, nothing to stage machinery, and the fact that they
were spoken under these or those circumstances. All display of art for
the gratification of a factitious taste is silently passed by to come
at the least particle of absolute and genuine thought they contain. The
reader will be disappointed, however, who looks for traits of a rare
wisdom or eloquence, and will have to solace himself, for the most part,
with the poet's humanity and what it was in him to say. He will discover
that, like every genius, he was a solitary liver and worker in his day.

We are accustomed to say that the common sense of this age belonged to
the seer of the last,—as if time gave him any vantage ground. But not
so: I see not but Genius must ever take an equal start, and all the
generations of men are virtually at a standstill for it to come and
consider of them. Common sense is not so familiar with any truth but
Genius will represent it in a strange light to it. Let the seer bring
down his broad eye to the most stale and trivial fact, and he will make
you believe it a new planet in the sky.

As to criticism, man has never to make allowance to man; there is naught
to excuse, naught to bear in mind.

All the past is here present to be tried; let it approve itself if it
can.


GROWTH

We are not apt to remember that we grow. It is curious to reflect how
the maiden waiteth patiently, confiding as the unripe houstonia of the
meadow, for the slow moving years to work their will with her,—perfect
and ripen her,—like it to be fanned by the wind, watered by the rain,
and receive her education at the hands of nature.

These young buds of manhood in the streets are like buttercups in the
meadows,—surrendered to nature as they.


_Nov. 7._ I was not aware till to-day of a rising and risen generation.
Children appear to me as raw as the fresh fungi on a fence rail. By
what degrees of consanguinity is this succulent and rank-growing slip
of manhood related to me? What is it but another herb, ranging all the
kingdoms of nature, drawing in sustenance by a thousand roots and fibres
from all soils.


LACONICISM

_Nov. 8._ Prometheus' answer to Io's question, who has bound him to the
rock, is a good instance:—

     Βούλουμα μὲν τὸ δῖον, Ἡφαίστου δὲ χείρ.

     (The will indeed of Zeus, of Vulcan the hand.)

Also:—

     Πταίσας δὲ τῷδε πρὸς κακῷ, μαθήσεται,
     Ὅσον τό, τ᾽ ἄρχειν καὶ τὸ δουλούειν δίχα.

Such naked speech is the standing aside of words to make room for
thoughts.


REGRET

_Nov. 13._ Make the most of your regrets; never smother your sorrow,
but tend and cherish it till it come to have a separate and integral
interest. To regret deeply is to live afresh. By so doing you will be
astonished to find yourself restored once more to all your emoluments.


DESPONDENCY

_Nov. 14._ There is nowhere any apology for despondency. Always there is
life which, rightly lived, implies a divine satisfaction. I am soothed
by the rain-drops on the door-sill; every globule that pitches thus
confidently from the eaves to the ground is my life insurance. Disease
and a rain-drop cannot coexist. The east wind is not itself consumptive,
but has enjoyed a rare health from of old. If a fork or brand stand
erect, good is portended by it. They are the warrant of universal
innocence.


FAREWELL

_Nov. 19._

     Light-hearted, thoughtless, shall I take my way,
     When I to thee this being have resigned,
     Well knowing where, upon a future day,
     With us'rer's craft more than myself to find.


LINNÆUS

_Nov. 22._ Linnæus, setting out for Lapland, surveys his "comb" and
"spare shirt," "leather breeches," and "gauze cap to keep off gnats,"
with as much complacency as Buonaparte would a park of artillery to be
used in the Russian Campaign. His eye is to take in fish, flower, and
bird, quadruped and biped. The quiet bravery of the man is admirable.
These facts have even a _novel_ interest.[78]


_Nov. 29._ Many brave men have there been, thank Fortune, but I shall
never grow brave by comparison. When I remember myself I shall forget
them.


BRAVERY

_Dec. 2._ A rare landscape immediately suggests a suitable inhabitant,
whose breath shall be its wind, whose moods its seasons, and to whom
it will always be fair. To be chafed and worried, and not as serene as
Nature, does not become one whose nature is as steadfast as she. We do
all stand in the front ranks of the battle every moment of our lives;
where there is a brave man there is the thickest of the fight, there
the post of honor. Not he who procures a substitute to go to Florida is
exempt from service; he gathers his laurels in another field. Waterloo
is not the only battle-ground: as many and fatal guns are pointed at my
breast now as are contained in the English arsenals.


NOON

[_Undated._][79]

                               Straightway dissolved,
     Like to the morning mists—or rather like the subtler mists of noon—
     Stretched I far up the neighboring mountain's sides,
     Adown the valleys, through the nether air,
     Bathing, with fond expansiveness of soul,
     The tiniest blade as the sublimest cloud.

     What time the bittern, solitary bird,
     Hides now her head amid the whispering fern,
     And not a paddock vexes all the shore,
     Nor feather ruffles the incumbent air,
     Save where the wagtail interrupts the noon.


FROM A CHAPTER ON BRAVERY.—_Script_

_Dec._ Bravery deals not so much in resolute action, as in healthy
and assured rest. Its palmy state is a staying at home, and compelling
alliance in all directions.[80]

The brave man never heareth the din of war; he is trustful and
unsuspecting, so observant of the least trait of good or beautiful that,
if you turn toward him the dark side of anything, he will still see only
the bright.

       *       *       *       *       *

One moment of serene and confident life is more glorious than a whole
campaign of daring. We should be ready for all issues, not daring to
die but daring to live. To the brave even danger is an ally.

       *       *       *       *       *

In their unconscious daily life all are braver than they know. Man
slumbers and wakes in his twilight with the confidence of noonday; he is
not palsied nor struck dumb by the inexplicable riddle of the universe.
A mere surveyor's report or clause in a preëmption bill contains matter
of quite extraneous interest, of a subdued but confident tone, evincing
such a steadiness in the writer as would have done wonders at Bunker's
Hill or Marathon. Where there is the collected eye, there will not fail
the effective hand; χεὶρ δ᾽ ὁρᾷ τὸ δράσιμον.

       *       *       *       *       *

Science is always brave, for to know is to know good; doubt and danger
quail before her eye. What the coward overlooks in his hurry, she calmly
scrutinizes, breaking ground like a pioneer for the array of arts in
her train. Cowardice is unscientific, for there cannot be a science
of ignorance. There may be a science of war, for that advances, but
a retreat is rarely well conducted; if it is, then is it an orderly
advance in the face of circumstances.[81]

       *       *       *       *       *

If his fortune deserts him, the brave man in pity still abides by her.
Samuel Johnson and his friend Savage, compelled by poverty to pass the
night in the streets, resolve that they will stand by their country.

       *       *       *       *       *

The state of complete manhood is virtue, and virtue and bravery are
one. This truth has long been in the languages. All the relations of
the subject are hinted at in the derivation and analogies of the Latin
words _vir_ and _virtus_, and the Greek ἀγαθός and ἄριστος. Language
in its settled form is the record of men's second thoughts, a more
faithful utterance than they can momentarily give. What men say is so
sifted and obliged to approve itself as answering to a common want,
that nothing absolutely frivolous obtains currency in the language. The
analogies of words are never whimsical and meaningless, but stand for
real likenesses. Only the ethics of mankind, and not of any particular
man, give point and vigor to our speech.

       *       *       *       *       *

The coward was born one day too late, for he has never overtaken the
present hour. He is the younger son of creation, who now waiteth till
the elder decease.[82] He does not dwell on the earth as though he had
a deed of the land in his pocket,—not as another lump of nature, as
imperturbable an occupant as the stones in the field. He has only rented
a few acres of time and space, and thinks that every accident portends
the expiration of his lease. He is a non-proprietor, a serf, in his
moral economy nomadic, having no fixed abode. When danger appears, he
goes abroad and clings to straws.

       *       *       *       *       *

Bravery and Cowardice are kindred correlatives with Knowledge and
Ignorance, Light and Darkness, Good and Evil.

       *       *       *       *       *

If you let a single ray of light through the shutter, it will go on
diffusing itself without limit till it enlighten the world, but the
shadow that was never so wide at first as rapidly contracts till it
comes to naught. The shadow of the moon when it passes nearest the sun
is lost in space ere it can reach our earth to eclipse it. Always the
_system_ shines with uninterrupted light, for, as the sun is so much
larger than any planet, no shadow can travel far into space. We may
bask always in the light of the system, always may step back out of
the shade. No man's shadow is as large as his body, if the rays make a
right angle with the reflecting surface. Let our lives be passed under
the equator, with the sun in the meridian.

There is no ill which may not be dissipated like the dark, if you let
in a stronger light upon it. Overcome evil with good. Practice no such
narrow economy as they whose bravery amounts to no more light than a
farthing candle, before which most objects cast a shadow wider than
themselves.[83]

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a conceit of Plutarch, accounting for the preferences given
to signs observed on the left hand, that men may have thought "things
terrestrial and mortal directly over against heavenly and divine things,
and do conjecture that the things which to us are on the left hand,
the gods send down from their right hand."[84] If we are not blind, we
shall see how a right hand is stretched over all, as well the unlucky
as lucky, and that the ordering soul is only right-handed, distributing
with one palm all our fates.[85]

       *       *       *       *       *

Men have made war from a deeper instinct than peace. War is but the
compelling of peace.[86]

When the world is declared under martial law, every Esau retakes his
birthright, and what there is in him does not fail to appear. He wipes
off all old scores and commences a new account. The world is interested
to know how any soul will demean itself in so novel a position. But when
war too, like commerce and husbandry, gets to be a routine, and men go
about it as indented apprentices, the hero degenerates into a marine,
and the standing army into a standing jest.

       *       *       *       *       *

No pains are spared to do honor to the brave soldier. All guilds and
corporations are taxed to provide him with fit harness and equipment.
His coat must be red as the sunset, or blue as the heavens. Gold
or silver, pinchbeck or copper, solid or superficial, mark him for
fortune's favorite. The skill of a city enchases and tempers his
sword-blade; the Tyrian dye confounds him with emperors and kings.
Wherever he goes, music precedes and prepares the way for him. His life
is a holiday, and the contagion of his example unhinges the universe.
The world puts by work and comes out to stare. He is the one only man.
He recognizes no time-honored casts and conventions, no fixtures but
transfixtures, no governments at length settled on a permanent basis.
One tap of the drum sets the political and moral harmonies all ajar.
His ethics may well bear comparison with the priest's. He may rally,
charge, retreat in an orderly manner, but never flee nor flinch.[87]

     Each more melodious note I hear
     Brings sad reproach to me,
     That I alone afford the ear,
     Who would the music be.[88]

The brave man is the sole patron of music;[89] he recognizes it for his
mother-tongue,—a more mellifluous and articulate language than words,
in comparison with which speech is recent and temporary. It is his
voice. His language must have the same majestic movement and cadence
that philosophy assigns to the heavenly bodies. The steady flux of his
thought constitutes time in music. The universe falls in and keeps pace
with it, which before proceeded singly and discordant. Hence are poetry
and song. When Bravery first grew afraid and went to war, it took music
along with it. The soul delighted still to hear the echo of its own
voice. Especially the soldier insists on agreement and harmony always.
Indeed, it is that friendship there is in war that makes it chivalrous
and heroic. It was the dim sentiment of a noble friendship for the
purest soul the world has seen, that gave to Europe a crusading era.[90]

       *       *       *       *       *

The day of tilts and tournaments has gone by, but no herald summons us
to the tournament of love.

       *       *       *       *       *

The brave warrior must have harmony if not melody at any sacrifice.
Consider what shifts he makes. There are the bagpipe, the gong, the
trumpet, the drum,—either the primitive central African or Indian, or
the brass European. Ever since Jericho fell down before a blast of rams'
horns, the martial and musical have gone hand in hand. If the soldier
marches to the sack of a town, he must be preceded by drum and trumpet,
which shall as it were identify his cause with the accordant universe.
All woods and walls echo back his own spirit, and the hostile territory
is then preoccupied for him. He is no longer insulated, but infinitely
related and familiar. The roll-call musters for him all the forces of
nature.[91]

       *       *       *       *       *

All sounds, and more than all, silence, do fife and drum for us.[92] The
least creaking doth whet all our senses and emit a tremulous light, like
the aurora borealis, over things. As polishing expresses the vein in
marble and the grain in wood, so music brings out what of heroic lurks
anywhere.[93]

       *       *       *       *       *

To the sensitive soul, the universe has its own fixed measure, which is
its measure also, and, as a regular pulse is inseparable from a healthy
body, so is its healthiness dependent on the regularity of its rhythm.
In all sounds the soul recognizes its own rhythm, and seeks to express
its sympathy by a correspondent movement of the limbs. When the body
marches to the measure of the soul, then is true courage and invincible
strength.[94]

       *       *       *       *       *

The coward would reduce this thrilling sphere music to a universal
wail, this melodious chant to a nasal cant. He thinks to conciliate all
hostile influences by compelling his neighborhood into a partial concord
with himself, but his music is no better than a jingle which is akin to
a jar,—jars regularly recurring.[95]

He blows a feeble blast of slender melody, because nature can have no
more sympathy with such a soul than it has of cheerful melody in itself.
Hence hears he no accordant note in the universe, and is a coward, or
consciously outcast and deserted man. But the brave man, without drum or
trumpet, compels concord everywhere by the universality and tunefulness
of his soul.[96]

"Take a metallic plate," says Coleridge, "and strew sand on it; sound
a harmonic chord over the sand, and the grains will whirl about in
circles, and other geometrical figures, all, as it were, depending on
some point relatively at rest. Sound a discord, and every grain will
whisk about without any order at all, in no figures, and with no points
of rest." The brave man is such a point of relative rest, over which
the soul sounds ever a harmonic chord.

       *       *       *       *       *

Music is either a sedative or a tonic to the soul.[97] I read that
"Plato thinks the gods never gave men music, the science of melody
and harmony, for mere delectation or to tickle the ear; but that the
discordant parts of the circulations and beauteous fabric of the soul,
and that of it that roves about the body, and many times, for want of
tune and air, breaks forth into many extravagances and excesses, might
be sweetly recalled and artfully wound up to their former consent and
agreement."[98]

       *       *       *       *       *

By dint of wind and stringed instruments the coward endeavors to put
the best face on the matter,—whistles to keep his courage up.

       *       *       *       *       *

There are some brave traits related by Plutarch; e. g.: "Homer acquaints
us how Ajax, being to engage in a single combat with Hector, bade
the Grecians pray to the gods for him; and while they were at their
devotions, he was putting on his armor."

On another occasion, a storm arises, "which as soon as the pilot sees,
he falls to his prayers, and invokes his tutelar dæmons, but neglects
not in the meantime to hold to the rudder and let down the main yard."

"Homer directs his husbandman, before he either plow or sow, to pray
to the terrestrial Jove and the venerable Ceres, but with his hand upon
the plow-tail."

Ἀρχὴ γὰρ ὄντως τοῦ νικᾷν τὸ θαῤῥεῖν. (Verily, to be brave is the
beginning of victory.)

       *       *       *       *       *

The Romans "made Fortune surname to Fortitude," for fortitude is that
alchemy that turns all things to good fortune. The man of fortitude,
whom the Latins called fortis, is no other than that lucky person
whom _fors_ favors, or _vir summae fortis_. If we will, every bark may
"carry Cæsar and Cæsar's fortune." The brave man stays at home. For an
impenetrable shield, stand inside yourself; he was an arrant coward who
first made shields of brass. For armor of proof, mea virtute me involvo
(I wrap myself in my virtue);

     "Tumble me down, and I will sit
     Upon my ruins, smiling yet."[99]

       *       *       *       *       *

The bravest deed, which for the most part is left quite out of history,
which alone wants the staleness of a deed done and the uncertainty
of a deed doing, is the life of a great man. To perform exploits is
to be temporarily bold, as becomes a courage that ebbs and flows, the
soul quite vanquished by its own deed subsiding into indifference and
cowardice; but the exploit of a brave life consists in its momentary
completeness.[100]


FRIENDSHIP [101]

_Fall of_ 1839. Then first I conceive of a true friendship, when some
rare specimen of manhood presents itself. It seems the mission of such
to commend virtue to mankind, not by any imperfect preaching of her
word, but by their own carriage and conduct. We may then worship moral
beauty without the formality of a religion.

They are some fresher wind that blows, some new fragrance that breathes.
They make the landscape and the sky for us.

       *       *       *       *       *

The rules of other intercourse are all inapplicable to this.

       *       *       *       *       *

We are one virtue, one truth, one beauty. All nature is our satellite,
whose light is dull and reflected. She is subaltern to us,—an episode to
our poem; but we are primary, and radiate light and heat to the system.

       *       *       *       *       *

I am only introduced once again to myself.

       *       *       *       *       *

Conversation, contact, familiarity are the steps to it and instruments
of it, but it is most perfect when these are done, and distance and time
oppose no barrier.

       *       *       *       *       *

I need not ask any man to be my friend, more than the sun the earth
to be attracted by him. It is not his to give, nor mine to receive. I
cannot pardon my enemy; let him pardon himself.

       *       *       *       *       *

Commonly we degrade Love and Friendship by presenting them under the
aspect of a trivial dualism.

       *       *       *       *       *

What matter a few words more or less with my friend,—with all
mankind;—they will still be my friends in spite of themselves. Let them
stand aloof if they can! As though the most formidable distance could
rob me of any real sympathy or advantage! No, when such interests are
at stake, time, and distance, and difference fall into their own places.

       *       *       *       *       *

But alas! to be actually separated from that parcel of heaven we call
our friend, with the suspicion that we shall no more meet in nature, is
source enough for all the elegies that ever were written. But the true
remedy will be to recover our friend again piecemeal, wherever we can
find a feature, as Æetes gathered up the members of his son, which Medea
had strewn in her path.

       *       *       *       *       *

The more complete our sympathy, the more our senses are struck dumb,
and we are repressed by a delicate respect, so that to indifferent eyes
we are least his friend, because no vulgar symbols pass between us. On
after thought, perhaps, we come to fear that we have been the losers by
such seeming indifference, but in truth that which withholds us is the
bond between us.

       *       *       *       *       *

My friend will be as much better than myself as my aspiration is above
my performance.

       *       *       *       *       *

This is most serene autumn weather. The chirp of crickets may be
heard at noon over all the land. As in summer they are heard only at
nightfall, so now by their incessant chirp they usher in the evening of
the year.[102] The lively decay of autumn promises as infinite duration
and freshness as the green leaves of spring.




IV

1840

(ÆT. 22-23)


THE FISHER'S SON[103]

_Jan. 10._

     I know the world where land and water meet,
     By yonder hill abutting on the main;
     One while I hear the waves incessant beat,
     Then, turning round, survey the land again.

     Within a humble cot that looks to sea,
     Daily I breathe this curious warm life;
     Beneath a friendly haven's sheltering lee
     My noiseless day with myst'ry still is rife.

     'Tis here, they say, my simple life began;
     And easy credit to the tale I lend,
     For well I know 'tis here I am a man.
     But who will simply tell me of the end?

     These eyes, fresh opened, spied the far-off Sea,
     Which like a silent godfather did stand,
     Nor uttered one explaining word to me,
     But introduced straight Godmother Land.

     And yonder still stretches that silent main,
     With many glancing ships besprinkled o'er;
     And earnest still I gaze and gaze again
     Upon the selfsame waves and friendly shore,

     Till like a watery humor on the eye
     It still appears whichever way I turn,
     Its silent waste and mute o'erarching sky
     With close-shut eyes I clearly still discern.

     And yet with lingering doubt I haste each morn
     To see if ocean still my gaze will greet,
     And with each day once more to life am born,
     And tread once more the earth with infant feet.

       *       *       *       *       *

     My years are like a stroll upon the beach,
     As near the ocean's edge as I can go;
     My tardy steps its waves do oft o'erreach,
     Sometimes I stay to let them overflow.

     Infinite work my hands find there to do,
     Gathering the relics which the waves upcast;
     Each storm doth scour the deep for something new,
     And every time the strangest is the last.

     My sole employment 'tis, and scrupulous care,
     To place my gains beyond the reach of tides,
     Each smoother pebble, and each shell more rare,
     Which ocean kindly to my hand confides.

     I have no fellow-laborer on the shore;
     They scorn the strand who sail upon the sea;
     Sometimes I think the ocean they've sailed o'er
     Is deeper known upon the strand to me.


     The middle sea can show no crimson dulse,
     Its deeper waves cast up no pearls to view,
     Along the shore my hand is on its pulse,
     Whose feeble beat is elsewhere felt by few.

     My neighbors come sometimes with lumb'ring carts.
     As it would seem my pleasant toil to share,
     But straightway take their loads to distant marts,
     For only weeds and ballast are their care.

       *       *       *       *       *

     'Tis by some strange coincidence, if I
     Make common cause with ocean when he storms,
     Who can so well support a separate sky,
     And people it with multitude of forms.

     Oft in the stillness of the night I hear
     Some restless bird presage the coming din,
     And distant murmurs faintly strike my ear
     From some bold bluff projecting far within.

     My stillest depths straightway do inly heave
     More genially than rests the summer's calm;
     The howling winds through my soul's cordage grieve,
     Till every shelf and ledge gives the alarm.

     Far from the shore the swelling billows rise,
     And gathering strength come rolling to the land,
     And, as each wave retires, and murmur dies,
     I straight pursue upon the streaming sand,

     Till the returning surge with gathered strength
     Compels once more the backward way to take,
     And, creeping up the beach a cable's length,
     In many a thirsty hollow leaves a lake.

     Oft as some ruling star my tide has swelled
     The sea can scarcely brag more wrecks than I;
     Ere other influence my waves has quelled,
     The stanchest bark that floats is high and dry.


_Jan. 19._

     By a strong liking we prevail
     Against the stoutest fort;
     At length the fiercest heart will quail,
     And our alliance court.


FRIENDS

_Jan. 26._ They are like air bubbles on water, hastening to flow
together.

History tells of Orestes and Pylades, Damon and Pythias, but why should
not we put to shame those old reserved worthies by a community of such?

       *       *       *       *       *

Constantly, as it were through a remote skylight, I have glimpses of
a serene friendship-land, and know the better why brooks murmur and
violets grow.

This conjunction of souls, like waves which meet and break, subsides
also backward over things, and gives all a fresh aspect.

       *       *       *       *       *

I would live henceforth with some gentle soul such a life as may be
conceived, double for variety, single for harmony,—two, only that we
might admire at our oneness,—one, because indivisible. Such community to
be a pledge of holy living. How could aught unworthy be admitted into
our society? To listen with one ear to each summer sound, to behold
with one eye each summer scene, our visual rays so to meet and mingle
with the object as to be one bent and doubled; with two tongues to be
wearied, and thought to spring ceaselessly from a double fountain.


POETRY

_Jan._ No definition of poetry is adequate unless it be poetry itself.
The most accurate analysis by the rarest wisdom is yet insufficient,
and the poet will instantly prove it false by setting aside its
requisitions.[104] It is indeed all that we do not know.

The poet does not need to see how meadows are something else than earth,
grass, and water, but how they are thus much. He does not need discover
that potato blows are as beautiful as violets, as the farmer thinks,
but only how good potato blows are.

The poem is drawn out from under the feet of the poet, his whole weight
has rested on this ground.

It has a logic more severe than the logician's.

You might as well think to go in pursuit of the rainbow, and embrace it
on the next hill, as to embrace the whole of poetry even in thought. The
best book is only an advertisement of it, such as is sometimes sewed in
with its cover.[105]

       *       *       *       *       *

Its eccentric and unexplored orbit embraces the system.


_Jan. 27._ What a tame life we are living! How little heroic it is!
Let us devise never so perfect a system of living, and straightway the
soul leaves it to shuffle along its own way alone. It is easy enough
to establish a durable and harmonious routine; immediately all parts of
nature consent to it.[106] The sun-dial still points to the noon mark,
and the sun rises and sets for it. The neighbors are never fatally
obstinate when such a scheme is to be instituted; but forthwith all
lend a hand, and ring the bell, and bring fuel and lights, and put
by work and don their best garments, with an earnest conformity which
matches the operations of nature. There is always a present and extant
life which all combine to uphold, though its insufficiency is manifest
enough.[107] Still the sing-song goes on.


_Jan. 29._ A friend in history looks like some premature soul. The
nearest approach to a community of love in these days is like the
distant breaking of waves on the seashore. An ocean there must be, for
it washes our beach.

This alone do all men sail for, trade for, plow for, preach for, fight
for.


ÆSCHYLUS

The Greeks, as the Southerns generally, expressed themselves with more
facility than we in distinct and lively images, and as to the grace and
completeness with which they treated the subjects suited to their genius
they must be allowed to retain their ancient supremacy. But a rugged
and uncouth array of thought, though never so modern, may rout them at
any moment. It remains for other than Greeks to write the literature of
the next century.

Æschylus had a clear eye for the commonest things. His genius was only
an enlarged common sense. He adverts with chaste severity to all natural
facts. His sublimity is Greek sincerity and simpleness, naked wonder
which mythology had not helped to explain.

Tydeus' shield had for device

     "An artificial heaven blazing with stars;
     A bright full moon in the midst of the shield,
     Eldest of stars, eye of night, is prominent."

       *       *       *       *       *

The Greeks were stern but simple children in their literature. We have
gained nothing by the few ages which we have the start of them. This
universal wondering at those old men is as if a matured grown person
should discover that the aspirations of his youth argued a diviner life
than the contented wisdom of his manhood.

       *       *       *       *       *

He is competent to express any of the common manly feelings. If his
hero is to make a boast, it does not lack fullness, it is as boastful
as could be desired; he has a flexible mouth, and can fill it readily
with strong, round words, so that you will say the man's speech wants
nothing, he has left nothing unsaid, but he has actually wiped his lips
of it.

Whatever the common eye sees at all and expresses as best it may, he
sees uncommonly and describes with rare completeness. The multitude that
thronged the theatre could no doubt go along with him to the end. The
Greeks had no transcendent geniuses like Milton and Shakespeare, whose
merit only posterity could fully appreciate.

       *       *       *       *       *

The social condition of genius is the same in all ages. Æschylus was
undoubtedly alone and without sympathy in his simple reverence for the
mystery of the universe.


_Feb. 10._ CRITICISM ON AULUS PERSIUS FLACCUS[108]


_Feb. 11._ "Truth," says Lord Bacon, "may perhaps come to the price of
a pearl, that sheweth best by day; but it will not rise to the price
of a diamond or carbuncle, which sheweth best in varied lights." Like
the pearl, truth shines with a steady but pale light which invites
to introspection; it is intrinsically bright, not accidentally as the
diamond. We seem to behold its rear always, as though it were not coming
toward us but retiring from us. Its light is not reflected this way, but
we see the sombre and wrong side of its rays. As the dust in his beams
makes known that the sun shines.

Falsehoods that glare and dazzle are sloped toward us, reflecting full
in our faces even the light of the sun. Wait till sunset, or go round
them, and the falsity will be apparent.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is never enough that our life is an easy one. We must live on the
stretch; not be satisfied with a tame and undisturbed round of weeks
and days, but retire to our rest like soldiers on the eve of a battle,
looking forward with ardor to the strenuous sortie of the morrow.[109]
"Sit not down in the popular seats and common level of virtues, but
endeavor to make them heroical. Offer not only peace offerings but
holocausts unto God." To the brave soldier the rust and leisure of
peace are harder than the fatigues of war. As our bodies court physical
encounters, and languish in the mild and even climate of the tropics,
so our souls thrive best on unrest and discontent.[110]

He enjoys true leisure who has time to improve his soul's estate.


_Feb. 12._ Opposition is often so strong a likeness as to remind us of
the difference.

       *       *       *       *       *

Truth has properly no opponent, for nothing gets so far up on the other
side as to be opposite. She looks broadcast over the field and sees no
opponent.

The ring-leader of the mob will soonest be admitted into the councils
of state.

       *       *       *       *       *

Knavery is more foolish than folly, for that, half knowing its own
foolishness, it still persists. The knave has reduced folly to a system,
is the prudent, common-sense fool. The witling has the simplicity and
directness of genius, is the inspired fool. His incomprehensible ravings
become the creed of the dishonest of a succeeding era.


_Feb. 13._ An act of integrity is to an act of duty what the French verb
_être_ is to _devoir_. Duty is _ce que devrait être_.

Duty belongs to the understanding, but genius is not dutiful, the
highest talent is dutiful. Goodness results from the wisest use of
talent.

The perfect man has both genius and talent. The one is his head, the
other his foot; by one he is, by the other he lives.

The unconsciousness of man is the consciousness of God, the end of the
world.[111]

The very thrills of genius are disorganizing. The body is never quite
acclimated to _its_ atmosphere, but how often succumbs and goes into a
decline!


_Feb. 14._ Beauty lives by rhymes. Double a deformity is a beauty. Draw
this blunt quill over the paper, and fold it once transversely to the
line, pressing it suddenly before the ink dries, and a delicately shaded
and regular figure is the result, which art cannot surpass.[112]

       *       *       *       *       *

A very meagre natural history suffices to make me a child. Only their
names and genealogy make me love fishes. I would know even the number of
their fin-rays, and how many scales compose the lateral line. I fancy I
am amphibious and swim in all the brooks and pools in the neighborhood,
with the perch and bream, or doze under the pads of our river amid the
winding aisles and corridors formed by their stems, with the stately
pickerel. I am the wiser in respect to all knowledges, and the better
qualified for all fortunes, for knowing that there is a minnow in the
brook. Methinks I have need even of his sympathy, and to be his fellow
in a degree. I do like him sometimes when he balances himself for an
hour over the yellow floor of his basin.[113]


_Feb. 15._ The good seem to inhale a more generous atmosphere and be
bathed in a more precious light than other men. Accordingly Virgil
describes the _sedes beatas_ thus:—

     "Largior hic campos aether et lumine vestit
     Purpureo: Solemque suum, sua sidera nôrunt."[114]


_Feb. 16._ Divination is prospective memory.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is a kindred principle at the bottom of all affinities. The
magnet cultivates a steady friendship with the pole, all bodies with all
others. The friendliness of nature is that goddess Ceres who presides
over every sowing and harvest, and we bless the same in sun and rain.
The seed in the ground tarries for a season with its genial friends
there; all the earths and grasses and minerals are its hosts, who
entertain it hospitably, and plenteous crops and teeming wagons are the
result.


_Feb. 18._ All romance is grounded on friendship. What is this rural,
this pastoral, this poetical life but its invention? Does not the moon
shine for Endymion? Smooth pastures and mild airs are for some Corydon
and Phyllis. Paradise belongs to Adam and Eve. Plato's republic is
governed by Platonic love.


_Feb. 20._ The coward's hope is suspicion, the hero's doubt a sort of
hope. The gods neither hope nor doubt.


_Feb. 22._ The river is unusually high, owing to the melting of the
snow. Men go in boats over their gardens and potato-fields, and all the
children of the village are on tiptoe to see whose fence will be carried
away next. Great numbers of muskrats, which have been driven out of
their holes by the water, are killed by the sportsmen.

They are to us instead of the beaver. The wind from over the meadows is
laden with a strong scent of musk, and by its racy freshness advertises
us of an unexplored wildness. Those backwoods are not far off. I am
affected by the sight of their cabins of mud and grass, raised four
or five feet, along the river, as when I read of the Pyramids, or the
barrows of Asia.[115]

People step brisker in the street for this unusual movement of the
waters. You seem to hear the roar of a waterfall and the din of
factories where the river breaks over the road.

Who would have thought that a few feet might not have been spared
from the trunks of most trees? Such as grow in the meadows, and are
now surrounded by that depth of water, have a dwarfish appearance. No
matter whether they are longer or shorter, they are now equally out of
proportion.


THE FRESHET

_Feb. 24._

     A stir is on the Worcester hills,
     And Nobscot too the valley fills;
     Where scarce you'd fill an acorn cup
     In summer when the sun was up,
     No more you'll find a cup at all,
     But in its place a waterfall.

     O that the moon were in conjunction
     To the dry land's extremest unction,
     Till every dike and pier were flooded,
     And all the land with islands studded,
     For once to teach all human kind,
     Both those that plow and those that grind,
     There is no fixture in the land,
     But all unstable is as sand.

     The river swelleth more and more,
     Like some sweet influence stealing o'er
     The passive town; and for a while
     Each tussock makes a tiny isle,
     Where, on some friendly Ararat,
     Resteth the weary water-rat.

     No ripple shows Musketaquid,
     Her very current e'en is hid,
     As deepest souls do calmest rest
     When thoughts are swelling in the breast;
     And she, that in the summer's drought
     Doth make a rippling and a rout,
     Sleeps from Nawshawtuct to the Cliff,
     Unruffled by a single skiff;
     So like a deep and placid mind
     Whose currents underneath it wind,
     For by a thousand distant hills
     The louder roar a thousand rills,
     And many a spring which now is dumb,
     And many a stream with smothered hum,
     Doth faster well and swifter glide,
     Though buried deep beneath the tide.

     Our village shows a rural Venice,
     Its broad lagunes where yonder fen is,
     Far lovelier than the Bay of Naples
     Yon placid cove amid the maples,
     And in my neighbor's field of corn
     I recognize the Golden Horn.

     Here Nature taught from year to year,
     When only red men came to hear,
     Methinks 'twas in this school of art
     Venice and Naples learned their part,
     But still their mistress, to my mind,
     Her young disciples leaves behind.[116]


_Feb. 26._ The most important events make no stir on their first
taking place, nor indeed in their effects directly. They seem hedged
about by secrecy. It is concussion, or the rushing together of air
to fill a vacuum, which makes a noise. The great events to which all
things consent, and for which they have prepared the way, produce no
explosion, for they are gradual, and create no vacuum which requires to
be suddenly filled; as a birth takes place in silence, and is whispered
about the neighborhood, but an assassination, which is at war with the
constitution of things, creates a tumult immediately.

Corn grows in the night.[117]


_Feb. 27._ Some geniuses seem to hover in the horizon, like heat
lightning, which is not accompanied with fertilizing rain to us, but we
are obliged to rest contented with the belief that it is purifying the
air somewhere. Others make known their presence by their effects, like
that vivid lightning which is accompanied by copious rain and thunder
and, though it clears our atmosphere, sometimes destroys our lives.
Others still impart a steady and harmless light at once to large tracts,
as the aurora borealis; and this phenomenon is hardest to be accounted
for, some thinking it to be a reflection of the polar splendor, others a
subtle fluid which pervades all things and tends always to the zenith.
All are agreed that these are equally electrical phenomena, as some
clever persons have shown by drawing a spark with their knuckles. Modern
philosophy thinks it has drawn down lightning from the clouds.


_Feb. 28._ On the death of a friend, we should consider that the fates
through confidence have devolved on us the task of a double living, that
we have henceforth to fulfill the promise of our friend's life also, in
our own, to the world.


_Feb. 29._ A friend advises by his whole behavior,[118] and never
condescends to particulars; another chides away a fault, he loves it
away. While he sees the other's error, he is silently conscious of it,
and only the more loves truth himself, and assists his friend in loving
it, till the fault is expelled and gently extinguished.


_March 2._ Love is the burden of all Nature's odes. The song of the
birds is an epithalamium, a hymeneal. The marriage of the flowers spots
the meadows and fringes the hedges with pearls and diamonds. In the deep
water, in the high air, in woods and pastures, and the bowels of the
earth, this is the employment and condition of all things.


_March 4._ I learned to-day that my ornithology had done me no service.
The birds I heard, which fortunately did not come within the scope
of my science, sung as freshly as if it had been the first morning of
creation, and had for background to their song an untrodden wilderness,
stretching through many a Carolina and Mexico of the soul.[119]


_March 6._ There is no delay in answering great questions; for them all
things have an answer ready. The Pythian priestess gave her answers
instantly, and ofttimes before the questions were fairly propounded.
Great topics do not wait for past or future to be determined, but the
state of the crops or Brighton market no bird concerns itself about.


_March 8._ The wind shifts from northeast and east to northwest and
south, and every icicle which has tinkled on the meadow grass so
long trickles down its stem and seeks its water level unerringly
with a million comrades. In the ponds the ice cracks with a busy and
inspiriting din and down the larger streams is whirled, grating hoarsely
and crashing its way along, which was so lately a firm field for the
woodman's team and the fox, sometimes with the tracks of the skaters
still fresh upon it, and the holes cut for pickerel. Town committees
inspect the bridges and causeways, as if by mere eye-force to intercede
with the ice and save the treasury.

In the brooks the slight grating sound of small cakes of ice, floating
with various speed, is full of content and promise, and where the water
gurgles under a natural bridge, you may hear these hasty rafts hold
conversation in an undertone. Every rill is a channel for the juices of
the meadow.[120] Last year's grasses and flower-stalks have been steeped
in rain and snow, and now the brooks flow with meadow tea,—thoroughwort,
mint, flagroot, and pennyroyal, all at one draught.

In the ponds the sun makes incroachments around the edges first, as ice
melts in a kettle on the fire, darting his rays through this crevice,
and preparing the deep water to act simultaneously on the under side.

     Two years and twenty now have flown;
     Their meanness time away has flung;
     These limbs to man's estate have grown,
     But cannot claim a manly tongue.

     Amidst such boundless wealth without
     I only still am poor within;
     The birds have sung their summer out,
     But still my spring does not begin.

     In vain I see the morning rise,
     In vain observe the western blaze,
     Who idly look to other skies,
     Expecting life by other ways.

     The sparrow sings at earliest dawn,
     Building her nest without delay;
     All things are ripe to hear her song,
     And now arrives the perfect day.


     Shall I then wait the autumn wind,
     Compelled to seek a milder ray,
     And leave no empty nest behind,
     No wood still echoing to my lay?[121]


_March 16._ The cabins of the settlers are the points whence radiate
these rays of green and yellow and russet over the landscape; out of
these go the axes and spades with which the landscape is painted. How
much is the Indian summer and the budding of spring related to the
cottage? Have not the flight of the crow and the gyrations of the hawk
a reference to that roof?

       *       *       *       *       *

The ducks alight at this season on the windward side of the river, in
the smooth water, and swim about by twos and threes, pluming themselves
and diving to peck at the root of the lily and the cranberries which
the frost has not loosened. It is impossible to approach them within
gunshot when they are accompanied by the gull, which rises sooner and
makes them restless. They fly to windward first, in order to get under
weigh, and are more easily reached by the shot if approached on that
side. When preparing to fly, they swim about with their heads erect,
and then, gliding along a few feet with their bodies just touching the
surface, rise heavily with much splashing and fly low at first, if not
suddenly aroused, but otherwise rise directly to survey the danger.
The cunning sportsman is not in haste to desert his position, but waits
to ascertain if, having got themselves into flying trim, they will not
return over the ground in their course to a new resting-place.


_March 20._ In society all the inspiration of my lonely hours seems to
flow back on me, and then first have expression.

Love never degrades its votaries, but lifts them up to higher walks of
being. They _over-look_ one another. All other charities are swallowed
up in this; it is gift and reward both.

We will have no vulgar Cupid for a go-between, to make us the playthings
of each other, but rather cultivate an irreconcilable hatred instead of
this.


_March 21._ The world is a fit theatre to-day in which any part may be
acted. There is this moment proposed to me every kind of life that men
lead anywhere, or that imagination can paint. By another spring I may
be a mail-carrier in Peru, or a South African planter, or a Siberian
exile, or a Greenland whaler, or a settler on the Columbia River, or a
Canton merchant, or a soldier in Florida, or a mackerel-fisher off Cape
Sable, or a Robinson Crusoe in the Pacific, or a silent navigator of any
sea. So wide is the choice of parts, what a pity if the part of Hamlet
be left out!

I am freer than any planet; no complaint reaches round the world. I can
move away from public opinion, from government, from religion, from
education, from society. Shall I be reckoned a ratable poll in the
county of Middlesex, or be rated at one spear under the palm trees of
Guinea? Shall I raise corn and potatoes in Massachusetts, or figs and
olives in Asia Minor? sit out the day in my office in State Street, or
ride it out on the steppes of Tartary? For my Brobdingnag I may sail to
Patagonia; for my Lilliput, to Lapland. In Arabia and Persia, my day's
adventures may surpass the Arabian Nights' Entertainments. I may be
a logger on the head waters of the Penobscot, to be recorded in fable
hereafter as an amphibious river-god, by as sounding a name as Triton or
Proteus; carry furs from Nootka to China, and so be more renowned than
Jason and his golden fleece; or go on a South Sea exploring expedition,
to be hereafter recounted along with the periplus of Hanno. I may repeat
the adventures of Marco Polo or Mandeville.

These are but few of my chances, and how many more things may I do with
which there are none to be compared!

       *       *       *       *       *

Thank Fortune, we are not rooted to the soil, and here is not all the
world. The buckeye does not grow in New England; the mockingbird is
rarely heard here. Why not keep pace with the day, and not allow of a
sunset nor fall behind the summer and the migration of birds? Shall we
not compete with the buffalo, who keeps pace with the seasons, cropping
the pastures of the Colorado till a greener and sweeter grass awaits
him by the Yellowstone? The wild goose is more a cosmopolite than we;
he breaks his fast in Canada, takes a luncheon in the Susquehanna, and
plumes himself for the night in a Louisiana bayou. The pigeon carries
an acorn in his crop from the King of Holland's to Mason and Dixon's
line. Yet we think if rail fences are pulled down and stone walls set
up on our farms, bounds are henceforth set to our lives and our fates
decided. If you are chosen town clerk, forsooth, you can't go to Tierra
del Fuego this summer.[122]

But what of all this? A man may gather his limbs snugly within the shell
of a mammoth squash, with his back to the northeastern boundary, and not
be unusually straitened after all. Our limbs, indeed, have room enough,
but it is our souls that rust in a corner. Let us migrate interiorly
without intermission, and pitch our tent each day nearer the western
horizon. The really fertile soils and luxuriant prairies lie on this
side the Alleghanies. There has been no Hanno of the affections. Their
domain is untravelled ground, to the Mogul's dominions.


_March 22._ While I bask in the sun on the shores of Walden Pond, by
this heat and this rustle I am absolved from all obligation to the past.
The council of nations may reconsider their votes; the grating of a
pebble annuls them.[123]


_March 27._ How many are now standing on the European coast whom another
spring will find located on the Red River, or Wisconsin! To-day we
live an antediluvian life on our quiet homesteads, and to-morrow are
transported to the turmoil and bustle of a crusading era.

Think how finite after all the known world is. Money coined at
Philadelphia is a legal tender over how much of it! You may carry
ship biscuit, beef, and pork quite round to the place you set out
from. England sends her felons to the other side for safe keeping and
convenience.


_March 30._ Pray, what things interest me at present? A long, soaking
rain, the drops trickling down the stubble, while I lay drenched on a
last year's bed of wild oats, by the side of some bare hill, ruminating.
These things are of moment. To watch this crystal globe just sent
from heaven to associate with me. While these clouds and this sombre
drizzling weather shut all in, we two draw nearer and know one another.
The gathering in of the clouds with the last rush and dying breath of
the wind, and then the regular dripping of twigs and leaves the country
o'er, the impression of inward comfort and sociableness, the drenched
stubble and trees that drop beads on you as you pass, their dim outline
seen through the rain on all sides drooping in sympathy with yourself.
These are my undisputed territory. This is Nature's English comfort.
The birds draw closer and are more familiar under the thick foliage,
composing new strains on their roosts against the sunshine.


_April 4._ We look to windward for fair weather.


_April 8._ How shall I help myself? By withdrawing into the garret, and
associating with spiders and mice, determining to meet myself face to
face sooner or later. Completely silent and attentive I will be this
hour, and the next, and forever. The most positive life that history
notices has been a constant retiring out of life, a wiping one's hands
of it, seeing how mean it is, and having nothing to do with it.


_April 9._ I read in Cudworth how "Origen determines that the stars do
not make but signify; and that the heavens are a kind of divine volume,
in whose characters they that are skilled may read or spell out human
events." Nothing can be truer, and yet astrology is possible. Men seem
to be just on the point of discerning a truth when the imposition is
greatest.


_April 17._ Farewell, etiquette! My neighbor inhabits a hollow sycamore,
and I a beech tree. What then becomes of morning calls with cards, and
deference paid to door-knockers and front entries, and presiding at
one's own table?


_April 19._ The infinite bustle of Nature of a summer's noon, or her
infinite silence of a summer's night, gives utterance to no dogma. They
do not say to us even with a seer's assurance, that this or that law is
immutable and so ever and only can the universe exist. But they are the
indifferent occasion for all things and the annulment of all laws.


_April 20._ The universe will not wait to be explained. Whoever
seriously attempts a theory of it is already behind his age. His yea
has reserved no nay for the morrow.

The wisest solution is no better than dissolution. Already the seer
_whispers_ his _convictions_ to bare walls; no audience in the land can
attend to them.

       *       *       *       *       *

An early morning walk is a blessing for the whole day. To my neighbors
who have risen in mist and rain I tell of a clear sunrise and the
singing of birds as some traditionary mythus. I look back to those
fresh but now remote hours as to the old dawn of time, when a solid and
blooming health reigned and every deed was simple and heroic.


_April 22._ Thales was the first of the Greeks who taught that souls are
immortal, and it takes equal wisdom to discern this old fact to-day.
What the first philosopher taught, the last will have to repeat. The
_world_ makes no progress.

       *       *       *       *       *

I cannot turn on my heel in a carpeted room. What a gap in the morning
is a breakfast! A supper supersedes the sunset.

       *       *       *       *       *

Methinks I hear the _ranz des vaches_ and shall soon be tempted to
desert.

       *       *       *       *       *

Will not one thick garment suffice for three thin ones? Then I shall be
less compound, and can lay my hand on myself in the dark.


_May 14._ A kind act or gift lays us under obligation not so much to the
giver as to Truth and Love. We must then be truer and kinder ourselves.
Just in proportion to our sense of the kindness, and pleasure at it, is
the debt paid. What is it to be _grateful_ but to be _gratified_,—to
be _pleased_? The nobly poor will dissolve all obligations by nobly
accepting a kindness.

       *       *       *       *       *

If we are not sensible of kindness, then indeed we incur a debt. Not
to be pleased by generous deeds at any time, though done to another,
but to sit crabbedly silent in a corner, what is it but a voluntary
imprisonment for debt? It is to see the world through a grating. Not
to let the light of virtuous actions shine on us at all times, through
every crevice, is to live in a dungeon.

       *       *       *       *       *

War is the sympathy of concussion. We would fain rub one against
another. Its rub may be friction merely, but it would rather be
titillation. We discover in the quietest scenes how faithfully war has
copied the moods of peace. Men do not peep into heaven but they see
embattled hosts there. Milton's heaven was a camp. When the sun bursts
through the morning fog I seem to hear the din of war louder than when
his chariot thundered on the plains of Troy. Every man is a warrior
when he aspires. He marches on his post. The soldier is the practical
idealist; he has no sympathy with matter, he revels in the annihilation
of it. So do we all at times. When a freshet destroys the works of
man, or a fire consumes them, or a Lisbon earthquake shakes them down,
our sympathy with persons is swallowed up in a wider sympathy with the
universe. A crash is apt to grate agreeably on our ears.

       *       *       *       *       *

Let not the faithful sorrow that he has no ear for the more fickle
harmonies of creation, if he is awake to the slower measure of virtue
and truth. If his pulse does not beat in unison with the musician's
quips and turns, it accords with the pulse-beat of the ages.[124]


_June 11._ We had appointed Saturday, August 31st, 1839, for the
commencement of our White Mountain expedition. We awake to a warm,
drizzling rain which threatens delay to our plans, but at length the
leaves and grass are dried, and it comes out a mild afternoon, of such
a sober serenity and freshness that Nature herself seems maturing some
greater scheme of her own. All things wear the aspect of a fertile
idleness. It is the eventide of the soul. After this long dripping and
oozing from every pore Nature begins to respire again more healthily
than ever. So with a vigorous shove we launch our boat from the bank,
while the flags and bulrushes curtsy a God-speed, and drop silently down
the stream.[125] As if we had launched our bark in the sluggish current
of our thoughts, and were bound nowhither.

Gradually the village murmur subsides, as when one falls into a placid
dream and on its Lethe tide is floated from the past into the future,
or as silently as fresh thoughts awaken us to new morning or evening
light.[126]

Our boat[127] was built like a fisherman's dory, with thole-pins for
four oars. Below it was green with a border of blue, as if out of
courtesy [to] the green sea and the blue heavens. It was well calculated
for service, but of consequence difficult to be dragged over shoal
places or carried round falls.

A boat should have a sort of life and independence of its own. It is a
sort of amphibious animal, a creature of two elements, a fish to swim
and a bird to fly, related by one half of its structure to some swift
and shapely fish and by the other to some strong-winged and graceful
bird. The fins of the fish will tell where to set the oars, and the tail
give some hint for the form and position of the rudder. And so may we
learn where there should be the greatest breadth of beam and depth in
the hold. The bird will show how to rig and trim the sails, and what
form to give to the prow, that it may balance the boat and divide the
air and water best.

The boat took to the water; from of old there had been a tacit league
struck between these two, and now it gladly availed itself of the old
law that the heavier shall float the lighter.

Two masts we had provided, one to serve for a tent-pole at night, and
likewise other slender poles, that we might exchange the tedium of
rowing for poling in shallow reaches. At night we lay on a buffalo-skin
under a tent of drilled cotton eight feet high and as many in
diameter, which effectually defended from dampness, so short a step
is it from tiled roofs to drilled cotton, from carpeted floors to a
buffalo-skin.[128]

There were a few berries left still on the hills, hanging with brave
content by the slenderest threads.[129]

As the night stole over, such a freshness stole across the meadow that
every blade of cut-grass seemed to teem with life.[130]

We stole noiselessly down the stream, occasionally driving a pickerel
from the covert of the pads, or a bream from her nest, and the small
green bittern would now and then sail away on sluggish wings from
some recess of the shore.[131] With its patient study by rocks and
sandy capes, has it wrested the whole of her secret from Nature yet?
It has looked out from its dull eye for so long, standing on one leg,
on moon and stars sparkling through silence and dark, and now what a
rich experience is its! What says it of stagnant pools, and reeds, and
damp night fogs? It would be worth while to look in the eye which has
been open and seeing at such hours and in such solitudes. When I behold
that dull yellowish green, I wonder if my own soul is not a bright,
invisible green. I would fain lay my eye side by side with its and learn
of it.[132]


_End of my Journal of 546 pages._[133]


_June 14._

Λόγος τοῦ ἔργου ἄνευ ὕλης.—_Aristotle's definition of art._[134]

Ὅ χρή σε νοεῖν νόου ἄνθει.—_Chaldaic Oracles._

Ἐγώ εἰμι πᾶν τὸ γεγονὸν, καὶ ὂν, καὶ ἐσόμενον, καὶ τὸν ἐμὸν πέπλον
οὐδείς πω θνητὸς ἀπεκάλυψεν.—_Inscription upon the temple at Sais._

Plotinus aimed at ἐπαφήν, and παρουσίαν ἐπιστήμης κρείττονα, and τὸ
ἑαυτὸν κέντρον τῷ οἷον πάντων κέντρῳ συνάπτειν.

Μέλλει τὸ Θεῖον δ' ἐστὶ τοιοῦτον φύσει.—EURIPIDES in _Orestes_.

"The right Reason is in part divine, in part human; the second can be
expressed, but no language can translate the first."—EMPEDOCLES.

                     "In glory and in joy,
     Behind his plough, upon the mountain-side!"[135]

I seemed to see the woods wave on a hundred mountains, as I read these
lines, and the distant rustling of their leaves reached my ear.


_June 15._ I stood by the river to-day considering the forms of the elms
reflected in the water. For every oak and birch, too, growing on the
hilltop, as well as for elms and willows, there is a graceful ethereal
tree making down from the roots, as it were the original idea of the
tree, and sometimes Nature in high tides brings her mirror to its foot
and makes it visible.[136] Anxious Nature sometimes reflects from pools
and puddles the objects which our grovelling senses may fail to see
relieved against the sky with the pure ether for background.

It would be well if we saw ourselves as in perspective always, impressed
with distinct outline on the sky, side by side with the shrubs on the
river's brim. So let our life stand to heaven as some fair, sunlit tree
against the western horizon, and by sunrise be planted on some eastern
hill to glisten in the first rays of the dawn.

       *       *       *       *       *

Why always insist that men incline to the moral side of their being?
Our life is not all moral. Surely, its actual phenomena deserve to
be studied impartially. The science of Human Nature has never been
attempted, as the science of Nature has. The dry light has never shone
on it. Neither physics nor metaphysics have touched it.

       *       *       *       *       *

We have not yet met with a sonnet, genial and affectionate, to prophane
swearing, breaking on the still night air, perhaps, like the hoarse
croak of some bird. Noxious weeds and stagnant waters have their lovers,
and the utterer of oaths must have honeyed lips, and be another Attic
bee after a fashion, for only prevalent and essential harmony and beauty
can employ the laws of sound and of light.

  [Illustration: _Trees Reflected in the River_]


_June 16._ The river down which we glided for that long afternoon was
like a clear drop of dew with the heavens and the landscape reflected in
it. And as evening drew on, faint purple clouds began to be reflected in
its water, and the cow-bells tinkled louder and more incessantly on the
banks, and like shy water-rats we stole along near the shore, looking
out for a place to pitch our camp.[137]

It seems insensibly to grow lighter as night shuts in; the furthest
hamlet begins to be revealed, which before lurked in the shade of the
noon.[138] It twinkles now through the trees like some fair evening star
darting its ray across valley and wood.

       *       *       *       *       *

Would it not be a luxury to stand up to one's chin in some retired swamp
for a whole summer's day, scenting the sweet-fern and bilberry blows,
and lulled by the minstrelsy of gnats and mosquitoes? A day passed in
the society of those Greek sages, such as described in the "Banquet" of
Xenophon, would not be comparable with the dry wit of decayed cranberry
vines, and the fresh Attic salt of the moss beds. Say twelve hours of
genial and familiar converse with the leopard frog. The sun to rise
behind alder and dogwood, and climb buoyantly to his meridian of three
hands' breadth, and finally sink to rest behind some bold western
hummock. To hear the evening chant of the mosquito from a thousand green
chapels, and the bittern begin to boom from his concealed fort like
a sunset gun! Surely, one may as profitably be soaked in the juices
of a marsh for one day, as pick his way dry-shod over sand. Cold and
damp,—are they not as rich experience as warmth and dryness?[139]

So is not shade as good as sunshine, night as day? Why be eagles and
thrushes always, and owls and whip-poor-wills never?

       *       *       *       *       *

I am pleased to see the landscape through the bottom of a tumbler, it is
clothed in such a mild, quiet light, and the barns and fences checker
and partition it with new regularity. These rough and uneven fields
stretch away with lawn-like smoothness to the horizon. The clouds are
finely distinct and picturesque, the light-blue sky contrasting with
their feathery whiteness. They are fit drapery to hang over Persia.[140]
The smith's shop, resting in such a Grecian light, is worthy to stand
beside the Parthenon. The potato and grain fields are such gardens as
he imagines who has schemes of ornamental husbandry.

If I were to write of the dignity of the farmer's life, I would behold
his farms and crops through a tumbler. All the occupations of men are
ennobled so.

Our eyes, too, are convex lenses, but we do not learn with the eyes;
they introduce us, and we learn after by converse with things.


_June 17._ Our lives will not attain to be spherical by lying on one
or the other side forever; but only by resigning ourselves to the law
of gravity in us, will our axis become coincident with the celestial
axis, and [only] by revolving incessantly through all circles, shall we
acquire a perfect sphericity.[141]

       *       *       *       *       *

Men are inclined to lay the chief stress on likeness and not on
difference. We seek to know how a thing is related to us, and not if it
is strange. We call those bodies warm whose temperature is many degrees
below our own, and never those cold which are warmer than we. There are
many degrees of warmth below blood heat, but none of cold above it.[142]

       *       *       *       *       *

Even the motto "Business before friends" admits of a high
interpretation. No interval of time can avail to defer friendship. The
concerns of time must be attended to in time. I need not make haste to
explore the whole secret of a star; if it were vanished quite out of
the firmament, so that no telescope could longer discover it, I should
not despair of knowing it entirely one day.

We meet our friend with a certain awe, as if he had just lighted on the
earth, and yet as if we had some title to be acquainted with him by our
old familiarity with sun and moon.


_June 18._ I should be pleased to meet man in the woods. I wish he were
to be encountered like wild caribous and moose.

       *       *       *       *       *

I am startled when I consider how little I am _actually_ concerned about
the things I write in my journal.

       *       *       *       *       *

Think of the Universal History, and then tell me,—when did burdock and
plantain sprout first?[143]

A fair land, indeed, do books spread open to us, from the Genesis down;
but alas! men do not take them up kindly into their own being, and
breathe into them a fresh beauty, knowing that the grimmest of them
belongs to such warm sunshine and still moonlight as the present.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of what consequence whether I stand on London bridge for the next
century, or look into the depths of this bubbling spring which I have
laid open with my hoe?


_June 19._ The other day I rowed in my boat a free, even lovely young
lady, and, as I plied the oars, she sat in the stern, and there was
nothing but she between me and the sky.[144] So might all our lives be
picturesque if they were free enough, but mean relations and prejudices
intervene to shut out the sky, and we never see a man as simple and
distinct as the man-weathercock on a steeple.

       *       *       *       *       *

The faint bugle notes which I hear in the west seem to flash on the
horizon like heat lightning.[145] Cows low in the street more friendly
than ever, and the note of the whip-poor-will, borne over the fields,
is the voice with which the woods and moonlight woo me.

       *       *       *       *       *

I shall not soon forget the sounds which lulled me when falling asleep
on the banks of the Merrimack. Far into night I hear some tyro beating
a drum incessantly with a view to some country muster, and am thrilled
by an infinite sweetness as of a music which the breeze drew from the
sinews of war. I think of the line,—

     "When the drum beat at dead of night."

How I wish it would wake the whole world to march to its melody, but
still it drums on alone in the silence and the dark. Cease not, thou
drummer of the night, thou too shalt have thy reward. The stars and the
firmament hear thee, and their aisles shall echo thy beat till its call
is answered, and the forces are mustered. The universe is attentive as
a little child to thy sound, and trembles as if each stroke bounded
against an elastic vibrating firmament. I should be contented if the
night never ended, for in the darkness heroism will not be deferred,
and I see fields where no hero has couched his lance.[146]


_June 20._ Perfect sincerity and transparency make a great part of
beauty, as in dewdrops, lakes, and diamonds. A spring is a cynosure in
the fields. All Muscovy glitters in the minute particles of mica on its
bottom, and the ripples cast their shadows flickeringly on the white
sand, as the clouds which flit across the landscape.

       *       *       *       *       *

Something like the woodland sounds will be heard to echo through the
leaves of a good book. Sometimes I hear the fresh emphatic note of the
oven-bird, and am tempted to turn many pages; sometimes the hurried
chuckling sound of the squirrel when he dives into the wall.

       *       *       *       *       *

If we only see clearly enough how mean our lives are, they will be
splendid enough. Let us remember not to strive upwards too long, but
sometimes drop plumb down the other way, and wallow in meanness. From
the deepest pit we may see the stars, if not the sun. Let us have
presence of mind enough to sink when we can't swim. At any rate, a
carcass had better lie on the bottom than float an offense to all
nostrils. It will not be falling, for we shall ride wide of the earth's
gravity as a star, and always be drawn upward still,—_semper cadendo
nunquam cadit_,—and so, by yielding to universal gravity, at length
become fixed stars.

       *       *       *       *       *

Praise begins when things are seen partially. We begin to praise when
we begin to see that a thing needs our assistance.

       *       *       *       *       *

When the heavens are obscured to us, and nothing noble or heroic
appears, but we are oppressed by imperfection and shortcoming on all
hands, we are apt to suck our thumbs and decry our fates. As if nothing
were to be done in cloudy weather, or, if heaven were not accessible
by the upper road, men would not find out a lower. Sometimes I feel
so cheap that I am inspired, and could write a poem about it,—but
straightway I cannot, for I am no longer mean. Let me know that I am
ailing, and I am well. We should not always beat off the impression of
trivialness, but make haste to welcome and cherish it. Water the weed
till it blossoms; with cultivation it will bear fruit. There are two
ways to victory,—to strive bravely, or to yield. How much pain the last
will save we have not yet learned.


_June 21._ I shall not soon forget my first night in a tent,—how the
distant barking of dogs for so many still hours revealed to me the
riches of the night. Who would not be a dog and bay the moon?[147]

       *       *       *       *       *

I never feel that I am inspired unless my body is also. It too spurns a
tame and commonplace life. They are fatally mistaken who think, while
they strive with their minds, that they may suffer their bodies to
stagnate in luxury or sloth. The body is the first proselyte the Soul
makes. Our life is but the Soul made known by its fruits, the body.
The whole duty of man may be expressed in one line,—Make to yourself a
perfect body.


_June 22._ What a man knows, that he does.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is odd that people will wonder how Shakespeare could write as he
did without knowing Latin, or Greek, or geography, as if these were of
more consequence than to know how to whistle. They are not backward to
recognize Genius,—how it dispenses with those furtherances which others
require, leaps where they crawl,—and yet they never cease to marvel that
so it was,—that it was Genius, and helped itself.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nothing can shock a truly brave man but dullness. One can tolerate many
things. What mean these sly, suspicious looks, as if you were an odd
fish, a piece of crockery-ware to be tenderly handled? Surely people
forget how many rebuffs every man has experienced in his day,—perhaps
has fallen into a horsepond, eaten freshwater clams, or worn one shirt
for a week without washing. Cannot a man be as calmly tolerant as a
potato field in the sun, whose equanimity is not disturbed by Scotch
thistles over the wall, but there it smiles and waxes till the harvest,
let thistles mount never so high? You cannot receive a shock, unless you
have an electric affinity for that which shocks you. Have no affinity
for what is shocking.[148]

Do not present a gleaming edge to ward off harm, for that will oftenest
attract the lightning, but rather be the all-pervading ether which
the lightning does not strike but purify. Then will the rudeness or
profanity of your companion be like a flash across the face of your sky,
lighting up and revealing its serene depths.[149] Earth cannot shock
the heavens; but its dull vapor and foul smoke make a bright cloud spot
in the ether, and anon the sun, like a cunning artificer, will cut and
paint it, and set it for a jewel in the breast of the sky.[150]

When we are shocked at vice we express a lingering sympathy with it.
Dry rot, rust, and mildew shock no man, for none is subject to them.


_June 23._ We Yankees are not so far from right, who answer one question
by asking another. Yes and No are lies. A true answer will not aim to
establish anything, but rather to set all well afloat. All answers are
in the future, and day answereth to day. Do we think we can anticipate
them?

In Latin, to respond is to pledge one's self before the gods to do
faithfully and honorably, as a man should, in any case. This is good.

       *       *       *       *       *

Music soothes the din of philosophy and lightens incessantly over the
heads of sages.[151]

       *       *       *       *       *

How can the language of the poet be more expressive than nature? He
is content that what he has already read in simple characters, or
indifferently in all, be translated into the same again.

       *       *       *       *       *

He is the true artist whose life is his material; every stroke of
the chisel must enter his own flesh and bone and not grate dully on
marble.[152]

       *       *       *       *       *

The Springs.—What is any man's discourse to me if I am not sensible of
something in it as steady and cheery as the creak of the crickets? In
it the woods must be relieved against the sky. Men tire me when I am
not constantly greeted and cheered in their discourse, as it were by
the flux of sparkling streams.

       *       *       *       *       *

I cannot see the bottom of the sky, because I cannot see to the bottom
of myself. It is the symbol of my own infinity. My eye penetrates as
far into the ether as that depth is inward from which my contemporary
thought springs.

Not by constraint or severity shall you have access to true wisdom, but
by abandonment, and childlike mirthfulness. If you would know aught, be
gay before it.


_June 24._ When I read Cudworth I find I can tolerate all,—atomists,
pneumatologists, atheists, and theists,—Plato, Aristotle, Leucippus,
Democritus, and Pythagoras. It is the attitude of these men, more than
any communication, which charms me. It is so rare to find a man musing.
But between them and their commentators there is an endless dispute. But
if it come to that, that you compare notes, then you are all wrong. As
it is, each takes me up into the serene heavens, and paints earth and
sky. Any sincere thought is irresistible; it lifts us to the zenith,
whither the smallest bubble rises as surely as the largest.

Dr. Cudworth does not consider that the belief in a deity is as great a
heresy as exists. Epicurus held that the gods were "of human form, yet
were so thin and subtile, as that, comparatively with our terrestrial
bodies, they might be called incorporeal; they having not so much
_carnem_ as _quasi-carnem_, nor _sanguinem_ as _quasi-sanguinem_,
a certain kind of aerial or ethereal flesh and blood." This, which
Cudworth pronounces "romantical," is plainly as good doctrine as his
own. As if any sincere thought were not the best sort of truth!

       *       *       *       *       *

There is no doubt but the highest morality in the books is rhymed
or measured,—is, in form as well as substance, poetry. Such is the
scripture of all nations. If I were to compile a volume to contain the
condensed wisdom of mankind, I should quote no rhythmless line.[153]

       *       *       *       *       *

Not all the wit of a college can avail to make one harmonious line. It
never _happens_. It may get so as to jingle, but a jingle is akin to a
jar,—jars regularly recurring.[154]

So delicious is plain speech to my ears, as if I were to be more
delighted by the whistling of the shot than frightened by the flying of
the splinters, I am content, I fear, to be quite battered down and made
a ruin of. I outgeneral myself when I direct the enemy to my vulnerable
points.

The loftiest utterance of Love is, perhaps, sublimely satirical.
Sympathy with what is sound makes sport of what is unsound.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cliffs. Evening.—Though the sun set a quarter of an hour ago, his rays
are still visible, darting half-way to the zenith. That glowing morrow
in the west flashes on me like a faint presentiment of morning when I
am falling asleep. A dull mist comes rolling from the west, as if it
were the dust which day has raised. A column of smoke is rising from
the woods yonder, to uphold heaven's roof till the light comes again.
The landscape, by its patient resting there, teaches me that all good
remains with him that waiteth, and that I shall sooner overtake the dawn
by remaining here, than by hurrying over the hills of the west.

Morning and evening are as like as brother and sister. The sparrow and
thrush sing and the frogs peep for both.

The woods breathe louder and louder behind me. With what hurry-skurry
night takes place! The wagon rattling over yonder bridge is the
messenger which day sends back to night; but the dispatches are sealed.
In its rattle the village seems to say, This one sound, and I have done.

Red, then, is Day's color; at least it is the color of his heel. He is
'stepping westward.' We only notice him when he comes and when he goes.

With noble perseverance the dog bays the stars yonder. I too, like
thee, walk alone in this strange, familiar night, my voice, like thine,
beating against its friendly concave; and barking I hear only my own
voice. 10 o'clock.


_June 25._ Let me see no other conflict but with prosperity. If my path
run on before me level and smooth, it is all a mirage; in reality it is
steep and arduous as a chamois pass. I will not let the years roll over
me like a Juggernaut car.

We will warm us at each other's fire. Friendship is not such a cold
refining process as a double sieve, but a glowing furnace in which all
impurities are consumed.

Men have learned to touch before they scrutinize,—to shake hands, and
not to stare.


_June 26._ The best poetry has never been written, for when it might
have been, the poet forgot it, and when it was too late remembered it;
or when it might have been, the poet remembered it, and when it was too
late forgot it.

The highest condition of art is artlessness.

Truth is always paradoxical.

He will get to the goal first who stands stillest.

There is one let better than any help, and that is,—_Let-alone_.

By sufferance you may escape suffering.

He who resists not at all will never surrender.

When a dog runs at you, whistle for him.

Say, Not so, and you will outcircle the philosophers.

Stand outside the wall, and no harm can reach you. The danger is that
you be walled in with it.

_June 27._ I am living this 27th of June, 1840, a dull, cloudy day and
no sun shining. The clink of the smith's hammer sounds feebly over the
roofs, and the wind is sighing gently, as if dreaming of cheerfuller
days. The farmer is plowing in yonder field, craftsmen are busy in the
shops, the trader stands behind the counter, and all works go steadily
forward. But I will have nothing to do; I will tell fortune that I
play no game with her, and she may reach me in my Asia of serenity and
indolence if she can.

       *       *       *       *       *

For an impenetrable shield, stand inside yourself.[155]

       *       *       *       *       *

He was no artist, but an artisan, who first made shields of brass.[156]

       *       *       *       *       *

Unless we meet religiously, we prophane one another. What was the
consecrated ground round the temple, we have used as no better than a
domestic court.

Our friend's is as holy a shrine as any God's, to be approached with
sacred love and awe. Veneration is the measure of Love. Our friend
answers ambiguously, and sometimes before the question is propounded,
like the oracle of Delphi. He forbears to ask explanation, but doubts
and surmises darkly with full faith, as we silently ponder our fates.

In no presence are we so susceptible to shame. Our hour is a sabbath,
our abode a temple, our gifts peace offerings, our conversation a
communion, our silence a prayer. In prophanity we are absent, in
holiness near, in sin estranged, in innocence reconciled.


_June 28._ The prophane never hear music; the holy ever hear it. It is
God's voice, the divine breath audible. Where it is heard, there is a
sabbath. It is omnipotent; all things obey it as they obey virtue. It
is the herald of virtue.[157] It passes by sorrow, for grief hangs its
harp on the willows.


_June 29._ Of all phenomena, my own race are the most mysterious and
undiscoverable. For how many years have I striven to meet one, even on
common manly ground, and have not succeeded!


_June 30._ I sailed from Fair Haven last evening as gently and steadily
as the clouds sail through the atmosphere. The wind came blowing
blithely from the southwest fields, and stepped into the folds of our
sail like a winged horse, pulling with a strong and steady impulse.
The sail bends gently to the breeze, as swells some generous impulse of
the heart, and anon flutters and flaps with a kind of human suspense.
I could watch the motions of a sail forever, they are so rich and
full of meaning. I watch the play of its pulse, as if it were my own
blood beating there. The varying temperature of distant atmospheres
is graduated on its scale. It is a free, buoyant creature, the bauble
of the heavens and the earth. A gay pastime the air plays with it. If
it swells and tugs, it is because the sun lays his windy finger on it.
The breeze it plays with has been outdoors so long. So thin is it, and
yet so full of life; so noiseless when it labors hardest, so noisy and
impatient when least serviceable.[158] So am I blown on by God's breath,
so flutter and flap, and fill gently out with the breeze.

In this fresh evening each blade and leaf looks as if it had been dipped
in an icy liquid greenness. Let eyes that ache come here and look,—the
sight will be a sovereign eyewater,—or else wait and bathe them in the
dark.

We go forth into the fields, and there the wind blows freshly onward,
and still on, and we must make new efforts not to be left behind. What
does the dogged wind intend, that, like a willful cur, it will not let
me turn aside to rest or content? Must it always reprove and provoke
me, and never welcome me as an equal?

The truth shall prevail and falsehood discover itself, as long as the
wind blows on the hills.

       *       *       *       *       *

A man's life should be a stately march to a sweet but unheard music, and
when to his fellows it shall seem irregular and inharmonious, he will
only be stepping to a livelier measure, or his nicer ear hurry him into
a thousand symphonies and concordant variations. There will be no halt
ever, but at most a marching on his post, or such a pause as is richer
than any sound, when the melody runs into such depth and wildness as to
be no longer heard, but implicitly consented to with the whole life and
being. He will take a false step never, even in the most arduous times,
for then the music will not fail to swell into greater sweetness and
volume, and itself rule the movement it inspired.[159]

       *       *       *       *       *

I have a deep sympathy with war, it so apes the gait and bearing of the
soul.

       *       *       *       *       *

Value and effort are as much coincident as weight and a tendency to
fall. In a very wide but true sense, effort is the deed itself, and
it is only when these sensible stuffs intervene, that our attention
is distracted from the deed to the accident. It is never the deed men
praise, but some marble or canvas which are only a staging to the real
work.[160]


_July 1._ To be a man is to do a man's work; always our resource is
to endeavor. We may well say, Success to our endeavors. Effort is the
prerogative of virtue.[161]

The true laborer is recompensed by his labor, not by his employer.
Industry is its own wages. Let us not suffer our hands to lose one jot
of their handiness by looking behind to a mean recompense, knowing that
our true endeavor cannot be thwarted, nor we be cheated of our earnings
unless by not earning them.[162]

       *       *       *       *       *

The true poem is not that which the public read. There is always a poem
not printed on paper, coincident with the production of this, which is
stereotyped in the poet's life, is what he has become through his work.
Some symbol of value may shape itself to the senses in wood, or marble,
or verse, but this is fluctuating as the laborer's hire, which may or
may not be withheld. His very material is not material but supernatural.
Perhaps the hugest and most effective deed may have no sensible result
at all on earth, but paint itself in the heavens in new stars and
constellations. Its very material lies out of nature. When, in rare
moments, we strive wholly with one consent, which we call a yearning,
we may not hope that our work will stand in any artist's gallery.[163]
Let not the artist expect that his true work will stand in any prince's
gallery.


_July 2._ I am not taken up, like Moses, upon a mountain to learn the
law, but lifted up in my seat here, in the warm sunshine and genial
light.

       *       *       *       *       *

They who are ready to go are already invited.

       *       *       *       *       *

Neither men nor things have any true mode of invitation but to be
inviting.

       *       *       *       *       *

Can that be a task which all things abet, and to postpone which is to
strive against nature?[164]


_July 3._ When Alexander appears, the Hercynian and Dodonean woods seem
to wave a welcome to him.

       *       *       *       *       *

Do not thoughts and men's lives enrich the earth and change the aspect
of things as much as a new growth of wood?

       *       *       *       *       *

What are Godfrey and Gonsalvo unless we breathe a life into them, and
reënact their exploits as a prelude to our own? The past is only so
heroic as we see it; it is the canvas on which our conception of heroism
is painted, the dim prospectus of our future field. We are dreaming of
what we are to do.[165]

       *       *       *       *       *

The last sunrise I witnessed seemed to outshine the splendor of all
preceding ones, and I was convinced that it behooved man to dawn as
freshly, and with equal promise and steadiness advance into the career
of life, with as lofty and serene a countenance to move onward through
his midday to a yet fairer and more promising setting. Has the day
grown old when it sets? and shall man wear out sooner than the sun? In
the crimson colors of the west I discern the budding hues of dawn. To
my western brother it is rising pure and bright as it did to me, but
the evening exhibits in the still rear of day the beauty which through
morning and noon escaped me.[166] When we are oppressed by the heat and
turmoil of the noon, let us remember that the sun which scorches us with
brazen beams is gilding the hills of morning and awaking the woodland
quires for other men.

We will have a dawn, and noon, and serene sunset in ourselves.

What we call the gross atmosphere of evening is the accumulated deed
of the day, which absorbs the rays of beauty, and shows more richly
than the naked promise of the dawn. By earnest toil in the heat of the
noon, let us get ready a rich western blaze against the evening of our
lives.[167]

       *       *       *       *       *

Low-thoughted, plodding men have come and camped in my neighbor's field
to-night, with camp music and bustle. Their bugle instantly finds a
sounding board in the heavens, though mean lips blow it. The sky is
delighted with strains which the connoisseur rejects. It seems to say,
Now is this my own earth.[168]

       *       *       *       *       *

In music are the centripetal and centrifugal forces. The universe needed
only to hear a divine harmony that every star might fall into its proper
place and assume a true sphericity.[169]


_July 4._ 4 o'clock, A. M. The Townsend Light Infantry encamped last
night in my neighbor's inclosure.

The night still breathes slumberously over field and wood, when a few
soldiers gather about one tent in the twilight, and their band plays an
old Scotch air, with bugle and drum and fife attempered to the season.
It seems like the morning hymn of creation. The first sounds of the
awakening camp, mingled with the chastened strains which so sweetly
salute the dawn, impress me as the morning prayer of an army.[170]

And now the morning gun fires. The soldier awakening to creation and
awakening it. I am sure none are cowards now. These strains are the
roving dreams which steal from tent to tent, and break forth into
distinct melody. They are the soldier's morning thought. Each man awakes
himself with lofty emotions, and would do some heroic deed. You need
preach no homily to him; he is the stuff they are made of.

       *       *       *       *       *

The whole course of our lives should be analogous to one day of the
soldier's. His Genius seems to whisper in his ear what demeanor is
befitting, and in his bravery and his march he yields a blind and
partial obedience.

       *       *       *       *       *

The fresher breeze which accompanies the dawn rustles the oaks and
birches, and the earth respires calmly with the creaking of crickets.
Some hazel leaf stirs gently, as if anxious not to awake the day too
abruptly, while the time is hastening to the distinct line between
darkness and light. And soldiers issue from their dewy tents, and as if
in answer to expectant nature, sing a sweet and far-echoing hymn.

       *       *       *       *       *

We may well neglect many things, provided we overlook them.

       *       *       *       *       *

When to-day I saw the "Great Ball" rolled majestically along, it seemed
a shame that man could not move like it. All dignity and grandeur has
something of the undulatoriness of the sphere. It is the secret of
majesty in the rolling gait of the elephant, and of all grace in action
and in art. The line of beauty is a curve. Each man seems striving to
imitate its gait, and keep pace with it, but it moves on regardless
and conquers the multitude with its majesty. What shame that our lives,
which should be the source of planetary motion and sanction the order of
the spheres, are full of abruptness and angularity, so as not to roll,
nor move majestically.[171]


_July 5._ Go where we will, we discover infinite change in particulars
only, not in generals.

       *       *       *       *       *

You cannot rob a man of anything which he will miss.


_July 6._ All this worldly wisdom was once the unamiable heresy of some
wise man.[172]

       *       *       *       *       *

I observe a truly wise practice on every hand, in education, in
religion, and the morals of society,—enough embodied wisdom to have set
up many an ancient philosopher.[173]

This society, if it were a person to be met face to face, would not
only be tolerated but courted, with its so impressive experience and
admirable acquaintance with things.

Consider society at any epoch, and who does not see that heresy has
already _prevailed_ in it?[174]

       *       *       *       *       *

Have no mean hours, but be grateful for every hour, and accept what it
brings. The reality will make any sincere record respectable. No day
will have been wholly misspent, if one sincere, thoughtful page has been
written.

Let the daily tide leave some deposit on these pages, as it leaves sand
and shells on the shore. So much increase of _terra firma_. This may be
a calendar of the ebbs and flows of the soul; and on these sheets as a
beach, the waves may cast up pearls and seaweed.


_July 7._ I have experienced such simple joy in the trivial matters of
fishing and sporting, formerly, as might inspire the muse of Homer and
Shakespeare. And now, when I turn over the pages and ponder the plates
of the "Angler's Souvenir," I exclaim with the poet,—

                       "Can such things be,
     And overcome us like a summer's cloud?"[175]

When I hear a sudden burst from a horn, I am startled, as if one had
provoked such wildness as he could not rule nor tame. He dares to wake
the echoes which he cannot put to rest.[176]


_July 8._ Doubt and falsehood are yet good preachers. They affirm
roundly, while they deny partially.

       *       *       *       *       *

I am pleased to learn that Thales was up and stirring by night not
unfrequently, as his astronomical discoveries prove.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a saying of Solon that "it is necessary to observe a medium in
all things."

The golden mean, in ethics as in physics, is the centre of the system,
and that about which all revolve; and though, to a distant and plodding
planet, it is the uttermost extreme, yet, when that planet's year is
complete, it will be found central.[177] They who are alarmed lest
virtue run into extreme good, have not yet wholly embraced her, but
described only a slight arc about her, and from so small a curvature
you can calculate no centre whatever; but their mean is no better than
meanness, nor their medium than mediocrity.

The brave man, while he observes strictly this golden mean, seems to run
through all extremes with impunity; like the sun, which now appears in
the zenith, now in the horizon, and again is faintly reflected from the
moon's disk, and has the credit of describing an entire great circle,
crossing the equinoctial and solstitial colures, without detriment to
his steadfastness or mediocrity.[178]

       *       *       *       *       *

Every planet asserts its own to be the centre of the system.

       *       *       *       *       *

Only _meanness_ is mediocre, _moderate_; but the true _medium_ is not
contained within any _bounds_, but is as wide as the ends it connects.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Solon endeavored to prove that Salamis had formerly belonged to the
Athenians and not to the Megarians, he caused the tombs to be opened,
and showed that the inhabitants of Salamis turned the faces of their
dead to the same side with the Athenians, but the Megarians to the
opposite side.[179]

So does each part bear witness to all, and the history of all the past
may be read in a single grain of its ashes.


_July 9._ In most men's religion the ligature which should be its muscle
and sinew is rather like that thread which the accomplices of Cylon held
in their hands, when they went abroad from the temple of Minerva, the
other end being attached to the statue of the goddess. But frequently,
as in their case, the thread breaks, being stretched, and they are left
without an asylum.[180]

       *       *       *       *       *

The value of many traits in Grecian history depends not so much on their
importance as history, as [on] the readiness with which they accept a
wide interpretation, and illustrate the poetry and ethics of mankind.
When they announce no particular truth, they are yet central to all
truth. They are like those examples by which we improve, but of which
we never formally extract the moral. Even the isolated and unexplained
facts are like the ruins of the temples which in imagination we restore,
and ascribe to some Phidias, or other master.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Greeks were boys in the sunshine, the Romans were men in the field,
the Persians women in the house, the Egyptians old men in the dark.

       *       *       *       *       *

He who receives an injury is an accomplice of the wrong-doer.


_July 10._ To myself I am as pliant as osier, and my courses seem not so
easy to be calculated as Encke's comet; but I am powerless to bend the
character of another; he is like iron in my hands. I could tame a hyena
more easily than my friend. I contemplate him as a granite boulder. He
is material which no tool of mine will work. A naked savage will fell an
oak with a firebrand, and wear a hatchet out of the rock, but I cannot
hew the smallest chip out of my fellow. There is a character in every
one which no art can reach to beautify or deform.[181]

       *       *       *       *       *

Nothing was ever so unfamiliar and startling to me as my own thoughts.

       *       *       *       *       *

We know men through their eyes. You might say that the eye was always
original and unlike another. It is the feature of the individual, and
not of the family,—in twins still different. All a man's privacy is in
his eye, and its expression he cannot alter more than he can alter his
character. So long as we look a man in the eye, it seems to rule the
other features, and make them, too, original. When I have mistaken one
person for another, observing only his form, and carriage, and inferior
features, the unlikeness seemed of the least consequence; but when I
caught his eye, and my doubts were removed, it seemed to pervade every
feature.

The eye revolves on an independent pivot which we can no more control
than our own will. Its axle is the axle of the soul, as the axis of the
earth is coincident with the axis of the heavens.


_July 11._ The true art is not merely a sublime consolation and holiday
labor which the gods have given to sickly mortals, to be wrought at in
parlors, and not in stithies amid soot and smoke, but such a masterpiece
as you may imagine a dweller on the table-lands of Central Asia might
produce, with threescore and ten years for canvas, and the faculties of
a man for tools,—a human life, wherein you might hope to discover more
than the freshness of Guido's Aurora, or the mild light of Titian's
landscapes; not a bald imitation or rival of Nature, but the restored
original of which she is the reflection. For such a work as this,
whole galleries of Greece and Italy are a mere mixing of colors and
preparatory quarrying of marble.[182]

Not how is the idea expressed in stone or on canvas, is the question,
but how far it has obtained form and expression in the life of the
artist.

There is much covert truth in the old mythology which makes Vulcan
a brawny and deformed smith, who sweat more than the other gods. His
stithy was not like a modern studio.

       *       *       *       *       *

Let us not wait any longer, but step down from the mountains on to the
plain of earth. Let our delay be like the sun's, when he lingers on the
dividing line of day and night a brief space when the world is grateful
for his light. We will make such haste as the morning and such delay as
the evening.[183]

       *       *       *       *       *

It concerns us rather to be something here present than to leave
something behind us.[184]

       *       *       *       *       *

It is the man determines what is said, not the words. If a mean person
uses a wise maxim, I bethink me how it can be interpreted so as to
commend itself to his meanness; but if a wise man makes a commonplace
remark, I consider what wider construction it will admit. When Pittacus
says, "It is necessary to accommodate one's self to the time and take
advantage of the occasion," I assent. He might have considered that
to accommodate one's self to all times, and take advantage of all
occasions, was really to be independent, and make our own opportunity.


_July 12._ What first suggested that necessity was grim, and made fate
so fatal? The strongest is always the least violent. Necessity is a
sort of Eastern cushion on which I recline. I contemplate its mild,
inflexible countenance, as the haze in October days. When I am vexed I
only ask to be left alone with it. Leave me to my fate. It is the bosom
of time and the lap of eternity; since to be necessary is to be needful,
it is only another name for inflexibility of good. How I welcome my grim
fellow and aspire to be such a necessity as he! He is so flexible, and
yields to me as the air to my body! I leap and dance in his midst, and
play with his beard till he smiles. I greet thee, my elder brother, who
with thy touch ennoblest all things. Must it be so, then is it good.
Thou commendest even petty ills by thy countenance.

Over Greece hangs the divine necessity, ever a mellower heaven of
itself, whose light too gilds the Acropolis and a thousand fanes and
groves.[185]

       *       *       *       *       *

Pittacus said there was no better course than to endeavor to do well
what you are doing at any moment.

       *       *       *       *       *

Go where he will, the wise man is proprietor of all things. Everything
bears a similar inscription, if we could but read it, to that on the
vase found in the stomach of a fish in old times,—"To the most wise."

       *       *       *       *       *

When his impious fellow-passengers invoked the gods in a storm, Bias
cried, "Hist! hist! lest the gods perceive that you are here, for we
should all be lost."

       *       *       *       *       *

A wise man will always have his duds picked up, and be ready for
whatever may happen, as the prudent merchant, notwithstanding the lavish
display of his wares, will yet have them packed or easy to be removed in
emergencies. In this sense there is something sluttish in all finery.
When I see a fine lady or gentleman dressed to the top of the fashion,
I wonder what they would do if an earthquake should happen, or a fire
suddenly break out, for they seem to have counted only on fair weather,
and that things will go on smoothly and without jostling. Those curls
and jewels, so nicely adjusted, expect an unusual deference from the
elements.

Our dress should be such as will hang conveniently about us, and fit
equally well in good and in bad fortune; such as will approve itself
of the right fashion and fabric, whether for the cotillion or the
earthquake. In the sack of Priene, when the inhabitants with much hurry
and bustle were carrying their effects to a place of safety, some one
asked Bias, who remained tranquil amid the confusion, why he was not
thinking how he should save something, as the others were. "I do so,"
said Bias, "for I carry all my effects with me."


_July 14._ Our discourse should be _ex tempore_, but not _pro tempore_.


_July 16._ We are as much refreshed by sounds as by sights, or scents,
or flavors,—as the barking of a dog heard in the woods at midnight, or
the tinklings which attend the dawn.

As I picked blackberries this morning, by starlight, the distant yelping
of a dog fell on my inward ear, as the cool breeze on my cheek.


_July 19._ These two days that I have not written in my Journal, set
down in the calendar as the 17th and 18th of July, have been really an
æon in which a Syrian empire might rise and fall. How many Persias have
been lost and won in the interim? Night is spangled with fresh stars.


_July 26._ When I consider how, after sunset, the stars come out
gradually in troops from behind the hills and woods, I confess that I
could not have contrived a more curious and inspiring night.


_July 27._ Some men, like some buildings, are bulky but not great. The
Pyramids any traveller may measure with his line, but the dimensions
of the Parthenon in feet and inches will seem to dangle from its
entablature like an elastic drapery.[186]

       *       *       *       *       *

Much credit is due to a brave man's eye. It is the focus in which all
rays are collected. It sees from within, or from the centre, just as we
scan the whole concave of the heavens at a glance, but can compass only
one side of the pebble at our feet.[187]

       *       *       *       *       *

The grandeur of these stupendous masses of clouds, tossed into such
irregular greatness across the sky, seems thrown away on the meanness
of my employment. The drapery seems altogether too rich for such poor
acting.[188]

In vain the sun challenges man to equal greatness in his career. We
look in vain over earth for a Roman greatness to answer the eternal
provocation.[189]

We look up to the gilded battlements of the eternal city, and are
contented to be suburban dwellers outside the walls.[190]

       *       *       *       *       *

By the last breath of the May air I inhale I am reminded that the ages
never got so far down as this before. The wood thrush is a more modern
philosopher than Plato and Aristotle. They are now a dogma, but he
preaches the doctrine of this hour.

       *       *       *       *       *

This systole-diastole of the heart, the circulation of the blood from
the centre to the extremities, the chylification which is constantly
going on in our bodies are a sort of military evolution, a struggle to
outgeneral the decay of time by the skillfulest tactics.

       *       *       *       *       *

When bravery is worsted, it joins the peace society.

       *       *       *       *       *

A word is wiser than any man, than any series of words. In its present
received sense it may be false, but in its inner sense by descent and
analogy it approves itself. Language is the most perfect work of art in
the world. The chisel of a thousand years retouches it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nature refuses to sympathize with our sorrow. She seems not to have
provided for, but by a thousand contrivances against it. She has
bevelled the margins of the eyelids that the tears may not overflow on
the cheek.[191]

       *       *       *       *       *

We can conceive of a Bravery so wide that nothing can meet to befall it,
so omnipresent that nothing can lie in wait for it, so permanent that
no obstinacy can reduce it. The stars are its silent sentries by night,
and the sun its pioneer by day. From its abundant cheerfulness spring
flowers and the rainbow, and its infinite humor and wantonness produce
corn and vines.[192]




V

1841

(ÆT. 23-24)


_Jan. 23._ A day is lapsing. I hear cockerels crowing in the yard,
and see them stalking among the chips in the sun. I hear busy feet on
the floors, and the whole house jars with industry. Surely the day is
well spent, and the time is full to overflowing. Mankind is as busy
as the flowers in summer, which make haste to unfold themselves in the
forenoon, and close their petals in the afternoon.

The momentous topics of human life are always of secondary importance
to the business in hand, just as carpenters discuss politics between
the strokes of the hammer while they are shingling a roof.[193]

The squeaking of the pump sounds as necessary as the music of the
spheres.

The solidity and apparent necessity of this routine insensibly recommend
it to me. It is like a cane or a cushion for the infirm, and in view of
it all are infirm. If there were but one erect and solid-standing tree
in the woods, all creatures would go to rub against it and make sure of
their footing. Routine is a ground to stand on, a wall to retreat to;
we cannot draw on our boots without bracing ourselves against it.[194]
It is the fence over which neighbors lean when they talk. All this
cockcrowing, and hawing and geeing, and business in the streets, is like
the spring-board on which tumblers perform and develop their elasticity.
Our health requires that we should recline on it from time to time. When
we are in it, the hand stands still on the face of the clock, and we
grow like corn in the genial dankness and silence of the night.[195] Our
weakness wants it, but our strength uses it. Good for the body is the
work of the body, good for the soul the work of the soul, and good for
either the work of the other. Let them not call hard names, nor know a
divided interest.

       *       *       *       *       *

When I detect a beauty in any of the recesses of nature, I am
reminded, by the serene and retired spirit in which it requires to
be contemplated, of the inexpressible privacy of a life,—how silent
and unambitious it is. The beauty there is in mosses will have to be
considered from the holiest, quietest nook.[196]

The gods delight in stillness; they say, 'St—'st. My truest, serenest
moments are too still for emotion; they have woollen feet. In all our
lives we live under the hill, and if we are not gone we live there
still.


_Jan. 24. Sunday._ I almost shrink from the arduousness of meeting men
erectly day by day.

Be resolutely and faithfully what you are; be humbly what you aspire to
be. Be sure you give men the best of your wares, though they be poor
enough, and the gods will help you to lay up a better store for the
future. Man's noblest gift to man is his sincerity, for it embraces his
integrity also. Let him not dole out of himself anxiously, to suit their
weaker or stronger stomachs, but make a clean gift of himself, and empty
his coffers at once. I would be in society as in the landscape; in the
presence of nature there is no reserve, nor effrontery.

       *       *       *       *       *

Coleridge says of the "_ideas_ spoken out everywhere in the Old and New
Testament," that they "resemble the fixed stars, which appear of the
same size to the naked as to the armed eye; the magnitude of which the
telescope may rather seem to diminish than to increase."

       *       *       *       *       *

It is more proper for a spiritual fact to have suggested an analogous
natural one, than for the natural fact to have preceded the spiritual
in our minds.

       *       *       *       *       *

By spells seriousness will be forced to cut capers, and drink a deep and
refreshing draught of silliness; to turn this sedate day of Lucifer's
and Apollo's, into an all fools' day for Harlequin and Cornwallis. The
sun does not grudge his rays to either, but they are alike patronized
by the gods. Like overtasked schoolboys, all my members and nerves
and sinews petition Thought for a recess, and my very thigh-bones
itch to slip away from under me, and run and join the mêlée. I exult
in stark inanity, leering on nature and the soul. We think the gods
reveal themselves only to sedate and musing gentlemen. But not so; the
buffoon in the midst of his antics catches unobserved glimpses, which
he treasures for the lonely hour. When I have been playing tomfool, I
have been driven to exchange the old for a more liberal and catholic
philosophy.


_Jan. 25. Monday._ To-day I feel the migratory instinct strong in me,
and all my members and humors anticipate the breaking up of winter. If
I yielded to this impulse, it would surely guide me to summer haunts.
This indefinite restlessness and fluttering on the perch do, no doubt,
prophesy the final migration of souls out of nature to a serene summer,
in long harrows and waving lines[197] in the spring weather, over what
fair uplands and fertile Elysian meadows winging their way at evening
and seeking a resting-place with loud cackling and uproar!

       *       *       *       *       *

Wealth, no less than knowledge, is power. Among the Bedouins the richest
man is the sheik, among savages he who has most iron and wampum is
chief, and in England and America he is the merchant prince.

       *       *       *       *       *

We should strengthen, and beautify, and industriously mould our bodies
to be fit companions of the soul,—assist them to grow up like trees, and
be agreeable and wholesome objects in nature. I think if I had had the
disposal of this soul of man, I should have bestowed it sooner on some
antelope of the plains than upon this sickly and sluggish body.


_Jan. 26. Tuesday._ I have as much property as I can command and use.
If by a fault in my character I do not derive my just revenues, there is
virtually a mortgage on my inheritance. A man's wealth is never entered
in the registrar's office. Wealth does not come in along the great
thoroughfares, it does not float on the Erie or Pennsylvania canal, but
is imported by a solitary track without bustle or competition, from a
brave industry to a quiet mind.

       *       *       *       *       *

I had a dream last night which had reference to an act in my life in
which I had been most disinterested and true to my highest instinct but
completely failed in realizing my hopes; and now, after so many months,
in the stillness of sleep, complete justice was rendered me. It was a
divine remuneration. In my waking hours I could not have conceived of
such retribution; the presumption of desert would have damned the whole.
But now I was permitted to be not so much a subject as a partner to that
retribution. It was the award of divine justice, which will at length
be and is even now accomplished.[198]

       *       *       *       *       *

Good writing as well as good acting will be obedience to conscience.
There must not be a particle of will or whim mixed with it. If we can
listen, we shall hear. By reverently listening to the inner voice, we
may reinstate ourselves on the pinnacle of humanity.


_Jan. 27. Wednesday._ In the compensation of the dream, there was no
implied loss to any, but immeasurable advantage to all.[199]

       *       *       *       *       *

The punishment of sin is not positive, as is the reward of virtue.

       *       *       *       *       *

For a flower, I like the name pansy, or _pensée_, best of any.


_Jan. 28._ No innocence can quite stand up under suspicion, if it is
conscious of being suspected. In the company of one who puts a wrong
construction upon your actions, they are apt really to deserve a
mean construction. While in that society I can never retrieve myself.
Attribute to me a great motive, and I shall not fail to have one; but a
mean one, and the fountain of virtue will be poisoned by the suspicion.
Show men unlimited faith as the coin with which you will deal with them,
and they will invariably exhibit the best wares they have. I would meet
men as the friends of all their virtue, and the foes of all their vice,
for no man is the partner of his guilt. If you suspect me you will never
see me, but all our intercourse will be the politest leave-taking;
I shall constantly defer and apologize, and postpone myself in your
presence. The self-defender is accursed in the sight of gods and men; he
is a superfluous knight, who serves no lady in the land. He will find
in the end that he has been fighting windmills, and battered his mace
to no purpose. The injured man with querulous tone resisting his fate
is like a tree struck by lightning, which rustles its sere leaves the
winter through, not having vigor enough [to] cast them off.

As for apologies, I must be off with the dew and the frost, and leave
mankind to repair the damage with their gauze screens and straw.

       *       *       *       *       *

Resistance is a very wholesome and delicious morsel at times. When Venus
advanced against the Greeks with resistless valor, it was by far the
most natural attitude into which the poet could throw his hero to make
him resist heroically. To a devil one might yield gracefully, but a god
would be a worthy foe, and would pardon the affront.

       *       *       *       *       *

It would be worth while, once for all, fairly and cleanly to tell how
we are to be used, as vendors of lucifer matches send directions in the
envelope, both how light may be readily procured and no accident happen
to the user.

       *       *       *       *       *

Let your mood determine the form of salutation, and approach the
creature with a natural nonchalance, as though he were anything but what
he is, and you were anything but what you are,—as though he were he,
and you were you; in short, as though he were so insignificant that it
did not signify, and so important that it did not import. Depend upon
it, the timber is well seasoned and tough, and will bear rough usage;
and if it should crack, there is plenty more where it came from. I am no
piece of china-ware that cannot be jostled against my neighbor, without
danger of rupture from the collision, and must needs ring a scrannel
strain to the end of my days when once I am cracked; but rather one of
the old-fashioned wooden trenchers, which one while stands at the head
of the table, and at another is a milking-stool, and at another a seat
for children, and finally goes down to its grave not unadorned with
honorable scars, and does not die till it is _worn_ out. Use me, for I
am useful in my way. I stand as one of many petitioners, from toadstool
and henbane up to dahlia and violet, supplicating to be put to my use,
if by any means ye may find me serviceable; whether for a medicated
drink or bath, as balm and lavender; or for fragrance, as verbena and
geranium; or for sight, as cactus; or for thoughts, as pansy.[200]


_Jan. 29._ There is something proudly thrilling in the thought that this
obedience to conscience and trust in God, which is so solemnly preached
in extremities and arduous circumstances, is only to retreat to one's
self, and rely on our own strength. In trivial circumstances I find
myself sufficient to myself, and in the most momentous I have no ally
but myself, and must silently put by their harm by my own strength, as I
did the former. As my own hand bent aside the willow in my path, so must
my single arm put to flight the devil and his angels. God is not our
ally when we shrink, and neuter when we are bold. If by trusting in God
you lose any particle of your vigor, trust in Him no longer. When you
trust, do not lay aside your armor, but put it on and buckle it tighter.
If by reliance on the gods I have disbanded one of my forces, then was
it poor policy. I had better have retained the most inexperienced tyro
who had straggled into the camp, and let go the heavenly alliance. I
cannot afford to relax discipline because God is on my side, for He
is on the side of discipline. And if the gods were only the heavens I
fought under, I would not care if they stormed or were calm. I do not
want a countenance, but a help. And there is more of God and divine help
in a man's little finger than in idle prayer and trust.

       *       *       *       *       *

The best and bravest deed is that which the whole man—heart, lungs,
hands, fingers, and toes—at any time prompts. Each hanger-on in the
purlieus of the camp, must strike his standard at the signal from the
Prætorian tent, and fall into the line of march; but if a single sutler
delay to make up his pack, then suspect the fates and consult the omens
again. This is the meaning of integrity; this is to be an integer, and
not a fraction. Be even for all virtuous ends, but odd for all vice. Be
a perfect power, so that any of your roots multiplied into itself may
give the whole again.

       *       *       *       *       *

Beauty is compared, not measured, for it is the creature of proportions,
not of size. Size must be subdued to it. It is hard for a tall or a
short person to be beautiful.

To graft the Persian lilac on the ash, is as if you were to splice the
thigh-bones of the Venus de Medici.

       *       *       *       *       *

Friends will have to be introduced each time they meet. They will
be eternally strange to one another, and when they have mutually
appropriated their value for the last hour, they will go and gather
a new measure of strangeness for the next. They are like two boughs
crossed in the wood, which play backwards and forwards upon one another
in the wind, and only wear into each other, but never the sap of the
one flows into the pores of the other, for then the wind would no more
draw from them those strains which enchanted the wood. They are not two
united, but rather one divided.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of all strange and unaccountable things this journalizing is the
strangest. It will allow nothing to be predicated of it; its good is not
good, nor its bad bad. If I make a huge effort to expose my innermost
and richest wares to light, my counter seems cluttered with the meanest
homemade stuffs; but after months or years I may discover the wealth
of India, and whatever rarity is brought overland from Cathay, in
that confused heap, and what perhaps seemed a festoon of dried apple
or pumpkin will prove a string of Brazilian diamonds, or pearls from
Coromandel.

       *       *       *       *       *

Men lie behind the barrier of a relation as effectually concealed as the
landscape by a mist; and when at length some unforeseen accident throws
me into a new attitude to them, I am astounded, as if for the first time
I saw the sun on the hillside. They lie out before me like a new order
of things. As, when the master meets his pupil as a man, then first do
we stand under the same heavens, and master and pupil alike go down the
resistless ocean stream together.


_Jan. 30. Saturday._ Far over the fields, between the tops of yonder
wood, I see a slight cloud not larger than the vapor from a kettle,
drifting by its own inward purpose in a direction contrary to the
planet. As it flits across the dells and defiles of the tree-tops, now
seen, then lost beyond a pine, I am curious to know wherein its will
resides, for to my eye it has no heart, nor lungs, nor brain, nor any
interior and private chamber which it may inhabit.

Its motion reminds me of those lines of Milton:—

     "As when far off at sea a fleet descried
     Hangs in the clouds, by equinoctial winds
     Close sailing from Bengala, or the isles
     Of Ternate and Tidore, whence merchants bring
     Their spicy drugs; they on the trading flood,
     Ply stemming nightly toward the pole."

The snow collects upon the plumes of the pitch pine in the form of
a pineapple, which if you divide in the middle will expose three red
kernels like the tamarind-stone. So does winter with his mock harvest
jeer at the sincerity of summer. The tropical fruits, which will not
bear the rawness of our summer, are imitated in a thousand fantastic
shapes by the whimsical genius of winter.

       *       *       *       *       *

In winter the warmth comes directly from the sun, and is not radiated
from the earth. In summer I forget to bless the sun for his heat; but
when I feel his beams on my back as I thread some snowy dale, I am
grateful as for a special kindness which would not be weary of well
doing but had pursued me even into that by-place.

       *       *       *       *       *

When the wind blows, the fine snow comes filtering down through all the
aisles of the wood in a golden cloud.

       *       *       *       *       *

The trees covered with snow admit a very plain and clean light, but
not brilliant, as if through windows of ground glass; a sort of white
darkness it is, all of the sun's splendor that can be retained.

       *       *       *       *       *

The fashions of the wood are more fluctuating than those of Paris; snow,
rime, ice, green and dry leaves incessantly make new patterns. There are
all the shapes and hues of the kaleidoscope and the designs and ciphers
of books of heraldry in the outlines of the trees. Every time I see a
nodding pine-top, it seems as if a new fashion of wearing plumes had
come into vogue.

       *       *       *       *       *

I saw a team come out of a path in the woods, as though it had never
gone in, but belonged there, and only came out like Elisha's bears. It
was wholly of the village, and not at all of the wood.

       *       *       *       *       *

These particles of snow which the early wind shakes down are what is
stirring, or the morning news of the wood. Sometimes it is blown up
above the trees, like the sand of the desert.

       *       *       *       *       *

You glance up these paths, closely imbowered by bent trees, as through
the side aisles of a cathedral, and expect to hear a choir chanting from
their depths. You are never so far in them as they are far before you.
Their secret is where you are not and where your feet can never carry
you.

       *       *       *       *       *

I tread in the tracks of the fox which has gone before me by some hours,
or which perhaps I have started, with such a tiptoe of expectation as if
I were on the trail of the Spirit itself which resides in these woods,
and expected soon to catch it in its lair.[201]

       *       *       *       *       *

The snow falls on no two trees alike, but the forms it assumes are as
various as those of the twigs and leaves which receive it. They are,
as it were, predetermined by the genius of the tree. So one divine
spirit descends alike on all, but bears a peculiar fruit in each. The
divinity subsides on all men, as the snowflakes settle on the fields and
ledges and takes the form of the various clefts and surfaces on which
it lodges.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here is the distinct trail of a fox stretching [a] quarter of a mile
across the pond. Now I am curious to know what has determined its
graceful curvatures, its greater or less spaces and distinctness, and
how surely they were coincident with the fluctuations of some mind,
why they now lead me two steps to the right, and then three to the
left. If these things are not to be called up and accounted for in the
Lamb's Book of Life, I shall set them down for careless accountants.
Here was one expression of the divine mind this morning. The pond was
his journal, and last night's snow made a _tabula rasa_ for him. I know
which way a mind wended this morning, what horizon it faced, by the
setting of these tracks; whether it moved slowly or rapidly, by the
greater or less intervals and distinctness, for the swiftest step leaves
yet a lasting trace.[202]

       *       *       *       *       *

Sometimes I come out suddenly upon a high plain, which seems to be the
upper level and true surface of the earth, and by its very baldness
aspires and lies up nearer to the stars,—a place where a decalogue might
be let down or a saint translated.

       *       *       *       *       *

I take a horse and oxen, standing among the wood-piles in the forest,
for one of them, and when at length the horse pricks his ears, and I
give him another name, where's the difference? I am startled by the
possibility of such errors, and the indifference with [which] they are
allowed to occur.

       *       *       *       *       *

Fair Haven Pond is _scored_ with the trails of foxes, and you may see
where they have gambolled and gone through a hundred evolutions, which
testify to a singular listlessness and leisure in nature.

Suddenly, looking down the river, I saw a fox some sixty rods off,
making across to the hills on my left. As the snow lay five inches deep,
he made but slow progress, but it was no impediment to me. So, yielding
to the instinct of the chase, I tossed my head aloft and bounded away,
snuffing the air like a fox-hound, and spurning the world and the Humane
Society at each bound. It seemed the woods rang with the hunter's
horn, and Diana and all the satyrs joined in the chase and cheered
me on. Olympian and Elean youths were waving palms on the hills. In
the meanwhile I gained rapidly on the fox; but he showed a remarkable
presence of mind, for, instead of keeping up the face of the hill, which
was steep and unwooded in that part, he kept along the slope in the
direction of the forest, though he lost ground by it. Notwithstanding
his fright, he took no step which was not beautiful. The course on his
part was a series of most graceful curves. It was a sort of leopard
canter, I should say, as if he were nowise impeded by the snow, but
were husbanding his strength all the while. When he doubled I wheeled
and cut him off, bounding with fresh vigor, and Antæus-like, recovering
my strength each time I touched the snow. Having got near enough for a
fair view, just as he was slipping into the wood, I gracefully yielded
him the palm. He ran as though there were not a bone in his back,
occasionally dropping his muzzle to the snow for a rod or two, and then
tossing his head aloft when satisfied of his course. When he came to a
declivity he put his fore feet together and slid down it like a cat. He
trod so softly that you could not have heard it from any nearness, and
yet with such expression that it would not have been quite inaudible at
any distance. So, hoping this experience would prove a useful lesson to
him, I returned to the village by the highway of the river.[203]

       *       *       *       *       *

There is all the romance of my youthfulest moment in music. Heaven lies
about us, as in our infancy. There is nothing so wild and extravagant
that it does not make true. It makes a dream my only real experience,
and prompts faith to such elasticity that only the incredible can
satisfy it. It tells me again to trust the remotest and finest, as the
divinest, instinct. All that I have imagined of heroism, it reminds
and reassures me of. It is a life unlived, a life beyond life, where at
length my years will pass. I look under the lids of Time.


_Jan. 31. Sunday._ At each step man measures himself against the system.
If he cannot actually belay the sun and make it fast to this planet,
yet the British man alone spins a yarn in one year which will reach
fifty-one times the distance from the earth to the sun. So, having his
cable ready twisted and coiled, the fixed stars are virtually within
his grasp. He carries his lasso coiled at his saddle bow, but is never
forced to cast it.

All things are subdued to me by virtue of that coiled lasso I carry,
and I lead them without the trouble of a cast. It is the rope that lies
coiled on the deck, which moors my ship, and I have never to bend a
cable.

In God's hall hang cables of infinite length, and in His entries stand
bars of infinite strength; but those cables were never bent, nor those
bars ever poised, for all things have been subdued to the divinity from
the first, and these are the seals of His power.

The guilty never escape, for a steed stands ever ready saddled and
bridled at God's door, and the sinner surrenders at last.


_End of my Journal of 396 pages._


_Feb. 2. Tuesday._ It is easy to repeat, but hard to originate. Nature
is readily made to repeat herself in a thousand forms, and in the
daguerreotype her own light is amanuensis, and the picture too has more
than a surface significance,—a depth equal to the prospect,—so that the
microscope may be applied to the one as the spy-glass to the other. Thus
we may easily multiply the forms of the outward; but to give the within
outwardness, that is not easy.

That an impression may be taken, perfect stillness, though but for an
instant, is necessary. There is something analogous in the birth of all
rhymes.

Our sympathy is a gift whose value we can never know, nor when we impart
it. The instant of communion is when, for the least point of time, we
cease to oscillate, and coincide in rest by as fine a point as a star
pierces the firmament.

       *       *       *       *       *

The stars are the mountain peaks of celestial countries.

       *       *       *       *       *

A child asked its father what became of the old moon, and he said it
was cut up into stars.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is always a single ear in the audience, to which we address
ourselves.

       *       *       *       *       *

How much does it concern you, the good opinion of your friend? Therein
is the measure of fame. For the herd of men multiplied many times will
never come up to the value of one friend. In this society there is no
fame but love; for as our name may be on the lips of men, so are we in
each other's hearts. There is no ambition but virtue; for why should we
go round about, who may go direct?

All those contingencies which the philanthropist, statesman, and
housekeeper write so many books to meet are simply and quietly settled
in the intercourse of friends.

       *       *       *       *       *

For our aspirations there is no expression as yet, but if we obey
steadily, by another year we shall have learned the language of last
year's aspirations.

       *       *       *       *       *

When I read the other day the weight of some of the generals of the
Revolution, it seemed no unimportant fact in their biography. It is at
least one other means of comparing ourselves with them. Tell me how much
Milton or Shakespeare weighed, and I will get weighed myself, that I
may know better what they are to me.

Weight has something very imposing in it, for we cannot get rid of it.
Once in the scales we must weigh. And are we not always in the scales,
and weighing just our due, though we kick the beam, and do all we can
to heavy or lighten ourselves?


_Feb. 3. Wednesday._ The present seems never to get its due; it is the
least obvious,—neither before, nor behind, but within us. All the past
plays into this moment, and we are what we are. My aspiration is one
thing, my reflection another, but, over all, myself and condition is
and does. To men and nature I am each moment a finished tool,—a spade,
a barrow, or a pickaxe. This immense promise is no _efficient_ quality.
For all practical purposes I am done.

When we do a service to our neighbor, we serve our next neighbor.

       *       *       *       *       *

We are constantly invited to be what we are; as to something worthy and
noble. I never waited but for myself to come round; none ever detained
me, but I lagged or tagged after myself.

       *       *       *       *       *

It steads us to be as true to children and boors as to God himself. It
is the only attitude which will suit all occasions; it only will make
the earth yield her increase, and by it do we effectually expostulate
with the wind. If I run against a post, this is the remedy. I would
meet the morning and evening on very sincere ground. When the sun
introduces me to a new day, I silently say to myself, "Let us be
faithful all round; we will do justice and receive it." Something
like this is the secret charm of Nature's demeanor toward us, strict
conscientiousness [?] and disregard of us when we have ceased to have
regard for ourselves. So she can never offend us. How true she is!—and
never swerves. In her most genial moment her laws are as steadfastly
and relentlessly fulfilled—though the decalogue is rhymed and set to
sweetest music—as in her sternest.

       *       *       *       *       *

Any exhibition of affection—as an inadvertent word, or act, or
look—seems premature, as if the time were not ripe for it; like the buds
which the warm days near the end of winter cause to push out and unfold
before the frosts are yet gone.

       *       *       *       *       *

My life must seem as if it were passing at a higher level than that
which I occupy. It must possess a dignity which will not allow me to be
familiar.

       *       *       *       *       *

The unpretending truth of a simile implies sometimes such distinctness
in the conception as only experience could have supplied. Homer could
not improve the simile of a soldier who was careful enough to tell the
truth. If he knows what it was, he will know what it was like.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the ancient Britons were exhibited in Rome in their native costume,
and the Dacian came to display his swordsmanship in the arena, so
Tyrolese peasants have come farther yet, even from the neighborhood of
Rome to Concord, for our entertainment this night.


_Feb. 4. Thursday._ When you are once comfortably seated at a public
meeting, there is something unmanly in the sitting on tiptoe and _qui
vive_ attitude,—the involuntarily rising into your throat, as if gravity
had ceased to operate,—when a lady approaches, with quite godlike
presumption, to elicit the miracle of a seat where none is.

       *       *       *       *       *

Music will make the most nervous chord vibrate healthily.

       *       *       *       *       *

Such a state of unrest becomes only a fluttered virtue. When once I have
learned my place in the sphere, I will fill it once for all, rather
like a fixed star than a planet. I will rest as the mountains do, so
that your ladies might as well walk into the midst of the Tyrol, and
look for Nature to spread them a green lawn for their disport in the
midst of those solemn fastnesses, as that I should fly out of my orbit
at their approach and go about eccentric, like a comet, to endanger
other systems. No, be true to your instincts, and sit; wait till you can
be genuinely polite, if it be till doomsday, and not lose your chance
everlastingly by a cowardly yielding to young etiquette. By your look
say unto them, The lines have fallen to me in pleasant places, and I
will fill that station God has assigned me. As well Miss Cassiopeia up
there might ask the brazen-fronted Taurus to draw in his horns, that
she might shine in his stead. No, no! not till my cycle is completed.

How is it that motion will always find space to move in, and rest a
seat? Men hate antagonism, and the weaker will always yield to the
stronger. If a stranger enter with sufficient determination into a
crowded assembly, as if commissioned by the gods to find a seat there,
as the falling stone by a divine impulse seeks a resting-place, each
one will rise without thinking to offer his place. Now we have only to
be commissioned to sit, and depend upon it the gods will not balk their
own work. Ye came one day too late, as did the poet after the world
had been divided, and so returned to dwell with the god that sent him.
When presumptuous womanhood demands to surrender my position, I bide my
time,—though it be with misgiving,—and yield to no mortal shove, but
expect a divine impulse. Produce your warrant, and I will retire; for
not now can I give you a clear seat, but must leave part of my manhood
behind and wander a diminished man, who at length will not have length
and breadth enough to fill any seat at all. It was very kind in the gods
who gave us a now condition, or condition of rest, in which we might
unhurriedly deliberate before taking a step. When I give up my now and
here without having secured my then and there, I am the prodigal son of
a kind father and deserve no better than the husks which the swine eat,
nor that the fatted calf be killed for me.

Rest forever. When instinct comes to the rescue of your politeness, it
will seat you securely still, though it be to hang by a rail or poise
yourself on a stick. To do otherwise is to be polite only as the soldier
who runs away when the enemy demands his post. Politeness is rather
when the generals interchange civilities before the fight, not when one
returns a sword after the victory.

       *       *       *       *       *

Not only in his cunning hand and brain, but when he speaks, too, does
man assert his superiority. He conquers the spaces with his voice, as
well as the lion. The voice of a strong man modulated to the cadence
of some tune is more imposing than any natural sound. The keeper's is
the most commanding, and is heard over all the din of the menagerie. A
strong, musical voice imposes a new order and harmony upon nature; from
it as a centre the law is promulgated to the universe. What it lacks
in volume and loudness may always be made up in musical expression and
distinctness. The brute growls to secure obedience; he threatens. The
man speaks as though obedience were already secured.

       *       *       *       *       *

Brave speaking is the most entire and richest sacrifice to the gods.


_Feb. 5. Friday._ Only on rare occasions am I reminded that man too has
a voice, as well as birds and quadrupeds, which breaks on the stillness
of nature with its peculiar accent. The least sound pervades and
subdues all space to it as long as it fills my ear. Contrasted single
with the silence, it is as wide as it. Music is the crystallization of
sound. There is something in the effect of a harmonious voice upon the
disposition of its neighborhood analogous to the law of crystals; it
centralizes itself and sounds like the published law of things. If the
law of the universe were to be audibly promulgated, no mortal lawgiver
would suspect it, for it would be a finer melody than his ears ever
attended to. It would be sphere music.[204]

       *       *       *       *       *

When by tutoring their voices singers enhance one another's performance,
the harmony is more complete and essential than is heard. The quire is
one family held together by a very close bond. Hence the romance we
associate with Gypsies and circus companies and strolling musicians.
The idea of brotherhood is so strong in them. Their society is ideal
for that one end.

There is something in this brotherhood—this feeling of kind, or
kindness—which insensibly elevates the subjects of it in our eyes.
However poor or mean, they have something which counterbalances our
contempt. This is that in the strolling pauper _family_ which does
not court our charity but can even bless and smile on us and make the
kindness reciprocal. It sanctifies the place and the hour.

These Rainers, if they are not brothers and sisters, must be uncles and
cousins at least. These Swiss who have come to sing to us, we have no
doubt are the flower of the Tyrol.[205] Such is the instinctive kindness
with which the foreigner is always received, that he is ever presumed
to be the fairest and noblest of his race. The traveller finds that it
is not easy to move away from his friends, after all, but all people
whom he visits are anxious to supply the place to him of his parents
and brothers and sisters. To these Swiss I find that I have attributed
all Tell's patriotism and the devotion of Arnold Winkelried and whatever
goodness or greatness belongs to the nation.

       *       *       *       *       *

All costume off a man, when not simply doffed, is grotesque. There
must be a heart inside it. When these Swiss appear before me in gaiters
and high-crowned hats with feathers, I am disposed to laugh, but soon
I see that their serious eye becomes these and they it. It is the
sincere life passed within it which consecrates the costume of any
people. A sufficiently sober eye will retrieve itself and subordinate
any grotesqueness. Let Harlequin be taken with a fit of the colic in
the midst of his buffoonery, and his trappings and finery will serve
that mood too and with their drooping sympathy enhance the sincerity of
his misfortune. When the soldier is hit by a cannon-ball, rags are as
becoming as purple.[206] So soon as a man engages to eat, drink, sleep,
walk, and sit, and meet all the contingencies of life therein, his
costume is hallowed and a theme for poetry, whether it be a bear's skin
or ermine, a beaver hat or a Turkish turban. He will not wear anything
because it is blue, or black, or round, or square, but from a necessity
which cannot be superseded.

I look into the face and manners for something familiar and homely even,
to be assured that the costume of the foreigner is not whimsical or
finical.

       *       *       *       *       *

In all emergencies there is always one step which you may take on firm
ground where gravity will assure you footing. So you hold a draft on
Fate payable at sight.


_Feb. 6. Saturday._ One may discover a new side to his most intimate
friend when for the first time he hears him speak in public. He will
be stranger to him as he is more familiar to the audience. The longest
intimacy could not foretell how he would behave then. When I observe my
friend's conduct toward others, then chiefly I learn the traits in his
character, and in each case I am unprepared for the issue.

When one gets up to address briefly a strange audience, in that little
he may have opportunity to say he will not quite do himself injustice.
For he will instantly and instinctively average himself to his audience,
and while he is true to his own character still, he will in a few
moments make that impression which a series of months and years would
but expand. Before he answers, his thought like lightning runs round the
whole compass of his experiences, and he is scrupulous to speak from
that which he is and with a more entire truthfulness than usual. How
little do we know each other then! Who can tell how his friend would
behave on any occasion?

       *       *       *       *       *

As for those Swiss, I think of the fields their hands have plowed and
reaped, and respect their costume as the memorial or rather cotemporary
and witness of this. What is there in a toga but a Roman? What but a
Quaker in a broad-brimmed hat? He who describes the dress of a Janizary
going to war does me a similar service as when he paints the scenery of
the battle-field. It helps make his exploit picturesque.

Costume is not determined by whim, not even the tattooing and paint
of the savage. Sun, wind, rain, and the form of our bodies shape our
hats and coats for us, more even than taste. Good taste secures the
utmost gratification without sacrificing any conveniences. If all
nations derived their fashions from Paris or London, the world would
seem like a Vanity Fair or all fools' day, and the Tartar and Bedouin
ride in it like jesters in a circus, and the Pawnee and Esquimau
hunt in masquerade. What I am must make you forget what I wear. The
fashionable world is content to be eclipsed by its dress, and never will
bear the contrast. Only industry will reform _their_ dress. They are
idle,—_exo_strious, building without.

       *       *       *       *       *

The value of the recess in any public entertainment consists in the
opportunity for self-recovery which it offers. We who have been swayed
as one heart, expanding and contracting with the common pulse, find
ourselves in the interim, and set us up again, and feel our own hearts
beating in our breasts. We are always a little astonished to see a man
walking across the room, through an attentive audience, with any degree
of self-possession. He makes himself strange to us. He is a little
stubborn withal, and seems to say, "I am self-sustained and independent
as well as the performer, and am not to be swallowed up in the common
enthusiasm. No, no, there are two of us, and John's as good as Thomas."
In the recess the audience is cut up into a hundred little coteries,
and as soon as each individual life has recovered its tone and the
purposes of health have been answered, it is time for the performances
to commence again.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a public performer, the simplest actions, which at other times are
left to unconscious nature, as the ascending a few steps in front of an
audience, acquire a fatal importance and become arduous deeds.

       *       *       *       *       *

When I select one here and another there, and strive to join sundered
thoughts, I make but a partial heap after all. Nature strews her nuts
and flowers broadcast, and never collects them into heaps. A man does
not tell us all he has thought upon truth or beauty at a sitting, but,
from his last thought on the subject, wanders through a varied scenery
of upland, meadow, and woodland to his next. Sometimes a single and
casual thought rises naturally and inevitably with a queenly majesty and
escort, like the stars in the east. Fate has surely enshrined it in this
hour and circumstances for some purpose. What she has joined together,
let not man put asunder. Shall I transplant the primrose by the river's
brim, to set it beside its sister on the mountain? _This_ was the soil
it grew in, _this_ the hour it bloomed in. If sun, wind, and rain came
_here_ to cherish and expand it, shall not we come here to pluck it?
Shall we require it to grow in a conservatory for our convenience?

       *       *       *       *       *

I feel slightly complimented when Nature condescends to make use of me
without my knowledge, as when I help scatter her seeds in my walk, or
carry burs and cockles on my clothes from field to field.[207] I feel
as though I had done something for the commonweal, and were entitled
to board and lodging. I take such airs upon me as the boy who holds a
horse for the circus company, whom all the spectators envy.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Lu ral lu ral lu" may be more impressively sung than very respectable
wisdom talked. It is well-timed, as wisdom is not always.

       *       *       *       *       *

All things prophesy but the prophet. In augury and divination nature
is put to the torture. In Ben Jonson's tragedy of "Catiline," Lentulus
makes answer to Catiline, who has bribed the augurs to say that he is
that third Cornelius who is to be king of Rome, "All prophecies, you
know, suffer the torture." He who inspects the entrails is _always_
bribed, but they are unbribable. He who seeks to know the future by
unlawful means has unavoidably subjected the oracle to the torture of
_private_ and _partial_ interests. The oracles of God serve the public
interest without fee. To the just and benevolent mind nature _declares_,
as the sun lights the world.


_Feb. 7. Sunday._ Without greatcoat or drawers I have advanced thus
far into the snow-banks of the winter, without thought and with
impunity.[208] When I meet my neighbors in muffs and furs and tippets,
they look as if they had retreated into the interior fastnesses from
some foe invisible to me. They remind me that this is the season of
winter, in which it becomes a man to be cold. For feeling, I am a piece
of clean wood of this shape, which will do service till it rots, and
though the cold has its physical effect on me, it is a kindly one, for
it "finds its acquaintance there." My diet is so little stimulating,
and my body in consequence so little heated, as to excite no antagonism
in nature, but flourishes like a tree, which finds even the winter
genial to its expansion and the secretion of sap. May not the body
defend itself against cold by its very nakedness, and its elements be
so simple and single that they cannot congeal? Frost does not affect
one but several. My body now affords no more pasture for cold than a
leafless twig.[209] I call it a protestant warmth. My limbs do not tire
as formerly, but I use myself as any other piece of nature, and from
mere indifference and thoughtlessness may break the timber.

It is the vice of the last season which compels us to arm ourselves for
the next. If man always conformed to Nature, he would not have to defend
himself against her, but find her his constant nurse and friend, as do
plants and quadrupeds.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the sunshine and the crowing of cocks I feel an illimitable holiness,
which makes me bless God and myself. The warm sun casts his incessant
gift at my feet as I walk along, unfolding his yellow worlds. Yonder
sexton with a few cheap sounds makes me richer than these who mind his
summons. The true gift is as wide as my gratitude, and as frequent, and
the donor is as grateful as the recipient. There would be a New Year's
gift indeed, if we would bestow on each other our sincerity. We should
communicate our wealth, and not purchase that which does not belong to
us for a sign. Why give each other a sign to keep? If we gave the thing
itself, there would be no need of a sign.

       *       *       *       *       *

I am not sure I should find out a really great person soon. He would be
simple Thomas or Oliver for some centuries first. The lesser eminences
would hide the higher, and I should at last reach his top by a gentle
acclivity. I felt it would be necessary to remain some weeks at the
Notch to be impressed by the grandeur of the scenery. We do not expect
that Alexander will conquer Asia the first time we are introduced to
him. A great man accepts the occasion the fates offer him. Let us not
be disappointed. We stand at first upon the pampas which surround him.
It is these mountains round about which make the valleys here below. He
is not a dead level, so many feet above low-water mark. Greatness is in
the ascent. But there is no accounting for the little men.

                 "They must sweat no less
     To fit their properties, than t' express their parts."

Or the line before this:—

             "Would you have
     Such an Herculean actor in the scene,
     And not his hydra?"—JONSON.

The eaves are running on the south side of the house; the titmouse
lisps in the poplar; the bells are ringing for church; while the sun
presides over all and makes his simple warmth more obvious than all
else.[210] What shall I do with this hour, so like time and yet so
fit for eternity? Where in me are these russet patches of ground, and
scattered logs and chips in the yard? I do not feel cluttered. I have
some notion what the John's-wort and life-everlasting may be thinking
about when the sun shines on me as on them and turns my prompt thought
into just such a seething shimmer. I lie out indistinct as a heath at
noonday. I am evaporating and ascending into the sun.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nothing stands in the way to success, but to failure. To victory is
all the way up hill; to defeat the simplest wight that weighs may soon
slide down. Cowards would not have victory but the fruits of victory;
but she it is that sweetens all the spoil. Thus, by a just fate, the
booty cannot fall to him who did not win it. There is victory in every
effort. In the least swing of the arm, in indignant thought, in stern
content, we conquer our foes.

       *       *       *       *       *

Great thoughts make great men. Without these no heraldry nor blood will
avail.

The blood circulates to the feet and hands, but the thought never
descends from the head.

       *       *       *       *       *

The most I can do for my friend is simply to be his friend. I have no
wealth to bestow on him. If he knows that I am happy in loving him, he
will want no other reward. Is not Friendship divine in this?

I have myself to respect, but to myself I am not amiable; but my friend
is my amiableness personified.

And yet we walk the stage indifferent actors, not thinking what a
sublime drama we might enact if we would be joint workers and a mutual
material. Why go to the woods to cut timber to display our art upon,
when here are men as trees walking? The world has never learned what men
can build each other up to be, when both master and pupil work in love.

He that comes as a stranger to my house will have to stay as a stranger.
He has made his own reception. But persevering love was never yet
refused.

     "The vicious count their years, virtuous their acts."

                                                   JONSON.

The former consider the length of their service, the latter its quality.

     Wait not till I invite thee, but observe
     I'm glad to see thee when thou com'st.[211]

The most ardent lover holds yet a private court, and his love can never
be so strong or ethereal that there will not be danger that judgment
may be rendered against the beloved.

       *       *       *       *       *

I would have men make a _greater_ use of me.[212] Now I must belittle
myself to have dealings with them. My friend will show such a noble
confidence that I shall aspire to the society of his good opinion. Never
presume men less that you may make them more. So far as we respond to
our ideal estimate of each other do we have profitable intercourse.

       *       *       *       *       *

A brave man always knows the way, no matter how intricate the roads.


_Feb. 8._ All we have experienced is so much gone within us, and there
lies. It is the company we keep. One day, in health or sickness, it will
come out and be remembered. Neither body nor soul forgets anything. The
twig always remembers the wind that shook it, and the stone the cuff it
received. Ask the old tree and the sand.

       *       *       *       *       *

To be of most service to my brother I must meet him on the most equal
and even ground, the platform on which our lives are passing. But how
often does politeness permit this?

       *       *       *       *       *

I seek a man who will appeal to me when I am in fault. We will treat as
gods settling the affairs of men. In his intercourse I shall be always a
god to-day, who was a man yesterday. He will never confound me with my
guilt, but let me be immaculate and hold up my skirts. Differences he
will make haste to clear up, but leave agreements unsettled the while.

       *       *       *       *       *

As time is measured by the lapse of ideas, we may grow of our own force,
as the mussel adds new circles to its shell. My thoughts secrete the
lime. We may grow old with the vigor of youth. Are we not always in
youth so long as we face heaven? We may always live in the morning of
our days. To him who seeks early, the sun never gets over the edge of
the hill, but his rays fall slanting forever. His wise sayings are like
the chopping of wood and crowing of cocks in the dawn.

       *       *       *       *       *

My Journal is that of me which would else spill over and run to waste,
gleanings from the field which in action I reap. I must not live for
it, but in it for the gods. They are my correspondent, to whom daily I
send off this sheet postpaid. I am clerk in their counting-room, and
at evening transfer the account from day-book to ledger. It is as a
leaf which hangs over my head in the path. I bend the twig and write
my prayers on it; then letting it go, the bough springs up and shows
the scrawl to heaven. As if it were not kept shut in my desk, but were
as public a leaf as any in nature. It is papyrus by the riverside;
it is vellum in the pastures; it is parchment on the hills. I find it
everywhere as free as the leaves which troop along the lanes in autumn.
The crow, the goose, the eagle carry my quill, and the wind blows the
leaves as far as I go. Or, if my imagination does not soar, but gropes
in slime and mud, then I write with a reed.

It is always a chance scrawl, and commemorates some accident,—as great
as earthquake or eclipse. Like the sere leaves in yonder vase, these
have been gathered far and wide. Upland and lowland, forest and field
have been ransacked.

       *       *       *       *       *

In our holiest moment our devil with a leer stands close at hand. He
is a very busy devil. It gains vice some respect, I must confess, thus
to be reminded how indefatigable it is. It has at least the merit of
industriousness. When I go forth with zeal to some good work, my devil
is sure to get his robe tucked up the first and arrives there as soon
as I, with a look of sincere earnestness which puts to shame my best
intent. He is as forward as I to a good work, and as disinterested. He
has a winning way of recommending himself by making himself useful. How
readily he comes into my best project, and does his work with a quiet
and steady cheerfulness which even virtue may take pattern from.

I never was so rapid in my virtue but my vice kept up with me. It always
came in by a hand, and never panting, but with a curried coolness
halted, as if halting were the beginning not the end of the course.
It only runs the swifter because it has no rider. It never was behind
me but when I turned to look and so fell behind myself. I never did a
charitable thing but there he stood, scarce in the rear, with hat in
hand, partner on the same errand, ready to share the smile of gratitude.
Though I shut the door never so quick and tell it to stay at home like
a good dog, it will out with me, for I shut in my own legs so, and it
escapes in the meanwhile and is ready to back and reinforce me in most
virtuous deeds. And if I turn and say, "Get thee behind me," he then
indeed turns too and takes the lead, though he seems to retire with a
pensive and compassionate look, as much as to say, "Ye know not what ye
do."

Just as active as I become to virtue, just so active is my remaining
vice. Every time we teach our virtue a new nobleness, we teach our vice
a new cunning. When we sharpen the blade it will stab better as well
as whittle. The scythe that cuts will cut our legs. We are double-edged
blades, and every time we whet our virtue the return stroke straps our
vice. And when we cut a clear descending blow, our vice on t'other edge
rips up the work. Where is the skillful swordsman that can draw his
blade straight back out of the wound?[213]

Every man proposes fairly, and does not willfully take the devil for his
guide; as our shadows never fall between us and the sun. Go towards the
sun and your shadow will fall behind you.


_Feb. 9. Tuesday._

     "_Cato._ Good Marcus Tullius (which is more than great),
              Thou hadst thy education with the gods."

                                                      JONSON.

Better be defamed than overpraised. Thou canst then justly praise
thyself. What notoriety art thou that can be defamed? Who can be praised
for what they are not deserve rather to be damned for what they are. It
is hard to wear a dress that is too long and loose without stumbling.

                             "Whoe'er is raised,
     For wealth he has not, he is tax'd, not prais'd,"

says Jonson. If you mind the flatterer, you rob yourself and still cheat
him. The fates never exaggerate; men pass for what they are. The state
never fails to get a revenue out of you without a direct tax. Flattery
would lay a direct tax. What I am praised for what I am not I put to
the account of the gods. It needs a skillful eye to distinguish between
their coin and my own. But however there can be no loss either way, for
what meed I have earned is equally theirs. Let neither fame nor infamy
hit you, but the one go as far beyond as the other falls behind. Let
the one glance past you to the gods, and the other wallow where it was
engendered. The home thrusts are at helmets upon blocks, and my worst
foes but stab an armor through.

       *       *       *       *       *

My life at this moment is like a summer morning when birds are singing.
Yet that is false, for nature's is an idle pleasure in comparison: my
hour has a more solid serenity. I have been breaking silence these
twenty-three years and have hardly made a rent in it. Silence has
no end; speech is but the beginning of it. My friend thinks I _keep_
silence, who am only choked with letting it out so fast. Does he forget
that new mines of secrecy are constantly opening in me?

       *       *       *       *       *

If any scorn your love, let them see plainly that you serve not them
but another. If these bars are up, go your way to other of God's
pastures, and browse there the while. When your host shuts his door on
you he incloses you in the dwelling of nature. He thrusts you over the
threshold of the world. My foes restore me to my friends.

       *       *       *       *       *

I might say friendship had no ears as love has no eyes, for no word
is evidence in its court. The least act fulfills more than all words
profess. The most gracious speech is but partial kindness, but the least
genuine deed takes the whole man. If we had waited till doomsday it
could never have been uttered.


_Feb. 10. Wednesday._ That was fine praise which Ben Jonson gave to
Thomas, Lord Chancellor:—

     "Whilst thou art certain to thy words, once gone,
     As is thy conscience, which is always one."

Words do not lose their truth by time or misinterpretation, but stand
unscathed longer than he who spoke them.

Let our words be such as we may unblushingly behold sculptured in
granite on the walls to the least syllable. Our thoughts and actions
may be very private for a long time, for they demand a more catholic
publicity to be displayed in than the world can afford. Our best deeds
shun the narrow walks of men, and are not ambitious of the faint light
the world can shed on them, but delight to unfold themselves in that
public ground between God and conscience.

Truth has for audience and spectator all the world. Within, where I
resolve and deal with principles, there is more space and room than
anywhere without, where my hands execute. Men should hear of your virtue
only as they hear the creaking of the earth's axle and the music of
the spheres. It will fall into the course of nature and be effectually
concealed by publicness.

       *       *       *       *       *

I asked a man to-day if he would rent me some land, and he said he had
four acres as good soil "as any outdoors." It was a true poet's account
of it. He and I, and all the world, went outdoors to breathe the free
air and stretch ourselves. For the world is but outdoors,—and we duck
behind a panel.


_Feb. 11._ True help, for the most part, implies a greatness in him who
is to be helped as well as in the helper. It takes a god to be helped
even. A great person, though unconsciously, will constantly give you
great opportunities to serve him, but a mean one will quite preclude
all active benevolence. It needs but simply and _greatly_ to want it for
once, that all true men may contend who shall be foremost to render aid.
My neighbor's state must pray to heaven so devoutly yet disinterestedly
as he never prayed in words, before my ears can hear. It must ask
divinely. But men so cobble and botch their request, that you must stoop
as low as they to give them aid. Their meanness would drag down your
deed to be a compromise with conscience, and not leave it to be done on
the high table-land of the benevolent soul. They would have you doff
your bright and knightly armor and drudge for them,—serve _them_ and
not God. But if I am to serve them I must not serve the devil.

What is called charity is no charity, but the interference of a
third person. Shall I interfere with fate? Shall I defraud man of the
opportunities which God gave him, and so take away his life? Beggars
and silent poor cry—how often!—"Get between me and my god." I will not
stay to cobble and patch God's rents, but do clean, new work when he
has given me my hands full. This almshouse charity is like putting new
wine into old bottles, when so many tuns in God's cellars stand empty.
We go about mending the times, when we should be building the eternity.

I must serve a strong master, not a weak one. Help implies a sympathy
of energy and effort, else no alleviation will avail.


_Feb. 12. Friday._ Those great men who are unknown to their own
generation are already famous in the society of the great who have gone
before them. All worldly fame but subsides from their high estimate
beyond the stars. We may still keep pace with those who have gone out
of nature, for we run on as smooth ground as they.

The early and the latter saints are separated by no eternal interval.

The child may soon stand face to face with the best father.


_Feb. 13._ By the truthfulness of our story to-day we help explain
ourselves for all our life henceforth. How we hamper and belay ourselves
by the least exaggeration! The truth is God's concern; He will sustain
it; but who can afford to maintain a lie? We have taken away one of the
Pillars of Hercules, and must support the world on our shoulders, who
might have walked freely upon it.

       *       *       *       *       *

My neighbor says that his hill-farm is poor stuff and "only fit to hold
the world together."[214] He deserves that God should give him better
for so brave a treating of his gifts, instead of humbly putting up
therewith. It is a sort of stay, or gore, or gusset, and he will not
be blinded by modesty or gratitude, but sees it for what it is; knowing
his neighbor's fertile land, he calls his by its right name. But perhaps
my farmer forgets that his lean soil has sharpened his wits. This is a
crop it was good for. And beside, you see the heavens at a lesser angle
from the hill than from the vale.

       *       *       *       *       *

We have nothing to fear from our foes; God keeps a standing army for
that service; but we have no ally against our friends, those ruthless
vandals whose kind intent is a subtler poison than the Colchian, a more
fatal shaft than the Lydian.[215]


_Feb. 14. Sunday._ I am confined to the house by bronchitis, and so
seek to content myself with that quiet and serene life there is in a
warm corner by the fireside, and see the sky through the chimney-top.
Sickness should not be allowed to extend further than the body. We
need only to retreat further within us to preserve uninterrupted the
continuity of serene hours to the end of our lives.

As soon as I find my chest is not of tempered steel, and heart of
adamant, I bid good-by to these and look out a new nature. I will be
liable to no accidents.

       *       *       *       *       *

I shall never be poor while I can command a still hour in which to take
leave of my sin.

       *       *       *       *       *

The jingling team which is creaking past reminds me of that verse in
the Bible which speaks of God being heard in the bells of the horses.


_Feb. 15._ There is elevation in every hour. No part of the earth is so
low and withdrawn that the heavens cannot be seen from it, but every
part supports the sky. We have only to stand on the eminence of the
hour, and look out thence into the empyrean, allowing no pinnacle above
us, to command an uninterrupted horizon. The moments will lie outspread
around us like a blue expanse of mountain and valley, while we stand
on the summit of our hour as if we had descended on eagle's wings. For
the eagle has stooped to his perch on the highest cliff and has never
climbed the rock; he stands by his wings more than by his feet. We shall
not want a foothold, but wings will sprout from our shoulders, and we
shall walk securely, self-sustained.

       *       *       *       *       *

For how slight an accident shall two noble souls wait to bring them
together!


_Feb. 17._ Our work should be fitted to and lead on the time, as bud,
flower, and fruit lead the circle of the seasons.

       *       *       *       *       *

The mechanic works no longer than his labor will pay for lights, fuel,
and shop rent. Would it not be well for us to consider if our deed will
warrant the expense of nature? Will it maintain the sun's light?

       *       *       *       *       *

Our actions do not use time independently, as the bud does. They should
constitute its lapse. It is their room. But they shuffle after and serve
the hour.


_Feb. 18. Thursday._ I do not judge men by anything they can do. Their
greatest deed is the impression they make on me. Some serene, inactive
men can do everything. Talent only indicates a depth of character in
some direction. We do not acquire the ability to do new deeds, but a new
capacity for all deeds. My recent growth does not appear in any visible
new talent, but its deed will enter into my gaze when I look into the
sky, or vacancy. It will help me to consider ferns and everlasting. Man
is like a tree which is limited to no age, but grows as long as it has
its root in the ground. We have only to live in the alburnum and not in
the old wood. The gnarled stump has as tender a bud as the sapling.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sometimes I find that I have frequented a higher society during sleep,
and my thoughts and actions proceed on a higher level in the morning.

       *       *       *       *       *

A man is the hydrostatic paradox, the counterpoise of the system. You
have studied flowers and birds cheaply enough, but you must lay yourself
out to buy him.


_Feb. 19._ A truly good book attracts very little favor to itself. It
is so true that it teaches me better than to read it. I must soon lay
it down and commence living on its hint. I do not see how any can be
written more, but this is the last effusion of genius. When I read an
indifferent book, it seems the best thing I can do, but the inspiring
volume hardly leaves me leisure to finish its latter pages. It is
slipping out of my fingers while I read. It creates no atmosphere
in which it may be perused, but one in which its teachings may be
practiced. It confers on me such wealth that I lay it down with the
least regret. What I began by reading I must finish by acting. So I
cannot stay to hear a _good_ sermon and applaud at the conclusion, but
shall be half-way to Thermopylæ before that.

       *       *       *       *       *

When any joke or hoax traverses the Union in the newspapers it apprises
me of a fact which no geography or guide-book contains, of a certain
leisure and nonchalance pervading society. It is a piece of information
from over the Alleghanies, which I know how to prize, though I did
not expect it. And it is just so in Nature. I sometimes observe in
her a strange trifling, almost listlessness, which conducts to beauty
and grace,—the fantastic and whimsical forms of snow and ice, the
unaccountable freaks which the tracks of rabbits exhibit. I know now
why all those busy speculators do not die of fever and ague.

       *       *       *       *       *

Coleridge observed the "landscapes made by damp on a whitewashed wall,"
and so have I.

       *       *       *       *       *

We seem but to linger in manhood to tell the dreams of our childhood,
and they vanish out of memory ere we learn the language.[216]

       *       *       *       *       *

It is the unexplored grandeur of the storm which keeps up the spirits
of the traveller.[217] When I contemplate a hard and bare life in the
woods, I find my last consolation in its untrivialness. Shipwreck is
less distressing because the breakers do not trifle with us. We are
resigned as long as we recognize the sober and solemn mystery of nature.
The dripping mariner finds consolation and sympathy in the infinite
sublimity of the storm. It is a moral force as well as he. With courage
he can lay down his life on the strand, for it never turned a deaf ear
to him, nor has he ever exhausted its sympathy.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the love of narrow souls I make many short voyages, but in vain; I
find no sea-room. But in great souls I sail before the wind without a
watch, and never reach the shore.

       *       *       *       *       *

You demand that I be less your friend that you may know it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nothing will reconcile friends but love. They make a fatal mistake when
they go about like foes to explain and treat with one another. It is a
mutual mistake. None are so unmanageable.


_Feb. 20. Saturday._ I suspect the moral discrimination of the oldest
and best authors. I doubt if Milton distinguished greatly between his
Satan and his Raphael. In Homer and Æschylus and Dante I miss a nice
discrimination of the _important_ shades of character.

       *       *       *       *       *

When I am going out for an evening I arrange the fire in my stove so
that I do not fail to find a good one when I return, though it would
have engaged my frequent attention present. So that, when I know I am to
be at home, I sometimes make believe that I may go out, to save trouble.
And this is the art of living, too,—to leave our life in a condition to
go alone, and not to require a constant supervision. We will then sit
down serenely to live, as by the side of a stove.

When I sit in earnest, nothing must stand, all must be sedentary with me.

       *       *       *       *       *

I hear the faint sound of a viol and voices from the neighboring
cottage, and think to myself, "I will believe the Muse only for
evermore." It assures me that no gleam which comes over the serene soul
is deceptive. It warns me of a reality and substance, of which the best
that I see is but the phantom and shadow. O music, thou tellest me of
things of which memory takes no heed; thy strains are whispered aside
from memory's ear.

This is the noblest plain of earth, over which these sounds are borne,
the plain of Troy or Eleusis.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thou openest all my senses to catch thy least hint, and givest me no
thought. It would be good to sit at my door of summer evenings forever
and hear thy strains. Thou makest me to toy with speech, or walk content
without it, not regretting its absence. I am pleased to think how
ignorant and shiftless the wisest are. My imperfect sympathies with my
friend are cheerful, glimmering light in the valley.


_Feb. 21. Sunday._ It is hard to preserve equanimity and greatness
on that debatable ground between love and esteem. There is nothing so
stable and unfluctuating as love. The waves beat steadfast on its shore
forever, and its tide has no ebb. It is a resource in all extremities,
and a refuge even from itself. And yet love will not be leaned on.


_Feb. 22._ Love is the tenderest mood of that which is tough—and the
toughest mood of that which is tender. It may be roughly handled as the
nettle, or gently as the violet. It has its holidays, but is not made
for them.

       *       *       *       *       *

The whole of the day should not be daytime, nor of the night night-time,
but some portion be rescued from time to oversee time in. All our hours
must not be current; all our time must not lapse. There must be one hour
at least which the day did not bring forth,—of ancient parentage and
long-established nobility,—which will be a serene and lofty platform
overlooking the rest. We should make our notch every day on our
characters, as Robinson Crusoe on his stick. We must be at the helm at
least once a day; we must feel the tiller-rope in our hands, and know
that if we sail, we steer.

       *       *       *       *       *

Friends will be much apart; they will respect more each other's privacy
than their communion, for therein is the fulfillment of our high aims
and the conclusion of our arguments. That we know and would associate
with not only has high intents, but goes on high errands, and has much
private business. The hours he devotes to me were snatched from higher
society. He is hardly a gift level to me, but I have to reach up to take
it. My imagination always assigns him a nobler employment in my absence
than ever I find him engaged in.[218]

We have to go into retirement religiously, and enhance our meeting by
rarity and a degree of unfamiliarity. Would you know why I see thee so
seldom, my friend? In solitude I have been making up a packet for thee.

       *       *       *       *       *

The actions which grow out of some common but natural relations affect
me strangely, as sometimes the behavior of a mother to her children.
So quiet and noiseless an action often moves me more than many sounding
exploits.


_Feb. 23. Tuesday._ Let all our stores and munitions be provided for
the lone state.

       *       *       *       *       *

The care of the body is the highest exercise of prudence. If I
have brought this weakness on my lungs, I will consider calmly and
disinterestedly how the thing came about, that I may find out the truth
and render justice. Then, after patience, I shall be a wiser man than
before.

Let us apply all our wit to the repair of our bodies, as we would mend a
harrow, for the body will be dealt plainly and implicitly with. We want
no moonshine nor surmises about it. This matter of health and sickness
has no fatality in it, but is a subject for the merest prudence.
If I know not what ails me, I may resort to amulets and charms and,
moonstruck, die of dysentery.

We do wrong to slight our sickness and feel so ready to desert our
posts when we are harassed. So much the more should we rise above our
condition, and make the most of it, for the fruit of disease may be as
good as that of health.[219]

       *       *       *       *       *

There is a subtle elixir in society which makes it a fountain of
health to the sick. We want no consolation which is not the overflow
of our friend's health. We will have no condolence who are not dolent
ourselves. We would have our friend come and respire healthily before
us, with the fragrance of many meadows and heaths in his breath, and we
will inhabit his body while our own recruits.

Nothing is so good medicine in sickness as to witness some nobleness in
another which will advertise us of health. In sickness it is our faith
that ails, and noble deeds reassure us.

       *       *       *       *       *

That anybody has thought of you on some indifferent occasion frequently
implies more good will than you had reason to expect. You have
henceforth a higher motive for conduct. We do not know how many amiable
thoughts are current.


_Feb. 26. Friday._ My prickles or smoothness are as much a quality of
your hand as of myself. I cannot tell you what I am, more than a ray
of the summer's sun. What I am I am, and say not. Being is the great
explainer. In the attempt to explain, shall I plane away all the spines,
till it is no thistle, but a cornstalk?

If my world is not sufficient without thee, my friend, I will wait
till it is and then call thee. You shall come to a palace, not to an
almshouse.

       *       *       *       *       *

My homeliest thought, like the diamond brought from farthest within the
mine, will shine with the purest lustre.

Though I write every day, yet when I say a good thing it seems as if I
wrote but rarely.

       *       *       *       *       *

To be great, we do as if we would be tall merely, be longer than we
are broad, stretch ourselves and stand on tiptoe. But greatness is well
proportioned, unstrained, and stands on the soles of the feet.

       *       *       *       *       *

How many are waiting for health and warm weather! But they wait for none.

       *       *       *       *       *

In composition I miss the hue of the mind. As if we could be satisfied
with the dews of the morning and evening without their colors, or the
heavens without their azure.[220]

       *       *       *       *       *

This good book helps the sun shine in my chamber. The rays fall on its
page as if to explain and illustrate it.[221]

       *       *       *       *       *

I who have been sick hear cattle low in the street, with such a healthy
ear as prophesies my cure. These sounds lay a finger on my pulse to
some purpose. A fragrance comes in at all my senses which proclaims
that I am still of Nature the child. The threshing in yonder barn and
the tinkling of the anvil come from the same side of Styx with me. If
I were a physician I would try my patients thus. I would wheel them to
a window and let Nature feel their pulse. It will soon appear if their
sensuous existence is sound. These sounds are but the throbbing of some
pulse in me.[222]

       *       *       *       *       *

Nature seems to have given me these hours to pry into her private
drawers. I watch the shadow of the insensible perspiration rising from
my coat or hand on the wall. I go and feel my pulse in all the recesses
of the house and see if I am of force to carry a homely life and comfort
into them.


_Feb. 27. Saturday._ Life looks as fair at this moment as a summer's
sea, or a blond dress in a saffron light, with its sun and grass and
walled towns so bright and chaste, as fair as my own virtue which
would adventure therein. Like a Persian city or hanging gardens in the
distance, so washed in light, so untried, only to be thridded by clean
thoughts. All its flags are flowing, and tassels streaming, and drapery
flapping, like some gay pavilion. The heavens hang over it like some
low screen, and seem to undulate in the breeze.

Through this pure, unwiped hour, as through a crystal glass, I look out
upon the future, as a smooth lawn for my virtue to disport in. It shows
from afar as unrepulsive as the sunshine upon walls and cities, over
which the passing life moves as gently as a shadow. I see the course
of my life, like some retired road, wind on without obstruction into a
country maze.[223]

I am attired for the future so, as the sun setting presumes all men
at leisure and in contemplative mood,—and am thankful that it is
thus presented blank and indistinct. It still o'ertops my hope. My
future deeds bestir themselves within me and move grandly towards a
consummation, as ships go down the Thames. A steady onward motion I feel
in me, as still as that, or like some vast, snowy cloud, whose shadow
first is seen across the fields. It is the material of all things loose
and set afloat that makes my sea.

These various words are not without various meanings. The combined
voice of the race makes nicer distinctions than any individual. There
are the words "diversion" and "amusement." It takes more to amuse than
to divert. We must be surrendered to our amusements, but only turned
aside to our diversions. We have no will in the former, but oversee
the latter. We are oftenest diverted in the street, but amused in our
chambers. We are diverted from our engagements, but amused when we
are listless. We may be diverted from an amusement, and amused by a
diversion. It often happens that a diversion becomes our amusement, and
our amusement our employment.


_Feb. 28._ Nothing goes by luck in composition. It allows of no tricks.
The best you can write will be the best you are. Every sentence is
the result of a long probation. The author's character is read from
title-page to end. Of this he never corrects the proofs. We read it
as the essential character of a handwriting without regard to the
flourishes. And so of the rest of our actions; it runs as straight as
a ruled line through them all, no matter how many curvets about it. Our
whole life is taxed for the least thing well done; it is its net result.
How we eat, drink, sleep, and use our desultory hours, now in these
indifferent days, with no eye to observe and no occasion [to] excite
us, determines our authority and capacity for the time to come.


_March 3._ I hear a man blowing a horn this still evening, and it sounds
like the plaint of nature in these times. In this, which I refer to
some man, there is something greater than any man. It is as if the earth
spoke. It adds a great remoteness to the horizon, and its very distance
is grand, as when one draws back the head to speak. That which I now
hear in the west seems like an invitation to the east. It runs round the
earth as a whisper gallery. It is the spirit of the West calling to the
spirit of the East, or else it is the rattling of some team lagging in
Day's train. Coming to me through the darkness and silence, all things
great seem transpiring there. It is friendly as a distant hermit's
taper. When it is trilled, or undulates, the heavens are crumpled into
time, and successive waves flow across them.

It is a strangely healthy sound for these disjointed times. It is a
rare soundness when cow-bells and horns are heard from over the fields.
And now I see the beauty and full meaning of that word "sound." Nature
always possesses a certain sonorousness, as in the hum of insects, the
booming of ice, the crowing of cocks in the morning, and the barking of
dogs in the night, which indicates her sound state.[224] God's voice
is but a clear bell sound. I drink in a wonderful health, a cordial,
in sound. The effect of the slightest tinkling in the horizon measures
my own soundness. I thank God for sound; it always mounts, and makes
me mount. I think I will not trouble myself for any wealth, when I can
be so cheaply enriched. Here I contemplate to drudge that I may own a
farm—and may have such a limitless estate for the listening. All good
things are cheap: all bad are very dear.

       *       *       *       *       *

As for these communities, I think I had rather keep bachelor's hall
in hell than go to board in heaven. Do you think your virtue will be
boarded with you? It will never live on the interest of your money,
depend upon it. The boarder has no home. In heaven I hope to bake my
own bread and clean my own linen. The tomb is the only boarding-house
in which a hundred are served at once. In the catacomb we may dwell
together and prop one another without loss.


_March 4._ Ben Jonson says in his epigrams,—

     "He makes himself a thorough-fare of Vice."

This is true, for by vice the substance of a man is not changed, but
all his pores, and cavities, and avenues are prophaned by being made
the thoroughfares of vice. He is the highway of his vice. The searching
devil courses through and through him. His flesh and blood and bones
are cheapened. He is all trivial, a place where three highways of sin
meet. So is another the thoroughfare of virtue, and virtue circulates
through all his aisles like a wind, and he is hallowed.

       *       *       *       *       *

We reprove each other unconsciously by our own behavior. Our very
carriage and demeanor in the streets should be a reprimand that will go
to the conscience of every beholder. An infusion of love from a great
soul gives a color to our faults, which will discover them, as lunar
caustic detects impurities in water.

       *       *       *       *       *

The best will not seem to go contrary to others, but, as if _they_ could
afford to travel the same way, they go a parallel but higher course, a
sort of upper road. Jonson says,—

     "That to the vulgar canst thyself apply,
     Treading a better path not contrary."

Their way is a mountain slope, a river valley's course, a tide which
mingles a myriad lesser currents.


_March 5. Friday._ How can our love increase, unless our loveliness
increase also? We must securely love each other as we love God, with no
more danger that our love be unrequited or ill-bestowed. There is that
in my friend before which I must first decay and prove untrue. Love is
the least moral and the most. Are the best good in their love? or the
worst, bad?


_March 6._ An honest misunderstanding is often the ground of future
intercourse.


"THE SPHINX"[225]

_March 7, 8, 9, 10._ The Sphinx is man's insatiable and questioning
spirit, which still, as of old, stands by the roadside in us and
proposes the riddle of life to every passer. The ancients represented
this by a monster who was a riddle of herself, having a body composed of
various creatures, as if to hint that she had no individual existence,
but was nearly allied to and brooded over all. They made her devour
those who were unable to explain her enigmas, as we are devoured by
doubt, and struggle towards the light, as if to be assured of our lives.
For we live by confidence, and our bravery is in some moment when we are
certain to that degree that our certainty cannot be increased; as, when
a ray bursts through a gap in a cloud, it darts as far, and reaches the
earth as surely, as the whole sun would have done.

1. In the first four lines is described the mood in which the Sphinx
bestirs herself in us. We must look on the world with a drowsy and
half-shut eye, that it may not be too much in our eye, and rather stand
aloof from than within it. When we are awake to the real world, we are
asleep to the actual. The sinful drowse to eternity, the virtuous to
time. Menu says that the "supreme omnipresent intelligence" is "a spirit
which can only be conceived by a mind _slumbering_." Wisdom and holiness
always slumber; they are never active in the ways of the world. As in
our night-dreams we are nearest to awakening, so in our day-dreams
we are nearest to a supernatural awakening, and the plain and flat
satisfactoriness of life becomes so significant as to be questioned.

The Sphinx hints that in the ages her secret is kept, but in the
annihilation of ages alone is it revealed. So far from solving the
problem of life, Time only serves to propose and keep it in. Time
waits but for its solution to become eternity. Its lapse is measured
by the successive failures to answer the incessant question, and the
generations of men are the unskillful passengers devoured.

2. She hints generally at man's mystery. He knows only that he is, not
what, nor whence. Not only is he curiously and wonderfully wrought, but
with Dædalian intricacy. He is lost in himself as a labyrinth and has
no clue to get out by. If he could get out of his humanity, he would
have got out of nature. "Dædalian" expresses both the skill and the
inscrutable design of the builder.

The insolubleness of the riddle is only more forcibly expressed by the
lines,—

     "Out of sleeping a waking,
       Out of waking a sleep."

They express the complete uncertainty and renunciation of knowledge of
the propounder.

3, 4, 5, 6. In these verses is described the integrity of all animate
and inanimate things but man,—how each is a problem of itself and
not the solution of one and presides over and uses the mystery of the
universe as unhesitatingly as if it were the partner of God; how, by a
sort of _essential and practical faith_, each understands all, for to
see that we understand is to know that we misunderstand. Each natural
object is an end to itself. A brave, undoubting life do they all live,
and are content to be a part of the mystery which is God, and throw the
responsibility on man of explaining them and himself too.

3. The outlines of the trees are as correct as if ruled by God on the
sky. The motions of quadrupeds and birds Nature never thinks to mend,
but they are a last copy and the flourishes of His hand.

4. The waves lapse with such a melody on the shore as shows that they
have long been at one with Nature. Theirs is as perfect play as if
the heavens and earth were not. They meet with a sweet difference
and independently, as old playfellows. Nothing do they lack more than
the world. The ripple is proud to be a ripple and balances the sea.
The atoms, which are in such a continual flux, notwithstanding their
minuteness, have a certain essential valor and independence. They have
the integrity of worlds, and attract and repel firmly as such. The least
has more manhood than Democritus.

5. So also in Nature the perfection of the whole is the perfection of
the parts, and what is itself perfect serves to adorn and set off all
the rest. Her distinctions are but reliefs. Night veileth the morning
for the morning's sake, and the vapor adds a new attraction to the hill.
Nature looks like a conspiracy for the advantage of all her parts;
when one feature shines, all the rest seem suborned to heighten its
charm. In her circle each gladly gives precedence to the other. Day
gladly alternates with night. Behind these the vapor atones to the hill
for its interference, and this harmonious scene is the effect of that
at-one-ment.

6. In a sense the babe takes its departure from Nature as the grown man
his departure out of her, and so during its nonage is at one with her,
and as a part of herself. It is indeed the very flower and blossom of
Nature.

     "Shines the peace of all being
       Without cloud, in its eyes;
     And the _sum_ of the world
       In soft _miniature_ lies."[226]

To the charming consistency of the palm and thrush, this universal and
serene beauty is added, as all the leaves of the tree flower in the
blossom.

7. But alas, the fruit to be matured in these petals is fated to break
the stem which holds it to universal consistency. It passes _through
Nature_ to manhood, and becomes unnatural, without being as yet quite
supernatural. Man's most approved life is but conformity, not a simple
and independent consistency, which would make all things conform to it.
His actions do not adorn Nature nor one another, nor does she exist in
harmony but in contrast with them. She is not their willing scenery.
We conceive that if a true action were to be performed it would be
assisted by Nature, and perhaps be fondled and reflected many times as
the rainbow. The sun is a true light for the trees in a picture, but
not for the actions of men. They will not bear so strong a light as
the stubble; the universe has little sympathy with them, and sooner or
later they rebound hollowly on the memory. The April shower should be
as reviving to our life as to the garden and the grove, and the scenery
in which we live reflect our own beauty, as the dewdrop the flower. It
is the actual man, not the actual Nature, that hurts the romance of the
landscape. "He poisons the ground." The haymakers must be lost in the
grass of the meadow. They may be Faustus and Amyntas here, but near at
hand they are Reuben and Jonas. The woodcutter must not be better than
the wood, lest he be _worse_. Neither will bear to be considered as a
distinct feature. Man's works must lie in the bosom of Nature, cottages
be buried in trees, or under vines and moss, like rocks, that they
may not outrage the landscape. The hunter must be dressed in Lincoln
green, with a plume of eagle's feathers, to imbosom him in Nature.
So the skillful painter secures the distinctness of the whole by the
indistinctness of the parts. We can endure best to consider our repose
and silence. Only when the city, the hamlet, or the cottage is viewed
from a distance does man's life seem in harmony with the universe; but
seen closely his actions have no eagle's feathers or Lincoln green to
redeem them. The sunlight on cities at a distance is a deceptive beauty,
but foretells the final harmony of man with Nature.

Man as he is, is not the subject of any art, strictly speaking. The
naturalist pursues his study with love, but the moralist persecutes
his with hate. In man is the material of a picture, with a design
partly sketched, but Nature is such a picture drawn and colored. He is
a studio, Nature a gallery. If men were not idealists, no sonnets to
beautiful persons nor eulogies on worthy ones would ever be written.
We wait for the preacher to express _such_ love for his congregation as
the botanist for his herbarium.

8. Man, however, detects something in the lingering ineradicable
sympathy of Nature which seems to side with him against the stern
decrees of the soul. Her essential friendliness is only the more
apparent to his waywardness, for disease and sorrow are but a rupture
with her. In proportion as he renounces his will, she repairs his hurts,
and, if she burns, does oftener warm, if she freezes, oftener refreshes.
This is the motherliness which the poet personifies, and the Sphinx, or
wisely inquiring man, makes express a real concern for him. Nature shows
us a stern kindness, and only we are unkind. She endures long with us,
and though the severity of her law is unrelaxed, yet its evenness and
impartiality look relenting, and almost sympathize with our fault.

9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14. But to the poet there are no riddles. They are
"pleasant songs" to him; his faith solves the enigmas which recurring
wisdom does not fail to repeat. Poetry is the only solution time can
offer. But the poet is soonest a pilgrim from his own faith. Our brave
moments may still be distinguished from our wise. Though the problem
is always solved for the soul, still does it remain to be solved by the
intellect. Almost faith puts the question, for only in her light can it
be answered. However true the answer, it does not prevent the question;
for the best answer is but plausible, and man can only tell his relation
to truth, but render no account of truth to herself.

9. Believe, and ask not, says the poet.

     "Deep love lieth under
       These pictures of time;
     They fade in the light of
       Their meaning sublime."

Nothing is plain but love.

10, 11, 12, 13. Man comes short, because he seeks perfection. He adorns
no world, while he is seeking to adorn a better. His best actions have
no reference to their actual scenery. For when our actions become of
that worth that they might confer a grace on Nature, they pass out of
her into a higher arena, where they are still mean and awkward. So that
the world beholds only the rear of great deeds, and mistakes them often
for inconsistencies, not knowing with what higher they consist. Nature
is beautiful as in repose, not promising a higher beauty to-morrow.
Her actions are level to one another, and so are never unfit or
inconsistent. Shame and remorse, which are so unsightly to her, have
a prospective beauty and fitness which redeem them. We would have our
lover to be nobler than we, and do not fear to sacrifice our love to
his greater nobleness. Better the disagreement of noble lovers than
the agreement of base ones. In friendship each will be nobler than the
other, and so avoid the cheapness of a level and idle harmony. Love will
have its chromatic strains,—discordant yearnings for higher chords,—as
well as symphonies. Let us expect no finite satisfaction.

13. Who looks in the sun will see no light else; but also he will see
no shadow. Our life revolves unceasingly, but the centre is ever the
same, and the wise will regard only the seasons of the soul.

14. The poet concludes with the same trust he began with, and jeers at
the blindness which could inquire. But our sphinx is so wise as to put
no riddle that can be answered. It is a great presumption to answer
conclusively a question which any sincerity has put. The wise answer
no questions,—nor do they ask them. She silences his jeers with the
conviction that she is the eye-beam of his eye. Our proper eye never
quails before an answer. To rest in a reply, as a response of the
oracle, that is error; but to suspect time's reply, because we would not
degrade one of God's meanings to be intelligible to us, that is wisdom.
We shall never arrive at his meaning, but it will ceaselessly arrive to
us. The truth we seek with ardor and devotion will not reward us with a
cheap acquisition. We run unhesitatingly in our career, not fearing to
pass any goal of truth in our haste. We career toward her eternally. A
truth rested in stands for all the vice of an age, and revolution comes
kindly to restore health.

16. The cunning Sphinx, who had been hushed into stony silence and
repose in us, arouses herself and detects a mystery in all things,—in
infancy, the moon, fire, flowers, sea, mountain,—and,

(17) in the spirit of the old fable, declares proudly,—

     "Who telleth one of my meanings
       Is master of all I am."

When some Œdipus has solved one of her enigmas, she will go dash her
head against a rock.

       *       *       *       *       *

You may find this as enigmatical as the Sphinx's riddle. Indeed, I doubt
if she could solve it herself.


_March 11. Thursday._ Every man understands why a fool sings.


_March 13. Saturday._ There is a sort of homely truth and naturalness in
some books, which is very rare to find, and yet looks quite cheap. There
may be nothing lofty in the sentiment, or polished in the expression,
but it is careless, countrified talk. The scholar rarely writes as
well as the farmer talks. Homeliness is a great merit in a book; it is
next to beauty and a high art. Some have this merit only. A few homely
expressions redeem them. Rusticity is pastoral, but affectation merely
civil. The scholar does not make his most familiar experience come
gracefully to the aid of his expression, and hence, though he live in
it, his books contain no tolerable pictures of the country and simple
life. Very few men can speak of Nature with any truth. They confer no
favor; they do not speak a good word for her. Most cry better than
they speak. You can get more nature out of them by pinching than by
addressing them. It is naturalness, and not simply good nature, that
interests. I like better the surliness with which the woodchopper
speaks of his woods, handling them as indifferently as his axe, than
the mealy-mouthed enthusiasm of the lover of nature. Better that the
primrose by the river's brim be a yellow primrose and nothing more, than
the victim of his bouquet or herbarium, to shine with the flickering
dull light of his imagination, and not the golden gleam of a star.

Aubrey relates of Thomas Fuller that his was "a very working head, in so
much, that walking and meditating before dinner, he would eat up a penny
loaf, not knowing that he did it. His natural memory was very great, to
which he added the art of memory. He would repeat to you forwards and
backwards all the signs from Ludgate to Charing-cross." These are very
good and wholesome facts to know of a man, as copious as some modern
volumes.

He also says of Mr. John Hales, that, "he loved Canarie" and was buried
"under an altar monument of black marble ... with a too long epitaph;"
of Edmund Halley, that he "at sixteen could make a dial, and then he
said he thought himself a brave fellow;" of William Holder, who wrote
a book upon his curing one Popham, who was deaf and dumb, "He was
beholding to no author; did only consult with nature." For the most
part an author but consults with all who have written before upon any
subject, and his book is but the advice of so many. But a true book will
never have been forestalled, but the topic itself will be new, and, by
consulting with nature, it will consult not only with those who have
gone before, but with those who may come after. There is always room
and occasion enough for a true book on any subject, as there is room for
more light the brightest day, and more rays will not interfere with the
first.[227]

How alone must our life be lived! We dwell on the seashore, and none
between us and the sea. Men are my merry companions, my fellow-pilgrims,
who beguile the way but leave me at the first turn in the road, for none
are travelling _one_ road so far as myself.

Each one marches in the van. The weakest child is exposed to the fates
henceforth as barely as its parents. Parents and relations but entertain
the youth; they cannot stand between him and his destiny. This is the
one bare side of every man. There is no fence; it is clear before him
to the bounds of space.

       *       *       *       *       *

What is fame to a living man? If he live aright, the sound of no man's
voice will resound through the aisles of his secluded life. His life is
a hallowed silence, a fane. The loudest sounds have to thank my little
ear that they are heard.


_March 15._ When I have access to a man's barrel of sermons, which were
written from week to week, as his life lapsed, though I now know him
to live cheerfully and bravely enough, still I cannot conceive what
interval there was for laughter and smiles in the midst of so much
sadness. Almost in proportion to the sincerity and earnestness of the
life will be the sadness of the record. When I reflect that twice a week
for so many years he pondered and preached such a sermon, I think he
must have been a splenetic and melancholy man, and wonder if his food
digested well. It seems as if the fruit of virtue was never a careless
happiness.

A great cheerfulness have all great wits possessed, almost a prophane
levity to such as understood them not, but their religion had the
broader basis in proportion as it was less prominent. The religion I
love is very laic. The clergy are as diseased, and as much possessed
with a devil, as the reformers. They make their topic as offensive as
the politician, for our religion is as unpublic and incommunicable
as our poetical vein, and to be approached with as much love and
tenderness.


_March 17. Wednesday._ The stars go up and down before my only eye.
Seasons come round to me alone. I cannot lean so hard on any arm as on
a sunbeam. So solid men are not to my sincerity as is the shimmer of
the fields.


_March 19. Friday._ No true and brave person will be content to live
on such a footing with his fellow and himself as the laws of every
household now require. The house is the very haunt and lair of our vice.
I am impatient to withdraw myself from under its roof as an unclean
spot. There is no circulation there; it is full of stagnant and mephitic
vapors.


_March 20._ Even the wisest and best are apt to use their lives as the
occasion to do something else in than to live greatly. But we should
hang as fondly over this work as the finishing and embellishment of a
poem.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is a great relief when for a few moments in the day we can retire
to our chamber and be completely true to ourselves. It leavens the rest
of our hours. In that moment I will be nakedly as vicious as I am; this
false life of mine shall have a being at length.


_March 21. Sunday._ To be associated with others by my friend's
generosity when he bestows a gift is an additional favor to be grateful
for.


_March 27. Saturday._ Magnanimity, though it look expensive for a short
course, is always economy in the long run. Be generous in your poverty,
if you would be rich. To make up a great action there are no subordinate
mean ones. We can never afford to postpone a true life to-day to any
future and anticipated nobleness. We think if by tight economy we
can manage to arrive at independence, then indeed we will begin to be
generous without stay. We sacrifice all nobleness to a little present
meanness. If a man charges you eight hundred pay him eight hundred
and fifty, and it will leave a clean edge to the sum. It will be like
nature, overflowing and rounded like the bank of a river, not close and
precise like a drain or ditch.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is always a short step to peace—of mind.

       *       *       *       *       *

Under this line there is or has been life; as, when I see the mole's
raised gallery in the meadow, I know that he has passed underneath.

       *       *       *       *       *

I must not lose any of my freedom by being a farmer and landholder. Most
who enter on any profession are doomed men. The world might as well sing
a dirge over them forthwith. The farmer's muscles are rigid. He can do
one thing long, not many well. His pace seems determined henceforth;
he never quickens it. A very rigid Nemesis is his fate. When the right
wind blows or a star calls, I can leave this arable and grass ground,
without making a will or settling my estate. I would buy a farm as
freely as a silken streamer. Let me not think my front windows must face
east henceforth because a particular hill slopes that way. My life must
undulate still. I will not feel that my wings are clipped when once I
have settled on ground which the law calls my own, but find new pinions
grown to the old, and talaria to my feet beside.


_March 30. Tuesday._ I find my life growing slovenly when it does not
exercise a constant supervision over itself. Its duds accumulate. Next
to having lived a day well is a clear and calm overlooking of all our
days.


FRIENDSHIP

     Now we are partners in such legal trade,
     We'll look to the beginnings, not the ends,
     Nor to pay-day, knowing true wealth is made
     For current stock and not for dividends.

I am amused when I read how Ben Jonson engaged that the ridiculous masks
with which the royal family and nobility were to be entertained should
be "grounded upon antiquity and solid learning."[228]


ON THE SUN COMING OUT IN THE AFTERNOON

_April 1._

     Methinks all things have travelled since you shined,
     But only Time, and clouds, Time's team, have moved;
     Again foul weather shall not change my mind,
     But in the shade I will believe what in the sun I loved.

In reading a work on agriculture, I skip the author's moral reflections,
and the words "Providence" and "He" scattered along the page, to come at
the profitable level of what he has to say. There is no science in men's
religion; it does not teach me so much as the report of the committee on
swine. My author shows he has dealt in corn and turnips and can worship
God with the hoe and spade, but spare me his morality.[229]


_April 3._ Friends will not only live in harmony, but in melody.[230]


_April 4. Sunday._ The rattling of the tea-kettle below stairs reminds
me of the cow-bells I used to hear when berrying in the Great Fields
many years ago, sounding distant and deep amid the birches. That cheap
piece of tinkling brass which the farmer hangs about his cow's neck has
been more to me than the tons of metal which are swung in the belfry.

     They who prepare my evening meal below
     Carelessly hit the kettle as they go,
     With tongs or shovel,
     And, ringing round and round,
     Out of this hovel
     It makes an Eastern temple by the sound.

     At first I thought a cow-bell, right at hand
     'Mid birches, sounded o'er the open land,
     Where I plucked flowers
     Many years ago,
     Speeding midsummer hours
     With such secure delight they hardly seemed to flow.


_April 5._ This long series of desultory mornings does not tarnish the
brightness of the prospective days. Surely faith is not dead. Wood,
water, earth, air are essentially what they were; only society has
degenerated. This lament for a golden age is only a lament for golden
men.

       *       *       *       *       *

I only ask a clean seat. I will build my lodge on the southern slope
of some hill, and take there the life the gods send me. Will it not be
employment enough to accept gratefully all that is yielded me between
sun and sun?[231] Even the fox digs his own burrow. If my jacket and
trousers, my boots and shoes, are fit to worship God in, they will do.
Won't they, Deacon Spaulding?[232]


_April 7. Wednesday._ My life will wait for nobody, but is being matured
still irresistibly while I go about the streets and chaffer with this
man and that to secure it a living. It will cut its own channel, like
the mountain stream, which by the longest ridges and by level prairies
is not kept from the sea finally. So flows a man's life, and will
reach the sea water, if not by an earthy channel, yet in dew and rain,
overleaping all barriers, with rainbows to announce its victory. It
can wind as cunningly and unerringly as water that seeks its level; and
shall I complain if the gods make it meander? This staying to buy me a
farm is as if the Mississippi should stop to chaffer with a clamshell.

What have I to do with plows? I cut another furrow than you see. Where
the off ox treads, there is it not, it is farther off; where the nigh
ox walks, it will not be, it is nigher still. If corn fails, my crop
fails not. What of drought? What of rain? Is not my sand well clayed,
my peat well sanded? Is it not underdrained and watered?[233]

     My ground is high,
     But 'tis not dry,
     What you call dew
     Comes filtering through;
     Though in the sky,
     It still is nigh;
     Its soil is blue
     And virgin too.

       *       *       *       *       *

     If from your price ye will not swerve,
     Why, then I'll think the gods reserve
     A greater bargain there above,
     Out of their sup'rabundant love
     Have meantime better for me cared,
     And so will get my stock prepared,
     Plows of new pattern, hoes the same,
     Designed a different soil to tame,
     And sow my seed broadcast in air,
     Certain to reap my harvest there.


_April 8._ Friends are the ancient and honorable of the earth. The
oldest men did not begin friendship. It is older than Hindostan and the
Chinese Empire. How long has it been cultivated, and is still the staple
article! It is a divine league struck forever. Warm, serene days only
bring it out to the surface. There is a friendliness between the sun
and the earth in pleasant weather; the gray content of the land is its
color.

       *       *       *       *       *

You can tell what another's suspicions are by what you feel forced to
become. You will wear a new character, like a strange habit, in their
presence.


_April 9. Friday._ It would not be hard for some quiet brave man to leap
into the saddle to-day and eclipse Napoleon's career by a grander,—show
men at length the meaning of war. One reproaches himself with
supineness, that he too has sat quiet in his chamber, and not treated
the world to the sound of the trumpet; that the indignation which has
so long rankled in his breast does not take to horse and to the field.
The bravest warrior will have to fight his battles in his dreams, and
no earthly war note can arouse him. There are who would not run with
Leonidas. Only the third-rate Napoleons and Alexanders does history tell
of. The brave man does not mind the call of the trumpet nor hear the
idle clashing of swords without, for the infinite din within. War is but
a training, compared with the active service of his peace. Is he not at
war? Does he not resist the ocean swell within him, and walk as gently
as the summer's sea? Would you have him parade in uniform, and manœuvre
men, whose equanimity is his uniform and who is himself manœuvred?

       *       *       *       *       *

The times have no heart. The true reform can be undertaken any morning
before unbarring our doors. It calls no convention. I can do two thirds
the reform of the world myself. When two neighbors begin to eat corn
bread, who before ate wheat, then the gods smile from ear to ear, for
it is very pleasant to them. When an individual takes a sincere step,
then all the gods attend, and his single deed is sweet.[234]

       *       *       *       *       *

_April 10. Saturday._ I don't know but we should make life all too tame
if we had our own way, and should miss these impulses in a happier time.

       *       *       *       *       *

How much virtue there is in simply seeing! We may almost say that the
hero has striven in vain for his pre-eminency, if the student oversees
him. The woman who sits in the house and _sees_ is a match for a
stirring captain. Those still, piercing eyes, as faithfully exercised
on their talent, will keep her even with Alexander or Shakespeare. They
may go to Asia with parade, or to fairyland, but not beyond her ray.
We are as much as we see. Faith is sight and knowledge. The hands only
serve the eyes. The farthest blue streak in the horizon I can see, I
may reach before many sunsets. What I saw alters not; in my night, when
I wander, it is still steadfast as the star which the sailor steers by.

Whoever has had one thought quite lonely, and could contentedly digest
that in solitude, knowing that none could accept it, may rise to the
height of humanity, and overlook all living men as from a pinnacle.

       *       *       *       *       *

Speech never made man master of men, but the eloquently refraining from
it.


_April 11. Sunday._ A greater baldness my life seeks, as the crest of
some bare hill, which towns and cities do not afford. I want a directer
relation with the sun.


FRIENDSHIP'S STEADFASTNESS

     True friendship is so firm a league
     That's maintenance falls into the even tenor
     Of our lives, and is no tie,
     But the continuance of our life's thread.

     If I would safely keep this new-got pelf,
     I have no care henceforth but watch myself,
     For lo! it goes untended from my sight,
     Waxes and wanes secure with the safe star of night.

     See with what liberal step it makes its way,
     As we could well afford to let it stray
     Throughout the universe, with the sun and moon,
     Which would dissolve allegiance as soon.

     Shall I concern myself for fickleness,
     And undertake to make my friends more sure,
     When the great gods out of sheer kindliness,
     Gave me this office for a sinecure?

       *       *       *       *       *

     Death cannot come too soon
     Where it can come at all,
     But always is too late
     Unless the fates it call.


_April 15. Thursday._ The gods are of no sect; they side with no man.
When I imagine that Nature inclined rather to some few earnest and
faithful souls, and specially existed for them, I go to see an obscure
individual who lives under the hill, letting both gods and men alone,
and find that strawberries and tomatoes grow for him too in his garden
there, and the sun lodges kindly under his hillside, and am compelled
to acknowledge the unbribable charity of the gods.

Any simple, unquestioned mode of life is alluring to men. The man who
picks peas steadily for a living is more than respectable. He is to be
envied by his neighbors.


_April 16._ I have been inspecting my neighbors' farms to-day and
chaffering with the landholders, and I must confess I am startled to
find everywhere the old system of things so grim and assured. Wherever I
go the farms are run out, and there they lie, and the youth must buy old
land and bring it to. Everywhere the relentless opponents of reform are
a few old maids and bachelors, who sit round the kitchen fire, listening
to the singing of the tea-kettle and munching cheese-rinds.[235]


_April 18. Sunday._ We need pine for no office for the sake of a certain
culture, for all valuable experience lies in the way of a man's duty.
My necessities of late have compelled me to study Nature as she is
related to the farmer,—as she simply satisfies a want of the body.
Some interests have got a footing on the earth which I have not made
sufficient allowance for. That which built these barns and cleared the
land thus had some valor.[236]

       *       *       *       *       *

We take little steps, and venture small stakes, as if our actions were
very fatal and irretrievable. There is no swing to our deeds. But our
life is only a retired valley where we rest on our packs awhile. Between
us and our end there is room for any delay. It is not a short and easy
southern way, but we must go over snow-capped mountains to reach the
sun.


_April 20._ You can't beat down your virtue; so much goodness it must
have.

       *       *       *       *       *

When a room is furnished, comfort is not furnished.

       *       *       *       *       *

Great thoughts hallow any labor. To-day I earned seventy-five cents
heaving manure out of a pen, and made a good bargain of it. If the
ditcher muses the while how he may live uprightly, the ditching spade
and turf knife may be engraved on the coat-of-arms of his posterity.

       *       *       *       *       *

There are certain current expressions and blasphemous moods of viewing
things, as when we say "he is doing a good business," more prophane than
cursing and swearing. There is death and sin in such words. Let not the
children hear them.


_April 22. Thursday._ There are two classes of authors: the one write
the history of their times, the other their biography.


_April 23. Friday._ Any greatness is not to be mistaken. Who shall cavil
at it? It stands once for all on a level with the heroes of history. It
is not to be patronized. It goes alone.

       *       *       *       *       *

When I hear music, I flutter, and am the scene of life, as a fleet of
merchantmen when the wind rises.


_April 24._ Music is the sound of the circulation in nature's veins.
It is the flux which melts nature. Men dance to it, glasses ring and
vibrate, and the fields seem to undulate. The healthy ear always hears
it, nearer or more remote.

       *       *       *       *       *

It has been a cloudy, drizzling day, with occasional brightenings in
the mist, when the trill of the tree sparrow seemed to be ushering in
sunny hours.[237]


_April 25._ A momentous silence reigns always in the woods, and their
meaning seems just ripening into expression. But alas! they make no
haste. The rush sparrow,[238] Nature's minstrel of serene hours, sings
of an immense leisure and duration.

When I hear a robin sing at sunset, I cannot help contrasting the
equanimity of Nature with the bustle and impatience of man. We return
from the lyceum and caucus with such stir and excitement, as if a crisis
were at hand; but no natural scene or sound sympathizes with us, for
Nature is always silent and unpretending as at the break of day. She
but rubs her eyelids.

       *       *       *       *       *

I am struck with the pleasing friendships and unanimities of nature in
the woods, as when the moss on the trees takes the form of their leaves.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is all of civilized life in the woods. Their wildest scenes have
an air of domesticity and homeliness, and when the flicker's cackle is
heard in the clearings, the musing hunter is reminded that civilization
has imported nothing into them.[239] The ball-room is represented by
the catkins of the alder at this season, which hang gracefully like a
lady's ear-drops.

All the discoveries of science are equally true in their deepest
recesses; nature there, too, obeys the same laws. Fair weather and foul
concern the little red bug upon a pine stump; for him the wind goes
round the right way and the sun breaks through the clouds.[240]


_April 26. Monday._ At R. W. E.'s.

The charm of the Indian to me is that he stands free and unconstrained
in Nature, is her inhabitant and not her guest, and wears her easily
and gracefully. But the civilized man has the habits of the house. His
house is a prison, in which he finds himself oppressed and confined,
not sheltered and protected. He walks as if he sustained the roof; he
carries his arms as if the walls would fall in and crush him, and his
feet remember the cellar beneath. His muscles are never relaxed. It is
rare that he overcomes the house, and learns to sit at home in it, and
roof and floor and walls support themselves, as the sky and trees and
earth.

It is a great art to saunter.


_April 27._ It is only by a sort of voluntary blindness, and omitting
to see, that we know ourselves, as when we see stars with the side of
the eye. The nearest approach to discovering what we are is in dreams.
It is as hard to see one's self as to look backwards without turning
round. And foolish are they that look in glasses with that intent.

The porters have a hard time, but not so hard as he that carries his
own shoulders. That beats the Smyrna Turks. Some men's broad shoulders
are load enough. Even a light frame can stand under a great burden,
if it does not have to support itself. Virtue is buoyant and elastic;
it stands without effort and does not feel gravity; but sin plods and
shuffles. Newton needed not to wait for an apple to fall to discover
the attraction of gravitation; it was implied in the fall of man.


_April 28. Wednesday._ We falsely attribute to men a determined
character; putting together all their yesterdays and averaging them,
we presume we know them. Pity the man who has a character to support.
It is worse than a large family. He is silent poor indeed. But in
fact character is never explored, nor does it get developed in time,
but eternity is its development, time its envelope. In view of this
distinction, a sort of divine politeness and heavenly good breeding
suggests itself, to address always the enveloped character of a man. I
approach a great nature with infinite expectation and uncertainty, not
knowing what I may meet. It lies as broad and unexplored before me as
a scraggy hillside or pasture. I may hear a fox bark, or a partridge
drum, or some bird new to these localities may fly up. It lies out there
as old, and yet as new. The aspect of the woods varies every day, what
with their growth and the changes of the seasons and the influence of
the elements, so that the eye of the forester never twice rests upon
the same prospect. Much more does a character show newly and variedly,
if directly seen. It is the highest compliment to suppose that in the
intervals of conversation your companion has expanded and grown. It
may be a deference which he will not understand, but the nature which
underlies him will understand it, and your influence will be shed as
finely on him as the dust in the sun settles on our clothes. By such
politeness we may educate one another to some purpose. So have I felt
myself educated sometimes; I am expanded and enlarged.


_April 29._ Birds and quadrupeds pass freely through nature, without
prop or stilt. But man very naturally carries a stick in his hand,
seeking to ally himself by many points to nature, as a warrior stands by
his horse's side with his hand on his mane. We walk the gracefuler for
a cane, as the juggler uses a leaded pole to balance him when he dances
on a slack wire.

       *       *       *       *       *

Better a monosyllabic life than a ragged and muttered one; let its
report be short and round like a rifle, so that it may hear its own echo
in the surrounding silence.


_April 30._ Where shall we look for standard English but to the words
of any man who has a depth of feeling in him? Not in any smooth and
leisurely essay. From the gentlemanly windows of the country-seat no
sincere eyes are directed upon nature, but from the peasant's horn
windows a true glance and greeting occasionally. "For summer being
ended, all things," said the Pilgrim, "stood in appearance with a
weather-beaten face, and the whole country full of woods and thickets
represented a wild and savage hue." Compare this with the agricultural
report.


_May 1. Saturday._ Life in gardens and parlors is unpalatable to me. It
wants rudeness and necessity to give it relish. I would at least strike
my spade into the earth with as good will as the woodpecker his bill
into a tree.[241]


WACHUSETT[242]

_May 2._

     Especial I remember thee,
     Wachusett, who like me
     Standest alone without society.
     Thy far blue eye,
     A remnant of the sky,
     Seen through the clearing or the gorge,
     Or from the windows of the forge,
     Doth leaven all it passes by.
     Nothing is true
     But stands 'tween me and you,
     Thou western pioneer,
     Who know'st not shame nor fear,
     By venturous spirit driven
     Under the eaves of heaven;
     And canst expand thee there,
     And breathe enough of air?
     Upholding heaven, holding down earth,
     Thy pastime from thy birth,
     Not steadied by the one, nor leaning on the other;
     May I approve myself thy worthy brother!


_May 3. Monday._ We are all pilots of the most intricate Bahama
channels. Beauty may be the sky overhead, but Duty is the water
underneath. When I see a man with serene countenance in the sunshine of
summer, drinking in peace in the garden or parlor, it looks like a great
inward leisure that he enjoys; but in reality he sails on no summer's
sea, but this steady sailing comes of a heavy hand on the tiller. We
do not attend to larks and bluebirds so leisurely but that conscience
is as erect as the attitude of the listener. The man of principle gets
never a holiday. Our true character silently underlies all our words and
actions, as the granite underlies the other strata. Its steady pulse
does not cease for any deed of ours, as the sap is still ascending in
the stalk of the fairest flower.


_May 6. Thursday._ The fickle person is he that does not know what is
true or right absolutely,—who has not an ancient wisdom for a lifetime,
but a new prudence for every hour. We must sail by a sort of dead
reckoning on this course of life, not speak any vessel nor spy any
headland, but, in spite of all phenomena, come steadily to port at last.
In general we must have a catholic and universal wisdom, wiser than
any particular, and be prudent enough to defer to it always. We are
literally wiser than we know. Men do not fail for want of knowledge,
but for want of prudence to give wisdom the preference.[243] These low
weathercocks on barns and fences show not which way the general and
steady current of the wind sets,—which brings fair weather or foul,—but
the vane on the steeple, high up in another stratum of atmosphere, tells
that. What we need to know in any case is very simple.[244] I shall not
mistake the direction of my life; if I but know the high land and the
main,—on this side the Cordilleras, on that the Pacific,—I shall know
how to run. If a ridge intervene, I have but to seek, or make, a gap to
the sea.


_May 9. Sunday._ The pine stands in the woods like an Indian,—untamed,
with a fantastic wildness about it, even in the clearings. If an Indian
warrior were well painted, with pines in the background, he would seem
to blend with the trees, and make a harmonious expression. The pitch
pines are the ghosts of Philip and Massasoit. The white pine has the
smoother features of the squaw.

       *       *       *       *       *

The poet speaks only those thoughts that come unbidden, like the wind
that stirs the trees, and men cannot help but listen. He is not listened
to, but heard. The weathercock might as well dally with the wind as a
man pretend to resist eloquence. The breath that inspires the poet has
traversed a whole Campagna, and this new climate here indicates that
other latitudes are chilled or heated.

       *       *       *       *       *

Speak to men as to gods and you will not be insincere.


WESTWARD, HO!

     The needles of the pine
     All to the west incline.[245]


THE ECHO OF THE SABBATH BELL HEARD IN THE WOODS[246]

     Dong, sounds the brass in the east,
     As if for a civic feast,
     But I like that sound the best
     Out of the fluttering west.

     The steeple rings a knell,
     But the fairies' silvery bell
     Is the voice of that gentle folk,
     Or else the horizon that spoke.

     Its metal is not of brass,
     But air, and water, and glass,
     And under a cloud it is swung,
     And by the wind is rung,
     With a slim silver tongue.

     When the steeple tolls the noon,
     It soundeth not so soon,
     Yet it rings an earlier hour,
     And the sun has not reached its tower.


_May 10. Monday._ A good warning to the restless tourists of these days
is contained in the last verses of Claudian's "Old Man of Verona."

     "Erret, et extremos alter scrutetur Iberos.
     Plus habet hic vitae, plus habet ille viae."[247]


_May 23. Sunday._ Barn.—The distant woods are but the tassels of my eye.

Books are to be attended to as new sounds merely. Most would be put to
a sore trial if the reader should assume the attitude of a listener.
They are but a new note in the forest. To our lonely, sober thought the
earth is a wild unexplored. Wildness as of the jay and muskrat reigns
over the great part of nature. The oven-bird and plover are heard in the
horizon. Here is a new book of heroes, come to me like the note of the
chewink from over the fen, only over a deeper and wider fen. The pines
are unrelenting sifters of thought; nothing petty leaks through them.
Let me put my ear close, and hear the sough of this book, that I may
know if any inspiration yet haunts it. There is always a later edition
of every book than the printer wots of, no matter how recently it was
published. All nature is a new impression every instant.

       *       *       *       *       *

The aspects of the most simple object are as various as the aspects
of the most compound. Observe the same sheet of water from different
eminences. When I have travelled a few miles I do not recognize the
profile of the hills of my native village.


_May 27. Thursday._ I sit in my boat on Walden, playing the flute this
evening, and see the perch, which I seem to have charmed, hovering
around me, and the moon travelling over the bottom, which is strewn
with the wrecks of the forest, and feel that nothing but the wildest
imagination can conceive of the manner of life we are living. Nature is
a wizard. The Concord nights are stranger than the Arabian nights.

We not only want elbow-room, but eye-room in this gray air which shrouds
all the fields. Sometimes my eyes see over the county road by daylight
to the tops of yonder birches on the hill, as at others by moonlight.

Heaven lies above, because the air is deep.

       *       *       *       *       *

In all my life hitherto I have left nothing behind.


_May 31. Monday._ That title, "The Laws of Menu[248] with the Gloss of
Culluca," comes to me with such a volume of sound as if it had swept
unobstructed over the plains of Hindostan; and when my eye rests on
yonder birches, or the sun in the water, or the shadows of the trees, it
seems to signify the laws of them all. They are the laws of you and me,
a fragrance wafted down from those old times, and no more to be refuted
than the wind.

When my imagination travels eastward and backward to those remote years
of the gods, I seem to draw near to the habitation of the morning, and
the dawn at length has a place. I remember the book as an hour before
sunrise.

       *       *       *       *       *

We are height and depth both, a calm sea at the foot of a promontory.
Do we not overlook our own depths?


_June 1._ To have seen a man out of the East or West is sufficient to
establish their reality and locality. I have seen a Mr. Wattles to-day,
from Vermont, and now know where that is and that it is; a reformer,
with two soldier's eyes and shoulders, who began to belabor the world
at ten years, a ragged mountain boy, as fifer of a company, with set
purpose to remould it from those first years.

       *       *       *       *       *

The great person never wants an opportunity to be great, but makes
occasion for all about him.


_June 2. Wednesday._ I am brought into the near neighborhood and am
become a silent observer of the moon's paces to-night, by means of a
glass, while the frogs are peeping all around me on the earth, and the
sound of the accordion seems to come from some bright saloon yonder. I
am sure the moon floats in a human atmosphere. It is but a distant scene
of the world's drama. It is a wide theatre the gods have given us, and
our actions must befit it. More sea and land, mountain and valley, here
is,—a further West, a freshness and wildness in reserve when all the
land shall be cleared.

I see three little lakes between the hills near its edge, reflecting the
sun's rays. The light glimmers as on the water in a tumbler. So far off
do the laws of reflection hold. I seem to see the ribs of the creature.
This is the aspect of their day, its outside,—their heaven above their
heads, towards which they breathe their prayers. So much is between me
and them. It is noon there, perchance, and ships are at anchor in the
havens or sailing on the seas, and there is a din in the streets, and
in this light or that shade some leisurely soul contemplates.

But now dor-bugs fly over its disk and bring me back to earth and night.


_June 7. Monday._ The inhabitants of those Eastern plains seem to
possess a natural and hereditary right to be conservative and magnify
forms and traditions. "Immemorial custom is transcendent law," says
Menu. That is, it was the custom of gods before men used it. The fault
of our New England custom is that it is memorial. What is morality but
immemorial custom? It is not manner but character, and the conservative
conscience sustains it.[249]

We are accustomed to exaggerate the immobility and stagnation of those
eras, as of the waters which levelled the steppes; but those slow
revolving "years of the gods" were as rapid to all the needs of virtue
as these bustling and hasty seasons. Man stands to revere, he kneels
to pray. Methinks history will have to be tried by new tests to show
what centuries were rapid and what slow. Corn grows in the night.[250]
Will this bustling era detain the future reader longer? Will the earth
seem to have conversed more with the heavens during these times? Who
is writing better Vedas? How science and art spread and flourished,
how trivial conveniences were multiplied, that which is the gossip
of the world is not recorded in them; and if they are left out of our
scripture, too, what will remain?

Since the Battle of Bunker Hill we think the world has _not_ been at a
standstill.

When I remember the treachery of memory and the manifold accidents
to which tradition is liable, how soon the vista of the past closes
behind,—as near as night's crescent to the setting day,—and the dazzling
brightness of noon is reduced to the faint glimmer of the evening star,
I feel as if it were by a rare indulgence of the fates that any traces
of the past are left us,—that my ears which do not hear across the
interval over which a crow caws should chance to hear this far-travelled
sound. With how little coöperation of the societies, after all, is the
past remembered!

       *       *       *       *       *

I know of no book which comes to us with grander pretensions than
the "Laws of Menu;" and this immense presumption is so impersonal and
sincere that it is never offensive or ridiculous. Observe the modes in
which modern literature is advertised, and then consider this Hindoo
prospectus. Think what a reading public it addresses, what criticism it
expects. What wonder if the times were not ripe for it?[251]


_June 8._ Having but one chair, I am obliged to receive my visitors
standing, and, now I think of it, those old sages and heroes must always
have met erectly.


_July 10 to 12._ This town, too, lies out under the sky, a port of entry
and departure for souls to and from heaven.[252]

A slight sound at evening lifts me up by the ears, and makes life seem
inexpressibly serene and grand. It may be in Uranus, or it may be in
the shutter. It is the original sound of which all literature is but
the echo. It makes all fear superfluous. Bravery comes from further than
the sources of fear.


_Aug. 1. Sunday._ I never met a man who cast a free and healthy glance
over life, but the best live in a sort of Sabbath light, a Jewish
gloom. The best thought is not only without sombreness, but even without
morality. The universe lies outspread in floods of white light to it.
The moral aspect of nature is a jaundice reflected from man. To the
innocent there are no cherubim nor angels. Occasionally we rise above
the necessity of virtue into an unchangeable morning light, in which we
have not to choose in a dilemma between right and wrong, but simply to
live right on and breathe the circumambient air.[253] There is no name
for this life unless it be the very vitality of _vita_. Silent is the
preacher about this, and silent must ever be, for he who knows it will
not preach.


_Aug. 4. Wednesday._ My pen is a lever which, in proportion as the near
end stirs me further within, the further end reaches to a greater depth
in the reader.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nawshawtuct.—Far in the east I read _Nature's Corn Law Rhymes_. Here,
in sight of Wachusett and these rivers and woods, my mind goes singing
to itself of other themes than taxation. The rush sparrow sings still
unintelligible, as from beyond a depth in me which I have not fathomed,
where my future lies folded up. I hear several faint notes, quite
outside me, which populate the waste.

This is such fresh and flowing weather, as if the waves of the morning
had subsided over the day.


_Aug. 6._ If I am well, then I see well. The bulletins of health are
twirled along my visual rays, like pasteboards on a kite string.

I cannot read a sentence in the book of the Hindoos without being
elevated as upon the table-land of the Ghauts. It has such a rhythm
as the winds of the desert, such a tide as the Ganges, and seems as
superior to criticism as the Himmaleh Mounts. Even at this late hour,
unworn by time, with a native and inherent dignity it wears the English
dress as indifferently as the Sanscrit. The great tone of the book is
of such fibre and such severe tension that no time nor accident can
relax it.[254] The great thought is never found in a mean dress, but
is of virtue to ennoble any language. Let it issue from the lips of
the Wolofs, or from the forum of Rome, the nine Muses will seem to
have been purveyors for it. Its education is always liberal; it has
all the graces of oratory and of poetry. The lofty tone which is its
indispensable breath is grace to the eye and music to the ear. It can
endow a college.[255]

       *       *       *       *       *

So supremely religious a book imposes with authority on the latest
age. The very simplicity of style of the ancient lawgiver, implying
all in the omission of all, proves an habitual elevation of thought,
which the multiplied glosses of later days strive in vain to slope up
to. The whole book by noble gestures and inclinations seems to render
words unnecessary. The abbreviated sentence points to the thing for
explanation. As the sublimest thought is most faithfully printed in the
face, and needs the fewest interpreting words. The page nods toward the
fact and is silent.

As I walk across the yard from the barn to the house through the fog,
with a lamp in my hand, I am reminded of the Merrimack nights, and seem
to see the sod between tent-ropes. The trees, seen dimly through the
mist, suggest things which do not at all belong to the past, but are
peculiar to my fresh New England life. It is as novel as green peas.
The dew hangs everywhere upon the grass, and I breathe the rich, damp
air in slices.


_Aug. 7. Saturday._ The impression which those sublime sentences made on
me last night has awakened me before any cockcrowing. Their influence
lingers around me like a fragrance, or as the fog hangs over the earth
late into the day.

The very locusts and crickets of a summer day are but later or older
glosses on the Dherma Sástra of the Hindoos, a continuation of the
sacred code.[256]


_Aug. 9._ It is vain to try to write unless you feel strong in the
knees.

Any book of great authority and genius seems to our imagination to
permeate and pervade all space. Its spirit, like a more subtle ether,
sweeps along with the prevailing winds of the country. Its influence
conveys a new gloss to the meadows and the depths of the wood, and
bathes the huckleberries on the hills, as sometimes a new influence
in the sky washes in waves over the fields and seems to break on
some invisible beach in the air. All things confirm it. It spends the
mornings and the evenings.[257]

       *       *       *       *       *

Everywhere the speech of Menu demands the widest apprehension and
proceeds from the loftiest plateau of the soul. It is spoken unbendingly
to its own level, and does not imply any contemporaneous speaker.

       *       *       *       *       *

I read history as little critically as I consider the landscape, and
am more interested in the atmospheric tints and various lights and
shades which the intervening spaces create than in its groundwork
and composition. It is the morning now turned evening and seen in the
west,—the same sun, but a new light and atmosphere. Its beauty is like
the sunset; not a fresco painting on a wall, flat and bounded, but
atmospheric and roving, or free. But, in reality, history fluctuates as
the face of the landscape from morning to evening. What is of moment
in it is its hue and color. Time hides no treasures; we want not its
_then_, but its _now_. We do not complain that the mountains in the
horizon are blue and indistinct; they are the more like the heavens.

Of what moment are facts that can be lost,—which need to be
commemorated? The monument of death will outlast the memory of the dead.
The Pyramids do not tell the tale confided to them. The living fact
commemorates itself. Why look in the dark for light? Look in the light
rather. Strictly speaking, the Societies have not recovered one fact
from oblivion, but they themselves are instead of the fact that is lost.
The researcher is more memorable than the researched. The crowd stood
admiring the mist and the dim outline of the trees seen through it, and
when one of their number advanced to explore the phenomenon, with fresh
admiration all eyes were turned on his dimly retreating figure. Critical
acumen is exerted in vain to uncover the past; the _past_ cannot be
_presented_; we cannot know what we are not. But one veil hangs over
past, present, and future, and it is the province of the historian to
find out, not what was, but what is. Where a battle has been fought,
you will find nothing but the bones of men and beasts; where a battle
is being fought, there are hearts beating. We will sit on a mound and
muse, and not try to make these skeletons stand on their legs again.
Does Nature remember, think you, that they _were_ men, or not rather
that they _are_ bones?

Ancient history has an air of antiquity. It should be more modern. It
is written as if the spectator should be thinking of the back side of
the picture on the wall, as if the author expected the dead would be
his readers, and wished to detail to them their own experience. Men
seem anxious to accomplish an orderly retreat through the centuries,
earnestly rebuilding the works behind, as they are battered down by the
incroachments of time; but while they loiter, they and their works both
fall a prey to the enemy.

Biography is liable to the same objection; it should be autobiography.
Let us not leave ourselves empty that, so vexing our bowels, we may go
abroad and be somebody else to explain him. If I am not I, who will be?
As if it were to dispense justice to all. But the time has not come for
that.[258]


_Aug. 12._ We take pleasure in beholding the form of a mountain in the
horizon, as if by retiring to this distance we had then first conquered
it by our vision, and were made privy to the design of the architect;
so when we behold the shadow of our earth on the moon's disk. When
we climb a mountain and observe the lesser irregularities, we do not
give credit to the comprehensive and general intelligence which shaped
them; but when we see the outline in the horizon, we confess that the
hand which moulded those opposite slopes, making one balance the other,
worked round a deep centre, and was privy to the plan of the universe.
The smallest of nature's works fits the farthest and widest view, as if
it had been referred in its bearings to every point in space.[259] It
harmonizes with the horizon line and the orbits of the planets.


_Aug. 13. Friday._ I have been in the swamp by Charles Miles's this
afternoon, and found it so bosky and sylvan that Art would never have
freedom or courage to imitate it. It can never match the luxury and
superfluity of Nature. In Art all is seen; she cannot afford concealed
wealth, and in consequence is niggardly; but Nature, even when she
is scant and thin outwardly, contents us still by the assurance of a
certain generosity at the roots. Surely no stinted hand has been at work
here for these centuries to produce these particular tints this summer.
The double spruce attracts me here, which I had hardly noticed in the
gardens, and now I understand why men try to make them grow about their
houses.[260]

Nature has her luxurious and florid style as well as Art. Having a
pilgrim's cup to make, she gives to the whole—stem, bowl, handle, and
nose—some fantastic shape, as if it were to be the car of a fabulous
marine deity,—a Nereus or Triton. She is mythical and mystical always,
and spends her whole genius upon the least work.[261]


_Aug. 16._ There is a double virtue in the sound that can wake an echo,
as in the lowing of the cows this morning. Far out in the horizon that
sound travels quite round the town, and invades each recess of the wood,
advancing at a grand pace and with a sounding Eastern pomp.


_Aug. 18._ I sailed on the North River last night with my flute, and
my music was a tinkling stream which meandered with the river, and
fell from note to note as a brook from rock to rock. I did not hear
the strains after they had issued from the flute, but before they were
breathed into it, for the original strain precedes the sound by as much
as the echo follows after, and the rest is the perquisite of the rocks
and trees and beasts.[262] Unpremeditated music is the true gauge which
measures the current of our thoughts, the very undertow of our life's
stream.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of all the duties of life it is hardest to be in earnest; it implies a
good deal both before and behind. I sit here in the barn this flowing
afternoon weather, while the school bell is ringing in the village, and
find that all the things immediate to be done are very trivial. I could
postpone them to hear this locust sing. The cockerels crow and the hens
cluck in the yard as if time were dog-cheap. It seems something worth
detaining time,—the laying of an egg. Cannot man do something to comfort
the gods, and not let the world prove such a piddling concern? No doubt
they would be glad to sell their shares at a large discount by this
time. Eastern Railroad stock promises a better dividend.

The best poets, after all, exhibit only a tame and civil side of nature.
They have not seen the west side of any mountain.

Day and night, mountain and wood, are visible from the wilderness as
well as the village. They have their primeval aspects, sterner, savager
than any poet has sung. It is only the white man's poetry. We want the
Indian's report. Wordsworth is too tame for the Chippeway.[263]

       *       *       *       *       *

The landscape contains a thousand dials which indicate the natural
divisions of time; the shadows of a thousand styles point to the hour.
The afternoon is now far advanced, and a fresh and leisurely wind is
blowing on the river, causing long reaches of serene ripples. It has
done its stent, and seems not to flow but lie at its length reflecting
the light. The haze over the woods seems like the breath of all nature,
rising from a myriad pores into the attenuated atmosphere.[264] It is
sun smoke, the woof he has woven, his day's toil displayed.[265]

If I were awaked from a deep sleep, I should know which side the
meridian the sun might be by the chirping of the crickets. Night has
already insidiously set her foot in the valley in many places, where the
shadows of the shrubs and fences begin to darken the landscape. There
is a deeper shading in the colors of the afternoon landscape. Perhaps
the forenoon is brighter than the afternoon, not only because of the
greater transparency of the atmosphere then, but because we naturally
look most into the west,—as we look forward into the day,—and so in the
forenoon see the sunny side of things, but in the afternoon the shadow
of every tree.

What a drama of light and shadow from morning to night! Soon as the sun
is over the meridian, in deep ravines under the east side of the cliffs
night forwardly plants her foot, and, as day retreats, steps into his
trenches, till at length she sits in his citadel. For long time she
skulks behind the needles of the pine, before she dares draw out her
forces into the plain. Sun, moon, wind, and stars are the allies of one
side or the other.[266]

       *       *       *       *       *

How much will some officious men give to preserve an old book, of which
perchance only a single [copy] exists, while a wise God is already
giving, and will still give, infinitely more to get it destroyed!


_Aug. 20. Friday._ It seems as if no cock lived so far in the horizon
but a faint vibration reached me here, spread the wider over earth as
the more distant.

In the morning the crickets snore, in the afternoon they chirp, at
midnight they dream.


_Aug. 24._ Let us wander where we will, the universe is built round
about us, and we are central still. By reason of this, if we look into
the heavens, they are concave, and if we were to look into a gulf as
bottomless, it would be concave also. The sky is curved downward to
the earth in the horizon, because I stand in the plain. I draw down its
skirts. The stars so low there seem loth to go away from me, but by a
circuitous path to be remembering and returning to me.[267]


_Aug. 28. Saturday._ A great poet will write for his peers alone, and
indite no line to an inferior. He will remember only that he saw truth
and beauty from his position, and calmly expect the time when a vision
as broad shall overlook the same field as freely.[268]

Johnson can no more criticise Milton than the naked eye can criticise
Herschel's map of the sun.

       *       *       *       *       *

The art which only gilds the surface and demands merely a superficial
polish, without reaching to the core, is but varnish and filigree. But
the work of genius is rough-hewn from the first, because it anticipates
the lapse of time and has an ingrained polish, which still appears when
fragments are broken off, an essential quality of its substance. Its
beauty is its strength. It breaks with a lustre, and splits in cubes
and diamonds. Like the diamond, it has only to be cut to be polished,
and its surface is a window to its interior splendors.

       *       *       *       *       *

True verses are not counted on the poet's fingers, but on his
heart-strings.

     My life hath been the poem I would have writ,
     But I could not both live and live to utter it.[269]

In the Hindoo scripture the idea of man is quite illimitable and
sublime. There is nowhere a loftier conception of his destiny. He
is at length lost in Brahma himself, "the divine male." Indeed, the
distinction of races in this life is only the commencement of a series
of degrees which ends in Brahma.

The veneration in which the Vedas are held is itself a remarkable fact.
Their code embraced the whole moral life of the Hindoo, and in such a
case there is no other truth than sincerity. Truth is such by reference
to the heart of man within, not to any standard without. There is no
creed so false but faith can make it true.

In inquiring into the origin and genuineness of this scripture it is
impossible to tell when the divine agency in its composition ceased, and
the human began. "From fire, from air, and from the sun" was it "milked
out."

       *       *       *       *       *

There is no grander conception of creation anywhere. It is peaceful
as a dream,[270] and so is the annihilation of the world. It is such a
beginning and ending as the morning and evening, for they had learned
that God's methods are not violent. It was such an awakening as might
have been heralded by the faint dreaming chirp of the crickets before
the dawn.

The very indistinctness of its theogony implies a sublime truth. It does
not allow the reader to rest in any supreme first cause, but directly
hints of a supremer still which created the last. The creator is still
behind, increate.[271] The divinity is so fleeting that its attributes
are never expressed.


_Aug. 30._ What is a day, if the day's work be not done? What are the
divisions of time to them who have nothing to do? What is the present
or the future to him who has no occasion for them, who does not create
them by his industry?

       *       *       *       *       *

It is now easy to apply to this ancient scripture such a catholic
criticism as it will become the part of some future age to apply to the
Christian,—wherein the design and idea which underlies it is considered,
and not the narrow and partial fulfillment.

These verses are so eminently textual, that it seems as if those old
sages had concentrated all their wisdom in little fascicles, of which
future times were to be the commentary; as the light of this lower world
is only the dissipated rays of the sun and stars.[272] They seem to have
been uttered with a sober morning prescience, in the dawn of time.[273]
There is a sort of holding back, or withdrawal of the full meaning,
that the ages may follow after and explore the whole. The sentence opens
unexpensively and almost unmeaningly, as the petals of a flower.[274]

       *       *       *       *       *

To our nearsightedness this mere outward life seems a constituent part
of us, and we do not realize that as our soul expands it will cast off
the shell of routine and convention, which afterward will only be an
object for the cabinets of the curious. But of this people the temples
are now crumbled away, and we are introduced to the very hearth of
Hindoo life and to the primeval conventicle where how to eat and to
drink and to sleep were the questions to be decided.[275]

       *       *       *       *       *

The simple life herein described confers on us a degree of freedom even
in the perusal. We throw down our packs and go on our way unencumbered.
Wants so easily and gracefully satisfied that they seem like a more
refined pleasure and repleteness.[276]


_Sept. 1. Wednesday._ When I observe the effeminate taste of some of
my contemporaries in this matter of poetry, and how hardly they bear
with certain incongruities, I think if this age were consulted it would
not choose granite to be the backbone of the world, but Bristol spar or
Brazilian diamonds. But the verses which have consulted the refinements
even of a golden age will be found weak and nerveless for an iron one.
The poet is always such a Cincinnatus in literature as with republican
simplicity to raise all to the chiefest honors of the state.

Each generation thinks to inhabit only a west end of the world, and
have intercourse with a refined and civilized Nature, not conceiving
of her broad equality and republicanism. They think her aristocratic
and exclusive because their own estates are narrow. But the sun
indifferently selects his rhymes, and with a liberal taste weaves into
his verse the planet and the stubble.[277]

Let us know and conform only to the fashions of eternity.

       *       *       *       *       *

The very austerity of these Hindoos is tempting to the devotional
as a more refined and nobler luxury.[278] They seem to have indulged
themselves with a certain moderation and temperance in the severities
which their code requires, as divine exercises not to be excessively
used as yet. One may discover the root of a Hindoo religion in his own
private history, when, in the silent intervals of the day or the night,
he does sometimes inflict on himself like austerities with a stern
satisfaction.

The "Laws of Menu" are a manual of private devotion, so private and
domestic and yet so public and universal a word as is not spoken in
the parlor or pulpit in these days.[279] It is so impersonal that it
exercises our sincerity more than any other. It goes with us into the
yard and into the chamber, and is yet later spoken than the advice of
our mother and sisters.[280]


_Sept. 2. Thursday._ There is but one obligation, and that is the
obligation to obey the highest dictate. None can lay me under another
which will supersede this. The gods have given me these years without
any incumbrance; society has no mortgage on them. If any man assist
me in the way of the world, let him derive satisfaction from the deed
itself, for I think I never shall have dissolved my prior obligations
to God. Kindness repaid is thereby annulled. I would let his deed lie
as fair and generous as it was intended. The truly beneficent never
relapses into a creditor; his great kindness is still extended to
me and is never done. Of those noble deeds which have me for their
object I am only the most fortunate spectator, and would rather be the
abettor of their nobleness than stay their tide with the obstructions
of impatient gratitude. As true as action and reaction are equal, that
nobleness which was as wide as the universe will rebound not on him the
individual, but on the world. If any have been kind to me, what more do
they want? I cannot make them richer than they are. If they have not
been kind, they cannot take from me the privilege which they have not
improved. My obligations will be my lightest load, for that gratitude
which is of kindred stuff in me, expanding every pore, will easily
sustain the pressure. We walk the freest through the air we breathe.

       *       *       *       *       *

The sublime sentences of Menu carry us back to a time when purification
and sacrifice and self-devotion had a place in the faith of men, and
were not as now a superstition. They contain a subtle and refined
philosophy also, such as in these times is not accompanied with so lofty
and pure a devotion.

       *       *       *       *       *

I saw a green meadow in the midst of the woods to-day which looked as if
Dame Nature had set her foot there, and it had bloomed in consequence.
It was the print of her moccasin.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sometimes my thought rustles in midsummer as if ripe for the fall.[281]
I anticipate the russet hues and the dry scent of autumn, as the
feverish man dreams of balm and sage.

       *       *       *       *       *

I was informed to-day that no Hindoo tyranny presided at the framing
of the world,—that I am a freeman of the universe, and not sentenced to
any caste.[282]

       *       *       *       *       *

When I write verses I serve my thoughts as I do tumblers; I rap them to
see if they will ring.


_Sept. 3. Friday._ Next to Nature, it seems as if man's actions were the
most natural, they so gently accord with her. The small seines of flax
or hemp stretched across the shallow and transparent parts of the river
are no more intrusion than the cobweb in the sun. It is very slight and
refined outrage at most. I stay my boat in mid-current and look down in
the running water to see the civil meshes of his nets, and wonder how
the blustering people of the town could have done this elvish work. The
twine looks like a new river-weed and is to the river like a beautiful
memento of man, man's presence in nature discovered as silently and
delicately as Robinson discovered that there [were] savages on his
island by a footprint in the sand.[283]

       *       *       *       *       *

Moonlight is the best restorer of antiquity. The houses in the village
have a classical elegance as of the best days of Greece, and this
half-finished church reminds me of the Parthenon, or whatever is most
famous and excellent in art.[284] So serene it stands, reflecting
the moon, and intercepting the stars with its rafters, as if it were
refreshed by the dews of the night equally with me. By day Mr. Hosmer,
but by night Vitruvius rather. If it were always to stand in this mild
and sombre light it would be finished already. It is in progress by day
but completed by night, and already its designer is an old master. The
projecting rafter so carelessly left on the tower, holding its single
way through the sky, is quite architectural, and in the unnecessary
length of the joists and flooring of the staging around the walls there
is an artistic superfluity and grace. In these fantastic lines described
upon the sky there is no trifling or conceit. Indeed, the staging for
the most part is the only genuine native architecture and deserves to
stand longer than the building it surrounds. In this obscurity there are
no fresh colors to offend, and the light and shade of evening adorn the
new equally with the old.


_Sept. 4. Saturday._ I think I could write a poem to be called
"Concord." For argument I should have the River, the Woods, the
Ponds, the Hills, the Fields, the Swamps and Meadows, the Streets and
Buildings, and the Villagers. Then Morning, Noon, and Evening, Spring,
Summer, Autumn, and Winter, Night, Indian Summer, and the Mountains in
the Horizon.

       *       *       *       *       *

A book should be so true as to be intimate and familiar to all men,
as the sun to their faces,—such a word as is occasionally uttered to a
companion in the woods in summer, and both are silent.

       *       *       *       *       *

As I pass along the streets of the village on the day of our annual
fair, when the leaves strew the ground, I see how the trees keep just
such a holiday all the year. The lively spirits of their sap mount
higher than any plowboy's let loose that day. A walk in the autumn
woods, when, with serene courage, they are preparing for their winter
campaign, if you have an ear for the rustling of their camp or an eye
for the glancing of their armor, is more inspiring than the Greek or
Peninsular war.[285] Any grandeur may find society as great as itself
in the forest.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pond Hill.—I see yonder some men in a boat, which floats buoyantly amid
the reflections of the trees, like a feather poised in mid-air, or a
leaf wafted gently from its twig to the water without turning over. They
seem very delicately to have availed themselves of the natural laws, and
their floating there looks like a beautiful and successful experiment
in philosophy. It reminds me how much more refined and noble the life
of man might be made, how its whole economy might be as beautiful as a
Tuscan villa,[286]—a new and more catholic art, the art of life, which
should have its impassioned devotees and make the schools of Greece and
Rome to be deserted.


_Sept. 5. Saturday._ Barn.

     Greater is the depth of sadness
     Than is any height of gladness.

I cannot read much of the best poetry in prose or verse without feeling
that it is a partial and exaggerated plaint, rarely a carol as free
as Nature's. That content which the sun shines for between morning and
evening is unsung. The Muse solaces herself; she is not delighted but
consoled.[287] But there are times when we feel a vigor in our limbs,
and our thoughts are like a flowing morning light, and the stream
of our life without reflection shows long reaches of serene ripples.
And if we were to sing at such an hour, there would be no catastrophe
contemplated in our verse, no tragic element in it,[288] nor yet a
comic. For the life of the gods is not in any sense dramatic, nor can
be the subject of the drama; it is epic without beginning or end, an
eternal interlude without plot,—not subordinate one part to another,
but supreme as a whole, at once leaf and flower and fruit. At present
the highest strain is Hebraic. The church bell is the tone of all
religious thought, the most musical that men consent to sing. In the
youth of poetry, men love to praise the lark and the morning, but they
soon forsake the dews and skies for the nightingale and evening shades.
Without instituting a wider comparison I might say that in Homer there
is more of the innocence and serenity of youth than in the more modern
and moral poets. The Iliad is not Sabbath but morning reading, and men
cling to this old song, because they have still moments of unbaptized
and uncommitted life which give them an appetite for more. There is no
cant in him, as there is no religion. We read him with a rare sense of
freedom and irresponsibleness, as though we trod on native ground, and
were autochthones of the soil.[289]

       *       *       *       *       *

Through the fogs of this distant vale we look back and upward to the
source of song, whose crystal stream still ripples and gleams in the
clear atmosphere of the mountain's side.

       *       *       *       *       *

Some hours seem not to be occasion for anything, unless for great
resolves to draw breath and repose in, so religiously do we postpone
all action therein. We do not straight go about to execute our thrilling
purpose, but shut our doors behind us, and saunter with prepared mind,
as if the half were already done.[290]

Sometimes a day serves only to hold time together.[291]


_Sept. 12. Sunday._

     Where I have been
     There was none seen.


_Sept. 14._ No bravery is to be named with that which can face its own
deeds.

       *       *       *       *       *

In religion there is no society.

       *       *       *       *       *

Do not dissect a man till he is dead.

       *       *       *       *       *

Love does not analyze its object.

       *       *       *       *       *

We do not know the number of muscles in a caterpillar dead; much less
the faculties of a man living.

       *       *       *       *       *

You must believe that I know before you can tell me.

       *       *       *       *       *

To the highest communication I can make no reply; I lend only a silent
ear.


_Sept. 18. Saturday._ Barn.—It is a great event, the hearing of a bell
ring in one of the neighboring towns, particularly in the night. It
excites in me an unusual hilarity, and I feel that I am in season wholly
and enjoy a prime and leisure hour.


_Sept. 20. Monday._ Visited Sampson Wilder of Boston. His method of
setting out peach trees is as follows:—

Dig a hole six feet square and two deep, and remove the earth; cover
the bottom to the depth of six inches with lime and ashes in equal
proportions, and upon this spread another layer of equal thickness, of
horn parings, tips of horns, bones, and the like, then fill up with a
compost of sod and strong animal manure, say four bushels of hog manure
to a cartload of sod. Cover the tree—which should be budded at two years
old—but slightly, and at the end of two years dig a trench round it
three feet from the tree and six inches deep, and fill it with lime and
ashes.

For grapes:—

Let your trench be twelve feet wide and four deep, cover the bottom
with paving-stones six inches, then old bricks with mortar attached or
loose six inches more, then beef-bones, horns, etc., six more (Captain
Bobadil), then a compost similar to the preceding. Set your roots one
foot from the north side, the trench running east and west, and bury
eight feet of the vine crosswise the trench, not more than eight inches
below the surface. Cut it down for three or four years, that root may
accumulate, and then train it from the sun up an inclined plane.


_Sept. 28. Tuesday._ I anticipate the coming in of spring as a child
does the approach of some pomp through a gate of the city.


_Sept. 30._

     Better wait
     Than be too late.[292]


_Nov. 29. Cambridge._—One must fight his way, after a fashion, even in
the most civil and polite society. The most truly kind and gracious have
to be won by a sort of valor, for the seeds of suspicion seem to lurk in
every spadeful of earth, as well as those of confidence. The president
and librarian turn the cold shoulder to your application, though they
are known for benevolent persons. They wonder if you can be anything but
a thief, contemplating frauds on the library. It is the instinctive and
salutary principle of self-defense; that which makes the cat show her
talons when you take her by the paw.[293]

Certainly that valor which can open the hearts of men is superior to
that which can only open the gates of cities.[294]

You must always let people see that they serve themselves more than
you,—not by your ingratitude, but by sympathy and congratulation.

       *       *       *       *       *

The twenty-first volume of Chalmers's English Poets contains Hoole's
and Mickle's Translations. In the shape of a note to the Seventh Book
of the Lusiad, Mickle has written a long "Inquiry into the Religious
Tenets and Philosophy of the Bramins."


_Nov. 30. Tuesday._ Cambridge.—When looking over the dry and dusty
volumes of the English poets, I cannot believe that those fresh and
fair creations I had imagined are contained in them. English poetry
from Gower down, collected into one alcove, and so from the library
window compared with the commonest nature, seems very mean. Poetry
cannot breathe in the scholar's atmosphere. The Aubreys and Hickeses,
with all their learning, prophane it yet indirectly by their zeal. You
need not envy his feelings who for the first time has cornered up poetry
in an alcove. I can hardly be serious with myself when I remember that
I have come to Cambridge after poetry; and while I am running over
the catalogue and collating and selecting, I think if it would not be
a shorter way to a complete volume to step at once into the field or
wood, with a very low reverence to students and librarians. Milton did
not foresee what company he was to fall into.[295] On running over the
titles of these books, looking from time to time at their first pages
or farther, I am oppressed by an inevitable sadness. One must have come
into a library by an oriel window, as softly and undisturbed as the
light which falls on the books through a stained window, and not by the
librarian's door, else all his dreams will vanish. Can the Valhalla be
warmed by steam and go by clock and bell?

Good poetry seems so simple and natural a thing that when we meet it we
wonder that all men are not always poets. Poetry is nothing but healthy
speech. Though the speech of the poet goes to the heart of things,
yet he is that one especially who speaks civilly to Nature as a second
person and in some sense is the patron of the world. Though more than
any he stands in the midst of Nature, yet more than any he can stand
aloof from her. The best lines, perhaps, only suggest to me that that
man simply saw or heard or felt what seems the commonest fact in my
experience.

One will know how to appreciate Chaucer best who has come down to
him the natural way through the very meagre pastures of Saxon and
ante-Chaucerian poetry. So human and wise he seems after such diet that
we are as liable to misjudge him so as usually.[296]

       *       *       *       *       *

The Saxon poetry extant seems of a more serious and philosophical cast
than the very earliest that can be called English. It has more thought,
but less music. It translates Boëthius, it paraphrases the Hebrew Bible,
it solemnly sings of war, of life and death, and chronicles events.
The earliest English poetry is tinctured with romance through the
influence of the Normans, as the Saxon was not. The ballad and metrical
romance belong to this period. Those old singers were for the most part
imitators or translators.[297] Or will it not appear, when viewed at
a sufficient distance, that our brave new poets are also secondary as
they, and refer the eye that reads them and their poetry, too, back and
backward without end?

       *       *       *       *       *

Nothing is so attractive and unceasingly curious as character. There
is no plant that needs such tender treatment, there is none that will
endure so rough. It is the violet and the oak. It is the thing we mean,
let us say what we will. We mean our own character, or we mean yours.
It is divine and related to the heavens, as the earth is by the flashes
of the Aurora. It has no acquaintance nor companion. It goes silent
and unobserved longer than any planet in space, but when at length it
does show itself, it seems like the flowering of all the world, and
its before unseen orbit is lit up like the trail of a meteor. I hear
no good news ever but some trait of a noble character. It reproaches me
plaintively. I am mean in contrast, but again am thrilled and elevated
that I can see my own meanness, and again still, that my own aspiration
is realized in that other. You reach me, my friend, not by your kind or
wise words to me here or there; but as you retreat, perhaps after years
of vain familiarity, some gesture or unconscious action in the distance
speaks to me with more emphasis than all those years. I am not concerned
to know what eighth planet is wandering in space up there, or when Venus
or Orion rises, but if, in any cot to east or west and set behind the
woods, there is any planetary character illuminating the earth.

     Packed in my mind lie all the clothes
     Which outward nature wears,
     For, as its hourly fashions change,
     It all things else repairs.

     My eyes look inward, not without,
     And I but hear myself,
     And this new wealth which I have got
     Is part of my own pelf.

     For while I look for change abroad,
     I can no difference find,
     Till some new ray of peace uncalled
     Lumines my inmost mind,

     As, when the sun streams through the wood,
     Upon a winter's morn,
     Where'er his silent beams may stray
     The murky night is gone.

     How could the patient pine have known
     The morning breeze would come,
     Or simple flowers anticipate
     The insect's noonday hum,

     Till that new light with morning cheer
     From far streamed through the aisles,
     And nimbly told the forest trees
     For many stretching miles?[298]


_[Dec.] 12. Sunday._ All music is only a sweet striving to express
character. Now that lately I have heard of some traits in the character
of a fair and earnest maiden whom I had only known superficially, but
who has gone hence to make herself more known by distance, they sound
like strains of a wild harp music. They make all persons and places
who had thus forgotten her to seem late and behindhand. Every maiden
conceals a fairer flower and more luscious fruit than any calyx in the
field, and if she go with averted face, confiding in her own purity and
high resolves, she will make the heavens retrospective, and all nature
will humbly confess its queen.[299]

There is apology enough for all the deficiency and shortcoming in the
world in the patient waiting of any bud of character to unfold itself.

Only character can command our reverent love. It is all mysteries in
itself.

     What is it gilds the trees and clouds
     And paints the heavens so gay,
     But yonder fast-abiding light
     With its unchanging ray?


     I've felt within my inmost soul
     Such cheerful morning news,
     In the horizon of my mind
     I've seen such morning hues,

     As in the twilight of the dawn,
     When the first birds awake,
     Is heard within some silent wood
     Where they the small twigs break;

     Or in the eastern skies is seen
     Before the sun appears,
     Foretelling of the summer heats
     Which far away he bears.

P. M. Walden.—I seem to discern the very form of the wind when, blowing
over the hills, it falls in broad flakes upon the surface of the pond,
this subtle element obeying the same law with the least subtle. As it
falls it spreads itself like a mass of lead dropped upon an anvil. I
cannot help being encouraged by this blithe activity in the elements in
these degenerate days of men. Who hears the rippling of the rivers will
not utterly despair of anything. The wind in the wood yonder sounds like
an incessant waterfall, the water dashing and roaring among rocks.


_[Dec.] 13. Monday._ We constantly anticipate repose. Yet it surely
can only be the repose that is in entire and healthy activity. It must
be a repose without rust. What is leisure but opportunity for more
complete and entire action? Our energies pine for exercise. That time
we spend in our duties is so much leisure, so that there is no man but
has sufficient of it.

I make my own time, I make my own terms. I cannot see how God or Nature
can ever get the start of me.

       *       *       *       *       *

This ancient Scotch poetry, at which its contemporaries so marvelled,
sounds like the uncertain lisping of a child. When man's speech
flows freest it but stutters and stammers. There is never a free and
clear deliverance; but, read now when the illusion of smooth verse
is destroyed by the antique spelling, the sense is seen to stammer
and stumble all the plainer. To how few thoughts do all these sincere
efforts give utterance! An hour's conversation with these men would have
done more. I am astonished to find how meagre that diet is which has fed
so many men. The music of sound, which is all-sufficient at first, is
speedily lost, and then the fame of the poet must rest on the music of
the sense. A great philosophical and moral poet would give permanence
to the language by making the best sound convey the best sense.


_[Dec.] 14. Tuesday._ To hear the sunset described by the old Scotch
poet Douglas, as I have seen it, repays me for many weary pages of
antiquated Scotch. Nothing so restores and humanizes antiquity and makes
it blithe as the discovery of some natural sympathy between it and the
present. Why is it that there is something melancholy in antiquity? We
forget that it had any other future than our present. As if it were not
as near to _the_ future as ourselves! No, thank heavens, these ranks of
men to right and left, posterity and ancestry, are not to be thridded by
any earnest mortal. The heavens stood over the heads of our ancestors as
near as to us. Any living word in their books abolishes the difference
of time. It need only be considered from the present standpoint.


_[Dec.] 15. Wednesday._ A mild summer sun shines over forest and lake.
The earth looks as fair this morning as the Valhalla of the gods.
Indeed our spirits never go beyond nature. In the woods there is an
inexpressible happiness. Their mirth is but just repressed. In winter,
when there is but one green leaf for many rods, what warm content is in
them! They are not rude, but tender, even in the severest cold. Their
nakedness is their defense. All their sounds and sights are elixir to my
spirit. They possess a divine health. God is not more well. Every sound
is inspiriting and fraught with the same mysterious assurance, from the
creaking of the boughs in January to the soft sough of the wind in July.

How much of my well-being, think you, depends on the condition of my
lungs and stomach,—such cheap pieces of Nature as they, which, indeed,
she is every day reproducing with prodigality. Is the arrow indeed fatal
which rankles in the breast of the bird on the bough, in whose eye all
this fair landscape is reflected, and whose voice still echoes through
the wood?

The trees have come down to the bank to see the river go by. This
old, familiar river is renewed each instant; only the channel is the
same.[300] The water which so calmly reflects the fleeting clouds and
the primeval trees I have never seen before. It may have washed some
distant shore, or framed a glacier or iceberg at the north, when I last
stood here. Seen through a mild atmosphere, the works of the husbandman,
his plowing and reaping, have a beauty to the beholder which the laborer
never sees.[301]

I seem to see somewhat more of my own kith and kin in the lichens on
the rocks than in any books. It does seem as if mine were a peculiarly
wild nature, which so yearns toward all wildness. I know of no redeeming
qualities in me but a sincere love for some things, and when I am
reproved I have to fall back on to this ground.[302] This is my argument
in reserve for all cases. My love is invulnerable. Meet me on that
ground, and you will find me strong. When I am condemned, and condemn
myself utterly, I think straightway, "But I rely on my love for some
things." Therein I am whole and entire. Therein I am God-propped.

When I see the smoke curling up through the woods from some farmhouse
invisible, it is more suggestive of the poetry of rural and domestic
life than a nearer inspection can be. Up goes the smoke as quietly as
the dew exhales in vapor from these pine leaves and oaks; as busy,
disposing itself in circles and in wreaths, as the housewife on the
hearth below. It is cotemporary with a piece of human biography, and
waves as a feather in some _man's_ cap. Under that rod of sky there is
some plot a-brewing, some ingenuity has planted itself, and we shall see
what it will do. It tattles of more things than the boiling of the pot.
It is but one of man's breaths. All that is interesting in history or
fiction is transpiring beneath that cloud. The subject of all life and
death, of happiness and grief, goes thereunder.

  [Illustration: _Winter Landscape from Fair Haven Hill_]

When the traveller in the forest, attaining to some eminence, descries a
column of smoke in the distance, it is a very gentle hint to him of the
presence of man. It seems as if it would establish friendly relations
between them without more ado.[303]


_[Dec.] 18. Saturday._ Some men make their due impression upon their
generation, because a petty occasion is enough to call forth all their
energies; but are there not others who would rise to much higher levels,
whom the world has never provoked to make the effort? I believe there
are men now living who have never opened their mouths in a public
assembly, in whom nevertheless there is such a well of eloquence that
the appetite of any age could never exhaust it; who pine for an occasion
worthy of them, and will pine till they are dead; who can admire, as
well as the rest, at the flowing speech of the orator, but do yet miss
the thunder and lightning and visible sympathy of the elements which
would garnish their own utterance.

If in any strait I see a man fluttered and his ballast gone, then I
lose all hope of him, he is undone; but if he reposes still, though he
do nothing else worthy of him, if he is still a man in reserve, then is
there everything to hope of him. The age may well go pine itself that it
cannot put to use this gift of the gods. He lives on, still unconcerned,
not needing to be used. The greatest occasion will be the slowest to
come.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sometimes a particular body of men do unconsciously assert that their
will is fate, that the right is decided by their fiat without appeal,
and when this is the case they can never be mistaken; as when one man is
quite silenced by the thrilling eloquence of another, and submits to be
neglected as to his fate, because such is not the willful vote of the
assembly, but their instinctive decision.


_Dec. 23. Thursday._ Concord.—The best man's spirit makes a fearful
sprite to haunt his tomb. The ghost of a priest is no better than that
of a highwayman. It is pleasant to hear of one who has blest whole
regions after his death by having frequented them while alive, who has
prophaned or tabooed no place by being buried in it.[304] It adds not
a little to the fame of Little John that his grave was long "celebrous
for the yielding of excellent whetstones."[305]

A forest is in all mythologies a sacred place, as the oaks among the
Druids and the grove of Egeria; and even in more familiar and common
life a celebrated wood is spoken of with respect, as "Barnsdale Wood"
and "Sherwood." Had Robin Hood no Sherwood to resort [to], it would
be difficult to invest his story with the charms it has got. It is
always the tale that is untold, the deeds done and the life lived in
the unexplored secrecy of the wood, that charm us and make us children
again,—to read his ballads, and hear of the greenwood tree.


_Dec. 24. Friday._ I want to go soon and live away by the pond, where I
shall hear only the wind whispering among the reeds. It will be success
if I shall have left myself behind. But my friends ask what I will do
when I get there. Will it not be employment enough to watch the progress
of the seasons?[306]


_Dec. 25. Saturday._ It does seem as if Nature did for a long time
gently overlook the prophanity of man. The wood still kindly echoes
the strokes of the axe, and when the strokes are few and seldom, they
add a new charm to a walk. All the elements strive to _naturalize_ the
sound.[307]

Such is our sympathy with the seasons that we experience the same degree
of heat in the winter as in the summer.

It is not a true apology for any coarseness to say that it is natural.
The grim woods can afford to be very delicate and perfect in the
details.

I don't want to feel as if my life were a sojourn any longer. That
philosophy cannot be true which so paints it. It is time now that I
begin to live.


_Dec. 26. Sunday._ He is the rich man and enjoys the fruits of riches,
who, summer and winter forever, can find delight in the contemplation
of his soul. I could look as unweariedly up to that cope as into the
heavens of a summer day or a winter night. When I hear this bell ring,
I am carried back to years and Sabbaths when I was newer and more
innocent, I fear, than now, and it seems to me as if there were a world
within a world. Sin, I am sure, is not in overt acts or, indeed, in acts
of any kind, but is in proportion to the time which has come behind us
and displaced eternity,—that degree to which our elements are mixed with
the elements of the world. The whole duty of life is contained in the
question how to respire and aspire both at once.


_Dec. 29. Wednesday._ One does not soon learn the trade of life. That
one may work out a true life requires more art and delicate skill than
any other work. There is need of the nice fingers of the girl as well
as the tough hand of the farmer. The daily work is too often toughening
the pericarp of the heart as well as the hand. Great familiarity with
the world must be nicely managed, lest it win away and bereave us of
some susceptibility. Experience bereaves us of our innocence; wisdom
bereaves us of our ignorance. Let us walk in the world without learning
its ways. Whole weeks or months of my summer life slide away in thin
volumes like mist or smoke, till at length some warm morning, perchance,
I see a sheet of mist blown down the brook to the swamp, its shadow
flitting across the fields, which have caught a new significance from
that accident; and as that vapor is raised above the earth, so shall
the next weeks be elevated above the plane of the actual;[308] or when
the setting sun slants across the pastures, and the cows low to my
inward ear and only enhance the stillness, and the eve is as the dawn,
a beginning hour and not a final one, as if it would never have done,
with its clear western amber inciting men to lives of as limpid purity.
Then do other parts of my day's work shine than I had thought at noon,
for I discover the real purport of my toil, as, when the husbandman has
reached the end of the furrow and looks back, he can best tell where
the pressed earth shines most.[309]

       *       *       *       *       *

All true greatness runs as level a course, and is as unaspiring, as
the plow in the furrow. It wears the homeliest dress and speaks the
homeliest language. Its theme is gossamer and dew lines, johnswort
and loosestrife, for it has never stirred from its repose and is most
ignorant of foreign parts. Heaven is the inmost place. The good have
not to travel far. What cheer may we not derive from the thought that
our courses do not diverge, and we wend not asunder, but as the web of
destiny is woven it [is] fulled, and we are cast more and more into the
centre! And our fates even are social.[310] There is no wisdom which can
take [the] place of humanity, and I find that in old Chaucer that love
rings longest which rhymes best with some saw of Milton's or Edmunds's.
I wish I could be as still as God is. I can recall to my mind the
stillest summer hour, in which the grasshopper sings over the mulleins,
and there is a valor in that time the memory of which is armor that can
laugh at any blow of fortune. A man should go out [of] nature with the
chirp of the cricket or the trill of the veery ringing in his ear. These
earthly sounds should only die away for a season, as the strains of the
harp rise and swell. Death is that expressive pause in the music of the
blast.[311] I would be as clean as ye, O woods. I shall not rest till
I be as innocent as you. I know that I shall sooner or later attain to
an unspotted innocence, for when I consider that state even now I am
thrilled.

If we were wise enough, we should see to what virtue we were indebted
for any happier moment we might have, nor doubt we had earned this at
some time.

These motions everywhere in nature must surely [be] the circulations of
God. The flowing sail, the running stream, the waving tree, the roving
wind,—whence else their infinite health and freedom?[312] I can see
nothing so proper and holy as unrelaxed play and frolic in this bower
God has built for us. The suspicion of sin never comes to this thought.
Oh, if men felt this they would never build temples even of marble
or diamond, but it would be sacrilege and prophane, but disport them
forever in this paradise.

In the coldest day it melts somewhere.

It seems as if only one trait, one little incident in human biography,
need to be said or written in some era, that all readers may go mad
after it, and the man who did the miracle is made a demigod henceforth.
What we all do, not one can tell; and when some lucky speaker utters a
truth of our experience and not of our speculation, we think he must
have had the nine Muses and the three Graces to help him. I can at
length stretch me when I come to Chaucer's breadth; and I think, "Well,
I could be _that_ man's acquaintance,"[313] for he walked in that low
and retired way that I do, and was not too good to live. I am grieved
when they hint of any unmanly submissions he may have made, for that
subtracts from his breadth and humanity.


_Dec. 30. Thursday._ I admire Chaucer for a sturdy English wit. The easy
height he speaks from in his Prologue to the Canterbury Tales is as good
as anything in it,—as if he were indeed better than any of the company
there assembled.[314]

The poet does not have to go out of himself and cease to tattle of his
domestic affairs, to win our confidence, but is so broad that we see no
limits to his sympathy.

Great delicacy and gentleness of character is constantly displayed in
Chaucer's verse. The simplest and humblest words come readily to his
lips. The natural innocence of the man appears in the simple and pure
spirit in which "The Prioresses Tale" is conceived, in which the child
sings _O alma redemptoris mater_, and in the account of the departure of
Custance with her child upon the sea, in "The Man of Lawes Tale."[315]
The whole story of Chanticleer and Dame Partlet in "The Nonnes Preestes
Tale" is genuine humanity. I know nothing better in its kind. The poets
seem to be only more frank and plain-spoken than other men. Their verse
is but confessions. They always confide in the reader, and speak privily
with him, keeping nothing back.[316]

I know of no safe rule by which to judge of the purity of a former age
but that I see that the impure of the present age are not apt to rise
to noble sentiments when they speak or write, and suspect, therefore,
that there may be more truth than is allowed in the apology that such
was the manner of the age.[317]

     Within the circuit of this plodding life,
     There are moments of an azure hue
     And as unspotted fair as is the violet
     Or anemone, when the spring strews them
     By some south woodside; which make untrue
     The best philosophy which has so poor an aim
     But to console man for his grievance here.
     I have remembered when the winter came,
     High in my chamber in the frosty nights,
     How in the summer past some
     Unrecorded beam slanted across
     Some upland pasture where the Johnswort grew,
     Or heard, amidst the verdure of my mind, the bee's
          long-smothered hum,
     So by the cheap economy of God made rich to go upon
          my wintry work again.
     In the still, cheerful cold of winter nights,
     When, in the cold light of the moon,
     On every twig and rail and jutting spout
     The icy spears are doubling their length
     Against the glancing arrows of the sun,
     And the shrunk wheels creak along the way,
     Some summer accident long past
     Of lakelet gleaming in the July beams,
     Or hum of bee under the blue flag,
     Loitering in the meads, or busy rill
     which now stands dumb and still,
     its own memorial, purling at its play along the slopes,
     and through the meadows next, till that its sound was
     quenched in the staid current of its parent stream.

In memory is the more reality. I have seen how the furrows shone but
late upturned, and where the fieldfare followed in the rear, when all
the fields stood bound and hoar beneath a thick integument of snow.[318]

       *       *       *       *       *

When the snow is falling thick and fast, the flakes nearest you seem
to be driving straight to the ground, while the more distant seem to
float in the air in a quivering bank, like feathers, or like birds at
play, and not as if sent on any errand. So, at a little distance, all
the works of Nature proceed with sport and frolic. They are more in the
eye and less in the deed.


_Dec. 31. Friday._ Books of natural history make the most cheerful
winter reading. I read in Audubon with a thrill of delight, when
the snow covers the ground, of the magnolia, and the Florida keys,
and their warm sea breezes; of the fence-rail, and the cotton-tree,
and the migrations of the rice-bird; or of the breaking up of winter
in Labrador. I seem to hear the melting of the snow on the forks of
the Missouri as I read. I imbibe some portion of health from these
reminiscences of luxuriant nature.

There is a singular health for me in those words Labrador and East
Main which no desponding creed recognizes. How much more than federal
are these States! If there were no other vicissitudes but the seasons,
with their attendant and consequent changes, our interest would never
flag. Much more is a-doing than Congress wots of in the winter season.
What journal do the persimmon and buckeye keep, or the sharp-shinned
hawk? What is transpiring from summer to winter in the Carolinas,
and the Great Pine Forest, and the Valley of the Mohawk? The merely
political aspect of the land is never very cheering. Men are degraded
when considered as the members of a political organization. As a nation
the people never utter one great and healthy word. From this side all
nations present only the symptoms of disease. I see but Bunker's Hill
and Sing Sing, the District of Columbia and Sullivan's Island, with a
few avenues connecting them. But paltry are all these beside one blast
of the east or south wind which blows over them all.

In society you will not find health, but in nature. You must converse
much with the field and woods, if you would imbibe such health into your
mind and spirit as you covet for your body. Society is always diseased,
and the best is the sickest. There is no scent in it so wholesome as
that of the pines, nor any fragrance so penetrating and restorative as
that of everlasting in high pastures. Without that our feet at least
stood in the midst of nature, all our faces would be pale and livid.

I should like to keep some book of natural history always by me as
a sort of elixir, the reading of which would restore the tone of my
system and secure me true and cheerful views of life. For to the sick,
nature is sick, but to the well, a fountain of health. To the soul that
contemplates some trait of natural beauty no harm nor disappointment
can come. The doctrines of despair, of spiritual or political servitude,
no priestcraft nor tyranny, was ever [_sic_] taught by such as drank in
the harmony of nature.[319]




VI

1842

(ÆT. 24-25)


_Jan. 1._ Virtue is the deed of the bravest. It is that art which
demands the greatest confidence and fearlessness. Only some hardy
soul ventures upon it. Virtue is a bravery so hardy that it deals in
what it has no experience in. The virtuous soul possesses a fortitude
and hardihood which not the grenadier nor pioneer can match. It never
shrunk. It goes singing to its work. Effort is its relaxation. The rude
pioneer work of this world has been done by the most devoted worshippers
of beauty.[320] Their resolution has possessed a keener edge than the
soldier's. In winter is their campaign; they never go into quarters.
They are elastic under the heaviest burden, under the extremest physical
suffering.

Methinks good courage will not flag here on the Atlantic border as long
as we are outflanked by the _Fur Countries_. There is enough in that
sound to cheer one under any circumstances. The spruce, the hemlock,
and the pine will not countenance despair. Methinks some creeds in
vestries and churches do forget the hunter wrapped in furs by the
Great Slave Lake, or how the Esquimaux sledges are drawn by dogs, and
in the twilight of the northern night the hunter does not give over
to follow the seal and walrus over the ice. These men are sick and
of diseased imaginations who would toll the world's knell so soon.
Cannot these sedentary sects do better than prepare the shrouds and
write the epitaphs of those other busy living men? The practical faith
of men belies the preacher's consolation. This is the creed of the
hypochondriac.[321]

There is no infidelity so great as that which prays, and keeps the
Sabbath, and founds churches. The sealer of the South Pacific preaches
a truer doctrine. The church is the hospital for men's souls, but the
reflection that he may one day occupy a ward in it should not discourage
the cheerful labors of the able-bodied man. Let him remember the sick
in their extremities, but not look thither as to his goal.[322]


_Jan. 2. Sunday._ The ringing of the church bell is a much more
melodious sound than any that is heard within the church. All great
values are thus public, and undulate like sound through the atmosphere.
Wealth cannot purchase any great private solace or convenience. Riches
are only the means of sociality. I will depend on the extravagance
of my neighbors for my luxuries, for they will take care to pamper
me if I will be overfed. The poor man who sacrificed nothing for the
gratification seems to derive a safer and more natural enjoyment from
his neighbor's extravagance than he does himself. It is a new natural
product, from the contemplation of which he derives new vigor and solace
as from a natural phenomenon.

In moments of quiet and leisure my thoughts are more apt to revert to
some natural than any human relation.

Chaucer's sincere sorrow in his latter days for the grossness of
his earlier works, and that he "cannot recall and annul" what he had
"written of the base and filthy love of men towards women; but alas they
are now continued from man to man," says he, "and I cannot do what I
desire," is all very creditable to his character.

Chaucer is the make-weight of his century,—a worthy representative
of England while Petrarch and Boccaccio lived in Italy, and Tell and
Tamerlane in Switzerland and Asia, and Bruce and Rienzi in Europe, and
Wickliffe and Gower in his own land. Edward III and John of Gaunt and
the Black Prince complete the company. The fame of Roger Bacon came
down from the preceding century, and Dante, though just departed, still
exerted the influence of a living presence.[323]

With all his grossness he is not undistinguished for the tenderness
and delicacy of his muse. A simple pathos and feminine gentleness is
peculiar to him which not even Wordsworth can match.[324] And then his
best passages of length are marked by a happy and healthy wit which is
rather rare in the poetry of any nation. On the whole, he impresses
me as greater than his reputation, and not a little like Homer and
Shakespeare, for he would have held up his head in their company. Among
the earliest English poets he is their landlord and host, and has the
authority of such. We read him with affection and without criticism,
for he pleads no cause, but speaks for us, his readers, always. He has
that greatness of trust and reliance which compels popularity. He is
for a whole country and country [_sic_] to know and to be proud of.
The affectionate mention which succeeding early poets make of him,
coupling him with Homer and Virgil, is also to be taken into the account
in estimating his character. King James and Dunbar of Scotland speak
with more love and reverence of him than any cotemporary poet of his
predecessors of the last century. That childlike relation, indeed, does
not seem to exist now which was then.[325]


_Jan. 3. Monday._ It is pleasant when one can relieve the grossness of
the kitchen and the table by the simple beauty of his repast, so that
there may be anything in it to attract the eye of the artist even. I
have been popping corn to-night, which is only a more rapid blossoming
of the seed under a greater than July heat. The popped corn is a perfect
winter flower, hinting of anemones and houstonias. For this little grace
man has, mixed in with the vulgarness of his repast, he may well thank
his stars. The law by which flowers unfold their petals seems only to
have operated more suddenly under the intense heat. It looks like a
sympathy in this seed of the corn with its sisters of the vegetable
kingdom, as if by preference it assumed the flower form rather than the
crystalline. Here has bloomed for my repast such a delicate blossom as
will soon spring by the wall-sides. And this is as it should be. Why
should not Nature revel sometimes, and genially relax and make herself
familiar at my board? I would have my house a bower fit to entertain
her. It is a feast of such innocence as might have snowed down. By my
warm hearth sprang these cerealious blossoms; here was the bank where
they grew.

Methinks some such visible token of approval would always accompany the
simple and healthy repast. There would be such a smiling and blessing
upon it. Our appetite should always be so related to our taste, and the
board we spread for its gratification be an epitome of the universal
table which Nature sets by hill and wood and stream for her dumb
pensioners.[326]


_Jan. 5. Wednesday._ I find that whatever hindrances may occur I write
just about the same amount of truth in my Journal; for the record
is more concentrated, and usually it is some very real and earnest
life, after all, that interrupts. All flourishes are omitted. If I saw
wood from morning to night, though I grieve that I could not observe
the train of my thoughts during that time, yet, in the evening, the
few scrannel lines which describe my day's occupations will make the
creaking of the saw more musical than my freest fancies could have been.
I find incessant labor with the hands, which engrosses the attention
also, the best method to remove palaver out of one's style. One will
not dance at his work who has wood to cut and cord before the night
falls in the short days of winter; but every stroke will be husbanded,
and ring soberly through the wood; and so will his lines ring and tell
on the ear, when at evening he settles the accounts of the day. I have
often been astonished at the force and precision of style to which
busy laboring men, unpracticed in writing, easily attain when they
are required to make the effort. It seems as if their sincerity and
plainness were the main thing to be taught in schools,—and yet not in
the schools, but in the fields, in actual service, I should say. The
scholar not unfrequently envies the propriety and emphasis with which
the farmer calls to his team, and confesses that if that lingo were
written it would surpass his labored sentences.

Who is not tired of the weak and flowing periods of the politician
and scholar, and resorts not even to the Farmer's Almanac, to read the
simple account of the month's labor, to restore his tone again? I want
to see a sentence run clear through to the end, as deep and fertile
as a well-drawn furrow which shows that the plow was pressed down to
the beam. If our scholars would lead more earnest lives, we should not
witness those lame conclusions to their ill-sown discourses, but their
sentences would pass over the ground like loaded rollers, and not mere
hollow and wooden ones, to press in the seed and make it germinate.

A well-built sentence, in the rapidity and force with which it works,
may be compared to a modern corn-planter, which furrows out, drops the
seed, and covers it up at one movement.[327]

The scholar requires hard labor as an impetus to his pen. He will learn
to grasp it as firmly and wield it as gracefully and effectually as an
axe or a sword. When I consider the labored periods of some gentleman
scholar, who perchance in feet and inches comes up to the standard of
his race, and is nowise deficient in girth, I am amazed at the immense
sacrifice of thews and sinews. What! these proportions and these bones,
and this their work! How these hands hewed this fragile matter, mere
filagree or embroidery fit for ladies' fingers! Can this be a stalwart
man's work, who has marrow in his backbone and a tendon Achilles in his
heel? They who set up Stonehenge did somewhat,—much in comparison,—if
it were only their strength was once fairly laid out, and they stretched
themselves.[328]

I discover in Raleigh's verses the vices of the courtier. They are
not equally sustained, as if his noble genius were warped by the
frivolous society of the court. He was capable of rising to a remarkable
elevation. His poetry has for the most part a heroic tone and vigor
as of a knight errant. But again there seems to have been somewhat
unkindly in his education, and as if he had by no means grown up to be
the man he promised. He was apparently too genial and loyal a soul, or
rather he was incapable of resisting temptations from that quarter. If
to his genius and culture he could have added the temperament of Fox or
Cromwell, the world would have had cause longer to remember him. He was
the pattern of nobility. One would have said it was by some lucky fate
that he and Shakespeare flourished at the same time in England, and yet
what do we know of their acquaintanceship?


_Jan. 7. Friday._ I am singularly refreshed in winter when I hear tell
of service-berries, pokeweed, juniper. Is not heaven made up of these
cheap summer glories?[329]

The great God is very calm withal. How superfluous is any excitement
in his creatures! He listens equally to the prayers of the believer
and the unbeliever. The moods of man should unfold and alternate as
gradually and placidly as those of nature. The sun shines for aye! The
sudden revolutions of these times and this generation have acquired a
very exaggerated importance. They do not interest me much, for they are
not in harmony with the longer periods of nature. The present, in any
aspect in which it can be presented to the smallest audience, is always
mean. God does not sympathize with the popular movements.


_Jan. 8. Saturday._ When, as now, in January a south wind melts
the snow, and the bare ground appears, covered with sere grass and
occasionally wilted green leaves which seem in doubt whether to let go
their greenness quite or absorb new juices against the coming year,—in
such a season a perfume seems to exhale from the earth itself and the
south wind melts my integuments also. Then is she my mother earth. I
derive a real vigor from the scent of the gale wafted over the naked
ground, as from strong meats, and realize again how man is the pensioner
of Nature. We are always conciliated and cheered when we are fed by
[such] an influence, and our needs are felt to be part of the domestic
economy of Nature.

       *       *       *       *       *

What offends me most in my compositions is the moral element in them.
The repentant say never a brave word. Their resolves should be mumbled
in silence. Strictly speaking, morality is not healthy. Those undeserved
joys which come uncalled and make us more pleased than grateful are they
that sing.

       *       *       *       *       *

One music seems to differ from another chiefly in its more perfect time,
to use this word in a true sense. In the steadiness and equanimity of
music lies its divinity. It is the only assured tone.[330] When men
attain to speak with as settled a faith and as firm assurance, their
voices will sing and their feet march as do the feet of the soldier.
The very dogs howl if time is disregarded. Because of the perfect
time of this music-box—its harmony with itself—is its greater dignity
and stateliness. This music is more nobly related for its more exact
measure. So simple a difference as this more even pace raises it to the
higher dignity.

Man's progress through nature should have an accompaniment of music. It
relieves the scenery, which is seen through it as a subtler element,
like a very clear morning air in autumn. Music wafts me through the
clear, sultry valleys, with only a slight gray vapor against the hills.

Of what manner of stuff is the web of time wove, when these consecutive
sounds called a strain of music can be wafted down through the centuries
from Homer to me, and Homer have been conversant with that same
unfathomable mystery and charm which so newly tingles my ears?[331]
These single strains, these melodious cadences which plainly proceed
out of a very deep meaning and a sustained soul, are the interjections
of God. They are perhaps the expression of the perfect knowledge which
the righteous at length attain to. Am I so like thee, my brother, that
the cadence of two notes affects us alike? Shall I not some time have
an opportunity to thank him who made music? I feel a sad cheer when I
hear these lofty strains,[332] because there must be something in me as
lofty that hears. But ah, I hear them but rarely! Does it not rather
hear me? If my blood were clogged in my veins, I am sure it would run
more freely. God must be very rich, who, for the turning of a pivot,
can pour out such melody on me. It is a little prophet; it tells me
the secrets of futurity. Where are its secrets wound up but in this
box?[333] So much hope had slumbered. There are in music such strains
as far surpass any faith in the loftiness of man's destiny.[334] He must
be very sad before he can comprehend them. The clear, liquid notes from
the morning fields beyond seem to come through a vale of sadness to man,
which gives all music a plaintive air. It hath caught a higher pace than
any virtue I know. It is the arch-reformer. It hastens the sun to his
setting. It invites him to his rising. It is the sweetest reproach, a
measured satire. I know there is a people somewhere [where] this heroism
has place. Or else things are to be learned which it will be sweet
to learn.[335] This cannot be all rumor. When I hear this, I think of
that everlasting and stable something which is not sound, but to be a
thrilling reality, and can consent to go about the meanest work for as
many years of time as it pleases even the Hindoo penance, for a year
of the gods were as nothing to that which shall come after. What, then,
can I do to hasten that other time, or that space where there shall be
no time, and these things be a more living part of my life,—where there
will be no discords in my life?


_Jan. 9. Sunday._ One cannot too soon forget his errors and
misdemeanors; for [to] dwell long upon them is to add to the offense,
and repentance and sorrow can only be displaced by somewhat better,
and which is as free and original as if they had not been. Not to
grieve long for any action, but to go immediately and do freshly and
otherwise, subtracts so much from the wrong. Else we may make the delay
of repentance the punishment of the sin. But a great nature will not
consider its sins as its own, but be more absorbed in the prospect of
that valor and virtue for the future which is more properly it, than in
those improper actions which, by being sins, discover themselves to be
not it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sir W. Raleigh's faults are those of a courtier and a soldier. In his
counsels and aphorisms we see not unfrequently the haste and rashness
of a boy. His philosophy was not wide nor deep, but continually giving
way to the generosity of his nature. What he touches he adorns by his
greater humanity and native nobleness, but he touches not the true nor
original. He thus embellishes the old, but does not unfold the new. He
seems to have been fitted by his genius for short flights of impulsive
poetry, but not for the sustained loftiness of Shakespeare or Milton.
He was not wise nor a seer in any sense, but rather one of nature's
nobility; the most generous nature which can be spared to linger in the
purlieus of the court.

His was a singularly perverted genius, with such an inclination to
originality and freedom, and yet who never steered his own course. Of
so fair and susceptible a nature, rather than broad or deep, that he
delayed to slake his thirst at the nearest and even more turbid wells
of truth and beauty. Whose homage to the least fair or noble left no
space for homage to the all fair. The misfortune of his circumstances,
or rather of the man, appears in the fact that he was the author of
"Maxims of State" and "The Cabinet Council" and "The Soul's Errand."


_Feb. 19. Saturday._ I never yet saw two men sufficiently great to meet
as two. In proportion as they are great the differences are fatal,
because they are felt not to be partial but total. Frankness to him
who is unlike me will lead to the utter denial of him. I begin to see
how that the preparation for all issues is to do virtuously. When two
approach to meet, they incur no petty dangers, but they run terrible
risks. Between the sincere there will be no civilities. No greatness
seems prepared for the little decorum, even savage unmannerliness, it
meets from equal greatness.


_Feb. 20. Sunday._ "Examine animal forms geometrically, from man, who
represents the perpendicular, to the reptile which forms the horizontal
line, and then applying to those forms the rules of the exact sciences,
which God himself cannot change, we shall see that visible nature
contains them all; that the combinations of the seven primitive forms
are entirely exhausted, and that, therefore, they can represent all
possible varieties of morality."—From "The True Messiah; or the Old and
New Testaments, examined according to the Principles of the Language of
Nature. By G. Segger," translated from French by Grater.

       *       *       *       *       *

I am amused to see from my window here how busily man has divided and
staked off his domain. God must smile at his puny fences running hither
and thither everywhere over the land.

       *       *       *       *       *

My path hitherto has been like a road through a diversified country,
now climbing high mountains, then descending into the lowest vales.
From the summits I saw the heavens; from the vales I looked up to the
heights again. In prosperity I remember God, or memory is one with
consciousness; in adversity I remember my own elevations, and only hope
to see God again.

It is vain to talk. What do you want? To bandy words, or deliver some
grains of truth which stir within you? Will you make a pleasant rumbling
sound after feasting, for digestion's sake, or such music as the birds
in springtime?

       *       *       *       *       *

The death of friends should inspire us as much as their lives. If they
are great and rich enough, they will leave consolation to the mourners
before the expenses of their funerals.[336] It will not be hard to part
with any worth, because it is worthy. How can any good depart? It does
not go and come, but we. Shall we wait for it? Is it slower than we?


_Feb. 21._ I must confess there is nothing so strange to me as my own
body. I love any other piece of nature, almost, better.

I was always conscious of sounds in nature which my ears could never
hear,—that I caught but the prelude to a strain. She always retreats as
I advance. Away behind and behind is she and her meaning. Will not this
faith and expectation make to itself ears at length? I never saw to the
end, nor heard to the end; but the best part was unseen and unheard.

I am like a feather floating in the atmosphere; on every side is depth
unfathomable.

I feel as if years had been crowded into the last month,[337] and yet
the regularity of what we call time has been so far preserved as that
I[338] ... will be welcome in the present. I have lived ill for the
most part because too near myself. I have tripped myself up, so that
there was no progress for my own narrowness. I cannot walk conveniently
and pleasantly but when I hold myself far off in the horizon. And the
soul dilutes the body and makes it passable. My soul and body have
tottered along together of late, tripping and hindering one another like
unpracticed Siamese twins. They two should walk as one, that no obstacle
may be nearer than the firmament.

       *       *       *       *       *

There must be some narrowness in the soul that compels one to have
secrets.


_Feb. 23. Wednesday._ Every poet's muse is circumscribed in her
wanderings, and may be well said to haunt some favorite spring or
mountain. Chaucer seems to have been the poet of gardens. He has hardly
left a poem in which some retired and luxurious retreat of the kind is
not described, to which he gains access by some secret port, and there,
by some fount or grove, is found his hero and the scene of his tale. It
seems as if, by letting his imagination riot in the matchless beauty
of an ideal garden, he thus fed [_sic_] his fancy on to the invention
of a tale which would fit the scene. The muse of the most universal
poet retires into some familiar nook, whence it spies out the land as
the eagle from his eyrie, for he who sees so far over plain and forest
is perched in a narrow cleft of the crag. Such pure childlike love of
Nature is nowhere to be matched.[339] And it is not strange that the
poetry of so rude an age should contain such polished praise of Nature;
for the charms of Nature are not enhanced by civilization, as society
is, but she possesses a permanent refinement, which at last subdues and
educates men.

The reader has great confidence in Chaucer. He tells no lies. You read
his story with a smile, as if it were the circumlocution of a child,
and yet you find that he has spoke with more directness and economy of
words than a sage. He is never heartless. So new was all his theme in
those days, that [he] had not to invent, but only to tell.[340]

The language of poetry is _infantile_. It cannot talk.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is the charm and greatness of all society, from friendship to the
drawing-room, that it takes place on a level slightly higher than the
actual characters of the parties would warrant;[341] it is an expression
of faith. True politeness is only hope and trust in men. It never
addresses a fallen or falling man, but salutes a rising generation. It
does not flatter, but only congratulates. The rays of light come to us
in such a curve that every fellow in the street appears higher than he
really is. It is the innate civility of nature.[342]

       *       *       *       *       *

I am glad that it was so because it could be.


_March 1._ Whatever I learn from any circumstances, that especially I
needed to know. Events come out of God, and our characters determine
them and constrain fate, as much as they determine the words and tone
of a friend to us. Hence are they always acceptable as experience, and
we do not see how we could have done without them.


_March 2._ The greatest impression of character is made by that
person who consents to have no character. He who sympathizes with and
runs through the whole circle of attributes cannot afford to be an
individual. Most men stand pledged to themselves, so that their narrow
and confined virtue has no suppleness. They are like children who cannot
walk in bad company and learn the lesson which even it teaches, without
their guardians, for fear of contamination. He is a fortunate man who
gets through the world without being burthened by a name and reputation,
for they are at any rate but his past history and no prophecy, and as
such concern him no more than another. Character is Genius settled. It
can maintain itself against the world, and if it relapses it repents.
It is as a dog set to watch the property of Genius. Genius, strictly
speaking, is not responsible, for it is not moral.


_March 8._ I live in the perpetual verdure of the globe. I die in the
annual decay of nature.

We can understand the phenomenon of death in the animal better if we
first consider it in the order next below us, the vegetable.

The death of the flea and the elephant are but phenomena of the life of
nature.

       *       *       *       *       *

Most lecturers preface their discourses on music with a history of
music, but as well introduce an essay on virtue with a history of
virtue.[343] As if the possible combinations of sound, the last wind
that sighed, or melody that waked the wood, had any history other than
a perceptive ear might hear in the least and latest sound of nature!
A history of music would be like the history of the future; for so
little past is it, and capable of record, that it is but the hint of a
prophecy. It is the history of gravitation. It has no history more than
God. It circulates and resounds forever, and only flows like the sea
or air. There might be a history of men or of hearing, but not of the
unheard. Why, if I should sit down to write its story, the west wind
would rise to refute me. Properly speaking, there can be no history but
natural history, for there is no past in the soul but in nature. So that
the history of anything is only the true account of it, which will be
always the same. I might as well write the history of my aspirations.
Does not the last and highest contain them all? Do the lives of the
great composers contain the facts which interested them? What is this
music? Why, thinner and more evanescent than ether; subtler than sound,
for it is only a disposition of sound. It is to sound what color is to
matter. It is the color of a flame, or of the rainbow, or of water. Only
one sense has known it. The least profitable, the least tangible fact,
which cannot be bought or cultivated but by virtuous methods, and yet
our ears ring with it like shells left on the shore.


_March 11. Friday._ Chaucer's familiar, but innocent, way of speaking of
God is of a piece with his character. He comes readily to his thoughts
without any false reverence. If Nature is our mother, is not God much
more? God should come into our thoughts with no more parade than the
zephyr into our ears. Only strangers approach him with ceremony. How
rarely in our English tongue do we find expressed any affection for
God! No sentiment is so rare as love of God,—universal love. Herbert
is almost the only exception. "Ah, my dear God," etc. Chaucer's was a
remarkably affectionate genius. There is less love and simple trust in
Shakespeare. When he sees a beautiful person or object, he almost takes
a pride in the "maistry" of his God.[344] The Protestant Church seems to
have nothing to supply the place of the Saints of the Catholic calendar,
who were at least channels for the affections. Its God has perhaps too
many of the attributes of a Scandinavian deity.

       *       *       *       *       *

We can only live healthily the life the gods assign us. I must receive
my life as passively as the willow leaf that flutters over the brook. I
must not be for myself, but God's work, and that is always good. I will
wait the breezes patiently, and grow as Nature shall determine. My fate
cannot but be grand so. We may live the life of a plant or an animal,
without living an animal life. This constant and universal content of
the animal comes of resting quietly in God's palm. I feel as if [I]
could at any time resign my life and the responsibility of living into
God's hands, and become as innocent, free from care, as a plant or
stone.

My life, my life! why will you linger? Are the years short and the
months of no account? How often has long delay quenched my aspirations!
Can God afford that I should forget him? Is he so indifferent to my
career? Can heaven be postponed with no more ado? Why were my ears given
to hear those everlasting strains which haunt my life, and yet to be
prophaned much more by these perpetual dull sounds?

       *       *       *       *       *

Our doubts are so musical that they persuade themselves.

Why, God, did you include me in your great scheme? Will you not make me
a partner at last? Did it need there should be a conscious material?

       *       *       *       *       *

My friend, my friend, I'd speak so frank to thee that thou wouldst pray
me to keep back some part, for fear I robbed myself. To address thee
delights me, there is such cleanness in the delivery. I am delivered of
my tale, which, told to strangers, still would linger on my lips as if
untold, or doubtful how it ran.


_March 12._ Consider what a difference there is between living and
dying. To die is not to _begin_ to die, and _continue_; it is not a
state of continuance, but of transientness; but to live is a condition
of continuance, and does not mean to be born merely. There is no
continuance of death. It is a transient phenomenon. Nature presents
nothing in a state of death.


_March 13. Sunday._ The sad memory of departed friends is soon incrusted
over with sublime and pleasing thoughts, as their monuments are
overgrown with moss.[345] Nature doth thus kindly heal every wound. By
the mediation of a thousand little mosses and fungi, the most unsightly
objects become radiant of beauty. There seem to be two sides to this
world, presented us at different times, as we see things in growth or
dissolution, in life or death. For seen with the eye of a poet, as God
sees them, all are alive and beautiful; but seen with the historical
eye, or the eye of the memory, they are dead and offensive. If we see
Nature as pausing, immediately all mortifies and decays; but seen as
progressing, she is beautiful.

       *       *       *       *       *

I am startled that God can make me so rich even with my own cheap
stores. It needs but a few wisps of straw in the sun, or some small word
dropped, or that has long lain silent in some book. When heaven begins
and the dead arise, no trumpet is blown; perhaps the south wind will
blow. What if you or I be dead! God is alive still.


_March 14._ Chaucer's genius does not soar like Milton's, but is
genial and familiar. It is only a greater portion of humanity, with
all its weakness. It is not heroic, as Raleigh, or pious, as Herbert,
or philosophical, as Shakespeare, but the child of the English nation,
but that child that is "father of the man." His genius is only for the
most part an exceeding naturalness. It is perfect sincerity, though with
the behavior of a child rather than of a man.[346] He can complain, as
in the "Testament of Love," but yet so truly and unfeignedly that his
complaint does not fail to interest. All England has his case at heart.

He shows great tenderness and delicacy, but not the heroic sentiment.
His genius was feminine, not masculine,—not but such is rarest to find
in woman (though the appreciation of it is not),—but less manly than
the manliest.[347]

       *       *       *       *       *

It is not easy to find one brave enough to play the game of love quite
alone with you, but they must get some third person, or world, to
countenance them. They thrust others between. Love is so delicate and
fastidious that I see not how [it] can ever begin. Do you expect me to
love with you, unless you make my love secondary to nothing else? Your
words come tainted, if the thought of the world darted between thee and
the thought of me. You are not venturous enough for love. It goes alone
unscared through wildernesses.

As soon as I see people loving what they see merely, and not their own
high hopes that they form of others, I pity, and do not want their love.
Such love delays me. Did I ask thee to love me who hate myself? No! Love
that I love, and I will love thee that lovest it.

The love is faint-hearted and short-lived that is contented with the
past history of its object. It does not prepare the soil to bear new
crops lustier than the old.

"I would I had leisure for these things," sighs the world. "When I have
done my quilting and baking, then I will not be backward."

Love never stands still, nor does its object. It is the revolving sun
and the swelling bud. If I know what I love, it is because I _remember_
it.

Life is grand, and so are its environments of Past and Future. Would
the face of nature be so serene and beautiful if man's destiny were not
equally so? What am I good for now, who am still marching after high
things, but to hear and tell the news, to bring wood and water, and
count how many eggs the hens lay? In the meanwhile, I expect my life
will begin. I will not aspire longer. I will see what it is I would be
after. I will be unanimous.


_March 15. Tuesday._ It is a new day; the sun shines. The poor have
come out to employ themselves in the sunshine, the old and feeble to
scent the air once more. I hear the bluebird and the song sparrow and
the robin, and the note of the lark leaks up through the meadows, as if
its bill had been thawed by the warm sun.

As I am going to the woods I think to take some small book in my pocket
whose author has been there already, whose pages will be as good as my
thoughts, and will eke them out or show me human life still gleaming in
the horizon when the woods have shut out the town. But I can find none.
None will sail as far forward into the bay of nature as my thought.
They stay at home. I would go home. When I get to the wood their thin
leaves rustle in my fingers. They are bare and obvious, and there is no
halo or haze about them. Nature lies far and fair behind them all.[348]
I should like to meet the great and serene sentence, which does not
reveal itself,—only that it is great,—which I may never with my utmost
intelligence pierce through and beyond (more than the earth itself),
which no intelligence can understand. There should be a kind of life
and palpitation to it; under its rind a kind of blood should circulate
forever, communicating freshness to its countenance.[349]

       *       *       *       *       *

Cold Spring.—I hear nothing but a phœbe, and the wind, and the rattling
of a chaise in the wood. For a few years I stay here, not knowing,
taking my own life by degrees, and then I go. I hear a spring bubbling
near, where I drank out of a can in my earliest youth. The birds, the
squirrels, the alders, the pines, they seem serene and in their places.
I wonder if my life looks as serene to them too. Does no creature, then,
see with the eyes of its own narrow destiny, but with God's? When God
made man, he reserved some parts and some rights to himself. The eye has
many qualities which belong to God more than man. It is his lightning
which flashes in it. When I look into my companion's eye, I think it is
God's private mine. It is a noble feature; it cannot be degraded; for
God can look on all things undefiled.

       *       *       *       *       *

Pond.—Nature is constantly original and inventing new patterns, like a
mechanic in his shop. When the overhanging pine drops into the water, by
the action of the sun, and the wind rubbing it on the shore, its boughs
are worn white and smooth and assume fantastic forms, as if turned by a
lathe.[350] All things, indeed, are subjected to a rotary motion, either
gradual and partial or rapid and complete, from the planet and system
to the simplest shellfish and pebbles on the beach; as if all beauty
resulted from an object turning on its own axis, or others turning
about it. It establishes a new centre in the universe. As all curves
have reference to their centres or foci, so all beauty of character
has reference to the soul, and is a graceful gesture of recognition or
waving of the body toward it.

       *       *       *       *       *

The great and solitary heart will love alone, without the knowledge of
its object. It cannot have society in its love. It will expend its love
as the cloud drops rain upon the fields over which [it] floats.

The only way to speak the truth is to speak lovingly; only the lover's
words are heard. The intellect should never speak; it is not a natural
sound. How trivial the best actions are! I am led about from sunrise to
sunset by an ignoble routine, and yet can find no better road. I must
make a part of the planet. I must obey the law of nature.


_March 16. Wednesday._ Raleigh's Maxims are not true and impartial, but
yet are expressed with a certain magnanimity, which was natural to the
man, as if this selfish policy could easily afford to give place in him
to a more human and generous. He gives such advice that we have more
faith in his conduct than his principles.

He seems to have carried the courtier's life to the highest pitch of
magnanimity and grace it was capable of. He is liberal and generous
as a prince,—that is, within bounds; brave, chivalrous, heroic, as the
knight in armor and not as a defenseless man. His was not the heroism of
Luther, but of Bayard. There was more of grace than of truth in it. He
had more taste than character. There may be something petty in a refined
taste; it easily degenerates into effeminacy; it does not consider the
broadest use. It is not content with simple good and bad, and so is
fastidious and curious, or nice only.

       *       *       *       *       *

The most attractive sentences are not perhaps the wisest, but the surest
and soundest. He who uttered them had a right to speak. He did not stand
on a rolling stone, but was well assured of his footing, and naturally
breathed them without effort. They were spoken in the nick of time.
With rare fullness were they spoken, as a flower expands in the field;
and if you dispute their doctrine, you will say, "But there is truth
in their assurance." Raleigh's are of this nature, spoken with entire
satisfaction and heartiness. They are not philosophy, but poetry.

With him it was always well done and nobly said.

That is very true which Raleigh says about the equal necessity of
war and law,—that "the necessity of war, which among human actions
is most lawless, hath some kind of affinity and near resemblance with
the necessity of law;" for both equally rest on force as their basis,
and war is only the resource of law, either on a smaller or larger
scale,—its authority asserted. In war, in some sense, lies the very
genius of law. It is law creative and active; it is the first principle
of the law. What is human warfare but just this,—an effort to make the
laws of God and nature take sides with one party. Men make an arbitrary
code, and, because it is not right, they try to make it prevail by
might. The moral law does not want any champion. Its asserters do not
go to war. It was never infringed with impunity. It is inconsistent to
decry war and maintain law, for if there were no need of war there would
be no need of law.

       *       *       *       *       *

I must confess I see no resource but to conclude that conscience was not
given us to no purpose, or for a hindrance, but that, however flattering
order and expediency may look, it is but the repose of a lethargy; and
we will choose rather to be awake, though it be stormy, and maintain
ourselves on this earth and in this life as we may, without signing our
death-warrant in the outset. What does the law protect? My rights? or
any rights? My right, or the right? If I avail myself of it, it may help
my sin; it cannot help my virtue. Let us see if we cannot stay here,
where God has put us, on his own conditions. Does not his law reach
to the earth? While the law holds fast the thief and murderer for my
protection (I should say its own), it lets itself go loose. Expediencies
differ. They may clash. English law may go to war with American law,
that is English interest with American interest, but what is expedient
for the whole world will be absolute right, and synonymous with the law
of God. So the law is only partial right. It is selfish, and consults
for the interest of the few.[351]

Somehow, strangely, the vice of men gets well represented and protected,
but their virtue has none to plead its cause, nor any charter of
immunities and rights. The Magna Charta is not chartered rights, but
chartered wrongs.


_March 17. Thursday._ I have been making pencils all day, and then at
evening walked to see an old schoolmate who is going to help make the
Welland Canal navigable for ships round Niagara. He cannot see any
such motives and modes of living as I; professes not to look beyond
the securing of certain "creature comforts." And so we go silently
different ways, with all serenity, I in the still moonlight through the
village this fair evening to write these thoughts in my journal, and he,
forsooth, to mature his schemes to ends as good, maybe, but different.
So are we two made, while the same stars shine quietly over us. If I or
he be wrong, Nature yet consents placidly. She bites her lip and smiles
to see how her children will agree. So does the Welland Canal get built,
and other conveniences, while I live. Well and good, I must confess.
Fast sailing ships are hence not detained.

What means this changing sky, that now I freeze and contract and go
within myself to warm me, and now I say it is a south wind, and go all
soft and warm along the way? I sometimes wonder if I do not breathe the
south wind.


_March 18. Friday._ Whatever book or sentence will bear to be read
twice, we may be sure was thought twice. I say this thinking of Carlyle,
who writes pictures or first impressions merely, which consequently
will only bear a first reading. As if any transient, any _new_, mood of
the best man deserved to detain the world long. I should call Carlyle's
writing essentially dramatic, excellent acting, entertaining especially
to those who see rather than those who hear, not to be repeated more
than a joke. If he did not think who made the joke, how shall we think
who hear it? He never consults the oracle, but thinks to utter oracles
himself. There is nothing in his books for which he is not, and does
not feel, responsible. He does not retire behind the truth he utters,
but stands in the foreground. I wish he would just think, and tell
me what he thinks, appear to me in the attitude of a man with his ear
inclined, who comes as silently and meekly as the morning star, which
is unconscious of the dawn it heralds, leading the way up the steep as
though alone and unobserved in its observing, without looking behind.
He is essentially a humorist. But humors will not feed a man; they are
the least satisfactory morsel to the healthy appetite. They circulate;
I want rather to meet that about which they circulate. The heart is not
a humor, nor do they go to the heart, as the blood does.[352]


_March 19. Saturday_. When I walk in the fields of Concord and meditate
on the destiny of this prosperous slip of the Saxon family, the
unexhausted energies of this new country, I forget that this which is
now Concord was once Musketaquid, and that the _American race_ has had
its destiny also. Everywhere in the fields, in the corn and grain land,
the earth is strewn with the relics of a race which has vanished as
completely as if trodden in with the earth. I find it good to remember
the eternity behind me as well as the eternity before. Wherever I go, I
tread in the tracks of the Indian. I pick up the bolt which he has but
just dropped at my feet. And if I consider destiny I am on his trail. I
scatter his hearthstones with my feet, and pick out of the embers of his
fire the simple but enduring implements of the wigwam and the chase. In
planting my corn in the same furrow which yielded its increase to his
support so long, I displace some memorial of him.

I have been walking this afternoon over a pleasant field planted with
winter rye, near the house, where this strange people once had their
dwelling-place. Another species of mortal men, but little less wild to
me than the musquash they hunted. Strange spirits, dæmons, whose eyes
could never meet mine; with another nature and another fate than mine.
The crows flew over the edge of the woods, and, wheeling over my head,
seemed to rebuke, as dark-winged spirits more akin to the Indian than
I. Perhaps only the present disguise of the Indian. If the new has a
meaning, so has the old.[353]

Nature has her russet hues as well as green. Indeed, our eye splits
on every object, and we can as well take one path as the other. If I
consider its history, it is old; if its destiny, it is new. I may see
a part of an object, or the whole. I will not be imposed on and think
Nature is old because the season is advanced. I will study the botany of
the mosses and fungi on the decayed [wood], and remember that decayed
wood is not old, but has just begun to be what it is. I need not think
of the pine almond[354] or the acorn and sapling when I meet the fallen
pine or oak, more than of the generations of pines and oaks which have
fed the young tree. The new blade of the corn, the third leaf of the
melon, these are not green but gray with time, but sere in respect of
time.

The pines and the crows are not changed, but instead that Philip and
Paugus stand on the plain, here are Webster and Crockett. Instead of the
council-house is the legislature. What a new aspect have new eyes given
to the land! Where is this country but in the hearts of its inhabitants?
Why, there is only so much of Indian America left as there is of the
American Indian in the character of this generation.

       *       *       *       *       *

A blithe west wind is blowing over all. In the fine flowing haze, men
at a distance seem shadowy and gigantic, as ill-defined and great as
men should always be. I do not know if yonder be a man or a ghost.

       *       *       *       *       *

What a consolation are the stars to man!—so high and out of his reach,
as is his own destiny. I do not know but my life is fated to be thus low
and grovelling always. I cannot discover its use even to myself. But it
is permitted to see those stars in the sky equally useless, yet highest
of all and deserving of a fair destiny. My fate is in some sense linked
with that of the stars, and if they are to persevere to a great end,
shall I die who could conjecture it? It surely is some encouragement
to know that the stars are my fellow-creatures, for I do not suspect
but they are reserved for a high destiny. Has not he who discovers and
names a planet in the heavens as long a year as it? I do not fear that
any misadventure will befall _them_. Shall I not be content to disappear
with the missing stars? Do I mourn their fate?

Man's moral nature is a riddle which only eternity can solve.

       *       *       *       *       *

I see laws which never fail, of whose failure I never conceived. Indeed
I cannot detect failure anywhere but in my fear. I do not fear that
right is not right, that good is not good, but only the annihilation of
the present existence. But only that can make me incapable of fear. My
fears are as good prophets as my hopes.


_March 20. Sunday_. My friend is cold and reserved because his love
for me is waxing and not waning. These are the early processes; the
particles are just beginning to shoot in crystals. If the mountains
came to me, I should no longer go to the mountains. So soon as that
consummation takes place which I wish, it will be past. Shall I not have
a friend in reserve? Heaven is to come. I hope this is not it.

Words should pass between friends as the lightning passes from cloud
to cloud. I don't know how much I assist in the economy of nature when
I declare a fact. Is it not an important part in the history of the
flower that I tell my friend where I found it? We do [not] wish friends
to feed and clothe our bodies,—neighbors are kind enough for that,—but
to do the like offices to ourselves.[355] We wish to spread and publish
ourselves, as the sun spreads its rays; and we toss the new thought
to the friend, and thus it is dispersed. Friends are those twain who
feel their interests to be one. Each knows that the other might as well
have said what he said. All beauty, all music, all delight springs from
apparent dualism but real unity. My friend is my real brother. I see his
nature groping yonder like my own. Does there go one whom I know? then
I go there.

The field where friends have met is consecrated forever. Man seeks
friendship out of the desire to realize a home here. As the Indian
thinks he receives into himself the courage and strength of his
conquered enemy, so we add to ourselves all the character and heart of
our friends. He is my creation. I can do what I will with him. There
is no possibility of being thwarted; the friend is like wax in the rays
that fall from our own hearts.

The friend does not take my word for anything, but he takes me. He
trusts me as I trust myself. We only need be as true to others as we
are to ourselves, that there may be ground enough for friendship. In
the beginnings of friendship,—for it does not grow,—we realize such love
and justice as are attributed to God.

Very few are they from whom we derive any _in_formation. The most only
announce and tell tales, but the friend _in_-forms.

What is all nature and human life at this moment, what the scenery and
vicinity of a human soul, but the song of an early sparrow from yonder
fences, and the cackling hens in the barn? So for one while my destiny
loiters within ear-shot of these sounds. The great busy Dame Nature is
concerned to know how many eggs her hens lay. The Soul, the proprietor
of the world, has an interest in the stacking of hay, the foddering
of cattle, and the draining of peat meadows. Away in Scythia, away in
India, they make butter and cheese for its larder.[356] I wish that in
some page of the Testament there were something like Charlemagne's egg
account. Was not Christ interested in the setting hens of Palestine?

Nature is very ample and roomy. She has left us plenty of space to
move in. As far as I can see from this window, how little life in the
landscape! The few birds that flit past do not crowd; they do not fill
the valley. The traveller on the highway has no fellow-traveller for
miles before or behind him. Nature was generous and not niggardly,
certainly.

       *       *       *       *       *

How simple is the natural connection of events. We complain greatly of
the want of flow and sequence in books, but if the journalist only move
himself from Boston to New York, and speak as before, there is link
enough. And so there would be, if he were as careless of connection
and order when he stayed at home, and let the incessant progress which
his life makes be the apology for abruptness. Do I not travel as far
away from my old resorts, though I stay here at home, as though I were
on board the steamboat? Is not my life riveted together? Has not it
sequence? Do not my breathings follow each other naturally?


_March 21._[357] Who is old enough to have learned from experience?


_March 22. Tuesday._ Nothing can be more useful to a man than a
determination not to be hurried.

I have not succeeded if I have an antagonist who fails. It must be
humanity's success.

I cannot think nor utter my thought unless I have infinite room. The
cope of heaven is not too high, the sea is not too deep, for him who
would unfold a great thought. It must feed me and warm and clothe me.
It must be an entertainment to which my whole nature is invited. I must
know that the gods are to be my fellow-guests.

       *       *       *       *       *

We cannot well do without our sins; they are the highway of our virtue.


_March 23. Wednesday._ Plain speech is always a desideratum. Men write
in a florid style only because they would match the simple beauties of
the plainest speech. They prefer to be misunderstood, rather than come
short of its exuberance. Hussein Effendi praises the epistolary style of
Ibrahim Pasha to the French traveller Botta, because of "the difficulty
of understanding it: there was, he said, but one person at Jidda who was
capable of understanding and explaining the Pasha's correspondence."
A plain sentence, where every word is rooted in the soil, is indeed
flowery and verdurous. It has the beauty and variety of mosaic with the
strength and compactness of masonry. All fullness looks like exuberance.
We are not rich without superfluous wealth; but the imitator only copies
the superfluity. If the words were sufficiently simple and answering to
the thing to be expressed, our sentences would be as blooming as wreaths
of evergreen and flowers.[358] You cannot fill a wine-glass quite to
the brim without heaping it. Simplicity is exuberant.

When I look back eastward over the world, it seems to be all in repose.
Arabia, Persia, Hindostan are the land of contemplation. Those Eastern
nations have perfected the luxury of idleness. Mount Sabér, according
to the French traveller and naturalist Botta, is celebrated for
producing the Kát tree. "The soft tops of the twigs and tender leaves
are eaten," says his reviewer, "and produce an agreeable soothing
excitement, restoring from fatigue, banishing sleep, and disposing to
the enjoyment of conversation." What could be more dignified than to
browse the tree-tops with the camelopard? Who would not be a rabbit or
partridge sometimes, to chew mallows and pick the apple tree buds? It
is not hard to discover an instinct for the opium and betel and tobacco
chewers.[359]

       *       *       *       *       *

After all, I believe it is the style of thought entirely, and not the
style of expression, which makes the difference in books. For if I find
any thought worth extracting, I do not wish to alter the language. Then
the author seems to have had all the graces of eloquence and poetry
given him.

I am pleased to discover myself as much a pensioner in Nature as moles
and titmice. In some very direct and simple uses to which man puts
Nature he stands in this relation to her. Oriental life does not want
this grandeur. It is in Sadi and the Arabian Nights and the Fables of
Pilpay. In the New England noontide I have discovered more materials
of Oriental history than the Sanskrit contains or Sir W. Jones has
unlocked. I see why it is necessary there should be such history at
all. Was not Asia mapped in my brain before it was in any geography? In
my brain is the Sanskrit which contains the history of the primitive
times. The Vedas and their Angas are not so ancient as my serenest
contemplations.[360] My mind contemplates them, as Brahma his scribe.

       *       *       *       *       *

I occasionally find myself to be nothing at all, because the gods give
me nothing to do. I cannot brag; I can only congratulate my masters.

In idleness I am of no thickness, I am thinnest wafer. I never compass
my own ends. God schemes for me.

We have our times of action and our times of reflection. The one mood
caters for the other. Now I am Alexander, and then I am Homer. One while
my hand is impatient to handle an axe or hoe, and at another to [_sic_]
pen. I am sure I write the tougher truth for these calluses on my palms.
They give firmness to the sentence. The sentences of a laboring man are
like hardened thongs, or the sinews of the deer, or the roots of the
pine.[361]


_March 24. Thursday._ Those authors are successful who do not _write
down_ to others, but make their own taste and judgment their audience.
By some strange infatuation we forget that we do not approve what yet
we recommend to others. It is enough if I please myself with writing;
I am then sure of an audience.

       *       *       *       *       *

If hoarded treasures can make me rich, have I not the wealth of the
planet in my mines and at the bottom of the sea?

       *       *       *       *       *

It is always singular to meet common sense in very old books, as the
Veeshnoo Sarma,—as if they could have dispensed with the experience of
later times.[362] We had not given space enough to _their_ antiquity
for the accumulation of wisdom. We meet even a trivial wisdom in them,
as if truth were already hackneyed. The present is always younger than
antiquity. A playful wisdom, which has eyes behind as well as before and
oversees itself. This pledge of sanity cannot be spared in a book, that
it sometimes reflect upon itself, that it pleasantly behold itself, that
it hold the scales over itself.[363] The wise can afford to doubt in
his wisest moment. The easiness of doubt is the ground of his assurance.
Faith keeps many doubts in her pay. If I could not doubt, I should not
believe.

It is seen in this old scripture how wisdom is older than the talent
of composition. It is a simple and not a compound rock. The story is
as slender as the thread on which pearls are strung; it is a spiral
line, growing more and more perplexed till it winds itself up and dies
like the silkworm in its cocoon. It is an interminable labyrinth. It
seems as if the old philosopher could not talk without moving, and each
motion were made the apology or occasion for a sentence, but, this being
found inconvenient, the fictitious progress of the tale was invented.
The story which winds between and around these sentences, these barrows
in the desert, these oases, is as indistinct as a camel track between
Mourzuk and Darfur, between the Pyramids and the Nile, from Gaza to
Jaffa.[364]

The great thoughts of a wise man seem to the vulgar who do not
generalize to stand far apart like isolated mounts; but science knows
that the mountains which rise so solitary in our midst are parts of a
great mountain-chain, dividing the earth, and the eye that looks into
the horizon toward the blue Sierra melting away in the distance may
detect their flow of thought. These sentences which take up your common
life so easily are not seen to run into ridges, because they are the
table-land on which the spectator stands.[365] I do not require that
the mountain-peaks be chained together, but by the common basis on
which they stand, nor that the path of the muleteer be kept open at so
much pains, when they may be bridged by the Milky Way. That they stand
frowning upon one another, or mutually reflecting the sun's rays, is
proof enough of their common basis.

       *       *       *       *       *

The book should be found where the sentence is, and its connection be
as inartificial. It is the inspiration of a day and not of a moment.
The links should be gold also. Better that the good be not united than
that a bad man be admitted into their society. When men can select they
will. If there be any stone in the quarry better than the rest, they
will forsake the rest because of it. Only the good will be quarried.

In these fables the story goes unregarded, while the reader leaps from
sentence to sentence, as the traveller leaps from stone to stone while
the water rushes unheeded between them.[366]


_March 25. Friday._ Great persons are not soon learned, not even their
outlines, but they change like the mountains in the horizon as we ride
along.

       *       *       *       *       *

A man's life should be as fresh as a river. It should be the same
channel, but a new water every instant.[367] Some men have no
inclination; they have no rapids nor cascades, but marshes, and
alligators, and miasma instead.[368]

How insufficient is all wisdom without love! There may be courtesy,
there may be good will, there may be even temper, there may be wit,
and talent, and sparkling conversation,—and yet the soul pine for
life. Just so sacred and rich as my life is to myself will it be to
another. Ignorance and bungling with love are better than wisdom and
skill without. Our life without love is like coke and ashes,—like the
cocoanut in which the milk is dried up. I want to see the sweet sap
of living wood in it. Men may be pure as alabaster and Parian marble,
elegant as a Tuscan villa, sublime as Terni, but if they are not in
society as retiring and inexperienced as children, we shall go join
Alaric and the Goths and Vandals. There is no milk mixed with the wine
at the entertainment.[369]

Enthusiasm which is the formless material of thought. Comparatively
speaking, I care not for the man or his designs who would make the
highest use of me short of an all-adventuring friendship. I wish by the
behavior of my friend toward me to be led to have such regard for myself
as for a box of precious ointment. I shall not be so cheap to myself if
I see that another values me.

We talk much about education, and yet none will assume the office of an
educator. I never gave any one the whole advantage of myself. I never
afforded him the culture of my love. How can I talk of charity, who at
last withhold the kindness which alone makes charity desirable? The poor
want nothing less than me myself, and I shirk charity by giving rags
and meat.

Very dangerous is the talent of composition, the striking out the heart
of life at a blow, as the Indian takes off a scalp. I feel as if my life
had grown more outward since I could express it.[370]

What can I give or what deny to another but myself?

The stars are God's dreams, thoughts remembered in the silence of his
night.

In company, that person who alone can understand you you cannot get out
of your mind.

The artist must work with indifferency. Too great interest vitiates his
work.


_March 26. Saturday._ The wise will not be imposed on by wisdom. You
can tell, but what do you know?

I thank God that the cheapness which appears in time and the world,
the trivialness of the whole scheme of things, is in my own cheap and
trivial moment. I am time and the world. I assert no independence. In me
are summer and winter, village life and commercial routine, pestilence
and famine and refreshing breezes, joy and sadness, life and death.
How near is yesterday! How far to-morrow! I have seen nails which were
driven before I was born. Why do they look old and rusty? Why does not
God make some mistake to show to us that time is a delusion? Why did I
invent time but to destroy it?

Did you ever remember the moment when you were not mean?

Is it not a satire to say that life is organic?

Where is my heart gone? They say men cannot part with it and live.

       *       *       *       *       *

Are setting hens troubled with ennui? Nature is very kind; does she let
them reflect? These long March days, setting on and on in the crevice
of a hayloft, with no active employment![371] Do setting hens sleep?

       *       *       *       *       *

A book should be a vein of gold ore, as the sentence is a diamond found
in the sand, or a pearl fished out of the sea.

He who does not borrow trouble does not lend it.

I must confess I have felt mean enough when asked how I was to act
on society, what errand I had to mankind. Undoubtedly I did not feel
mean without a reason, and yet my loitering is not without defense. I
would fain communicate the wealth of my life to men, would really give
them what is most precious in my gift. I would secrete pearls with the
shellfish and lay up honey with the bees for them. I will sift the
sunbeams for the public good. I know no riches I would keep back. I
have no private good, unless it be my peculiar ability to serve the
public. This is the only individual property. Each one may thus be
innocently rich. I inclose and foster the pearl till it is grown. I wish
to communicate those parts of my life which I would gladly live again
myself.

It is hard to be a good citizen of the world in any great sense; but if
we do render no interest or increase to mankind out of that talent God
gave us, we can at least preserve the principle unimpaired. One would
like to be making large dividends to society out [of] that deposited
capital in us, but he does well for the most part if he proves a secure
investment only, without adding to the stock.

In such a letter as I like there will be the most naked and direct
speech, the least circumlocution.


_March 27. Sunday._ The eye must be firmly anchored to this earth which
beholds birches and pines waving in the breeze in a certain fight, a
serene rippling light.

       *       *       *       *       *

Cliffs.—Two little hawks have just come out to play, like butterflies
rising one above the other in endless alternation far below me. They
swoop from side to side in the broad basin of the tree-tops, with wider
and wider surges, as if swung by an invisible pendulum. They stoop down
on this side and scale up on that.

Suddenly I look up and see a new bird, probably an eagle, quite above
me, laboring with the wind not more than forty rods off. It was the
largest bird of the falcon kind I ever saw. I was never so impressed by
any flight. She sailed the air, and fell back from time to time like a
ship on her beam ends, holding her talons up as if ready for the arrows.
I never allowed before for the grotesque attitudes of our national
bird.[372]

The eagle must have an educated eye.

See what a life the gods have given us, set round with pain and
pleasure. It is too strange for sorrow; it is too strange for joy. One
while it looks as shallow, though as intricate, as a Cretan labyrinth,
and again it is a pathless depth. I ask for bread incessantly,—that my
life sustain me, as much as meat my body. No man knoweth in what hour
his life may come. Say not that Nature is trivial, for to-morrow she
will be radiant with beauty. I am as old—as old as the Alleghanies. I
was going to say Wachusett, but it excites a youthful feeling, as I were
but too happy to be so young.


_March 28. Monday._ How often must one feel, as he looks back on his
past life, that he has gained a talent but lost a character! My life
has got down into my fingers. My inspiration at length is only so much
breath as I can breathe.

Society affects to estimate men by their talents, but really feels and
knows them by their characters. What a man does, compared with what he
is, is but a small part. To require that our friend possess a certain
skill is not to be satisfied till he is something less than our friend.

Friendship should be a great promise, a perennial springtime.

I can conceive how the life of the gods may be dull and tame, if it is
not disappointed and insatiate.

       *       *       *       *       *

One may well feel chagrined when he finds he can do nearly all he can
conceive.

Some books ripple on like a stream, and we feel that the author is in
the full tide of discourse. Plato and Jamblichus and Pythagoras and
Bacon halt beside them. Long, stringy, slimy thoughts which flow or run
together. They read as if written for military men or men of business,
there is such a dispatch in them, and a double-quick time, a Saratoga
march with beat of drum. But the grave thinkers and philosophers seem
not to have got their swaddling-clothes off; they are slower than a
Roman army on its march, the rear encampment to-night where the van
camped last night. The wise Jamblichus eddies and gleams like a watery
slough.

But the reviewer seizes the pen and shouts, "Forward! Alamo and
Fanning!" and after rolls the tide of war. Immediately the author
discovers himself launched, and if the slope was easy and the grease
good, does not go to the bottom.

They flow as glibly as mill-streams sucking under a race-way. The flow
is ofttimes in the poor reader who makes such haste over their pages,
as to the traveller the walls and fences seem to travel. But the most
rapid trot is no flow after all.[373]

If I cannot chop wood in the yard, can I not chop wood in my journal?
Can I not give vent to that appetite so? I wish to relieve myself of
superfluous energy. How poor is the life of the best and wisest! The
petty side will appear at last. Understand once how the best in society
live,—with what routine, with what tedium and insipidity, with what
grimness and defiance, with what chuckling over an exaggeration of the
sunshine. Altogether, are not the actions of your great man poor, even
pitiful and ludicrous?

I am astonished, I must confess, that man looks so respectable in
nature, considering the littlenesses Socrates must descend to in the
twenty-four hours, that he yet wears a serene countenance and even
adorns nature.


_March 29. Tuesday._


_March 30. Wednesday._ Though Nature's laws are more immutable than any
despot's, yet to our daily life they rarely seem rigid, but we relax
with license in summer weather. We are not often nor harshly reminded
of the things we may not do. I am often astonished to see how long, and
with what manifold infringements of the natural laws, some men I meet
in the highway maintain life. She does not deny them quarter; they do
not die without priest. All the while she rejoices, for if they are not
one part of her they are another. I am convinced that consistency is the
secret of health. How many a poor man, striving to live a pure life,
pines and dies after a life of sickness, and his successors doubt if
Nature is not pitiless; while the confirmed and consistent sot, who is
content with his rank life like mushrooms, a mass of corruption, still
dozes comfortably under a hedge. He has made his peace with himself;
there is no strife. Nature is really very kind and liberal to all
persons of vicious habits. They take great licenses with her. She does
not exhaust them with many excesses.[374]

       *       *       *       *       *

How hard it is to be greatly related to mankind! They are only my uncles
and aunts and cousins. I hear of some persons greatly related, but
only he is so who has all mankind for his friend. Our intercourse with
the best grows soon shallow and trivial. They no longer inspire us.
After enthusiasm comes insipidity and blankness. The sap of all noble
schemes drieth up, and the schemers return again and again in despair
to "common sense and labor." If I could help infuse some life and heart
into society, should I not do a service? Why will not the gods mix a
little of the wine of nobleness with the air we drink? Let virtue have
some firm foothold in the earth. Where does she dwell? Who are the
salt of the earth? May not Love have some resting-place on the earth as
sure [as] the sunshine on the rock? The crystals imbedded in the cliff
sparkle and gleam from afar, as if they did certainly enrich our planet;
but where does any virtue permanently sparkle and gleam? She was sent
forth over the waste too soon, before the earth was prepared for her.

Rightfully we are to each other the gate of heaven and redeemers from
sin, but now we overlook these lowly and narrow ways. We will go over
the bald mountain-tops without going through the valleys.

       *       *       *       *       *

Men do not after all meet on the ground of their real acquaintance and
actual understanding of one another, but degrade themselves immediately
into the puppets of convention. They do as if, in given circumstances,
they had agreed to know each other only so well. They rarely get to that
[point] that they inform one another gratuitously, and use each other
like the sea and woods for what is new and inspiring there.

The best intercourse and communion they have is in silence above and
behind their speech. We should be very simple to rely on words. As
it is, what we knew before always interprets a man's words. I cannot
easily remember what any man has said, but how can I forget what he is
to me? We know each other better than we are aware; we are admitted to
startling privacies with every person we meet, and in some emergency we
shall find how well we knew him. To my solitary and distant thought my
neighbor is shorn of his halo, and is seen as privately and barely as
a star through a glass.


_March 31. Thursday._ I cannot forget the majesty of that bird at the
Cliff. It was no sloop or smaller craft hove in sight, but a ship of the
line, worthy to struggle with the elements. It was a great presence, as
of the master of river and forest. His eye would not have quailed before
the owner of the soil; none could challenge his rights. And then his
retreat, sailing so steadily away, was a kind of advance. How is it that
man always feels like an interloper in nature, as if he had intruded on
the domains of bird and beast?[375]

       *       *       *       *       *

The really efficient laborer will be found not to crowd his day with
work, but will saunter to his task surrounded by a wide halo of ease and
leisure. There will be a wide margin for relaxation to his day. He is
only earnest to secure the kernels of time, and does not exaggerate the
value of the husk. Why should the hen set all day? She can lay but one
egg, and besides she will not have picked up materials for a new one.
Those who work much do not work hard.[376]

       *       *       *       *       *

Nothing is so rare as sense. Very uncommon sense is poetry, and has a
heroic or sweet music. But in verse, for the most part, the music now
runs before and then behind the sense, but is never coincident with it.
Given the metre, and one will make music while another makes sense. But
good verse, like a good soldier, will make its own music, and it will
march to the same with one consent. In most verse there is no inherent
music. The man should not march, but walk like a citizen. It is not time
of war but peace. Boys study the metres to write Latin verses, but it
does not help them to write English.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lydgate's "Story of Thebes," intended for a Canterbury Tale, is a
specimen of most unprogressive, unmusical verse. Each line rings the
knell of its brother, as if it were introduced but to dispose of him. No
mortal man could have breathed to that cadence without long intervals of
relaxation; the repetition would have been fatal to the lungs. No doubt
there was much healthy exercise taken in the meanwhile. He should forget
his rhyme and tell his story, or forget his story and breathe himself.

In Shakespeare and elsewhere the climax may be somewhere along the line,
which runs as varied and meandering as a country road, but in Lydgate
it is nowhere but in the rhyme. The couplets slope headlong to their
confluence.


_April 2. Saturday._[377] The Prologue to the Canterbury Tales is full
of good sense and humanity, but is not transcendent poetry. It is so
good that it seems like faultfinding to esteem it second to any other.
For picturesque description of persons it is without a parallel. It did
not need inspiration, but a cheerful and easy wit. It is essentially
humorous, as no inspired poetry is. Genius is so serious as to be grave
and sublime rather. Humor takes a narrower vision—however broad and
genial it may be—than enthusiasm. Humor delays and looks back.[378]


_April 3. Sunday._ I can remember when I was more enriched by a few
cheap rays of light falling on the pond-side than by this broad sunny
day. Riches have wings, indeed. The weight of present woe will express
the sweetness of past experience. When sorrow comes, how easy it is to
remember pleasure! When, in winter, the bees cannot make new honey, they
consume the old.

Experience is in the fingers and head. The heart is inexperienced.

Sorrow singeth the sweetest strain: "The Daughters of Zion," "The Last
Sigh of the Moor."

Joy is the nectar of flowers, sorrow the honey of bees.

I thank God for sorrow. It is hard to be abused. Is not He kind still,
who lets this south wind blow, this warm sun shine on me?

I have just heard the flicker among the oaks on the hillside ushering in
a new dynasty. It is the age and youth of time. Why did Nature set this
lure for sickly mortals? Eternity could not begin with more security and
momentousness than the spring. The summer's eternity is reëstablished by
this note.[379] All sights and sounds are seen and heard both in time
and eternity. And when the eternity of any sight or sound strikes the
eye or ear, they are intoxicated with delight.

Sometimes, as through a dim haze, we see objects in their eternal
relations; and they stand like Stonehenge and the Pyramids, and we
wonder who set them up and what for.

The destiny of the soul can never be studied by the reason, for its
modes are not ecstatic. In the wisest calculation or demonstration I
but play a game with myself. I am not to be taken captive by myself.

I cannot convince myself. God must convince. I can calculate a problem
in arithmetic, but not any morality.

Virtue is incalculable, as it is inestimable. Well, man's destiny is
but virtue, or manhood. It is wholly moral, to be learned only by the
life of the soul. God cannot calculate it. He has no moral philosophy,
no ethics. The reason, before it can be applied to such a subject, will
have to fetter and restrict it. How can he, step by step, perform that
long journey who has not conceived whither he is bound? How can he
expect to perform an arduous journey without interruption who has no
passport to the end?

On one side of man is the actual, and on the other the ideal. The former
is the province of the reason; it is even a divine light when directed
upon it, but it cannot reach forward into the ideal without blindness.
The moon was made to rule by night, but the sun to rule by day. Reason
will be but a pale cloud, like the moon, when one ray of divine light
comes to illumine the soul.

How rich and lavish must be the system which can afford to let so many
moons burn all the day as well as the night, though no man stands in
need of their light! There is none of that kind of economy in Nature
that husbands its stock, but she supplies inexhaustible means to the
most frugal methods. The poor may learn of her frugality, and the rich
generosity. Having carefully determined the extent of her charity,
she establishes it forever; her almsgiving is an annuity. She supplies
to the bee only so much wax as is necessary for its cell, so that no
poverty could stint it more; but the little economist which fed the
Evangelist in the desert still keeps in advance of the immigrant, and
fills the cavities of the forest for his repast.




VII

1845-1846

(ÆT. 27-29)


_July 5. Saturday._ Walden.—Yesterday I came here to live. My house
makes me think of some mountain houses I have seen, which seemed to
have a fresher auroral atmosphere about them, as I fancy of the halls
of Olympus. I lodged at the house of a saw-miller last summer, on the
Caatskill Mountains, high up as Pine Orchard, in the blueberry and
raspberry region, where the quiet and cleanliness and coolness seemed to
be all one,—which had their ambrosial character. He was the miller of
the Kaaterskill Falls. They were a clean and wholesome family, inside
and out, like their house. The latter was not plastered, only lathed,
and the inner doors were not hung. The house seemed high-placed, airy,
and perfumed, fit to entertain a travelling god. It was so high, indeed,
that all the music, the broken strains, the waifs and accompaniments of
tunes, that swept over the ridge of the Caatskills, passed through its
aisles. Could not man be man in such an abode? And would he ever find
out this grovelling life?[380] It was the very light and atmosphere in
which the works of Grecian art were composed, and in which they rest.
They have appropriated to themselves a loftier hall than mortals ever
occupy, at least on a level with the mountain-brows of the world. There
was wanting a little of the glare of the lower vales, and in its place
a pure twilight as became the precincts of heaven. Yet so equable and
calm was the season there that you could not tell whether it was morning
or noon or evening. Always there was the sound of the morning cricket.


_July 6._ I wish to meet the facts of life—the vital facts, which are
the phenomena or actuality the gods meant to show us—face to face, and
so I came down here. Life! who knows what it is, what it does? If I am
not quite right here, I am less wrong than before; and now let us see
what they will have. The preacher, instead of vexing the ears of drowsy
farmers on their day of rest, at the end of the week,—for Sunday always
seemed to me like a fit conclusion of an ill-spent week and not the
fresh and brave beginning of a new one,—with this one other draggletail
and postponed affair of a sermon, from thirdly to fifteenthly, should
teach them with a thundering voice pause and simplicity. "Stop! Avast!
Why so fast?"[381] In all studies we go not forward but rather backward
with redoubled pauses. We always study _antiques_ with silence and
reflection. Even time has a depth, and below its surface the waves do
not lapse and roar. I wonder men can be so frivolous almost as to attend
to the gross form of negro slavery, there are so many keen and subtle
masters who subject us both. Self-emancipation in the West Indies of a
man's thinking and imagining provinces, which should be more than his
island territory,—one emancipated heart and intellect! It would knock
off the fetters from a million slaves.


_July 7._ I am glad to remember to-night, as I sit by my door, that
I too am at least a remote descendant of that heroic race of men of
whom there is tradition. I too sit here on the shore of my Ithaca, a
fellow-wanderer and survivor of Ulysses. How symbolical, significant
of I know not what, the pitch pine stands here before my door! Unlike
any glyph I have seen sculptured or painted yet, one of Nature's later
designs, yet perfect as her Grecian art. There it is, a done tree. Who
can mend it? And now where is the generation of heroes whose lives are
to pass amid these our northern pines, whose exploits shall appear to
posterity pictured amid these strong and shaggy forms? Shall there be
only arrows and bows to go with these pines on some pipe-stone quarry
at length? There is something more respectable than railroads in these
simple relics of the Indian race. What hieroglyphs shall we add to the
pipe-stone quarry?

       *       *       *       *       *

If we can forget, we have done somewhat; if we can remember, we have
done somewhat. Let us remember this.

       *       *       *       *       *

The Great Spirit makes indifferent all times and places. The place where
he is seen is always the same, and indescribably pleasant to all our
senses. We had allowed only neighboring and transient circumstances to
make our occasions. They were, in fact, the causes of our distractions.
But nearest to all things is that power which fashions their being. Next
to us the grandest laws are being enacted and administered. Next to us
is not the workman whom we have hired, but ever the workman whose work
we are. He is at work, not in my backyard, but inconceivably nearer
than that. We are the subjects of an experiment how singular! Can we
not dispense with the society of our gossips a little while under these
circumstances?

       *       *       *       *       *

My auxiliaries are the dews and rains,—to water this dry soil,—and
genial fatness in the soil itself, which for the most part is lean and
effete. My enemies are worms, cool days, and most of all woodchucks.
They have nibbled for me an eighth of an acre clean. I plant in faith,
and they reap. This is the tax I pay for ousting johnswort and the rest.
But soon the surviving beans will be too tough for woodchucks, and then
they will go forward to meet new foes.[382]


_July 14._ What sweet and tender, the most innocent and divinely
encouraging society there is in every natural object, and so in
universal nature, even for the poor misanthrope and most melancholy man!
There can be no really black melan-choly to him who lives in the midst
of nature and has still his senses. There never was yet such a storm but
it was Æolian music to the innocent ear. Nothing can compel to a vulgar
sadness a simple and brave man. While I enjoy the sweet friendship of
the seasons I trust that nothing can make life a burden to me. This rain
which is now watering my beans and keeping me in the house waters me
too. I needed it as much. And what if most are not hoed! Those who send
the rain, whom I chiefly respect, will pardon me.[383]

Sometimes, when I compare myself with other men, methinks I am favored
by the gods. They seem to whisper joy to me beyond my deserts, and that
I do have a solid warrant and surety at their hands, which my fellows
do not. I do not flatter myself, but if it were possible _they_ flatter
me. I am especially guided and guarded.[384]

       *       *       *       *       *

What was seen true once, and sanctioned by the flash of Jove, will
always be true, and nothing can hinder it. I have the warrant that no
fair dream I have had need fail of its fulfillment.

Here I know I am in good company; here is the world, its centre and
metropolis, and all the palms of Asia and the laurels of Greece and the
firs of the Arctic Zone incline thither. Here I can read Homer, if I
would have books, as well as in Ionia, and not wish myself in Boston,
or New York, or London, or Rome, or Greece. In such place as this he
wrote or sang. Who should come to my lodge just now but a true Homeric
boor, one of those Paphlagonian men? Alek Therien, he called himself;
a Canadian now, a woodchopper, a post-maker; makes fifty posts—holes
them, _i. e._—in a day; and who made his last supper on a woodchuck
which his dog caught. And he too has heard of Homer, and _if it were
not for books, would not know what to do_ rainy days. Some priest once,
who could read glibly from the Greek itself, taught him reading in a
measure—his verse, at least, in his turn—away by the Trois Rivières, at
Nicolet. And now I must read to him, while he holds the book, Achilles'
reproof of Patroclus on his sad countenance.

"Why are you in tears, Patroclus, like a young child (girl)?" etc., etc.

     "Or have you only heard some news from Phthia?
     They say that Menœtius lives yet, son of Actor,
     And Peleus lives, son of Æacus, among the Myrmidons,
     Both of whom having died, we should greatly grieve."

He has a neat[385] bundle of white oak bark under his arm for a sick
man, gathered this Sunday morning. "I suppose there's no harm in going
after such a thing to-day."[386] The simple man. May the gods send him
many woodchucks.

And earlier to-day came five Lestrigones, railroad men who take care
of the road, some of them at least. They still represent the bodies of
men, transmitting arms and legs and bowels downward from those remote
days to more remote. They have some got a rude wisdom withal, thanks
to their dear experience. And one with them, a handsome younger man, a
sailor-like, Greek-like man, says: "Sir, I like your notions. I think I
shall live so myself. Only I should like a wilder country, where there
is more game. I have been among the Indians near Appalachicola. I have
lived with them. I like your kind of life. Good day. I wish you success
and happiness."

Therien said this morning (July 16th, Wednesday), "If those beans
were mine, I shouldn't like to hoe them till the dew was off." He was
going to his woodchopping. "Ah!" said I, "that is one of the notions
the farmers have got, but I don't believe it." "How thick the pigeons
are!" said he. "If working every day were not my trade, I could get
all the meat I should want by hunting,—pigeons, woodchucks, rabbits,
partridges,—by George! I could get all I should want for a week in one
day."[387]

       *       *       *       *       *

I imagine it to be some advantage to live a primitive and frontier
life, though in the midst of an outward civilization. Of course all
the improvements of the ages do not carry a man backward nor forward in
relation to the great facts of his existence.[388]

Our furniture should be as simple as the Arab's or the Indian's.[389] At
first the thoughtful, wondering man plucked in haste the fruits which
the boughs extended to him, and found in the sticks and stones around
him his implements ready to crack the nut, to wound the beast, and
build his house with. And he still remembered that he was a sojourner
in nature. When he was refreshed with food and sleep he contemplated his
journey again. He dwelt in a tent in this world. He was either threading
the valleys, or crossing the plains, or climbing the mountain-tops.[390]

       *       *       *       *       *

Now the best works of art serve comparatively but to dissipate the mind,
for they themselves represent transitionary and paroxysmal, not free
and absolute, thoughts.

       *       *       *       *       *

Men have become the tools of their tools. The man who independently
plucked the fruits when he was hungry is become a farmer.[391]

       *       *       *       *       *

There are scores of pitch pines in my field, from one to three inches
in diameter, girdled by the mice last winter. A Norwegian winter it was
for them, for the snow lay long and deep, and they had to mix much pine
meal with their usual diet. Yet these trees have not many of them died,
even in midsummer, and laid bare for a foot, but have grown a foot. They
seem to do all their gnawing beneath the snow. There is not much danger
of the mouse tribe becoming extinct in hard winters, for their granary
is a cheap and extensive one.[392]

Here is one has had her nest under my house, and came when I took my
luncheon to pick the crumbs at my feet. It had never seen the race of
man before, and so the sooner became familiar. It ran over my shoes and
up my pantaloons inside, clinging to my flesh with its sharp claws. It
would run up the side of the room by short impulses like a squirrel,
which [it] resembles, coming between the house mouse and the former. Its
belly is a little reddish, and its ears a little longer. At length, as
I leaned my elbow on the bench, it ran over my arm and round the paper
which contained my dinner. And when I held it a piece of cheese, it came
and nibbled between my fingers, and then cleaned its face and paws like
a fly.[393]

       *       *       *       *       *

There is a memorable interval between the written and the spoken
language, the language read and the language heard. The one is
transient, a sound, a tongue, a dialect, and all men learn it of their
mothers. It is loquacious, fragmentary,—raw material. The other is a
reserved, select, matured expression, a deliberate word addressed to
the ear of nations and generations. The one is natural and convenient,
the other divine and instructive. The clouds flit here below, genial,
refreshing with their showers and gratifying with their tints,—alternate
sun and shade, a grosser heaven adapted to our trivial wants; but above
them repose the blue firmament and the stars. The stars are written
words and stereotyped on the blue parchment of the skies; the fickle
clouds that hide them from our view, which we on this side need, though
heaven does not, these are our daily colloquies, our vaporous, garrulous
breath.

Books must be read as deliberately and reservedly as they were written.
The herd of men, the generations who speak the Greek and Latin, are
not entitled by the accident of birth to read the works of genius,
whose mother tongue speaks everywhere, and is learned by every child
who hears. The army of the Greeks and Latins are not coæternary,
though contemporary, with Homer and Plato, Virgil and Cicero. In the
transition ages, nations who loudest spoke the Greek and Latin tongues,
whose mother's milk they were, learned not their nobler dialects,
but a base and vulgar speech. The men of the Middle Ages who spoke so
glibly the language of the Roman and, in the Eastern Empire, of the
Athenian mob, prized only a cheap contemporary learning. The classics
of both languages were virtually lost and forgotten. When, after
the several nations of Europe had acquired in some degree rude and
original languages of their own, sufficient for the arts of life and
conversation, then the few scholars beheld with advantage from this
more distant standpoint the treasures of antiquity, and a new Latin
age commenced, the era of reading. Those works of genius were then
first classical. All those millions who had spoken Latin and Greek
had not read Latin and Greek. The time had at length arrived for the
written word, the _scripture_, to be heard. What the multitude could
not _hear_, after the lapse of centuries a few scholars _read_. This is
the matured thought which was not spoken in the market-place, unless it
be in a market-place where the free genius of mankind resorts to-day.
There is something very choice and select in a written word. No wonder
Alexander carried his Homer in a precious casket on his expeditions. A
word which may be translated into every dialect, and suggests a truth
to every mind, is the most perfect work of human art; and as it may
be breathed and taken on our lips, and, as it were, become the product
of our physical organs, as its sense is of our intellectual, it is the
nearest to life itself.[394] It is the simplest and purest channel by
which a revelation may be transmitted from age to age. How it subsists
itself whole and undiminished till the intelligent reader is born to
decipher it! There are the tracks of Zoroaster, of Confucius and Moses,
indelible in the sands of the remotest times.

       *       *       *       *       *

There are no monuments of antiquity comparable to the classics for
interest and importance. It does not need that the scholar should be
an antiquarian, for these works of art have such an immortality as the
works of nature, and are modern at the same time that they are ancient,
like the sun and stars, and occupy by right no small share of the
present. This palpable beauty is the treasured wealth of the world and
the proper inheritance of each generation. Books, the oldest and the
best, stand rightfully on the shelves of every cottage. They have not to
plead their cause, but they enlighten their readers and it is gained.
When the illiterate and scornful rustic earns his imagined leisure and
wealth, he turns inevitably at last—he or his children—to these still
higher and yet inaccessible circles; and even when his descendant has
attained to move in the highest rank of the wise men of his own age
and country, he will still be sensible only of the imperfection of his
culture and the vanity and inefficiency of his intellectual wealth, if
his genius will not permit him to listen with somewhat of the equanimity
of an equal to the fames of godlike men, which yet, as it were, form an
invisible upper class in every society.[395]

       *       *       *       *       *

I have carried an apple in my pocket to-night—a sopsivine, they call
it—till, now that I take my handkerchief out, it has got so fine a
fragrance that it really seems like a friendly trick of some pleasant
dæmon to entertain me with.[396] It is redolent of sweet-scented
orchards, of innocent, teeming harvests. I realize the existence of a
goddess Pomona, and that the gods have really intended that men should
feed divinely, like themselves, on their own nectar and ambrosia. They
have so painted this fruit, and freighted it with such a fragrance,
that it satisfies much more than an animal appetite. Grapes, peaches,
berries, nuts, etc., are likewise provided for those who will sit at
their sideboard. I have felt, when partaking of this inspiring diet,
that my appetite was an indifferent consideration; that eating became
a sacrament, a method of communion, an ecstatic exercise, a mingling
of bloods, and [a] sitting at the communion table of the world; and so
have not only quenched my thirst at the spring but the health of the
universe.

The indecent haste and grossness with which our food is swallowed have
cast a disgrace on the very act of eating itself. But I do believe that,
if this process were rightly conducted, its aspect and effects would
be wholly changed, and we should receive our daily life and health,
Antæus-like, with an ecstatic delight, and, with upright front, an
innocent and graceful behavior, take our strength from day to day. This
fragrance of the apple in my pocket has, I confess, deterred me from
eating of it. I am more effectually fed by it another way.

It is, indeed, the common notion that this fragrance is the only food
of the gods, and inasmuch as we are partially divine we are compelled
to respect it.

     Tell me, ye wise ones, if ye can,
     Whither and whence the race of man.
     For I have seen his slender clan
     Clinging to hoar hills with their feet,
     Threading the forest for their meat.
     Moss and lichens, bark and grain
     They rake together with might and main,
     And they digest them with anxiety and pain.
     I meet them in their rags and unwashed hair,
     Instructed to eke out their scanty fare—
     Brave race—with a yet humbler prayer.
     Beggars they are, aye, on the largest scale.
     They beg their daily bread at heaven's door,
     And if their this year's crop alone should fail,
     They neither bread nor begging would know more.
     They are the titmen of their race,
     And hug the vales with mincing pace
     Like Troglodytes, and fight with cranes.
     We walk 'mid great relations' feet.
     What they let fall alone we eat.
     We are only able
     To catch the fragments from their table.
     These elder brothers of our race,
     By us unseen, with larger pace
     Walk o'er our heads, and live our lives,
     Embody our desires and dreams,
     Anticipate our hoped-for gleams.
     We grub the earth for our food.
     We know not what is good.
     Where does the fragrance of our orchards go,
     Our vineyards, while we toil below?
     A finer race and finer fed
     Feast and revel above our head.
     The tints and fragrance of the flowers and fruits
     Are but the crumbs from off their table,
     While we consume the pulp and roots.
     Sometimes we do assert our kin,
     And stand a moment where once they have been.
     We hear their sounds and see their sights,
     And we experience their delights.
     But for the moment that we stand
     Astonished on the Olympian land,
     We do discern no traveller's face,
     No elder brother of our race,
     To lead us to the monarch's court
     And represent our case;
     But straightway we must journey back,
     Retracing slow the arduous track,
     Without the privilege to tell,
     Even, the sight we know so well.[397]

In my father's house are many mansions.

Who ever explored the mansions of the air? Who knows who his neighbors
are? We seem to lead our human lives amid a concentric system of
worlds, of realm on realm, close bordering on each other, where dwell
the unknown and the imagined races, as various in degree as our own
thoughts are,—a system of invisible partitions more infinite in number
and more inconceivable in intricacy than the starry one which science
has penetrated.

When I play my flute to-night, earnest as if to leap the bounds [of] the
narrow fold where human life is penned, and range the surrounding plain,
I hear echo from a neighboring wood, a stolen pleasure, occasionally
not rightfully heard, much more for other ears than ours, for 'tis the
reverse of sound. It is not our own melody that comes back to us, but an
amended strain. And I would only hear myself as I would hear my echo,
corrected and repronounced for me. It is as when my friend reads my
verse.

The borders of our plot are set with flowers, whose seeds were blown
from more Elysian fields adjacent. They are the pot-herbs of the gods,
which our laborious feet have never reached, and fairer fruits and
unaccustomed fragrance betray another realm's vicinity. There, too, is
Echo found, with which we play at evening. There is the abutment of the
rainbow's arch.[398]


_Aug. 6._ Walden.—I have just been reading a book called "The Crescent
and the Cross,"[399] till now I am somewhat ashamed of myself. Am I
sick, or idle, that I can sacrifice my energy, America, and to-day to
this man's ill-remembered and indolent story? Carnac and Luxor are but
names, and still more desert sand and at length a wave of the great
ocean itself are needed to wash away the filth that attaches to their
grandeur. Carnac! Carnac! this is Carnac for me, and I behold the
columns of a larger and a purer temple.[400] May our childish and fickle
aspirations be divine, while we descend to this mean intercourse. Our
reading should be heroic, in an unknown tongue, a dialect always but
imperfectly learned, through which we stammer line by line, catching but
a glimmering of the sense, and still afterward admiring its unexhausted
hieroglyphics, its untranslated columns. Here grow around me nameless
trees and shrubs, each morning freshly sculptured, rising new stories
day by day, instead of hideous ruins,—their myriad-handed worker
uncompelled as uncompelling. This is my Carnac; that its unmeasured
dome. The measuring art man has invented flourishes and dies upon this
temple's floor, nor ever dreams to reach that ceiling's height. Carnac
and Luxor crumble underneath. Their shadowy roofs let in the light once
more reflected from the ceiling of the sky.

Behold these flowers! Let us be up with Time, not dreaming of three
thousand years ago. Erect ourselves and let those columns lie, not stoop
to raise a foil against the sky. Where is the _spirit_ of that time but
in this present day, this present line? Three thousand years ago are
not agone; they are still lingering here this summer morn.

     And Memnon's mother sprightly greets us now;
     Wears still her youthful blushes on her brow.
     And Carnac's columns, why stand they on the plain?
     T' enjoy our opportunities they would fain remain.


     This is my Carnac, whose unmeasured dome
     Shelters the measuring art and measurer's home,
     Whose propylæum is the system high [?]
     And sculptured façade the visible sky.

Where there is memory which compelleth Time, the Muses' mother, and the
Muses nine, there are all ages, past and future time,—unwearied memory
that does not forget the actions of the past, that does not forego
to stamp them freshly, that Old Mortality, industrious to retouch the
monuments of time, in the world's cemetery throughout every clime.[401]

       *       *       *       *       *

The student may read Homer or Æschylus in the original Greek; for to do
so implies to emulate their heroes,—the consecration of morning hours
to their pages.

The heroic books, though printed in the character of our mother tongue,
are always written in a foreign language, dead to idle and degenerate
times, and we must laboriously seek the meaning of each word and line,
conjecturing a larger sense than the text renders us, at last, out of
our own valor and generosity.[402]

       *       *       *       *       *

A man must find his own occasion in himself. The natural day is very
calm, and will hardly reprove our indolence. If there is no elevation
in our spirits, the pond will not seem elevated like a mountain tarn,
but a low pool, a silent muddy water, a place for fishermen.

I sit here at my window like a priest of Isis, and observe the phenomena
of three thousand years ago, yet unimpaired. The tantivy of wild
pigeons, an ancient race of birds, gives a voice to the air, flying by
twos and threes athwart my view or perching restless on the white pine
boughs occasionally; a fish hawk dimples the glassy surface of the pond
and brings up a fish; and for the last half-hour I have heard the rattle
of railroad cars conveying travellers from Boston to the country.[403]

       *       *       *       *       *

After the evening train has gone by and left the world to silence and
to me, the whip-poor-will chants her vespers for half an hour. And when
all is still at night, the owls take up the strain, like mourning women
their ancient ululu. Their most dismal scream is truly Ben-Jonsonian.
Wise midnight hags! It is no honest and blunt tu-whit tu-who of the
poets, but, without jesting, a most solemn graveyard ditty,—but the
mutual consolations of suicide lovers remembering the pangs and the
delights of supernal love in the infernal groves. And yet I love to hear
their wailing, their doleful responses, trilled along the woodside,
reminding me sometimes of music and singing birds, as if it were the
dark and tearful side of music, the regrets and sighs, that would fain
be sung. The spirits, the _low_ spirits and melancholy forebodings,
of fallen spirits who once in human shape night-walked the earth and
did the deeds of darkness, now expiating with their wailing hymns,
threnodiai, their sins in the very scenery of their transgressions. They
give me a new sense of the vastness and mystery of that nature which
is the common dwelling of us both. "Oh-o-o-o-o that I never had been
bor-or-or-or-orn!" sighs one on this side of the pond, and circles in
the restlessness of despair to some new perch in the gray oaks. Then,
"That I never had been bor-or-or-or-orn!" echoes one on the further
side, with a tremulous sincerity, and "Bor-or-or-or-orn" comes faintly
from far in the Lincoln woods.[404]

       *       *       *       *       *

And then the frogs, bullfrogs; they are the more sturdy spirits of
ancient wine-bibbers and wassailers, still unrepentant, trying to sing
a catch in their Stygian lakes. They would fain keep up the hilarious
good fellowship and all the rules of their old round tables, but they
have waxed hoarse and solemnly grave and serious their voices, mocking
at mirth, and their wine has lost its flavor and is only liquor to
distend their paunches, and never comes sweet intoxication to drown
the memory of the past, but mere saturation and water-logged dullness
and distension. Still the most aldermanic, with his chin upon a pad,
which answers for a napkin to his drooling chaps, under the eastern
shore quaffs a deep draught of the once scorned water, and passes
round the cup with the ejaculation _tr-r-r-r-r-oonk, tr-r-r-r-r-oonk,
tr-r-r-r-oonk!_ and straightway comes over the water from some distant
cove the selfsame password, where the next in seniority and girth has
gulped down to his mark; and when the strain has made the circuit of
the shores, then ejaculates the master of ceremonies with satisfaction
_tr-r-r-r-oonk!_ and each in turn repeats the sound, down to the least
distended, leakiest, flabbiest paunched, that there be no mistake; and
the bowl goes round again, until the sun dispels the morning mist, and
only the patriarch is not under the pond, but vainly bellowing _troonk_
from time to time, pausing for a reply.[405]

       *       *       *       *       *

All nature is classic and akin to art. The sumach and pine and hickory
which surround my house remind me of the most graceful sculpture.
Sometimes their tops, or a single limb or leaf, seems to have grown to a
distinct expression as if it were a symbol for me to interpret. Poetry,
painting, and sculpture claim at once and associate with themselves
those perfect specimens of the art of nature,—leaves, vines, acorns,
pine cones, etc. The critic must at last stand as mute though contented
before a true poem as before an acorn or a vine leaf. The perfect work
of art is received again into the bosom of nature whence its material
proceeded, and that criticism which can only detect its unnaturalness
has no longer any office to fulfill. The choicest maxims that have come
down to us are more beautiful or integrally wise than they are wise to
our understandings. This wisdom which we are inclined to pluck from
their stalk is the point only of a single association. Every natural
form—palm leaves and acorns, oak leaves and sumach and dodder—are
[_sic_] untranslatable aphorisms.

       *       *       *       *       *

Twenty-three years since, when I was five years old, I was brought from
Boston to this pond, away in the country,—which was then but another
name for the extended world for me,—one of the most ancient scenes
stamped on the tablets of my memory, the oriental Asiatic valley of my
world, whence so many races and inventions have gone forth in recent
times. That woodland vision for a long time made the drapery of my
dreams. That sweet solitude my spirit seemed so early to require that
I might have room to entertain my thronging guests, and that speaking
silence that my ears might distinguish the significant sounds. Somehow
or other it at once gave the preference to this recess among the pines,
where almost sunshine and shadow were the only inhabitants that varied
the scene, over that tumultuous and varied city, as if it had found its
proper nursery.

Well, now, to-night my flute awakes the echoes over this very water,
but one generation of pines has fallen, and with their stumps I have
cooked my supper, and a lusty growth of oaks and pines is rising all
around its brim and preparing its wilder aspect for new infant eyes.
Almost the same johnswort springs from the same perennial root in this
pasture. Even I have at length helped to clothe that fabulous landscape
of my imagination, and one result of my presence and influence is seen
in these bean leaves and corn blades and potato vines.[406]

       *       *       *       *       *

As difficult to preserve is the tenderness of your nature as the bloom
upon a peach.

Most men are so taken up with the cares and rude practice of life that
its finer fruits cannot be plucked by them. Literally, the laboring man
has not leisure for a strict and lofty integrity day by day; he cannot
afford to sustain the fairest and noblest relations. His labor will
depreciate in the market.

How can he remember well his ignorance who has so often to use his
knowledge.


_Aug. 15._ The sounds heard at this hour, 8.30, are the distant
rumbling of wagons over bridges,—a sound farthest heard of any human at
night,—the baying of dogs, the lowing of cattle in distant yards.[407]

What if we were to obey these fine dictates, these divine suggestions,
which are addressed to the mind and not to the body, which are certainly
true,—not to eat meat, not to buy, or sell, or barter, etc., etc., etc.?

       *       *       *       *       *

I will not plant beans another summer, but sincerity, truth, simplicity,
faith, trust, innocence, and see if they will not grow in this soil
with such manure as I have, and sustain me.[408] When a man meets a
man, it should not be some uncertain appearance and falsehood, but
the personification of great qualities. Here comes truth, perchance,
personified, along the road.[409] Let me see how Truth behaves. I have
not seen enough of her. He shall utter no foreign word, no doubtful
sentence, and I shall not make haste to part with him.

I would not forget that I deal with infinite and divine qualities in
my fellow. All men, indeed, are divine in their core of light, but that
is indistinct and distant to me, like the stars of the least magnitude,
or the galaxy itself, but my kindred planets show their round disks and
even their attendant moons to my eye.

Even the tired laborers I meet on the road, I really meet as travelling
gods, but it is as yet, and must be for a long season, without speech.


_Aug. 23. Saturday._ I set out this afternoon to go a-fishing for
pickerel to eke out my scanty fare of vegetables. From Walden I went
through the woods to Fair Haven, but by the way the rain came on again,
and my fates compelled me to stand a half-hour under a pine, piling
boughs over my head, and wearing my pocket handkerchief for an umbrella;
and when at length I had made one cast over the pickerel-weed, the
thunder gan romblen in the heven with that grisly steven that Chaucer
tells of.[410] (The gods must be proud, with such forked flashes and
such artillery to rout a poor unarmed fisherman.) I made haste to
the nearest hut for a shelter. This stood a half a mile off the road,
and so much the nearer to the pond. There dwelt a shiftless Irishman,
John Field, and his wife, and many children, from the broad-faced boy
that ran by his father's side to escape the rain to the wrinkled and
sibyl-like, crone-like infant, not knowing whether to take the part of
age or infancy, that sat upon its father's knee as in the palaces of
nobles, and looked out from its home in the midst of wet and hunger
inquisitively upon the stranger, with the privilege of infancy; the
young creature not knowing but it might be the last of a line of kings
instead of John Field's poor starveling brat, or, I should rather
say, still knowing that it was the last of a noble line and the hope
and cynosure of the world. An honest, hard-working, but shiftless man
plainly was John Field; and his wife, she too was brave to cook so many
succeeding dinners in the recesses of that lofty stove; with round,
greasy face and bare breast, still thinking to improve her condition one
day; with the never absent mop in hand, and yet no effects of it visible
anywhere. The chickens, like members of the family, stalked about the
room, too much humanized to roast well. They stood and looked in my eye
or pecked at my shoe. He told me his story, how hard he worked bogging
for a neighbor, at ten dollars an acre and the use of the land with
manure for one year, and the little broad-faced son worked cheerfully
at his father's side the while, not knowing, alas! how poor a bargain
he had made. Living, John Field, alas! without arithmetic; failing to
live.

"Do you ever fish?" said I. "Oh yes, I catch a mess when I am lying
by; good perch I catch." "What's your bait?" "I catch shiners with
fishworms, and bait the perch with them." "You'd better go now, John,"
said his wife, with glistening, hopeful face. But poor John Field
disturbed but a couple of fins, while I was catching a fair string,
and he said it was his luck; and when he changed seats luck changed
seats too. Thinking to live by some derivative old-country mode in this
primitive new country, _e. g._ to catch perch with shiners.[411]

       *       *       *       *       *

I find an instinct in me conducting to a mystic spiritual life, and also
another to a primitive savage life.

       *       *       *       *       *

Toward evening, as the world waxes darker, I am permitted to see the
woodchuck stealing across my path, and tempted to seize and devour it.
The wildest, most desolate scenes are strangely familiar to me.[412]

       *       *       *       *       *

Why not live a hard and emphatic life, not to be avoided, full of
adventures and work, learn much in it, travel much, though it be only in
these woods? I sometimes walk across a field with unexpected expansion
and long-missed content, as if there were a field worthy of me. The
usual daily boundaries of life are dispersed, and I see in what field
I stand.

When on my way this afternoon, Shall I go down this long hill in the
rain to fish in the pond? I ask myself. And I say to myself: Yes, roam
far, grasp life and conquer it, learn much and live. Your fetters are
knocked off; you are really free. Stay till late in the night; be unwise
and daring. See many men far and near, in their fields and cottages
before the sun sets, though as if many more were to be seen. And yet
each _rencontre_ shall be so satisfactory and simple that no other shall
seem possible. Do not repose every night as villagers do. The noble life
is continuous and unintermitting. At least, live with a longer radius.
Men come home at night only from the next field or street, where their
household echoes haunt, and their life pines and is sickly because
it breathes its own breath. Their shadows morning and evening reach
farther than their daily steps. But come home from far, from ventures
and perils, from enterprise and discovery and crusading, with faith
and experience and character.[413] Do not rest much. Dismiss prudence,
fear, conformity. Remember only what is promised. Make the day light
you, and the night hold a candle, though you be falling from heaven to
earth "from morn to dewy eve a summer's day."

For Vulcan's fall occupied a day, but our highest aspirations and
performances fill but the interstices of time.

       *       *       *       *       *

Are we not reminded in our better moments that we have been needlessly
husbanding somewhat, perchance our little God-derived capital, or
title to capital, guarding it by methods we know? But the most diffuse
prodigality a better wisdom teaches,—that we _hold_ nothing. We are not
what we were. By usurers' craft, by Jewish methods, we strive to retain
and increase the divinity in us, when infinitely the greater part of
divinity is out of us.

       *       *       *       *       *

Most men have forgotten that it was ever morning; but a few serene
memories, healthy and wakeful natures, there are who assure us that the
sun rose clear, heralded by the singing of birds,—this very day's sun,
which rose before Memnon was ready to greet it.

       *       *       *       *       *

In all the dissertations on language, men forget the language that
is, that is really universal, the inexpressible meaning that is in all
things and everywhere, with which the morning and evening teem. As if
language were especially of the tongue of course. With a more copious
learning or understanding of what is published, the present _languages_,
and all that they express, will be forgotten.

       *       *       *       *       *

The rays which streamed through the crevices will be no more remembered
when the shadow is wholly removed.

       *       *       *       *       *

Left house on account of plastering, Wednesday, November 12th, at night;
returned Saturday, December 6th.[414]

       *       *       *       *       *

Though the race is not so degenerated but a man might possibly live
in a cave to-day and keep himself warm by furs, yet, as caves and wild
beasts are not plenty enough to accommodate all at the present day, it
were certainly better to accept the advantages which the invention and
industry of mankind offer. In thickly settled civilized communities,
boards and shingles, lime and brick, are cheaper and more easily come by
than suitable caves, or the whole logs, or bark in sufficient quantity,
or even well-tempered clay or flat stones.[415] A tolerable house for
a rude and hardy race that lived much out of doors was once made here
without any of these last materials. According to the testimony of the
first settlers of Boston, an Indian wigwam was as comfortable in winter
as an English house with all its wainscotting, and they had advanced so
far as to regulate the effect of the wind by a mat suspended over the
hole in the roof, which was moved by a string. Such a lodge was, in the
first instance, constructed in a day or two and taken down and put up
again in a few hours, and every family had one.[416]

       *       *       *       *       *

Thus, to try our civilization by a fair test, in the ruder states of
society every family owns a shelter as good as the best, and sufficient
for its ruder and simpler wants; but in modern civilized society, though
the birds of the air have their nests, and woodchucks and foxes their
holes, though each one is commonly the owner of his coat and hat though
never so poor, yet not more than one man in a thousand owns a shelter,
but the nine hundred and ninety-nine pay an annual tax for this outside
garment of all, indispensable summer and winter, which would buy a
village of Indian wigwams and contributes to keep them poor as long
as they live. But, answers one, by simply paying this annual tax the
poorest man secures an abode which is a palace compared to the Indian's.
An annual rent of from twenty to sixty or seventy dollars entitles him
to the benefit of all the improvements of centuries,—Rumford fireplace,
back plastering, Venetian blinds, copper pump, spring lock, etc.,
etc.[417] But while civilization has been improving our houses, she has
not equally improved the men who should occupy them. She has created
palaces, but it was not so easy to create noblemen and kings. The mason
who finishes the cornice of the palace returns at night, perchance, to
a hut no better than a wigwam.[418] If she claims to have made a real
advance in the welfare of man, she must show how she has produced better
dwellings without making them more costly. And the cost of a thing, it
will be remembered, is the amount of life it requires to be exchanged
for it, immediately or in the long run. An average house costs perhaps
from one thousand to fifteen hundred dollars, and to earn this sum will
require from fifteen to twenty years of the day laborer's life, even
if he is not incumbered with a family; so that he must spend more than
half his life before a wigwam can be earned; and if we suppose he pays
a rent instead, this is but a doubtful choice of evils. Would the savage
have been wise to exchange his wigwam for a palace on these terms?[419]

When I consider my neighbors, the farmers of Concord, for instance, who
are at least as well off as the other classes, what are they about? For
the most part I find that they have been toiling ten, twenty, or thirty
years to pay for their farms, and we may set down one half of that toil
to the cost of their houses; and commonly they have not yet paid for
them.[420] This is the reason they are poor; and for similar reasons we
are all poor in respect to a thousand savage comforts, though surrounded
by luxuries.[421]

       *       *       *       *       *

But most men do not know what a house is, and the mass are actually
poor all their days because they think they must have such an one as
their neighbor's. As if one were to wear any sort of coat the tailor
might cut out for him, or, gradually leaving off palm-leaf hat and cap
of woodchuck-skin, should complain of hard times because he could not
buy him a crown![422]

       *       *       *       *       *

It reflects no little dignity on Nature, the fact that the Romans once
inhabited her,—that from this same unaltered hill, forsooth, the Roman
once looked out upon the sea, as from a signal station. The vestiges of
military roads, of houses and tessellated courts and baths,—Nature need
not be ashamed of these relics of her children. The hero's cairn,—one
doubts at length whether his relations or Nature herself raised the
hill. The whole earth is but a hero's cairn. How often are the Romans
flattered by the historian and antiquary! Their vessels penetrated
into this frith and up that river of some remote isle. Their military
monuments still remain on the hills and under the sod of the valleys.
The oft-repeated Roman story is written in still legible characters
in every quarter of the old world, and but to-day a new coin is dug up
whose inscription repeats and confirms their fame. Some "Judæa Capta,"
with a woman mourning under a palm tree, with silent argument and
demonstration puts at rest whole pages of history.[423]


The Earth

     Which seems so barren once gave birth
     To heroes, who o'erran her plains,
     Who plowed her seas and reaped her grains.

Some make the mythology of the Greeks to have been borrowed from that of
the Hebrews, which however is not to be proved by analogies,—the story
of Jupiter dethroning his father Saturn, for instance, from the conduct
of Cham towards his father Noah, and the division of the world among
the three brothers. But the Hebrew fable will not bear to be compared
with the Grecian. The latter is infinitely more sublime and divine. The
one is a history of mortals, the other a history of gods and heroes,
therefore not so ancient. The one god of the Hebrews is not so much of
a gentleman, not so gracious and divine, not so flexible and catholic,
does not exert so intimate an influence on nature as many a one of the
Greeks. He is not less human, though more absolute and unapproachable.
The Grecian were youthful and living gods, but still of godlike or
divine race, and had the virtues of gods. The Hebrew had not all of
the divinity that is in man, no real love for man, but an inflexible
justice. The attribute of the one god has been infinite power, not
grace, not humanity, nor love even,—wholly masculine, with no sister
Juno, no Apollo, no Venus in him. I might say that the one god was not
yet apotheosized, not yet become the current material of poetry.[424]

       *       *       *       *       *

The wisdom of some of those Greek fables is remarkable. The god Apollo
(Wisdom, Wit, Poetry) condemned to serve, keep the sheep of _King_
Admetus. So is poetry allied to the state.

       *       *       *       *       *

To Æacus, Minos, Rhadamanthus, judges in hell, only naked men came to
be judged. As Alexander Ross comments, "In this world we must not look
for Justice; when we are stript of all, then shall we have it. For here
something will be found about us that shall corrupt the Judge." When the
island of Ægina was depopulated by sickness at the instance of Æacus,
Jupiter turned the ants into men, _i. e._ made men of the inhabitants
who lived meanly like ants.[425]

       *       *       *       *       *

The hidden significance of these fables which has been detected, the
ethics running parallel to the poetry and history, is not so remarkable
as the readiness with which they may be made to express any truth.
They are the skeletons of still older and more universal truths than
any whose flesh and blood they are for the time made to wear. It is
like striving to make the sun and the wind and the sea signify. What
signifies it?[426]

       *       *       *       *       *

Piety, that carries its father on its shoulders.[427]

       *       *       *       *       *

Music was of three kinds,—mournful, martial, and effeminate,—Lydian,
Doric, and Phrygian. Its inventors Amphion, Thamyris, and Marsyas.
Amphion was bred by shepherds. He caused the stones to follow him and
built the walls of Thebes by his music. All orderly and harmonious or
beautiful structures may be said to be raised to a slow music.

Harmony was begotten of Mars and Venus.

       *       *       *       *       *

Antæus was the son of Neptune and the Earth. All physical bulk and
strength is of the earth and mortal. When it loses this _point d'appui_
it is weakness; it cannot soar. And so, _vice versa_, you can interpret
this fable to the credit of the earth.

       *       *       *       *       *

They all provoked or challenged the gods,—Amphion, Apollo and Diana,
and was killed by them; Thamyris, the Muses, who conquered him in music,
took away his eyesight and melodious voice, and broke his lyre. Marsyas
took up the flute which Minerva threw away, challenged Apollo, was
flayed alive by him, and his death mourned by Fauns, Satyrs, and Dryads,
whose tears produced the river which bears his name.

       *       *       *       *       *

The fable which is truly and naturally composed, so as to please the
imagination of a child, harmonious though strange like a wild-flower,
is to the wise man an apothegm and admits his wisest interpretation.

When we read that Bacchus made the Tyrrhenian mariners mad, so that they
leaped into the sea, mistaking it for "a meadow full of flowers," and
so became dolphins, we are not concerned about the historical truth of
this, but rather a higher, poetical truth. We seem to hear the music of
a thought, and care not if our intellect be not gratified.[428]

       *       *       *       *       *

The mythologies, those vestiges of ancient poems, the world's
inheritance, still reflecting some of their original hues, like the
fragments of clouds tinted by the departed sun, the wreck of poems,
a retrospect as [of] the loftiest fames,—what survives of oldest
fame,—some fragment will still float into the latest summer day and
ally this hour to the morning of creation. These are the materials and
hints for a history of the rise and progress of the race. How from
the condition of ants it arrived at the condition of men, how arts
were invented gradually,—let a thousand surmises shed some light on
this story. We will not be confined by historical, even geological,
periods, which would allow us to doubt of a progress in human events.
If we rise above this wisdom for the day, we shall expect that
this morning of the race, in which they have been supplied with the
simplest necessaries,—with corn and wine and honey and oil and fire and
articulate speech and agricultural and other arts,—reared up by degrees
from the condition of ants to men, will be succeeded by a day of equally
progressive splendor; that, in the lapse of the divine periods, other
divine agents and godlike men will assist to elevate the race as much
above its present condition.

       *       *       *       *       *

Aristæus "found out honey and oil." "He obtained of Jupiter and Neptune,
that the pestilential heat of the dog-days, wherein was great mortality,
should be mitigated with wind."[429]


_Dec. 12. Friday._ The pond skimmed over on the night of this day,
excepting a strip from the bar to the northwest shore. Flint's Pond has
been frozen for some time.[430]


_Dec. 16, 17, 18, 19, 20._ Pond _quite free_ from ice, not yet having
been frozen quite over.


_Dec. 23. Tuesday._ The pond froze over last night entirely for the
first time, yet so as not to be safe to walk upon.[431]

       *       *       *       *       *

I wish to say something to-night not of and concerning the Chinese and
Sandwich-Islanders, but _to_ and concerning you who hear me, who are
said to live in New England; something about your condition, especially
your outward condition or circumstances in this world, in this town;
what it is, whether it is necessarily as bad as it is, whether it can't
be improved as well as not.[432]

It is generally admitted that some of you are poor, find it hard to get
a living, haven't always something in your pockets, haven't paid for all
the dinners you've actually eaten, or all your coats and shoes, some
of which are already worn out. All this is very well known to all by
hearsay and by experience. It is very evident what a mean and sneaking
life you live, always in the hampers, always on the limits, trying to
get into business and trying to get out of debt, a very ancient slough,
called by the Latins _aes alienum_, another's brass,—some of their
coins being made of brass,—and still so many living and dying and buried
to-day by another's brass; always promising to pay, promising to pay,
with interest, to-morrow perhaps, and die to-day, insolvent; seeking
to curry favor, to get custom, lying, flattering, voting, contracting
yourselves into a nutshell of civility or dilating into a world of thin
and vaporous generosity, that you may persuade your neighbor to let you
make his [shoes, or his hat, or his coat, or his carriage, etc.].[433]

       *       *       *       *       *

There is a civilization going on among brutes as well as men. Foxes
are forest dogs. I hear one barking raggedly, wildly, demoniacally in
the darkness to-night, seeking expression, laboring with some anxiety,
striving to be a dog outright that he may carelessly run in the
street, struggling for light. He is but a faint man, before pygmies; an
imperfect, burrowing man. He has come up near to my window, attracted
by the light, and barked a vulpine curse at me, then retreated.[434]

       *       *       *       *       *

Reading suggested by Hallam's History of Literature.

1. "Abelard and Heloise."

2. Look at Luigi Pulci. His "Morgante Maggiore," published in 1481,
"was to the poetical romances of chivalry what Don Quixote was to their
brethren in prose."

3. Leonardo da Vinci. The most remarkable of his writings still in
manuscript. For his universality of genius, "the first name of the
fifteenth century."

4. Read Boiardo's "Orlando Innamorato," published between 1491 and 1500,
for its influence on Ariosto and its intrinsic merits. Its sounding
names repeated by Milton in "Paradise Regained."

       *       *       *       *       *

Landor's works are:—

A small volume of poems, 1793, out of print.

Poems of "Gebir," "Chrysaor," the "Phoceans," etc. The "Gebir" eulogized
by Southey and Coleridge.

Wrote verses in Italian and Latin.

The dramas "Andrea of Hungary," "Giovanna of Naples," and "Fra Rupert."

"Pericles and Aspasia."

"Poems from the Arabic and Persian," 1800, pretending to be translations.

"A Satire upon Satirists, and Admonition to Detractors," printed 1836,
not published.

Letters called "High and Low Life in Italy."

"Imaginary Conversations."

"Pentameron and Pentalogia."

"Examination of William Shakspeare before Sir Thomas Lucy, Knt.,
touching Deer-stealing."

       *       *       *       *       *

_Vide_ again Richard's sail in "Richard First and the Abbot."[435]

Phocion's remarks in conclusion of "Eschines and Phocion."

"Demosthenes and Eubulides."

In Milton and Marvel, speaking of the Greek poets, he says, "There is a
sort of refreshing odor flying off it perpetually; not enough to oppress
or to satiate; nothing is beaten or bruised; nothing smells of the
stalk; the flower itself is half-concealed by the Genius of it hovering
round."

Pericles and Sophocles.

Marcus Tullius Cicero and his brother Quintus. In this a sentence on
Sleep and Death.

Johnson and Tooke, for a criticism on words.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is worth the while to have lived a primitive wilderness life at
some time, to know what are, after all, the necessaries of life and
what methods society has taken to supply them. I have looked over the
old day-books of the merchants with the same view,—to see what it was
shopmen bought. They are the grossest groceries.[436] Salt is perhaps
the most important article in such a list, and most commonly bought at
the stores, of articles commonly thought to be necessaries,—salt, sugar,
molasses, cloth, etc.,—by the farmer. You will see why stores or shops
exist, not to furnish tea and coffee, but salt, etc. Here's the rub,
then.

I see how I could supply myself with every other article which I need,
without using the shops, and to obtain this might be the fit occasion
for a visit to the seashore. Yet even salt cannot strictly speaking be
called a necessary of human life, since many tribes do not use it.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Have you seen my hound, sir? I want to know!—what! a lawyer's office?
law books?—if you've seen anything of a hound about here. Why, what do
you do here?" "I live here. No, I haven't." "Haven't you heard one in
the woods anywhere?" "Oh, yes, I heard one this evening." "What do you
do here?" "But he was some way off." "Which side did he seem to be?"
"Well, I should think he [was] the other side of the pond." "This is a
large dog; makes a large track. He's been out hunting from Lexington for
a week. How long have you lived here?" "Oh, about a year." "Somebody
said there was a man up here had a camp in the woods somewhere, and
he'd got him." "Well, I don't know of anybody. There's Britton's camp
over on the other road. It may be there." "Isn't there anybody in these
woods?" "Yes, they are chopping right up here behind me." "How far is
it?" "Only a few steps. Hark a moment. There, don't you hear the sound
of their axes?"[437]

       *       *       *       *       *

Therien, the woodchopper, was here yesterday, and while I was cutting
wood, some chickadees hopped near pecking the bark and chips and the
potato-skins I had thrown out. "What do you call them," he asked. I told
him.

"What do _you_ call them," asked I. "_Mezezence_[?]," I think he said.
"When I eat my dinner in the woods," said he, "sitting very still,
having kindled a fire to warm my coffee, they come and light on my arm
and peck at the potato in my fingers. I like to have the little fellers
about me."[438] Just then one flew up from the snow and perched on the
wood I was holding in my arms, and pecked it, and looked me familiarly
in the face. _Chicadee-dee-dee-dee-dee_, while others were whistling
phebe,—_phe-bee_,—in the woods behind the house.[439]


_March 26, 1846._ The change from foul weather to fair, from dark,
sluggish hours to serene, elastic ones, is a memorable crisis which all
things proclaim. The change from foulness to serenity is instantaneous.
Suddenly an influx of light, though it was late, filled my room. I
looked out and saw that the pond was already calm and full of hope as
on a summer evening, though the ice was dissolved but yesterday. There
seemed to be some intelligence in the pond which responded to the unseen
serenity in a distant horizon. I heard a robin in the distance,—the
first I had heard this spring,—repeating the assurance. The green pitch
[pine] suddenly looked brighter and more erect, as if now entirely
washed and cleansed by the rain. I knew it would not rain any more. A
serene summer-evening sky seemed darkly reflected in the pond, though
the clear sky was nowhere visible overhead. It was no longer the end
of a season, but the beginning. The pines and shrub oaks, which had
before drooped and cowered the winter through with myself, now recovered
their several characters and in the landscape revived the expression
of an immortal beauty. Trees seemed all at once to be fitly grouped,
to sustain new relations to men and to one another. There was somewhat
cosmical in the arrangement of nature. O the evening robin, at the close
of a New England day! If I could ever find the twig he sits upon! Where
does the minstrel really roost? We perceive it is not the bird of the
ornithologist that is heard,—the _Turdus migratorius_.

The signs of fair weather are seen in the bosom of ponds before they are
recognized in the heavens. It is easy to tell by looking at any twig of
the forest whether its winter is past or not.[440]

We forget how the sun looks on our fields, as on the forests and the
prairies, as they reflect or absorb his rays. It matters not whether we
stand in Italy or on the prairies of the West, in the eye of the sun the
earth is all equally cultivated like a garden, and yields to the wave
of an irresistible civilization.

This broad field, which I have looked on so long, looks not to me as
the farmer, looks away from me to the sun, and attends to the harmony of
nature. These beans have results which are not harvested in the autumn
of the year. They do not mind, if I harvest them, who waters and makes
them grow? Our grain-fields make part of a beautiful picture which the
sun beholds in his daily course, and it matters little comparatively
whether they fill the barns of the husbandman. The true husbandman will
cease from anxiety and labor with every day, and relinquish all claim
to the produce of his fields.[441]

The avaricious man would fain plant by himself.

A flock of geese has just got in late, now in the dark flying low
over the pond. They came on, indulging at last like weary travellers
in complaint and consolation, or like some creaking evening mail late
lumbering in with regular anserine clangor. I stood at my door and could
hear their wings when they suddenly spied my light and, ceasing their
noise, wheeled to the east and apparently settled in the pond.[442]


_March 27._ This morning I saw the geese from the door through the mist
sailing about in the middle of the pond, but when I went to the shore
they rose and circled round like ducks over my head, so that I counted
them,—twenty-nine. I after saw thirteen ducks.[443]




VIII

1845-1847

(ÆT. 27-30)


[The small and much mutilated journal which begins here appears to
belong to the Walden period (1845-47), but the entries are undated.]


THE HERO[444]

             What doth he ask?
             Some worthy task,
             Never to run
             Till that be done,
             That never done
             Under the sun.
             Here to begin
             All things to win
             By his endeavor
             Forever and ever.
             Happy and well
             On this ground to dwell,
             This soil subdue,
             Plant, and renew.
             By might and main
             Health and strength gain,
             So to give nerve
                     To his slenderness;
             Yet some mighty pain
             He would sustain,
             So to preserve
             His tenderness.
             Not be deceived,
             Of suff'ring bereaved,
             Not lose his life
             By living too well,
             Nor escape strife
             In his lonely cell,
             And so find out heaven
             By not knowing hell.
             Strength like the rock
             To withstand any shock,
             Yet some Aaron's rod,
             Some smiting by God,
             Occasion to gain
             To shed human tears
             And to entertain
             Still demonic fears.
     Not once for all, forever, blest,
     Still to be cheered out of the west;
     Not from his heart to banish all sighs;
     Still be encouraged by the sunrise;
     Forever to love and to love and to love,
     Within him, around him, beneath him, above.
     To love is to know, is to feel, is to be;
     At once 'tis his birth and his destiny.
             Having sold all,
             Something would get,
                     Furnish his stall
             With better yet,—
             For earthly pleasures
             Celestial pains,
             Heavenly losses
             For earthly gains.
             Still to begin—unheard-of sin
             A fallen angel—a risen man
             Never returns to where he began.
             Some childlike labor
             Here to perform,
             Some baby-house
             To keep out the storm,
             And make the sun laugh
             While he doth warm,
             And the moon cry
             To think of her youth,
             The months gone by,
             And wintering truth.

             How long to morning?
             Can any tell?
             How long since the warning
             On our ears fell?
             The bridegroom cometh
             Know we not well?
             Are we not ready,
             Our packet made,
             Our hearts steady,
             Last words said?
             Must we still eat
                     The bread we have spurned?
             Must we rekindle
             The faggots we've burned?
             Must we go out
             By the poor man's gate?
             Die by degrees,
             Not by new fate?
             Is there no road
             This way, my friend?
             Is there no road
             Without any end?
             Have you not seen
             In ancient times
             Pilgrims go by here
             Toward other climes,
             With shining faces
             Youthful and strong
             Mounting this hill
             With speech and with song?
             Oh, my good sir,
             I know not the ways;
             Little my knowledge,
             Though many my days.
             When I have slumbered,
             I have heard sounds
             As travellers passing
             Over my grounds.
             'Twas a sweet music
             Wafted them by;
             I could not tell
             If far off or nigh.
                     Unless I dreamed it,
             This was of yore,
             But I never told it
             To mortal before;
             Never remembered
             But in my dreams
             What to me waking
             A miracle seems.
     If you will give of your pulse or your grain,
     We will rekindle those flames again.
     Here will we tarry, still without doubt,
     Till a miracle putteth that fire out.

       *       *       *       *       *

     At midnight's hour I raised my head.
     The owls were seeking for their bread;
     The foxes barked, impatient still
     At their wan [?] fate they bear so ill.
     I thought me of eternities delayed
     And of commands but half obeyed.
     The night wind rustled through the glade,
     As if a force of men there staid;
     The word was whispered through the ranks,
     And every hero seized his lance.
     The word was whispered through the ranks,
           Advance!

To live to a good old age such as the ancients reached, serene and
contented, dignifying the life of man, leading a simple, epic country
life in these days of confusion and turmoil,—that is what Wordsworth
has done. Retaining the tastes and the innocence of his youth. There is
more wonderful talent, but nothing so cheering and world-famous as this.

The life of man would seem to be going all to wrack and pieces, and no
instance of permanence and the ancient natural health, notwithstanding
Burns, and Coleridge, and Carlyle. It will not do for men to die young;
the greatest genius does not die young. Whom the gods love most do
indeed die young, but not till their life is matured, and their years
are like those of the oak, for they are the products half of nature and
half of God. What should nature do without old men, not children but
men?

The life of men, not to become a mockery and a jest, should last a
respectable term of years. We cannot spare the age of those old Greek
Philosophers. They live long who do not live for a near end, who still
forever look to the immeasurable future for their manhood.

       *       *       *       *       *

All dramas have but one scene. There is but one stage for the peasant
and for the actor, and both on the farm and in the theatre the curtain
rises to reveal the same majestic scenery. The globe of earth is poised
in space for his stage under the foundations of the theatre, and the
cope of heaven, out of reach of the scene-shifter, overarches it. It
is always to be remembered by the critic that all actions are to be
regarded at last as performed from a distance upon some rood of earth
and amid the operations of nature.

Rabelais, too, inhabited the soil of France in sunshine and shade in
those years; and his life was no "farce" after all.

     I seek the present time,
     No other clime,
     Life in to-day,—
     Not to sail another way,—
     To Paris or to Rome,
     Or farther still from home.
     That man, whoe'er he is,
     Lives but a moral death
     Whose life is not coeval
     With his breath.
     My feet forever stand
     On Concord fields,
     And I must live the life
     Which their soil yields.
     What are deeds done
     Away from home?
     What the best essay
     On the Ruins of Rome?
     The love of the new,
     The unfathomed blue,
     The wind in the wood,
     All future good,
     The sunlit tree,
     The small chickadee,
     The dusty highways,
     What Scripture says,
     This pleasant weather,
     And all else together,
     The river's meander,
     All things, in short,
     Forbid me to wander
     In deed or in thought.
     In cold or in drouth,
     Not seek the sunny South,
     But make my whole tour
     In the sunny present hour.

     For here if thou fail,
     Where can'st thou prevail?
     If you love not
     Your own land most,
     You'll find nothing lovely
     On a distant coast.
     If you love not
     The latest sunset,
     What is there in pictures
     Or old gems set?
     If no man should travel
     Till he had the means,
     There'd be little travelling
     For kings or for queens.
     The means, what are they?
     They are the wherewithal
     Great expenses to pay,
     Life got, and some to spare,
     Great works on hand,
     And freedom from care,
     Plenty of time well spent
     To use,
     Clothes paid for and no rent
     In your shoes,
     Something to eat


     And something to burn,
     And above all no need to return.
     Then they who come back,
     Say, have they not failed,
     Wherever they've ridden,
     Or steamed it, or sailed?

     All your grass hay'd,
     All your debts paid,
     All your wills made;
     Then you might as well have stay'd,
     For are you not dead,
     Only not buried?

     The way unto "to-day,"
     The railroad to "here,"
     They never'll grade that way
     Nor shorten it, I fear.
     There are plenty of depots
     All the world o'er,
     But not a single station
     At a man's door.
     If he would get near
     To the secret of things,
     He'll not have to hear
     When the engine bell rings.

Exaggeration! was ever any virtue attributed to a man without
exaggeration? was ever any vice, without infinite exaggeration? Do
we not exaggerate ourselves to ourselves, or do we often recognize
ourselves for the actual men we are? The lightning is an exaggeration
of light. We live by exaggeration. Exaggerated history is poetry, and
is truth referred to a new standard. To a small man every greater one
is an exaggeration. No truth was ever expressed but with this sort of
emphasis, so that for the time there was no other truth. The value of
what is really valuable can never be exaggerated. You must speak loud to
those who are hard of hearing; so you acquire a habit of speaking loud
to those who are not. In order to appreciate any, even the humblest,
man, you must not only understand, but you must first love him; and
there never was such an exaggerator as love. Who are we? Are we not all
of us great men? And yet what [are] we actually? Nothing, certainly, to
speak of. By an immense exaggeration we appreciate our Greek poetry and
philosophy, Egyptian ruins, our Shakespeares and Miltons, our liberty
and Christianity. We give importance to this hour over all other hours.
We do not live by justice, but [by grace.][445]

       *       *       *       *       *

Love never perjures itself, nor is it mistaken.

       *       *       *       *       *

He is not the great writer, who is afraid to let the world know that he
ever committed an impropriety. Does it not know that all men are mortal?

       *       *       *       *       *

Carlyle told R. W. E. that he first discovered that he was not a jackass
on reading "Tristram Shandy" and Rousseau's "Confessions," especially
the last. His first essay is an article in _Fraser's Magazine_ on two
boys quarrelling.

       *       *       *       *       *

Youth wants something to look up to, to look forward to; as the little
boy who inquired of me the other day, "How long do those old-agers
live?" and expressed the intention of compassing two hundred summers at
least. The old man who cobbles shoes without glasses at a hundred, and
cuts a handsome swath at a hundred and five, is indispensable to give
dignity and respectability to our life.

       *       *       *       *       *

From all points of the compass, from the earth beneath and the heavens
above, have come these inspirations and been entered duly in the order
of their arrival in the journal. Thereafter, when the time arrived, they
were winnowed into lectures, and again, in due time, from lectures into
essays. And at last they stand, like the cubes of Pythagoras, firmly on
either basis; like statues on their pedestals, but the statues rarely
take hold of hands. There is only such connection and series as is
attainable in the galleries. And this affects their immediate practical
and popular influence.

       *       *       *       *       *

Carlyle, we should say, more conspicuously than any other, though with
little enough expressed or even conscious sympathy, represents the
Reformer class. In him the universal plaint is most settled and serious.
Until the thousand named and nameless grievances are righted, there will
be no repose for him in the lap of Nature or the seclusion of science
and literature. And all the more for not being the visible acknowledged
leader of any class.[446]

       *       *       *       *       *

All places, all positions—all things in short—are a medium happy or
unhappy. Every realm has its centre, and the nearer to that the better
while you are in it. Even health is only the happiest of all mediums.
There may be excess, or there may be deficiency; in either case there
is disease. A man must only be _virtuous_ enough.

       *       *       *       *       *

I had one neighbor within half a mile for a short time when I first
went to the woods, Hugh Quoil, an Irishman who had been a soldier at
Waterloo, Colonel Quoil, as he was called,—I believe that he had killed
a colonel and ridden off his horse,—who lived from hand—sometimes to
mouth,—though it was commonly a glass of rum that the hand carried. He
and his wife awaited their fate together in an old ruin in Walden woods.
What life he got—or what means of death—he got by ditching.

I never was much acquainted with Hugh Quoil, though sometimes I met him
in the path, and now do believe that a solid shank-bone, and skull which
no longer aches, lie somewhere, and can still be produced, which once
with garment of flesh and broadcloth were called and hired to do work
as Hugh Quoil. He was a man of manners and gentlemanlike, as one who
had seen the world, and was capable of more civil speech than you could
well attend to. At a distance he had seemingly a ruddy face as of biting
January, but nearer at hand it was bright carmine. It would have burnt
your finger to touch his cheek. He wore a straight-bodied snuff-colored
coat which had long been familiar with him, and carried a turf-knife in
his hand—instead of a sword. He had fought on the English side before,
but he fought on the Napoleon side now. Napoleon went to St. Helena;
Hugh Quoil came to Walden Pond. I heard that he used to tell travellers
who inquired about myself that —— and Thoreau owned the _farm_ together,
but Thoreau lived on the _place_ and carried it on.[447]

He was thirstier than I, and drank more, probably, but not out of
the pond. That was never the lower for him. Perhaps I ate more than
he. The last time I met him, the only time I spoke with him, was at
the foot of the hill on the highway as I was crossing to the spring
one summer afternoon, the pond water being too warm for me. I was
crossing the road with a pail in my hand, when Quoil came down the
hill, wearing his snuff-colored coat, as if it were winter, and shaking
with delirium-tremens. I hailed him and told him that my errand was to
get water at a spring close by, only at the foot of the hill over the
fence. He answered, with stuttering and parched lips, bloodshot eye,
and staggering gesture, he'd like to see it. "Follow me there, then."
But I had got my pail full and back before he scaled the fence. And he,
drawing his coat about him, to warm him, or to cool him, answered in
delirium-tremens, hydrophobia dialect, which is not easy to be written
here, he'd heard of it, but had never seen it; and so shivered his way
along to town,—to liquor and to oblivion.

On Sundays, brother Irishmen and others, who had gone far astray
from steady habits and the village, crossed my bean-field with empty
jugs toward Quoil's. But what for? Did they sell rum there? I asked.
"Respectable people they," "Know no harm of them," "Never heard that
they drank too much," was the answer of all wayfarers. They went by
sober, stealthy, silent, skulking (no harm to get elm bark Sundays);
returned loquacious, sociable, having long intended to call on you.

At length one afternoon Hugh Quoil, feeling better, perchance, with
snuff-colored coat, as usual, paced solitary and soldier-like, thinking
[of] Waterloo, along the woodland road to the foot of the hill by
the spring; and there the Fates met him, and threw him down in his
snuff-colored coat on the gravel, and got ready to cut his thread;
but not till travellers passed, who would raise him up, get him
perpendicular, then settle, settle quick; but legs, what are they? "Lay
me down," says Hugh hoarsely. "House locked up—key—in pocket—wife in
town." And the Fates cut, and there he lay by the wayside, five feet
ten, and looking taller than in life.

He has gone away; his house here "all tore to pieces." What kind of
fighting or ditching work he finds to do now, how it fares with him,
whether his thirst is quenched, whether there is still some semblance of
that carmine cheek, struggles still with some liquid demon—perchance on
more equal terms—till he swallow him completely, I cannot by any means
learn. What his salutation is now, what his January-morning face, what
he thinks of Waterloo, what start he has gained or lost, what work still
for the ditcher and forester and soldier now, there is no evidence. He
was here, the likes of him, for a season, standing light in his shoes
like a faded gentleman, with gesture almost learned in drawing-rooms;
wore clothes, hat, shoes, cut ditches, felled wood, did farm work for
various people, kindled fires, worked enough, ate enough, drank too
much. He was one of those unnamed, countless sects of philosophers who
founded no school.

Now that he was gone, and his wife was gone too,—for she could not
support the solitude,—before it was too late and the house was torn
down, I went over to make a call. Now that Irishmen with jugs avoided
the old house, I visited it,—an "unlucky castle now," said they. There
lay his old clothes curled up by habit, as if it were himself, upon his
raised plank bed. His pipe lay broken on the hearth; and scattered about
were soiled cards—king of diamonds, hearts, spades—on the floor. One
black chicken, which they could not catch, still went to roost in the
next apartment, stepping silent over the floor, frightened by the sound
of its own wings, black as night and as silent, too, not even croaking;
awaiting Reynard, its god actually dead. There was the dim outline of a
garden which had been planted, but had never received its first hoeing,
now overrun with weeds, with burs and cockles, which stick to your
clothes; as if in the spring he had contemplated a harvest of corn and
beans before that strange trembling of the limbs overtook him. Skin of
woodchuck fresh-stretched, never to be cured, met once in bean-field by
the Waterloo man with uplifted hoe; no cap, no mittens wanted. Pipe on
hearth no more to be lighted, best buried with him.[448]

       *       *       *       *       *

No thirst for glory, only for strong drink.

       *       *       *       *       *

Only the convalescent are conscious of the health of nature.

       *       *       *       *       *

In case of an embargo there will be found to be old clothes enough in
everybody's garret to last till the millennium. We are fond of news,
novelties, new things. The bank-bill that is torn in two will pass if
you save the pieces, if you have only got the essential piece with the
signatures. Lowell and Manchester and Fall River think you will let go
their broadcloth currency when it is torn; but hold on, have an eye to
the signature about the back of it, and endorse the man's name from whom
you received it, and they will be the first to fail and find nothing at
all in their garrets. Every day our garments become more assimilated to
the man that wears them, more near and dear to us, and not finally to
be laid aside but with such delay and medical appliance and solemnity
as our other mortal coil.[449] We know, after all, but few men, a great
many coats and breeches. Dress a scarecrow with your last shift, you
standing shiftless by, who would not soonest address the scarecrow and
salute it?[450]

King James loved his old shoes best. Who does not? Indeed these new
clothes are often won and worn only after a most painful birth. At
first movable prisons, oyster-shells which the tide only raises, opens,
and shuts, washing in what scanty nutriment may be afloat. How many
men walk over the limits, carrying their limits with them? In the
stocks they stand, not without gaze of multitudes, only without rotten
eggs, in torturing boots, the last wedge but one driven. Why should
we be startled at death? Life is constant putting off of the mortal
coil,—coat, cuticle, flesh and bones, all old clothes.

Not till the prisoner has got some rents in his prison walls,
possibility of egress without lock and key some day,—result of steel
watch-spring rubbing on iron grate, or whatever friction and wear and
tear,—will he rest contented in his prison.

Clothes brought in sewing, a kind of work you may call endless.[451]

A man who has at length found out something important to do will not
have to get a new suit to do it in. For him the old will do, lying
dusty in the garret for an indefinite period. Old shoes will serve a
hero longer than they have served his valet. Bare feet are the oldest
of shoes, and he can make them do. Only they who go to legislature
and soirées,—they must have new coats, coats to turn as often as the
man turns in them. Who ever saw his old shoes, his old coat, actually
worn out, returned to their original elements, so that it was not [a]
deed [of] charity to bestow them on some poorer boy, and by him to be
bestowed on some poorer still, or shall we say on some richer who can
do with less?[452]

       *       *       *       *       *

Over eastward of my bean-field lived Cato Ingraham, slave, born slave,
perhaps, of Duncan Ingraham, Esquire, gentleman, of Concord village,
who built him a house and gave him permission to live in Walden Woods,
for which no doubt he was thanked; and then, on the northeast corner,
Zilpha, colored woman of fame; and down the road, on the right hand,
Brister, colored man, on Brister's Hill, where grow still those little
wild apples he tended, now large trees, but still wild and ciderish
to my taste; and farther still you come to Breed's location, and again
on the left, by well and roadside, Nutting lived. Farther up the road,
at the pond's end, Wyman, the potter, who furnished his townsmen with
earthenware,—the squatter.[453]

Now only a dent in the earth marks the site of most of these human
dwellings; sometimes the well-dent where a spring oozed, now dry and
tearless grass, or covered deep,—not to be discovered till late days by
accident,—with a flat stone under the sod. These dents, like deserted
fox-burrows, old holes, where once was the stir and bustle of human life
overhead, and man's destiny, "fate, free-will, foreknowledge absolute,"
were all by turns discussed.

Still grows the vivacious lilac for a generation after the last vestige
else is gone, unfolding still its early sweet-scented blossoms in the
spring, to be plucked only by the musing traveller; planted, tended,
weeded [?], watered by children's hands in front-yard plot,—now by
wall-side in retired pasture, or giving place to a new rising forest.
The last of that stirp, sole survivor of that family. Little did
the dark children think that that weak slip with its two eyes which
they watered would root itself so, and outlive them, and house in
the rear that shaded it, and grown man's garden and field, and tell
their story to the retired wanderer a half-century after they were no
more,—blossoming as fair, smelling as sweet, as in that first spring.
Its still cheerful, tender, civil lilac colors.[454]

The woodland road, though once more dark and shut in by the forest,
resounded with the laugh and gossip of inhabitants, and was notched
and dotted here and there with their little dwellings. Though now but
a humble rapid passage to neighboring villages or for the woodman's
team, it once delayed the traveller longer, and was a lesser village in
itself.[455]

You still hear from time to time the whinnering of the raccoon, still
living as of old in hollow trees, washing its food before it eats it.
The red fox barks at night. The loon comes in the fall to sail and
bathe in the pond, making the woods ring with its wild laughter in the
early morning, at rumor of whose arrival all Concord sportsmen are
on the alert, in gigs, on foot, two by two, three [by three], with
patent rifles, patches, conical balls, spy-glass or open hole over
the barrel. They seem already to hear the loon laugh; come rustling
through the woods like October leaves, these on this side, those on
that, for the poor loon cannot be omnipresent; if he dive here, must
come up somewhere. The October wind rises, rustling the leaves, ruffling
the pond water, so that no loon can be seen rippling the surface. Our
sportsmen scour, sweep the pond with spy-glass in vain, making the
woods ring with rude [?] charges of powder, for the loon went off in
that morning rain with one loud, long, hearty laugh, and our sportsmen
must beat a retreat to town and stable and daily routine, shop work,
unfinished jobs again.[456]

Or in the gray dawn the sleeper hears the long ducking gun explode over
toward Goose Pond, and, hastening to the door, sees the remnant of
a flock, black duck or teal, go whistling by with outstretched neck,
with broken ranks, but in ranger order. And the silent hunter emerges
into the carriage road with ruffled feathers at his belt, from the dark
pond-side where he has lain in his bower since the stars went out.

And for a week you hear the circling clamor, clangor, of some solitary
goose through the fog, seeking its mate, peopling the woods with a
larger life than they can hold.[457]

For hours in fall days you shall watch the ducks cunningly tack and
veer and hold the middle of the pond, far from the sportsman on the
shore,—tricks they have learned and practiced in far Canada lakes or in
Louisiana bayous.[458]

The waves rise and dash, taking sides with all waterfowl.[459]

       *       *       *       *       *

Then in dark winter mornings, in short winter afternoons, the pack
of hounds, threading all woods with hounding cry and yelp, unable to
resist the instinct of the chase, and note of hunting-horn at intervals,
showing that man too is in the rear. And the woods ring again, and yet
no fox bursts forth on to the open level of the pond, and no following
pack after their Actæon.[460]

       *       *       *       *       *

But this small village, germ of something more, why did it fail while
Concord grows apace? No natural advantages, no water privilege, only
the deep Walden Pond and cool Brister's Spring,—privileges to drink
long, healthy, pure draughts, alas, all unimproved by those men but
to dilute their glass. Might not the basket-making, stable-broom,
mat-making, corn-parching, potters' business have thrived here, making
the wilderness to blossom as the rose? Now, all too late for commerce,
this waste, depopulated district has its railroad too. And transmitted
the names of unborn Bristers, Catos, Hildas,[461] Zilphas to a remote
and grateful posterity.

Again Nature will try, with me for a first settler, and my house raised
last spring to be the oldest in the settlement.

The sterile soil would have been proof against any lowland
degeneracy.[462]

Farmers far and near call it the paradise of beans.

And here, too, on winter days, while yet is cold January, and snow and
ice lie thick, comes the prudent, foreseeing landlord or housekeeper
(anticipating thirst) from the village, to get ice to cool his summer
drink,—a grateful beverage if he should live, if time should endure so
long. How few so wise, so industrious, to lay up treasures which neither
rust nor melt, "to cool their summer drink" one day!

And cut off the solid pond, the element and air of fishes, held fast
with chain and stake like corded wood, all through favoring, willing,
kind, permitting winter air to wintery cellar, to underlie the summer
there. And cut and saw the cream of the pond, unroof the house of
fishes.[463]

And in early mornings come men with fishing-reels and slender lunch, men
of real faith, and let down their fine lines and live minnows through
the snowy field to hook the pickerel and perch.[464]

       *       *       *       *       *

With buried well-stones, and strawberries, raspberries, thimble-berries
growing on the sunny sward there; some pitchy pine or gnarled oak in
the chimney-nook, or the sweet-scented black birch where the doorstone
was.[465]

Breed's,—history must not yet tell the tragedies enacted there. Let time
intervene to assuage and lend an azure atmospheric tint to them.[466]

       *       *       *       *       *

There is something pathetic in the sedentary life of men who have
travelled. They must naturally die when they leave the road.

What seems so fair and poetic in antiquity—almost fabulous—is realized,
too, in Concord life. As poets and historians brought their work to the
Grecian games, and genius wrestled there as well as strength of body, so
have we seen works of kindred genius read at our Concord games, by their
author, in their own Concord amphitheatre. It is virtually repeated by
all ages and nations.[467]

       *       *       *       *       *

Moles nesting in your cellar and nibbling every third potato.[468]
A whole rabbit-warren only separated from you by the flooring.
To be saluted when you stir in the dawn by the hasty departure
of Monsieur,—thump, thump, thump, striking his head against the
floor-timbers.[469] Squirrels and field mice that hold to a community
of property in your stock of chestnuts.

The blue jays suffered few chestnuts to reach the ground, resorting to
your single tree in flocks in the early morning, and picking them out
of the burs at a great advantage.

The crop of blackberries small; berries not yet grown. Ground-nuts not
dug.

       *       *       *       *       *

One wonders how so much, after all, was expressed in the old way, so
much here depends upon the emphasis, tone, pronunciation, style, and
spirit of the reading. No writer uses so profusely all the aids to
intelligibility which the printer's art affords. You wonder how others
had contrived to write so many pages without emphatic, italicized words,
they are so expressive, so natural and indispensable, here. As if none
had ever used the demonstrative pronoun demonstratively. In another's
sentences the thought, though immortal, is, as it were, embalmed and
does not _strike_ you, but here it is so freshly living, not purified
by the ordeal of death, that it stirs in the very extremities, the
smallest particles and pronouns are all alive with it.—You must not
say it, but _it_. It is not simple it, your it or mine, but _it_. His
books are solid, workmanlike, like all that England does. They tell
of endless labor done, well done, and all the rubbish swept away, like
this bright cutlery which glitters in the windows, while the coke and
ashes, turnings, filings, borings, dust lie far away at Birmingham,
unheard of. The words did not come at the command of grammar but of a
tyrannous, inexorable meaning; not like the standing soldiers, by vote
of Parliament, but any able-bodied countryman pressed into the service.
It is no China war, but a revolution. This style is worth attending
to as one of the most important features of the man that we at this
distance know.[470]

       *       *       *       *       *

What are the men of New England about? I have travelled some in New
England, especially in Concord, and I found that no enterprise was on
foot which it would not disgrace a man to take part in. They seemed to
be employed everywhere in shops and offices and fields. They seemed,
like the Brahmins of the East, to be doing penance in a thousand
curious, unheard-of ways, their endurance surpassing anything I had ever
seen or heard of,—Simeon Stylites, Brahmins looking in the face of the
sun, standing on one leg, dwelling at the roots of trees, nothing to
it; any of the twelve labors of Hercules to be matched,—the Nemean lion,
Lernæan hydra, Œnœan stag, Erymanthian boar, Augean stables, Stymphalian
birds, Cretan bull, Diomedes' mares, Amazonian girdle, monster Geryon,
Hesperian apples, three-headed Cerberus, nothing at all in comparison,
being only twelve and having an end. For I could never see that these
men ever slew or captured any of their monsters, or finished any of
their labors. They have no "friend Iolaus to burn, with a hot iron,
the root" of the hydra's head; for as soon as one head is crushed, two
spring up.[471]

Men labor under a mistake; they are laying up treasures which moth and
rust will corrupt and thieves break through and steal. Northern Slavery,
or the slavery which includes the Southern, Eastern, Western, and all
others.[472]

It is hard to have a Southern overseer; it is worse to have a Northern
one; but worst of all when you are yourself the slave-driver. Look at
the lonely teamster on the highway, wending to market by day or night;
is he a son of the morning, with somewhat of divinity in him, fearless
because immortal, going to receive his birthright, greeting the sun as
his fellow, bounding with youthful, gigantic strength over his mother
earth? See how he cowers and sneaks, how vaguely, indefinitely all the
day he fears, not being immortal, not divine, the slave and prisoner of
his own opinion of himself, fame which he has earned by his own deeds.
Public opinion is a weak tyrant compared with private opinion. What I
think of myself, that determines my fate.[473]

I see young men, my equals, who have inherited from their spiritual
father a soul,—broad, fertile, uncultivated,—from their earthly father
a farm,—with cattle and barns and farming tools, the implements of the
picklock and the counterfeiter. Better if they had been born in the
open pasture and suckled by a wolf, or perhaps cradled in a manger, that
they might have seen with clear eye what was the field they were called
to labor in. The young man has got to live a man's life, then, in this
world, pushing all these things before him, and get on as well as he
can. How many a poor immortal soul I have met, well-nigh crushed and
smothered, creeping slowly down the road of life, pushing before it a
barn seventy-five by forty feet and one hundred acres of land,—tillage,
pasture, wood-lot! This dull, opaque garment of the flesh is load enough
for the strongest spirit, but with such an earthly garment superadded
the spiritual life is soon plowed into the soil for compost. It's a
fool's life, as they will all find when they get to the end of it. The
man that goes on accumulating property when the bare necessaries of life
are cared for is a fool and knows better.[474]

There is a stronger desire to be respectable to one's neighbors than to
one's self.

However, such distinctions as poet, philosopher, literary man, etc., do
not much assist our final estimate. We do not lay much stress on them;
"a man's a man for a' that." Any writer who interests us much is all
and more than these.

It is not simple dictionary it.[475]

Talent at making books solid, workmanlike, graceful, which may be
read.[476]

Some idyllic chapter or chapters are needed.

In the French Revolution are Mirabeau, king of men; Danton, Titan of
the Revolution; Camille Desmoulins, poetic editor; Roland, heroic woman;
Dumouriez, first efficient general: on the other side, Marat, friend of
the people; Robespierre; Tinville, infernal judge; St. Just; etc., etc.

       *       *       *       *       *

Nutting and Le Gros by the wall-side. The Stratten house and barn where
the orchard covered all the slope of Brister's Hill,—now killed out by
the pines.

Brister Freeman, a handy negro, slave once of Squire Cummings (?), and
Fenda, his hospitable, pleasant wife, large, round, black, who told
fortunes, blacker than all the children of night, such a dusky orb as
had never risen on Concord before.

Zilpha's little house where "she was spinning linen," making the
Walden woods ring with her shrill singing,—a loud, shrill, remarkable
voice,—when once she was away to town, set on fire by English soldiers
on parole, in the last war, and cat and dog and hens all burned up.
Boiling her witch's dinner, and heard muttering to herself over the
gurgling pot by silent traveller, "Ye are all bones, bones."

And Cato, the Guinea negro,—his house and little patch among the
walnuts,—who let the trees grow up till he should be old, and Richardson
got them.

Where Breed's house stood tradition says a tavern once stood, the well
the same, and all a swamp between the woods and town, and road made on
logs.[477]

       *       *       *       *       *

Bread I made pretty well for awhile, while I remembered the rules; for
I studied this out methodically, going clear back to the primitive days
and first invention of the unleavened kind, and coming gradually down
through that lucky accidental souring of the dough which taught men the
leavening process, and all the various fermentations thereafter, till
you get to "good, sweet, wholesome bread," the staff of life. I went
on very well, mixing rye and flour and Indian and potato with success,
till one morning I had forgotten the rules, and thereafter scalded the
yeast,—killed it out,—and so, after the lapse of a month, was glad after
all to learn that such palatable staff of life could be made out of the
dead and scalt creature and risings that lay flat.

I have hardly met with the housewife who has gone so far with this
mystery. For all the farmers' wives pause at yeast. Given this and they
can make bread. It is the axiom of the argument. What it is, where it
came from, in what era bestowed on man, is wrapped in mystery. It is
preserved religiously, like the vestal fire, and its virtue is not yet
run out. Some precious bottleful, first brought over in the Mayflower,
did the business for America, and its influence is still rising,
swelling, spreading like Atlantic billows over the land,—the soul of
bread, the spiritus, occupying its cellular tissue.[478]

       *       *       *       *       *

The way to compare men is to compare their respective ideals. The actual
man is too complex to deal with.

Carlyle is an earnest, honest, heroic worker as literary man and
sympathizing brother of his race.

Idealize a man, and your notion takes distinctness at once.

Carlyle's talent is perhaps quite equal to his genius.[479]

Striving [?] to live in reality,—not a general critic, philosopher, or
poet.

Wordsworth, with very feeble talent, has not so great and admirable as
unquestionable and persevering genius.

Heroism, heroism is his word,—his thing.

He would realize a brave and adequate human life, and die hopefully at
last.

       *       *       *       *       *

Emerson again is a critic, poet, philosopher, with talent not so
conspicuous, not so adequate to his task; but his field is still higher,
his task more arduous. Lives a far more intense life; seeks to realize
a divine life; his affections and intellect equally developed. Has
advanced farther, and a new heaven opens to him. Love and Friendship,
Religion, Poetry, the Holy are familiar to him. The life of an Artist;
more variegated, more observing, finer perception; not so robust,
elastic; practical enough in his own field; faithful, a judge of men.
There is no such general critic of men and things, no such trustworthy
and faithful man. More of the divine realized in him than in any. A
poetic critic, reserving the unqualified nouns for the gods.

       *       *       *       *       *

Alcott is a geometer, a visionary, the Laplace of ethics, more
intellect, less of the affections, sight beyond talents, a substratum of
practical skill and knowledge unquestionable, but overlaid and concealed
by a faith in the unseen and impracticable. Seeks to realize an entire
life; a catholic observer; habitually takes in the farthest star and
nebula into his scheme. Will be the last man to be disappointed as the
ages revolve. His attitude is one of greater faith and expectation
than that of any man I know; with little to show; with undue share,
for a philosopher, of the weaknesses of humanity. The most hospitable
intellect, embracing high and low. For children how much that means,
for the insane and vagabond, for the poet and scholar![480]

       *       *       *       *       *

Emerson has special talents unequalled. The divine in man has had no
more easy, methodically distinct expression. His personal influence upon
young persons greater than any man's. In his world every man would be
a poet, Love would reign, Beauty would take place, Man and Nature would
harmonize.

       *       *       *       *       *

When Alcott's day comes, laws unsuspected by most will take effect,[481]
the system will crystallize according to them, all seals and falsehood
will slough off, everything will be in its place.


_Feb. 22_ [no year]. Jean Lapin sat at my door to-day, three paces from
me, at first trembling with fear, yet unwilling to move; a poor, wee
thing, lean and bony, with ragged ears and sharp nose, scant tail and
slender paws. It looked as if nature no longer contained the breed of
nobler bloods, the earth stood on its last legs. Is nature, too, unsound
at last? I took two steps, and lo, away he scud with elastic spring
over the snowy crust into the bushes, a free creature of the forest,
still wild and fleet; and such then was his nature, and his motion
asserted its vigor and dignity. Its large eye looked at first young
and diseased, almost dropsical, unhealthy. But it bound[ed] free, the
venison, straightening its body and its limbs into graceful length, and
soon put the forest between me and itself.[482]

       *       *       *       *       *

Emerson does not consider things in respect to their essential utility,
but an important partial and relative one, as works of art perhaps. His
probes pass one side of their centre of gravity. His exaggeration is of
a part, not of the whole.

       *       *       *       *       *

How many an afternoon has been stolen from more profitable, if not
more attractive, industry,—afternoons when a good run of custom might
have been expected on the main street, such as tempt the ladies out
a-shopping,—spent, I say, by me away in the meadows, in the well-nigh
hopeless attempt to set the river on fire or be set on fire by it, with
such tinder as I had, with such flint as I was. Trying at least to make
it flow with milk and honey, as I had heard of, or liquid gold, and
drown myself without getting wet,—a laudable enterprise, though I have
not much to show for it.

So many autumn days spent outside the town, trying to hear what was
in the wind, to hear it and carry it express. I well-nigh sunk all
my capital in it, and lost my own breath into the bargain, by running
in the face of it. Depend upon it, if it had concerned either of the
parties, it would have appeared in the yeoman's gazette, the _Freeman_,
with other earliest intelligence.

For many years I was self-appointed inspector of snow-storms and
rain-storms, and did my duty faithfully, though I never received one
cent for it.

Surveyor, if not of higher ways, then of forest paths and all across-lot
routes, keeping many open ravines bridged and passable at all seasons,
where the public heel had testified to the importance of the same,
all not only without charge, but even at considerable risk and
inconvenience. Many a mower would have forborne to complain had he been
aware of the invisible public good that was in jeopardy.

So I went on, I may say without boasting, I trust, faithfully minding my
business without a partner, till it became more and more evident that my
townsmen would not, after all, admit me into the list of town officers,
nor make the place a sinecure with moderate allowance.

I have looked after the wild stock of the town, which pastures in
common, and every one knows that these cattle give you a good deal of
trouble in the way of leaping fences. I have counted and registered
all the eggs I could find at least, and have had an eye to all nooks
and corners of the farm, though I didn't always know whether Jonas
or Solomon worked in a particular field to-day; that was none of my
business. I only knew him for one of the men, and trusted that he was as
well employed as I was. I had to make my daily entries in the general
farm book, and my duties may sometimes have made me a little stubborn
and unyielding.

Many a day spent on the hilltops waiting for the sky to fall, that
I might catch something, though I never caught much, only a little,
manna-wise, that would dissolve again in the sun.

My accounts, indeed, which I can swear to have been faithfully kept,
I have never got audited, still less accepted, still less paid and
settled. However, I haven't set my heart upon _that_.

I have watered the red huckleberry and the sand cherry and the hoopwood
[?] tree, and the cornel and spoonhunt and yellow violet, which might
have withered else in dry seasons. The white grape.

To find the bottom of Walden Pond, and what inlet and outlet it might
have.

       *       *       *       *       *

I found at length that, as they were not likely to offer me any office
in the court-house, any curacy or living anywhere else, I must shift
for myself, I must furnish myself with the necessaries of life.

Now watching from the observatory of the Cliffs or Annursnack to
telegraph any new arrival, to see if Wachusett, Watatic, or Monadnock
had got any nearer. Climbing trees for the same purpose. I have
been reporter for many years to one of the journals of no very wide
circulation, and, as is too common, got only my pains for my labor.
Literary contracts are little binding.[483]

The unlimited anxiety, strain, and care of some persons is one very
incurable form of disease. Simple arithmetic might have corrected it;
for the life of every man has, after all, an epic integrity, and Nature
adapts herself to our weaknesses and deficiencies as well as talents.

No doubt it is indispensable that we should do _our_ work between sun
and sun, but only a wise man will know what that is. And yet how much
work will be left undone, put off to the next day, and yet the system
goes on!

We presume commonly to take care of ourselves, and trust as little as
possible. Vigilant more or less all our days, we say our prayers at
night and commit ourselves to uncertainties, as if in our very days
and most vigilant moments the great part were not a necessary trust
still.[484] How serenity, anxiety, confidence, fear paint the heavens
for us.

All the laws of nature will bend and adapt themselves to the least
motion of man.

All change is a miracle to contemplate, but it is a miracle which is
taking place unobserved every instant; when all is ready it takes place,
and only a miracle could stay it.

We [are] compelled to live so thoroughly and sincerely, reflecting on
our steps, reverencing our life, that we never make allowance for the
possible changes.

We may waive just so much care of ourselves as we devote of care
elsewhere.[485]




IX

1837-1847

(ÆT. 20-30)

[This chapter consists of paragraphs (chiefly undated) taken from a
large commonplace-book containing transcripts from earlier journals.
Thoreau drew largely from this book in writing the "Week," and to a less
extent in writing "Walden." Passages used in these volumes (as far as
noted), and those duplicating earlier journal entries already printed
in the preceding pages, have been omitted. All the matter in the book
appears to have been written before 1847.]


     I was born upon thy bank, river,
     My blood flows in thy stream,
     And thou meanderest forever
     At the bottom of my dream.

This great but silent traveller which had been so long moving past my
door at three miles an hour,—might I not trust myself under its escort?

       *       *       *       *       *

In friendship we worship moral beauty without the formality of religion.

       *       *       *       *       *

Consider how much the sun and the summer, the buds of spring and the
sered leaves of autumn, are related to the cabins of the settlers which
we discover on the shore,—how all the rays which paint the landscape
radiate from them. The flight of the crow and the gyrations of the hawk
have reference to their roofs.

       *       *       *       *       *

Friends do not interchange their common wealth, but each puts his
finger into the private coffer of the other. They will be most familiar,
they will be most unfamiliar, for they will be so one and single that
common themes will not have to be bandied between them, but in silence
they will digest them as one mind; but they will at the same time be
so two and double that each will be to the other as admirable and as
inaccessible as a star. He will view him as it were through "optic
glass,"—"at evening from the top of Fesolé." And after the longest
earthly period, he will still be in apogee to him.

       *       *       *       *       *

It [the boat] had been loaded at the door the evening before, half a
mile from the river, and provided with wheels against emergencies, but,
with the bulky cargo which we stevedores had stowed in it, it proved
but an indifferent land carriage. For water and water-casks there was
a plentiful supply of muskmelons from our patch, which had just begun
to be ripe, and chests and spare spars and sails and tent and guns and
munitions for the galleon. And as we pushed it through the meadows to
the river's bank, we stepped as lightly about it as if a portion of
our own bulk and burden was stored in its hold. We were amazed to find
ourselves outside still, with scarcely independent force enough to push
or pull effectually.

The robin is seen flying directly and high in the air at this season,
especially over rivers, where in the morning they are constantly passing
and repassing in company with the blackbird.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have never insisted enough on the nakedness and simplicity of
friendship, the result of all emotions, their subsidence, a fruit of the
temperate zone. The friend is an unrelated man, solitary and of distinct
outline.

       *       *       *       *       *

Must not our whole lives go unexplained, without regard to us,
notwithstanding a few flourishes of ours, which themselves need
explanation?

       *       *       *       *       *

Yet a friend does not afford us cheap contrasts or encounters. He
forbears to ask explanations, but doubts and surmises with full
faith, as we silently ponder our fates. He is vested with full powers,
plenipotentiary, all in all.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Plato gives science sublime counsels, directs her toward the regions
of the ideal; Aristotle gives her positive and severe laws, and directs
her toward a practical end."—DEGERANDO.

       *       *       *       *       *

All day the dark blue outline of Crotched mountain in Goffstown skirted
the horizon. We took pleasure in beholding its outline, because at this
distance our vision could so easily grasp the design of the founder. It
was a pretty victory to conquer the distance and dimensions so easily
with our eyes, which it would take our feet so long to traverse.

       *       *       *       *       *

Notwithstanding the unexplained mystery of nature, man still pursues
his studies with confidence, ever ready to grasp the secret, as if the
truth were only contained, not withheld; as one of the three circles on
the cocoanut is always so soft that it may be pierced with a thorn, and
the traveller is grateful for the thick shell which held the liquor so
faithfully.

       *       *       *       *       *

Gracefulness is undulatory like these waves, and perhaps the sailor
acquires a superior suppleness and grace through the planks of his ship
from the element on which he lives.

       *       *       *       *       *

The song sparrow, whose voice is one of the first heard in the spring,
sings occasionally throughout the season, from a greater depth in the
summer, as it were behind the notes of other birds.

       *       *       *       *       *

As the temperature and density of the atmosphere, so the aspects of our
life vary.

In this bright and chaste light the world seemed like a pavilion made
for holidays and washed in light. The ocean was a summer's lake, and
the land a smooth lawn for disport, while in the horizon the sunshine
seemed to fall on walled towns and villas, and the course of our lives
was seen winding on like a country road over the plain.[486]

       *       *       *       *       *

When we looked out from under our tent, the trees were seen dimly
through the mist, and a cool dew hung upon the grass, and in the damp
air we seemed to inhale a solid fragrance.

       *       *       *       *       *

Communicating with the villas and hills and forests on either hand,
by the glances we sent them, or the echoes we awakened. We glanced up
many a pleasant ravine with its farmhouse in the distance, where some
contributory stream came in; again the site of a sawmill and a few
forsaken eel-pots were all that greeted us.[487]

       *       *       *       *       *

While we sail here we can remember unreservedly those friends who dwell
far away on the banks and by the sources of this very river, and people
this world for us, without any harsh and unfriendly interruptions.

       *       *       *       *       *

At noon his horn[488] is heard echoing from shore to shore to give
notice of his approach to the farmer's wife with whom he is to take
his dinner, frequently in such retired scenes that only muskrats and
kingfishers seem to hear.

       *       *       *       *       *

If ever our idea of a friend is realized it will be in some broad and
generous natural person, as frank as the daylight, in whose presence
our behavior will be as simple and unconstrained as the wanderer amid
the recesses of these hills.

       *       *       *       *       *

I who sail now in a boat, have I not sailed in a thought? _Vide_
Chaucer.

       *       *       *       *       *

The hardest material obeys the same law with the most fluid. Trees
are but rivers of sap and woody fibre flowing from the atmosphere and
emptying into the earth by their trunks, as their roots flow upward
to the surface. And in the heavens there are rivers of stars and milky
ways. There are rivers of rock on the surface and rivers of ore in the
bowels of the earth. And thoughts flow and circulate, and seasons lapse
as tributaries of the current year.

       *       *       *       *       *

Consider the phenomena of morn, or eve, and you will say that Nature
has perfected herself by an eternity of practice,—evening stealing over
the fields, the stars coming to bathe in retired waters, the shadows of
the trees creeping farther and farther into the meadows, and a myriad
phenomena beside.

       *       *       *       *       *

Occasionally we had to muster all our energy to get round a point
where the river broke rippling over rocks and the maples trailed their
branches in the stream.

       *       *       *       *       *

The future reader of history will associate this generation with the
red man in his thoughts, and give it credit for some sympathy with
that race. Our history will have some copper tints and reflections, at
least, and be read as through an Indian-summer haze; but such were not
our associations. But the Indian is absolutely forgotten but by some
persevering poets.

The white man has commenced a new era. What do our anniversaries
commemorate but white men's exploits? For Indian deeds there must be
an Indian memory; the white man will remember his own only. We have
forgotten their hostility as well as friendship. Who can realize that,
within the memory of this generation, the remnant of an ancient and
dusky race of mortals called the Stockbridge Indians, within the limits
of this very State, furnished a company for the war, on condition only
that they should not be expected to fight white man's fashion, or to
train, but Indian fashion. And occasionally their wigwams are seen on
the banks of this very stream still, solitary and inobvious, like the
cabins of the muskrats in the meadows.

They seem like a race who have exhausted the secrets of nature, tanned
with age, while this young and still fair Saxon slip, on whom the sun
has not long shone, is but commencing its career.

       *       *       *       *       *

Their memory is in harmony with the russet hue of the fall of the
year.[489]

For the Indian there is no safety but in the plow. If he would not be
pushed into the Pacific, he must seize hold of a plow-tail and let go
his bow and arrow, his fish-spear and rifle. This the only Christianity
that will save him.[490]

His fate says sternly to him, "Forsake the hunter's life and enter into
the agricultural, the second, state of man. Root yourselves a little
deeper in the soil, if you would continue to be the occupants of the
country." But I confess I have no little sympathy with the Indians and
hunter men. They seem to me a distinct and equally respectable people,
born to wander and to hunt, and not to be inoculated with the twilight
civilization of the white man.

Father Le Jeune, a French missionary, affirmed "that the Indians were
superior in intellect to the French peasantry of that time," and advised
"that laborers should be sent from France in order to work for the
Indians."

The Indian population within the present boundaries of New Hampshire,
Massachusetts, Rhode Island, and Connecticut has been estimated not to
have exceeded 40,000 "before the epidemic disease which preceded the
landing of the Pilgrims," and it was far more dense here than elsewhere;
yet they had no more land than they wanted. The present white population
is more than 1,500,000 and two thirds of the land is unimproved.

The Indian, perchance, has not made up his mind to some things which the
white man has consented to; he has not, in all respects, stooped so low;
and hence, though he too loves food and warmth, he draws his tattered
blanket about him and follows his fathers, rather than barter his
birthright. He dies, and no doubt his Genius judges well for him. But
he is not worsted in the fight; he is not destroyed. He only migrates
beyond the Pacific to more spacious and happier hunting-grounds.

A race of hunters can never withstand the inroads of a race of
husbandmen. The latter burrow in the night into their country and
undermine them; and [even] if the hunter is brave enough to resist,
his game is timid and has already fled. The rifle alone would never
exterminate it, but the plow is a more fatal weapon; it wins the country
inch by inch and holds all it gets.

What detained the Cherokees so long was the 2923 plows which that
people possessed; and if they had grasped their handles more firmly,
they would never have been driven beyond the Mississippi. No sense of
justice will ever restrain the farmer from plowing up the land which
is only hunted over by his neighbors. No hunting-field was ever well
fenced and surveyed and its bounds accurately marked, unless it were an
English park. It is a property not held by the hunter so much as by the
game which roams it, and was never well secured by warranty deeds. The
farmer in his treaties says only, or means only, "So far will I plow
this summer," for he has not seed corn enough to plant more; but every
summer the seed is grown which plants a new strip of the forest.

The African will survive, for he is docile, and is patiently learning
his trade and dancing at his labor; but the Indian does not often dance,
unless it be the war dance.

       *       *       *       *       *

In whatever moment we awake to life, as now I this evening, after
walking along the bank and hearing the same evening sounds that were
heard of yore, it seems to have slumbered just below the surface, as in
the spring the new verdure which covers the fields has never retreated
far from the winter.

All actions and objects and events lose their _distinct_ importance in
this hour, in the brightness of the vision, as, when sometimes the pure
light that attends the setting sun falls on the trees and houses, the
light itself is the phenomenon, and no single object is so distinct to
our admiration as the light itself.

       *       *       *       *       *

If criticism is liable to abuse, it has yet a great and humane apology.
When my sentiments aspire to be universal, then my neighbor has an equal
interest to see that the expression be just, with myself.

     My friends, why should we live?
       Life is an idle war, a toilsome peace;
     To-day I would not give
       One small consent for its securest ease.

     Shall we outwear the year
       In our pavilions on its dusty plain,
     And yet no signal hear
       To strike our tents and take the road again?

     Or else drag up the slope
       The heavy ordnance of religion's train?
     Useless, but in the hope
       Some far remote and heavenward hill to gain.

       *       *       *       *       *

The tortoises rapidly dropped into the water, as our boat ruffled the
surface amid the willows. We glided along through the transparent water,
breaking the reflections of the trees.

       *       *       *       *       *

Not only are we late to find our friends, but mankind are late, and
there is no record of a great success in history.

       *       *       *       *       *

My friend is not chiefly wise or beautiful or noble. At least it is not
for me to know it. He has no visible form nor appreciable character. I
can never praise him nor esteem him praiseworthy, for I should sunder
him from myself and put a bar between us. Let him not think he can
please me by any behavior or even treat me well enough. When he treats,
I retreat.[491]

       *       *       *       *       *

I know of no rule which holds so true as that we are always paid
for our suspicion by finding what we suspect. There can be no fairer
recompense than this. Our suspicions exercise a demoniacal power over
the subject of them. By some obscure law of influence, when we are
perhaps unconsciously the subject of another's suspicion, we feel a
strong impulse, even when it is contrary to our nature, to do that which
he expects but reprobates.

       *       *       *       *       *

No man seems to be aware that his influence is the result of his entire
character, both that which is subject and that which is superior to
his understanding, and what he really means or intends it is not in his
power to explain or offer an apology for.

       *       *       *       *       *

No man was ever party to a secure and settled friendship. It is no
more a constant phenomenon than meteors and lightning. It is a war of
positions, of silent tactics.

       *       *       *       *       *

     I mark the summer's swift decline;
     The springing sward its grave-clothes weaves.[492]

     Oh, could I catch the sounds remote!
     Could I but tell to human ear
     The strains which on the breezes float
     And sing the requiem of the dying year!

       *       *       *       *       *

_Sept. 29, 1842._ To-day the lark sings again down in the meadow, and
the robin peeps, and the bluebirds, old and young, have revisited their
box, as if they would fain repeat the summer without the intervention
of winter, if Nature would let them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Beauty is a finer utility whose end we do not see.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Oct. 7, 1842._ A little girl has just brought me a purple finch or
American linnet. These birds are now moving south. It reminds me of the
pine and spruce, and the juniper and cedar on whose berries it feeds.
It has the crimson hues of the October evenings, and its plumage still
shines as if it had caught and preserved some of their tints (beams?).
We know it chiefly as a traveller. It reminds me of many things I had
forgotten. Many a serene evening lies snugly packed under its wing.

Gower writes like a man of common sense and good parts who has
undertaken with steady, rather than high, purpose to do narrative with
rhyme. With little or no invention, following in the track of the old
fablers, he employs his leisure and his pen-craft to entertain his
readers and speak a good word for the right. He has no fire, or rather
blaze, though occasionally some brand's end peeps out from the ashes,
especially if you approach the heap in a dark day, and if you extend
your hands over it you experience a slight warmth there more than
elsewhere. In fair weather you may see a slight smoke go up here and
there. He narrates what Chaucer sometimes sings. He tells his story with
a fair understanding of the original, and sometimes it gains a little
in blunt plainness and in point in his hands. Unlike the early Saxon
and later English, his poetry is but a plainer and directer speech than
other men's prose. He might have been a teamster and written his rhymes
on his wagon-seat as he went to mill with a load of plaster.

       *       *       *       *       *

The banks by retired roadsides are covered with asters, hazels, brakes,
and huckleberry bushes, emitting a dry, ripe scent.[493]

       *       *       *       *       *

Facts must be learned directly and personally, but principles may be
deduced from information. The collector of facts possesses a perfect
physical organization, the philosopher a perfect intellectual one. One
can walk, the other sit; one acts, the other thinks. But the poet in
some degree does both, and uses and generalizes the results of both; he
generalizes the widest deductions of philosophy.[494]

       *       *       *       *       *

_Oct. 21, 1842._ The atmosphere is so dry and transparent and, as it
were, inflammable at this season that a candle in the grass shines
white and dazzling, and purer and brighter the farther off it is. Its
heat seems to have been extracted and only its harmless refulgent light
left. It is a star dropped down. The ancients were more than poetically
true when they called fire Vulcan's flower. Light is somewhat almost
moral. The most intense—as the fixed stars and our own sun—has an
unquestionable preëminence among the elements. At a certain stage in the
generation of all life, no doubt, light as well as heat is developed.
It guides to the first rudiments of life. There is a vitality in heat
and light.

       *       *       *       *       *

Men who are felt rather than understood are being most rapidly
developed. They stand many deep.

       *       *       *       *       *

In many parts the Merrimack is as wild and natural as ever, and the
shore and surrounding scenery exhibit only the revolutions of nature.
The pine stands up erect on its brink, and the alders and willows fringe
its edge; only the beaver and the red man have departed.

       *       *       *       *       *

My friend knows me face to face, but many only venture to meet me under
the shield of another's authority, backed by an invisible _corps du
réserve_ of wise friends and relations. To such I say, "Farewell, we
cannot dwell alone in the world."

       *       *       *       *       *

Sometimes, by a pleasing, sad wisdom, we find ourselves carried beyond
all counsel and sympathy. Our friends' words do not reach us.

       *       *       *       *       *

The truly noble and settled character of a man is not put forward, as
the king or conqueror does not march foremost in a procession.

       *       *       *       *       *

Among others I have picked up a curious spherical stone, probably
an implement of war, like a small paving-stone about the size of a
goose egg, with a groove worn quite round it, by which it was probably
fastened to a thong or a withe and answered to strike a severe blow like
a shotted colt. I have since seen larger ones of the same description.

These arrowheads are of every color and of various forms and materials,
though commonly made of a stone which has a conchoidal fracture. Many
small ones are found, of white quartz, which are mere equilateral
triangles, with one side slightly convex. These were probably small shot
for birds and squirrels. The chips which were made in their manufacture
are also found in large numbers wherever a lodge stood for any length
of time. And these slivers are the surest indication of Indian ground,
since the geologists tell us that this stone is not to be found in this
vicinity.

The spear-heads are of the same form and material only larger.

Some are found as perfect and sharp as ever, for time has not the effect
of blunting them, but when they break they have a ragged and cutting
edge. Yet they are so brittle that they can hardly be carried in the
pocket without being broken.

It is a matter of wonder how the Indians made even those rude implements
without iron or steel tools to work with. It is doubtful whether one of
our mechanics, with all the aids of Yankee ingenuity, could soon learn
to copy one of the thousands under our feet. It is well known the art of
making flints with a cold chisel, as practiced in Austria, requires long
practice and knack in the operator, but the arrowhead is of much more
irregular form, and, like the flint, such is the nature of the stone,
must be struck out by a succession of skillful blows.

An Indian to whom I once exhibited some, but to whom they were objects
of as much curiosity as [to] myself, suggested that, as white men
have but one blacksmith, so Indians had one arrowhead-maker for many
families. But there are the marks of too many forges—unless they were
like travelling cobblers—to allow of this.

I have seen some arrowheads from the South Seas which were precisely
similar to those from here, so necessary, so little whimsical is this
little tool.

So has the steel hatchet its prototype in the stone one of the Indian,
as the stone hatchet in the necessities of man.

Venerable are these ancient arts, whose early history is lost in that
of the race itself.

Here, too, is the pestle and mortar,—ancient forms and symbols older
than the plow or the spade.

The invention of that plow which now turns them up to the surface marks
the era of their burial. An era which can never have its history, which
is older than history itself. These are relics of an era older than
modern civilization, compared with which Greece and Rome and Egypt are
modern. And still the savage retreats and the white man advances.

I have the following account of some relics in my possession which
were brought from Taunton [?] in Bristol County. A field which had been
planted with corn for many years. The sod being broken, the wind began
to blow away the soil and then the sand, for several years, until at
length it was blown away to the depth of several feet, where it ceased,
and the ground appeared strewed with the remains of an Indian village,
with regular circles of stones which formed the foundation of their
wigwams, and numerous implements beside.

       *       *       *       *       *

Commonly we use life sparingly, we husband it as if it were scarce,
and admit the right of prudence; but occasionally we see how ample and
inexhaustible is the stock from which we so scantily draw, and learn
that we need not be prudent, that we may be prodigal, and all expenses
will be met.

       *       *       *       *       *

Am I not as far from those scenes, though I have wandered a different
route, as my companion who has finished the voyage of life? Am I not
most dead who have not life to die, and cast off my sere leaves?

       *       *       *       *       *

It seemed the only right way to enter this country, borne on the bosom
of the flood which receives the tribute of its innumerable vales. The
river was the only key adequate to unlock its maze. We beheld the hills
and valleys, the lakes and streams, in their natural order and position.

       *       *       *       *       *

A state should be a complete epitome of the earth, a natural
principality, and by the gradations of its surface and soil conduct
the traveller to its principal marts. Nature is stronger than law, and
the sure but slow influence of wind and water will balk the efforts of
restricting legislatures. Man cannot set up bounds with safety but where
the revolutions of nature will confirm and strengthen, not obliterate,
them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Every man's success is in proportion to his _average_ ability. The
meadow flowers spring and bloom where the waters annually deposit
their slime, not where they reach in some freshet only. We seem to do
ourselves little credit in our own eyes for our performance, which all
know must ever fall short of our aspiration and promise, which only we
can know entirely; as a stick will avail to reach further than it will
strike effectually, since its greatest momentum is a little short of
its extreme end. But we do not disappoint our neighbors. A man is not
his hope nor his despair, nor his past deed.[495]

       *       *       *       *       *

But it is in the order of destiny that whatever is remote shall be
near. Whatever the eyes see, the hands shall touch. The sentinels upon
the turret and at the window and on the wall behold successively the
approaching traveller whom the host will soon welcome in the hall.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is not to be forgotten that the poet is innocent; but he is
young, he is not yet a parent or a brother to his race. There are
a thousand degrees of grace and beauty before absolute humanity and
disinterestedness.

The meanest man can easily test the noblest. Is he embraced? Does he
find him a brother?

       *       *       *       *       *

I am sometimes made aware of a kindness which may have long since been
shown, which surely memory cannot retain, which reflects its light long
after its heat. I realize, my friend, that there have been times when
thy thoughts of me have been of such lofty kindness that they passed
over me like the winds of heaven unnoticed, so pure that they presented
no object to my eyes, so generous and universal that I did not detect
them. Thou hast loved me for what I was not, but for what I aspired to
be. We shudder to think of the kindness of our friend which has fallen
on us cold, though in some true but tardy hour we have awakened. There
has just reached me the kindness of some acts, not to be forgotten,
not to be remembered. I wipe off these scores at midnight, at rare
intervals, in moments of insight and gratitude.

     Far o'er the bow,
       Amid the drowsy noon,
     Souhegan, creeping slow,
       Appeareth soon.[496]

     Methinks that by a strict behavior
     I could elicit back the brightest star
     That hides behind a cloud.

     I have rolled near some other spirit's path,
     And with a pleased anxiety have felt
     Its purer influence on my opaque mass,
     But always was I doomed to learn, alas!
     I had scarce changèd its sidereal time.

Gray sedulously cultivated poetry, but the plant would not thrive. His
life seems to have needed some more sincere and ruder experience.

       *       *       *       *       *

Occasionally we rowed near enough to a cottage to see the sunflowers
before the door, and the seed-vessels of the poppy, like small goblets
filled with the waters of Lethe, but without disturbing the sluggish
household.

Driving the small sandpiper before us.


FOG[497]

     Thou drifting meadow of the air,
     Where bloom the daisied banks and violets,
     And in whose fenny labyrinths
     The bittern booms and curlew peeps,
     The heron wades and boding rain-crow clucks;
     Low-anchored cloud,
     Newfoundland air,
     Fountain-head and source of rivers,
     Ocean branch that flowest to the sun,
     Diluvian spirit, or Deucalion shroud,
     Dew-cloth, dream drapery,
     And napkin spread by fays,
     Spirit of lakes and seas and rivers,
     Sea-fowl that with the east wind
     Seek'st the shore, groping thy way inland,
     By whichever name I please to call thee,
     Bear only perfumes and the scent
     Of healing herbs to just men's fields.

I am amused with the manner in which Quarles and his contemporary poets
speak of Nature,—with a sort of gallantry, as a knight of his lady,—not
as lovers, but as having a thorough respect for her and some title to
her acquaintance. They speak manfully, and their lips are not closed by
affection.

     "The pale-faced lady of the black-eyed night."

Nature seems to have held her court then, and all authors were
her gentlemen and esquires and had ready an abundance of courtly
expressions.

Quarles is never weak or shallow, though coarse and untasteful. He
presses able-bodied and strong-backed words into his service, which
have a certain rustic fragrance and force, as if now first devoted
to literature after having served sincere and stern uses. He has the
pronunciation of a poet though he stutters. He certainly speaks the
English tongue with a right manly accent. To be sure his poems have
the[498] musty odor of a confessional.

     How little curious is man,
     Who hath not searched his mystery a span,
     But dreams of mines of treasure
     Which he neglects to measure,
     For threescore years and ten
     Walks to and fro amid his fellow men
     O'er this small tract of continental land,
     His fancy bearing no divining wand.
     Our uninquiring corpses lie more low
     Than our life's curiosity doth go;
     Our most ambitious steps climb not so high
     As in their hourly sport the sparrows fly.
     Yonder cloud's blown farther in a day
     Than our most vagrant feet may ever stray.
     Surely, O Lord, he hath not greatly erred
     Who hath so little from his birthplace stirred.
     He wanders through this low and shallow world,
     Scarcely his bolder thoughts and hopes unfurled,
     Through this low wallèd world, which his huge sin
     Hath hardly room to rest and harbor in.
     Bearing his head just o'er some fallow ground,
     Some cowslip'd meadows where the bitterns sound,
     He wanders round until his end draws nigh,
     And then lays down his aged head to die.
     And this is life! this is that famous strife!
     His head doth court a fathom from the land,
     Six feet from where his grovelling feet do stand.

What is called talking is a remarkable though I believe universal
phenomenon of human society. The most constant phenomenon when men or
women come together is talking. A chemist might try this experiment in
his laboratory with certainty, and set down the fact in his journal.
This characteristic of the race may be considered as established. No
doubt every one can call to mind numerous conclusive instances. Some
nations, it is true, are said to articulate more distinctly than others;
yet the rule holds with those who have the fewest letters in their
alphabet. Men cannot stay long together without talking, according
to the rules of polite society. (As all men have two ears and but one
tongue, they must spend the extra and unavoidable hours of silence in
listening to the whisperings of genius, and this fact it is that makes
silence always respectable in my eyes.) Not that they have anything to
communicate, or do anything quite natural or important to be done so,
but by common consent they fall to using the invention of speech, and
make a conversation, good or bad. They say things, first this one and
then that. They express their "opinions," as they are called.

By a well-directed silence I have sometimes seen threatening and
troublesome people routed. You sit musing as if you were in broad
nature again. They cannot stand it. Their position becomes more and more
uncomfortable every moment. So much humanity over against one without
any disguise,—not even the disguise of speech! They cannot stand it nor
sit against it.

Not only must men talk, but for the most part must talk about talk,—even
about books, or dead and buried talk. Sometimes my friend expects a
few periods from me. Is he exorbitant? He thinks it is my turn now.
Sometimes my companion thinks he has said a good thing, but I don't see
the difference. He looks just as he did before. Well, it is no loss. I
suppose he has plenty more.

Then I have seen very near and intimate, very old friends introduced
by very old strangers, with liberty given to talk. The stranger, who
knows only the countersign, says, "Jonas—Eldred," giving those names
which will make a title good in a court of law. (It may be presumed
that God does not know the Christian names of men.) Then Jonas, like
a ready soldier, makes a remark,—a benediction on the weather it may
be,—and Eldred swiftly responds, and unburdens his breast, and so the
action begins. They bless God and nature many times gratuitously, and
part mutually well pleased, leaving their cards. They did not happen to
be present at each other's christening.

Sometimes I have listened so attentively and with so much interest
to the whole expression of a man that I did not hear one word he was
saying, and saying too with the more vivacity observing my attention.

But a man may be an object of interest to me though his tongue is pulled
out by the roots.

       *       *       *       *       *

Men sometimes do as if they could eject themselves like bits of
pack-thread from the end of the tongue.

       *       *       *       *       *

Scholars have for the most part a diseased way of looking at the world.
They mean by it a few cities and unfortunate assemblies of men and
women, who might all be concealed in the grass of the prairies. They
describe this world as old or new, healthy or diseased, according to the
state of their libraries,—a little dust more or less on their shelves.
When I go abroad from under this shingle or slate roof, I find several
things which they have not considered. Their conclusions seem imperfect.

       *       *       *       *       *

As with two eyes we see and with two ears we hear, with the like
advantage is man added to man. Making no complaint, offering no
encouragement, one human being is made aware of the neighboring
and contemporaneous existence of another. Such is the tenderness of
friendship. We never recognize each other as finite and imperfect
beings, but with a smile and as strangers. My intercourse with men is
governed by the same laws with my intercourse with nature.

       *       *       *       *       *

Buonaparte said that the three-o'clock-in-the-morning courage was the
rarest, but I cannot agree with him.[499] Fear does not awake so early.
Few men are so degenerate as to balk nature by not beginning the day
well.

       *       *       *       *       *

I hold in my hands a recent volume of essays and poems, in its outward
aspect like the thousands which the press sends forth, and, if the gods
permitted their own inspiration to be breathed in vain, this might be
forgotten in the mass, but the accents of truth are as sure to be heard
on earth as in heaven. The more I read it the more I am impressed by its
sincerity, its depth and grandeur. It already seems ancient and has lost
the traces of its modern birth. It is an evidence of many virtues in the
writer. More serenely and humbly confident, this man has listened to the
inspiration which all may hear, and with greater fidelity reported it.
It is therefore a true prophecy, and shall at length come to pass. It
has the grandeur of the Greek tragedy, or rather its Hebrew original,
yet it is not necessarily referred to any form of faith. The slumbering,
heavy depth of its sentences is perhaps without recent parallel. It
lies like the sward in its native pasture, where its roots are never
disturbed, and not spread over a sandy embankment.

     On fields o'er which the reaper's hand has passed,
     Lit by the harvest moon and autumn sun,
     My thoughts like stubble floating in the wind
     And of such fineness as October airs,
     There, after harvest, could I glean my life,
     A richer harvest reaping without toil,
     And weaving gorgeous fancies at my will,
     In subtler webs than finest summer haze.

In October the air is really the fine element the poets describe.[500]
The fields emit a dry and temperate odor. There is something in the
refined and elastic air which reminds us of a work of art. It is like
a verse of Anacreon or a tragedy of Æschylus.

       *       *       *       *       *

All parts of nature belong to one head, as the curls of a maiden's hair.
How beautifully flow the seasons as one year, and all streams as one
ocean!

       *       *       *       *       *

I hate museums; there is nothing so weighs upon my spirits. They are the
catacombs of nature. One green bud of spring, one willow catkin, one
faint trill from a migrating sparrow would set the world on its legs
again. The life that is in a single green weed is of more worth than
all this death. They are dead nature collected by dead men. I know not
whether I muse most at the bodies stuffed with cotton and sawdust or
those stuffed with bowels and fleshy fibre outside the cases.

Where is the proper herbarium, the true cabinet of shells, and museum of
skeletons, but in the meadow where the flower bloomed, by the seaside
where the tide cast up the fish, and on the hills and in the valleys
where the beast laid down its life and the skeleton of the traveller
reposes on the grass? What right have mortals to parade these things on
their legs again, with their wires, and, when heaven has decreed that
they shall return to dust again, to return them to sawdust? Would you
have a dried specimen of a world, or a pickled one?

Embalming is a sin against heaven and earth,—against heaven, who has
recalled the soul and set free the servile elements, and against the
earth, which is thus robbed of her dust. I have had my right-perceiving
senses so disturbed in these haunts as to mistake a veritable living
man for a stuffed specimen, and surveyed him with dumb wonder as the
strangest of the whole collection. For the strangest is that which,
being in many particulars most like, is in some essential particular
most unlike.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is one great and rare merit in the old English tragedy that it says
something. The words slide away very fast, but toward some conclusion.
It has to do with things, and the reader feels as if he were advancing.
It does not make much odds what message the author has to deliver at
this distance of time, since no message can startle us, but how he
delivers it,—that it be done in a downright and manly way. They come to
the point and do not waste the time.

       *       *       *       *       *

They say that Carew was a laborious writer, but his poems do not show
it. They are finished, but do not show the marks of the chisel. Drummond
was indeed a quiddler, with little fire or fibre, and rather a taste
_for_ poetry than a taste _of_ it.

       *       *       *       *       *

After all, we draw on very gradually in English literature to
Shakespeare, through Peele and Marlowe, to say nothing of Raleigh and
Spenser and Sidney. We hear the same great tone already sounding to
which Shakespeare added a serener wisdom and clearer expression. Its
chief characteristics of reality and unaffected manliness are there.
The more we read of the literature of those times, the more does
acquaintance divest the genius of Shakespeare of the in some measure
false mystery which has thickened around it, and leave it shrouded in
the grander mystery of daylight. His critics have for the most part made
their [_sic_] contemporaries less that they might make Shakespeare more.

The distinguished men of those times had a great flow of spirits, a
cheerful and elastic wit far removed from the solemn wisdom of later
days. What another thing was fame and a name then than now! This is seen
in the familiar manner in which they were spoken of by each other and
the nation at large,—_Kit_ Marlowe, and _George_ (Peele), and _Will_
Shakespeare, and _Ben_ Jonson,—great _fellows_,—_chaps_.

       *       *       *       *       *

We pass through all degrees of life from the least organic to the most
complex. Sometimes we are mere pudding-stone and scoriæ.

       *       *       *       *       *

The present is the instant work and near process of living, and will be
found in the last analysis to be nothing more nor less than digestion.
Sometimes, it is true, it is indigestion.

       *       *       *       *       *

Daniel deserves praise for his moderation, and sometimes has risen
into poetry before you know it. Strong sense appears in his epistles,
but you have to remember too often in what age he wrote, and yet that
Shakespeare was his contemporary. His style is without the tricks of
the trade and really in advance of his age. We can well believe that he
was a retired scholar, who would keep himself shut up in his house two
whole months together.

       *       *       *       *       *

Donne was not a poet, but a man of strong sense, a sturdy English
thinker, full of conceits and whimsicalities, hammering away at his
subject, be it eulogy or epitaph, sonnet or satire, with the patience
of a day laborer, without taste but with an occasional fine distinction
or poetic phrase. He was rather _Doctor_ Donne, than the _poet_ Donne.
His letters are perhaps best.

       *       *       *       *       *

Lovelace is what his name expresses,—of slight material to make a poet's
fame. His goings and comings are of no great account. His taste is not
so much love of excellence as fear of failure, though in one instance
he has written fearlessly and memorably.

       *       *       *       *       *

How wholesome are the natural laws to contemplate, as gravity, heat,
light, moisture, dryness. Only let us not interfere. Let the soul
withdraw into the chambers of the heart, let the mind reside steadily
in the labyrinth of the brain, and not interfere with hands or feet more
than with other parts of nature.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thomson was a true lover of nature and seems to have needed only a
deeper human experience to have taken a more vigorous and lofty flight.
He is deservedly popular, and has found a place on many shelves and in
many cottages. There are great merits in "The Seasons"—and the almanac.
In "Autumn:"—

                       "Attemper'd suns arise,

       *       *       *       *       *

     ... while broad and brown, below,
     Extensive harvests hang the heavy head.
     Rich, silent, deep, they stand."

The moon in "Autumn:"—

                       "Her spotted disk,
     Where mountains rise, umbrageous dales descend,

       *       *       *       *       *

               ... gives all his blaze again,
     Void of its flame, and sheds a softer day.
     Now through the passing cloud she seems to stoop,
     Now up the pure cerulean rides sublime.

       *       *       *       *       *

     The whole air whitens with a boundless tide
     Of silver radiance, trembling round the world."

My friend, thou art not of some other race and family of men;—thou art
flesh of my flesh, bone of my bone. Has not nature associated us in
many ways?[501] Water from the same fountain, lime from the same quarry,
grain from the same field compose our bodies. And perchance our elements
but reassert their ancient kindredship. Is it of no significance that
I have so long partaken of the same loaf with thee, have breathed the
same air summer and winter, have felt the same heat and cold, the same
fruits of summer have been pleased to refresh us both, and thou hast
never had a thought of different fibre from my own?[502]

Our kindred, of one blood with us. With the favor and not the
displeasure of the gods, we have partaken the same bread.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is hard to know rocks. They are crude and inaccessible to our nature.
We have not enough of the stony element in us.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is hard to know men by rumor only. But to stand near somewhat living
and conscious. Who would not sail through mutiny and storm farther than
Columbus, to reach the fabulous retreating shores of some continent man?

       *       *       *       *       *

My friend can only be in any measure my foe, because he is fundamentally
my friend; for everything is after all more nearly what it should
rightfully be, than that which it is simply by failing to be the other.

       *       *       *       *       *

It [friendship] cannot be the subject of reconciliation or the theme of
conversation ever between friends. The true friend must in some sense
disregard all professions of friendship and forget them.

       *       *       *       *       *

It is as far from pity as from contempt. I should hesitate even to call
it the highest sympathy, since the word is of suspicious origin and
suggests suffering rather than joy. It was established before religion,
for men are not friends in religion, but over and through it; and it
records no apostasy or repentance, but there is a certain divine and
innocent and perennial health about it.

       *       *       *       *       *

Its charity is generosity, its virtue nobleness, its religion trust. We
come nearer to friendship with flowers and inanimate objects than with
merely affectionate and loving men. It is not for the friend to be just
even,—at least he is not to be lost in this attribute,—but to be only
a large and free existence, representative of humanity, its general
court. Admirable to us as the heavenly bodies, but like them affording
rather a summer heat and daylight,—the light and fire of sunshine and
stars,—rather than the intense heats and splendors which our weakness
and appetite require.

       *       *       *       *       *

Yesterday I skated after a fox over the ice. Occasionally he sat on his
haunches and barked at me like a young wolf. It made me think of the
bear and her cubs mentioned by Captain Parry, I think. All brutes seem
to have a genius for mystery, an Oriental aptitude for symbols and the
language of signs; and this is the origin of Pilpay and Æsop. The fox
manifested an almost human suspicion of mystery in my actions. While
I skated directly after him, he cantered at the top of his speed; but
when I stood still, though his fear was not abated, some strange but
inflexible law of his nature caused him to stop also, and sit again on
his haunches. While I still stood motionless, he would go slowly a rod
to one side, then sit and bark, then a rod to the other side, and sit
and bark again, but did not retreat, as if spellbound. When, however, I
commenced the pursuit again, he found himself released from his durance.

Plainly the fox belongs to a different order of things from that which
reigns in the village. Our courts, though they offer a bounty for his
hide, and our pulpits, though they draw many a moral from his cunning,
are in few senses contemporary with his free forest life.

       *       *       *       *       *

To the poet considered as an artist, his words must be as the relation
of his oldest and finest memory, and wisdom derived from the remotest
experience.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have thought, when walking in the woods through a certain retired
dell, bordered with shrub oaks and pines, far from the village and
affording a glimpse only through an opening of the mountains in the
horizon, how my life might pass there, simple and true and natural, and
how many things would be impossible to be done there. How many books I
might not read!

       *       *       *       *       *

Why avoid my friends and live among strangers? Why not reside in my
native country?

       *       *       *       *       *

Many a book is written which does not necessarily suggest or imply the
phenomenon or object to explain which it professes to have been written.

       *       *       *       *       *

Every child should be encouraged to study not man's system of nature
but nature's.

       *       *       *       *       *

Giles Fletcher knew how to write, and has left English verses behind.
He is the most valuable imitator of the Spenserian stanza, and adds a
moral tone of his own.


TO A MARSH HAWK IN SPRING

     There is health in thy gray wing,
     Health of nature's furnishing.
     Say, thou modern-winged antique,
     Was thy mistress ever sick?


     In each heaving of thy wing
     Thou dost health and leisure bring,
     Thou dost waive disease and pain
     And resume new life again.

     Man walks in nature still alone,
       And knows no one,
     Discovers no lineament nor feature
       Of any creature.

     Though all the firmament
       Is o'er me bent,
     Yet still I miss the grace
       Of an intelligent and kindred face.

     I still must seek the friend
     Who does with nature blend.
     Who is the person in her mask,
     He is the friend I ask;

     Who is the expression of her meaning,
     Who is the uprightness of her leaning,
     Who is the grown child of her weaning.

     We twain would walk together
       Through every weather,
     And see this aged Nature
       Go with a bending stature.

     The centre of this world,
     The face of Nature,
     The site of human life,
     Some sure foundation
     And nucleus of a nation,
     At least, a private station.

It is the saddest thought of all, that what we are to others, that we
are much more to ourselves,—avaricious, mean, irascible, affected,—we
are the victims of these faults. If our pride offends our humble
neighbor, much more does it offend ourselves, though our lives are never
so private and solitary.

       *       *       *       *       *

If the Indian is somewhat of a stranger in nature, the gardener is too
much a familiar. There is something vulgar and foul in the latter's
closeness to his mistress, something noble and cleanly in the former's
distance. Yet the hunter seems to have a property in the moon which
even the farmer has not. Ah! the poet knows uses of plants which are
not easily reported, though he cultivates no parterre. See how the sun
smiles on him while he walks in the gardener's aisles, rather than on
the gardener.

       *       *       *       *       *

Not only has the foreground of a picture its glass of transparent
crystal spread over it, but the picture itself is a glass or transparent
medium to a remoter background. We demand only of all pictures that they
be perspicuous, that the laws of perspective have been truly observed.
It is not the fringed foreground of the desert nor the intermediate
oases that detain the eye and the imagination, but the infinite, level,
and roomy horizon, where the sky meets the sand, and heavens and earth,
the ideal and actual, are coincident, the background into which leads
the path of the pilgrim.

       *       *       *       *       *

All things are in revolution; it is the one law of nature by which order
is preserved, and time itself lapses and is measured. Yet some things
men will do from age to age, and some things they will not do.


"Fisherman's Acct. for 1805[503] Began March 25

                                                                   cts.
           Dd Mr. Saml Potter 2 qts W I 3/ 1 lb sugar 10d         $0.64
               One Cod line 5/                                       84
     April 8   Qt W I 1/6 & 1 lb Sugar 10d & Brown Mug               48
           9   Qt N E rum 1/ 10th Do. of Do 1/                       33
          13   Qt N E rum & 1 lb Sugar 15th 2 Qts N E rum 2/        62
          17   Qt W I 1/6 Do N E 1/ lb Sugar 9d & Qt N E Rum         71
          22   Qt N E rum 1/ lb sugar 9d & Qt N E rum 1/             44½
          23   Qt N E rum 1/ Do of Do & sugar 5d                     39
          24   Qt N E rum 1/ lb sugar 9d                             28½
          29   Qt N E rum 1/ & lb sugar 9d—30th Rum 1/               44½
     May first Qt rum ½ lb Sugar 1/5d                                22
               Qt N E rum 1/ & ½ lb Loaf Sugar 9d                    29
           4   Qt rum 1/ Sugar 5d                                    22
           6   Qt N E rum 1/ & lb good sugar 11d                     31
           7   Qt N E rum 1/8th Qt N E rum 1/ & ½ lb Sugar 5d        40
          11   Qt N E rum 11d lb Sugar 10d                           29
          15   Qt rum & lb Sugar 1/9 & Qt N E rum                    44
          16   To a Line for the Sceene 3/                         0.50
          20   To Qt N E rum 11d lb Sugar 10d                      0.29
          21   To Qt N E rum 11d & lb Sugar 10d                    0.29
          27   To Qt W I 1/6 & lb Sugar 10d                        0.39
     June 5th  1805 Settled this acct by Recev.g Cash in Full     $8.82½

How many young finny contemporaries of various character and destiny,
form and habits, we have even in this water! And it will not be
forgotten by some memory that we _were_ contemporaries. It is of _some_
import. We shall be some time friends, I trust, and know each other
better. Distrust is too prevalent now. We are so much alike! have so
many faculties in common! I have not yet met with the philosopher who
could, in a quite conclusive, undoubtful way, show me _the_, and, if
not _the_, then how _any_, difference between man and a fish. We are so
much alike! How much could a really tolerant, patient, humane, and truly
great and natural man make of them, if he should try? For they are to
be understood, surely, as all things else, by no other method than that
of sympathy. It is easy to say what they are not to us, _i. e._, what
we are not to them; but what we might and ought to be is another affair.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the tributaries the brook minnow and the trout. Even in the rills
emptying into the river, over which you stride at a step, you may see
small trout not so large as your finger glide past or hide under the
bank.

       *       *       *       *       *

The character of this [the horned pout], as indeed of all fishes,
depends directly upon that of the water it inhabits, those taken in
clear and sandy water being of brighter hue and cleaner and of firmer
and sweeter flesh. It makes a peculiar squeaking noise when drawn out,
which has given it the name of the minister or preacher.

       *       *       *       *       *

The bream is the familiar and homely sparrow, which makes her nest
everywhere, and is early and late.

The pickerel is the hawk, a fish of prey, hovering over the finny broods.

The pout is the owl, which steals so noiselessly about at evening with
its clumsy body.

The shiner is the summer yellowbird, or goldfinch, of the river.

The sucker is the sluggish bittern, or stake-driver.

The minnow is the hummingbird.

The trout is the partridge woodpecker.

The perch is the robin.[504]

       *       *       *       *       *

We read Marlowe as so much poetical pabulum. It is food for poets, water
from the Castalian Spring, some of the atmosphere of Parnassus, raw and
crude indeed, and at times breezy, but pure and bracing. Few have so
rich a phrase! He had drunk deep of the Pierian Spring, though not deep
enough, and had that fine madness, as Drayton says,

     "Which justly should possess a poet's brain."

We read his "Dr. Faustus," "Dido, Queen of Carthage," and "Hero and
Leander," especially the last, without being wearied. He had many of
the qualities of a great poet, and was in some degree worthy to precede
Shakespeare. But he seems to have run to waste for want of seclusion
and solitude, as if mere pause and deliberation would have added a new
element of greatness to his poetry. In his unquestionably fine, heroic
tone it would seem as if he had the rarest part of genius, and education
could have added the rest. The "Hero and Leander" tells better for his
character than the anecdotes which survive.

     I fain would stretch me by the highway-side,
       To thaw and trickle with the melting snow,
     That mingled soul and body with the tide
       I too might through the pores of Nature flow,[505]

     Might help to forward the new spring along,
       If it were mine to choose my toil or day,
     Scouring the roads with yonder sluice-way throng,
       And so work out my tax on _Her_ highway.

       *       *       *       *       *

     Yet let us thank the purblind race
       Who still have thought it good
     With lasting stone to mark the place
       Where braver men have stood.

     In Concord, town of quiet name
       And quiet fame as well, ...

       *       *       *       *       *

     I've seen ye, sisters, on the mountain-side,
     When your green mantles fluttered in the wind;
     I've seen your footprints on the lake's smooth shore,
     Lesser than man's, a more ethereal trace;
     I have heard of ye as some far-famed race,
     Daughters of gods, whom I should one day meet,
     Or mothers, I might say, of all our race.
     I reverence your natures, so like mine
     Yet strangely different, like but still unlike.
     Thou only stranger that hast crossed my path,
     Accept my hospitality; let me hear
     The message which thou bring'st.
         Made different from me,
       Perchance thou'rt made to be
       The creature of a different destiny.
     I know not who ye are that meekly stand
     Thus side by side with man in every land.
     When did ye form alliance with our race,
     Ye children of the moon, who in mild nights
     Vaulted upon the hills and sought this earth?
     Reveal that which I fear ye cannot tell,
     Wherein ye are not I, wherein ye dwell
     Where I can never come.
     What boots it that I do regard ye so?
     Does it make suns to shine or crops to grow?
     What boots [it] that I never should forget
     That I have sisters sitting for me yet?
     And what are sisters?
     The robust man, who can so stoutly strive,
     In this bleak world is hardly kept alive.
     And who is it protects _ye_, smooths _your_ way?

We can afford to lend a willing ear occasionally to those earnest
reformers of the age. Let us treat them hospitably. Shall we be
charitable only to the poor? What though they are fanatics? Their errors
are likely to be generous errors, and these may be they who will put to
rest the American Church and the American government, and awaken better
ones in their stead.

Let us not meanly seek to maintain our delicate lives in chambers or in
legislative halls by a timid watchfulness of the rude mobs that threaten
to pull down our baby-houses. Let us not think to raise a revenue
which shall maintain our domestic quiet by an impost on the liberty
of speech. Let us not think to live by the principle of self-defense.
Have we survived our accidents hitherto, think you, by virtue of our
good swords,—that three-foot lath that dangles by your side, or those
brazen-mouthed pieces under the burying hill which the trainers keep
to hurrah with in the April and July mornings? Do our protectors burrow
under the burying-ground hill, on the edge of the bean-field which you
all know, gorging themselves once a year with powder and smoke, and kept
bright and in condition by a chafing of oiled rags and rotten stone?
Have we resigned the protection of our hearts and civil liberties to
that feathered race of wading birds and marching men who drill but
once a month?—and I mean no reproach to our Concord train-bands, who
certainly make a handsome appearance—and dance well. Do we enjoy the
sweets of domestic life undisturbed, because the naughty boys are all
shut up in that whitewashed "stone-yard," as it is called, and see the
Concord meadows only through a grating.

No, let us live amid the free play of the elements. Let the dogs bark,
let the cocks crow, and the sun shine, and the winds blow!

     Ye do commend me to all virtue ever,
     And simple truth, the law by which we live.
     Methinks that I can trust your clearer sense
     And your immediate knowledge of the truth.
     I would obey your influence, one with fate.

There is a true march to the sentence, as if a man or a body of men were
actually making progress there step by step, and these are not the mere
_disjecta membra_, the dispersed and mutilated members though it were of
heroes, which can no longer walk and join themselves to their comrades.
They are not perfect nor liberated pieces of art for the galleries, yet
they stand on the natural and broad pedestal of the living rock, but
have a principle of life and growth in them still, as has that human
nature from which they spring.[506]

       *       *       *       *       *

It is a marvel how the birds contrive to survive in this world. These
tender sparrows that flit from bush to bush this evening, though it is
so late, do not seem improvident, [but appear] to have found a roost for
the night. They must succeed by weakness and reliance, for they are not
bold and enterprising, as their mode of life would seem to require, but
very weak and tender creatures. I have seen a little chipping sparrow,
come too early in the spring, shivering on an apple twig, drawing in
its head and striving to warm it in its muffled feathers; and it had no
voice to intercede with nature, but peeped as helpless as an infant,
and was ready to yield up its spirit and die without any effort. And
yet this was no new spring in the revolution of the seasons.

       *       *       *       *       *

Our offense is rank, it smells to heaven. In the midst of our village,
as in most villages, there is a slaughterhouse, and throughout the
summer months, day and night, to the distance of half a mile, which
embraces the greater part of the village, the air [is] filled with such
scents as we instinctively avoid in a woodland walk; and doubtless, if
our senses were once purified and educated by a simpler and truer life,
we should not consent to live in such a neighborhood.

       *       *       *       *       *

George Melvin, our Concord trapper, told me that in going to the spring
near his house, where he kept his minnows for bait, he found that they
were all gone, and immediately suspected that a mink had got them;
so he removed the snow all around and laid open the trail of a mink
underneath, which he traced to his hole, where were the fragments of his
booty. There he set his trap, and baited it with fresh minnows. Going
again soon to the spot, he found one of the mink's fore legs in the trap
gnawed off near the body, and, having set it again, he caught the mink
with his three legs, the fourth having only a short bare bone sticking
out.

When I expressed some surprise at this, and said that I heard of such
things but did not know whether to believe them, and was now glad to
have the story confirmed, said he: "Oh, the muskrats are the greatest
fellows to gnaw their legs off. Why I caught one once that had just
gnawed his third leg off, this being the third time he had been
trapped; and he lay dead by the trap, for he couldn't run on one leg."
Such tragedies are enacted even in this sphere and along our peaceful
streams, and dignify at least the hunter's trade. Only courage does
anywhere prolong life, whether of man or beast.

When they are caught by the leg and cannot get into the water to drown
themselves, they very frequently gnaw the limb off. They are commonly
caught under water or close to the edge, and dive immediately with the
trap and go to gnawing and are quackled and drowned in a moment, though
under other circumstances they will live several minutes under water.
They prefer to gnaw off a fore leg to a hind leg, and do not gnaw off
their tails. He says the wharf rats are very common on the river and
will swim and cross it like a muskrat, and will gnaw their legs and even
their tails off in the trap.

These would be times that tried men's souls, if men had souls to be
tried; aye, and the souls of brutes, for they must have souls as well
as teeth. Even the water-rats lead sleepless nights and live Achillean
lives. There are the strong will and the endeavor. Man, even the hunter,
naturally has sympathy with every brave effort, even in his game, to
maintain that life it enjoys. The hunter regards with awe his game, and
it becomes at last his medicine.[507]

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Cadew or Case worms there are the Ruff-coats or Cockspurs, whose
cases are rough and made of various materials, and the Piper Cadis or
Straw-worm, made of reed or rush, and straight and smooth.

       *       *       *       *       *

Carlyle's works are not to be studied,—hardly re-read. Their first
impression is the truest and the deepest. There is no reprint. If you
look again, you will be disappointed and find nothing answering to the
mood they have excited. They are true natural products in this respect.
All things are but once, and never repeated. The first faint blushes
of the morning gilding the mountain-tops, with the pale phosphorus
and saffron-colored clouds,—they verily transport us to the morning of
creation; but what avails it to travel eastward, or look again there an
hour hence. We should be as far in the day ourselves, mounting toward
our meridian. There is no _double entendre_ for the alert reader; in
fact the work was designed for such complete success that it serves
but for a single occasion. It is the luxury of wealth and art when for
every deed its own instrument is manufactured. The knife which sliced
the bread of Jove ceased to be a knife when that service was rendered.

       *       *       *       *       *

For every inferior, earthly pleasure we forego, a superior, celestial
one is substituted.

To purify our lives requires simply to weed out what is foul and noxious
and the sound and innocent is supplied, as nature purifies the blood if
we will but reject impurities.

Nature and human life are as various to our several experiences as
our constitutions are various. Who shall say what prospect life offers
to another? Could a greater miracle take place than if we should look
through each other's eyes for an instant? We should live in all the ages
of the world in an hour,—aye, in all the worlds of the ages. What I have
read of rhapsodists, of the primitive poets, Argonautic expeditions,
the life of demigods and heroes, Eleusinian mysteries, etc., suggests
nothing so ineffably grand and informing as this would be.

       *       *       *       *       *

The phœbe came into my house to find a place for its nest, flying
through the windows.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was a bright thought, that of man's to have bells; no doubt the birds
hear them with pleasure.

       *       *       *       *       *

To compete with the squirrels in the chestnut harvest, picking ofttimes
the nuts that bear the mark of their teeth.

       *       *       *       *       *

I require of any lecturer that he will read me a more or less simple and
sincere account of his own life, of what he has done and thought,—not
so much what he has read or heard of other men's lives and actions,
but some such account as he would send to his kindred from a distant
land,—and if he has lived sincerely, it must have been in a distant land
to me,—describing even his outward circumstances and what adventures
he has had, as well as his thoughts and feelings about them. He who
gives us only the results of other men's lives, though with brilliant
temporary success, we may in some measure justly accuse of having
defrauded us of our time. We want him to give us that which was most
precious to him,—not his life's blood but even that for which his life's
blood circulated, what he has got by living. If anything ever yielded
him pure pleasure or instruction, let him communicate it. Let the
money-getter tell us how much he loves wealth, and what means he takes
to accumulate it. He must describe those facts which he knows and loves
better than anybody else. He must not write on foreign missions. The
mechanic will naturally lecture about his trade, the farmer about his
farm, and every man about that which he, compared with other men, knows
best. Yet incredible mistakes are made. I have heard an owl lecture with
perverse show of learning upon the solar microscope, and chanticleer
upon nebulous stars, when both ought to have been sound asleep, the one
in a hollow tree, the other on his roost.

After I lectured here before, this winter, I heard that some of my
townsmen had expected of me some account of my life at the pond. This
I will endeavor to give to-night.

       *       *       *       *       *

I know a robust and hearty mother who thinks that her son, who died
abroad, came to his end by living too low, as she had since learned
that he drank only water. Men are not inclined to leave off hanging
men to-day, though they will be to-morrow. I heard of a family in
Concord this winter which would have starved, if it had not been for
potatoes—and tea and coffee.

It has not been my design to live cheaply, but only to live as I could,
not devoting much time to getting a living. I made the most of what
means were already got.

       *       *       *       *       *

To determine the character of our life and how adequate it is to its
occasion, just try it by any test, as for instance that this same sun is
seen in Europe and in America at the same time, that these same stars
are visible in twenty-four hours to two thirds the inhabitants of the
globe, and who knows how many and various inhabitants of the universe.
What farmer in his field lives according even to this somewhat trivial
material fact.

I just looked up at a fine twinkling star and thought that a voyager
whom I know, now many days' sail from this coast, might possibly be
looking up at that same star with me. The stars are the apexes of what
triangles! There is always the possibility—the possibility, I say—of
being _all_, or remaining a particle, in the universe.

       *       *       *       *       *

In these days and in this country, a few implements, as the axe, shovel,
etc., and, to the studious, light and stationery and access to a few
books, will rank next to necessaries, but can all be obtained at a very
trifling cost. Under the head of clothing is to be ranked bedding, or
night-clothes.

We are very anxious to keep the animal heat in us. What pains we take
with our beds! robbing the nests of birds and their breasts, this
shelter within a shelter, as the mole has a bed of leaves and grass at
the end of its burrow.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the summer I caught fish occasionally in the pond, but since
September have not missed them.

       *       *       *       *       *

In a man or his work, over all special excellence or failure, prevails
the general authority or value.

       *       *       *       *       *

Almost any man knows how to earn money, but not one in a million knows
how to spend it. If he had known so much as this, he would never have
earned it.

       *       *       *       *       *

All matter, indeed, is capable of entertaining thought.

       *       *       *       *       *

The complete subjugation of the body to the mind prophesies the
sovereignty of the latter over the whole of nature. The instincts are
to a certain extent a sort of independent nobility, of equal date with
the mind, or crown,—ancient dukes and princes of the regal blood. They
are perhaps the mind of our ancestors subsided in us, the experience of
the race.

A small sum would really do much good, if the donor spent himself
with it and did not merely relinquish it to some distant society whose
managers do the good or the evil with it. How much might be done for
this town with a hundred dollars! I could provide a select course of
lectures for the summer or winter with that sum, which would be an
incalculable benefit to every inhabitant. With a thousand dollars
I could purchase for this town a more complete and select library
than exists in the State out of Cambridge and Boston, perhaps a more
available one than any. Men sit palsied and helpless by the side of
their buried treasures.[508]

After all those who do most good with money, do it with the least,
because they can do better than to acquire it.


_March 13, 1846._ The song sparrow and blackbird heard to-day. The snow
going off. The ice in the pond one foot thick.

       *       *       *       *       *

Men talk much of coöperation nowadays, of working together to some
worthy end; but what little coöperation there is, is as if it were
not, being a simple result of which the means are hidden, a harmony
inaudible to men. If a man has faith, he will coöperate with equal faith
everywhere. If he has not faith he will continue to live like the rest
of the world, whatever company he is joined to. To coöperate thoroughly
implies to get your living together. I heard it proposed lately that
two young men should travel together over the world, the one earning his
means as he went, the other carrying a bill of exchange in his pocket.
It was easy to see that they could not long be companions, or coöperate,
since one would not operate at all. They would part company at the first
and most interesting crisis in their adventures.




THE HISTORY OF THE APPLE-TREE.

It is remarkable how closely the history of the Apple-tree is connected
with that of man. The geologist tells us that the order of the
Rosaceae, which includes the Apple, also the true Grasses, and the
Labiatae, or Mints, were introduced only a short time previous to the
appearance of man on the globe.

It appears that apples made a part of the food of that unknown
primitive people whose traces have lately been found at the bottom of
the Swiss lakes, supposed to be older than the foundation of Rome, so
old that they had no metallic implements. An entire black and
shrivelled Crab-Apple has been recovered from their stores.

Tacitus says of the ancient Germans that they satisfied their hunger
with wild apples, among other things.

Niebuhr[1] observes that "the words for a house, a field, a plough,
ploughing, wine, oil, milk, sheep, apples, and others relating to
agriculture and the gentler ways of life, agree in Latin and Greek,
while the Latin words for all objects pertaining to war or the chase
are utterly alien from the Greek." Thus the apple-tree may be
considered a symbol of peace no less than the olive.

[1] A German historical critic of ancient life.

The apple was early so important, and so generally distributed, that
its name traced to its root in many languages signifies fruit in
general. Maelon (Melon), in Greek, means an apple, also the fruit of
other trees, also a sheep and any cattle, and finally riches in general.

The apple-tree has been celebrated by the Hebrews, Greeks, Romans, and
Scandinavians. Some have thought that the first human pair were tempted
by its fruit. Goddesses are fabled to have contended for it, dragons
were set to watch it, and heroes were employed to pluck it.[2]

[2] The Greek myths especially referred to are The Choice of Paris and
The Apples of the Hesperides.

The tree is mentioned in at least three places in the Old Testament,
and its fruit in two or three more. Solomon sings, "As the apple-tree
among the trees of the wood, so is my beloved among the sons." And
again, "Stay me with flagons, comfort me with apples." The noblest part
of man's noblest feature is named from this fruit, "the apple of the
eye."

The apple-tree is also mentioned by Homer and Herodotus. Ulysses saw in
the glorious garden of Alcinous "pears and pomegranates and apple-trees
bearing beautiful fruit." And according to Homer, apples were among the
fruits which Tantalus could not pluck, the wind ever blowing their
boughs away from him. Theophrastus knew and described the apple-tree as
a botanist.

According to the prose Edda,[3] "Iduna keeps in a box the apples which
the gods, when they feel old age approaching, have only to taste of to
become young again. It is in this manner that they will be kept in
renovated youth until Ragnarok" (or the destruction of the Gods).

[3] The stories of the early Scandinavians.

I learn from Loudon[4] that "the ancient Welsh bards were rewarded for
excelling in song by the token of the apple-spray;" and "in the
Highlands of Scotland the apple-tree is the badge of the clan Lamont."

[4] An English authority on the culture of orchards and gardens.

The apple-tree belongs chiefly to the northern temperate zone. Loudon
says, that "it grows spontaneously in every part of Europe except the
frigid zone, and throughout Western Asia, China and Japan." We have
also two or three varieties of the apple indigenous in North America.
The cultivated apple-tree was first introduced into this country by the
earliest settlers, and is thought to do as well or better here than
anywhere else. Probably some of the varieties which are now cultivated
were first introduced into Britain by the Romans.

Pliny, adopting the distinction of Theophrastus, says, "Of trees there
are some which are altogether wild, some more civilized." Theophrastus
includes the apple among the last; and, indeed, it is in this sense the
most civilized of all trees. It is as harmless as a dove, as beautiful
as a rose, and as valuable as flocks and herds. It has been longer
cultivated than any other, and so is more humanized; and who knows but,
like the dog, it will at length be no longer traceable to its wild
original? It migrates with man, like the dog and horse and cow; first,
perchance, from Greece to Italy, thence to England, thence to America;
and our Western emigrant is still marching steadily toward the setting
sun with the seeds of the apple in his pocket, or perhaps a few young
trees strapped to his load. At least a million apple-trees are thus set
farther westward this year than any cultivated ones grew last year.
Consider how the Blossom-Week, like the Sabbath, is thus annually
spreading over the prairies; for when man migrates he carries with him
not only his birds, quadrupeds, insects, vegetables, and his very
sward, but his orchard also.

The leaves and tender twigs are an agreeable food to many domestic
animals, as the cow, horse, sheep, and goat; and the fruit is sought
after by the first, as well as by the hog. Thus there appears to have
existed a natural alliance between these animals and this tree from the
first. "The fruit of the Crab in the forests of France" is said to be
"a great resource for the wild boar."

Not only the Indian, but many indigenous insects, birds, and
quadrupeds, welcomed the apple-tree to these shores. The
tent-caterpillar saddled her eggs on the very first twig that was
formed, and it has since shared her affections with the wild cherry;
and the canker-worm also in a measure abandoned the elm to feed on it.
As it grew apace, the bluebird, robin, cherry-bird, king-bird, and many
more, came with haste and built their nests and warbled in its boughs,
and so became orchard-birds, and multiplied more than ever. It was an
era in the history of their race. The downy woodpecker found such a
savory morsel under its bark, that he perforated it in a ring quite
round the tree before he left it,--a thing which he had never done
before, to my knowledge. It did not take the partridge long to find out
how sweet its buds were, and every winter eve she flew, and still
flies, from the wood, to pluck them, much to the farmer's sorrow. The
rabbit, too, was not slow to learn the taste of its twigs and bark; and
when the fruit was ripe, the squirrel half-rolled, half-carried it to
his hole; and even the musquash crept up the bank from the brook at
evening, and greedily devoured it, until he had worn a path in the
grass there; and when it was frozen and thawed, the crow and the jay
were glad to taste it occasionally. The owl crept into the first
apple-tree that became hollow, and fairly hooted with delight, finding
it just the place for him; so, settling down into it, he has remained
there ever since.

My theme being the Wild Apple, I will merely glance at some of the
seasons in the annual growth of the cultivated apple, and pass on to my
special province.

The flowers of the apple are perhaps the most beautiful of any tree, so
copious and so delicious to both sight and scent. The walker is
frequently tempted to turn and linger near some more than usually
handsome one, whose blossoms are two thirds expanded. How superior it
is in these respects to the pear, whose blossoms are neither colored
nor fragrant!

By the middle of July, green apples are so large as to remind us of
coddling, and of the autumn. The sward is commonly strewed with little
ones which fall still-born, as it were,--Nature thus thinning them for
us. The Roman writer Palladius said: "If apples are inclined to fall
before their time, a stone placed in a split root will retain them."
Some such notion, still surviving, may account for some of the stones
which we see placed to be overgrown in the forks of trees. They have a
saying in Suffolk, England,--

    "At Michaelmas time, or a little before,
     Half an apple goes to the core."

Early apples begin to be ripe about the first of August; but I think
that none of them are so good to eat as some to smell. One is worth
more to scent your handkerchief with than any perfume which they sell
in the shops. The fragrance of some fruits is not to be forgotten,
along with that of flowers. Some gnarly apple which I pick up in the
road reminds me by its fragrance of all the wealth of
Pomona,[5]--carrying me forward to those days when they will be
collected in golden and ruddy heaps in the orchards and about the
cider-mills.

[5] The Roman goddess of fruit and fruit-trees.

A week or two later, as you are going by orchards or gardens,
especially in the evenings, you pass through a little region possessed
by the fragrance of ripe apples, and thus enjoy them without price, and
without robbing anybody.

There is thus about all natural products a certain volatile and
ethereal quality which represents their highest value, and which cannot
be vulgarized, or bought and sold. No mortal has ever enjoyed the
perfect flavor of any fruit, and only the godlike among men begin to
taste its ambrosial qualities. For nectar and ambrosia are only those
fine flavors of every earthly fruit which our coarse palates fail to
perceive,--just as we occupy the heaven of the gods without knowing it.
When I see a particularly mean man carrying a load of fair and fragrant
early apples to market, I seem to see a contest going on between him
and his horse, on the one side, and the apples on the other, and, to my
mind, the apples always gain it. Pliny says that apples are the
heaviest of all things, and that the oxen begin to sweat at the mere
sight of a load of them. Our driver begins to lose his load the moment
he tries to transport them to where they do not belong, that is, to any
but the most beautiful. Though he gets out from time to time, and feels
of them, and thinks they are all there, I see the stream of their
evanescent and celestial qualities going to heaven from his cart, while
the pulp and skin and core only are going to market. They are not
apples, but pomace. Are not these still Iduna's apples, the taste of
which keeps the gods forever young? and think you that they will let
Loki or Thjassi carry them off to Jotunheim,[6] while they grow
wrinkled and gray? No, for Ragnarok, or the destruction of the gods, is
not yet.

[6] Jotunheim (Ye(r)t'-un-hime) in Scandinavian mythology was the home
of the Jotun or Giants. Loki was a descendant of the gods, and a
companion of the Giants. Thjassi (Tee-assy) was a giant.

There is another thinning of the fruit, commonly near the end of August
or in September, when the ground is strewn with windfalls; and this
happens especially when high winds occur after rain. In some orchards
you may see fully three quarters of the whole crop on the ground, lying
in a circular form beneath the trees, yet hard and green,--or, if it is
a hillside, rolled far down the hill. However, it is an ill wind that
blows nobody any good. All the country over, people are busy picking up
the windfalls, and this will make them cheap for early apple-pies.

In October, the leaves falling, the apples are more distinct on the
trees. I saw one year in a neighboring town some trees fuller of fruit
than I remember to have ever seen before, small yellow apples hanging
over the road. The branches were gracefully drooping with their weight,
like a barberry-bush, so that the whole tree acquired a new character.
Even the topmost branches, instead of standing erect, spread and
drooped in all directions; and there were so many poles supporting the
lower ones, that they looked like pictures of banian-trees. As an old
English manuscript says, "The mo appelen the tree bereth the more sche
boweth to the folk."

Surely the apple is the noblest of fruits. Let the most beautiful or
the swiftest have it. That should be the "going" price of apples.

Between the fifth and twentieth of October I see the barrels lie under
the trees. And perhaps I talk with one who is selecting some choice
barrels to fulfil an order. He turns a specked one over many times
before he leaves it out. If I were to tell what is passing in my mind,
I should say that every one was specked which he had handled; for he
rubs off all the bloom, and those fugacious ethereal qualities leave
it. Cool evenings prompt the farmers to make haste, and at length I see
only the ladders here and there left leaning against the trees.

It would be well if we accepted these gifts with more joy and
gratitude, and did not think it enough simply to put a fresh load of
compost about the tree. Some old English customs are suggestive at
least. I find them described chiefly in Brand's "Popular Antiquities."
It appears that "on Christmas eve the farmers and their men in
Devonshire take a large bowl of cider, with a toast in it, and carrying
it in state to the orchard, they salute the apple-trees with much
ceremony, in order to make them bear well the next season." This
salutation consists in "throwing some of the cider about the roots of
the tree, placing bits of the toast on the branches," and then,
"encircling one of the best bearing trees in the orchard, they drink
the following toast three several times:--

      "'Here's to thee, old apple-tree,
     Whence thou mayst bud, and whence thou mayst blow,
     And whence thou mayst bear apples enow!
        Hats-full! caps-full!
        Bushel, bushel, sacks-full!
        And my pockets full, too! Hurra!'"


Also what was called "apple-howling" used to be practised in various
counties of England on New-Year's eve. A troop of boys visited the
different orchards, and, encircling the apple-trees, repeated the
following words:--

    "Stand fast, root! bear well, top!
     Pray God send us a good howling crop:
     Every twig, apples big;
     Every bow, apples enow!"


"They then shout in chorus, one of the boys accompanying them on a
cow's horn. During this ceremony they rap the trees with their sticks."
This is called "wassailing" the trees, and is thought by some to be "a
relic of the heathen sacrifice to Pomona."

Herrick sings,--

    "Wassaile the trees that they may beare
     You many a plum and many a peare;
     For more or less fruits they will bring
     As you so give them wassailing."

Our poets have as yet a better right to sing of cider than of wine; but
it behooves them to sing better than English Phillips did, else they
will do no credit to their Muse.




THE WILD APPLE.


So much for the more civilized apple-trees (urbaniores, as Pliny calls
them). I love better to go through the old orchards of ungrafted
apple-trees, at whatever season of the year,--so irregularly planted:
sometimes two trees standing close together; and the rows so devious
that you would think that they not only had grown while the owner was
sleeping, but had been set out by him in a somnambulic state. The rows
of grafted fruit will never tempt me to wander amid them like these.
But I now, alas, speak rather from memory than from any recent
experience, such ravages have been made!

Some soils, like a rocky tract called the Easterbrooks Country in my
neighborhood, are so suited to the apple, that it will grow faster in
them without any care, or if only the ground is broken up once a year,
than it will in many places with any amount of care. The owners of this
tract allow that the soil is excellent for fruit, but they say that it
is so rocky that they have not patience to plough it, and that,
together with the distance, is the reason why it is not cultivated.
There are, or were recently, extensive orchards there standing without
order. Nay, they spring up wild and bear well there in the midst of
pines, birches, maples, and oaks. I am often surprised to see rising
amid these trees the rounded tops of apple-trees glowing with red or
yellow fruit, in harmony with the autumnal tints of the forest.

Going up the side of a cliff about the first of November, I saw a
vigorous young apple-tree, which, planted by birds or cows, had shot up
amid the rocks and open woods there, and had now much fruit on it,
uninjured by the frosts, when all cultivated apples were gathered. It
was a rank wild growth, with many green leaves on it still, and made an
impression of thorniness. The fruit was hard and green, but looked as
if it would be palatable in the winter. Some was dangling on the twigs,
but more half-buried in the wet leaves under the tree, or rolled far
down the hill amid the rocks. The owner knows nothing of it. The day
was not observed when it first blossomed, nor when it first bore fruit,
unless by the chickadee. There was no dancing on the green beneath it
in its honor, and now there is no hand to pluck its fruit,--which is
only gnawed by squirrels, as I perceive. It has done double duty,--not
only borne this crop, but each twig has grown a foot into the air. And
this is such fruit! bigger than many berries, we must admit, and
carried home will be sound and palatable next spring. What care I for
Iduna's apples so long as I can get these?

When I go by this shrub thus late and hardy, and see its dangling
fruit, I respect the tree, and I am grateful for Nature's bounty, even
though I cannot eat it. Here on this rugged and woody hillside has
grown an apple-tree, not planted by man, no relic of a former orchard,
but a natural growth, like the pines and oaks. Most fruits which we
prize and use depend entirely on our care. Corn and grain, potatoes,
peaches, melons, etc., depend altogether on our planting; but the apple
emulates man's independence and enterprise. It is not simply carried,
as I have said, but, like him, to some extent, it has migrated to this
New World, and is even, here and there, making its way amid the
aboriginal trees; just as the ox and dog and horse sometimes run wild
and maintain themselves.

Even the sourest and crabbedest apple, growing in the most unfavorable
position, suggests such thoughts as these, it is so noble a fruit.




THE CRAB.


Nevertheless, our wild apple is wild only like myself, perchance, who
belong not to the aboriginal race here, but have strayed into the woods
from the cultivated stock. Wilder still, as I have said, there grows
elsewhere in this country a native and aboriginal Crab-Apple, "whose
nature has not yet been modified by cultivation." It is found from
Western New York to Minnesota and southward. Michaux[7] says that its
ordinary height "is fifteen or eighteen feet, but it is sometimes found
twenty-five or thirty feet high," and that the large ones "exactly
resemble the common apple-tree." "The flowers are white mingled with
rose-color, and are collected in corymbs." They are remarkable for
their delicious odor. The fruit, according to him, is about an inch and
a half in diameter, and is intensely acid. Yet they make fine
sweet-meats, and also cider of them. He concludes, that "if, on being
cultivated, it does not yield new and palatable varieties, it will at
least be celebrated for the beauty of its flowers, and for the
sweetness of its perfume."

[7] Pronounced mee-sho; a French botanist and traveller.

I never saw the Crab-Apple till May, 1861. I had heard of it through
Michaux, but more modern botanists, so far as I know, have not treated
it as of any peculiar importance. Thus it was a half-fabulous tree to
me. I contemplated a pilgrimage to the "Glades," a portion of
Pennsylvania, where it was said to grow to perfection. I thought of
sending to a nursery for it, but doubted if they had it, or would
distinguish it from European varieties. At last I had occasion to go to
Minnesota, and on entering Michigan I began to notice from the cars a
tree with handsome rose-colored flowers. At first I thought it some
variety of thorn; but it was not long before the truth flashed on me,
that this was my long-sought Crab-Apple. It was the prevailing
flowering shrub or tree to be seen from the cars at that season of the
year,--about the middle of May. But the cars never stopped before one,
and so I was launched on the bosom of the Mississippi without having
touched one, experiencing the fate of Tantalus. On arriving at St.
Anthony's Falls, I was sorry to be told that I was too far north for
the Crab-Apple. Nevertheless I succeeded in finding it about eight
miles west of the Falls; touched it and smelled it, and secured a
lingering corymb of flowers for my herbarium. This must have been near
its northern limit.




HOW THE WILD APPLE GROWS.


But though these are indigenous, like the Indians, I doubt whether they
are any hardier than those back-woodsmen among the apple-trees, which,
though descended from cultivated stocks, plant themselves in distant
fields and forests, where the soil is favorable to them. I know of no
trees which have more difficulties to contend with, and which more
sturdily resist their foes. These are the ones whose story we have to
tell. It oftentimes reads thus:--

Near the beginning of May, we notice little thickets of apple-trees
just springing up in the pastures where cattle have been,--as the rocky
ones of our Easter-brooks Country, or the top of Nobscot Hill in
Sudbury. One or two of these perhaps survive the drought and other
accidents,--their very birthplace defending them against the
encroaching grass and some other dangers, at first.

    In two years' time 't had thus
     Reached the level of the rocks,
    Admired the stretching world,
     Nor feared the wandering flocks.

    But at this tender age
     Its sufferings began:
    There came a browsing ox
     And cut it down a span.

This time, perhaps, the ox does not notice it amid the grass; but the
next year, when it has grown more stout, he recognizes it for a
fellow-emigrant from the old country, the flavor of whose leaves and
twigs he well knows; and though at first he pauses to welcome it, and
express his surprise, and gets for answer, "The same cause that brought
you here brought me," he nevertheless browses it again, reflecting, it
may be, that he has some title to it.

Thus cut down annually, it does not despair; but, putting forth two
short twigs for every one cut off, it spreads out low along the ground
in the hollows or between the rocks, growing more stout and scrubby,
until it forms, not a tree as yet, but a little pyramidal, stiff,
twiggy mass, almost as solid and impenetrable as a rock. Some of the
densest and most impenetrable clumps of bushes that I have ever seen,
as well, on account of the closeness and stubbornness of their branches
as of their thorns, have been these wild-apple scrubs. They are more
like the scrubby fir and black spruce on which you stand, and sometimes
walk, on the tops of mountains, where cold is the demon they contend
with, than anything else. No wonder they are prompted to grow thorns at
last, to defend themselves against such foes. In their thorniness,
however, there is no malice, only some malic acid.

The rocky pastures of the tract I have referred to--for they maintain
their ground best in a rocky field--are thickly sprinkled with these
little tufts, reminding you often of some rigid gray mosses or lichens,
and you see thousands of little trees just springing up between them,
with the seed still attached to them.

Being regularly clipped all around each year by the cows, as a hedge
with shears, they are often of a perfect conical or pyramidal form,
from one to four feet high, and more or less sharp, as if trimmed by
the gardener's art. In the pastures on Nobscot Hill and its spurs they
make fine dark shadows when the sun is low. They are also an excellent
covert from hawks for many small birds that roost and build in them.
Whole flocks perch in them at night, and I have seen three robins'
nests in one which was six feet in diameter.

No doubt many of these are already old trees, if you reckon from the
day they were planted, but infants still when you consider their
development and the long life before them. I counted the annual rings
of some which were just one foot high, and as wide as high, and found
that they were about twelve years old, but quite sound and thrifty!
They were so low that they were unnoticed by the walker, while many of
their contemporaries from the nurseries were already bearing
considerable crops. But what you gain in time is perhaps in this case,
too, lost in power,--that is, in the vigor of the tree. This is their
pyramidal state.

The cows continue to browse them thus for twenty years or more, keeping
them down and compelling them to spread, until at last they are so
broad that they become their own fence, when some interior shoot, which
their foes cannot reach, darts upward with joy: for it has not
forgotten its high calling, and bears its own peculiar fruit in triumph.

Such are the tactics by which it finally defeats its bovine foes. Now,
if you have watched the progress of a particular shrub, you will see
that it is no longer a simple pyramid or cone, but out of its apex
there rises a sprig or two, growing more lustily perchance than an
orchard-tree, since the plant now devotes the whole of its repressed
energy to these upright parts. In a short time these become a small
tree, an inverted pyramid resting on the apex of the other, so that the
whole has now the form of a vast hour-glass. The spreading bottom,
having served its purpose, finally disappears, and the generous tree
permits the now harmless cows to come in and stand in its shade, and
rub against and redden its trunk, which has grown in spite of them, and
even to taste a part of its fruit, and so disperse the seed.

Thus the cows create their own shade and food; and the tree, its
hour-glass being inverted, lives a second life, as it were.

It is an important question with some nowadays, whether you should trim
young apple-trees as high as your nose or as high as your eyes. The ox
trims them up as high as he can reach, and that is about the right
height, I think.

In spite of wandering kine and other adverse circumstance, that
despised shrub, valued only by small birds as a covert and shelter from
hawks, has its blossom-week at last, and in course of time its harvest,
sincere, though small.

By the end of some October, when its leaves have fallen, I frequently
see such a central sprig, whose progress I have watched, when I thought
it had forgotten its destiny, as I had, bearing its first crop of small
green or yellow or rosy fruit, which the cows cannot get at over the
bushy and thorny hedge which surrounds it; and I make haste to taste
the new and undescribed variety. We have all heard of the numerous
varieties of fruit invented by Van Mons[9] and Knight.[10] This is the
system of Van Cow, and she has invented far more and more memorable
varieties than both of them.

[9] A Belgian chemist and horticulturist.

[10] An English vegetable physiologist.

Through what hardships it may attain to bear a sweet fruit! Though
somewhat small, it may prove equal, if not superior, in flavor to that
which has grown in a garden,--will perchance be all the sweeter and
more palatable for the very difficulties it has had to contend with.
Who knows but this chance wild fruit, planted by a cow or a bird on
some remote and rocky hillside, where it is as yet unobserved by man,
may be the choicest of all its kind, and foreign potentates shall hear
of it, and royal societies seek to propagate it, though the virtues of
the perhaps truly crabbed owner of the soil may never be heard of,--at
least, beyond the limits of his village? It was thus the Porter and the
Baldwin grew.

Every wild-apple shrub excites our expectation thus, somewhat as every
wild child. It is, perhaps, a prince in disguise. What a lesson to man!
So are human beings, referred to the highest standard, the celestial
fruit which they suggest and aspire to bear, browsed on by fate; and
only the most persistent and strongest genius defends itself and
prevails, sends a tender scion upward at last, and drops its perfect
fruit on the ungrateful earth. Poets and philosophers and statesmen
thus spring up in the country pastures, and outlast the hosts of
unoriginal men.

Such is always the pursuit of knowledge. The celestial fruits, the
golden apples of the Hesperides, are ever guarded by a hundred-headed
dragon which never sleeps, so that it is an herculean labor to pluck
them.

This is one and the most remarkable way in which the wild apple is
propagated; but commonly it springs up at wide intervals in woods and
swamps, and by the sides of roads, as the soil may suit it, and grows
with comparative rapidity. Those which grow in dense woods are very
tall and slender. I frequently pluck from these trees a perfectly mild
and tamed fruit. As Palladius says, "And the ground is strewn with the
fruit of an unbidden apple-tree."

It is an old notion, that, if these wild trees do not bear a valuable
fruit of their own, they are the best stocks by which to transmit to
posterity the most highly prized qualities of others. However, I am not
in search of stocks, but the wild fruit itself, whose fierce gust has
suffered no "inteneration." It is not my

     "highest plot
   To plant the Bergamot."




THE FRUIT, AND ITS FLAVOR.


The time for wild apples is the last of October and the first of
November. They then get to be palatable, for they ripen late, and they
are still, perhaps, as beautiful as ever. I make a great account of
these fruits, which the farmers do not think it worth the while to
gather,--wild flavors of the Muse, vivacious and inspiriting. The
farmer thinks that he has better in his barrels; but he is mistaken,
unless he has a walker's appetite and imagination, neither of which can
he have.

Such as grow quite wild, and are left out till the first of November, I
presume that the owner does not mean to gather. They belong to children
as wild as themselves,--to certain active boys that I know,--to the
wild-eyed woman of the fields, to whom nothing comes amiss, who gleans
after all the world,--and, moreover, to us walkers. We have met with
them, and they are ours. These rights, long enough insisted upon, have
come to be an institution in some old countries, where they have
learned how to live. I hear that "the custom of grippling, which may be
called apple-gleaning, is, or was formerly, practised in Herefordshire.
It consists in leaving a few apples, which are called the gripples, on
every tree, after the general gathering, for the boys, who go with
climbing-poles and bags to collect them."

As for those I speak of, I pluck them as a wild fruit, native to this
quarter of the earth,--fruit of old trees that have been dying ever
since I was a boy and are not yet dead, frequented only by the
wood-pecker and the squirrel, deserted now by the owner, who has not
faith enough to look under their boughs. From the appearance of the
tree-top, at a little distance, you would expect nothing but lichens to
drop from it, but your faith is rewarded by finding the ground strewn
with spirited fruit,--some of it, perhaps, collected at squirrel-holes,
with the marks of their teeth by which they carried them,--some
containing a cricket or two silently feeding within, and some,
especially in damp days, a shelless snail. The very sticks and stones
lodged in the tree-top might have convinced you of the savoriness of
the fruit which has been so eagerly sought after in past years.

I have seen no account of these among the "Fruits and Fruit-Trees of
America," though they are more memorable to my taste than the grafted
kinds; more racy and wild American flavors do they possess, when
October and November, when December and January, and perhaps February
and March even, have assuaged them somewhat. An old farmer in my
neighborhood, who always selects the right word, says that "they have a
kind of bow-arrow tang."

Apples for grafting appear to have been selected commonly, not so much
for their spirited flavor, as for their mildness, their size, and
bearing qualities,--not so much for their beauty, as for their fairness
and soundness. Indeed, I have no faith in the selected lists of
pomological gentlemen. Their "Favorites" and "Non-suches" and
"Seek-no-farthers," when I have fruited them, commonly turn out very
tame and forgetable. They are eaten with comparatively little zest, and
have no real tang nor smack to them.

What if some of these wildings are acrid and puckery, genuine verjuice,
do they not still belong to the Pomaceae, which are uniformly innocent
and kind to our race? I still begrudge them to the cider-mill. Perhaps
they are not fairly ripe yet.

No wonder that these small and high-colored apples are thought to make
the best cider. Loudon quotes from the Herefordshire Report that
"apples of a small size are always, if equal in quality, to be
preferred to those of a larger size, in order that the rind and kernel
may bear the greatest proportion to the pulp, which affords the weakest
and most watery juice." And he says, that, "to prove this, Dr. Symonds
of Hereford, about the year 1800, made one hogshead of cider entirely
from the rinds and cores of apples, and another from the pulp only,
when the first was found of extraordinary strength and flavor, while
the latter was sweet and insipid."

Evelyn[11] says that the "Red-strake" was the favorite cider-apple in
his day; and he quotes one Dr. Newburg as saying, "In Jersey 't is a
general observation, as I hear, that the more of red any apple has in
its rind, the more proper it is for this use. Pale-faced apples they
exclude as much as may be from their cider-vat." This opinion still
prevails.

[11] An English writer of the seventeenth century.

All apples are good in November. Those which the farmer leaves out as
unsalable, and unpalatable to those who frequent the markets, are
choicest fruit to the walker. But it is remarkable that the wild apple,
which I praise as so spirited and racy when eaten in the fields or
woods, being brought into the house, has frequently a harsh and crabbed
taste. The Saunter-er's Apple not even the saunterer can eat in the
house. The palate rejects it there, as it does haws and acorns, and
demands a tamed one; for there you miss the November air, which is the
sauce it is to be eaten with. Accordingly, when Tityrus, seeing the
lengthening shadows, invites Meliboeus to go home and pass the night
with him, he promises him mild apples and soft chestnuts. I frequently
pluck wild apples of so rich and spicy a flavor that I wonder all
orchardists do not get a scion from that tree, and I fail not to bring
home my pockets full. But perchance, when I take one out of my desk and
taste it in my chamber I find it unexpectedly crude,--sour enough to
set a squirrel's teeth on edge and make a jay scream.

These apples have hung in the wind and frost and rain till they have
absorbed the qualities of the weather or season, and thus are highly
seasoned, and they pierce and sting and permeate us with their spirit.
They must be eaten in season, accordingly,--that is, out-of-doors.

To appreciate the wild and sharp flavors of these October fruits, it is
necessary that you be breathing the sharp October or November air. The
out-door air and exercise which the walker gets give a different tone
to his palate, and he craves a fruit which the sedentary would call
harsh and crabbed. They must be eaten in the fields, when your system
is all aglow with exercise, when the frosty weather nips your fingers,
the wind rattles the bare boughs or rustles the few remaining leaves,
and the jay is heard screaming around. What is sour in the house a
bracing walk makes sweet. Some of these apples might be labelled, "To
be eaten in the wind."

Of course no flavors are thrown away; they are intended for the taste
that is up to them. Some apples have two distinct flavors, and perhaps
one-half of them must be eaten in the house, the other out-doors. One
Peter Whitney wrote from Northborough in 1782, for the Proceedings of
the Boston Academy, describing an apple-tree in that town "producing
fruit of opposite qualities, part of the same apple being frequently
sour and the other sweet;" also some all sour, and others all sweet,
and this diversity on all parts of the tree.

There is a wild apple on Nawshawtuck Hill in my town which has to me a
peculiarly pleasant bitter tang, not perceived till it is
three-quarters tasted. It remains on the tongue. As you eat it, it
smells exactly like a squash-bug. It is a sort of triumph to eat and
relish it.

I hear that the fruit of a kind of plum-tree in Provence is "called
Prunes sibarelles, because it is impossible to whistle after having
eaten them, from their sourness." But perhaps they were only eaten in
the house and in summer, and if tried out-of-doors in a stinging
atmosphere, who knows but you could whistle an octave higher and
clearer?

In the fields only are the sours and bitters of Nature appreciated;
just as the wood-chopper eats his meal in a sunny glade, in the middle
of a winter day, with content, basks in a sunny ray there, and dreams
of summer in a degree of cold which, experienced in a chamber, would
make a student miserable. They who are at work abroad are not cold, but
rather it is they who sit shivering in houses. As with temperatures, so
with flavors; as with cold and heat, so with sour and sweet. This
natural raciness, the sours and bitters which the diseased palate
refuses, are the true condiments.

Let your condiments be in the condition of your senses. To appreciate
the flavor of these wild apples requires vigorous and healthy senses,
papillae[12] firm and erect on the tongue and palate, not easily
flattened and tamed.

[12] A Latin word, accent on the second syllable, meaning here the
rough surface of the tongue and palate.

From my experience with wild apples, I can understand that there may be
reason for a savage's preferring many kinds of food which the civilized
man rejects. The former has the palate of an outdoor man. It takes a
savage or wild taste to appreciate a wild fruit.

What a healthy out-of-door appetite it takes to relish the apple of
life, the apple of the world, then!

    "Nor is it every apple I desire,
       Nor that which pleases every palate best;
    'T is not the lasting Deuxan I require,
       Nor yet the red-cheeked Greening I request,
     Nor that which first beshrewed the name of wife,
     Nor that whose beauty caused the golden strife:
     No, no! bring me an apple from the tree of life."

So there is one thought for the field, another for the house. I would
have my thoughts, like wild apples, to be food for walkers, and will
not warrant them to be palatable, if tasted in the house.




THEIR BEAUTY.


Almost all wild apples are handsome. They cannot be too gnarly and
crabbed and rusty to look at. The gnarliest will have some redeeming
traits even to the eye. You will discover some evening redness dashed
or sprinkled on some protuberance or in some cavity. It is rare that
the summer lets an apple go without streaking or spotting it on some
part of its sphere. It will have some red stains, commemorating the
mornings and evenings it has witnessed; some dark and rusty blotches,
in memory of the clouds and foggy, mildewy days that have passed over
it; and a spacious field of green reflecting the general face of
Nature,--green even as the fields; or a yellow ground, which implies a
milder flavor,--yellow as the harvest, or russet as the hills.

Apples, these I mean, unspeakably fair,--apples not of Discord, but
Concord! Yet not so rare but that the homeliest may have a share.
Painted by the frosts, some a uniform clear bright yellow, or red, or
crimson, as if their spheres had regularly revolved, and enjoyed the
influence of the sun on all sides alike,--some with the faintest pink
blush imaginable,--some brindled with deep red streaks like a cow, or
with hundreds of fine blood-red rays running regularly from the
stem-dimple to the blossom-end, like meridional lines, on a
straw-colored ground,--some touched with a greenish rust, like a fine
lichen, here and there, with crimson blotches or eyes more or less
confluent and fiery when wet,--and others gnarly, and freckled or
peppered all over on the stem side with fine crimson spots on a white
ground, as if accidentally sprinkled from the brush of Him who paints
the autumn leaves. Others, again, are sometimes red inside, perfused
with a beautiful blush, fairy food, too beautiful to eat,--apple of the
Hesperides, apple of the evening sky! But like shells and pebbles on
the sea-shore, they must be seen as they sparkle amid the withering
leaves in some dell in the woods, in the autumnal air, or as they lie
in the wet grass, and not when they have wilted and faded in the house.




THE NAMING OF THEM.


It would be a pleasant pastime to find suitable names for the hundred
varieties which go to a single heap at the cider-mill. Would it not tax
a man's invention,--no one to be named after a man, and all in the
lingua vernacula?[13] Who shall stand god-father at the christening of
the wild apples? It would exhaust the Latin and Greek languages, if
they were used, and make the lingua vernacula flag. We should have to
call in the sunrise and the sunset, the rainbow and the autumn woods
and the wild flowers, and the woodpecker and the purple finch, and the
squirrel and the jay and the butterfly, the November traveller and the
truant boy, to our aid.

[13] Lingua vernacula, common speech.

In 1836 there were in the garden of the London Horticultural Society
more than fourteen hundred distinct sorts. But here are species which
they have not in their catalogue, not to mention the varieties which
our Crab might yield to cultivation. Let us enumerate a few of these. I
find myself compelled, after all, to give the Latin names of some for
the benefit of those who live where English is not spoken,--for they
are likely to have a world-wide reputation.

There is, first of all, the Wood-Apple (Malus sylvatica); the Blue-Jay
Apple; the Apple which grows in Dells in the Woods (sylvestrivallis),
also in Hollows in Pastures (campestrivallis); the Apple that grows in
an old Cellar-Hole (Malus cellaris); the Meadow-Apple; the
Partridge-Apple; the Truant's Apple (Cessatoris), which no boy will
ever go by without knocking off some, however late it may be; the
Saunterer's Apple,--you must lose yourself before you can find the way
to that; the Beauty of the Air (Decks Aeris); December-Eating; the
Frozen-Thawed (gelato-soluta), good only in that state; the Concord
Apple, possibly the same with the Musketa-quidensis; the Assabet Apple;
the Brindled Apple; Wine of New England; the Chickaree Apple; the Green
Apple (Malus viridis);--this has many synonyms; in an imperfect state,
it is the Cholera morbifera aut dysenterifera, puerulis
dilectissima;[14]--the Apple which Atalanta stopped to pick up; the
Hedge-Apple (Malus Sepium); the Slug-Apple (limacea); the
Railroad-Apple, which perhaps came from a core thrown out of the cars;
the Apple whose Fruit we tasted in our Youth; our Particular Apple, not
to be found in any catalogue,--Pedestrium Solatium;[15] also the Apple
where hangs the Forgotten Scythe; Iduna's Apples, and the Apples which
Loki found in the Wood;[16] and a great many more I have on my list,
too numerous to mention,--all of them good. As Bodaeus exclaims,
referring to the culti-vated kinds, and adapting Virgil to his case, so
I, adapting Bodaeus,--

   "Not if I had a hundred tongues, a hundred mouths,
    An iron voice, could I describe all the forms
    And reckon up all the names of these wild apples."


[14] The apple that brings the disease of cholera and of dysentery, the
fruit that small boys like best.

[15] The tramp's comfort.

[16] See p. 172 (Proof readers note: paragraph 25)




THE LAST GLEANING.


By the middle of November the wild apples have lost some of their
brilliancy, and have chiefly fallen. A great part are decayed on the
ground, and the sound ones are more palatable than before. The note of
the chickadee sounds now more distinct, as you wander amid the old
trees, and the autumnal dandelion is half-closed and tearful. But
still, if you are a skilful gleaner, you may get many a pocket-full
even of grafted fruit, long after apples are supposed to be gone
out-of-doors. I know a Blue-Pearmain tree, growing within the edge of a
swamp, almost as good as wild. You would not suppose that there was any
fruit left there, on the first survey, but you must look according to
system. Those which lie exposed are quite brown and rotten now, or
perchance a few still show one blooming cheek here and there amid the
wet leaves. Nevertheless, with experienced eyes, I explore amid the
bare alders and the huckleberry-bushes and the withered sedge, and in
the crevices of the rocks, which are full of leaves, and pry under the
fallen and decaying ferns, which, with apple and alder leaves, thickly
strew the ground. For I know that they lie concealed, fallen into
hollows long since and covered up by the leaves of the tree itself,--a
proper kind of packing. From these lurking-places, anywhere within the
circumference of the tree, I draw forth the fruit, all wet and glossy,
maybe nibbled by rabbits and hollowed out by crickets and perhaps with
a leaf or two cemented to it (as Curzon[17] an old manuscript from a
monastery's mouldy cellar), but still with a rich bloom on it, and at
least as ripe and well kept, if not better than those in barrels, more
crisp and lively than they. If these resources fail to yield anything,
I have learned to look between the bases of the suckers which spring
thickly from some horizontal limb, for now and then one lodges there,
or in the very midst of an alder-clump, where they are covered by
leaves, safe from cows which may have smelled them out. If I am
sharp-set, for I do not refuse the Blue-Pearmain, I fill my pockets on
each side; and as I retrace my steps in the frosty eve, being perhaps
four or five miles from home, I eat one first from this side, and then
from that, to keep my balance.

[17] Robert Curzon was a traveller who searched for old manuscripts in
the monasteries of the Levant. See his book, Ancient Monasteries of the
East.

I learn from Topsell's Gesner, whose authority appears to be Albertus,
that the following is the way in which the hedgehog collects and
carries home his apples. He says: "His meat is apples, worms, or
grapes: when he findeth apples or grapes on the earth, he rolleth
himself upon them, until he have filled all his prickles, and then
carrieth them home to his den, never bearing above one in his mouth;
and if it fortune that one of them fall off by the way, he likewise
shaketh off all the residue, and walloweth upon them afresh, until they
be all settled upon his back again. So, forth he goeth, making a noise
like a cart-wheel; and if he have any young ones in his nest, they pull
off his load wherewithal he is loaded, eating thereof what they please,
and laying up the residue for the time to come."




THE "FROZEN-THAWED" APPLE.


Toward the end of November, though some of the sound ones are yet more
mellow and perhaps more edible, they have generally, like the leaves,
lost their beauty, and are beginning to freeze. It is finger-cold, and
prudent farmers get in their barrelled apples, and bring you the apples
and cider which they have engaged; for it is time to put them into the
cellar. Perhaps a few on the ground show their red cheeks above the
early snow, and occasionally some even preserve their color and
soundness under the snow throughout the winter. But generally at the
beginning of the winter they freeze hard, and soon, though undecayed,
acquire the color of a baked apple.

Before the end of December, generally, they experience their first
thawing. Those which a month ago were sour, crabbed, and quite
unpalatable to the civilized taste, such at least as were frozen while
sound, let a warmer sun come to thaw them, for they are extremely
sensitive to its rays, are found to be filled with a rich, sweet cider,
better than any bottled cider that I know of, and with which I am
better acquainted than with wine. All apples are good in this state,
and your jaws are the cider-press. Others, which have more substance,
are a sweet and luscious food,--in my opinion of more worth than the
pine-apples which are imported from the West Indies. Those which lately
even I tasted only to repent of it,--for I am semi-civilized,--which
the farmer willingly left on the tree, I am now glad to find have the
property of hanging on like the leaves of the young oaks. It is a way
to keep cider sweet without boiling. Let the frost come to freeze them
first, solid as stones, and then the rain or a warm winter day to thaw
them, and they will seem to have borrowed a flavor from heaven through
the medium of the air in which they hang. Or perchance you find, when
you get home, that those which rattled in your pocket have thawed, and
the ice is turned to cider. But after the third or fourth freezing and
thawing they will not be found so good.

What are the imported half-ripe fruits of the torrid South to this
fruit matured by the cold of the frigid North? These are those crabbed
apples with which I cheated my companion, and kept a smooth face that I
might tempt him to eat. Now we both greedily fill our pockets with
them,--bending to drink the cup and save our lappets from the
overflowing juice,--and grow more social with their wine. Was there one
that hung so high and sheltered by the tangled branches that our sticks
could not dislodge it?

It is a fruit never carried to market, that I am aware of,--quite
distinct from the apple of the markets, as from dried apple and
cider,--and it is not every winter that produces it in perfection.

"Hear this, ye old men, and give ear, all ye in-habitants of the land!
Hath this been in your days, or even in the days of your fathers?...

"That which the palmer-worm hath left hath the locust eaten; and that
which the locust hath left hath the canker-worm eaten; and that which
the canker-worm hath left hath the caterpillar eaten.

"Awake, ye drunkards, and weep! and howl, all ye drinkers of wine,
because of the new wine! for it is cut off from your mouth.

"For a nation is come up upon my land, strong, and without number,
whose teeth are the teeth of a lion, and he hath the cheek-teeth of a
great lion.

"He hath laid my vine waste, and barked my fig-tree; he hath made it
clean bare, and cast it away; the branches thereof are made white....

"Be ye ashamed, O ye husbandmen! howl, O ye vine-dressers!...

"The vine is dried up, and the fig-tree languisheth; the
pomegranate-tree, the palm tree also, and the apple-tree, even all the
trees of the field, are withered: because joy is withered away from the
sons of men."[18]

[18] Joel, chapter i., verses 1-12.







WALKING





I wish to speak a word for Nature, for absolute Freedom and Wildness, as
contrasted with a freedom and culture merely civil,—to regard man as
an inhabitant, or a part and parcel of Nature, rather than a member
of society. I wish to make an extreme statement, if so I may make
an emphatic one, for there are enough champions of civilization: the
minister and the school committee and every one of you will take care of
that.

I have met with but one or two persons in the course of my life who
understood the art of Walking, that is, of taking walks—who had a
genius, so to speak, for sauntering, which word is beautifully derived
“from idle people who roved about the country, in the Middle Ages, and
asked charity, under pretense of going à la Sainte Terre,” to the Holy
Land, till the children exclaimed, “There goes a Sainte-Terrer,” a
Saunterer, a Holy-Lander. They who never go to the Holy Land in their
walks, as they pretend, are indeed mere idlers and vagabonds; but they
who do go there are saunterers in the good sense, such as I mean. Some,
however, would derive the word from sans terre without land or a home,
which, therefore, in the good sense, will mean, having no particular
home, but equally at home everywhere. For this is the secret of
successful sauntering. He who sits still in a house all the time may be
the greatest vagrant of all; but the saunterer, in the good sense, is
no more vagrant than the meandering river, which is all the while
sedulously seeking the shortest course to the sea. But I prefer the
first, which, indeed, is the most probable derivation. For every walk is
a sort of crusade, preached by some Peter the Hermit in us, to go forth
and reconquer this Holy Land from the hands of the Infidels.

It is true, we are but faint-hearted crusaders, even the walkers,
nowadays, who undertake no persevering, never-ending enterprises. Our
expeditions are but tours, and come round again at evening to the old
hearth-side from which we set out. Half the walk is but retracing our
steps. We should go forth on the shortest walk, perchance, in the
spirit of undying adventure, never to return,—prepared to send back
our embalmed hearts only as relics to our desolate kingdoms. If you are
ready to leave father and mother, and brother and sister, and wife
and child and friends, and never see them again,—if you have paid your
debts, and made your will, and settled all your affairs, and are a free
man; then you are ready for a walk.

To come down to my own experience, my companion and I, for I sometimes
have a companion, take pleasure in fancying ourselves knights of a new,
or rather an old, order—not Equestrians or Chevaliers, not Ritters or
Riders, but Walkers, a still more ancient and honorable class, I trust.
The chivalric and heroic spirit which once belonged to the Rider seems
now to reside in, or perchance to have subsided into, the Walker—not
the Knight, but Walker Errant. He is a sort of fourth estate, outside of
Church and State and People.

We have felt that we almost alone hereabouts practiced this noble art;
though, to tell the truth, at least if their own assertions are to be
received, most of my townsmen would fain walk sometimes, as I do, but
they cannot. No wealth can buy the requisite leisure, freedom, and
independence which are the capital in this profession. It comes only
by the grace of God. It requires a direct dispensation from Heaven
to become a walker. You must be born into the family of the Walkers.
Ambulator nascitur, non fit. Some of my townsmen, it is true, can
remember and have described to me some walks which they took ten years
ago, in which they were so blessed as to lose themselves for half
an hour in the woods; but I know very well that they have confined
themselves to the highway ever since, whatever pretensions they may make
to belong to this select class. No doubt they were elevated for a moment
as by the reminiscence of a previous state of existence, when even they
were foresters and outlaws.

         “When he came to grene wode,
            In a mery mornynge,
          There he herde the notes small
            Of byrdes mery syngynge.

         “It is ferre gone, sayd Robyn,
            That I was last here;
          Me lyste a lytell for to shote
            At the donne dere.”

I think that I cannot preserve my health and spirits, unless I spend
four hours a day at least—and it is commonly more than that—sauntering
through the woods and over the hills and fields, absolutely free from
all worldly engagements. You may safely say, A penny for your thoughts,
or a thousand pounds. When sometimes I am reminded that the mechanics
and shopkeepers stay in their shops not only all the forenoon, but all
the afternoon too, sitting with crossed legs, so many of them—as if the
legs were made to sit upon, and not to stand or walk upon—I think that
they deserve some credit for not having all committed suicide long ago.

I, who cannot stay in my chamber for a single day without acquiring some
rust, and when sometimes I have stolen forth for a walk at the eleventh
hour, or four o’clock in the afternoon, too late to redeem the day,
when the shades of night were already beginning to be mingled with the
daylight, have felt as if I had committed some sin to be atoned for,—I
confess that I am astonished at the power of endurance, to say nothing
of the moral insensibility, of my neighbors who confine themselves to
shops and offices the whole day for weeks and months, aye, and years
almost together. I know not what manner of stuff they are of—sitting
there now at three o’clock in the afternoon, as if it were three o’clock
in the morning. Bonaparte may talk of the three-o’clock-in-the-morning
courage, but it is nothing to the courage which can sit down cheerfully
at this hour in the afternoon over against one’s self whom you have
known all the morning, to starve out a garrison to whom you are bound
by such strong ties of sympathy. I wonder that about this time, or say
between four and five o’clock in the afternoon, too late for the morning
papers and too early for the evening ones, there is not a general
explosion heard up and down the street, scattering a legion of
antiquated and house-bred notions and whims to the four winds for an
airing—and so the evil cure itself.

How womankind, who are confined to the house still more than men, stand
it I do not know; but I have ground to suspect that most of them do not
stand it at all. When, early in a summer afternoon, we have been shaking
the dust of the village from the skirts of our garments, making haste
past those houses with purely Doric or Gothic fronts, which have such
an air of repose about them, my companion whispers that probably about
these times their occupants are all gone to bed. Then it is that I
appreciate the beauty and the glory of architecture, which itself never
turns in, but forever stands out and erect, keeping watch over the
slumberers.

No doubt temperament, and, above all, age, have a good deal to do with
it. As a man grows older, his ability to sit still and follow indoor
occupations increases. He grows vespertinal in his habits as the
evening of life approaches, till at last he comes forth only just before
sundown, and gets all the walk that he requires in half an hour.

But the walking of which I speak has nothing in it akin to taking
exercise, as it is called, as the sick take medicine at stated hours—as
the swinging of dumb-bells or chairs; but is itself the enterprise and
adventure of the day. If you would get exercise, go in search of the
springs of life. Think of a man’s swinging dumb-bells for his health,
when those springs are bubbling up in far-off pastures unsought by him!

Moreover, you must walk like a camel, which is said to be the only beast
which ruminates when walking. When a traveler asked Wordsworth’s servant
to show him her master’s study, she answered, “Here is his library, but
his study is out of doors.”

Living much out of doors, in the sun and wind, will no doubt produce a
certain roughness of character—will cause a thicker cuticle to grow over
some of the finer qualities of our nature, as on the face and hands,
or as severe manual labor robs the hands of some of their delicacy
of touch. So staying in the house, on the other hand, may produce a
softness and smoothness, not to say thinness of skin, accompanied by an
increased sensibility to certain impressions. Perhaps we should be more
susceptible to some influences important to our intellectual and moral
growth, if the sun had shone and the wind blown on us a little less; and
no doubt it is a nice matter to proportion rightly the thick and thin
skin. But methinks that is a scurf that will fall off fast enough—that
the natural remedy is to be found in the proportion which the night
bears to the day, the winter to the summer, thought to experience. There
will be so much the more air and sunshine in our thoughts. The callous
palms of the laborer are conversant with finer tissues of self-respect
and heroism, whose touch thrills the heart, than the languid fingers of
idleness. That is mere sentimentality that lies abed by day and thinks
itself white, far from the tan and callus of experience.

When we walk, we naturally go to the fields and woods: what would become
of us, if we walked only in a garden or a mall? Even some sects
of philosophers have felt the necessity of importing the woods to
themselves, since they did not go to the woods. “They planted groves and
walks of Platanes,” where they took subdiales ambulationes in porticos
open to the air. Of course it is of no use to direct our steps to the
woods, if they do not carry us thither. I am alarmed when it happens
that I have walked a mile into the woods bodily, without getting there
in spirit. In my afternoon walk I would fain forget all my morning
occupations and my obligations to society. But it sometimes happens that
I cannot easily shake off the village. The thought of some work will run
in my head and I am not where my body is—I am out of my senses. In my
walks I would fain return to my senses. What business have I in the
woods, if I am thinking of something out of the woods? I suspect myself,
and cannot help a shudder when I find myself so implicated even in what
are called good works—for this may sometimes happen.

My vicinity affords many good walks; and though for so many years I have
walked almost every day, and sometimes for several days together, I have
not yet exhausted them. An absolutely new prospect is a great happiness,
and I can still get this any afternoon. Two or three hours’ walking
will carry me to as strange a country as I expect ever to see. A single
farmhouse which I had not seen before is sometimes as good as the
dominions of the king of Dahomey. There is in fact a sort of harmony
discoverable between the capabilities of the landscape within a circle
of ten miles’ radius, or the limits of an afternoon walk, and the
threescore years and ten of human life. It will never become quite
familiar to you.

Nowadays almost all man’s improvements, so called, as the building of
houses and the cutting down of the forest and of all large trees, simply
deform the landscape, and make it more and more tame and cheap. A people
who would begin by burning the fences and let the forest stand! I saw
the fences half consumed, their ends lost in the middle of the prairie,
and some worldly miser with a surveyor looking after his bounds, while
heaven had taken place around him, and he did not see the angels
going to and fro, but was looking for an old post-hole in the midst of
paradise. I looked again, and saw him standing in the middle of a boggy
Stygian fen, surrounded by devils, and he had found his bounds without
a doubt, three little stones, where a stake had been driven, and looking
nearer, I saw that the Prince of Darkness was his surveyor.

I can easily walk ten, fifteen, twenty, any number of miles, commencing
at my own door, without going by any house, without crossing a road
except where the fox and the mink do: first along by the river, and then
the brook, and then the meadow and the wood-side. There are square miles
in my vicinity which have no inhabitant. From many a hill I can see
civilization and the abodes of man afar. The farmers and their works
are scarcely more obvious than woodchucks and their burrows. Man and
his affairs, church and state and school, trade and commerce, and
manufactures and agriculture even politics, the most alarming of them
all,—I am pleased to see how little space they occupy in the landscape.
Politics is but a narrow field, and that still narrower highway yonder
leads to it. I sometimes direct the traveler thither. If you would go to
the political world, follow the great road,—follow that market-man, keep
his dust in your eyes, and it will lead you straight to it; for it, too,
has its place merely, and does not occupy all space. I pass from it as
from a bean field into the forest, and it is forgotten. In one half hour
I can walk off to some portion of the earth’s surface where a man does
not stand from one year’s end to another, and there, consequently,
politics are not, for they are but as the cigar smoke of a man.

The village is the place to which the roads tend, a sort of expansion of
the highway, as a lake of a river. It is the body of which roads are
the arms and legs—a trivial or quadrivial place, the thoroughfare and
ordinary of travelers. The word is from the Latin villa which together
with via, a way, or more anciently ved and vella, Varro derives from
veho, to carry, because the villa is the place to and from which things
are carried. They who got their living by teaming were said vellaturam
facere. Hence, too, the Latin word _vilis_ and our _vile_; also _villain_.
This suggests what kind of degeneracy villagers are liable to. They
are wayworn by the travel that goes by and over them, without traveling
themselves.

Some do not walk at all; others walk in the highways; a few walk across
lots. Roads are made for horses and men of business. I do not travel
in them much, comparatively, because I am not in a hurry to get to any
tavern or grocery or livery-stable or depot to which they lead. I am
a good horse to travel, but not from choice a roadster. The
landscape-painter uses the figures of men to mark a road. He would not
make that use of my figure. I walk out into a nature such as the old
prophets and poets, Menu, Moses, Homer, Chaucer, walked in. You may
name it America, but it is not America: neither Americus Vespucius,
nor Columbus, nor the rest were the discoverers of it. There is a truer
amount of it in mythology than in any history of America, so called,
that I have seen.

However, there are a few old roads that may be trodden with profit, as
if they led somewhere now that they are nearly discontinued. There
is the Old Marlborough Road, which does not go to Marlborough now,
methinks, unless that is Marlborough where it carries me. I am the
bolder to speak of it here, because I presume that there are one or two
such roads in every town.

       THE OLD MARLBOROUGH ROAD.

        Where they once dug for money,
        But never found any;
        Where sometimes Martial Miles
        Singly files,
        And Elijah Wood,
        I fear for no good:
        No other man,
        Save Elisha Dugan—
        O man of wild habits,
        Partridges and rabbits,
        Who hast no cares
        Only to set snares,
        Who liv’st all alone,
        Close to the bone;
        And where life is sweetest
        Constantly eatest.
     When the spring stirs my blood
      With the instinct to travel,
      I can get enough gravel
     On the Old Marlborough Road.
        Nobody repairs it,
        For nobody wears it;
        It is a living way,
        As the Christians say.
     Not many there be
      Who enter therein,
     Only the guests of the
      Irishman Quin.
     What is it, what is it
      But a direction out there,
     And the bare possibility
        Of going somewhere?
        Great guide boards of stone,
        But travelers none;
        Cenotaphs of the towns
        Named on their crowns.
        It is worth going to see
        Where you might be.
        What king
        Did the thing,
        I am still wondering;
        Set up how or when,
        By what selectmen,
        Gourgas or Lee,
        Clark or Darby?
        They’re a great endeavor
        To be something forever;
        Blank tablets of stone,
        Where a traveler might groan,
        And in one sentence
        Grave all that is known
        Which another might read,
        In his extreme need.
        I know one or two
        Lines that would do,
        Literature that might stand
        All over the land,
        Which a man could remember
        Till next December,
        And read again in the spring,
        After the thawing.
     If with fancy unfurled
      You leave your abode,
     You may go round the world
      By the Old Marlborough Road.

At present, in this vicinity, the best part of the land is not private
property; the landscape is not owned, and the walker enjoys comparative
freedom. But possibly the day will come when it will be partitioned off
into so-called pleasure grounds, in which a few will take a narrow and
exclusive pleasure only,—when fences shall be multiplied, and man
traps and other engines invented to confine men to the public road,
and walking over the surface of God’s earth shall be construed to mean
trespassing on some gentleman’s grounds. To enjoy a thing exclusively
is commonly to exclude yourself from the true enjoyment of it. Let us
improve our opportunities, then, before the evil days come.

What is it that makes it so hard sometimes to determine whither we will
walk? I believe that there is a subtle magnetism in Nature, which, if we
unconsciously yield to it, will direct us aright. It is not indifferent
to us which way we walk. There is a right way; but we are very liable
from heedlessness and stupidity to take the wrong one. We would fain
take that walk, never yet taken by us through this actual world, which
is perfectly symbolical of the path which we love to travel in the
interior and ideal world; and sometimes, no doubt, we find it difficult
to choose our direction, because it does not yet exist distinctly in our
idea.

When I go out of the house for a walk, uncertain as yet whither I will
bend my steps, and submit myself to my instinct to decide for me,
I find, strange and whimsical as it may seem, that I finally and
inevitably settle southwest, toward some particular wood or meadow
or deserted pasture or hill in that direction. My needle is slow to
settle—varies a few degrees, and does not always point due southwest,
it is true, and it has good authority for this variation, but it always
settles between west and south-southwest. The future lies that way to
me, and the earth seems more unexhausted and richer on that side.
The outline which would bound my walks would be, not a circle, but a
parabola, or rather like one of those cometary orbits which have been
thought to be non-returning curves, in this case opening westward, in
which my house occupies the place of the sun. I turn round and round
irresolute sometimes for a quarter of an hour, until I decide, for a
thousandth time, that I will walk into the southwest or west. Eastward I
go only by force; but westward I go free. Thither no business leads
me. It is hard for me to believe that I shall find fair landscapes or
sufficient wildness and freedom behind the eastern horizon. I am not
excited by the prospect of a walk thither; but I believe that the forest
which I see in the western horizon stretches uninterruptedly toward
the setting sun, and there are no towns nor cities in it of enough
consequence to disturb me. Let me live where I will, on this side is the
city, on that the wilderness, and ever I am leaving the city more and
more, and withdrawing into the wilderness. I should not lay so much
stress on this fact, if I did not believe that something like this is
the prevailing tendency of my countrymen. I must walk toward Oregon, and
not toward Europe. And that way the nation is moving, and I may say that
mankind progress from east to west. Within a few years we have witnessed
the phenomenon of a southeastward migration, in the settlement of
Australia; but this affects us as a retrograde movement, and, judging
from the moral and physical character of the first generation of
Australians, has not yet proved a successful experiment. The eastern
Tartars think that there is nothing west beyond Thibet. “The world ends
there,” say they; “beyond there is nothing but a shoreless sea.” It is
unmitigated East where they live.

We go eastward to realize history and study the works of art and
literature, retracing the steps of the race; we go westward as into the
future, with a spirit of enterprise and adventure. The Atlantic is a
Lethean stream, in our passage over which we have had an opportunity
to forget the Old World and its institutions. If we do not succeed
this time, there is perhaps one more chance for the race left before
it arrives on the banks of the Styx; and that is in the Lethe of the
Pacific, which is three times as wide.

I know not how significant it is, or how far it is an evidence of
singularity, that an individual should thus consent in his pettiest walk
with the general movement of the race; but I know that something akin
to the migratory instinct in birds and quadrupeds,—which, in some
instances, is known to have affected the squirrel tribe, impelling them
to a general and mysterious movement, in which they were seen, say some,
crossing the broadest rivers, each on its particular chip, with its tail
raised for a sail, and bridging narrower streams with their dead,—that
something like the furor which affects the domestic cattle in the
spring, and which is referred to a worm in their tails,—affects both
nations and individuals, either perennially or from time to time. Not
a flock of wild geese cackles over our town, but it to some extent
unsettles the value of real estate here, and, if I were a broker, I
should probably take that disturbance into account.

   “Than longen folk to gon on pilgrimages,
   And palmeres for to seken strange strondes.”

Every sunset which I witness inspires me with the desire to go to a West
as distant and as fair as that into which the sun goes down. He appears
to migrate westward daily, and tempt us to follow him. He is the Great
Western Pioneer whom the nations follow. We dream all night of those
mountain ridges in the horizon, though they may be of vapor only, which
were last gilded by his rays. The island of Atlantis, and the islands
and gardens of the Hesperides, a sort of terrestrial paradise, appear
to have been the Great West of the ancients, enveloped in mystery and
poetry. Who has not seen in imagination, when looking into the sunset
sky, the gardens of the Hesperides, and the foundation of all those
fables?

Columbus felt the westward tendency more strongly than any before. He
obeyed it, and found a New World for Castile and Leon. The herd of men
in those days scented fresh pastures from afar.

  “And now the sun had stretched out all the hills,
  And now was dropped into the western bay;
  At last he rose, and twitched his mantle blue;
  To-morrow to fresh woods and pastures new.”

Where on the globe can there be found an area of equal extent with that
occupied by the bulk of our States, so fertile and so rich and varied in
its productions, and at the same time so habitable by the European, as
this is? Michaux, who knew but part of them, says that “the species of
large trees are much more numerous in North America than in Europe; in
the United States there are more than one hundred and forty species that
exceed thirty feet in height; in France there are but thirty that attain
this size.” Later botanists more than confirm his observations. Humboldt
came to America to realize his youthful dreams of a tropical vegetation,
and he beheld it in its greatest perfection in the primitive forests of
the Amazon, the most gigantic wilderness on the earth, which he has so
eloquently described. The geographer Guyot, himself a European, goes
further—further than I am ready to follow him; yet not when he says: “As
the plant is made for the animal, as the vegetable world is made for the
animal world, America is made for the man of the Old World.... The man
of the Old World sets out upon his way. Leaving the highlands of Asia,
he descends from station to station towards Europe. Each of his steps
is marked by a new civilization superior to the preceding, by a greater
power of development. Arrived at the Atlantic, he pauses on the shore of
this unknown ocean, the bounds of which he knows not, and turns upon
his footprints for an instant.” When he has exhausted the rich soil of
Europe, and reinvigorated himself, “then recommences his adventurous
career westward as in the earliest ages.” So far Guyot.

From this western impulse coming in contact with the barrier of the
Atlantic sprang the commerce and enterprise of modern times. The younger
Michaux, in his Travels West of the Alleghanies in 1802, says that the
common inquiry in the newly settled West was, “‘From what part of
the world have you come?’ As if these vast and fertile regions would
naturally be the place of meeting and common country of all the
inhabitants of the globe.”

To use an obsolete Latin word, I might say, Ex oriente lux; ex occidente
FRUX. From the East light; from the West fruit.

Sir Francis Head, an English traveler and a Governor-General of Canada,
tells us that “in both the northern and southern hemispheres of the New
World, Nature has not only outlined her works on a larger scale, but has
painted the whole picture with brighter and more costly colors than she
used in delineating and in beautifying the Old World.... The heavens of
America appear infinitely higher, the sky is bluer, the air is fresher,
the cold is intenser, the moon looks larger, the stars are brighter the
thunder is louder, the lightning is vivider, the wind is stronger,
the rain is heavier, the mountains are higher, the rivers longer, the
forests bigger, the plains broader.” This statement will do at least
to set against Buffon’s account of this part of the world and its
productions.

Linnæus said long ago, “Nescio quæ facies læta, glabra plantis
Americanis” (I know not what there is of joyous and smooth in the aspect
of American plants); and I think that in this country there are no, or
at most very few, Africanæ bestiæ, African beasts, as the Romans called
them, and that in this respect also it is peculiarly fitted for the
habitation of man. We are told that within three miles of the center of
the East Indian city of Singapore, some of the inhabitants are annually
carried off by tigers; but the traveler can lie down in the woods at
night almost anywhere in North America without fear of wild beasts.

These are encouraging testimonies. If the moon looks larger here than
in Europe, probably the sun looks larger also. If the heavens of America
appear infinitely higher, and the stars brighter, I trust that these
facts are symbolical of the height to which the philosophy and poetry
and religion of her inhabitants may one day soar. At length, perchance,
the immaterial heaven will appear as much higher to the American mind,
and the intimations that star it as much brighter. For I believe that
climate does thus react on man—as there is something in the mountain
air that feeds the spirit and inspires. Will not man grow to greater
perfection intellectually as well as physically under these influences?
Or is it unimportant how many foggy days there are in his life? I trust
that we shall be more imaginative, that our thoughts will be clearer,
fresher, and more ethereal, as our sky—our understanding more
comprehensive and broader, like our plains—our intellect generally on a
grander scale, like our thunder and lightning, our rivers and mountains
and forests,—and our hearts shall even correspond in breadth and depth
and grandeur to our inland seas. Perchance there will appear to the
traveler something, he knows not what, of læta and glabra, of joyous and
serene, in our very faces. Else to what end does the world go on, and
why was America discovered?

To Americans I hardly need to say—

      “Westward the star of empire takes its way.”
As a true patriot, I should be ashamed to think that Adam in paradise
was more favorably situated on the whole than the backwoodsman in this
country.

Our sympathies in Massachusetts are not confined to New England; though
we may be estranged from the South, we sympathize with the West. There
is the home of the younger sons, as among the Scandinavians they took to
the sea for their inheritance. It is too late to be studying Hebrew; it
is more important to understand even the slang of today.

Some months ago I went to see a panorama of the Rhine. It was like
a dream of the Middle Ages. I floated down its historic stream in
something more than imagination, under bridges built by the Romans, and
repaired by later heroes, past cities and castles whose very names were
music to my ears, and each of which was the subject of a legend. There
were Ehrenbreitstein and Rolandseck and Coblentz, which I knew only in
history. They were ruins that interested me chiefly. There seemed to
come up from its waters and its vine-clad hills and valleys a hushed
music as of crusaders departing for the Holy Land. I floated along under
the spell of enchantment, as if I had been transported to an heroic age,
and breathed an atmosphere of chivalry.

Soon after, I went to see a panorama of the Mississippi, and as I worked
my way up the river in the light of to-day, and saw the steamboats
wooding up, counted the rising cities, gazed on the fresh ruins of
Nauvoo, beheld the Indians moving west across the stream, and, as before
I had looked up the Moselle, now looked up the Ohio and the Missouri and
heard the legends of Dubuque and of Wenona’s Cliff—still thinking more
of the future than of the past or present—I saw that this was a Rhine
stream of a different kind; that the foundations of castles were yet to
be laid, and the famous bridges were yet to be thrown over the river;
and I felt that this was the heroic age itself, though we know it not,
for the hero is commonly the simplest and obscurest of men.

The West of which I speak is but another name for the Wild; and what I
have been preparing to say is, that in Wildness is the preservation of
the World. Every tree sends its fibers forth in search of the Wild. The
cities import it at any price. Men plow and sail for it. From the
forest and wilderness come the tonics and barks which brace mankind. Our
ancestors were savages. The story of Romulus and Remus being suckled by
a wolf is not a meaningless fable. The founders of every state which has
risen to eminence have drawn their nourishment and vigor from a similar
wild source. It was because the children of the Empire were not suckled
by the wolf that they were conquered and displaced by the children of
the northern forests who were.

I believe in the forest, and in the meadow, and in the night in which
the corn grows. We require an infusion of hemlock spruce or arbor
vitæ in our tea. There is a difference between eating and drinking
for strength and from mere gluttony. The Hottentots eagerly devour the
marrow of the koodoo and other antelopes raw, as a matter of course.
Some of our northern Indians eat raw the marrow of the Arctic reindeer,
as well as various other parts, including the summits of the antlers, as
long as they are soft. And herein, perchance, they have stolen a march
on the cooks of Paris. They get what usually goes to feed the fire. This
is probably better than stall-fed beef and slaughterhouse pork to make
a man of. Give me a wildness whose glance no civilization can endure,—as
if we lived on the marrow of koodoos devoured raw.

There are some intervals which border the strain of the wood-thrush,
to which I would migrate—wild lands where no settler has squatted; to
which, methinks, I am already acclimated.

The African hunter Cumming tells us that the skin of the eland, as well
as that of most other antelopes just killed, emits the most delicious
perfume of trees and grass. I would have every man so much like a wild
antelope, so much a part and parcel of Nature, that his very person
should thus sweetly advertise our senses of his presence, and remind us
of those parts of nature which he most haunts. I feel no disposition to
be satirical, when the trapper’s coat emits the odor of musquash even;
it is a sweeter scent to me than that which commonly exhales from the
merchant’s or the scholar’s garments. When I go into their wardrobes and
handle their vestments, I am reminded of no grassy plains and flowery
meads which they have frequented, but of dusty merchants’ exchanges and
libraries rather.

A tanned skin is something more than respectable, and perhaps olive is
a fitter color than white for a man—a denizen of the woods. “The pale
white man!” I do not wonder that the African pitied him. Darwin the
naturalist says, “A white man bathing by the side of a Tahitian was like
a plant bleached by the gardener’s art, compared with a fine, dark green
one, growing vigorously in the open fields.”

Ben Jonson exclaims,—

 “How near to good is what is fair!”
So I would say,—

 “How near to good is what is wild!”

Life consists with wildness. The most alive is the wildest. Not yet
subdued to man, its presence refreshes him. One who pressed forward
incessantly and never rested from his labors, who grew fast and made
infinite demands on life, would always find himself in a new country
or wilderness, and surrounded by the raw material of life. He would be
climbing over the prostrate stems of primitive forest trees.

Hope and the future for me are not in lawns and cultivated fields, not
in towns and cities, but in the impervious and quaking swamps. When,
formerly, I have analyzed my partiality for some farm which I had
contemplated purchasing, I have frequently found that I was attracted
solely by a few square rods of impermeable and unfathomable bog—a
natural sink in one corner of it. That was the jewel which dazzled me.
I derive more of my subsistence from the swamps which surround my native
town than from the cultivated gardens in the village. There are no
richer parterres to my eyes than the dense beds of dwarf andromeda
(Cassandra calyculata) which cover these tender places on the earth’s
surface. Botany cannot go farther than tell me the names of the shrubs
which grow there—the high-blueberry, panicled andromeda, lamb-kill,
azalea, and rhodora—all standing in the quaking sphagnum. I often think
that I should like to have my house front on this mass of dull red
bushes, omitting other flower plots and borders, transplanted spruce
and trim box, even graveled walks—to have this fertile spot under my
windows, not a few imported barrow-fuls of soil only to cover the sand
which was thrown out in digging the cellar. Why not put my house, my
parlor, behind this plot, instead of behind that meager assemblage of
curiosities, that poor apology for a Nature and art, which I call my
front yard? It is an effort to clear up and make a decent appearance
when the carpenter and mason have departed, though done as much for the
passer-by as the dweller within. The most tasteful front-yard fence was
never an agreeable object of study to me; the most elaborate ornaments,
acorn tops, or what not, soon wearied and disgusted me. Bring your sills
up to the very edge of the swamp, then (though it may not be the best
place for a dry cellar,) so that there be no access on that side to
citizens. Front yards are not made to walk in, but, at most, through,
and you could go in the back way.

Yes, though you may think me perverse, if it were proposed to me to
dwell in the neighborhood of the most beautiful garden that ever human
art contrived, or else of a dismal swamp, I should certainly decide for
the swamp. How vain, then, have been all your labors, citizens, for me!

My spirits infallibly rise in proportion to the outward dreariness. Give
me the ocean, the desert, or the wilderness! In the desert, pure air
and solitude compensate for want of moisture and fertility. The traveler
Burton says of it—“Your morale improves; you become frank and cordial,
hospitable and single-minded.... In the desert, spirituous liquors
excite only disgust. There is a keen enjoyment in a mere animal
existence.” They who have been traveling long on the steppes of Tartary
say, “On reentering cultivated lands, the agitation, perplexity, and
turmoil of civilization oppressed and suffocated us; the air seemed to
fail us, and we felt every moment as if about to die of asphyxia.” When
I would recreate myself, I seek the darkest wood, the thickest and most
interminable and, to the citizen, most dismal, swamp. I enter a swamp as
a sacred place,—a sanctum sanctorum. There is the strength, the marrow,
of Nature. The wild wood covers the virgin mould,—and the same soil is
good for men and for trees. A man’s health requires as many acres of
meadow to his prospect as his farm does loads of muck. There are
the strong meats on which he feeds. A town is saved, not more by the
righteous men in it than by the woods and swamps that surround it. A
township where one primitive forest waves above while another primitive
forest rots below—such a town is fitted to raise not only corn and
potatoes, but poets and philosophers for the coming ages. In such a
soil grew Homer and Confucius and the rest, and out of such a wilderness
comes the reformer eating locusts and wild honey.

To preserve wild animals implies generally the creation of a forest for
them to dwell in or resort to. So it is with man. A hundred years ago
they sold bark in our streets peeled from our own woods. In the very
aspect of those primitive and rugged trees there was, methinks, a
tanning principle which hardened and consolidated the fibers of men’s
thoughts. Ah! already I shudder for these comparatively degenerate days
of my native village, when you cannot collect a load of bark of good
thickness, and we no longer produce tar and turpentine.

The civilized nations—Greece, Rome, England—have been sustained by the
primitive forests which anciently rotted where they stand. They survive
as long as the soil is not exhausted. Alas for human culture! little is
to be expected of a nation, when the vegetable mould is exhausted, and
it is compelled to make manure of the bones of its fathers. There
the poet sustains himself merely by his own superfluous fat, and the
philosopher comes down on his marrow bones.

It is said to be the task of the American “to work the virgin soil,” and
that “agriculture here already assumes proportions unknown everywhere
else.” I think that the farmer displaces the Indian even because he
redeems the meadow, and so makes himself stronger and in some respects
more natural. I was surveying for a man the other day a single straight
line one hundred and thirty-two rods long, through a swamp at whose
entrance might have been written the words which Dante read over the
entrance to the infernal regions,—“Leave all hope, ye that enter”—that
is, of ever getting out again; where at one time I saw my employer
actually up to his neck and swimming for his life in his property,
though it was still winter. He had another similar swamp which I
could not survey at all, because it was completely under water, and
nevertheless, with regard to a third swamp, which I did survey from a
distance, he remarked to me, true to his instincts, that he would not
part with it for any consideration, on account of the mud which it
contained. And that man intends to put a girdling ditch round the whole
in the course of forty months, and so redeem it by the magic of his
spade. I refer to him only as the type of a class.

The weapons with which we have gained our most important victories,
which should be handed down as heirlooms from father to son, are not the
sword and the lance, but the bushwhack, the turf-cutter, the spade, and
the bog hoe, rusted with the blood of many a meadow, and begrimed with
the dust of many a hard-fought field. The very winds blew the Indian’s
cornfield into the meadow, and pointed out the way which he had not
the skill to follow. He had no better implement with which to intrench
himself in the land than a clam-shell. But the farmer is armed with plow
and spade.

In literature it is only the wild that attracts us. Dullness is but
another name for tameness. It is the uncivilized free and wild thinking
in Hamlet and the Iliad, in all the scriptures and mythologies, not
learned in the schools, that delights us. As the wild duck is more swift
and beautiful than the tame, so is the wild—the mallard—thought, which
’mid falling dews wings its way above the fens. A truly good book is
something as natural, and as unexpectedly and unaccountably fair and
perfect, as a wild flower discovered on the prairies of the west or
in the jungles of the east. Genius is a light which makes the darkness
visible, like the lightning’s flash, which perchance shatters the temple
of knowledge itself—and not a taper lighted at the hearthstone of the
race, which pales before the light of common day.

English literature, from the days of the minstrels to the Lake
Poets—Chaucer and Spenser and Milton, and even Shakespeare
included—breathes no quite fresh and in this sense wild strain. It is an
essentially tame and civilized literature, reflecting Greece and Rome.
Her wilderness is a green wood, her wild man a Robin Hood. There is
plenty of genial love of Nature, but not so much of Nature herself. Her
chronicles inform us when her wild animals, but not when the wild man in
her, became extinct.

The science of Humboldt is one thing, poetry is another thing. The
poet today, notwithstanding all the discoveries of science, and the
accumulated learning of mankind, enjoys no advantage over Homer.

Where is the literature which gives expression to Nature? He would be a
poet who could impress the winds and streams into his service, to speak
for him; who nailed words to their primitive senses, as farmers drive
down stakes in the spring, which the frost has heaved; who derived his
words as often as he used them—transplanted them to his page with earth
adhering to their roots; whose words were so true and fresh and natural
that they would appear to expand like the buds at the approach of
spring, though they lay half smothered between two musty leaves in a
library,—aye, to bloom and bear fruit there, after their kind, annually,
for the faithful reader, in sympathy with surrounding Nature.

I do not know of any poetry to quote which adequately expresses this
yearning for the Wild. Approached from this side, the best poetry is
tame. I do not know where to find in any literature, ancient or modern,
any account which contents me of that Nature with which even I am
acquainted. You will perceive that I demand something which no Augustan
nor Elizabethan age, which no culture, in short, can give. Mythology
comes nearer to it than anything. How much more fertile a Nature,
at least, has Grecian mythology its root in than English literature!
Mythology is the crop which the Old World bore before its soil was
exhausted, before the fancy and imagination were affected with blight;
and which it still bears, wherever its pristine vigor is unabated. All
other literatures endure only as the elms which overshadow our houses;
but this is like the great dragon-tree of the Western Isles, as old as
mankind, and, whether that does or not, will endure as long; for the
decay of other literatures makes the soil in which it thrives.

The West is preparing to add its fables to those of the East. The
valleys of the Ganges, the Nile, and the Rhine, having yielded their
crop, it remains to be seen what the valleys of the Amazon, the Plate,
the Orinoco, the St. Lawrence, and the Mississippi will produce.
Perchance, when, in the course of ages, American liberty has become
a fiction of the past,—as it is to some extent a fiction of the
present,—the poets of the world will be inspired by American mythology.

The wildest dreams of wild men, even, are not the less true, though they
may not recommend themselves to the sense which is most common among
Englishmen and Americans to-day. It is not every truth that recommends
itself to the common sense. Nature has a place for the wild clematis
as well as for the cabbage. Some expressions of truth are
reminiscent,—others merely sensible, as the phrase is,—others prophetic.
Some forms of disease, even, may prophesy forms of health. The geologist
has discovered that the figures of serpents, griffins, flying dragons,
and other fanciful embellishments of heraldry, have their prototypes in
the forms of fossil species which were extinct before man was created,
and hence “indicate a faint and shadowy knowledge of a previous state
of organic existence.” The Hindoos dreamed that the earth rested on an
elephant, and the elephant on a tortoise, and the tortoise on a serpent;
and though it may be an unimportant coincidence, it will not be out of
place here to state, that a fossil tortoise has lately been discovered
in Asia large enough to support an elephant. I confess that I am
partial to these wild fancies, which transcend the order of time and
development. They are the sublimest recreation of the intellect. The
partridge loves peas, but not those that go with her into the pot.

In short, all good things are wild and free. There is something in
a strain of music, whether produced by an instrument or by the human
voice—take the sound of a bugle in a summer night, for instance,—which
by its wildness, to speak without satire, reminds me of the cries
emitted by wild beasts in their native forests. It is so much of their
wildness as I can understand. Give me for my friends and neighbors wild
men, not tame ones. The wildness of the savage is but a faint symbol of
the awful ferity with which good men and lovers meet.

I love even to see the domestic animals reassert their native rights—any
evidence that they have not wholly lost their original wild habits and
vigor; as when my neighbor’s cow breaks out of her pasture early in the
spring and boldly swims the river, a cold, gray tide, twenty-five or
thirty rods wide, swollen by the melted snow. It is the buffalo crossing
the Mississippi. This exploit confers some dignity on the herd in my
eyes—already dignified. The seeds of instinct are preserved under the
thick hides of cattle and horses, like seeds in the bowels of the earth,
an indefinite period.

Any sportiveness in cattle is unexpected. I saw one day a herd of a
dozen bullocks and cows running about and frisking in unwieldy sport,
like huge rats, even like kittens. They shook their heads, raised their
tails, and rushed up and down a hill, and I perceived by their horns, as
well as by their activity, their relation to the deer tribe. But, alas!
a sudden loud Whoa! would have damped their ardor at once, reduced them
from venison to beef, and stiffened their sides and sinews like the
locomotive. Who but the Evil One has cried “Whoa!” to mankind?
Indeed, the life of cattle, like that of many men, is but a sort of
locomotiveness; they move a side at a time, and man, by his machinery,
is meeting the horse and the ox half way. Whatever part the whip has
touched is thenceforth palsied. Who would ever think of a side of any of
the supple cat tribe, as we speak of a side of beef?

I rejoice that horses and steers have to be broken before they can be
made the slaves of men, and that men themselves have some wild oats
still left to sow before they become submissive members of society.
Undoubtedly, all men are not equally fit subjects for civilization;
and because the majority, like dogs and sheep, are tame by inherited
disposition, this is no reason why the others should have their natures
broken that they may be reduced to the same level. Men are in the main
alike, but they were made several in order that they might be various.
If a low use is to be served, one man will do nearly or quite as well as
another; if a high one, individual excellence is to be regarded. Any man
can stop a hole to keep the wind away, but no other man could serve so
rare a use as the author of this illustration did. Confucius says,—“The
skins of the tiger and the leopard, when they are tanned, are as the
skins of the dog and the sheep tanned.” But it is not the part of a true
culture to tame tigers, any more than it is to make sheep ferocious; and
tanning their skins for shoes is not the best use to which they can be
put.

When looking over a list of men’s names in a foreign language, as
of military officers, or of authors who have written on a particular
subject, I am reminded once more that there is nothing in a name. The
name Menschikoff, for instance, has nothing in it to my ears more human
than a whisker, and it may belong to a rat. As the names of the Poles
and Russians are to us, so are ours to them. It is as if they had been
named by the child’s rigmarole—Iery-wiery ichery van, tittle-tol-tan. I
see in my mind a herd of wild creatures swarming over the earth, and to
each the herdsman has affixed some barbarous sound in his own dialect.
The names of men are, of course, as cheap and meaningless as Bose and
Tray, the names of dogs.

Methinks it would be some advantage to philosophy if men were named
merely in the gross, as they are known. It would be necessary only to
know the genus and perhaps the race or variety, to know the individual.
We are not prepared to believe that every private soldier in a Roman
army had a name of his own—because we have not supposed that he had a
character of his own. At present our only true names are nicknames. I
knew a boy who, from his peculiar energy, was called “Buster” by
his playmates, and this rightly supplanted his Christian name. Some
travellers tell us that an Indian had no name given him at first, but
earned it, and his name was his fame; and among some tribes he acquired
a new name with every new exploit. It is pitiful when a man bears a name
for convenience merely, who has earned neither name nor fame.

I will not allow mere names to make distinctions for me, but still
see men in herds for all them. A familiar name cannot make a man less
strange to me. It may be given to a savage who retains in secret his
own wild title earned in the woods. We have a wild savage in us, and
a savage name is perchance somewhere recorded as ours. I see that my
neighbor, who bears the familiar epithet William or Edwin, takes it off
with his jacket. It does not adhere to him when asleep or in anger, or
aroused by any passion or inspiration. I seem to hear pronounced by some
of his kin at such a time his original wild name in some jaw-breaking or
else melodious tongue.

Here is this vast, savage, hovering mother of ours, Nature, lying all
around, with such beauty, and such affection for her children, as the
leopard; and yet we are so early weaned from her breast to society, to
that culture which is exclusively an interaction of man on man,—a sort
of breeding in and in, which produces at most a merely English nobility,
a civilization destined to have a speedy limit.

In society, in the best institutions of men, it is easy to detect a
certain precocity. When we should still be growing children, we are
already little men. Give me a culture which imports much muck from the
meadows, and deepens the soil—not that which trusts to heating manures,
and improved implements and modes of culture only!

Many a poor sore-eyed student that I have heard of would grow faster,
both intellectually and physically, if, instead of sitting up so very
late, he honestly slumbered a fool’s allowance.

There may be an excess even of informing light. Niepce, a Frenchman,
discovered “actinism,” that power in the sun’s rays which produces a
chemical effect; that granite rocks, and stone structures, and statues
of metal “are all alike destructively acted upon during the hours of
sunshine, and, but for provisions of Nature no less wonderful, would
soon perish under the delicate touch of the most subtle of the agencies
of the universe.” But he observed that “those bodies which underwent
this change during the daylight possessed the power of restoring
themselves to their original conditions during the hours of night,
when this excitement was no longer influencing them.” Hence it has been
inferred that “the hours of darkness are as necessary to the inorganic
creation as we know night and sleep are to the organic kingdom.” Not
even does the moon shine every night, but gives place to darkness.

I would not have every man nor every part of a man cultivated, any more
than I would have every acre of earth cultivated: part will be tillage,
but the greater part will be meadow and forest, not only serving an
immediate use, but preparing a mould against a distant future, by the
annual decay of the vegetation which it supports.

There are other letters for the child to learn than those which Cadmus
invented. The Spaniards have a good term to express this wild and dusky
knowledge—Gramatica parda—tawny grammar, a kind of mother-wit derived
from that same leopard to which I have referred.

We have heard of a Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge. It is
said that knowledge is power, and the like. Methinks there is equal need
of a Society for the Diffusion of Useful Ignorance, what we will call
Beautiful Knowledge, a knowledge useful in a higher sense: for what
is most of our boasted so-called knowledge but a conceit that we know
something, which robs us of the advantage of our actual ignorance?
What we call knowledge is often our positive ignorance; ignorance our
negative knowledge. By long years of patient industry and reading of
the newspapers—for what are the libraries of science but files of
newspapers—a man accumulates a myriad facts, lays them up in his memory,
and then when in some spring of his life he saunters abroad into the
Great Fields of thought, he, as it were, goes to grass like a horse and
leaves all his harness behind in the stable. I would say to the Society
for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, sometimes,—Go to grass. You have
eaten hay long enough. The spring has come with its green crop. The very
cows are driven to their country pastures before the end of May; though
I have heard of one unnatural farmer who kept his cow in the barn and
fed her on hay all the year round. So, frequently, the Society for the
Diffusion of Useful Knowledge treats its cattle.

A man’s ignorance sometimes is not only useful, but beautiful—while his
knowledge, so called, is oftentimes worse than useless, besides being
ugly. Which is the best man to deal with—he who knows nothing about a
subject, and, what is extremely rare, knows that he knows nothing, or he
who really knows something about it, but thinks that he knows all?

My desire for knowledge is intermittent, but my desire to bathe my head
in atmospheres unknown to my feet is perennial and constant. The highest
that we can attain to is not Knowledge, but Sympathy with Intelligence.
I do not know that this higher knowledge amounts to anything more
definite than a novel and grand surprise on a sudden revelation of the
insufficiency of all that we called Knowledge before—a discovery that
there are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamed of in our
philosophy. It is the lighting up of the mist by the sun. Man cannot
know in any higher sense than this, any more than he can look serenely
and with impunity in the face of the sun: ?? t? ????, ?? ?e????
???se??,—“You will not perceive that, as perceiving a particular thing,”
say the Chaldean Oracles.

There is something servile in the habit of seeking after a law which we
may obey. We may study the laws of matter at and for our convenience,
but a successful life knows no law. It is an unfortunate discovery
certainly, that of a law which binds us where we did not know before
that we were bound. Live free, child of the mist—and with respect to
knowledge we are all children of the mist. The man who takes the liberty
to live is superior to all the laws, by virtue of his relation to the
law-maker. “That is active duty,” says the Vishnu Purana, “which is
not for our bondage; that is knowledge which is for our liberation: all
other duty is good only unto weariness; all other knowledge is only the
cleverness of an artist.”

It is remarkable how few events or crises there are in our histories,
how little exercised we have been in our minds, how few experiences we
have had. I would fain be assured that I am growing apace and rankly,
though my very growth disturb this dull equanimity—though it be with
struggle through long, dark, muggy nights or seasons of gloom. It would
be well if all our lives were a divine tragedy even, instead of this
trivial comedy or farce. Dante, Bunyan, and others appear to have been
exercised in their minds more than we: they were subjected to a kind of
culture such as our district schools and colleges do not contemplate.
Even Mahomet, though many may scream at his name, had a good deal more
to live for, aye, and to die for, than they have commonly.

When, at rare intervals, some thought visits one, as perchance he is
walking on a railroad, then, indeed, the cars go by without his hearing
them. But soon, by some inexorable law, our life goes by and the cars
return.

   “Gentle breeze, that wanderest unseen,
   And bendest the thistles round Loira of storms,
   Traveler of the windy glens,
   Why hast thou left my ear so soon?”

While almost all men feel an attraction drawing them to society, few are
attracted strongly to Nature. In their relation to Nature men appear
to me for the most part, notwithstanding their arts, lower than the
animals. It is not often a beautiful relation, as in the case of the
animals. How little appreciation of the beauty of the landscape there
is among us! We have to be told that the Greeks called the world ??sµ??
Beauty, or Order, but we do not see clearly why they did so, and we
esteem it at best only a curious philological fact.

For my part, I feel that with regard to Nature I live a sort of border
life, on the confines of a world into which I make occasional and
transient forays only, and my patriotism and allegiance to the state
into whose territories I seem to retreat are those of a moss-trooper.
Unto a life which I call natural I would gladly follow even a
will-o’-the-wisp through bogs and sloughs unimaginable, but no moon nor
firefly has shown me the causeway to it. Nature is a personality so vast
and universal that we have never seen one of her features. The walker in
the familiar fields which stretch around my native town sometimes finds
himself in another land than is described in their owners’ deeds, as it
were in some faraway field on the confines of the actual Concord, where
her jurisdiction ceases, and the idea which the word Concord suggests
ceases to be suggested. These farms which I have myself surveyed, these
bounds which I have set up, appear dimly still as through a mist; but
they have no chemistry to fix them; they fade from the surface of the
glass, and the picture which the painter painted stands out dimly from
beneath. The world with which we are commonly acquainted leaves no
trace, and it will have no anniversary.

I took a walk on Spaulding’s Farm the other afternoon. I saw the setting
sun lighting up the opposite side of a stately pine wood. Its golden
rays straggled into the aisles of the wood as into some noble hall. I
was impressed as if some ancient and altogether admirable and shining
family had settled there in that part of the land called Concord,
unknown to me—to whom the sun was servant—who had not gone into society
in the village—who had not been called on. I saw their park,
their pleasure-ground, beyond through the wood, in Spaulding’s
cranberry-meadow. The pines furnished them with gables as they grew.
Their house was not obvious to vision; the trees grew through it. I do
not know whether I heard the sounds of a suppressed hilarity or not.
They seemed to recline on the sunbeams. They have sons and daughters.
They are quite well. The farmer’s cart-path, which leads directly
through their hall, does not in the least put them out, as the muddy
bottom of a pool is sometimes seen through the reflected skies.
They never heard of Spaulding, and do not know that he is their
neighbor,—notwithstanding I heard him whistle as he drove his team
through the house. Nothing can equal the serenity of their lives. Their
coat-of-arms is simply a lichen. I saw it painted on the pines and oaks.
Their attics were in the tops of the trees. They are of no politics.
There was no noise of labor. I did not perceive that they were weaving
or spinning. Yet I did detect, when the wind lulled and hearing was done
away, the finest imaginable sweet musical hum,—as of a distant hive in
May, which perchance was the sound of their thinking. They had no idle
thoughts, and no one without could see their work, for their industry
was not as in knots and excrescences embayed.

But I find it difficult to remember them. They fade irrevocably out
of my mind even now while I speak and endeavor to recall them, and
recollect myself. It is only after a long and serious effort to
recollect my best thoughts that I become again aware of their
cohabitancy. If it were not for such families as this, I think I should
move out of Concord.

We are accustomed to say in New England that few and fewer pigeons visit
us every year. Our forests furnish no mast for them. So, it would seem,
few and fewer thoughts visit each growing man from year to year, for
the grove in our minds is laid waste,—sold to feed unnecessary fires of
ambition, or sent to mill, and there is scarcely a twig left for them
to perch on. They no longer build nor breed with us. In some more genial
season, perchance, a faint shadow flits across the landscape of the
mind, cast by the wings of some thought in its vernal or autumnal
migration, but, looking up, we are unable to detect the substance of
the thought itself. Our winged thoughts are turned to poultry. They
no longer soar, and they attain only to a Shanghai and Cochin China
grandeur. Those gra-a-ate thoughts, those gra-a-ate men you hear of!

We hug the earth—how rarely we mount! Methinks we might elevate
ourselves a little more. We might climb a tree, at least. I found my
account in climbing a tree once. It was a tall white pine, on the top
of a hill; and though I got well pitched, I was well paid for it, for
I discovered new mountains in the horizon which I had never seen
before,—so much more of the earth and the heavens. I might have walked
about the foot of the tree for threescore years and ten, and yet I
certainly should never have seen them. But, above all, I discovered
around me,—it was near the end of June,—on the ends of the topmost
branches only, a few minute and delicate red conelike blossoms,
the fertile flower of the white pine looking heavenward. I carried
straightway to the village the topmost spire, and showed it to stranger
jurymen who walked the streets,—for it was court week—and to farmers and
lumber-dealers and wood-choppers and hunters, and not one had ever seen
the like before, but they wondered as at a star dropped down. Tell
of ancient architects finishing their works on the tops of columns as
perfectly as on the lower and more visible parts! Nature has from
the first expanded the minute blossoms of the forest only toward the
heavens, above men’s heads and unobserved by them. We see only the
flowers that are under our feet in the meadows. The pines have developed
their delicate blossoms on the highest twigs of the wood every summer
for ages, as well over the heads of Nature’s red children as of her
white ones; yet scarcely a farmer or hunter in the land has ever seen
them.

Above all, we cannot afford not to live in the present. He is blessed
over all mortals who loses no moment of the passing life in remembering
the past. Unless our philosophy hears the cock crow in every barn-yard
within our horizon, it is belated. That sound commonly reminds us
that we are growing rusty and antique in our employments and habits of
thoughts. His philosophy comes down to a more recent time than ours.
There is something suggested by it that is a newer testament,—the gospel
according to this moment. He has not fallen astern; he has got up early
and kept up early, and to be where he is, is to be in season, in the
foremost rank of time. It is an expression of the health and soundness
of Nature, a brag for all the world,—healthiness as of a spring burst
forth, a new fountain of the Muses, to celebrate this last instant of
time. Where he lives no fugitive slave laws are passed. Who has not
betrayed his master many times since last he heard that note?

The merit of this bird’s strain is in its freedom from all
plaintiveness. The singer can easily move us to tears or to laughter,
but where is he who can excite in us a pure morning joy? When, in
doleful dumps, breaking the awful stillness of our wooden sidewalk on
a Sunday, or, perchance, a watcher in the house of mourning, I hear a
cockerel crow far or near, I think to myself, “There is one of us well,
at any rate,”—and with a sudden gush return to my senses.

We had a remarkable sunset one day last November. I was walking in a
meadow, the source of a small brook, when the sun at last, just before
setting, after a cold grey day, reached a clear stratum in the horizon,
and the softest, brightest morning sunlight fell on the dry grass and on
the stems of the trees in the opposite horizon and on the leaves of the
shrub-oaks on the hillside, while our shadows stretched long over the
meadow eastward, as if we were the only motes in its beams. It was such
a light as we could not have imagined a moment before, and the air also
was so warm and serene that nothing was wanting to make a paradise of
that meadow. When we reflected that this was not a solitary phenomenon,
never to happen again, but that it would happen forever and ever, an
infinite number of evenings, and cheer and reassure the latest child
that walked there, it was more glorious still.

The sun sets on some retired meadow, where no house is visible, with all
the glory and splendor that it lavishes on cities, and perchance as it
has never set before,—where there is but a solitary marsh hawk to have
his wings gilded by it, or only a musquash looks out from his cabin, and
there is some little black-veined brook in the midst of the marsh, just
beginning to meander, winding slowly round a decaying stump. We walked
in so pure and bright a light, gilding the withered grass and leaves,
so softly and serenely bright, I thought I had never bathed in such a
golden flood, without a ripple or a murmur to it. The west side of every
wood and rising ground gleamed like the boundary of Elysium, and the sun
on our backs seemed like a gentle herdsman driving us home at evening.

So we saunter toward the Holy Land, till one day the sun shall shine
more brightly than ever he has done, shall perchance shine into our
minds and hearts, and light up our whole lives with a great awakening
light, as warm and serene and golden as on a bank-side in Autumn.





WALDEN




Economy


When I wrote the following pages, or rather the bulk of them, I lived
alone, in the woods, a mile from any neighbor, in a house which I had
built myself, on the shore of Walden Pond, in Concord, Massachusetts,
and earned my living by the labor of my hands only. I lived there two
years and two months. At present I am a sojourner in civilized life
again.

I should not obtrude my affairs so much on the notice of my readers if
very particular inquiries had not been made by my townsmen concerning
my mode of life, which some would call impertinent, though they do not
appear to me at all impertinent, but, considering the circumstances,
very natural and pertinent. Some have asked what I got to eat; if I did
not feel lonesome; if I was not afraid; and the like. Others have been
curious to learn what portion of my income I devoted to charitable
purposes; and some, who have large families, how many poor children
I maintained. I will therefore ask those of my readers who feel no
particular interest in me to pardon me if I undertake to answer some of
these questions in this book. In most books, the _I_, or first person, is
omitted; in this it will be retained; that, in respect to egotism, is
the main difference. We commonly do not remember that it is, after all,
always the first person that is speaking. I should not talk so
much about myself if there were anybody else whom I knew as well.
Unfortunately, I am confined to this theme by the narrowness of my
experience. Moreover, I, on my side, require of every writer, first or
last, a simple and sincere account of his own life, and not merely what
he has heard of other men's lives; some such account as he would send to
his kindred from a distant land; for if he has lived sincerely, it
must have been in a distant land to me. Perhaps these pages are more
particularly addressed to poor students. As for the rest of my readers,
they will accept such portions as apply to them. I trust that none will
stretch the seams in putting on the coat, for it may do good service to
him whom it fits.

I would fain say something, not so much concerning the Chinese and
Sandwich Islanders as you who read these pages, who are said to live
in New England; something about your condition, especially your outward
condition or circumstances in this world, in this town, what it is,
whether it is necessary that it be as bad as it is, whether it cannot
be improved as well as not. I have travelled a good deal in Concord;
and everywhere, in shops, and offices, and fields, the inhabitants have
appeared to me to be doing penance in a thousand remarkable ways. What
I have heard of Bramins sitting exposed to four fires and looking in the
face of the sun; or hanging suspended, with their heads downward, over
flames; or looking at the heavens over their shoulders "until it becomes
impossible for them to resume their natural position, while from the
twist of the neck nothing but liquids can pass into the stomach"; or
dwelling, chained for life, at the foot of a tree; or measuring with
their bodies, like caterpillars, the breadth of vast empires; or
standing on one leg on the tops of pillars--even these forms of
conscious penance are hardly more incredible and astonishing than
the scenes which I daily witness. The twelve labors of Hercules were
trifling in comparison with those which my neighbors have undertaken;
for they were only twelve, and had an end; but I could never see that
these men slew or captured any monster or finished any labor. They have
no friend Iolaus to burn with a hot iron the root of the hydra's head,
but as soon as one head is crushed, two spring up.

I see young men, my townsmen, whose misfortune it is to have inherited
farms, houses, barns, cattle, and farming tools; for these are more
easily acquired than got rid of. Better if they had been born in the
open pasture and suckled by a wolf, that they might have seen with
clearer eyes what field they were called to labor in. Who made them
serfs of the soil? Why should they eat their sixty acres, when man is
condemned to eat only his peck of dirt? Why should they begin digging
their graves as soon as they are born? They have got to live a man's
life, pushing all these things before them, and get on as well as they
can. How many a poor immortal soul have I met well-nigh crushed and
smothered under its load, creeping down the road of life, pushing before
it a barn seventy-five feet by forty, its Augean stables never cleansed,
and one hundred acres of land, tillage, mowing, pasture, and woodlot!
The portionless, who struggle with no such unnecessary inherited
encumbrances, find it labor enough to subdue and cultivate a few cubic
feet of flesh.

But men labor under a mistake. The better part of the man is soon plowed
into the soil for compost. By a seeming fate, commonly called necessity,
they are employed, as it says in an old book, laying up treasures which
moth and rust will corrupt and thieves break through and steal. It is
a fool's life, as they will find when they get to the end of it, if not
before. It is said that Deucalion and Pyrrha created men by throwing
stones over their heads behind them:--

           Inde genus durum sumus, experiensque laborum,
           Et documenta damus qua simus origine nati.

Or, as Raleigh rhymes it in his sonorous way,--

  "From thence our kind hard-hearted is, enduring pain and care,
   Approving that our bodies of a stony nature are."

So much for a blind obedience to a blundering oracle, throwing the
stones over their heads behind them, and not seeing where they fell.

Most men, even in this comparatively free country, through mere
ignorance and mistake, are so occupied with the factitious cares and
superfluously coarse labors of life that its finer fruits cannot be
plucked by them. Their fingers, from excessive toil, are too clumsy and
tremble too much for that. Actually, the laboring man has not leisure
for a true integrity day by day; he cannot afford to sustain the
manliest relations to men; his labor would be depreciated in the market.
He has no time to be anything but a machine. How can he remember well
his ignorance--which his growth requires--who has so often to use his
knowledge? We should feed and clothe him gratuitously sometimes, and
recruit him with our cordials, before we judge of him. The finest
qualities of our nature, like the bloom on fruits, can be preserved only
by the most delicate handling. Yet we do not treat ourselves nor one
another thus tenderly.

Some of you, we all know, are poor, find it hard to live, are sometimes,
as it were, gasping for breath. I have no doubt that some of you who
read this book are unable to pay for all the dinners which you have
actually eaten, or for the coats and shoes which are fast wearing or are
already worn out, and have come to this page to spend borrowed or stolen
time, robbing your creditors of an hour. It is very evident what mean
and sneaking lives many of you live, for my sight has been whetted by
experience; always on the limits, trying to get into business and trying
to get out of debt, a very ancient slough, called by the Latins _aes
alienum_, another's brass, for some of their coins were made of brass;
still living, and dying, and buried by this other's brass; always
promising to pay, promising to pay, tomorrow, and dying today,
insolvent; seeking to curry favor, to get custom, by how many modes,
only not state-prison offenses; lying, flattering, voting, contracting
yourselves into a nutshell of civility or dilating into an atmosphere of
thin and vaporous generosity, that you may persuade your neighbor to let
you make his shoes, or his hat, or his coat, or his carriage, or import
his groceries for him; making yourselves sick, that you may lay up
something against a sick day, something to be tucked away in an old
chest, or in a stocking behind the plastering, or, more safely, in the
brick bank; no matter where, no matter how much or how little.

I sometimes wonder that we can be so frivolous, I may almost say, as to
attend to the gross but somewhat foreign form of servitude called Negro
Slavery, there are so many keen and subtle masters that enslave both
North and South. It is hard to have a Southern overseer; it is worse to
have a Northern one; but worst of all when you are the slave-driver
of yourself. Talk of a divinity in man! Look at the teamster on the
highway, wending to market by day or night; does any divinity stir
within him? His highest duty to fodder and water his horses! What is his
destiny to him compared with the shipping interests? Does not he drive
for Squire Make-a-stir? How godlike, how immortal, is he? See how he
cowers and sneaks, how vaguely all the day he fears, not being immortal
nor divine, but the slave and prisoner of his own opinion of himself, a
fame won by his own deeds. Public opinion is a weak tyrant compared with
our own private opinion. What a man thinks of himself, that it is which
determines, or rather indicates, his fate. Self-emancipation even in the
West Indian provinces of the fancy and imagination--what Wilberforce
is there to bring that about? Think, also, of the ladies of the land
weaving toilet cushions against the last day, not to betray too green
an interest in their fates! As if you could kill time without injuring
eternity.

The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation. What is called
resignation is confirmed desperation. From the desperate city you
go into the desperate country, and have to console yourself with the
bravery of minks and muskrats. A stereotyped but unconscious despair
is concealed even under what are called the games and amusements of
mankind. There is no play in them, for this comes after work. But it is
a characteristic of wisdom not to do desperate things.

When we consider what, to use the words of the catechism, is the chief
end of man, and what are the true necessaries and means of life, it
appears as if men had deliberately chosen the common mode of living
because they preferred it to any other. Yet they honestly think there is
no choice left. But alert and healthy natures remember that the sun
rose clear. It is never too late to give up our prejudices. No way of
thinking or doing, however ancient, can be trusted without proof. What
everybody echoes or in silence passes by as true to-day may turn out to
be falsehood to-morrow, mere smoke of opinion, which some had trusted
for a cloud that would sprinkle fertilizing rain on their fields. What
old people say you cannot do, you try and find that you can. Old deeds
for old people, and new deeds for new. Old people did not know enough
once, perchance, to fetch fresh fuel to keep the fire a-going; new
people put a little dry wood under a pot, and are whirled round the
globe with the speed of birds, in a way to kill old people, as the
phrase is. Age is no better, hardly so well, qualified for an instructor
as youth, for it has not profited so much as it has lost. One may
almost doubt if the wisest man has learned anything of absolute value by
living. Practically, the old have no very important advice to give the
young, their own experience has been so partial, and their lives have
been such miserable failures, for private reasons, as they must
believe; and it may be that they have some faith left which belies that
experience, and they are only less young than they were. I have lived
some thirty years on this planet, and I have yet to hear the first
syllable of valuable or even earnest advice from my seniors. They have
told me nothing, and probably cannot tell me anything to the purpose.
Here is life, an experiment to a great extent untried by me; but it does
not avail me that they have tried it. If I have any experience which I
think valuable, I am sure to reflect that this my Mentors said nothing
about.

One farmer says to me, "You cannot live on vegetable food solely, for it
furnishes nothing to make bones with"; and so he religiously devotes a
part of his day to supplying his system with the raw material of
bones; walking all the while he talks behind his oxen, which, with
vegetable-made bones, jerk him and his lumbering plow along in spite
of every obstacle. Some things are really necessaries of life in some
circles, the most helpless and diseased, which in others are luxuries
merely, and in others still are entirely unknown.

The whole ground of human life seems to some to have been gone over by
their predecessors, both the heights and the valleys, and all things to
have been cared for. According to Evelyn, "the wise Solomon prescribed
ordinances for the very distances of trees; and the Roman prætors have
decided how often you may go into your neighbor's land to gather the
acorns which fall on it without trespass, and what share belongs to that
neighbor." Hippocrates has even left directions how we should cut our
nails; that is, even with the ends of the fingers, neither shorter nor
longer. Undoubtedly the very tedium and ennui which presume to have
exhausted the variety and the joys of life are as old as Adam. But man's
capacities have never been measured; nor are we to judge of what he can
do by any precedents, so little has been tried. Whatever have been thy
failures hitherto, "be not afflicted, my child, for who shall assign to
thee what thou hast left undone?"

We might try our lives by a thousand simple tests; as, for instance,
that the same sun which ripens my beans illumines at once a system of
earths like ours. If I had remembered this it would have prevented some
mistakes. This was not the light in which I hoed them. The stars are the
apexes of what wonderful triangles! What distant and different beings in
the various mansions of the universe are contemplating the same one at
the same moment! Nature and human life are as various as our several
constitutions. Who shall say what prospect life offers to another? Could
a greater miracle take place than for us to look through each other's
eyes for an instant? We should live in all the ages of the world in an
hour; ay, in all the worlds of the ages. History, Poetry, Mythology!--I
know of no reading of another's experience so startling and informing as
this would be.

The greater part of what my neighbors call good I believe in my soul
to be bad, and if I repent of anything, it is very likely to be my good
behavior. What demon possessed me that I behaved so well? You may say
the wisest thing you can, old man--you who have lived seventy years, not
without honor of a kind--I hear an irresistible voice which invites me
away from all that. One generation abandons the enterprises of another
like stranded vessels.

I think that we may safely trust a good deal more than we do. We may
waive just so much care of ourselves as we honestly bestow elsewhere.
Nature is as well adapted to our weakness as to our strength. The
incessant anxiety and strain of some is a well-nigh incurable form of
disease. We are made to exaggerate the importance of what work we do;
and yet how much is not done by us! or, what if we had been taken sick?
How vigilant we are! determined not to live by faith if we can avoid it;
all the day long on the alert, at night we unwillingly say our prayers
and commit ourselves to uncertainties. So thoroughly and sincerely are
we compelled to live, reverencing our life, and denying the possibility
of change. This is the only way, we say; but there are as many ways as
there can be drawn radii from one centre. All change is a miracle to
contemplate; but it is a miracle which is taking place every instant.
Confucius said, "To know that we know what we know, and that we do not
know what we do not know, that is true knowledge." When one man has
reduced a fact of the imagination to be a fact to his understanding, I
foresee that all men at length establish their lives on that basis.

Let us consider for a moment what most of the trouble and anxiety which
I have referred to is about, and how much it is necessary that we be
troubled, or at least careful. It would be some advantage to live
a primitive and frontier life, though in the midst of an outward
civilization, if only to learn what are the gross necessaries of life
and what methods have been taken to obtain them; or even to look over
the old day-books of the merchants, to see what it was that men most
commonly bought at the stores, what they stored, that is, what are the
grossest groceries. For the improvements of ages have had but little
influence on the essential laws of man's existence; as our skeletons,
probably, are not to be distinguished from those of our ancestors.

By the words, _necessary of life_, I mean whatever, of all that man
obtains by his own exertions, has been from the first, or from long use
has become, so important to human life that few, if any, whether from
savageness, or poverty, or philosophy, ever attempt to do without it. To
many creatures there is in this sense but one necessary of life, Food.
To the bison of the prairie it is a few inches of palatable grass,
with water to drink; unless he seeks the Shelter of the forest or the
mountain's shadow. None of the brute creation requires more than Food
and Shelter. The necessaries of life for man in this climate may,
accurately enough, be distributed under the several heads of Food,
Shelter, Clothing, and Fuel; for not till we have secured these are
we prepared to entertain the true problems of life with freedom and a
prospect of success. Man has invented, not only houses, but clothes and
cooked food; and possibly from the accidental discovery of the warmth of
fire, and the consequent use of it, at first a luxury, arose the present
necessity to sit by it. We observe cats and dogs acquiring the same
second nature. By proper Shelter and Clothing we legitimately retain
our own internal heat; but with an excess of these, or of Fuel, that
is, with an external heat greater than our own internal, may not
cookery properly be said to begin? Darwin, the naturalist, says of the
inhabitants of Tierra del Fuego, that while his own party, who were well
clothed and sitting close to a fire, were far from too warm, these naked
savages, who were farther off, were observed, to his great surprise, "to
be streaming with perspiration at undergoing such a roasting." So, we
are told, the New Hollander goes naked with impunity, while the European
shivers in his clothes. Is it impossible to combine the hardiness of
these savages with the intellectualness of the civilized man? According
to Liebig, man's body is a stove, and food the fuel which keeps up the
internal combustion in the lungs. In cold weather we eat more, in warm
less. The animal heat is the result of a slow combustion, and disease
and death take place when this is too rapid; or for want of fuel, or
from some defect in the draught, the fire goes out. Of course the vital
heat is not to be confounded with fire; but so much for analogy. It
appears, therefore, from the above list, that the expression, _animal
life_, is nearly synonymous with the expression, _animal heat_; for while
Food may be regarded as the Fuel which keeps up the fire within us--and
Fuel serves only to prepare that Food or to increase the warmth of our
bodies by addition from without--Shelter and Clothing also serve only to
retain the heat thus generated and absorbed.

The grand necessity, then, for our bodies, is to keep warm, to keep
the vital heat in us. What pains we accordingly take, not only with
our Food, and Clothing, and Shelter, but with our beds, which are our
night-clothes, robbing the nests and breasts of birds to prepare this
shelter within a shelter, as the mole has its bed of grass and leaves at
the end of its burrow! The poor man is wont to complain that this is a
cold world; and to cold, no less physical than social, we refer directly
a great part of our ails. The summer, in some climates, makes possible
to man a sort of Elysian life. Fuel, except to cook his Food, is
then unnecessary; the sun is his fire, and many of the fruits are
sufficiently cooked by its rays; while Food generally is more various,
and more easily obtained, and Clothing and Shelter are wholly or half
unnecessary. At the present day, and in this country, as I find by
my own experience, a few implements, a knife, an axe, a spade, a
wheelbarrow, etc., and for the studious, lamplight, stationery, and
access to a few books, rank next to necessaries, and can all be obtained
at a trifling cost. Yet some, not wise, go to the other side of the
globe, to barbarous and unhealthy regions, and devote themselves to
trade for ten or twenty years, in order that they may live--that is,
keep comfortably warm--and die in New England at last. The luxuriously
rich are not simply kept comfortably warm, but unnaturally hot; as I
implied before, they are cooked, of course _à la mode_.

Most of the luxuries, and many of the so-called comforts of life, are
not only not indispensable, but positive hindrances to the elevation
of mankind. With respect to luxuries and comforts, the wisest have
ever lived a more simple and meagre life than the poor. The ancient
philosophers, Chinese, Hindoo, Persian, and Greek, were a class than
which none has been poorer in outward riches, none so rich in inward. We
know not much about them. It is remarkable that we know so much of them
as we do. The same is true of the more modern reformers and benefactors
of their race. None can be an impartial or wise observer of human life
but from the vantage ground of what we should call voluntary poverty.
Of a life of luxury the fruit is luxury, whether in agriculture, or
commerce, or literature, or art. There are nowadays professors of
philosophy, but not philosophers. Yet it is admirable to profess because
it was once admirable to live. To be a philosopher is not merely to have
subtle thoughts, nor even to found a school, but so to love wisdom as
to live according to its dictates, a life of simplicity, independence,
magnanimity, and trust. It is to solve some of the problems of life, not
only theoretically, but practically. The success of great scholars and
thinkers is commonly a courtier-like success, not kingly, not manly.
They make shift to live merely by conformity, practically as their
fathers did, and are in no sense the progenitors of a noble race of men.
But why do men degenerate ever? What makes families run out? What is the
nature of the luxury which enervates and destroys nations? Are we sure
that there is none of it in our own lives? The philosopher is in
advance of his age even in the outward form of his life. He is not fed,
sheltered, clothed, warmed, like his contemporaries. How can a man be a
philosopher and not maintain his vital heat by better methods than other
men?

When a man is warmed by the several modes which I have described, what
does he want next? Surely not more warmth of the same kind, as more and
richer food, larger and more splendid houses, finer and more abundant
clothing, more numerous, incessant, and hotter fires, and the like.
When he has obtained those things which are necessary to life, there is
another alternative than to obtain the superfluities; and that is, to
adventure on life now, his vacation from humbler toil having commenced.
The soil, it appears, is suited to the seed, for it has sent its radicle
downward, and it may now send its shoot upward also with confidence. Why
has man rooted himself thus firmly in the earth, but that he may rise in
the same proportion into the heavens above?--for the nobler plants are
valued for the fruit they bear at last in the air and light, far from
the ground, and are not treated like the humbler esculents, which,
though they may be biennials, are cultivated only till they have
perfected their root, and often cut down at top for this purpose, so
that most would not know them in their flowering season.

I do not mean to prescribe rules to strong and valiant natures, who will
mind their own affairs whether in heaven or hell, and perchance build
more magnificently and spend more lavishly than the richest, without
ever impoverishing themselves, not knowing how they live--if, indeed,
there are any such, as has been dreamed; nor to those who find their
encouragement and inspiration in precisely the present condition of
things, and cherish it with the fondness and enthusiasm of lovers--and,
to some extent, I reckon myself in this number; I do not speak to those
who are well employed, in whatever circumstances, and they know whether
they are well employed or not;--but mainly to the mass of men who are
discontented, and idly complaining of the hardness of their lot or of
the times, when they might improve them. There are some who complain
most energetically and inconsolably of any, because they are, as they
say, doing their duty. I also have in my mind that seemingly wealthy,
but most terribly impoverished class of all, who have accumulated dross,
but know not how to use it, or get rid of it, and thus have forged their
own golden or silver fetters.

       *       *       *       *       *

If I should attempt to tell how I have desired to spend my life in years
past, it would probably surprise those of my readers who are somewhat
acquainted with its actual history; it would certainly astonish those
who know nothing about it. I will only hint at some of the enterprises
which I have cherished.

In any weather, at any hour of the day or night, I have been anxious to
improve the nick of time, and notch it on my stick too; to stand on the
meeting of two eternities, the past and future, which is precisely the
present moment; to toe that line. You will pardon some obscurities,
for there are more secrets in my trade than in most men's, and yet not
voluntarily kept, but inseparable from its very nature. I would gladly
tell all that I know about it, and never paint "No Admittance" on my
gate.

I long ago lost a hound, a bay horse, and a turtle dove, and am still
on their trail. Many are the travellers I have spoken concerning them,
describing their tracks and what calls they answered to. I have met one
or two who had heard the hound, and the tramp of the horse, and even
seen the dove disappear behind a cloud, and they seemed as anxious to
recover them as if they had lost them themselves.

To anticipate, not the sunrise and the dawn merely, but, if possible,
Nature herself! How many mornings, summer and winter, before yet any
neighbor was stirring about his business, have I been about mine! No
doubt, many of my townsmen have met me returning from this enterprise,
farmers starting for Boston in the twilight, or woodchoppers going
to their work. It is true, I never assisted the sun materially in his
rising, but, doubt not, it was of the last importance only to be present
at it.

So many autumn, ay, and winter days, spent outside the town, trying to
hear what was in the wind, to hear and carry it express! I well-nigh
sunk all my capital in it, and lost my own breath into the bargain,
running in the face of it. If it had concerned either of the political
parties, depend upon it, it would have appeared in the Gazette with the
earliest intelligence. At other times watching from the observatory of
some cliff or tree, to telegraph any new arrival; or waiting at evening
on the hill-tops for the sky to fall, that I might catch something,
though I never caught much, and that, manna-wise, would dissolve again
in the sun.

For a long time I was reporter to a journal, of no very wide
circulation, whose editor has never yet seen fit to print the bulk of my
contributions, and, as is too common with writers, I got only my labor
for my pains. However, in this case my pains were their own reward.

For many years I was self-appointed inspector of snow-storms and
rain-storms, and did my duty faithfully; surveyor, if not of highways,
then of forest paths and all across-lot routes, keeping them open, and
ravines bridged and passable at all seasons, where the public heel had
testified to their utility.

I have looked after the wild stock of the town, which give a faithful
herdsman a good deal of trouble by leaping fences; and I have had an
eye to the unfrequented nooks and corners of the farm; though I did
not always know whether Jonas or Solomon worked in a particular
field to-day; that was none of my business. I have watered the red
huckleberry, the sand cherry and the nettle-tree, the red pine and
the black ash, the white grape and the yellow violet, which might have
withered else in dry seasons.

In short, I went on thus for a long time (I may say it without
boasting), faithfully minding my business, till it became more and more
evident that my townsmen would not after all admit me into the list of
town officers, nor make my place a sinecure with a moderate allowance.
My accounts, which I can swear to have kept faithfully, I have, indeed,
never got audited, still less accepted, still less paid and settled.
However, I have not set my heart on that.

Not long since, a strolling Indian went to sell baskets at the house
of a well-known lawyer in my neighborhood. "Do you wish to buy any
baskets?" he asked. "No, we do not want any," was the reply. "What!"
exclaimed the Indian as he went out the gate, "do you mean to starve
us?" Having seen his industrious white neighbors so well off--that
the lawyer had only to weave arguments, and, by some magic, wealth and
standing followed--he had said to himself: I will go into business; I
will weave baskets; it is a thing which I can do. Thinking that when he
had made the baskets he would have done his part, and then it would be
the white man's to buy them. He had not discovered that it was necessary
for him to make it worth the other's while to buy them, or at least make
him think that it was so, or to make something else which it would be
worth his while to buy. I too had woven a kind of basket of a delicate
texture, but I had not made it worth any one's while to buy them. Yet
not the less, in my case, did I think it worth my while to weave them,
and instead of studying how to make it worth men's while to buy my
baskets, I studied rather how to avoid the necessity of selling them.
The life which men praise and regard as successful is but one kind. Why
should we exaggerate any one kind at the expense of the others?

Finding that my fellow-citizens were not likely to offer me any room in
the court house, or any curacy or living anywhere else, but I must shift
for myself, I turned my face more exclusively than ever to the woods,
where I was better known. I determined to go into business at once, and
not wait to acquire the usual capital, using such slender means as I had
already got. My purpose in going to Walden Pond was not to live cheaply
nor to live dearly there, but to transact some private business with the
fewest obstacles; to be hindered from accomplishing which for want of a
little common sense, a little enterprise and business talent, appeared
not so sad as foolish.

I have always endeavored to acquire strict business habits; they are
indispensable to every man. If your trade is with the Celestial Empire,
then some small counting house on the coast, in some Salem harbor, will
be fixture enough. You will export such articles as the country affords,
purely native products, much ice and pine timber and a little granite,
always in native bottoms. These will be good ventures. To oversee all
the details yourself in person; to be at once pilot and captain, and
owner and underwriter; to buy and sell and keep the accounts; to
read every letter received, and write or read every letter sent; to
superintend the discharge of imports night and day; to be upon many
parts of the coast almost at the same time--often the richest freight
will be discharged upon a Jersey shore;--to be your own telegraph,
unweariedly sweeping the horizon, speaking all passing vessels bound
coastwise; to keep up a steady despatch of commodities, for the supply
of such a distant and exorbitant market; to keep yourself informed of
the state of the markets, prospects of war and peace everywhere, and
anticipate the tendencies of trade and civilization--taking advantage
of the results of all exploring expeditions, using new passages and all
improvements in navigation;--charts to be studied, the position of reefs
and new lights and buoys to be ascertained, and ever, and ever, the
logarithmic tables to be corrected, for by the error of some calculator
the vessel often splits upon a rock that should have reached a friendly
pier--there is the untold fate of La Prouse;--universal science to
be kept pace with, studying the lives of all great discoverers and
navigators, great adventurers and merchants, from Hanno and the
Phoenicians down to our day; in fine, account of stock to be taken from
time to time, to know how you stand. It is a labor to task the faculties
of a man--such problems of profit and loss, of interest, of tare and
tret, and gauging of all kinds in it, as demand a universal knowledge.

I have thought that Walden Pond would be a good place for business,
not solely on account of the railroad and the ice trade; it offers
advantages which it may not be good policy to divulge; it is a good port
and a good foundation. No Neva marshes to be filled; though you must
everywhere build on piles of your own driving. It is said that a
flood-tide, with a westerly wind, and ice in the Neva, would sweep St.
Petersburg from the face of the earth.

As this business was to be entered into without the usual capital, it
may not be easy to conjecture where those means, that will still be
indispensable to every such undertaking, were to be obtained. As for
Clothing, to come at once to the practical part of the question, perhaps
we are led oftener by the love of novelty and a regard for the opinions
of men, in procuring it, than by a true utility. Let him who has work to
do recollect that the object of clothing is, first, to retain the vital
heat, and secondly, in this state of society, to cover nakedness, and
he may judge how much of any necessary or important work may be
accomplished without adding to his wardrobe. Kings and queens who wear
a suit but once, though made by some tailor or dressmaker to their
majesties, cannot know the comfort of wearing a suit that fits. They are
no better than wooden horses to hang the clean clothes on. Every day our
garments become more assimilated to ourselves, receiving the impress of
the wearer's character, until we hesitate to lay them aside without such
delay and medical appliances and some such solemnity even as our bodies.
No man ever stood the lower in my estimation for having a patch in his
clothes; yet I am sure that there is greater anxiety, commonly, to have
fashionable, or at least clean and unpatched clothes, than to have a
sound conscience. But even if the rent is not mended, perhaps the worst
vice betrayed is improvidence. I sometimes try my acquaintances by such
tests as this--Who could wear a patch, or two extra seams only, over
the knee? Most behave as if they believed that their prospects for life
would be ruined if they should do it. It would be easier for them to
hobble to town with a broken leg than with a broken pantaloon. Often if
an accident happens to a gentleman's legs, they can be mended; but if a
similar accident happens to the legs of his pantaloons, there is no help
for it; for he considers, not what is truly respectable, but what is
respected. We know but few men, a great many coats and breeches. Dress
a scarecrow in your last shift, you standing shiftless by, who would not
soonest salute the scarecrow? Passing a cornfield the other day, close
by a hat and coat on a stake, I recognized the owner of the farm. He was
only a little more weather-beaten than when I saw him last. I have
heard of a dog that barked at every stranger who approached his master's
premises with clothes on, but was easily quieted by a naked thief. It is
an interesting question how far men would retain their relative rank
if they were divested of their clothes. Could you, in such a case,
tell surely of any company of civilized men which belonged to the most
respected class? When Madam Pfeiffer, in her adventurous travels round
the world, from east to west, had got so near home as Asiatic Russia,
she says that she felt the necessity of wearing other than a travelling
dress, when she went to meet the authorities, for she "was now in a
civilized country, where... people are judged of by their clothes." Even
in our democratic New England towns the accidental possession of wealth,
and its manifestation in dress and equipage alone, obtain for the
possessor almost universal respect. But they yield such respect,
numerous as they are, are so far heathen, and need to have a missionary
sent to them. Beside, clothes introduced sewing, a kind of work which
you may call endless; a woman's dress, at least, is never done.

A man who has at length found something to do will not need to get a new
suit to do it in; for him the old will do, that has lain dusty in the
garret for an indeterminate period. Old shoes will serve a hero longer
than they have served his valet--if a hero ever has a valet--bare feet
are older than shoes, and he can make them do. Only they who go to
soirées and legislative balls must have new coats, coats to change as
often as the man changes in them. But if my jacket and trousers, my hat
and shoes, are fit to worship God in, they will do; will they not? Who
ever saw his old clothes--his old coat, actually worn out, resolved into
its primitive elements, so that it was not a deed of charity to bestow
it on some poor boy, by him perchance to be bestowed on some poorer
still, or shall we say richer, who could do with less? I say, beware of
all enterprises that require new clothes, and not rather a new wearer of
clothes. If there is not a new man, how can the new clothes be made to
fit? If you have any enterprise before you, try it in your old clothes.
All men want, not something to _do with_, but something to _do_, or rather
something to _be_. Perhaps we should never procure a new suit, however
ragged or dirty the old, until we have so conducted, so enterprised or
sailed in some way, that we feel like new men in the old, and that to
retain it would be like keeping new wine in old bottles. Our moulting
season, like that of the fowls, must be a crisis in our lives. The loon
retires to solitary ponds to spend it. Thus also the snake casts its
slough, and the caterpillar its wormy coat, by an internal industry
and expansion; for clothes are but our outmost cuticle and mortal
coil. Otherwise we shall be found sailing under false colors, and be
inevitably cashiered at last by our own opinion, as well as that of
mankind.

We don garment after garment, as if we grew like exogenous plants by
addition without. Our outside and often thin and fanciful clothes are
our epidermis, or false skin, which partakes not of our life, and may be
stripped off here and there without fatal injury; our thicker garments,
constantly worn, are our cellular integument, or cortex; but our shirts
are our liber, or true bark, which cannot be removed without girdling
and so destroying the man. I believe that all races at some seasons wear
something equivalent to the shirt. It is desirable that a man be clad
so simply that he can lay his hands on himself in the dark, and that he
live in all respects so compactly and preparedly that, if an enemy
take the town, he can, like the old philosopher, walk out the gate
empty-handed without anxiety. While one thick garment is, for most
purposes, as good as three thin ones, and cheap clothing can be obtained
at prices really to suit customers; while a thick coat can be bought for
five dollars, which will last as many years, thick pantaloons for two
dollars, cowhide boots for a dollar and a half a pair, a summer hat for
a quarter of a dollar, and a winter cap for sixty-two and a half cents,
or a better be made at home at a nominal cost, where is he so poor that,
clad in such a suit, of _his own earning_, there will not be found wise
men to do him reverence?

When I ask for a garment of a particular form, my tailoress tells me
gravely, "They do not make them so now," not emphasizing the "They" at
all, as if she quoted an authority as impersonal as the Fates, and I
find it difficult to get made what I want, simply because she cannot
believe that I mean what I say, that I am so rash. When I hear this
oracular sentence, I am for a moment absorbed in thought, emphasizing to
myself each word separately that I may come at the meaning of it, that I
may find out by what degree of consanguinity _They_ are related to _me_,
and what authority they may have in an affair which affects me so
nearly; and, finally, I am inclined to answer her with equal mystery,
and without any more emphasis of the "they"--"It is true, they did not
make them so recently, but they do now." Of what use this measuring of
me if she does not measure my character, but only the breadth of my
shoulders, as it were a peg to hang the coat on? We worship not the
Graces, nor the Parcae, but Fashion. She spins and weaves and cuts with
full authority. The head monkey at Paris puts on a traveller's cap, and
all the monkeys in America do the same. I sometimes despair of getting
anything quite simple and honest done in this world by the help of men.
They would have to be passed through a powerful press first, to squeeze
their old notions out of them, so that they would not soon get upon
their legs again; and then there would be some one in the company with a
maggot in his head, hatched from an egg deposited there nobody knows
when, for not even fire kills these things, and you would have lost your
labor. Nevertheless, we will not forget that some Egyptian wheat was
handed down to us by a mummy.

On the whole, I think that it cannot be maintained that dressing has in
this or any country risen to the dignity of an art. At present men make
shift to wear what they can get. Like shipwrecked sailors, they put on
what they can find on the beach, and at a little distance, whether of
space or time, laugh at each other's masquerade. Every generation laughs
at the old fashions, but follows religiously the new. We are amused at
beholding the costume of Henry VIII, or Queen Elizabeth, as much as if
it was that of the King and Queen of the Cannibal Islands. All costume
off a man is pitiful or grotesque. It is only the serious eye peering
from and the sincere life passed within it which restrain laughter and
consecrate the costume of any people. Let Harlequin be taken with a fit
of the colic and his trappings will have to serve that mood too. When
the soldier is hit by a cannonball, rags are as becoming as purple.

The childish and savage taste of men and women for new patterns keeps
how many shaking and squinting through kaleidoscopes that they may
discover the particular figure which this generation requires today. The
manufacturers have learned that this taste is merely whimsical. Of two
patterns which differ only by a few threads more or less of a particular
color, the one will be sold readily, the other lie on the shelf, though
it frequently happens that after the lapse of a season the latter
becomes the most fashionable. Comparatively, tattooing is not the
hideous custom which it is called. It is not barbarous merely because
the printing is skin-deep and unalterable.

I cannot believe that our factory system is the best mode by which men
may get clothing. The condition of the operatives is becoming every day
more like that of the English; and it cannot be wondered at, since,
as far as I have heard or observed, the principal object is, not
that mankind may be well and honestly clad, but, unquestionably, that
corporations may be enriched. In the long run men hit only what they aim
at. Therefore, though they should fail immediately, they had better aim
at something high.

As for a Shelter, I will not deny that this is now a necessary of
life, though there are instances of men having done without it for
long periods in colder countries than this. Samuel Laing says that "the
Laplander in his skin dress, and in a skin bag which he puts over his
head and shoulders, will sleep night after night on the snow... in a
degree of cold which would extinguish the life of one exposed to it in
any woollen clothing." He had seen them asleep thus. Yet he adds, "They
are not hardier than other people." But, probably, man did not live long
on the earth without discovering the convenience which there is in a
house, the domestic comforts, which phrase may have originally signified
the satisfactions of the house more than of the family; though these
must be extremely partial and occasional in those climates where the
house is associated in our thoughts with winter or the rainy season
chiefly, and two thirds of the year, except for a parasol, is
unnecessary. In our climate, in the summer, it was formerly almost
solely a covering at night. In the Indian gazettes a wigwam was the
symbol of a day's march, and a row of them cut or painted on the bark of
a tree signified that so many times they had camped. Man was not made
so large limbed and robust but that he must seek to narrow his world
and wall in a space such as fitted him. He was at first bare and out of
doors; but though this was pleasant enough in serene and warm weather,
by daylight, the rainy season and the winter, to say nothing of the
torrid sun, would perhaps have nipped his race in the bud if he had not
made haste to clothe himself with the shelter of a house. Adam and Eve,
according to the fable, wore the bower before other clothes. Man wanted
a home, a place of warmth, or comfort, first of warmth, then the warmth
of the affections.

We may imagine a time when, in the infancy of the human race, some
enterprising mortal crept into a hollow in a rock for shelter. Every
child begins the world again, to some extent, and loves to stay
outdoors, even in wet and cold. It plays house, as well as horse, having
an instinct for it. Who does not remember the interest with which, when
young, he looked at shelving rocks, or any approach to a cave? It was
the natural yearning of that portion, any portion of our most primitive
ancestor which still survived in us. From the cave we have advanced to
roofs of palm leaves, of bark and boughs, of linen woven and stretched,
of grass and straw, of boards and shingles, of stones and tiles. At
last, we know not what it is to live in the open air, and our lives are
domestic in more senses than we think. From the hearth the field is a
great distance. It would be well, perhaps, if we were to spend more of
our days and nights without any obstruction between us and the celestial
bodies, if the poet did not speak so much from under a roof, or the
saint dwell there so long. Birds do not sing in caves, nor do doves
cherish their innocence in dovecots.

However, if one designs to construct a dwelling-house, it behooves him
to exercise a little Yankee shrewdness, lest after all he find himself
in a workhouse, a labyrinth without a clue, a museum, an almshouse, a
prison, or a splendid mausoleum instead. Consider first how slight a
shelter is absolutely necessary. I have seen Penobscot Indians, in this
town, living in tents of thin cotton cloth, while the snow was nearly a
foot deep around them, and I thought that they would be glad to have
it deeper to keep out the wind. Formerly, when how to get my living
honestly, with freedom left for my proper pursuits, was a question
which vexed me even more than it does now, for unfortunately I am become
somewhat callous, I used to see a large box by the railroad, six feet
long by three wide, in which the laborers locked up their tools at
night; and it suggested to me that every man who was hard pushed might
get such a one for a dollar, and, having bored a few auger holes in it,
to admit the air at least, get into it when it rained and at night, and
hook down the lid, and so have freedom in his love, and in his soul
be free. This did not appear the worst, nor by any means a despicable
alternative. You could sit up as late as you pleased, and, whenever you
got up, go abroad without any landlord or house-lord dogging you for
rent. Many a man is harassed to death to pay the rent of a larger and
more luxurious box who would not have frozen to death in such a box as
this. I am far from jesting. Economy is a subject which admits of being
treated with levity, but it cannot so be disposed of. A comfortable
house for a rude and hardy race, that lived mostly out of doors, was
once made here almost entirely of such materials as Nature furnished
ready to their hands. Gookin, who was superintendent of the Indians
subject to the Massachusetts Colony, writing in 1674, says, "The best
of their houses are covered very neatly, tight and warm, with barks of
trees, slipped from their bodies at those seasons when the sap is up,
and made into great flakes, with pressure of weighty timber, when they
are green.... The meaner sort are covered with mats which they make of
a kind of bulrush, and are also indifferently tight and warm, but not
so good as the former.... Some I have seen, sixty or a hundred feet
long and thirty feet broad.... I have often lodged in their wigwams, and
found them as warm as the best English houses." He adds that they were
commonly carpeted and lined within with well-wrought embroidered mats,
and were furnished with various utensils. The Indians had advanced so
far as to regulate the effect of the wind by a mat suspended over the
hole in the roof and moved by a string. Such a lodge was in the first
instance constructed in a day or two at most, and taken down and put up
in a few hours; and every family owned one, or its apartment in one.

In the savage state every family owns a shelter as good as the best, and
sufficient for its coarser and simpler wants; but I think that I speak
within bounds when I say that, though the birds of the air have their
nests, and the foxes their holes, and the savages their wigwams, in
modern civilized society not more than one half the families own a
shelter. In the large towns and cities, where civilization especially
prevails, the number of those who own a shelter is a very small fraction
of the whole. The rest pay an annual tax for this outside garment of
all, become indispensable summer and winter, which would buy a village
of Indian wigwams, but now helps to keep them poor as long as they live.
I do not mean to insist here on the disadvantage of hiring compared with
owning, but it is evident that the savage owns his shelter because it
costs so little, while the civilized man hires his commonly because he
cannot afford to own it; nor can he, in the long run, any better afford
to hire. But, answers one, by merely paying this tax, the poor civilized
man secures an abode which is a palace compared with the savage's. An
annual rent of from twenty-five to a hundred dollars (these are the
country rates) entitles him to the benefit of the improvements
of centuries, spacious apartments, clean paint and paper, Rumford
fire-place, back plastering, Venetian blinds, copper pump, spring lock,
a commodious cellar, and many other things. But how happens it that he
who is said to enjoy these things is so commonly a poor civilized
man, while the savage, who has them not, is rich as a savage? If it
is asserted that civilization is a real advance in the condition
of man--and I think that it is, though only the wise improve their
advantages--it must be shown that it has produced better dwellings
without making them more costly; and the cost of a thing is the amount
of what I will call life which is required to be exchanged for it,
immediately or in the long run. An average house in this neighborhood
costs perhaps eight hundred dollars, and to lay up this sum will take
from ten to fifteen years of the laborer's life, even if he is not
encumbered with a family--estimating the pecuniary value of every man's
labor at one dollar a day, for if some receive more, others receive
less;--so that he must have spent more than half his life commonly
before his wigwam will be earned. If we suppose him to pay a rent
instead, this is but a doubtful choice of evils. Would the savage have
been wise to exchange his wigwam for a palace on these terms?

It may be guessed that I reduce almost the whole advantage of holding
this superfluous property as a fund in store against the future, so
far as the individual is concerned, mainly to the defraying of
funeral expenses. But perhaps a man is not required to bury himself.
Nevertheless this points to an important distinction between the
civilized man and the savage; and, no doubt, they have designs on us for
our benefit, in making the life of a civilized people an _institution_, in
which the life of the individual is to a great extent absorbed, in order
to preserve and perfect that of the race. But I wish to show at what a
sacrifice this advantage is at present obtained, and to suggest that we
may possibly so live as to secure all the advantage without suffering
any of the disadvantage. What mean ye by saying that the poor ye have
always with you, or that the fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the
children's teeth are set on edge?

"As I live, saith the Lord God, ye shall not have occasion any more to
use this proverb in Israel.

"Behold all souls are mine; as the soul of the father, so also the soul
of the son is mine: the soul that sinneth, it shall die."

When I consider my neighbors, the farmers of Concord, who are at least
as well off as the other classes, I find that for the most part they
have been toiling twenty, thirty, or forty years, that they may become
the real owners of their farms, which commonly they have inherited with
encumbrances, or else bought with hired money--and we may regard one
third of that toil as the cost of their houses--but commonly they have
not paid for them yet. It is true, the encumbrances sometimes outweigh
the value of the farm, so that the farm itself becomes one great
encumbrance, and still a man is found to inherit it, being well
acquainted with it, as he says. On applying to the assessors, I am
surprised to learn that they cannot at once name a dozen in the town who
own their farms free and clear. If you would know the history of these
homesteads, inquire at the bank where they are mortgaged. The man who
has actually paid for his farm with labor on it is so rare that every
neighbor can point to him. I doubt if there are three such men in
Concord. What has been said of the merchants, that a very large
majority, even ninety-seven in a hundred, are sure to fail, is equally
true of the farmers. With regard to the merchants, however, one of them
says pertinently that a great part of their failures are not genuine
pecuniary failures, but merely failures to fulfil their engagements,
because it is inconvenient; that is, it is the moral character that
breaks down. But this puts an infinitely worse face on the matter, and
suggests, beside, that probably not even the other three succeed in
saving their souls, but are perchance bankrupt in a worse sense than
they who fail honestly. Bankruptcy and repudiation are the springboards
from which much of our civilization vaults and turns its somersets, but
the savage stands on the unelastic plank of famine. Yet the Middlesex
Cattle Show goes off here with _éclat_ annually, as if all the joints of
the agricultural machine were suent.

The farmer is endeavoring to solve the problem of a livelihood by a
formula more complicated than the problem itself. To get his shoestrings
he speculates in herds of cattle. With consummate skill he has set his
trap with a hair spring to catch comfort and independence, and then, as
he turned away, got his own leg into it. This is the reason he is poor;
and for a similar reason we are all poor in respect to a thousand savage
comforts, though surrounded by luxuries. As Chapman sings,

             "The false society of men--
                --for earthly greatness
              All heavenly comforts rarefies to air."

And when the farmer has got his house, he may not be the richer but the
poorer for it, and it be the house that has got him. As I understand
it, that was a valid objection urged by Momus against the house which
Minerva made, that she "had not made it movable, by which means a bad
neighborhood might be avoided"; and it may still be urged, for our
houses are such unwieldy property that we are often imprisoned rather
than housed in them; and the bad neighborhood to be avoided is our own
scurvy selves. I know one or two families, at least, in this town, who,
for nearly a generation, have been wishing to sell their houses in
the outskirts and move into the village, but have not been able to
accomplish it, and only death will set them free.

Granted that the majority are able at last either to own or hire the
modern house with all its improvements. While civilization has been
improving our houses, it has not equally improved the men who are to
inhabit them. It has created palaces, but it was not so easy to create
noblemen and kings. And _if the civilized man's pursuits are no worthier
than the savage's, if he is employed the greater part of his life in
obtaining gross necessaries and comforts merely, why should he have a
better dwelling than the former?_

But how do the poor minority fare? Perhaps it will be found that just in
proportion as some have been placed in outward circumstances above the
savage, others have been degraded below him. The luxury of one class
is counterbalanced by the indigence of another. On the one side is the
palace, on the other are the almshouse and "silent poor." The myriads
who built the pyramids to be the tombs of the Pharaohs were fed on
garlic, and it may be were not decently buried themselves. The mason who
finishes the cornice of the palace returns at night perchance to a hut
not so good as a wigwam. It is a mistake to suppose that, in a country
where the usual evidences of civilization exist, the condition of a very
large body of the inhabitants may not be as degraded as that of savages.
I refer to the degraded poor, not now to the degraded rich. To know this
I should not need to look farther than to the shanties which everywhere
border our railroads, that last improvement in civilization; where I see
in my daily walks human beings living in sties, and all winter with an
open door, for the sake of light, without any visible, often imaginable,
wood-pile, and the forms of both old and young are permanently
contracted by the long habit of shrinking from cold and misery, and the
development of all their limbs and faculties is checked. It certainly
is fair to look at that class by whose labor the works which distinguish
this generation are accomplished. Such too, to a greater or less extent,
is the condition of the operatives of every denomination in England,
which is the great workhouse of the world. Or I could refer you to
Ireland, which is marked as one of the white or enlightened spots on the
map. Contrast the physical condition of the Irish with that of the North
American Indian, or the South Sea Islander, or any other savage race
before it was degraded by contact with the civilized man. Yet I have no
doubt that that people's rulers are as wise as the average of civilized
rulers. Their condition only proves what squalidness may consist with
civilization. I hardly need refer now to the laborers in our Southern
States who produce the staple exports of this country, and are
themselves a staple production of the South. But to confine myself to
those who are said to be in _moderate_ circumstances.

Most men appear never to have considered what a house is, and are
actually though needlessly poor all their lives because they think that
they must have such a one as their neighbors have. As if one were
to wear any sort of coat which the tailor might cut out for him, or,
gradually leaving off palm-leaf hat or cap of woodchuck skin, complain
of hard times because he could not afford to buy him a crown! It is
possible to invent a house still more convenient and luxurious than we
have, which yet all would admit that man could not afford to pay for.
Shall we always study to obtain more of these things, and not sometimes
to be content with less? Shall the respectable citizen thus gravely
teach, by precept and example, the necessity of the young man's
providing a certain number of superfluous glow-shoes, and umbrellas, and
empty guest chambers for empty guests, before he dies? Why should not
our furniture be as simple as the Arab's or the Indian's? When I think
of the benefactors of the race, whom we have apotheosized as messengers
from heaven, bearers of divine gifts to man, I do not see in my mind any
retinue at their heels, any carload of fashionable furniture. Or what
if I were to allow--would it not be a singular allowance?--that our
furniture should be more complex than the Arab's, in proportion as we
are morally and intellectually his superiors! At present our houses are
cluttered and defiled with it, and a good housewife would sweep out
the greater part into the dust hole, and not leave her morning's work
undone. Morning work! By the blushes of Aurora and the music of Memnon,
what should be man's _morning work_ in this world? I had three pieces of
limestone on my desk, but I was terrified to find that they required to
be dusted daily, when the furniture of my mind was all undusted still,
and threw them out the window in disgust. How, then, could I have a
furnished house? I would rather sit in the open air, for no dust gathers
on the grass, unless where man has broken ground.

It is the luxurious and dissipated who set the fashions which the herd
so diligently follow. The traveller who stops at the best houses, so
called, soon discovers this, for the publicans presume him to be a
Sardanapalus, and if he resigned himself to their tender mercies he
would soon be completely emasculated. I think that in the railroad car
we are inclined to spend more on luxury than on safety and convenience,
and it threatens without attaining these to become no better than a
modern drawing-room, with its divans, and ottomans, and sun-shades,
and a hundred other oriental things, which we are taking west with us,
invented for the ladies of the harem and the effeminate natives of the
Celestial Empire, which Jonathan should be ashamed to know the names
of. I would rather sit on a pumpkin and have it all to myself than be
crowded on a velvet cushion. I would rather ride on earth in an ox
cart, with a free circulation, than go to heaven in the fancy car of an
excursion train and breathe a _malaria_ all the way.

The very simplicity and nakedness of man's life in the primitive ages
imply this advantage, at least, that they left him still but a sojourner
in nature. When he was refreshed with food and sleep, he contemplated
his journey again. He dwelt, as it were, in a tent in this world, and
was either threading the valleys, or crossing the plains, or climbing
the mountain-tops. But lo! men have become the tools of their tools. The
man who independently plucked the fruits when he was hungry is become a
farmer; and he who stood under a tree for shelter, a housekeeper. We
now no longer camp as for a night, but have settled down on earth and
forgotten heaven. We have adopted Christianity merely as an improved
method of _agri_-culture. We have built for this world a family mansion,
and for the next a family tomb. The best works of art are the expression
of man's struggle to free himself from this condition, but the effect
of our art is merely to make this low state comfortable and that higher
state to be forgotten. There is actually no place in this village for a
work of _fine_ art, if any had come down to us, to stand, for our lives,
our houses and streets, furnish no proper pedestal for it. There is not
a nail to hang a picture on, nor a shelf to receive the bust of a hero
or a saint. When I consider how our houses are built and paid for, or
not paid for, and their internal economy managed and sustained, I wonder
that the floor does not give way under the visitor while he is admiring
the gewgaws upon the mantelpiece, and let him through into the cellar,
to some solid and honest though earthy foundation. I cannot but perceive
that this so-called rich and refined life is a thing jumped at, and I
do not get on in the enjoyment of the fine arts which adorn it, my
attention being wholly occupied with the jump; for I remember that the
greatest genuine leap, due to human muscles alone, on record, is that of
certain wandering Arabs, who are said to have cleared twenty-five feet
on level ground. Without factitious support, man is sure to come to
earth again beyond that distance. The first question which I am tempted
to put to the proprietor of such great impropriety is, Who bolsters
you? Are you one of the ninety-seven who fail, or the three who succeed?
Answer me these questions, and then perhaps I may look at your bawbles
and find them ornamental. The cart before the horse is neither beautiful
nor useful. Before we can adorn our houses with beautiful objects the
walls must be stripped, and our lives must be stripped, and beautiful
housekeeping and beautiful living be laid for a foundation: now, a taste
for the beautiful is most cultivated out of doors, where there is no
house and no housekeeper.

Old Johnson, in his "Wonder-Working Providence," speaking of the first
settlers of this town, with whom he was contemporary, tells us that
"they burrow themselves in the earth for their first shelter under some
hillside, and, casting the soil aloft upon timber, they make a smoky
fire against the earth, at the highest side." They did not "provide them
houses," says he, "till the earth, by the Lord's blessing, brought forth
bread to feed them," and the first year's crop was so light that
"they were forced to cut their bread very thin for a long season." The
secretary of the Province of New Netherland, writing in Dutch, in 1650,
for the information of those who wished to take up land there, states
more particularly that "those in New Netherland, and especially in New
England, who have no means to build farmhouses at first according to
their wishes, dig a square pit in the ground, cellar fashion, six or
seven feet deep, as long and as broad as they think proper, case the
earth inside with wood all round the wall, and line the wood with the
bark of trees or something else to prevent the caving in of the earth;
floor this cellar with plank, and wainscot it overhead for a ceiling,
raise a roof of spars clear up, and cover the spars with bark or green
sods, so that they can live dry and warm in these houses with their
entire families for two, three, and four years, it being understood that
partitions are run through those cellars which are adapted to the size
of the family. The wealthy and principal men in New England, in the
beginning of the colonies, commenced their first dwelling-houses in
this fashion for two reasons: firstly, in order not to waste time in
building, and not to want food the next season; secondly, in order not
to discourage poor laboring people whom they brought over in numbers
from Fatherland. In the course of three or four years, when the country
became adapted to agriculture, they built themselves handsome houses,
spending on them several thousands."

In this course which our ancestors took there was a show of prudence
at least, as if their principle were to satisfy the more pressing wants
first. But are the more pressing wants satisfied now? When I think of
acquiring for myself one of our luxurious dwellings, I am deterred, for,
so to speak, the country is not yet adapted to _human_ culture, and we are
still forced to cut our _spiritual_ bread far thinner than our forefathers
did their wheaten. Not that all architectural ornament is to be
neglected even in the rudest periods; but let our houses first be
lined with beauty, where they come in contact with our lives, like the
tenement of the shellfish, and not overlaid with it. But, alas! I have
been inside one or two of them, and know what they are lined with.

Though we are not so degenerate but that we might possibly live in a
cave or a wigwam or wear skins today, it certainly is better to accept
the advantages, though so dearly bought, which the invention and
industry of mankind offer. In such a neighborhood as this, boards and
shingles, lime and bricks, are cheaper and more easily obtained than
suitable caves, or whole logs, or bark in sufficient quantities, or
even well-tempered clay or flat stones. I speak understandingly on this
subject, for I have made myself acquainted with it both theoretically
and practically. With a little more wit we might use these materials so
as to become richer than the richest now are, and make our civilization
a blessing. The civilized man is a more experienced and wiser savage.
But to make haste to my own experiment.

Near the end of March, 1845, I borrowed an axe and went down to the
woods by Walden Pond, nearest to where I intended to build my house, and
began to cut down some tall, arrowy white pines, still in their youth,
for timber. It is difficult to begin without borrowing, but perhaps it
is the most generous course thus to permit your fellow-men to have an
interest in your enterprise. The owner of the axe, as he released his
hold on it, said that it was the apple of his eye; but I returned it
sharper than I received it. It was a pleasant hillside where I worked,
covered with pine woods, through which I looked out on the pond, and a
small open field in the woods where pines and hickories were springing
up. The ice in the pond was not yet dissolved, though there were some
open spaces, and it was all dark-colored and saturated with water. There
were some slight flurries of snow during the days that I worked there;
but for the most part when I came out on to the railroad, on my
way home, its yellow sand heap stretched away gleaming in the hazy
atmosphere, and the rails shone in the spring sun, and I heard the lark
and pewee and other birds already come to commence another year with us.
They were pleasant spring days, in which the winter of man's discontent
was thawing as well as the earth, and the life that had lain torpid
began to stretch itself. One day, when my axe had come off and I had cut
a green hickory for a wedge, driving it with a stone, and had placed the
whole to soak in a pond-hole in order to swell the wood, I saw a striped
snake run into the water, and he lay on the bottom, apparently without
inconvenience, as long as I stayed there, or more than a quarter of
an hour; perhaps because he had not yet fairly come out of the torpid
state. It appeared to me that for a like reason men remain in their
present low and primitive condition; but if they should feel the
influence of the spring of springs arousing them, they would of
necessity rise to a higher and more ethereal life. I had previously seen
the snakes in frosty mornings in my path with portions of their bodies
still numb and inflexible, waiting for the sun to thaw them. On the 1st
of April it rained and melted the ice, and in the early part of the day,
which was very foggy, I heard a stray goose groping about over the pond
and cackling as if lost, or like the spirit of the fog.

So I went on for some days cutting and hewing timber, and also studs
and rafters, all with my narrow axe, not having many communicable or
scholar-like thoughts, singing to myself,--

                  Men say they know many things;
                  But lo! they have taken wings--
                  The arts and sciences,
                  And a thousand appliances;
                  The wind that blows
                  Is all that any body knows.

I hewed the main timbers six inches square, most of the studs on two
sides only, and the rafters and floor timbers on one side, leaving
the rest of the bark on, so that they were just as straight and much
stronger than sawed ones. Each stick was carefully mortised or tenoned
by its stump, for I had borrowed other tools by this time. My days in
the woods were not very long ones; yet I usually carried my dinner of
bread and butter, and read the newspaper in which it was wrapped, at
noon, sitting amid the green pine boughs which I had cut off, and to my
bread was imparted some of their fragrance, for my hands were covered
with a thick coat of pitch. Before I had done I was more the friend than
the foe of the pine tree, though I had cut down some of them, having
become better acquainted with it. Sometimes a rambler in the wood was
attracted by the sound of my axe, and we chatted pleasantly over the
chips which I had made.

By the middle of April, for I made no haste in my work, but rather made
the most of it, my house was framed and ready for the raising. I had
already bought the shanty of James Collins, an Irishman who worked on
the Fitchburg Railroad, for boards. James Collins' shanty was considered
an uncommonly fine one. When I called to see it he was not at home. I
walked about the outside, at first unobserved from within, the window
was so deep and high. It was of small dimensions, with a peaked cottage
roof, and not much else to be seen, the dirt being raised five feet all
around as if it were a compost heap. The roof was the soundest part,
though a good deal warped and made brittle by the sun. Doorsill there
was none, but a perennial passage for the hens under the door board.
Mrs. C. came to the door and asked me to view it from the inside. The
hens were driven in by my approach. It was dark, and had a dirt floor
for the most part, dank, clammy, and aguish, only here a board and there
a board which would not bear removal. She lighted a lamp to show me the
inside of the roof and the walls, and also that the board floor extended
under the bed, warning me not to step into the cellar, a sort of dust
hole two feet deep. In her own words, they were "good boards overhead,
good boards all around, and a good window"--of two whole squares
originally, only the cat had passed out that way lately. There was a
stove, a bed, and a place to sit, an infant in the house where it
was born, a silk parasol, gilt-framed looking-glass, and a patent new
coffee-mill nailed to an oak sapling, all told. The bargain was soon
concluded, for James had in the meanwhile returned. I to pay four
dollars and twenty-five cents tonight, he to vacate at five tomorrow
morning, selling to nobody else meanwhile: I to take possession at
six. It were well, he said, to be there early, and anticipate certain
indistinct but wholly unjust claims on the score of ground rent and
fuel. This he assured me was the only encumbrance. At six I passed
him and his family on the road. One large bundle held their all--bed,
coffee-mill, looking-glass, hens--all but the cat; she took to the woods
and became a wild cat, and, as I learned afterward, trod in a trap set
for woodchucks, and so became a dead cat at last.

I took down this dwelling the same morning, drawing the nails, and
removed it to the pond-side by small cartloads, spreading the boards
on the grass there to bleach and warp back again in the sun. One early
thrush gave me a note or two as I drove along the woodland path. I
was informed treacherously by a young Patrick that neighbor Seeley,
an Irishman, in the intervals of the carting, transferred the still
tolerable, straight, and drivable nails, staples, and spikes to his
pocket, and then stood when I came back to pass the time of day, and
look freshly up, unconcerned, with spring thoughts, at the devastation;
there being a dearth of work, as he said. He was there to represent
spectatordom, and help make this seemingly insignificant event one with
the removal of the gods of Troy.

I dug my cellar in the side of a hill sloping to the south, where
a woodchuck had formerly dug his burrow, down through sumach and
blackberry roots, and the lowest stain of vegetation, six feet square
by seven deep, to a fine sand where potatoes would not freeze in any
winter. The sides were left shelving, and not stoned; but the sun having
never shone on them, the sand still keeps its place. It was but two
hours' work. I took particular pleasure in this breaking of ground,
for in almost all latitudes men dig into the earth for an equable
temperature. Under the most splendid house in the city is still to be
found the cellar where they store their roots as of old, and long after
the superstructure has disappeared posterity remark its dent in the
earth. The house is still but a sort of porch at the entrance of a
burrow.

At length, in the beginning of May, with the help of some of my
acquaintances, rather to improve so good an occasion for neighborliness
than from any necessity, I set up the frame of my house. No man was ever
more honored in the character of his raisers than I. They are destined,
I trust, to assist at the raising of loftier structures one day. I began
to occupy my house on the 4th of July, as soon as it was boarded and
roofed, for the boards were carefully feather-edged and lapped, so that
it was perfectly impervious to rain, but before boarding I laid the
foundation of a chimney at one end, bringing two cartloads of stones up
the hill from the pond in my arms. I built the chimney after my hoeing
in the fall, before a fire became necessary for warmth, doing my cooking
in the meanwhile out of doors on the ground, early in the morning: which
mode I still think is in some respects more convenient and agreeable
than the usual one. When it stormed before my bread was baked, I fixed
a few boards over the fire, and sat under them to watch my loaf, and
passed some pleasant hours in that way. In those days, when my hands
were much employed, I read but little, but the least scraps of paper
which lay on the ground, my holder, or tablecloth, afforded me as much
entertainment, in fact answered the same purpose as the Iliad.

       *       *       *       *       *

It would be worth the while to build still more deliberately than I did,
considering, for instance, what foundation a door, a window, a cellar,
a garret, have in the nature of man, and perchance never raising any
superstructure until we found a better reason for it than our temporal
necessities even. There is some of the same fitness in a man's building
his own house that there is in a bird's building its own nest. Who
knows but if men constructed their dwellings with their own hands, and
provided food for themselves and families simply and honestly enough,
the poetic faculty would be universally developed, as birds universally
sing when they are so engaged? But alas! we do like cowbirds and
cuckoos, which lay their eggs in nests which other birds have built, and
cheer no traveller with their chattering and unmusical notes. Shall we
forever resign the pleasure of construction to the carpenter? What does
architecture amount to in the experience of the mass of men? I never
in all my walks came across a man engaged in so simple and natural an
occupation as building his house. We belong to the community. It is
not the tailor alone who is the ninth part of a man; it is as much the
preacher, and the merchant, and the farmer. Where is this division of
labor to end? and what object does it finally serve? No doubt another
_may_ also think for me; but it is not therefore desirable that he should
do so to the exclusion of my thinking for myself.

True, there are architects so called in this country, and I have
heard of one at least possessed with the idea of making architectural
ornaments have a core of truth, a necessity, and hence a beauty, as if
it were a revelation to him. All very well perhaps from his point
of view, but only a little better than the common dilettantism. A
sentimental reformer in architecture, he began at the cornice, not
at the foundation. It was only how to put a core of truth within the
ornaments, that every sugarplum, in fact, might have an almond or
caraway seed in it--though I hold that almonds are most wholesome
without the sugar--and not how the inhabitant, the indweller, might
build truly within and without, and let the ornaments take care of
themselves. What reasonable man ever supposed that ornaments were
something outward and in the skin merely--that the tortoise got his
spotted shell, or the shell-fish its mother-o'-pearl tints, by such a
contract as the inhabitants of Broadway their Trinity Church? But a man
has no more to do with the style of architecture of his house than a
tortoise with that of its shell: nor need the soldier be so idle as to
try to paint the precise color of his virtue on his standard. The enemy
will find it out. He may turn pale when the trial comes. This man seemed
to me to lean over the cornice, and timidly whisper his half truth
to the rude occupants who really knew it better than he. What of
architectural beauty I now see, I know has gradually grown from within
outward, out of the necessities and character of the indweller, who is
the only builder--out of some unconscious truthfulness, and nobleness,
without ever a thought for the appearance and whatever additional beauty
of this kind is destined to be produced will be preceded by a like
unconscious beauty of life. The most interesting dwellings in this
country, as the painter knows, are the most unpretending, humble
log huts and cottages of the poor commonly; it is the life of the
inhabitants whose shells they are, and not any peculiarity in their
surfaces merely, which makes them picturesque; and equally interesting
will be the citizen's suburban box, when his life shall be as simple and
as agreeable to the imagination, and there is as little straining after
effect in the style of his dwelling. A great proportion of architectural
ornaments are literally hollow, and a September gale would strip them
off, like borrowed plumes, without injury to the substantials. They can
do without architecture who have no olives nor wines in the cellar. What
if an equal ado were made about the ornaments of style in literature,
and the architects of our bibles spent as much time about their cornices
as the architects of our churches do? So are made the _belles-lettres_ and
the _beaux-arts_ and their professors. Much it concerns a man, forsooth,
how a few sticks are slanted over him or under him, and what colors
are daubed upon his box. It would signify somewhat, if, in any earnest
sense, he slanted them and daubed it; but the spirit having departed out
of the tenant, it is of a piece with constructing his own coffin--the
architecture of the grave--and "carpenter" is but another name for
"coffin-maker." One man says, in his despair or indifference to life,
take up a handful of the earth at your feet, and paint your house that
color. Is he thinking of his last and narrow house? Toss up a copper for
it as well. What an abundance of leisure he must have! Why do you take
up a handful of dirt? Better paint your house your own complexion; let
it turn pale or blush for you. An enterprise to improve the style of
cottage architecture! When you have got my ornaments ready, I will wear
them.

Before winter I built a chimney, and shingled the sides of my house,
which were already impervious to rain, with imperfect and sappy shingles
made of the first slice of the log, whose edges I was obliged to
straighten with a plane.

I have thus a tight shingled and plastered house, ten feet wide by
fifteen long, and eight-feet posts, with a garret and a closet, a large
window on each side, two trap doors, one door at the end, and a brick
fireplace opposite. The exact cost of my house, paying the usual price
for such materials as I used, but not counting the work, all of which
was done by myself, was as follows; and I give the details because very
few are able to tell exactly what their houses cost, and fewer still, if
any, the separate cost of the various materials which compose them:--

    Boards.......................... $ 8.03-1/2, mostly shanty boards.
    Refuse shingles for roof sides...  4.00
    Laths............................  1.25
    Two second-hand windows
       with glass....................  2.43
    One thousand old brick...........  4.00
    Two casks of lime................  2.40  That was high.
    Hair.............................  0.31  More than I needed.
    Mantle-tree iron.................  0.15
    Nails............................  3.90
    Hinges and screws................  0.14
    Latch............................  0.10
    Chalk............................  0.01
    Transportation...................  1.40  I carried a good part
                                     -------- on my back.
        In all...................... $28.12-1/2

These are all the materials, excepting the timber, stones, and sand,
which I claimed by squatter's right. I have also a small woodshed
adjoining, made chiefly of the stuff which was left after building the
house.

I intend to build me a house which will surpass any on the main street
in Concord in grandeur and luxury, as soon as it pleases me as much and
will cost me no more than my present one.

I thus found that the student who wishes for a shelter can obtain one
for a lifetime at an expense not greater than the rent which he now pays
annually. If I seem to boast more than is becoming, my excuse is that
I brag for humanity rather than for myself; and my shortcomings and
inconsistencies do not affect the truth of my statement. Notwithstanding
much cant and hypocrisy--chaff which I find it difficult to separate
from my wheat, but for which I am as sorry as any man--I will breathe
freely and stretch myself in this respect, it is such a relief to both
the moral and physical system; and I am resolved that I will not through
humility become the devil's attorney. I will endeavor to speak a good
word for the truth. At Cambridge College the mere rent of a student's
room, which is only a little larger than my own, is thirty dollars each
year, though the corporation had the advantage of building thirty-two
side by side and under one roof, and the occupant suffers the
inconvenience of many and noisy neighbors, and perhaps a residence in
the fourth story. I cannot but think that if we had more true wisdom
in these respects, not only less education would be needed, because,
forsooth, more would already have been acquired, but the pecuniary
expense of getting an education would in a great measure vanish. Those
conveniences which the student requires at Cambridge or elsewhere cost
him or somebody else ten times as great a sacrifice of life as they
would with proper management on both sides. Those things for which
the most money is demanded are never the things which the student most
wants. Tuition, for instance, is an important item in the term bill,
while for the far more valuable education which he gets by associating
with the most cultivated of his contemporaries no charge is made. The
mode of founding a college is, commonly, to get up a subscription of
dollars and cents, and then, following blindly the principles of a
division of labor to its extreme--a principle which should never be
followed but with circumspection--to call in a contractor who makes this
a subject of speculation, and he employs Irishmen or other operatives
actually to lay the foundations, while the students that are to be
are said to be fitting themselves for it; and for these oversights
successive generations have to pay. I think that it would be better _than
this_, for the students, or those who desire to be benefited by it, even
to lay the foundation themselves. The student who secures his coveted
leisure and retirement by systematically shirking any labor necessary to
man obtains but an ignoble and unprofitable leisure, defrauding himself
of the experience which alone can make leisure fruitful. "But," says
one, "you do not mean that the students should go to work with their
hands instead of their heads?" I do not mean that exactly, but I mean
something which he might think a good deal like that; I mean that they
should not _play_ life, or _study_ it merely, while the community supports
them at this expensive game, but earnestly live it from beginning to
end. How could youths better learn to live than by at once trying the
experiment of living? Methinks this would exercise their minds as much
as mathematics. If I wished a boy to know something about the arts and
sciences, for instance, I would not pursue the common course, which
is merely to send him into the neighborhood of some professor, where
anything is professed and practised but the art of life;--to survey the
world through a telescope or a microscope, and never with his natural
eye; to study chemistry, and not learn how his bread is made, or
mechanics, and not learn how it is earned; to discover new satellites to
Neptune, and not detect the motes in his eyes, or to what vagabond he
is a satellite himself; or to be devoured by the monsters that swarm all
around him, while contemplating the monsters in a drop of vinegar. Which
would have advanced the most at the end of a month--the boy who had made
his own jackknife from the ore which he had dug and smelted, reading
as much as would be necessary for this--or the boy who had attended
the lectures on metallurgy at the Institute in the meanwhile, and had
received a Rodgers' penknife from his father? Which would be most likely
to cut his fingers?... To my astonishment I was informed on leaving
college that I had studied navigation!--why, if I had taken one turn
down the harbor I should have known more about it. Even the poor student
studies and is taught only _political_ economy, while that economy
of living which is synonymous with philosophy is not even sincerely
professed in our colleges. The consequence is, that while he is reading
Adam Smith, Ricardo, and Say, he runs his father in debt irretrievably.

As with our colleges, so with a hundred "modern improvements"; there
is an illusion about them; there is not always a positive advance. The
devil goes on exacting compound interest to the last for his early share
and numerous succeeding investments in them. Our inventions are wont to
be pretty toys, which distract our attention from serious things. They
are but improved means to an unimproved end, an end which it was already
but too easy to arrive at; as railroads lead to Boston or New York.
We are in great haste to construct a magnetic telegraph from Maine
to Texas; but Maine and Texas, it may be, have nothing important to
communicate. Either is in such a predicament as the man who was
earnest to be introduced to a distinguished deaf woman, but when he was
presented, and one end of her ear trumpet was put into his hand, had
nothing to say. As if the main object were to talk fast and not to talk
sensibly. We are eager to tunnel under the Atlantic and bring the Old
World some weeks nearer to the New; but perchance the first news that
will leak through into the broad, flapping American ear will be that the
Princess Adelaide has the whooping cough. After all, the man whose horse
trots a mile in a minute does not carry the most important messages;
he is not an evangelist, nor does he come round eating locusts and wild
honey. I doubt if Flying Childers ever carried a peck of corn to mill.

One says to me, "I wonder that you do not lay up money; you love to
travel; you might take the cars and go to Fitchburg today and see the
country." But I am wiser than that. I have learned that the swiftest
traveller is he that goes afoot. I say to my friend, Suppose we try
who will get there first. The distance is thirty miles; the fare ninety
cents. That is almost a day's wages. I remember when wages were sixty
cents a day for laborers on this very road. Well, I start now on foot,
and get there before night; I have travelled at that rate by the week
together. You will in the meanwhile have earned your fare, and arrive
there some time tomorrow, or possibly this evening, if you are lucky
enough to get a job in season. Instead of going to Fitchburg, you will
be working here the greater part of the day. And so, if the railroad
reached round the world, I think that I should keep ahead of you; and
as for seeing the country and getting experience of that kind, I should
have to cut your acquaintance altogether.

Such is the universal law, which no man can ever outwit, and with regard
to the railroad even we may say it is as broad as it is long. To make
a railroad round the world available to all mankind is equivalent to
grading the whole surface of the planet. Men have an indistinct notion
that if they keep up this activity of joint stocks and spades long
enough all will at length ride somewhere, in next to no time, and for
nothing; but though a crowd rushes to the depot, and the conductor
shouts "All aboard!" when the smoke is blown away and the vapor
condensed, it will be perceived that a few are riding, but the rest are
run over--and it will be called, and will be, "A melancholy accident."
No doubt they can ride at last who shall have earned their fare, that
is, if they survive so long, but they will probably have lost their
elasticity and desire to travel by that time. This spending of the
best part of one's life earning money in order to enjoy a questionable
liberty during the least valuable part of it reminds me of the
Englishman who went to India to make a fortune first, in order that he
might return to England and live the life of a poet. He should have gone
up garret at once. "What!" exclaim a million Irishmen starting up from
all the shanties in the land, "is not this railroad which we have built
a good thing?" Yes, I answer, comparatively good, that is, you might
have done worse; but I wish, as you are brothers of mine, that you could
have spent your time better than digging in this dirt.

       *       *       *       *       *

Before I finished my house, wishing to earn ten or twelve dollars by
some honest and agreeable method, in order to meet my unusual expenses,
I planted about two acres and a half of light and sandy soil near it
chiefly with beans, but also a small part with potatoes, corn, peas, and
turnips. The whole lot contains eleven acres, mostly growing up to pines
and hickories, and was sold the preceding season for eight dollars and
eight cents an acre. One farmer said that it was "good for nothing but
to raise cheeping squirrels on." I put no manure whatever on this
land, not being the owner, but merely a squatter, and not expecting to
cultivate so much again, and I did not quite hoe it all once. I got out
several cords of stumps in plowing, which supplied me with fuel for
a long time, and left small circles of virgin mould, easily
distinguishable through the summer by the greater luxuriance of the
beans there. The dead and for the most part unmerchantable wood behind
my house, and the driftwood from the pond, have supplied the remainder
of my fuel. I was obliged to hire a team and a man for the plowing,
though I held the plow myself. My farm outgoes for the first season
were, for implements, seed, work, etc., $14.72-1/2. The seed corn was given
me. This never costs anything to speak of, unless you plant more than
enough. I got twelve bushels of beans, and eighteen bushels of potatoes,
beside some peas and sweet corn. The yellow corn and turnips were too
late to come to anything. My whole income from the farm was

                                       $ 23.44
      Deducting the outgoes............  14.72-1/2
                                         --------
      There are left.................. $  8.71-1/2

beside produce consumed and on hand at the time this estimate was made
of the value of $4.50--the amount on hand much more than balancing a
little grass which I did not raise. All things considered, that is,
considering the importance of a man's soul and of today, notwithstanding
the short time occupied by my experiment, nay, partly even because of
its transient character, I believe that that was doing better than any
farmer in Concord did that year.

The next year I did better still, for I spaded up all the land which I
required, about a third of an acre, and I learned from the experience
of both years, not being in the least awed by many celebrated works on
husbandry, Arthur Young among the rest, that if one would live simply
and eat only the crop which he raised, and raise no more than he ate,
and not exchange it for an insufficient quantity of more luxurious and
expensive things, he would need to cultivate only a few rods of ground,
and that it would be cheaper to spade up that than to use oxen to plow
it, and to select a fresh spot from time to time than to manure the old,
and he could do all his necessary farm work as it were with his left
hand at odd hours in the summer; and thus he would not be tied to an ox,
or horse, or cow, or pig, as at present. I desire to speak impartially
on this point, and as one not interested in the success or failure of
the present economical and social arrangements. I was more independent
than any farmer in Concord, for I was not anchored to a house or farm,
but could follow the bent of my genius, which is a very crooked one,
every moment. Beside being better off than they already, if my house had
been burned or my crops had failed, I should have been nearly as well
off as before.

I am wont to think that men are not so much the keepers of herds as
herds are the keepers of men, the former are so much the freer. Men and
oxen exchange work; but if we consider necessary work only, the oxen
will be seen to have greatly the advantage, their farm is so much the
larger. Man does some of his part of the exchange work in his six weeks
of haying, and it is no boy's play. Certainly no nation that lived
simply in all respects, that is, no nation of philosophers, would commit
so great a blunder as to use the labor of animals. True, there never was
and is not likely soon to be a nation of philosophers, nor am I certain
it is desirable that there should be. However, _I_ should never have
broken a horse or bull and taken him to board for any work he might do
for me, for fear I should become a horseman or a herdsman merely; and if
society seems to be the gainer by so doing, are we certain that what is
one man's gain is not another's loss, and that the stable-boy has equal
cause with his master to be satisfied? Granted that some public works
would not have been constructed without this aid, and let man share the
glory of such with the ox and horse; does it follow that he could not
have accomplished works yet more worthy of himself in that case? When
men begin to do, not merely unnecessary or artistic, but luxurious and
idle work, with their assistance, it is inevitable that a few do all the
exchange work with the oxen, or, in other words, become the slaves of
the strongest. Man thus not only works for the animal within him, but,
for a symbol of this, he works for the animal without him. Though we
have many substantial houses of brick or stone, the prosperity of the
farmer is still measured by the degree to which the barn overshadows the
house. This town is said to have the largest houses for oxen, cows, and
horses hereabouts, and it is not behindhand in its public buildings; but
there are very few halls for free worship or free speech in this county.
It should not be by their architecture, but why not even by their power
of abstract thought, that nations should seek to commemorate themselves?
How much more admirable the Bhagvat-Geeta than all the ruins of the
East! Towers and temples are the luxury of princes. A simple and
independent mind does not toil at the bidding of any prince. Genius is
not a retainer to any emperor, nor is its material silver, or gold, or
marble, except to a trifling extent. To what end, pray, is so much stone
hammered? In Arcadia, when I was there, I did not see any hammering
stone. Nations are possessed with an insane ambition to perpetuate the
memory of themselves by the amount of hammered stone they leave. What if
equal pains were taken to smooth and polish their manners? One piece of
good sense would be more memorable than a monument as high as the moon.
I love better to see stones in place. The grandeur of Thebes was a
vulgar grandeur. More sensible is a rod of stone wall that bounds an
honest man's field than a hundred-gated Thebes that has wandered farther
from the true end of life. The religion and civilization which are
barbaric and heathenish build splendid temples; but what you might call
Christianity does not. Most of the stone a nation hammers goes toward
its tomb only. It buries itself alive. As for the Pyramids, there is
nothing to wonder at in them so much as the fact that so many men could
be found degraded enough to spend their lives constructing a tomb for
some ambitious booby, whom it would have been wiser and manlier to
have drowned in the Nile, and then given his body to the dogs. I might
possibly invent some excuse for them and him, but I have no time for it.
As for the religion and love of art of the builders, it is much the same
all the world over, whether the building be an Egyptian temple or the
United States Bank. It costs more than it comes to. The mainspring is
vanity, assisted by the love of garlic and bread and butter. Mr. Balcom,
a promising young architect, designs it on the back of his Vitruvius,
with hard pencil and ruler, and the job is let out to Dobson & Sons,
stonecutters. When the thirty centuries begin to look down on it,
mankind begin to look up at it. As for your high towers and monuments,
there was a crazy fellow once in this town who undertook to dig through
to China, and he got so far that, as he said, he heard the Chinese pots
and kettles rattle; but I think that I shall not go out of my way to
admire the hole which he made. Many are concerned about the monuments
of the West and the East--to know who built them. For my part, I should
like to know who in those days did not build them--who were above such
trifling. But to proceed with my statistics.

By surveying, carpentry, and day-labor of various other kinds in the
village in the meanwhile, for I have as many trades as fingers, I had
earned $13.34. The expense of food for eight months, namely, from July
4th to March 1st, the time when these estimates were made, though I
lived there more than two years--not counting potatoes, a little green
corn, and some peas, which I had raised, nor considering the value of
what was on hand at the last date--was

    Rice.................... $ 1.73-1/2
    Molasses.................  1.73     Cheapest form of the
                                         saccharine.
    Rye meal.................  1.04-3/4
    Indian meal..............  0.99-3/4  Cheaper than rye.
    Pork.....................  0.22
    All experiments which failed:
    Flour....................  0.88  Costs more than Indian meal,
                                      both money and trouble.
    Sugar....................  0.80
    Lard.....................  0.65
    Apples...................  0.25
    Dried apple..............  0.22
    Sweet potatoes...........  0.10
    One pumpkin..............  0.06
    One watermelon...........  0.02
    Salt.....................  0.03

Yes, I did eat $8.74, all told; but I should not thus unblushingly
publish my guilt, if I did not know that most of my readers were equally
guilty with myself, and that their deeds would look no better in print.
The next year I sometimes caught a mess of fish for my dinner, and
once I went so far as to slaughter a woodchuck which ravaged my
bean-field--effect his transmigration, as a Tartar would say--and devour
him, partly for experiment's sake; but though it afforded me a momentary
enjoyment, notwithstanding a musky flavor, I saw that the longest use
would not make that a good practice, however it might seem to have your
woodchucks ready dressed by the village butcher.

Clothing and some incidental expenses within the same dates, though
little can be inferred from this item, amounted to

                                            $8.40-3/4
    Oil and some household utensils........  2.00

So that all the pecuniary outgoes, excepting for washing and mending,
which for the most part were done out of the house, and their bills have
not yet been received--and these are all and more than all the ways by
which money necessarily goes out in this part of the world--were

    House................................. $ 28.12-1/2
    Farm one year........................... 14.72-1/2
    Food eight months.......................  8.74
    Clothing, etc., eight months............  8.40-3/4
    Oil, etc., eight months.................  2.00
                                           ------------
        In all............................ $ 61.99-3/4

I address myself now to those of my readers who have a living to get.
And to meet this I have for farm produce sold

                                            $23.44
    Earned by day-labor....................  13.34
                                           --------
        In all............................. $36.78,

which subtracted from the sum of the outgoes leaves a balance of $25.21-3/4
on the one side--this being very nearly the means with which I
started, and the measure of expenses to be incurred--and on the
other, beside the leisure and independence and health thus secured, a
comfortable house for me as long as I choose to occupy it.

These statistics, however accidental and therefore uninstructive they
may appear, as they have a certain completeness, have a certain value
also. Nothing was given me of which I have not rendered some account.
It appears from the above estimate, that my food alone cost me in money
about twenty-seven cents a week. It was, for nearly two years after
this, rye and Indian meal without yeast, potatoes, rice, a very little
salt pork, molasses, and salt; and my drink, water. It was fit that I
should live on rice, mainly, who love so well the philosophy of India.
To meet the objections of some inveterate cavillers, I may as well
state, that if I dined out occasionally, as I always had done, and I
trust shall have opportunities to do again, it was frequently to the
detriment of my domestic arrangements. But the dining out, being, as
I have stated, a constant element, does not in the least affect a
comparative statement like this.

I learned from my two years' experience that it would cost incredibly
little trouble to obtain one's necessary food, even in this latitude;
that a man may use as simple a diet as the animals, and yet retain
health and strength. I have made a satisfactory dinner, satisfactory
on several accounts, simply off a dish of purslane (_Portulaca oleracea_)
which I gathered in my cornfield, boiled and salted. I give the Latin on
account of the savoriness of the trivial name. And pray what more can
a reasonable man desire, in peaceful times, in ordinary noons, than a
sufficient number of ears of green sweet corn boiled, with the addition
of salt? Even the little variety which I used was a yielding to the
demands of appetite, and not of health. Yet men have come to such a pass
that they frequently starve, not for want of necessaries, but for want
of luxuries; and I know a good woman who thinks that her son lost his
life because he took to drinking water only.

The reader will perceive that I am treating the subject rather from an
economic than a dietetic point of view, and he will not venture to put
my abstemiousness to the test unless he has a well-stocked larder.

Bread I at first made of pure Indian meal and salt, genuine hoe-cakes,
which I baked before my fire out of doors on a shingle or the end of a
stick of timber sawed off in building my house; but it was wont to get
smoked and to have a piny flavor. I tried flour also; but have at last
found a mixture of rye and Indian meal most convenient and agreeable. In
cold weather it was no little amusement to bake several small loaves of
this in succession, tending and turning them as carefully as an Egyptian
his hatching eggs. They were a real cereal fruit which I ripened, and
they had to my senses a fragrance like that of other noble fruits, which
I kept in as long as possible by wrapping them in cloths. I made a study
of the ancient and indispensable art of bread-making, consulting such
authorities as offered, going back to the primitive days and first
invention of the unleavened kind, when from the wildness of nuts and
meats men first reached the mildness and refinement of this diet, and
travelling gradually down in my studies through that accidental souring
of the dough which, it is supposed, taught the leavening process, and
through the various fermentations thereafter, till I came to "good,
sweet, wholesome bread," the staff of life. Leaven, which some deem the
soul of bread, the _spiritus_ which fills its cellular tissue, which is
religiously preserved like the vestal fire--some precious bottleful,
I suppose, first brought over in the Mayflower, did the business for
America, and its influence is still rising, swelling, spreading, in
cerealian billows over the land--this seed I regularly and faithfully
procured from the village, till at length one morning I forgot the
rules, and scalded my yeast; by which accident I discovered that even
this was not indispensable--for my discoveries were not by the synthetic
but analytic process--and I have gladly omitted it since, though most
housewives earnestly assured me that safe and wholesome bread without
yeast might not be, and elderly people prophesied a speedy decay of the
vital forces. Yet I find it not to be an essential ingredient, and after
going without it for a year am still in the land of the living; and I
am glad to escape the trivialness of carrying a bottleful in my pocket,
which would sometimes pop and discharge its contents to my discomfiture.
It is simpler and more respectable to omit it. Man is an animal who
more than any other can adapt himself to all climates and circumstances.
Neither did I put any sal-soda, or other acid or alkali, into my bread.
It would seem that I made it according to the recipe which Marcus
Porcius Cato gave about two centuries before Christ. "Panem depsticium
sic facito. Manus mortariumque bene lavato. Farinam in mortarium
indito, aquae paulatim addito, subigitoque pulchre. Ubi bene subegeris,
defingito, coquitoque sub testu." Which I take to mean,--"Make kneaded
bread thus. Wash your hands and trough well. Put the meal into the
trough, add water gradually, and knead it thoroughly. When you have
kneaded it well, mould it, and bake it under a cover," that is, in a
baking kettle. Not a word about leaven. But I did not always use this
staff of life. At one time, owing to the emptiness of my purse, I saw
none of it for more than a month.

Every New Englander might easily raise all his own breadstuffs in this
land of rye and Indian corn, and not depend on distant and fluctuating
markets for them. Yet so far are we from simplicity and independence
that, in Concord, fresh and sweet meal is rarely sold in the shops, and
hominy and corn in a still coarser form are hardly used by any. For the
most part the farmer gives to his cattle and hogs the grain of his own
producing, and buys flour, which is at least no more wholesome, at a
greater cost, at the store. I saw that I could easily raise my bushel
or two of rye and Indian corn, for the former will grow on the poorest
land, and the latter does not require the best, and grind them in a
hand-mill, and so do without rice and pork; and if I must have some
concentrated sweet, I found by experiment that I could make a very good
molasses either of pumpkins or beets, and I knew that I needed only to
set out a few maples to obtain it more easily still, and while these
were growing I could use various substitutes beside those which I have
named. "For," as the Forefathers sang,--

                "we can make liquor to sweeten our lips
        Of pumpkins and parsnips and walnut-tree chips."

Finally, as for salt, that grossest of groceries, to obtain this might
be a fit occasion for a visit to the seashore, or, if I did without it
altogether, I should probably drink the less water. I do not learn that
the Indians ever troubled themselves to go after it.

Thus I could avoid all trade and barter, so far as my food was
concerned, and having a shelter already, it would only remain to get
clothing and fuel. The pantaloons which I now wear were woven in a
farmer's family--thank Heaven there is so much virtue still in man; for
I think the fall from the farmer to the operative as great and memorable
as that from the man to the farmer;--and in a new country, fuel is an
encumbrance. As for a habitat, if I were not permitted still to squat,
I might purchase one acre at the same price for which the land I
cultivated was sold--namely, eight dollars and eight cents. But as it
was, I considered that I enhanced the value of the land by squatting on
it.

There is a certain class of unbelievers who sometimes ask me such
questions as, if I think that I can live on vegetable food alone; and
to strike at the root of the matter at once--for the root is faith--I
am accustomed to answer such, that I can live on board nails. If they
cannot understand that, they cannot understand much that I have to say.
For my part, I am glad to hear of experiments of this kind being tried;
as that a young man tried for a fortnight to live on hard, raw corn on
the ear, using his teeth for all mortar. The squirrel tribe tried the
same and succeeded. The human race is interested in these experiments,
though a few old women who are incapacitated for them, or who own their
thirds in mills, may be alarmed.

       *       *       *       *       *

My furniture, part of which I made myself--and the rest cost me nothing
of which I have not rendered an account--consisted of a bed, a table, a
desk, three chairs, a looking-glass three inches in diameter, a pair of
tongs and andirons, a kettle, a skillet, and a frying-pan, a dipper, a
wash-bowl, two knives and forks, three plates, one cup, one spoon, a jug
for oil, a jug for molasses, and a japanned lamp. None is so poor that
he need sit on a pumpkin. That is shiftlessness. There is a plenty of
such chairs as I like best in the village garrets to be had for taking
them away. Furniture! Thank God, I can sit and I can stand without the
aid of a furniture warehouse. What man but a philosopher would not
be ashamed to see his furniture packed in a cart and going up country
exposed to the light of heaven and the eyes of men, a beggarly account
of empty boxes? That is Spaulding's furniture. I could never tell from
inspecting such a load whether it belonged to a so-called rich man or a
poor one; the owner always seemed poverty-stricken. Indeed, the more
you have of such things the poorer you are. Each load looks as if it
contained the contents of a dozen shanties; and if one shanty is poor,
this is a dozen times as poor. Pray, for what do we _move_ ever but to
get rid of our furniture, our _exuviæ_: at last to go from this world to
another newly furnished, and leave this to be burned? It is the same as
if all these traps were buckled to a man's belt, and he could not
move over the rough country where our lines are cast without dragging
them--dragging his trap. He was a lucky fox that left his tail in the
trap. The muskrat will gnaw his third leg off to be free. No wonder man
has lost his elasticity. How often he is at a dead set! "Sir, if I may
be so bold, what do you mean by a dead set?" If you are a seer, whenever
you meet a man you will see all that he owns, ay, and much that he
pretends to disown, behind him, even to his kitchen furniture and all
the trumpery which he saves and will not burn, and he will appear to be
harnessed to it and making what headway he can. I think that the man
is at a dead set who has got through a knot-hole or gateway where his
sledge load of furniture cannot follow him. I cannot but feel compassion
when I hear some trig, compact-looking man, seemingly free, all girded
and ready, speak of his "furniture," as whether it is insured or not.
"But what shall I do with my furniture?"--My gay butterfly is entangled
in a spider's web then. Even those who seem for a long while not to
have any, if you inquire more narrowly you will find have some stored
in somebody's barn. I look upon England today as an old gentleman who is
travelling with a great deal of baggage, trumpery which has accumulated
from long housekeeping, which he has not the courage to burn; great
trunk, little trunk, bandbox, and bundle. Throw away the first three at
least. It would surpass the powers of a well man nowadays to take up his
bed and walk, and I should certainly advise a sick one to lay down his
bed and run. When I have met an immigrant tottering under a bundle which
contained his all--looking like an enormous wen which had grown out of
the nape of his neck--I have pitied him, not because that was his all,
but because he had all _that_ to carry. If I have got to drag my trap, I
will take care that it be a light one and do not nip me in a vital part.
But perchance it would be wisest never to put one's paw into it.

I would observe, by the way, that it costs me nothing for curtains, for
I have no gazers to shut out but the sun and moon, and I am willing that
they should look in. The moon will not sour milk nor taint meat of mine,
nor will the sun injure my furniture or fade my carpet; and if he is
sometimes too warm a friend, I find it still better economy to retreat
behind some curtain which nature has provided, than to add a single item
to the details of housekeeping. A lady once offered me a mat, but as
I had no room to spare within the house, nor time to spare within or
without to shake it, I declined it, preferring to wipe my feet on the
sod before my door. It is best to avoid the beginnings of evil.

Not long since I was present at the auction of a deacon's effects, for
his life had not been ineffectual:--

      "The evil that men do lives after them."

As usual, a great proportion was trumpery which had begun to accumulate
in his father's day. Among the rest was a dried tapeworm. And now, after
lying half a century in his garret and other dust holes, these things
were not burned; instead of a _bonfire_, or purifying destruction of
them, there was an _auction_, or increasing of them. The neighbors eagerly
collected to view them, bought them all, and carefully transported them
to their garrets and dust holes, to lie there till their estates are
settled, when they will start again. When a man dies he kicks the dust.

The customs of some savage nations might, perchance, be profitably
imitated by us, for they at least go through the semblance of casting
their slough annually; they have the idea of the thing, whether they
have the reality or not. Would it not be well if we were to celebrate
such a "busk," or "feast of first fruits," as Bartram describes to have
been the custom of the Mucclasse Indians? "When a town celebrates the
busk," says he, "having previously provided themselves with new clothes,
new pots, pans, and other household utensils and furniture, they collect
all their worn out clothes and other despicable things, sweep and
cleanse their houses, squares, and the whole town of their filth, which
with all the remaining grain and other old provisions they cast together
into one common heap, and consume it with fire. After having taken
medicine, and fasted for three days, all the fire in the town is
extinguished. During this fast they abstain from the gratification of
every appetite and passion whatever. A general amnesty is proclaimed;
all malefactors may return to their town."

"On the fourth morning, the high priest, by rubbing dry wood together,
produces new fire in the public square, from whence every habitation in
the town is supplied with the new and pure flame."

They then feast on the new corn and fruits, and dance and sing for three
days, "and the four following days they receive visits and rejoice with
their friends from neighboring towns who have in like manner purified
and prepared themselves."

The Mexicans also practised a similar purification at the end of every
fifty-two years, in the belief that it was time for the world to come to
an end.

I have scarcely heard of a truer sacrament, that is, as the dictionary
defines it, "outward and visible sign of an inward and spiritual grace,"
than this, and I have no doubt that they were originally inspired
directly from Heaven to do thus, though they have no Biblical record of
the revelation.

       *       *       *       *       *

For more than five years I maintained myself thus solely by the labor
of my hands, and I found that, by working about six weeks in a year, I
could meet all the expenses of living. The whole of my winters, as well
as most of my summers, I had free and clear for study. I have thoroughly
tried school-keeping, and found that my expenses were in proportion, or
rather out of proportion, to my income, for I was obliged to dress and
train, not to say think and believe, accordingly, and I lost my time
into the bargain. As I did not teach for the good of my fellow-men, but
simply for a livelihood, this was a failure. I have tried trade but I
found that it would take ten years to get under way in that, and that
then I should probably be on my way to the devil. I was actually afraid
that I might by that time be doing what is called a good business. When
formerly I was looking about to see what I could do for a living, some
sad experience in conforming to the wishes of friends being fresh in
my mind to tax my ingenuity, I thought often and seriously of picking
huckleberries; that surely I could do, and its small profits might
suffice--for my greatest skill has been to want but little--so little
capital it required, so little distraction from my wonted moods, I
foolishly thought. While my acquaintances went unhesitatingly into trade
or the professions, I contemplated this occupation as most like theirs;
ranging the hills all summer to pick the berries which came in my way,
and thereafter carelessly dispose of them; so, to keep the flocks of
Admetus. I also dreamed that I might gather the wild herbs, or carry
evergreens to such villagers as loved to be reminded of the woods, even
to the city, by hay-cart loads. But I have since learned that trade
curses everything it handles; and though you trade in messages from
heaven, the whole curse of trade attaches to the business.

As I preferred some things to others, and especially valued my freedom,
as I could fare hard and yet succeed well, I did not wish to spend
my time in earning rich carpets or other fine furniture, or delicate
cookery, or a house in the Grecian or the Gothic style just yet. If
there are any to whom it is no interruption to acquire these things,
and who know how to use them when acquired, I relinquish to them the
pursuit. Some are "industrious," and appear to love labor for its own
sake, or perhaps because it keeps them out of worse mischief; to such I
have at present nothing to say. Those who would not know what to do with
more leisure than they now enjoy, I might advise to work twice as
hard as they do--work till they pay for themselves, and get their free
papers. For myself I found that the occupation of a day-laborer was the
most independent of any, especially as it required only thirty or forty
days in a year to support one. The laborer's day ends with the going
down of the sun, and he is then free to devote himself to his chosen
pursuit, independent of his labor; but his employer, who speculates from
month to month, has no respite from one end of the year to the other.

In short, I am convinced, both by faith and experience, that to maintain
one's self on this earth is not a hardship but a pastime, if we will
live simply and wisely; as the pursuits of the simpler nations are still
the sports of the more artificial. It is not necessary that a man should
earn his living by the sweat of his brow, unless he sweats easier than I
do.

One young man of my acquaintance, who has inherited some acres, told me
that he thought he should live as I did, _if he had the means_. I would
not have any one adopt _my_ mode of living on any account; for, beside
that before he has fairly learned it I may have found out another for
myself, I desire that there may be as many different persons in the
world as possible; but I would have each one be very careful to find
out and pursue _his own_ way, and not his father's or his mother's or his
neighbor's instead. The youth may build or plant or sail, only let him
not be hindered from doing that which he tells me he would like to do.
It is by a mathematical point only that we are wise, as the sailor or
the fugitive slave keeps the polestar in his eye; but that is sufficient
guidance for all our life. We may not arrive at our port within a
calculable period, but we would preserve the true course.

Undoubtedly, in this case, what is true for one is truer still for a
thousand, as a large house is not proportionally more expensive than a
small one, since one roof may cover, one cellar underlie, and one wall
separate several apartments. But for my part, I preferred the solitary
dwelling. Moreover, it will commonly be cheaper to build the whole
yourself than to convince another of the advantage of the common wall;
and when you have done this, the common partition, to be much cheaper,
must be a thin one, and that other may prove a bad neighbor, and also
not keep his side in repair. The only co-operation which is commonly
possible is exceedingly partial and superficial; and what little true
co-operation there is, is as if it were not, being a harmony inaudible
to men. If a man has faith, he will co-operate with equal faith
everywhere; if he has not faith, he will continue to live like the rest
of the world, whatever company he is joined to. To co-operate in the
highest as well as the lowest sense, means _to get our living together_. I
heard it proposed lately that two young men should travel together over
the world, the one without money, earning his means as he went, before
the mast and behind the plow, the other carrying a bill of exchange in
his pocket. It was easy to see that they could not long be companions or
co-operate, since one would not _operate_ at all. They would part at
the first interesting crisis in their adventures. Above all, as I have
implied, the man who goes alone can start today; but he who travels with
another must wait till that other is ready, and it may be a long time
before they get off.

       *       *       *       *       *

But all this is very selfish, I have heard some of my townsmen say.
I confess that I have hitherto indulged very little in philanthropic
enterprises. I have made some sacrifices to a sense of duty, and among
others have sacrificed this pleasure also. There are those who have
used all their arts to persuade me to undertake the support of some
poor family in the town; and if I had nothing to do--for the devil finds
employment for the idle--I might try my hand at some such pastime as
that. However, when I have thought to indulge myself in this respect,
and lay their Heaven under an obligation by maintaining certain poor
persons in all respects as comfortably as I maintain myself, and have
even ventured so far as to make them the offer, they have one and all
unhesitatingly preferred to remain poor. While my townsmen and women are
devoted in so many ways to the good of their fellows, I trust that one
at least may be spared to other and less humane pursuits. You must have
a genius for charity as well as for anything else. As for Doing-good,
that is one of the professions which are full. Moreover, I have tried it
fairly, and, strange as it may seem, am satisfied that it does not agree
with my constitution. Probably I should not consciously and deliberately
forsake my particular calling to do the good which society demands of
me, to save the universe from annihilation; and I believe that a like
but infinitely greater steadfastness elsewhere is all that now preserves
it. But I would not stand between any man and his genius; and to him who
does this work, which I decline, with his whole heart and soul and life,
I would say, Persevere, even if the world call it doing evil, as it is
most likely they will.

I am far from supposing that my case is a peculiar one; no doubt many of
my readers would make a similar defence. At doing something--I will not
engage that my neighbors shall pronounce it good--I do not hesitate to
say that I should be a capital fellow to hire; but what that is, it is
for my employer to find out. What _good_ I do, in the common sense of
that word, must be aside from my main path, and for the most part wholly
unintended. Men say, practically, Begin where you are and such as you
are, without aiming mainly to become of more worth, and with kindness
aforethought go about doing good. If I were to preach at all in this
strain, I should say rather, Set about being good. As if the sun should
stop when he had kindled his fires up to the splendor of a moon or
a star of the sixth magnitude, and go about like a Robin Goodfellow,
peeping in at every cottage window, inspiring lunatics, and tainting
meats, and making darkness visible, instead of steadily increasing his
genial heat and beneficence till he is of such brightness that no mortal
can look him in the face, and then, and in the meanwhile too, going
about the world in his own orbit, doing it good, or rather, as a truer
philosophy has discovered, the world going about him getting good. When
Phaeton, wishing to prove his heavenly birth by his beneficence, had the
sun's chariot but one day, and drove out of the beaten track, he burned
several blocks of houses in the lower streets of heaven, and scorched
the surface of the earth, and dried up every spring, and made the great
desert of Sahara, till at length Jupiter hurled him headlong to the
earth with a thunderbolt, and the sun, through grief at his death, did
not shine for a year.

There is no odor so bad as that which arises from goodness tainted. It
is human, it is divine, carrion. If I knew for a certainty that a man
was coming to my house with the conscious design of doing me good,
I should run for my life, as from that dry and parching wind of the
African deserts called the simoom, which fills the mouth and nose and
ears and eyes with dust till you are suffocated, for fear that I should
get some of his good done to me--some of its virus mingled with my
blood. No--in this case I would rather suffer evil the natural way.
A man is not a good _man_ to me because he will feed me if I should be
starving, or warm me if I should be freezing, or pull me out of a ditch
if I should ever fall into one. I can find you a Newfoundland dog that
will do as much. Philanthropy is not love for one's fellow-man in the
broadest sense. Howard was no doubt an exceedingly kind and worthy man
in his way, and has his reward; but, comparatively speaking, what are a
hundred Howards to _us_, if their philanthropy do not help us in our
best estate, when we are most worthy to be helped? I never heard of a
philanthropic meeting in which it was sincerely proposed to do any good
to me, or the like of me.

The Jesuits were quite balked by those Indians who, being burned at
the stake, suggested new modes of torture to their tormentors. Being
superior to physical suffering, it sometimes chanced that they were
superior to any consolation which the missionaries could offer; and the
law to do as you would be done by fell with less persuasiveness on the
ears of those who, for their part, did not care how they were done by,
who loved their enemies after a new fashion, and came very near freely
forgiving them all they did.

Be sure that you give the poor the aid they most need, though it be your
example which leaves them far behind. If you give money, spend yourself
with it, and do not merely abandon it to them. We make curious mistakes
sometimes. Often the poor man is not so cold and hungry as he is
dirty and ragged and gross. It is partly his taste, and not merely his
misfortune. If you give him money, he will perhaps buy more rags with
it. I was wont to pity the clumsy Irish laborers who cut ice on the
pond, in such mean and ragged clothes, while I shivered in my more tidy
and somewhat more fashionable garments, till, one bitter cold day, one
who had slipped into the water came to my house to warm him, and I saw
him strip off three pairs of pants and two pairs of stockings ere he got
down to the skin, though they were dirty and ragged enough, it is true,
and that he could afford to refuse the _extra_ garments which I offered
him, he had so many _intra_ ones. This ducking was the very thing he
needed. Then I began to pity myself, and I saw that it would be a
greater charity to bestow on me a flannel shirt than a whole slop-shop
on him. There are a thousand hacking at the branches of evil to one who
is striking at the root, and it may be that he who bestows the largest
amount of time and money on the needy is doing the most by his mode of
life to produce that misery which he strives in vain to relieve. It is
the pious slave-breeder devoting the proceeds of every tenth slave to
buy a Sunday's liberty for the rest. Some show their kindness to the
poor by employing them in their kitchens. Would they not be kinder if
they employed themselves there? You boast of spending a tenth part of
your income in charity; maybe you should spend the nine tenths so, and
done with it. Society recovers only a tenth part of the property then.
Is this owing to the generosity of him in whose possession it is found,
or to the remissness of the officers of justice?

Philanthropy is almost the only virtue which is sufficiently appreciated
by mankind. Nay, it is greatly overrated; and it is our selfishness
which overrates it. A robust poor man, one sunny day here in Concord,
praised a fellow-townsman to me, because, as he said, he was kind to the
poor; meaning himself. The kind uncles and aunts of the race are more
esteemed than its true spiritual fathers and mothers. I once heard a
reverend lecturer on England, a man of learning and intelligence,
after enumerating her scientific, literary, and political worthies,
Shakespeare, Bacon, Cromwell, Milton, Newton, and others, speak next of
her Christian heroes, whom, as if his profession required it of him,
he elevated to a place far above all the rest, as the greatest of the
great. They were Penn, Howard, and Mrs. Fry. Every one must feel the
falsehood and cant of this. The last were not England's best men and
women; only, perhaps, her best philanthropists.

I would not subtract anything from the praise that is due to
philanthropy, but merely demand justice for all who by their lives
and works are a blessing to mankind. I do not value chiefly a man's
uprightness and benevolence, which are, as it were, his stem and leaves.
Those plants of whose greenness withered we make herb tea for the sick
serve but a humble use, and are most employed by quacks. I want the
flower and fruit of a man; that some fragrance be wafted over from him
to me, and some ripeness flavor our intercourse. His goodness must not
be a partial and transitory act, but a constant superfluity, which costs
him nothing and of which he is unconscious. This is a charity that hides
a multitude of sins. The philanthropist too often surrounds mankind with
the remembrance of his own castoff griefs as an atmosphere, and calls it
sympathy. We should impart our courage, and not our despair, our health
and ease, and not our disease, and take care that this does not spread
by contagion. From what southern plains comes up the voice of wailing?
Under what latitudes reside the heathen to whom we would send light? Who
is that intemperate and brutal man whom we would redeem? If anything ail
a man, so that he does not perform his functions, if he have a pain in
his bowels even--for that is the seat of sympathy--he forthwith sets
about reforming--the world. Being a microcosm himself, he discovers--and
it is a true discovery, and he is the man to make it--that the world has
been eating green apples; to his eyes, in fact, the globe itself is
a great green apple, which there is danger awful to think of that the
children of men will nibble before it is ripe; and straightway his
drastic philanthropy seeks out the Esquimau and the Patagonian, and
embraces the populous Indian and Chinese villages; and thus, by a few
years of philanthropic activity, the powers in the meanwhile using him
for their own ends, no doubt, he cures himself of his dyspepsia, the
globe acquires a faint blush on one or both of its cheeks, as if it were
beginning to be ripe, and life loses its crudity and is once more sweet
and wholesome to live. I never dreamed of any enormity greater than I
have committed. I never knew, and never shall know, a worse man than
myself.

I believe that what so saddens the reformer is not his sympathy with his
fellows in distress, but, though he be the holiest son of God, is
his private ail. Let this be righted, let the spring come to him, the
morning rise over his couch, and he will forsake his generous companions
without apology. My excuse for not lecturing against the use of
tobacco is, that I never chewed it, that is a penalty which reformed
tobacco-chewers have to pay; though there are things enough I have
chewed which I could lecture against. If you should ever be betrayed
into any of these philanthropies, do not let your left hand know what
your right hand does, for it is not worth knowing. Rescue the drowning
and tie your shoestrings. Take your time, and set about some free labor.

Our manners have been corrupted by communication with the saints. Our
hymn-books resound with a melodious cursing of God and enduring Him
forever. One would say that even the prophets and redeemers had rather
consoled the fears than confirmed the hopes of man. There is nowhere
recorded a simple and irrepressible satisfaction with the gift of
life, any memorable praise of God. All health and success does me good,
however far off and withdrawn it may appear; all disease and failure
helps to make me sad and does me evil, however much sympathy it may have
with me or I with it. If, then, we would indeed restore mankind by truly
Indian, botanic, magnetic, or natural means, let us first be as simple
and well as Nature ourselves, dispel the clouds which hang over our own
brows, and take up a little life into our pores. Do not stay to be an
overseer of the poor, but endeavor to become one of the worthies of the
world.

I read in the Gulistan, or Flower Garden, of Sheik Sadi of Shiraz, that
"they asked a wise man, saying: Of the many celebrated trees which the
Most High God has created lofty and umbrageous, they call none azad, or
free, excepting the cypress, which bears no fruit; what mystery is there
in this? He replied, Each has its appropriate produce, and appointed
season, during the continuance of which it is fresh and blooming, and
during their absence dry and withered; to neither of which states is the
cypress exposed, being always flourishing; and of this nature are the
azads, or religious independents.--Fix not thy heart on that which is
transitory; for the Dijlah, or Tigris, will continue to flow through
Bagdad after the race of caliphs is extinct: if thy hand has plenty, be
liberal as the date tree; but if it affords nothing to give away, be an
azad, or free man, like the cypress."

                        COMPLEMENTAL VERSES

                    The Pretensions of Poverty

          Thou dost presume too much, poor needy wretch,
          To claim a station in the firmament
          Because thy humble cottage, or thy tub,
          Nurses some lazy or pedantic virtue
          In the cheap sunshine or by shady springs,
          With roots and pot-herbs; where thy right hand,
          Tearing those humane passions from the mind,
          Upon whose stocks fair blooming virtues flourish,
          Degradeth nature, and benumbeth sense,
          And, Gorgon-like, turns active men to stone.
          We not require the dull society
          Of your necessitated temperance,
          Or that unnatural stupidity
          That knows nor joy nor sorrow; nor your forc'd
          Falsely exalted passive fortitude
          Above the active.  This low abject brood,
          That fix their seats in mediocrity,
          Become your servile minds; but we advance
          Such virtues only as admit excess,
          Brave, bounteous acts, regal magnificence,
          All-seeing prudence, magnanimity
          That knows no bound, and that heroic virtue
          For which antiquity hath left no name,
          But patterns only, such as Hercules,
          Achilles, Theseus.  Back to thy loath'd cell;
          And when thou seest the new enlightened sphere,
          Study to know but what those worthies were.
                                 T. CAREW




Where I Lived, and What I Lived For


At a certain season of our life we are accustomed to consider every spot
as the possible site of a house. I have thus surveyed the country on
every side within a dozen miles of where I live. In imagination I have
bought all the farms in succession, for all were to be bought, and I
knew their price. I walked over each farmer's premises, tasted his wild
apples, discoursed on husbandry with him, took his farm at his price, at
any price, mortgaging it to him in my mind; even put a higher price on
it--took everything but a deed of it--took his word for his deed, for I
dearly love to talk--cultivated it, and him too to some extent, I trust,
and withdrew when I had enjoyed it long enough, leaving him to carry it
on. This experience entitled me to be regarded as a sort of real-estate
broker by my friends. Wherever I sat, there I might live, and the
landscape radiated from me accordingly. What is a house but a _sedes_, a
seat?--better if a country seat. I discovered many a site for a house
not likely to be soon improved, which some might have thought too far
from the village, but to my eyes the village was too far from it. Well,
there I might live, I said; and there I did live, for an hour, a summer
and a winter life; saw how I could let the years run off, buffet the
winter through, and see the spring come in. The future inhabitants of
this region, wherever they may place their houses, may be sure that they
have been anticipated. An afternoon sufficed to lay out the land into
orchard, wood-lot, and pasture, and to decide what fine oaks or pines
should be left to stand before the door, and whence each blasted tree
could be seen to the best advantage; and then I let it lie, fallow,
perchance, for a man is rich in proportion to the number of things which
he can afford to let alone.

My imagination carried me so far that I even had the refusal of several
farms--the refusal was all I wanted--but I never got my fingers burned
by actual possession. The nearest that I came to actual possession was
when I bought the Hollowell place, and had begun to sort my seeds, and
collected materials with which to make a wheelbarrow to carry it on or
off with; but before the owner gave me a deed of it, his wife--every man
has such a wife--changed her mind and wished to keep it, and he offered
me ten dollars to release him. Now, to speak the truth, I had but ten
cents in the world, and it surpassed my arithmetic to tell, if I was
that man who had ten cents, or who had a farm, or ten dollars, or all
together. However, I let him keep the ten dollars and the farm too, for
I had carried it far enough; or rather, to be generous, I sold him the
farm for just what I gave for it, and, as he was not a rich man, made
him a present of ten dollars, and still had my ten cents, and seeds, and
materials for a wheelbarrow left. I found thus that I had been a rich
man without any damage to my poverty. But I retained the landscape, and
I have since annually carried off what it yielded without a wheelbarrow.
With respect to landscapes,

               "I am monarch of all I _survey_,
                My right there is none to dispute."

I have frequently seen a poet withdraw, having enjoyed the most valuable
part of a farm, while the crusty farmer supposed that he had got a few
wild apples only. Why, the owner does not know it for many years when
a poet has put his farm in rhyme, the most admirable kind of invisible
fence, has fairly impounded it, milked it, skimmed it, and got all the
cream, and left the farmer only the skimmed milk.

The real attractions of the Hollowell farm, to me, were: its complete
retirement, being, about two miles from the village, half a mile from
the nearest neighbor, and separated from the highway by a broad field;
its bounding on the river, which the owner said protected it by its fogs
from frosts in the spring, though that was nothing to me; the gray color
and ruinous state of the house and barn, and the dilapidated fences,
which put such an interval between me and the last occupant; the hollow
and lichen-covered apple trees, gnawed by rabbits, showing what kind of
neighbors I should have; but above all, the recollection I had of it
from my earliest voyages up the river, when the house was concealed
behind a dense grove of red maples, through which I heard the house-dog
bark. I was in haste to buy it, before the proprietor finished getting
out some rocks, cutting down the hollow apple trees, and grubbing up
some young birches which had sprung up in the pasture, or, in short, had
made any more of his improvements. To enjoy these advantages I was ready
to carry it on; like Atlas, to take the world on my shoulders--I never
heard what compensation he received for that--and do all those things
which had no other motive or excuse but that I might pay for it and
be unmolested in my possession of it; for I knew all the while that it
would yield the most abundant crop of the kind I wanted, if I could only
afford to let it alone. But it turned out as I have said.

All that I could say, then, with respect to farming on a large scale--I
have always cultivated a garden--was, that I had had my seeds ready.
Many think that seeds improve with age. I have no doubt that time
discriminates between the good and the bad; and when at last I shall
plant, I shall be less likely to be disappointed. But I would say to my
fellows, once for all, As long as possible live free and uncommitted. It
makes but little difference whether you are committed to a farm or the
county jail.

Old Cato, whose "De Re Rusticâ" is my "Cultivator," says--and the only
translation I have seen makes sheer nonsense of the passage--"When you
think of getting a farm turn it thus in your mind, not to buy greedily;
nor spare your pains to look at it, and do not think it enough to go
round it once. The oftener you go there the more it will please you, if
it is good." I think I shall not buy greedily, but go round and round it
as long as I live, and be buried in it first, that it may please me the
more at last.

       *       *       *       *       *

The present was my next experiment of this kind, which I purpose to
describe more at length, for convenience putting the experience of two
years into one. As I have said, I do not propose to write an ode
to dejection, but to brag as lustily as chanticleer in the morning,
standing on his roost, if only to wake my neighbors up.

When first I took up my abode in the woods, that is, began to spend my
nights as well as days there, which, by accident, was on Independence
Day, or the Fourth of July, 1845, my house was not finished for winter,
but was merely a defence against the rain, without plastering or
chimney, the walls being of rough, weather-stained boards, with wide
chinks, which made it cool at night. The upright white hewn studs and
freshly planed door and window casings gave it a clean and airy look,
especially in the morning, when its timbers were saturated with dew, so
that I fancied that by noon some sweet gum would exude from them. To my
imagination it retained throughout the day more or less of this auroral
character, reminding me of a certain house on a mountain which I had
visited a year before. This was an airy and unplastered cabin, fit
to entertain a travelling god, and where a goddess might trail her
garments. The winds which passed over my dwelling were such as sweep
over the ridges of mountains, bearing the broken strains, or celestial
parts only, of terrestrial music. The morning wind forever blows, the
poem of creation is uninterrupted; but few are the ears that hear it.
Olympus is but the outside of the earth everywhere.

The only house I had been the owner of before, if I except a boat, was
a tent, which I used occasionally when making excursions in the summer,
and this is still rolled up in my garret; but the boat, after passing
from hand to hand, has gone down the stream of time. With this more
substantial shelter about me, I had made some progress toward
settling in the world. This frame, so slightly clad, was a sort of
crystallization around me, and reacted on the builder. It was suggestive
somewhat as a picture in outlines. I did not need to go outdoors to take
the air, for the atmosphere within had lost none of its freshness. It
was not so much within doors as behind a door where I sat, even in the
rainiest weather. The Harivansa says, "An abode without birds is like
a meat without seasoning." Such was not my abode, for I found myself
suddenly neighbor to the birds; not by having imprisoned one, but having
caged myself near them. I was not only nearer to some of those which
commonly frequent the garden and the orchard, but to those smaller and
more thrilling songsters of the forest which never, or rarely, serenade
a villager--the wood thrush, the veery, the scarlet tanager, the field
sparrow, the whip-poor-will, and many others.

I was seated by the shore of a small pond, about a mile and a half south
of the village of Concord and somewhat higher than it, in the midst of
an extensive wood between that town and Lincoln, and about two miles
south of that our only field known to fame, Concord Battle Ground; but
I was so low in the woods that the opposite shore, half a mile off, like
the rest, covered with wood, was my most distant horizon. For the first
week, whenever I looked out on the pond it impressed me like a tarn high
up on the side of a mountain, its bottom far above the surface of other
lakes, and, as the sun arose, I saw it throwing off its nightly clothing
of mist, and here and there, by degrees, its soft ripples or its smooth
reflecting surface was revealed, while the mists, like ghosts, were
stealthily withdrawing in every direction into the woods, as at the
breaking up of some nocturnal conventicle. The very dew seemed to
hang upon the trees later into the day than usual, as on the sides of
mountains.

This small lake was of most value as a neighbor in the intervals of a
gentle rain-storm in August, when, both air and water being perfectly
still, but the sky overcast, mid-afternoon had all the serenity of
evening, and the wood thrush sang around, and was heard from shore to
shore. A lake like this is never smoother than at such a time; and the
clear portion of the air above it being, shallow and darkened by clouds,
the water, full of light and reflections, becomes a lower heaven itself
so much the more important. From a hill-top near by, where the wood had
been recently cut off, there was a pleasing vista southward across
the pond, through a wide indentation in the hills which form the shore
there, where their opposite sides sloping toward each other suggested a
stream flowing out in that direction through a wooded valley, but stream
there was none. That way I looked between and over the near green
hills to some distant and higher ones in the horizon, tinged with blue.
Indeed, by standing on tiptoe I could catch a glimpse of some of
the peaks of the still bluer and more distant mountain ranges in the
northwest, those true-blue coins from heaven's own mint, and also of
some portion of the village. But in other directions, even from this
point, I could not see over or beyond the woods which surrounded me. It
is well to have some water in your neighborhood, to give buoyancy to and
float the earth. One value even of the smallest well is, that when you
look into it you see that earth is not continent but insular. This is
as important as that it keeps butter cool. When I looked across the
pond from this peak toward the Sudbury meadows, which in time of flood
I distinguished elevated perhaps by a mirage in their seething valley,
like a coin in a basin, all the earth beyond the pond appeared like
a thin crust insulated and floated even by this small sheet of
interverting water, and I was reminded that this on which I dwelt was
but _dry land_.

Though the view from my door was still more contracted, I did not
feel crowded or confined in the least. There was pasture enough for my
imagination. The low shrub oak plateau to which the opposite shore
arose stretched away toward the prairies of the West and the steppes of
Tartary, affording ample room for all the roving families of men.
"There are none happy in the world but beings who enjoy freely a
vast horizon"--said Damodara, when his herds required new and larger
pastures.

Both place and time were changed, and I dwelt nearer to those parts of
the universe and to those eras in history which had most attracted
me. Where I lived was as far off as many a region viewed nightly by
astronomers. We are wont to imagine rare and delectable places in some
remote and more celestial corner of the system, behind the constellation
of Cassiopeia's Chair, far from noise and disturbance. I discovered that
my house actually had its site in such a withdrawn, but forever new and
unprofaned, part of the universe. If it were worth the while to settle
in those parts near to the Pleiades or the Hyades, to Aldebaran or
Altair, then I was really there, or at an equal remoteness from the life
which I had left behind, dwindled and twinkling with as fine a ray to
my nearest neighbor, and to be seen only in moonless nights by him. Such
was that part of creation where I had squatted;

              "There was a shepherd that did live,
                  And held his thoughts as high
               As were the mounts whereon his flocks
                  Did hourly feed him by."

What should we think of the shepherd's life if his flocks always
wandered to higher pastures than his thoughts?

Every morning was a cheerful invitation to make my life of equal
simplicity, and I may say innocence, with Nature herself. I have been as
sincere a worshipper of Aurora as the Greeks. I got up early and bathed
in the pond; that was a religious exercise, and one of the best things
which I did. They say that characters were engraven on the bathing tub
of King Tchingthang to this effect: "Renew thyself completely each
day; do it again, and again, and forever again." I can understand that.
Morning brings back the heroic ages. I was as much affected by the faint
hum of a mosquito making its invisible and unimaginable tour through
my apartment at earliest dawn, when I was sitting with door and windows
open, as I could be by any trumpet that ever sang of fame. It was
Homer's requiem; itself an Iliad and Odyssey in the air, singing its own
wrath and wanderings. There was something cosmical about it; a standing
advertisement, till forbidden, of the everlasting vigor and fertility of
the world. The morning, which is the most memorable season of the day,
is the awakening hour. Then there is least somnolence in us; and for an
hour, at least, some part of us awakes which slumbers all the rest of
the day and night. Little is to be expected of that day, if it can be
called a day, to which we are not awakened by our Genius, but by the
mechanical nudgings of some servitor, are not awakened by our own
newly acquired force and aspirations from within, accompanied by
the undulations of celestial music, instead of factory bells, and a
fragrance filling the air--to a higher life than we fell asleep from;
and thus the darkness bear its fruit, and prove itself to be good,
no less than the light. That man who does not believe that each day
contains an earlier, more sacred, and auroral hour than he has yet
profaned, has despaired of life, and is pursuing a descending and
darkening way. After a partial cessation of his sensuous life, the soul
of man, or its organs rather, are reinvigorated each day, and his Genius
tries again what noble life it can make. All memorable events, I should
say, transpire in morning time and in a morning atmosphere. The Vedas
say, "All intelligences awake with the morning." Poetry and art, and
the fairest and most memorable of the actions of men, date from such an
hour. All poets and heroes, like Memnon, are the children of Aurora, and
emit their music at sunrise. To him whose elastic and vigorous thought
keeps pace with the sun, the day is a perpetual morning. It matters not
what the clocks say or the attitudes and labors of men. Morning is when
I am awake and there is a dawn in me. Moral reform is the effort to
throw off sleep. Why is it that men give so poor an account of their day
if they have not been slumbering? They are not such poor calculators.
If they had not been overcome with drowsiness, they would have performed
something. The millions are awake enough for physical labor; but only
one in a million is awake enough for effective intellectual exertion,
only one in a hundred millions to a poetic or divine life. To be awake
is to be alive. I have never yet met a man who was quite awake. How
could I have looked him in the face?

We must learn to reawaken and keep ourselves awake, not by mechanical
aids, but by an infinite expectation of the dawn, which does not forsake
us in our soundest sleep. I know of no more encouraging fact than
the unquestionable ability of man to elevate his life by a conscious
endeavor. It is something to be able to paint a particular picture, or
to carve a statue, and so to make a few objects beautiful; but it is far
more glorious to carve and paint the very atmosphere and medium through
which we look, which morally we can do. To affect the quality of the
day, that is the highest of arts. Every man is tasked to make his life,
even in its details, worthy of the contemplation of his most elevated
and critical hour. If we refused, or rather used up, such paltry
information as we get, the oracles would distinctly inform us how this
might be done.

I went to the woods because I wished to live deliberately, to front only
the essential facts of life, and see if I could not learn what it had to
teach, and not, when I came to die, discover that I had not lived. I did
not wish to live what was not life, living is so dear; nor did I wish
to practise resignation, unless it was quite necessary. I wanted to
live deep and suck out all the marrow of life, to live so sturdily and
Spartan-like as to put to rout all that was not life, to cut a broad
swath and shave close, to drive life into a corner, and reduce it to its
lowest terms, and, if it proved to be mean, why then to get the whole
and genuine meanness of it, and publish its meanness to the world; or
if it were sublime, to know it by experience, and be able to give a true
account of it in my next excursion. For most men, it appears to me, are
in a strange uncertainty about it, whether it is of the devil or of God,
and have _somewhat hastily_ concluded that it is the chief end of man here
to "glorify God and enjoy him forever."

Still we live meanly, like ants; though the fable tells us that we were
long ago changed into men; like pygmies we fight with cranes; it is
error upon error, and clout upon clout, and our best virtue has for its
occasion a superfluous and evitable wretchedness. Our life is frittered
away by detail. An honest man has hardly need to count more than his ten
fingers, or in extreme cases he may add his ten toes, and lump the rest.
Simplicity, simplicity, simplicity! I say, let your affairs be as two or
three, and not a hundred or a thousand; instead of a million count half
a dozen, and keep your accounts on your thumb-nail. In the midst of
this chopping sea of civilized life, such are the clouds and storms and
quicksands and thousand-and-one items to be allowed for, that a man has
to live, if he would not founder and go to the bottom and not make his
port at all, by dead reckoning, and he must be a great calculator indeed
who succeeds. Simplify, simplify. Instead of three meals a day, if it
be necessary eat but one; instead of a hundred dishes, five; and reduce
other things in proportion. Our life is like a German Confederacy, made
up of petty states, with its boundary forever fluctuating, so that even
a German cannot tell you how it is bounded at any moment. The nation
itself, with all its so-called internal improvements, which, by the way
are all external and superficial, is just such an unwieldy and overgrown
establishment, cluttered with furniture and tripped up by its own traps,
ruined by luxury and heedless expense, by want of calculation and a
worthy aim, as the million households in the land; and the only cure for
it, as for them, is in a rigid economy, a stern and more than Spartan
simplicity of life and elevation of purpose. It lives too fast. Men
think that it is essential that the _Nation_ have commerce, and export
ice, and talk through a telegraph, and ride thirty miles an hour,
without a doubt, whether _they_ do or not; but whether we should live
like baboons or like men, is a little uncertain. If we do not get out
sleepers, and forge rails, and devote days and nights to the work,
but go to tinkering upon our _lives_ to improve _them_, who will build
railroads? And if railroads are not built, how shall we get to heaven
in season? But if we stay at home and mind our business, who will want
railroads? We do not ride on the railroad; it rides upon us. Did you
ever think what those sleepers are that underlie the railroad? Each one
is a man, an Irishman, or a Yankee man. The rails are laid on them, and
they are covered with sand, and the cars run smoothly over them. They
are sound sleepers, I assure you. And every few years a new lot is laid
down and run over; so that, if some have the pleasure of riding on a
rail, others have the misfortune to be ridden upon. And when they run
over a man that is walking in his sleep, a supernumerary sleeper in the
wrong position, and wake him up, they suddenly stop the cars, and make
a hue and cry about it, as if this were an exception. I am glad to know
that it takes a gang of men for every five miles to keep the sleepers
down and level in their beds as it is, for this is a sign that they may
sometime get up again.

Why should we live with such hurry and waste of life? We are determined
to be starved before we are hungry. Men say that a stitch in time saves
nine, and so they take a thousand stitches today to save nine tomorrow.
As for _work_, we haven't any of any consequence. We have the Saint Vitus'
dance, and cannot possibly keep our heads still. If I should only give
a few pulls at the parish bell-rope, as for a fire, that is, without
setting the bell, there is hardly a man on his farm in the outskirts of
Concord, notwithstanding that press of engagements which was his excuse
so many times this morning, nor a boy, nor a woman, I might almost say,
but would forsake all and follow that sound, not mainly to save property
from the flames, but, if we will confess the truth, much more to see
it burn, since burn it must, and we, be it known, did not set it on
fire--or to see it put out, and have a hand in it, if that is done as
handsomely; yes, even if it were the parish church itself. Hardly a man
takes a half-hour's nap after dinner, but when he wakes he holds up his
head and asks, "What's the news?" as if the rest of mankind had stood
his sentinels. Some give directions to be waked every half-hour,
doubtless for no other purpose; and then, to pay for it, they tell what
they have dreamed. After a night's sleep the news is as indispensable
as the breakfast. "Pray tell me anything new that has happened to a man
anywhere on this globe"--and he reads it over his coffee and rolls, that
a man has had his eyes gouged out this morning on the Wachito River;
never dreaming the while that he lives in the dark unfathomed mammoth
cave of this world, and has but the rudiment of an eye himself.

For my part, I could easily do without the post-office. I think that
there are very few important communications made through it. To speak
critically, I never received more than one or two letters in my life--I
wrote this some years ago--that were worth the postage. The penny-post
is, commonly, an institution through which you seriously offer a man
that penny for his thoughts which is so often safely offered in jest.
And I am sure that I never read any memorable news in a newspaper. If we
read of one man robbed, or murdered, or killed by accident, or one house
burned, or one vessel wrecked, or one steamboat blown up, or one cow
run over on the Western Railroad, or one mad dog killed, or one lot
of grasshoppers in the winter--we never need read of another. One is
enough. If you are acquainted with the principle, what do you care for
a myriad instances and applications? To a philosopher all _news_, as it
is called, is gossip, and they who edit and read it are old women over
their tea. Yet not a few are greedy after this gossip. There was such
a rush, as I hear, the other day at one of the offices to learn the
foreign news by the last arrival, that several large squares of plate
glass belonging to the establishment were broken by the pressure--news
which I seriously think a ready wit might write a twelve-month, or
twelve years, beforehand with sufficient accuracy. As for Spain, for
instance, if you know how to throw in Don Carlos and the Infanta,
and Don Pedro and Seville and Granada, from time to time in the right
proportions--they may have changed the names a little since I saw the
papers--and serve up a bull-fight when other entertainments fail, it
will be true to the letter, and give us as good an idea of the exact
state or ruin of things in Spain as the most succinct and lucid reports
under this head in the newspapers: and as for England, almost the last
significant scrap of news from that quarter was the revolution of 1649;
and if you have learned the history of her crops for an average year,
you never need attend to that thing again, unless your speculations are
of a merely pecuniary character. If one may judge who rarely looks into
the newspapers, nothing new does ever happen in foreign parts, a French
revolution not excepted.

What news! how much more important to know what that is which was never
old! "Kieou-he-yu (great dignitary of the state of Wei) sent a man to
Khoung-tseu to know his news. Khoung-tseu caused the messenger to be
seated near him, and questioned him in these terms: What is your
master doing? The messenger answered with respect: My master desires
to diminish the number of his faults, but he cannot come to the end of
them. The messenger being gone, the philosopher remarked: What a worthy
messenger! What a worthy messenger!" The preacher, instead of vexing the
ears of drowsy farmers on their day of rest at the end of the week--for
Sunday is the fit conclusion of an ill-spent week, and not the fresh
and brave beginning of a new one--with this one other draggle-tail of
a sermon, should shout with thundering voice, "Pause! Avast! Why so
seeming fast, but deadly slow?"

Shams and delusions are esteemed for soundest truths, while reality is
fabulous. If men would steadily observe realities only, and not allow
themselves to be deluded, life, to compare it with such things as we
know, would be like a fairy tale and the Arabian Nights' Entertainments.
If we respected only what is inevitable and has a right to be, music and
poetry would resound along the streets. When we are unhurried and wise,
we perceive that only great and worthy things have any permanent and
absolute existence, that petty fears and petty pleasures are but the
shadow of the reality. This is always exhilarating and sublime. By
closing the eyes and slumbering, and consenting to be deceived by
shows, men establish and confirm their daily life of routine and
habit everywhere, which still is built on purely illusory foundations.
Children, who play life, discern its true law and relations more clearly
than men, who fail to live it worthily, but who think that they are
wiser by experience, that is, by failure. I have read in a Hindoo book,
that "there was a king's son, who, being expelled in infancy from his
native city, was brought up by a forester, and, growing up to maturity
in that state, imagined himself to belong to the barbarous race with
which he lived. One of his father's ministers having discovered him,
revealed to him what he was, and the misconception of his character was
removed, and he knew himself to be a prince. So soul," continues the
Hindoo philosopher, "from the circumstances in which it is placed,
mistakes its own character, until the truth is revealed to it by some
holy teacher, and then it knows itself to be Brahme." I perceive that
we inhabitants of New England live this mean life that we do because our
vision does not penetrate the surface of things. We think that that _is_
which _appears_ to be. If a man should walk through this town and see only
the reality, where, think you, would the "Mill-dam" go to? If he should
give us an account of the realities he beheld there, we should not
recognize the place in his description. Look at a meeting-house, or a
court-house, or a jail, or a shop, or a dwelling-house, and say what
that thing really is before a true gaze, and they would all go to pieces
in your account of them. Men esteem truth remote, in the outskirts of
the system, behind the farthest star, before Adam and after the last
man. In eternity there is indeed something true and sublime. But all
these times and places and occasions are now and here. God himself
culminates in the present moment, and will never be more divine in the
lapse of all the ages. And we are enabled to apprehend at all what is
sublime and noble only by the perpetual instilling and drenching of
the reality that surrounds us. The universe constantly and obediently
answers to our conceptions; whether we travel fast or slow, the track is
laid for us. Let us spend our lives in conceiving then. The poet or
the artist never yet had so fair and noble a design but some of his
posterity at least could accomplish it.

Let us spend one day as deliberately as Nature, and not be thrown off
the track by every nutshell and mosquito's wing that falls on the
rails. Let us rise early and fast, or break fast, gently and without
perturbation; let company come and let company go, let the bells ring
and the children cry--determined to make a day of it. Why should we
knock under and go with the stream? Let us not be upset and overwhelmed
in that terrible rapid and whirlpool called a dinner, situated in the
meridian shallows. Weather this danger and you are safe, for the rest of
the way is down hill. With unrelaxed nerves, with morning vigor, sail
by it, looking another way, tied to the mast like Ulysses. If the engine
whistles, let it whistle till it is hoarse for its pains. If the bell
rings, why should we run? We will consider what kind of music they are
like. Let us settle ourselves, and work and wedge our feet downward
through the mud and slush of opinion, and prejudice, and tradition, and
delusion, and appearance, that alluvion which covers the globe, through
Paris and London, through New York and Boston and Concord, through
Church and State, through poetry and philosophy and religion, till we
come to a hard bottom and rocks in place, which we can call _reality_, and
say, This is, and no mistake; and then begin, having a _point d'appui_,
below freshet and frost and fire, a place where you might found a
wall or a state, or set a lamp-post safely, or perhaps a gauge, not
a Nilometer, but a Realometer, that future ages might know how deep a
freshet of shams and appearances had gathered from time to time. If you
stand right fronting and face to face to a fact, you will see the sun
glimmer on both its surfaces, as if it were a scimitar, and feel its
sweet edge dividing you through the heart and marrow, and so you will
happily conclude your mortal career. Be it life or death, we crave only
reality. If we are really dying, let us hear the rattle in our throats
and feel cold in the extremities; if we are alive, let us go about our
business.

Time is but the stream I go a-fishing in. I drink at it; but while I
drink I see the sandy bottom and detect how shallow it is. Its thin
current slides away, but eternity remains. I would drink deeper; fish in
the sky, whose bottom is pebbly with stars. I cannot count one. I know
not the first letter of the alphabet. I have always been regretting that
I was not as wise as the day I was born. The intellect is a cleaver; it
discerns and rifts its way into the secret of things. I do not wish to
be any more busy with my hands than is necessary. My head is hands and
feet. I feel all my best faculties concentrated in it. My instinct tells
me that my head is an organ for burrowing, as some creatures use their
snout and fore paws, and with it I would mine and burrow my way through
these hills. I think that the richest vein is somewhere hereabouts;
so by the divining-rod and thin rising vapors I judge; and here I will
begin to mine.




Reading


With a little more deliberation in the choice of their pursuits, all men
would perhaps become essentially students and observers, for certainly
their nature and destiny are interesting to all alike. In accumulating
property for ourselves or our posterity, in founding a family or a
state, or acquiring fame even, we are mortal; but in dealing with
truth we are immortal, and need fear no change nor accident. The oldest
Egyptian or Hindoo philosopher raised a corner of the veil from the
statue of the divinity; and still the trembling robe remains raised, and
I gaze upon as fresh a glory as he did, since it was I in him that was
then so bold, and it is he in me that now reviews the vision. No dust
has settled on that robe; no time has elapsed since that divinity was
revealed. That time which we really improve, or which is improvable, is
neither past, present, nor future.

My residence was more favorable, not only to thought, but to serious
reading, than a university; and though I was beyond the range of the
ordinary circulating library, I had more than ever come within the
influence of those books which circulate round the world, whose
sentences were first written on bark, and are now merely copied from
time to time on to linen paper. Says the poet Mîr Camar Uddîn Mast,
"Being seated, to run through the region of the spiritual world; I have
had this advantage in books. To be intoxicated by a single glass of
wine; I have experienced this pleasure when I have drunk the liquor of
the esoteric doctrines." I kept Homer's Iliad on my table through the
summer, though I looked at his page only now and then. Incessant labor
with my hands, at first, for I had my house to finish and my beans to
hoe at the same time, made more study impossible. Yet I sustained myself
by the prospect of such reading in future. I read one or two shallow
books of travel in the intervals of my work, till that employment made
me ashamed of myself, and I asked where it was then that _I_ lived.

The student may read Homer or Æschylus in the Greek without danger of
dissipation or luxuriousness, for it implies that he in some measure
emulate their heroes, and consecrate morning hours to their pages. The
heroic books, even if printed in the character of our mother tongue,
will always be in a language dead to degenerate times; and we must
laboriously seek the meaning of each word and line, conjecturing a
larger sense than common use permits out of what wisdom and valor and
generosity we have. The modern cheap and fertile press, with all its
translations, has done little to bring us nearer to the heroic writers
of antiquity. They seem as solitary, and the letter in which they
are printed as rare and curious, as ever. It is worth the expense of
youthful days and costly hours, if you learn only some words of an
ancient language, which are raised out of the trivialness of the street,
to be perpetual suggestions and provocations. It is not in vain that the
farmer remembers and repeats the few Latin words which he has heard. Men
sometimes speak as if the study of the classics would at length make way
for more modern and practical studies; but the adventurous student will
always study classics, in whatever language they may be written and
however ancient they may be. For what are the classics but the noblest
recorded thoughts of man? They are the only oracles which are not
decayed, and there are such answers to the most modern inquiry in them
as Delphi and Dodona never gave. We might as well omit to study Nature
because she is old. To read well, that is, to read true books in a true
spirit, is a noble exercise, and one that will task the reader more than
any exercise which the customs of the day esteem. It requires a training
such as the athletes underwent, the steady intention almost of the whole
life to this object. Books must be read as deliberately and reservedly
as they were written. It is not enough even to be able to speak the
language of that nation by which they are written, for there is a
memorable interval between the spoken and the written language, the
language heard and the language read. The one is commonly transitory,
a sound, a tongue, a dialect merely, almost brutish, and we learn
it unconsciously, like the brutes, of our mothers. The other is the
maturity and experience of that; if that is our mother tongue, this is
our father tongue, a reserved and select expression, too significant to
be heard by the ear, which we must be born again in order to speak. The
crowds of men who merely spoke the Greek and Latin tongues in the Middle
Ages were not entitled by the accident of birth to read the works of
genius written in those languages; for these were not written in
that Greek or Latin which they knew, but in the select language of
literature. They had not learned the nobler dialects of Greece and Rome,
but the very materials on which they were written were waste paper to
them, and they prized instead a cheap contemporary literature. But when
the several nations of Europe had acquired distinct though rude written
languages of their own, sufficient for the purposes of their rising
literatures, then first learning revived, and scholars were enabled to
discern from that remoteness the treasures of antiquity. What the Roman
and Grecian multitude could not _hear_, after the lapse of ages a few
scholars _read_, and a few scholars only are still reading it.

However much we may admire the orator's occasional bursts of eloquence,
the noblest written words are commonly as far behind or above the
fleeting spoken language as the firmament with its stars is behind
the clouds. _There_ are the stars, and they who can may read them.
The astronomers forever comment on and observe them. They are not
exhalations like our daily colloquies and vaporous breath. What is
called eloquence in the forum is commonly found to be rhetoric in the
study. The orator yields to the inspiration of a transient occasion, and
speaks to the mob before him, to those who can _hear_ him; but the writer,
whose more equable life is his occasion, and who would be distracted
by the event and the crowd which inspire the orator, speaks to the
intellect and health of mankind, to all in any age who can _understand_
him.

No wonder that Alexander carried the Iliad with him on his expeditions
in a precious casket. A written word is the choicest of relics. It is
something at once more intimate with us and more universal than any
other work of art. It is the work of art nearest to life itself. It may
be translated into every language, and not only be read but actually
breathed from all human lips;--not be represented on canvas or in marble
only, but be carved out of the breath of life itself. The symbol of
an ancient man's thought becomes a modern man's speech. Two thousand
summers have imparted to the monuments of Grecian literature, as to her
marbles, only a maturer golden and autumnal tint, for they have carried
their own serene and celestial atmosphere into all lands to protect them
against the corrosion of time. Books are the treasured wealth of the
world and the fit inheritance of generations and nations. Books, the
oldest and the best, stand naturally and rightfully on the shelves of
every cottage. They have no cause of their own to plead, but while they
enlighten and sustain the reader his common sense will not refuse
them. Their authors are a natural and irresistible aristocracy in
every society, and, more than kings or emperors, exert an influence on
mankind. When the illiterate and perhaps scornful trader has earned by
enterprise and industry his coveted leisure and independence, and is
admitted to the circles of wealth and fashion, he turns inevitably at
last to those still higher but yet inaccessible circles of intellect and
genius, and is sensible only of the imperfection of his culture and the
vanity and insufficiency of all his riches, and further proves his
good sense by the pains which he takes to secure for his children that
intellectual culture whose want he so keenly feels; and thus it is that
he becomes the founder of a family.

Those who have not learned to read the ancient classics in the language
in which they were written must have a very imperfect knowledge of the
history of the human race; for it is remarkable that no transcript of
them has ever been made into any modern tongue, unless our civilization
itself may be regarded as such a transcript. Homer has never yet been
printed in English, nor Æschylus, nor Virgil even--works as refined, as
solidly done, and as beautiful almost as the morning itself; for
later writers, say what we will of their genius, have rarely, if ever,
equalled the elaborate beauty and finish and the lifelong and heroic
literary labors of the ancients. They only talk of forgetting them who
never knew them. It will be soon enough to forget them when we have the
learning and the genius which will enable us to attend to and appreciate
them. That age will be rich indeed when those relics which we call
Classics, and the still older and more than classic but even less known
Scriptures of the nations, shall have still further accumulated, when
the Vaticans shall be filled with Vedas and Zendavestas and Bibles, with
Homers and Dantes and Shakespeares, and all the centuries to come shall
have successively deposited their trophies in the forum of the world. By
such a pile we may hope to scale heaven at last.

The works of the great poets have never yet been read by mankind,
for only great poets can read them. They have only been read as the
multitude read the stars, at most astrologically, not astronomically.
Most men have learned to read to serve a paltry convenience, as they
have learned to cipher in order to keep accounts and not be cheated in
trade; but of reading as a noble intellectual exercise they know little
or nothing; yet this only is reading, in a high sense, not that which
lulls us as a luxury and suffers the nobler faculties to sleep the
while, but what we have to stand on tip-toe to read and devote our most
alert and wakeful hours to.

I think that having learned our letters we should read the best that is
in literature, and not be forever repeating our a-b-abs, and words of
one syllable, in the fourth or fifth classes, sitting on the lowest and
foremost form all our lives. Most men are satisfied if they read or hear
read, and perchance have been convicted by the wisdom of one good book,
the Bible, and for the rest of their lives vegetate and dissipate their
faculties in what is called easy reading. There is a work in several
volumes in our Circulating Library entitled "Little Reading," which I
thought referred to a town of that name which I had not been to. There
are those who, like cormorants and ostriches, can digest all sorts of
this, even after the fullest dinner of meats and vegetables, for they
suffer nothing to be wasted. If others are the machines to provide
this provender, they are the machines to read it. They read the nine
thousandth tale about Zebulon and Sophronia, and how they loved as none
had ever loved before, and neither did the course of their true love run
smooth--at any rate, how it did run and stumble, and get up again and
go on! how some poor unfortunate got up on to a steeple, who had better
never have gone up as far as the belfry; and then, having needlessly
got him up there, the happy novelist rings the bell for all the world to
come together and hear, O dear! how he did get down again! For my part,
I think that they had better metamorphose all such aspiring heroes of
universal noveldom into man weather-cocks, as they used to put heroes
among the constellations, and let them swing round there till they are
rusty, and not come down at all to bother honest men with their pranks.
The next time the novelist rings the bell I will not stir though the
meeting-house burn down. "The Skip of the Tip-Toe-Hop, a Romance of the
Middle Ages, by the celebrated author of 'Tittle-Tol-Tan,' to appear
in monthly parts; a great rush; don't all come together." All this
they read with saucer eyes, and erect and primitive curiosity, and with
unwearied gizzard, whose corrugations even yet need no sharpening, just
as some little four-year-old bencher his two-cent gilt-covered
edition of Cinderella--without any improvement, that I can see, in the
pronunciation, or accent, or emphasis, or any more skill in extracting
or inserting the moral. The result is dulness of sight, a stagnation of
the vital circulations, and a general deliquium and sloughing off of all
the intellectual faculties. This sort of gingerbread is baked daily and
more sedulously than pure wheat or rye-and-Indian in almost every oven,
and finds a surer market.

The best books are not read even by those who are called good readers.
What does our Concord culture amount to? There is in this town, with a
very few exceptions, no taste for the best or for very good books even
in English literature, whose words all can read and spell. Even the
college-bred and so-called liberally educated men here and elsewhere
have really little or no acquaintance with the English classics; and
as for the recorded wisdom of mankind, the ancient classics and Bibles,
which are accessible to all who will know of them, there are the
feeblest efforts anywhere made to become acquainted with them. I know a
woodchopper, of middle age, who takes a French paper, not for news as he
says, for he is above that, but to "keep himself in practice," he being
a Canadian by birth; and when I ask him what he considers the best thing
he can do in this world, he says, beside this, to keep up and add to
his English. This is about as much as the college-bred generally do or
aspire to do, and they take an English paper for the purpose. One who
has just come from reading perhaps one of the best English books will
find how many with whom he can converse about it? Or suppose he comes
from reading a Greek or Latin classic in the original, whose praises are
familiar even to the so-called illiterate; he will find nobody at all
to speak to, but must keep silence about it. Indeed, there is hardly the
professor in our colleges, who, if he has mastered the difficulties of
the language, has proportionally mastered the difficulties of the wit
and poetry of a Greek poet, and has any sympathy to impart to the
alert and heroic reader; and as for the sacred Scriptures, or Bibles of
mankind, who in this town can tell me even their titles? Most men do not
know that any nation but the Hebrews have had a scripture. A man, any
man, will go considerably out of his way to pick up a silver dollar; but
here are golden words, which the wisest men of antiquity have uttered,
and whose worth the wise of every succeeding age have assured us
of;--and yet we learn to read only as far as Easy Reading, the primers
and class-books, and when we leave school, the "Little Reading," and
story-books, which are for boys and beginners; and our reading, our
conversation and thinking, are all on a very low level, worthy only of
pygmies and manikins.

I aspire to be acquainted with wiser men than this our Concord soil has
produced, whose names are hardly known here. Or shall I hear the name of
Plato and never read his book? As if Plato were my townsman and I never
saw him--my next neighbor and I never heard him speak or attended to
the wisdom of his words. But how actually is it? His Dialogues, which
contain what was immortal in him, lie on the next shelf, and yet I never
read them. We are underbred and low-lived and illiterate; and in this
respect I confess I do not make any very broad distinction between
the illiterateness of my townsman who cannot read at all and the
illiterateness of him who has learned to read only what is for
children and feeble intellects. We should be as good as the worthies of
antiquity, but partly by first knowing how good they were. We are a race
of tit-men, and soar but little higher in our intellectual flights than
the columns of the daily paper.

It is not all books that are as dull as their readers. There are
probably words addressed to our condition exactly, which, if we could
really hear and understand, would be more salutary than the morning or
the spring to our lives, and possibly put a new aspect on the face of
things for us. How many a man has dated a new era in his life from the
reading of a book! The book exists for us, perchance, which will explain
our miracles and reveal new ones. The at present unutterable things we
may find somewhere uttered. These same questions that disturb and puzzle
and confound us have in their turn occurred to all the wise men; not one
has been omitted; and each has answered them, according to his ability,
by his words and his life. Moreover, with wisdom we shall learn
liberality. The solitary hired man on a farm in the outskirts of
Concord, who has had his second birth and peculiar religious experience,
and is driven as he believes into the silent gravity and exclusiveness
by his faith, may think it is not true; but Zoroaster, thousands of
years ago, travelled the same road and had the same experience; but
he, being wise, knew it to be universal, and treated his neighbors
accordingly, and is even said to have invented and established worship
among men. Let him humbly commune with Zoroaster then, and through the
liberalizing influence of all the worthies, with Jesus Christ himself,
and let "our church" go by the board.

We boast that we belong to the Nineteenth Century and are making the
most rapid strides of any nation. But consider how little this village
does for its own culture. I do not wish to flatter my townsmen, nor to
be flattered by them, for that will not advance either of us. We need
to be provoked--goaded like oxen, as we are, into a trot. We have a
comparatively decent system of common schools, schools for infants only;
but excepting the half-starved Lyceum in the winter, and latterly
the puny beginning of a library suggested by the State, no school for
ourselves. We spend more on almost any article of bodily aliment or
ailment than on our mental aliment. It is time that we had uncommon
schools, that we did not leave off our education when we begin to be men
and women. It is time that villages were universities, and their elder
inhabitants the fellows of universities, with leisure--if they are,
indeed, so well off--to pursue liberal studies the rest of their lives.
Shall the world be confined to one Paris or one Oxford forever? Cannot
students be boarded here and get a liberal education under the skies of
Concord? Can we not hire some Abelard to lecture to us? Alas! what with
foddering the cattle and tending the store, we are kept from school too
long, and our education is sadly neglected. In this country, the village
should in some respects take the place of the nobleman of Europe. It
should be the patron of the fine arts. It is rich enough. It wants only
the magnanimity and refinement. It can spend money enough on such things
as farmers and traders value, but it is thought Utopian to propose
spending money for things which more intelligent men know to be of
far more worth. This town has spent seventeen thousand dollars on a
town-house, thank fortune or politics, but probably it will not spend so
much on living wit, the true meat to put into that shell, in a hundred
years. The one hundred and twenty-five dollars annually subscribed for a
Lyceum in the winter is better spent than any other equal sum raised in
the town. If we live in the Nineteenth Century, why should we not enjoy
the advantages which the Nineteenth Century offers? Why should our life
be in any respect provincial? If we will read newspapers, why not
skip the gossip of Boston and take the best newspaper in the world at
once?--not be sucking the pap of "neutral family" papers, or browsing
"Olive Branches" here in New England. Let the reports of all the learned
societies come to us, and we will see if they know anything. Why
should we leave it to Harper & Brothers and Redding & Co. to select
our reading? As the nobleman of cultivated taste surrounds himself
with whatever conduces to his culture--genius--learning--wit--books--
paintings--statuary--music--philosophical instruments, and the like; so
let the village do--not stop short at a pedagogue, a parson, a sexton, a
parish library, and three selectmen, because our Pilgrim forefathers got
through a cold winter once on a bleak rock with these. To act
collectively is according to the spirit of our institutions; and I am
confident that, as our circumstances are more flourishing, our means are
greater than the nobleman's. New England can hire all the wise men in
the world to come and teach her, and board them round the while, and not
be provincial at all. That is the _uncommon_ school we want. Instead of
noblemen, let us have noble villages of men. If it is necessary, omit
one bridge over the river, go round a little there, and throw one arch
at least over the darker gulf of ignorance which surrounds us.




Sounds


But while we are confined to books, though the most select and classic,
and read only particular written languages, which are themselves but
dialects and provincial, we are in danger of forgetting the language
which all things and events speak without metaphor, which alone is
copious and standard. Much is published, but little printed. The rays
which stream through the shutter will be no longer remembered when the
shutter is wholly removed. No method nor discipline can supersede the
necessity of being forever on the alert. What is a course of history or
philosophy, or poetry, no matter how well selected, or the best society,
or the most admirable routine of life, compared with the discipline of
looking always at what is to be seen? Will you be a reader, a student
merely, or a seer? Read your fate, see what is before you, and walk on
into futurity.

I did not read books the first summer; I hoed beans. Nay, I often did
better than this. There were times when I could not afford to sacrifice
the bloom of the present moment to any work, whether of the head or
hands. I love a broad margin to my life. Sometimes, in a summer morning,
having taken my accustomed bath, I sat in my sunny doorway from sunrise
till noon, rapt in a revery, amidst the pines and hickories and sumachs,
in undisturbed solitude and stillness, while the birds sing around or
flitted noiseless through the house, until by the sun falling in at
my west window, or the noise of some traveller's wagon on the distant
highway, I was reminded of the lapse of time. I grew in those seasons
like corn in the night, and they were far better than any work of the
hands would have been. They were not time subtracted from my life, but
so much over and above my usual allowance. I realized what the Orientals
mean by contemplation and the forsaking of works. For the most part, I
minded not how the hours went. The day advanced as if to light some
work of mine; it was morning, and lo, now it is evening, and nothing
memorable is accomplished. Instead of singing like the birds, I silently
smiled at my incessant good fortune. As the sparrow had its trill,
sitting on the hickory before my door, so had I my chuckle or suppressed
warble which he might hear out of my nest. My days were not days of the
week, bearing the stamp of any heathen deity, nor were they minced into
hours and fretted by the ticking of a clock; for I lived like the Puri
Indians, of whom it is said that "for yesterday, today, and tomorrow
they have only one word, and they express the variety of meaning by
pointing backward for yesterday forward for tomorrow, and overhead for
the passing day." This was sheer idleness to my fellow-townsmen, no
doubt; but if the birds and flowers had tried me by their standard, I
should not have been found wanting. A man must find his occasions in
himself, it is true. The natural day is very calm, and will hardly
reprove his indolence.

I had this advantage, at least, in my mode of life, over those who were
obliged to look abroad for amusement, to society and the theatre, that
my life itself was become my amusement and never ceased to be novel.
It was a drama of many scenes and without an end. If we were always,
indeed, getting our living, and regulating our lives according to the
last and best mode we had learned, we should never be troubled with
ennui. Follow your genius closely enough, and it will not fail to show
you a fresh prospect every hour. Housework was a pleasant pastime. When
my floor was dirty, I rose early, and, setting all my furniture out of
doors on the grass, bed and bedstead making but one budget, dashed water
on the floor, and sprinkled white sand from the pond on it, and then
with a broom scrubbed it clean and white; and by the time the villagers
had broken their fast the morning sun had dried my house sufficiently to
allow me to move in again, and my meditations were almost uninterupted.
It was pleasant to see my whole household effects out on the grass,
making a little pile like a gypsy's pack, and my three-legged table,
from which I did not remove the books and pen and ink, standing amid the
pines and hickories. They seemed glad to get out themselves, and as if
unwilling to be brought in. I was sometimes tempted to stretch an awning
over them and take my seat there. It was worth the while to see the sun
shine on these things, and hear the free wind blow on them; so much more
interesting most familiar objects look out of doors than in the house. A
bird sits on the next bough, life-everlasting grows under the table,
and blackberry vines run round its legs; pine cones, chestnut burs, and
strawberry leaves are strewn about. It looked as if this was the way
these forms came to be transferred to our furniture, to tables, chairs,
and bedsteads--because they once stood in their midst.

My house was on the side of a hill, immediately on the edge of
the larger wood, in the midst of a young forest of pitch pines and
hickories, and half a dozen rods from the pond, to which a narrow
footpath led down the hill. In my front yard grew the strawberry,
blackberry, and life-everlasting, johnswort and goldenrod, shrub oaks
and sand cherry, blueberry and groundnut. Near the end of May, the sand
cherry (_Cerasus pumila_) adorned the sides of the path with its delicate
flowers arranged in umbels cylindrically about its short stems, which
last, in the fall, weighed down with good-sized and handsome cherries,
fell over in wreaths like rays on every side. I tasted them out of
compliment to Nature, though they were scarcely palatable. The sumach
(_Rhus glabra_) grew luxuriantly about the house, pushing up through the
embankment which I had made, and growing five or six feet the first
season. Its broad pinnate tropical leaf was pleasant though strange to
look on. The large buds, suddenly pushing out late in the spring from
dry sticks which had seemed to be dead, developed themselves as by
magic into graceful green and tender boughs, an inch in diameter; and
sometimes, as I sat at my window, so heedlessly did they grow and tax
their weak joints, I heard a fresh and tender bough suddenly fall like
a fan to the ground, when there was not a breath of air stirring, broken
off by its own weight. In August, the large masses of berries, which,
when in flower, had attracted many wild bees, gradually assumed their
bright velvety crimson hue, and by their weight again bent down and
broke the tender limbs.

       *       *       *       *       *

As I sit at my window this summer afternoon, hawks are circling about my
clearing; the tantivy of wild pigeons, flying by two and threes athwart
my view, or perching restless on the white pine boughs behind my house,
gives a voice to the air; a fish hawk dimples the glassy surface of the
pond and brings up a fish; a mink steals out of the marsh before my door
and seizes a frog by the shore; the sedge is bending under the weight of
the reed-birds flitting hither and thither; and for the last half-hour I
have heard the rattle of railroad cars, now dying away and then reviving
like the beat of a partridge, conveying travellers from Boston to the
country. For I did not live so out of the world as that boy who, as I
hear, was put out to a farmer in the east part of the town, but ere long
ran away and came home again, quite down at the heel and homesick. He
had never seen such a dull and out-of-the-way place; the folks were all
gone off; why, you couldn't even hear the whistle! I doubt if there is
such a place in Massachusetts now:--

      "In truth, our village has become a butt
       For one of those fleet railroad shafts, and o'er
       Our peaceful plain its soothing sound is--Concord."

The Fitchburg Railroad touches the pond about a hundred rods south of
where I dwell. I usually go to the village along its causeway, and am,
as it were, related to society by this link. The men on the freight
trains, who go over the whole length of the road, bow to me as to an old
acquaintance, they pass me so often, and apparently they take me for an
employee; and so I am. I too would fain be a track-repairer somewhere in
the orbit of the earth.

The whistle of the locomotive penetrates my woods summer and winter,
sounding like the scream of a hawk sailing over some farmer's yard,
informing me that many restless city merchants are arriving within the
circle of the town, or adventurous country traders from the other side.
As they come under one horizon, they shout their warning to get off the
track to the other, heard sometimes through the circles of two towns.
Here come your groceries, country; your rations, countrymen! Nor is
there any man so independent on his farm that he can say them nay. And
here's your pay for them! screams the countryman's whistle; timber like
long battering-rams going twenty miles an hour against the city's walls,
and chairs enough to seat all the weary and heavy-laden that dwell
within them. With such huge and lumbering civility the country hands a
chair to the city. All the Indian huckleberry hills are stripped, all
the cranberry meadows are raked into the city. Up comes the cotton, down
goes the woven cloth; up comes the silk, down goes the woollen; up come
the books, but down goes the wit that writes them.

When I meet the engine with its train of cars moving off with planetary
motion--or, rather, like a comet, for the beholder knows not if with
that velocity and with that direction it will ever revisit this system,
since its orbit does not look like a returning curve--with its steam
cloud like a banner streaming behind in golden and silver wreaths, like
many a downy cloud which I have seen, high in the heavens, unfolding its
masses to the light--as if this traveling demigod, this cloud-compeller,
would ere long take the sunset sky for the livery of his train; when
I hear the iron horse make the hills echo with his snort like thunder,
shaking the earth with his feet, and breathing fire and smoke from his
nostrils (what kind of winged horse or fiery dragon they will put into
the new Mythology I don't know), it seems as if the earth had got a
race now worthy to inhabit it. If all were as it seems, and men made the
elements their servants for noble ends! If the cloud that hangs over the
engine were the perspiration of heroic deeds, or as beneficent as that
which floats over the farmer's fields, then the elements and Nature
herself would cheerfully accompany men on their errands and be their
escort.

I watch the passage of the morning cars with the same feeling that I
do the rising of the sun, which is hardly more regular. Their train
of clouds stretching far behind and rising higher and higher, going to
heaven while the cars are going to Boston, conceals the sun for a minute
and casts my distant field into the shade, a celestial train beside
which the petty train of cars which hugs the earth is but the barb
of the spear. The stabler of the iron horse was up early this winter
morning by the light of the stars amid the mountains, to fodder and
harness his steed. Fire, too, was awakened thus early to put the vital
heat in him and get him off. If the enterprise were as innocent as it is
early! If the snow lies deep, they strap on his snowshoes, and, with the
giant plow, plow a furrow from the mountains to the seaboard, in which
the cars, like a following drill-barrow, sprinkle all the restless men
and floating merchandise in the country for seed. All day the fire-steed
flies over the country, stopping only that his master may rest, and I am
awakened by his tramp and defiant snort at midnight, when in some remote
glen in the woods he fronts the elements incased in ice and snow; and he
will reach his stall only with the morning star, to start once more on
his travels without rest or slumber. Or perchance, at evening, I hear
him in his stable blowing off the superfluous energy of the day, that he
may calm his nerves and cool his liver and brain for a few hours of
iron slumber. If the enterprise were as heroic and commanding as it is
protracted and unwearied!

Far through unfrequented woods on the confines of towns, where once only
the hunter penetrated by day, in the darkest night dart these bright
saloons without the knowledge of their inhabitants; this moment stopping
at some brilliant station-house in town or city, where a social crowd
is gathered, the next in the Dismal Swamp, scaring the owl and fox. The
startings and arrivals of the cars are now the epochs in the village
day. They go and come with such regularity and precision, and their
whistle can be heard so far, that the farmers set their clocks by them,
and thus one well-conducted institution regulates a whole country.
Have not men improved somewhat in punctuality since the railroad was
invented? Do they not talk and think faster in the depot than they did
in the stage-office? There is something electrifying in the atmosphere
of the former place. I have been astonished at the miracles it has
wrought; that some of my neighbors, who, I should have prophesied, once
for all, would never get to Boston by so prompt a conveyance, are on
hand when the bell rings. To do things "railroad fashion" is now the
byword; and it is worth the while to be warned so often and so sincerely
by any power to get off its track. There is no stopping to read the
riot act, no firing over the heads of the mob, in this case. We have
constructed a fate, an _Atropos_, that never turns aside. (Let that be
the name of your engine.) Men are advertised that at a certain hour and
minute these bolts will be shot toward particular points of the compass;
yet it interferes with no man's business, and the children go to school
on the other track. We live the steadier for it. We are all educated
thus to be sons of Tell. The air is full of invisible bolts. Every path
but your own is the path of fate. Keep on your own track, then.

What recommends commerce to me is its enterprise and bravery. It does
not clasp its hands and pray to Jupiter. I see these men every day go
about their business with more or less courage and content, doing more
even than they suspect, and perchance better employed than they could
have consciously devised. I am less affected by their heroism who stood
up for half an hour in the front line at Buena Vista, than by the steady
and cheerful valor of the men who inhabit the snowplow for their winter
quarters; who have not merely the three-o'-clock-in-the-morning courage,
which Bonaparte thought was the rarest, but whose courage does not go to
rest so early, who go to sleep only when the storm sleeps or the sinews
of their iron steed are frozen. On this morning of the Great Snow,
perchance, which is still raging and chilling men's blood, I bear the
muffled tone of their engine bell from out the fog bank of their chilled
breath, which announces that the cars _are coming_, without long delay,
notwithstanding the veto of a New England northeast snow-storm, and
I behold the plowmen covered with snow and rime, their heads peering,
above the mould-board which is turning down other than daisies and the
nests of field mice, like bowlders of the Sierra Nevada, that occupy an
outside place in the universe.

Commerce is unexpectedly confident and serene, alert, adventurous, and
unwearied. It is very natural in its methods withal, far more so than
many fantastic enterprises and sentimental experiments, and hence its
singular success. I am refreshed and expanded when the freight train
rattles past me, and I smell the stores which go dispensing their odors
all the way from Long Wharf to Lake Champlain, reminding me of foreign
parts, of coral reefs, and Indian oceans, and tropical climes, and the
extent of the globe. I feel more like a citizen of the world at the
sight of the palm-leaf which will cover so many flaxen New England heads
the next summer, the Manilla hemp and cocoanut husks, the old junk,
gunny bags, scrap iron, and rusty nails. This carload of torn sails is
more legible and interesting now than if they should be wrought into
paper and printed books. Who can write so graphically the history of
the storms they have weathered as these rents have done? They are
proof-sheets which need no correction. Here goes lumber from the Maine
woods, which did not go out to sea in the last freshet, risen four
dollars on the thousand because of what did go out or was split up;
pine, spruce, cedar--first, second, third, and fourth qualities,
so lately all of one quality, to wave over the bear, and moose, and
caribou. Next rolls Thomaston lime, a prime lot, which will get far
among the hills before it gets slacked. These rags in bales, of all hues
and qualities, the lowest condition to which cotton and linen descend,
the final result of dress--of patterns which are now no longer cried up,
unless it be in Milwaukee, as those splendid articles, English, French,
or American prints, ginghams, muslins, etc., gathered from all quarters
both of fashion and poverty, going to become paper of one color or a
few shades only, on which, forsooth, will be written tales of real life,
high and low, and founded on fact! This closed car smells of salt fish,
the strong New England and commercial scent, reminding me of the Grand
Banks and the fisheries. Who has not seen a salt fish, thoroughly
cured for this world, so that nothing can spoil it, and putting the
perseverance of the saints to the blush? with which you may sweep or
pave the streets, and split your kindlings, and the teamster shelter
himself and his lading against sun, wind, and rain behind it--and the
trader, as a Concord trader once did, hang it up by his door for a sign
when he commences business, until at last his oldest customer cannot
tell surely whether it be animal, vegetable, or mineral, and yet it
shall be as pure as a snowflake, and if it be put into a pot and boiled,
will come out an excellent dun-fish for a Saturday's dinner. Next
Spanish hides, with the tails still preserving their twist and the angle
of elevation they had when the oxen that wore them were careering over
the pampas of the Spanish Main--a type of all obstinacy, and evincing
how almost hopeless and incurable are all constitutional vices. I
confess, that practically speaking, when I have learned a man's real
disposition, I have no hopes of changing it for the better or worse
in this state of existence. As the Orientals say, "A cur's tail may be
warmed, and pressed, and bound round with ligatures, and after a twelve
years' labor bestowed upon it, still it will retain its natural form."
The only effectual cure for such inveteracies as these tails exhibit is
to make glue of them, which I believe is what is usually done with them,
and then they will stay put and stick. Here is a hogshead of molasses
or of brandy directed to John Smith, Cuttingsville, Vermont, some
trader among the Green Mountains, who imports for the farmers near his
clearing, and now perchance stands over his bulkhead and thinks of
the last arrivals on the coast, how they may affect the price for him,
telling his customers this moment, as he has told them twenty times
before this morning, that he expects some by the next train of prime
quality. It is advertised in the Cuttingsville Times.

While these things go up other things come down. Warned by the whizzing
sound, I look up from my book and see some tall pine, hewn on far
northern hills, which has winged its way over the Green Mountains and
the Connecticut, shot like an arrow through the township within ten
minutes, and scarce another eye beholds it; going

                          "to be the mast
                 Of some great ammiral."

And hark! here comes the cattle-train bearing the cattle of a thousand
hills, sheepcots, stables, and cow-yards in the air, drovers with their
sticks, and shepherd boys in the midst of their flocks, all but the
mountain pastures, whirled along like leaves blown from the mountains by
the September gales. The air is filled with the bleating of calves and
sheep, and the hustling of oxen, as if a pastoral valley were going by.
When the old bell-wether at the head rattles his bell, the mountains
do indeed skip like rams and the little hills like lambs. A carload
of drovers, too, in the midst, on a level with their droves now, their
vocation gone, but still clinging to their useless sticks as their badge
of office. But their dogs, where are they? It is a stampede to them;
they are quite thrown out; they have lost the scent. Methinks I hear
them barking behind the Peterboro' Hills, or panting up the western
slope of the Green Mountains. They will not be in at the death. Their
vocation, too, is gone. Their fidelity and sagacity are below par now.
They will slink back to their kennels in disgrace, or perchance run wild
and strike a league with the wolf and the fox. So is your pastoral life
whirled past and away. But the bell rings, and I must get off the track
and let the cars go by;--

                  What's the railroad to me?
                  I never go to see
                  Where it ends.
                  It fills a few hollows,
                  And makes banks for the swallows,
                  It sets the sand a-blowing,
                  And the blackberries a-growing,

but I cross it like a cart-path in the woods. I will not have my eyes
put out and my ears spoiled by its smoke and steam and hissing.

       *       *       *       *       *

Now that the cars are gone by and all the restless world with them, and
the fishes in the pond no longer feel their rumbling, I am more alone
than ever. For the rest of the long afternoon, perhaps, my meditations
are interrupted only by the faint rattle of a carriage or team along the
distant highway.

Sometimes, on Sundays, I heard the bells, the Lincoln, Acton, Bedford,
or Concord bell, when the wind was favorable, a faint, sweet, and, as
it were, natural melody, worth importing into the wilderness. At
a sufficient distance over the woods this sound acquires a certain
vibratory hum, as if the pine needles in the horizon were the strings of
a harp which it swept. All sound heard at the greatest possible distance
produces one and the same effect, a vibration of the universal lyre,
just as the intervening atmosphere makes a distant ridge of earth
interesting to our eyes by the azure tint it imparts to it. There came
to me in this case a melody which the air had strained, and which had
conversed with every leaf and needle of the wood, that portion of the
sound which the elements had taken up and modulated and echoed from vale
to vale. The echo is, to some extent, an original sound, and therein
is the magic and charm of it. It is not merely a repetition of what was
worth repeating in the bell, but partly the voice of the wood; the same
trivial words and notes sung by a wood-nymph.

At evening, the distant lowing of some cow in the horizon beyond the
woods sounded sweet and melodious, and at first I would mistake it for
the voices of certain minstrels by whom I was sometimes serenaded, who
might be straying over hill and dale; but soon I was not unpleasantly
disappointed when it was prolonged into the cheap and natural music of
the cow. I do not mean to be satirical, but to express my appreciation
of those youths' singing, when I state that I perceived clearly that
it was akin to the music of the cow, and they were at length one
articulation of Nature.

Regularly at half-past seven, in one part of the summer, after the
evening train had gone by, the whip-poor-wills chanted their vespers for
half an hour, sitting on a stump by my door, or upon the ridge-pole of
the house. They would begin to sing almost with as much precision as a
clock, within five minutes of a particular time, referred to the setting
of the sun, every evening. I had a rare opportunity to become acquainted
with their habits. Sometimes I heard four or five at once in different
parts of the wood, by accident one a bar behind another, and so near me
that I distinguished not only the cluck after each note, but often that
singular buzzing sound like a fly in a spider's web, only proportionally
louder. Sometimes one would circle round and round me in the woods a few
feet distant as if tethered by a string, when probably I was near its
eggs. They sang at intervals throughout the night, and were again as
musical as ever just before and about dawn.

When other birds are still, the screech owls take up the strain, like
mourning women their ancient u-lu-lu. Their dismal scream is truly Ben
Jonsonian. Wise midnight hags! It is no honest and blunt tu-whit tu-who
of the poets, but, without jesting, a most solemn graveyard ditty, the
mutual consolations of suicide lovers remembering the pangs and the
delights of supernal love in the infernal groves. Yet I love to hear
their wailing, their doleful responses, trilled along the woodside;
reminding me sometimes of music and singing birds; as if it were the
dark and tearful side of music, the regrets and sighs that would fain be
sung. They are the spirits, the low spirits and melancholy forebodings,
of fallen souls that once in human shape night-walked the earth and did
the deeds of darkness, now expiating their sins with their wailing hymns
or threnodies in the scenery of their transgressions. They give me a
new sense of the variety and capacity of that nature which is our common
dwelling. _Oh-o-o-o-o that I never had been bor-r-r-r-n!_ sighs one on
this side of the pond, and circles with the restlessness of despair
to some new perch on the gray oaks. Then--_that I never had been
bor-r-r-r-n!_ echoes another on the farther side with tremulous
sincerity, and--_bor-r-r-r-n!_ comes faintly from far in the Lincoln
woods.

I was also serenaded by a hooting owl. Near at hand you could fancy
it the most melancholy sound in Nature, as if she meant by this to
stereotype and make permanent in her choir the dying moans of a human
being--some poor weak relic of mortality who has left hope behind, and
howls like an animal, yet with human sobs, on entering the dark valley,
made more awful by a certain gurgling melodiousness--I find myself
beginning with the letters _gl_ when I try to imitate it--expressive of
a mind which has reached the gelatinous, mildewy stage in the
mortification of all healthy and courageous thought. It reminded me
of ghouls and idiots and insane howlings. But now one answers from far
woods in a strain made really melodious by distance--_Hoo hoo hoo,
hoorer hoo_; and indeed for the most part it suggested only pleasing
associations, whether heard by day or night, summer or winter.

I rejoice that there are owls. Let them do the idiotic and maniacal
hooting for men. It is a sound admirably suited to swamps and twilight
woods which no day illustrates, suggesting a vast and undeveloped nature
which men have not recognized. They represent the stark twilight and
unsatisfied thoughts which all have. All day the sun has shone on the
surface of some savage swamp, where the single spruce stands hung with
usnea lichens, and small hawks circulate above, and the chickadee lisps
amid the evergreens, and the partridge and rabbit skulk beneath; but now
a more dismal and fitting day dawns, and a different race of creatures
awakes to express the meaning of Nature there.

Late in the evening I heard the distant rumbling of wagons over
bridges--a sound heard farther than almost any other at night--the
baying of dogs, and sometimes again the lowing of some disconsolate cow
in a distant barn-yard. In the mean-while all the shore rang with the
trump of bullfrogs, the sturdy spirits of ancient wine-bibbers and
wassailers, still unrepentant, trying to sing a catch in their Stygian
lake--if the Walden nymphs will pardon the comparison, for though there
are almost no weeds, there are frogs there--who would fain keep up the
hilarious rules of their old festal tables, though their voices have
waxed hoarse and solemnly grave, mocking at mirth, and the wine has lost
its flavor, and become only liquor to distend their paunches, and sweet
intoxication never comes to drown the memory of the past, but mere
saturation and waterloggedness and distention. The most aldermanic, with
his chin upon a heart-leaf, which serves for a napkin to his drooling
chaps, under this northern shore quaffs a deep draught of the
once scorned water, and passes round the cup with the ejaculation
_tr-r-r-oonk, tr-r-r--oonk, tr-r-r-oonk!_ and straightway comes over the
water from some distant cove the same password repeated, where the
next in seniority and girth has gulped down to his mark; and when this
observance has made the circuit of the shores, then ejaculates the
master of ceremonies, with satisfaction, _tr-r-r-oonk!_ and each in
his turn repeats the same down to the least distended, leakiest, and
flabbiest paunched, that there be no mistake; and then the howl goes
round again and again, until the sun disperses the morning mist, and
only the patriarch is not under the pond, but vainly bellowing _troonk_
from time to time, and pausing for a reply.

I am not sure that I ever heard the sound of cock-crowing from my
clearing, and I thought that it might be worth the while to keep a
cockerel for his music merely, as a singing bird. The note of this once
wild Indian pheasant is certainly the most remarkable of any bird's, and
if they could be naturalized without being domesticated, it would soon
become the most famous sound in our woods, surpassing the clangor of the
goose and the hooting of the owl; and then imagine the cackling of the
hens to fill the pauses when their lords' clarions rested! No wonder
that man added this bird to his tame stock--to say nothing of the eggs
and drumsticks. To walk in a winter morning in a wood where these birds
abounded, their native woods, and hear the wild cockerels crow on the
trees, clear and shrill for miles over the resounding earth, drowning
the feebler notes of other birds--think of it! It would put nations on
the alert. Who would not be early to rise, and rise earlier and earlier
every successive day of his life, till he became unspeakably healthy,
wealthy, and wise? This foreign bird's note is celebrated by the poets
of all countries along with the notes of their native songsters. All
climates agree with brave Chanticleer. He is more indigenous even than
the natives. His health is ever good, his lungs are sound, his spirits
never flag. Even the sailor on the Atlantic and Pacific is awakened by
his voice; but its shrill sound never roused me from my slumbers. I kept
neither dog, cat, cow, pig, nor hens, so that you would have said
there was a deficiency of domestic sounds; neither the churn, nor the
spinning-wheel, nor even the singing of the kettle, nor the hissing of
the urn, nor children crying, to comfort one. An old-fashioned man would
have lost his senses or died of ennui before this. Not even rats in the
wall, for they were starved out, or rather were never baited in--only
squirrels on the roof and under the floor, a whip-poor-will on the
ridge-pole, a blue jay screaming beneath the window, a hare or woodchuck
under the house, a screech owl or a cat owl behind it, a flock of wild
geese or a laughing loon on the pond, and a fox to bark in the night.
Not even a lark or an oriole, those mild plantation birds, ever visited
my clearing. No cockerels to crow nor hens to cackle in the yard. No
yard! but unfenced nature reaching up to your very sills. A young forest
growing up under your meadows, and wild sumachs and blackberry vines
breaking through into your cellar; sturdy pitch pines rubbing and
creaking against the shingles for want of room, their roots reaching
quite under the house. Instead of a scuttle or a blind blown off in the
gale--a pine tree snapped off or torn up by the roots behind your
house for fuel. Instead of no path to the front-yard gate in the Great
Snow--no gate--no front-yard--and no path to the civilized world.




Solitude


This is a delicious evening, when the whole body is one sense, and
imbibes delight through every pore. I go and come with a strange liberty
in Nature, a part of herself. As I walk along the stony shore of the
pond in my shirt-sleeves, though it is cool as well as cloudy and windy,
and I see nothing special to attract me, all the elements are unusually
congenial to me. The bullfrogs trump to usher in the night, and the note
of the whip-poor-will is borne on the rippling wind from over the water.
Sympathy with the fluttering alder and poplar leaves almost takes away
my breath; yet, like the lake, my serenity is rippled but not ruffled.
These small waves raised by the evening wind are as remote from storm
as the smooth reflecting surface. Though it is now dark, the wind still
blows and roars in the wood, the waves still dash, and some creatures
lull the rest with their notes. The repose is never complete. The
wildest animals do not repose, but seek their prey now; the fox, and
skunk, and rabbit, now roam the fields and woods without fear. They are
Nature's watchmen--links which connect the days of animated life.

When I return to my house I find that visitors have been there and left
their cards, either a bunch of flowers, or a wreath of evergreen, or a
name in pencil on a yellow walnut leaf or a chip. They who come rarely
to the woods take some little piece of the forest into their hands
to play with by the way, which they leave, either intentionally or
accidentally. One has peeled a willow wand, woven it into a ring, and
dropped it on my table. I could always tell if visitors had called in
my absence, either by the bended twigs or grass, or the print of their
shoes, and generally of what sex or age or quality they were by some
slight trace left, as a flower dropped, or a bunch of grass plucked and
thrown away, even as far off as the railroad, half a mile distant, or by
the lingering odor of a cigar or pipe. Nay, I was frequently notified of
the passage of a traveller along the highway sixty rods off by the scent
of his pipe.

There is commonly sufficient space about us. Our horizon is never quite
at our elbows. The thick wood is not just at our door, nor the pond, but
somewhat is always clearing, familiar and worn by us, appropriated and
fenced in some way, and reclaimed from Nature. For what reason have I
this vast range and circuit, some square miles of unfrequented forest,
for my privacy, abandoned to me by men? My nearest neighbor is a mile
distant, and no house is visible from any place but the hill-tops within
half a mile of my own. I have my horizon bounded by woods all to myself;
a distant view of the railroad where it touches the pond on the one
hand, and of the fence which skirts the woodland road on the other. But
for the most part it is as solitary where I live as on the prairies. It
is as much Asia or Africa as New England. I have, as it were, my own sun
and moon and stars, and a little world all to myself. At night there was
never a traveller passed my house, or knocked at my door, more than if
I were the first or last man; unless it were in the spring, when at long
intervals some came from the village to fish for pouts--they plainly
fished much more in the Walden Pond of their own natures, and baited
their hooks with darkness--but they soon retreated, usually with light
baskets, and left "the world to darkness and to me," and the black
kernel of the night was never profaned by any human neighborhood. I
believe that men are generally still a little afraid of the dark,
though the witches are all hung, and Christianity and candles have been
introduced.

Yet I experienced sometimes that the most sweet and tender, the most
innocent and encouraging society may be found in any natural object,
even for the poor misanthrope and most melancholy man. There can be no
very black melancholy to him who lives in the midst of Nature and has
his senses still. There was never yet such a storm but it was Æolian
music to a healthy and innocent ear. Nothing can rightly compel a simple
and brave man to a vulgar sadness. While I enjoy the friendship of the
seasons I trust that nothing can make life a burden to me. The gentle
rain which waters my beans and keeps me in the house today is not drear
and melancholy, but good for me too. Though it prevents my hoeing them,
it is of far more worth than my hoeing. If it should continue so long as
to cause the seeds to rot in the ground and destroy the potatoes in the
low lands, it would still be good for the grass on the uplands, and,
being good for the grass, it would be good for me. Sometimes, when I
compare myself with other men, it seems as if I were more favored by the
gods than they, beyond any deserts that I am conscious of; as if I had
a warrant and surety at their hands which my fellows have not, and were
especially guided and guarded. I do not flatter myself, but if it be
possible they flatter me. I have never felt lonesome, or in the least
oppressed by a sense of solitude, but once, and that was a few weeks
after I came to the woods, when, for an hour, I doubted if the near
neighborhood of man was not essential to a serene and healthy life. To
be alone was something unpleasant. But I was at the same time conscious
of a slight insanity in my mood, and seemed to foresee my recovery.
In the midst of a gentle rain while these thoughts prevailed, I was
suddenly sensible of such sweet and beneficent society in Nature, in
the very pattering of the drops, and in every sound and sight around my
house, an infinite and unaccountable friendliness all at once like
an atmosphere sustaining me, as made the fancied advantages of human
neighborhood insignificant, and I have never thought of them since.
Every little pine needle expanded and swelled with sympathy and
befriended me. I was so distinctly made aware of the presence of
something kindred to me, even in scenes which we are accustomed to call
wild and dreary, and also that the nearest of blood to me and humanest
was not a person nor a villager, that I thought no place could ever be
strange to me again.

          "Mourning untimely consumes the sad;
           Few are their days in the land of the living,
           Beautiful daughter of Toscar."

Some of my pleasantest hours were during the long rain-storms in the
spring or fall, which confined me to the house for the afternoon as well
as the forenoon, soothed by their ceaseless roar and pelting; when an
early twilight ushered in a long evening in which many thoughts had time
to take root and unfold themselves. In those driving northeast rains
which tried the village houses so, when the maids stood ready with mop
and pail in front entries to keep the deluge out, I sat behind my door
in my little house, which was all entry, and thoroughly enjoyed its
protection. In one heavy thunder-shower the lightning struck a large
pitch pine across the pond, making a very conspicuous and perfectly
regular spiral groove from top to bottom, an inch or more deep, and four
or five inches wide, as you would groove a walking-stick. I passed it
again the other day, and was struck with awe on looking up and beholding
that mark, now more distinct than ever, where a terrific and resistless
bolt came down out of the harmless sky eight years ago. Men frequently
say to me, "I should think you would feel lonesome down there, and want
to be nearer to folks, rainy and snowy days and nights especially." I
am tempted to reply to such--This whole earth which we inhabit is but
a point in space. How far apart, think you, dwell the two most distant
inhabitants of yonder star, the breadth of whose disk cannot be
appreciated by our instruments? Why should I feel lonely? is not our
planet in the Milky Way? This which you put seems to me not to be the
most important question. What sort of space is that which separates
a man from his fellows and makes him solitary? I have found that no
exertion of the legs can bring two minds much nearer to one another.
What do we want most to dwell near to? Not to many men surely,
the depot, the post-office, the bar-room, the meeting-house, the
school-house, the grocery, Beacon Hill, or the Five Points, where men
most congregate, but to the perennial source of our life, whence in all
our experience we have found that to issue, as the willow stands near
the water and sends out its roots in that direction. This will vary with
different natures, but this is the place where a wise man will dig
his cellar.... I one evening overtook one of my townsmen, who has
accumulated what is called "a handsome property"--though I never got a
_fair_ view of it--on the Walden road, driving a pair of cattle to market,
who inquired of me how I could bring my mind to give up so many of the
comforts of life. I answered that I was very sure I liked it passably
well; I was not joking. And so I went home to my bed, and left him
to pick his way through the darkness and the mud to Brighton--or
Bright-town--which place he would reach some time in the morning.

Any prospect of awakening or coming to life to a dead man makes
indifferent all times and places. The place where that may occur is
always the same, and indescribably pleasant to all our senses. For the
most part we allow only outlying and transient circumstances to make our
occasions. They are, in fact, the cause of our distraction. Nearest
to all things is that power which fashions their being. _Next_ to us the
grandest laws are continually being executed. _Next_ to us is not the
workman whom we have hired, with whom we love so well to talk, but the
workman whose work we are.

"How vast and profound is the influence of the subtile powers of Heaven
and of Earth!"

"We seek to perceive them, and we do not see them; we seek to hear them,
and we do not hear them; identified with the substance of things, they
cannot be separated from them."

"They cause that in all the universe men purify and sanctify their
hearts, and clothe themselves in their holiday garments to offer
sacrifices and oblations to their ancestors. It is an ocean of subtile
intelligences. They are everywhere, above us, on our left, on our right;
they environ us on all sides."

We are the subjects of an experiment which is not a little interesting
to me. Can we not do without the society of our gossips a little while
under these circumstances--have our own thoughts to cheer us? Confucius
says truly, "Virtue does not remain as an abandoned orphan; it must of
necessity have neighbors."

With thinking we may be beside ourselves in a sane sense. By a
conscious effort of the mind we can stand aloof from actions and their
consequences; and all things, good and bad, go by us like a torrent. We
are not wholly involved in Nature. I may be either the driftwood in the
stream, or Indra in the sky looking down on it. I _may_ be affected by a
theatrical exhibition; on the other hand, I _may not_ be affected by an
actual event which appears to concern me much more. I only know myself
as a human entity; the scene, so to speak, of thoughts and affections;
and am sensible of a certain doubleness by which I can stand as remote
from myself as from another. However intense my experience, I am
conscious of the presence and criticism of a part of me, which, as it
were, is not a part of me, but spectator, sharing no experience, but
taking note of it, and that is no more I than it is you. When the play,
it may be the tragedy, of life is over, the spectator goes his way. It
was a kind of fiction, a work of the imagination only, so far as he was
concerned. This doubleness may easily make us poor neighbors and friends
sometimes.

I find it wholesome to be alone the greater part of the time. To be in
company, even with the best, is soon wearisome and dissipating. I love
to be alone. I never found the companion that was so companionable as
solitude. We are for the most part more lonely when we go abroad among
men than when we stay in our chambers. A man thinking or working is
always alone, let him be where he will. Solitude is not measured by the
miles of space that intervene between a man and his fellows. The really
diligent student in one of the crowded hives of Cambridge College is as
solitary as a dervish in the desert. The farmer can work alone in the
field or the woods all day, hoeing or chopping, and not feel lonesome,
because he is employed; but when he comes home at night he cannot sit
down in a room alone, at the mercy of his thoughts, but must be where he
can "see the folks," and recreate, and, as he thinks, remunerate himself
for his day's solitude; and hence he wonders how the student can sit
alone in the house all night and most of the day without ennui and "the
blues"; but he does not realize that the student, though in the house,
is still at work in _his_ field, and chopping in _his_ woods, as the farmer
in his, and in turn seeks the same recreation and society that the
latter does, though it may be a more condensed form of it.

Society is commonly too cheap. We meet at very short intervals, not
having had time to acquire any new value for each other. We meet at
meals three times a day, and give each other a new taste of that old
musty cheese that we are. We have had to agree on a certain set of
rules, called etiquette and politeness, to make this frequent meeting
tolerable and that we need not come to open war. We meet at the
post-office, and at the sociable, and about the fireside every night;
we live thick and are in each other's way, and stumble over one another,
and I think that we thus lose some respect for one another.
Certainly less frequency would suffice for all important and hearty
communications. Consider the girls in a factory--never alone, hardly in
their dreams. It would be better if there were but one inhabitant to
a square mile, as where I live. The value of a man is not in his skin,
that we should touch him.

I have heard of a man lost in the woods and dying of famine and
exhaustion at the foot of a tree, whose loneliness was relieved by the
grotesque visions with which, owing to bodily weakness, his diseased
imagination surrounded him, and which he believed to be real. So also,
owing to bodily and mental health and strength, we may be continually
cheered by a like but more normal and natural society, and come to know
that we are never alone.

I have a great deal of company in my house; especially in the morning,
when nobody calls. Let me suggest a few comparisons, that some one may
convey an idea of my situation. I am no more lonely than the loon in the
pond that laughs so loud, or than Walden Pond itself. What company has
that lonely lake, I pray? And yet it has not the blue devils, but the
blue angels in it, in the azure tint of its waters. The sun is alone,
except in thick weather, when there sometimes appear to be two, but one
is a mock sun. God is alone--but the devil, he is far from being alone;
he sees a great deal of company; he is legion. I am no more lonely than
a single mullein or dandelion in a pasture, or a bean leaf, or sorrel,
or a horse-fly, or a bumblebee. I am no more lonely than the Mill Brook,
or a weathercock, or the north star, or the south wind, or an April
shower, or a January thaw, or the first spider in a new house.

I have occasional visits in the long winter evenings, when the snow
falls fast and the wind howls in the wood, from an old settler and
original proprietor, who is reported to have dug Walden Pond, and stoned
it, and fringed it with pine woods; who tells me stories of old time
and of new eternity; and between us we manage to pass a cheerful evening
with social mirth and pleasant views of things, even without apples
or cider--a most wise and humorous friend, whom I love much, who keeps
himself more secret than ever did Goffe or Whalley; and though he is
thought to be dead, none can show where he is buried. An elderly dame,
too, dwells in my neighborhood, invisible to most persons, in whose
odorous herb garden I love to stroll sometimes, gathering simples and
listening to her fables; for she has a genius of unequalled fertility,
and her memory runs back farther than mythology, and she can tell me the
original of every fable, and on what fact every one is founded, for the
incidents occurred when she was young. A ruddy and lusty old dame, who
delights in all weathers and seasons, and is likely to outlive all her
children yet.

The indescribable innocence and beneficence of Nature--of sun and wind
and rain, of summer and winter--such health, such cheer, they afford
forever! and such sympathy have they ever with our race, that all Nature
would be affected, and the sun's brightness fade, and the winds would
sigh humanely, and the clouds rain tears, and the woods shed their
leaves and put on mourning in midsummer, if any man should ever for a
just cause grieve. Shall I not have intelligence with the earth? Am I
not partly leaves and vegetable mould myself?

What is the pill which will keep us well, serene, contented? Not my or
thy great-grandfather's, but our great-grandmother Nature's universal,
vegetable, botanic medicines, by which she has kept herself young
always, outlived so many old Parrs in her day, and fed her health with
their decaying fatness. For my panacea, instead of one of those quack
vials of a mixture dipped from Acheron and the Dead Sea, which come out
of those long shallow black-schooner looking wagons which we sometimes
see made to carry bottles, let me have a draught of undiluted morning
air. Morning air! If men will not drink of this at the fountainhead
of the day, why, then, we must even bottle up some and sell it in the
shops, for the benefit of those who have lost their subscription ticket
to morning time in this world. But remember, it will not keep quite till
noonday even in the coolest cellar, but drive out the stopples long
ere that and follow westward the steps of Aurora. I am no worshipper of
Hygeia, who was the daughter of that old herb-doctor Æsculapius, and
who is represented on monuments holding a serpent in one hand, and in
the other a cup out of which the serpent sometimes drinks; but rather
of Hebe, cup-bearer to Jupiter, who was the daughter of Juno and wild
lettuce, and who had the power of restoring gods and men to the vigor of
youth. She was probably the only thoroughly sound-conditioned, healthy,
and robust young lady that ever walked the globe, and wherever she came
it was spring.




Visitors


I think that I love society as much as most, and am ready enough to
fasten myself like a bloodsucker for the time to any full-blooded man
that comes in my way. I am naturally no hermit, but might possibly sit
out the sturdiest frequenter of the bar-room, if my business called me
thither.

I had three chairs in my house; one for solitude, two for friendship,
three for society. When visitors came in larger and unexpected
numbers there was but the third chair for them all, but they generally
economized the room by standing up. It is surprising how many great men
and women a small house will contain. I have had twenty-five or thirty
souls, with their bodies, at once under my roof, and yet we often parted
without being aware that we had come very near to one another. Many
of our houses, both public and private, with their almost innumerable
apartments, their huge halls and their cellars for the storage of wines
and other munitions of peace, appear to be extravagantly large for their
inhabitants. They are so vast and magnificent that the latter seem to be
only vermin which infest them. I am surprised when the herald blows his
summons before some Tremont or Astor or Middlesex House, to see come
creeping out over the piazza for all inhabitants a ridiculous mouse,
which soon again slinks into some hole in the pavement.

One inconvenience I sometimes experienced in so small a house, the
difficulty of getting to a sufficient distance from my guest when we
began to utter the big thoughts in big words. You want room for your
thoughts to get into sailing trim and run a course or two before they
make their port. The bullet of your thought must have overcome its
lateral and ricochet motion and fallen into its last and steady course
before it reaches the ear of the hearer, else it may plow out again
through the side of his head. Also, our sentences wanted room to unfold
and form their columns in the interval. Individuals, like nations, must
have suitable broad and natural boundaries, even a considerable neutral
ground, between them. I have found it a singular luxury to talk across
the pond to a companion on the opposite side. In my house we were so
near that we could not begin to hear--we could not speak low enough to
be heard; as when you throw two stones into calm water so near that they
break each other's undulations. If we are merely loquacious and loud
talkers, then we can afford to stand very near together, cheek by
jowl, and feel each other's breath; but if we speak reservedly and
thoughtfully, we want to be farther apart, that all animal heat and
moisture may have a chance to evaporate. If we would enjoy the most
intimate society with that in each of us which is without, or above,
being spoken to, we must not only be silent, but commonly so far apart
bodily that we cannot possibly hear each other's voice in any case.
Referred to this standard, speech is for the convenience of those who
are hard of hearing; but there are many fine things which we cannot say
if we have to shout. As the conversation began to assume a loftier and
grander tone, we gradually shoved our chairs farther apart till they
touched the wall in opposite corners, and then commonly there was not
room enough.

My "best" room, however, my withdrawing room, always ready for company,
on whose carpet the sun rarely fell, was the pine wood behind my house.
Thither in summer days, when distinguished guests came, I took them, and
a priceless domestic swept the floor and dusted the furniture and kept
the things in order.

If one guest came he sometimes partook of my frugal meal, and it was no
interruption to conversation to be stirring a hasty-pudding, or
watching the rising and maturing of a loaf of bread in the ashes, in the
meanwhile. But if twenty came and sat in my house there was nothing said
about dinner, though there might be bread enough for two, more than if
eating were a forsaken habit; but we naturally practised abstinence; and
this was never felt to be an offence against hospitality, but the most
proper and considerate course. The waste and decay of physical life,
which so often needs repair, seemed miraculously retarded in such a
case, and the vital vigor stood its ground. I could entertain thus a
thousand as well as twenty; and if any ever went away disappointed or
hungry from my house when they found me at home, they may depend upon
it that I sympathized with them at least. So easy is it, though many
housekeepers doubt it, to establish new and better customs in the place
of the old. You need not rest your reputation on the dinners you give.
For my own part, I was never so effectually deterred from frequenting a
man's house, by any kind of Cerberus whatever, as by the parade one made
about dining me, which I took to be a very polite and roundabout hint
never to trouble him so again. I think I shall never revisit those
scenes. I should be proud to have for the motto of my cabin those lines
of Spenser which one of my visitors inscribed on a yellow walnut leaf
for a card:--

       "Arrivèd there, the little house they fill,
           Ne looke for entertainment where none was;
        Rest is their feast, and all things at their will:
           The noblest mind the best contentment has."

When Winslow, afterward governor of the Plymouth Colony, went with a
companion on a visit of ceremony to Massasoit on foot through the woods,
and arrived tired and hungry at his lodge, they were well received by
the king, but nothing was said about eating that day. When the night
arrived, to quote their own words--"He laid us on the bed with himself
and his wife, they at the one end and we at the other, it being only
planks laid a foot from the ground and a thin mat upon them. Two more of
his chief men, for want of room, pressed by and upon us; so that we were
worse weary of our lodging than of our journey." At one o'clock the next
day Massasoit "brought two fishes that he had shot," about thrice as big
as a bream. "These being boiled, there were at least forty looked for a
share in them; the most eat of them. This meal only we had in two nights
and a day; and had not one of us bought a partridge, we had taken our
journey fasting." Fearing that they would be light-headed for want of
food and also sleep, owing to "the savages' barbarous singing, (for they
use to sing themselves asleep,)" and that they might get home while they
had strength to travel, they departed. As for lodging, it is true they
were but poorly entertained, though what they found an inconvenience was
no doubt intended for an honor; but as far as eating was concerned, I do
not see how the Indians could have done better. They had nothing to
eat themselves, and they were wiser than to think that apologies could
supply the place of food to their guests; so they drew their belts
tighter and said nothing about it. Another time when Winslow visited
them, it being a season of plenty with them, there was no deficiency in
this respect.

As for men, they will hardly fail one anywhere. I had more visitors
while I lived in the woods than at any other period in my life; I mean
that I had some. I met several there under more favorable circumstances
than I could anywhere else. But fewer came to see me on trivial
business. In this respect, my company was winnowed by my mere distance
from town. I had withdrawn so far within the great ocean of solitude,
into which the rivers of society empty, that for the most part, so
far as my needs were concerned, only the finest sediment was deposited
around me. Beside, there were wafted to me evidences of unexplored and
uncultivated continents on the other side.

Who should come to my lodge this morning but a true Homeric or
Paphlagonian man--he had so suitable and poetic a name that I am sorry I
cannot print it here--a Canadian, a woodchopper and post-maker, who can
hole fifty posts in a day, who made his last supper on a woodchuck which
his dog caught. He, too, has heard of Homer, and, "if it were not for
books," would "not know what to do rainy days," though perhaps he has
not read one wholly through for many rainy seasons. Some priest who
could pronounce the Greek itself taught him to read his verse in the
Testament in his native parish far away; and now I must translate to
him, while he holds the book, Achilles' reproof to Patroclus for his sad
countenance.--"Why are you in tears, Patroclus, like a young girl?"--

      "Or have you alone heard some news from Phthia?
       They say that Menoetius lives yet, son of Actor,
       And Peleus lives, son of Æacus, among the Myrmidons,
       Either of whom having died, we should greatly grieve."

He says, "That's good." He has a great bundle of white oak bark under
his arm for a sick man, gathered this Sunday morning. "I suppose there's
no harm in going after such a thing to-day," says he. To him Homer was a
great writer, though what his writing was about he did not know. A more
simple and natural man it would be hard to find. Vice and disease, which
cast such a sombre moral hue over the world, seemed to have hardly any
existence for him. He was about twenty-eight years old, and had left
Canada and his father's house a dozen years before to work in the
States, and earn money to buy a farm with at last, perhaps in his native
country. He was cast in the coarsest mould; a stout but sluggish body,
yet gracefully carried, with a thick sunburnt neck, dark bushy hair, and
dull sleepy blue eyes, which were occasionally lit up with expression.
He wore a flat gray cloth cap, a dingy wool-colored greatcoat, and
cowhide boots. He was a great consumer of meat, usually carrying his
dinner to his work a couple of miles past my house--for he chopped all
summer--in a tin pail; cold meats, often cold woodchucks, and coffee in
a stone bottle which dangled by a string from his belt; and sometimes he
offered me a drink. He came along early, crossing my bean-field, though
without anxiety or haste to get to his work, such as Yankees exhibit.
He wasn't a-going to hurt himself. He didn't care if he only earned his
board. Frequently he would leave his dinner in the bushes, when his
dog had caught a woodchuck by the way, and go back a mile and a half to
dress it and leave it in the cellar of the house where he boarded, after
deliberating first for half an hour whether he could not sink it in the
pond safely till nightfall--loving to dwell long upon these themes. He
would say, as he went by in the morning, "How thick the pigeons are! If
working every day were not my trade, I could get all the meat I should
want by hunting-pigeons, woodchucks, rabbits, partridges--by gosh! I
could get all I should want for a week in one day."

He was a skilful chopper, and indulged in some flourishes and ornaments
in his art. He cut his trees level and close to the ground, that the
sprouts which came up afterward might be more vigorous and a sled might
slide over the stumps; and instead of leaving a whole tree to support
his corded wood, he would pare it away to a slender stake or splinter
which you could break off with your hand at last.

He interested me because he was so quiet and solitary and so happy
withal; a well of good humor and contentment which overflowed at his
eyes. His mirth was without alloy. Sometimes I saw him at his work
in the woods, felling trees, and he would greet me with a laugh of
inexpressible satisfaction, and a salutation in Canadian French, though
he spoke English as well. When I approached him he would suspend his
work, and with half-suppressed mirth lie along the trunk of a pine which
he had felled, and, peeling off the inner bark, roll it up into a ball
and chew it while he laughed and talked. Such an exuberance of animal
spirits had he that he sometimes tumbled down and rolled on the ground
with laughter at anything which made him think and tickled him. Looking
round upon the trees he would exclaim--"By George! I can enjoy myself
well enough here chopping; I want no better sport." Sometimes, when at
leisure, he amused himself all day in the woods with a pocket pistol,
firing salutes to himself at regular intervals as he walked. In the
winter he had a fire by which at noon he warmed his coffee in a kettle;
and as he sat on a log to eat his dinner the chickadees would sometimes
come round and alight on his arm and peck at the potato in his fingers;
and he said that he "liked to have the little _fellers_ about him."

In him the animal man chiefly was developed. In physical endurance and
contentment he was cousin to the pine and the rock. I asked him once
if he was not sometimes tired at night, after working all day; and he
answered, with a sincere and serious look, "Gorrappit, I never was tired
in my life." But the intellectual and what is called spiritual man in
him were slumbering as in an infant. He had been instructed only in that
innocent and ineffectual way in which the Catholic priests teach the
aborigines, by which the pupil is never educated to the degree of
consciousness, but only to the degree of trust and reverence, and a
child is not made a man, but kept a child. When Nature made him, she
gave him a strong body and contentment for his portion, and propped him
on every side with reverence and reliance, that he might live out his
threescore years and ten a child. He was so genuine and unsophisticated
that no introduction would serve to introduce him, more than if you
introduced a woodchuck to your neighbor. He had got to find him out as
you did. He would not play any part. Men paid him wages for work, and
so helped to feed and clothe him; but he never exchanged opinions with
them. He was so simply and naturally humble--if he can be called humble
who never aspires--that humility was no distinct quality in him, nor
could he conceive of it. Wiser men were demigods to him. If you told
him that such a one was coming, he did as if he thought that anything so
grand would expect nothing of himself, but take all the responsibility
on itself, and let him be forgotten still. He never heard the sound of
praise. He particularly reverenced the writer and the preacher. Their
performances were miracles. When I told him that I wrote considerably,
he thought for a long time that it was merely the handwriting which I
meant, for he could write a remarkably good hand himself. I sometimes
found the name of his native parish handsomely written in the snow by
the highway, with the proper French accent, and knew that he had passed.
I asked him if he ever wished to write his thoughts. He said that he had
read and written letters for those who could not, but he never tried to
write thoughts--no, he could not, he could not tell what to put first,
it would kill him, and then there was spelling to be attended to at the
same time!

I heard that a distinguished wise man and reformer asked him if he did
not want the world to be changed; but he answered with a chuckle of
surprise in his Canadian accent, not knowing that the question had ever
been entertained before, "No, I like it well enough." It would have
suggested many things to a philosopher to have dealings with him. To
a stranger he appeared to know nothing of things in general; yet I
sometimes saw in him a man whom I had not seen before, and I did not
know whether he was as wise as Shakespeare or as simply ignorant as
a child, whether to suspect him of a fine poetic consciousness or of
stupidity. A townsman told me that when he met him sauntering through
the village in his small close-fitting cap, and whistling to himself, he
reminded him of a prince in disguise.

His only books were an almanac and an arithmetic, in which last he was
considerably expert. The former was a sort of cyclopaedia to him, which
he supposed to contain an abstract of human knowledge, as indeed it does
to a considerable extent. I loved to sound him on the various reforms
of the day, and he never failed to look at them in the most simple and
practical light. He had never heard of such things before. Could he do
without factories? I asked. He had worn the home-made Vermont gray, he
said, and that was good. Could he dispense with tea and coffee? Did this
country afford any beverage beside water? He had soaked hemlock leaves
in water and drank it, and thought that was better than water in warm
weather. When I asked him if he could do without money, he showed the
convenience of money in such a way as to suggest and coincide with the
most philosophical accounts of the origin of this institution, and the
very derivation of the word _pecunia_. If an ox were his property, and he
wished to get needles and thread at the store, he thought it would be
inconvenient and impossible soon to go on mortgaging some portion of
the creature each time to that amount. He could defend many institutions
better than any philosopher, because, in describing them as they
concerned him, he gave the true reason for their prevalence, and
speculation had not suggested to him any other. At another time, hearing
Plato's definition of a man--a biped without feathers--and that one
exhibited a cock plucked and called it Plato's man, he thought it
an important difference that the _knees_ bent the wrong way. He would
sometimes exclaim, "How I love to talk! By George, I could talk all
day!" I asked him once, when I had not seen him for many months, if he
had got a new idea this summer. "Good Lord"--said he, "a man that has
to work as I do, if he does not forget the ideas he has had, he will do
well. May be the man you hoe with is inclined to race; then, by gorry,
your mind must be there; you think of weeds." He would sometimes ask me
first on such occasions, if I had made any improvement. One winter day I
asked him if he was always satisfied with himself, wishing to suggest a
substitute within him for the priest without, and some higher motive for
living. "Satisfied!" said he; "some men are satisfied with one thing,
and some with another. One man, perhaps, if he has got enough, will be
satisfied to sit all day with his back to the fire and his belly to the
table, by George!" Yet I never, by any manoeuvring, could get him to
take the spiritual view of things; the highest that he appeared to
conceive of was a simple expediency, such as you might expect an
animal to appreciate; and this, practically, is true of most men. If
I suggested any improvement in his mode of life, he merely answered,
without expressing any regret, that it was too late. Yet he thoroughly
believed in honesty and the like virtues.

There was a certain positive originality, however slight, to be detected
in him, and I occasionally observed that he was thinking for himself and
expressing his own opinion, a phenomenon so rare that I would any day
walk ten miles to observe it, and it amounted to the re-origination of
many of the institutions of society. Though he hesitated, and perhaps
failed to express himself distinctly, he always had a presentable
thought behind. Yet his thinking was so primitive and immersed in his
animal life, that, though more promising than a merely learned man's,
it rarely ripened to anything which can be reported. He suggested that
there might be men of genius in the lowest grades of life, however
permanently humble and illiterate, who take their own view always, or do
not pretend to see at all; who are as bottomless even as Walden Pond was
thought to be, though they may be dark and muddy.

Many a traveller came out of his way to see me and the inside of my
house, and, as an excuse for calling, asked for a glass of water. I told
them that I drank at the pond, and pointed thither, offering to lend
them a dipper. Far off as I lived, I was not exempted from the annual
visitation which occurs, methinks, about the first of April, when
everybody is on the move; and I had my share of good luck, though there
were some curious specimens among my visitors. Half-witted men from the
almshouse and elsewhere came to see me; but I endeavored to make them
exercise all the wit they had, and make their confessions to me; in such
cases making wit the theme of our conversation; and so was compensated.
Indeed, I found some of them to be wiser than the so-called _overseers_
of the poor and selectmen of the town, and thought it was time that the
tables were turned. With respect to wit, I learned that there was not
much difference between the half and the whole. One day, in particular,
an inoffensive, simple-minded pauper, whom with others I had often seen
used as fencing stuff, standing or sitting on a bushel in the fields to
keep cattle and himself from straying, visited me, and expressed a wish
to live as I did. He told me, with the utmost simplicity and truth,
quite superior, or rather _inferior_, to anything that is called humility,
that he was "deficient in intellect." These were his words. The Lord
had made him so, yet he supposed the Lord cared as much for him as for
another. "I have always been so," said he, "from my childhood; I never
had much mind; I was not like other children; I am weak in the head. It
was the Lord's will, I suppose." And there he was to prove the truth
of his words. He was a metaphysical puzzle to me. I have rarely met a
fellowman on such promising ground--it was so simple and sincere and so
true all that he said. And, true enough, in proportion as he appeared
to humble himself was he exalted. I did not know at first but it was the
result of a wise policy. It seemed that from such a basis of truth and
frankness as the poor weak-headed pauper had laid, our intercourse might
go forward to something better than the intercourse of sages.

I had some guests from those not reckoned commonly among the town's
poor, but who should be; who are among the world's poor, at any rate;
guests who appeal, not to your hospitality, but to your _hospitalality_;
who earnestly wish to be helped, and preface their appeal with the
information that they are resolved, for one thing, never to help
themselves. I require of a visitor that he be not actually starving,
though he may have the very best appetite in the world, however he got
it. Objects of charity are not guests. Men who did not know when their
visit had terminated, though I went about my business again, answering
them from greater and greater remoteness. Men of almost every degree of
wit called on me in the migrating season. Some who had more wits than
they knew what to do with; runaway slaves with plantation manners, who
listened from time to time, like the fox in the fable, as if they heard
the hounds a-baying on their track, and looked at me beseechingly, as
much as to say,--

           "O Christian, will you send me back?

One real runaway slave, among the rest, whom I helped to forward toward
the north star. Men of one idea, like a hen with one chicken, and that
a duckling; men of a thousand ideas, and unkempt heads, like those hens
which are made to take charge of a hundred chickens, all in pursuit
of one bug, a score of them lost in every morning's dew--and become
frizzled and mangy in consequence; men of ideas instead of legs, a sort
of intellectual centipede that made you crawl all over. One man proposed
a book in which visitors should write their names, as at the White
Mountains; but, alas! I have too good a memory to make that necessary.

I could not but notice some of the peculiarities of my visitors. Girls
and boys and young women generally seemed glad to be in the woods. They
looked in the pond and at the flowers, and improved their time. Men of
business, even farmers, thought only of solitude and employment, and of
the great distance at which I dwelt from something or other; and though
they said that they loved a ramble in the woods occasionally, it was
obvious that they did not. Restless committed men, whose time was an
taken up in getting a living or keeping it; ministers who spoke of God
as if they enjoyed a monopoly of the subject, who could not bear all
kinds of opinions; doctors, lawyers, uneasy housekeepers who pried
into my cupboard and bed when I was out--how came Mrs.--to know that my
sheets were not as clean as hers?--young men who had ceased to be young,
and had concluded that it was safest to follow the beaten track of the
professions--all these generally said that it was not possible to do so
much good in my position. Ay! there was the rub. The old and infirm and
the timid, of whatever age or sex, thought most of sickness, and sudden
accident and death; to them life seemed full of danger--what danger is
there if you don't think of any?--and they thought that a prudent man
would carefully select the safest position, where Dr. B. might be
on hand at a moment's warning. To them the village was literally a
_com-munity_, a league for mutual defence, and you would suppose that they
would not go a-huckleberrying without a medicine chest. The amount of
it is, if a man is alive, there is always danger that he may die,
though the danger must be allowed to be less in proportion as he is
dead-and-alive to begin with. A man sits as many risks as he runs.
Finally, there were the self-styled reformers, the greatest bores of
all, who thought that I was forever singing,--

       This is the house that I built;
       This is the man that lives in the house that I built;

but they did not know that the third line was,

              These are the folks that worry the man
              That lives in the house that I built.

I did not fear the hen-harriers, for I kept no chickens; but I feared
the men-harriers rather.

I had more cheering visitors than the last. Children come a-berrying,
railroad men taking a Sunday morning walk in clean shirts, fishermen and
hunters, poets and philosophers; in short, all honest pilgrims, who came
out to the woods for freedom's sake, and really left the village behind,
I was ready to greet with--"Welcome, Englishmen! welcome, Englishmen!"
for I had had communication with that race.




The Bean-Field


Meanwhile my beans, the length of whose rows, added together, was seven
miles already planted, were impatient to be hoed, for the earliest had
grown considerably before the latest were in the ground; indeed they
were not easily to be put off. What was the meaning of this so steady
and self-respecting, this small Herculean labor, I knew not. I came to
love my rows, my beans, though so many more than I wanted. They attached
me to the earth, and so I got strength like Antaeus. But why should I
raise them? Only Heaven knows. This was my curious labor all summer--to
make this portion of the earth's surface, which had yielded only
cinquefoil, blackberries, johnswort, and the like, before, sweet wild
fruits and pleasant flowers, produce instead this pulse. What shall I
learn of beans or beans of me? I cherish them, I hoe them, early and
late I have an eye to them; and this is my day's work. It is a fine
broad leaf to look on. My auxiliaries are the dews and rains which water
this dry soil, and what fertility is in the soil itself, which for the
most part is lean and effete. My enemies are worms, cool days, and most
of all woodchucks. The last have nibbled for me a quarter of an acre
clean. But what right had I to oust johnswort and the rest, and break
up their ancient herb garden? Soon, however, the remaining beans will be
too tough for them, and go forward to meet new foes.

When I was four years old, as I well remember, I was brought from Boston
to this my native town, through these very woods and this field, to
the pond. It is one of the oldest scenes stamped on my memory. And now
to-night my flute has waked the echoes over that very water. The pines
still stand here older than I; or, if some have fallen, I have cooked
my supper with their stumps, and a new growth is rising all around,
preparing another aspect for new infant eyes. Almost the same johnswort
springs from the same perennial root in this pasture, and even I have at
length helped to clothe that fabulous landscape of my infant dreams, and
one of the results of my presence and influence is seen in these bean
leaves, corn blades, and potato vines.

I planted about two acres and a half of upland; and as it was only about
fifteen years since the land was cleared, and I myself had got out
two or three cords of stumps, I did not give it any manure; but in the
course of the summer it appeared by the arrowheads which I turned up in
hoeing, that an extinct nation had anciently dwelt here and planted corn
and beans ere white men came to clear the land, and so, to some extent,
had exhausted the soil for this very crop.

Before yet any woodchuck or squirrel had run across the road, or the
sun had got above the shrub oaks, while all the dew was on, though the
farmers warned me against it--I would advise you to do all your work
if possible while the dew is on--I began to level the ranks of haughty
weeds in my bean-field and throw dust upon their heads. Early in the
morning I worked barefooted, dabbling like a plastic artist in the dewy
and crumbling sand, but later in the day the sun blistered my feet.
There the sun lighted me to hoe beans, pacing slowly backward and
forward over that yellow gravelly upland, between the long green rows,
fifteen rods, the one end terminating in a shrub oak copse where I
could rest in the shade, the other in a blackberry field where the
green berries deepened their tints by the time I had made another
bout. Removing the weeds, putting fresh soil about the bean stems, and
encouraging this weed which I had sown, making the yellow soil express
its summer thought in bean leaves and blossoms rather than in wormwood
and piper and millet grass, making the earth say beans instead of
grass--this was my daily work. As I had little aid from horses or
cattle, or hired men or boys, or improved implements of husbandry, I was
much slower, and became much more intimate with my beans than usual.
But labor of the hands, even when pursued to the verge of drudgery,
is perhaps never the worst form of idleness. It has a constant and
imperishable moral, and to the scholar it yields a classic result. A
very _agricola laboriosus_ was I to travellers bound westward through
Lincoln and Wayland to nobody knows where; they sitting at their ease in
gigs, with elbows on knees, and reins loosely hanging in festoons; I the
home-staying, laborious native of the soil. But soon my homestead was
out of their sight and thought. It was the only open and cultivated
field for a great distance on either side of the road, so they made the
most of it; and sometimes the man in the field heard more of travellers'
gossip and comment than was meant for his ear: "Beans so late! peas
so late!"--for I continued to plant when others had begun to hoe--the
ministerial husbandman had not suspected it. "Corn, my boy, for fodder;
corn for fodder." "Does he _live_ there?" asks the black bonnet of the
gray coat; and the hard-featured farmer reins up his grateful dobbin to
inquire what you are doing where he sees no manure in the furrow, and
recommends a little chip dirt, or any little waste stuff, or it may be
ashes or plaster. But here were two acres and a half of furrows, and
only a hoe for cart and two hands to draw it--there being an aversion
to other carts and horses--and chip dirt far away. Fellow-travellers as
they rattled by compared it aloud with the fields which they had passed,
so that I came to know how I stood in the agricultural world. This was
one field not in Mr. Coleman's report. And, by the way, who estimates
the value of the crop which nature yields in the still wilder fields
unimproved by man? The crop of _English_ hay is carefully weighed, the
moisture calculated, the silicates and the potash; but in all dells and
pond-holes in the woods and pastures and swamps grows a rich and various
crop only unreaped by man. Mine was, as it were, the connecting link
between wild and cultivated fields; as some states are civilized, and
others half-civilized, and others savage or barbarous, so my field was,
though not in a bad sense, a half-cultivated field. They were
beans cheerfully returning to their wild and primitive state that I
cultivated, and my hoe played the _Ranz des Vaches_ for them.

Near at hand, upon the topmost spray of a birch, sings the brown
thrasher--or red mavis, as some love to call him--all the morning, glad
of your society, that would find out another farmer's field if yours
were not here. While you are planting the seed, he cries--"Drop it, drop
it--cover it up, cover it up--pull it up, pull it up, pull it up." But
this was not corn, and so it was safe from such enemies as he. You may
wonder what his rigmarole, his amateur Paganini performances on one
string or on twenty, have to do with your planting, and yet prefer it to
leached ashes or plaster. It was a cheap sort of top dressing in which I
had entire faith.

As I drew a still fresher soil about the rows with my hoe, I disturbed
the ashes of unchronicled nations who in primeval years lived under
these heavens, and their small implements of war and hunting were
brought to the light of this modern day. They lay mingled with other
natural stones, some of which bore the marks of having been burned by
Indian fires, and some by the sun, and also bits of pottery and glass
brought hither by the recent cultivators of the soil. When my hoe
tinkled against the stones, that music echoed to the woods and the
sky, and was an accompaniment to my labor which yielded an instant and
immeasurable crop. It was no longer beans that I hoed, nor I that hoed
beans; and I remembered with as much pity as pride, if I remembered at
all, my acquaintances who had gone to the city to attend the oratorios.
The nighthawk circled overhead in the sunny afternoons--for I sometimes
made a day of it--like a mote in the eye, or in heaven's eye, falling
from time to time with a swoop and a sound as if the heavens were rent,
torn at last to very rags and tatters, and yet a seamless cope remained;
small imps that fill the air and lay their eggs on the ground on bare
sand or rocks on the tops of hills, where few have found them; graceful
and slender like ripples caught up from the pond, as leaves are raised
by the wind to float in the heavens; such kindredship is in nature.
The hawk is aerial brother of the wave which he sails over and surveys,
those his perfect air-inflated wings answering to the elemental
unfledged pinions of the sea. Or sometimes I watched a pair of
hen-hawks circling high in the sky, alternately soaring and descending,
approaching, and leaving one another, as if they were the embodiment of
my own thoughts. Or I was attracted by the passage of wild pigeons from
this wood to that, with a slight quivering winnowing sound and carrier
haste; or from under a rotten stump my hoe turned up a sluggish
portentous and outlandish spotted salamander, a trace of Egypt and
the Nile, yet our contemporary. When I paused to lean on my hoe, these
sounds and sights I heard and saw anywhere in the row, a part of the
inexhaustible entertainment which the country offers.

On gala days the town fires its great guns, which echo like popguns to
these woods, and some waifs of martial music occasionally penetrate thus
far. To me, away there in my bean-field at the other end of the town,
the big guns sounded as if a puffball had burst; and when there was a
military turnout of which I was ignorant, I have sometimes had a vague
sense all the day of some sort of itching and disease in the horizon,
as if some eruption would break out there soon, either scarlatina or
canker-rash, until at length some more favorable puff of wind, making
haste over the fields and up the Wayland road, brought me information of
the "trainers." It seemed by the distant hum as if somebody's bees had
swarmed, and that the neighbors, according to Virgil's advice, by a
faint _tintinnabulum_ upon the most sonorous of their domestic utensils,
were endeavoring to call them down into the hive again. And when the
sound died quite away, and the hum had ceased, and the most favorable
breezes told no tale, I knew that they had got the last drone of them
all safely into the Middlesex hive, and that now their minds were bent
on the honey with which it was smeared.

I felt proud to know that the liberties of Massachusetts and of our
fatherland were in such safe keeping; and as I turned to my hoeing again
I was filled with an inexpressible confidence, and pursued my labor
cheerfully with a calm trust in the future.

When there were several bands of musicians, it sounded as if all the
village was a vast bellows and all the buildings expanded and collapsed
alternately with a din. But sometimes it was a really noble and
inspiring strain that reached these woods, and the trumpet that sings
of fame, and I felt as if I could spit a Mexican with a good relish--for
why should we always stand for trifles?--and looked round for a
woodchuck or a skunk to exercise my chivalry upon. These martial strains
seemed as far away as Palestine, and reminded me of a march of crusaders
in the horizon, with a slight tantivy and tremulous motion of the elm
tree tops which overhang the village. This was one of the _great_ days;
though the sky had from my clearing only the same everlastingly great
look that it wears daily, and I saw no difference in it.

It was a singular experience that long acquaintance which I cultivated
with beans, what with planting, and hoeing, and harvesting, and
threshing, and picking over and selling them--the last was the hardest
of all--I might add eating, for I did taste. I was determined to know
beans. When they were growing, I used to hoe from five o'clock in the
morning till noon, and commonly spent the rest of the day about other
affairs. Consider the intimate and curious acquaintance one makes with
various kinds of weeds--it will bear some iteration in the account, for
there was no little iteration in the labor--disturbing their delicate
organizations so ruthlessly, and making such invidious distinctions
with his hoe, levelling whole ranks of one species, and sedulously
cultivating another. That's Roman wormwood--that's pigweed--that's
sorrel--that's piper-grass--have at him, chop him up, turn his roots
upward to the sun, don't let him have a fibre in the shade, if you do
he'll turn himself t' other side up and be as green as a leek in two
days. A long war, not with cranes, but with weeds, those Trojans who
had sun and rain and dews on their side. Daily the beans saw me come
to their rescue armed with a hoe, and thin the ranks of their enemies,
filling up the trenches with weedy dead. Many a lusty crest--waving
Hector, that towered a whole foot above his crowding comrades, fell
before my weapon and rolled in the dust.

Those summer days which some of my contemporaries devoted to the fine
arts in Boston or Rome, and others to contemplation in India, and others
to trade in London or New York, I thus, with the other farmers of New
England, devoted to husbandry. Not that I wanted beans to eat, for I
am by nature a Pythagorean, so far as beans are concerned, whether they
mean porridge or voting, and exchanged them for rice; but, perchance, as
some must work in fields if only for the sake of tropes and expression,
to serve a parable-maker one day. It was on the whole a rare amusement,
which, continued too long, might have become a dissipation. Though I
gave them no manure, and did not hoe them all once, I hoed them unusually
well as far as I went, and was paid for it in the end, "there being in
truth," as Evelyn says, "no compost or laetation whatsoever comparable
to this continual motion, repastination, and turning of the mould with
the spade." "The earth," he adds elsewhere, "especially if fresh, has a
certain magnetism in it, by which it attracts the salt, power, or virtue
(call it either) which gives it life, and is the logic of all the labor
and stir we keep about it, to sustain us; all dungings and other sordid
temperings being but the vicars succedaneous to this improvement."
Moreover, this being one of those "worn-out and exhausted lay fields
which enjoy their sabbath," had perchance, as Sir Kenelm Digby thinks
likely, attracted "vital spirits" from the air. I harvested twelve
bushels of beans.

But to be more particular, for it is complained that Mr. Coleman has
reported chiefly the expensive experiments of gentlemen farmers, my
outgoes were,--

    For a hoe................................... $ 0.54
    Plowing, harrowing, and furrowing............  7.50  Too much.
    Beans for seed...............................  3.12-1/2
    Potatoes for seed............................  1.33
    Peas for seed................................  0.40
    Turnip seed..................................  0.06
    White line for crow fence....................  0.02
    Horse cultivator and boy three hours.........  1.00
    Horse and cart to get crop...................  0.75
                                                --------
        In all.................................. $14.72-1/2

My income was (patrem familias vendacem, non emacem esse oportet), from

    Nine bushels and twelve quarts of beans sold.. $16.94
    Five    "    large potatoes..................... 2.50
    Nine    "    small.............................. 2.25
    Grass........................................... 1.00
    Stalks.......................................... 0.75
                                                  --------
        In all.................................... $23.44
    Leaving a pecuniary profit,
        as I have elsewhere said, of.............. $8.71-1/2

This is the result of my experience in raising beans: Plant the common
small white bush bean about the first of June, in rows three feet by
eighteen inches apart, being careful to select fresh round and unmixed
seed. First look out for worms, and supply vacancies by planting anew.
Then look out for woodchucks, if it is an exposed place, for they will
nibble off the earliest tender leaves almost clean as they go; and
again, when the young tendrils make their appearance, they have notice
of it, and will shear them off with both buds and young pods, sitting
erect like a squirrel. But above all harvest as early as possible, if
you would escape frosts and have a fair and salable crop; you may save
much loss by this means.

This further experience also I gained: I said to myself, I will not
plant beans and corn with so much industry another summer, but such
seeds, if the seed is not lost, as sincerity, truth, simplicity, faith,
innocence, and the like, and see if they will not grow in this soil,
even with less toil and manurance, and sustain me, for surely it has
not been exhausted for these crops. Alas! I said this to myself; but now
another summer is gone, and another, and another, and I am obliged to
say to you, Reader, that the seeds which I planted, if indeed they _were_
the seeds of those virtues, were wormeaten or had lost their vitality,
and so did not come up. Commonly men will only be brave as their fathers
were brave, or timid. This generation is very sure to plant corn and
beans each new year precisely as the Indians did centuries ago and
taught the first settlers to do, as if there were a fate in it. I saw an
old man the other day, to my astonishment, making the holes with a hoe
for the seventieth time at least, and not for himself to lie down in!
But why should not the New Englander try new adventures, and not lay
so much stress on his grain, his potato and grass crop, and his
orchards--raise other crops than these? Why concern ourselves so much
about our beans for seed, and not be concerned at all about a new
generation of men? We should really be fed and cheered if when we met a
man we were sure to see that some of the qualities which I have named,
which we all prize more than those other productions, but which are
for the most part broadcast and floating in the air, had taken root
and grown in him. Here comes such a subtile and ineffable quality,
for instance, as truth or justice, though the slightest amount or new
variety of it, along the road. Our ambassadors should be instructed to
send home such seeds as these, and Congress help to distribute them over
all the land. We should never stand upon ceremony with sincerity. We
should never cheat and insult and banish one another by our meanness, if
there were present the kernel of worth and friendliness. We should not
meet thus in haste. Most men I do not meet at all, for they seem not to
have time; they are busy about their beans. We would not deal with a man
thus plodding ever, leaning on a hoe or a spade as a staff between his
work, not as a mushroom, but partially risen out of the earth, something
more than erect, like swallows alighted and walking on the ground:--

        "And as he spake, his wings would now and then
         Spread, as he meant to fly, then close again--"

so that we should suspect that we might be conversing with an angel.
Bread may not always nourish us; but it always does us good, it even
takes stiffness out of our joints, and makes us supple and buoyant, when
we knew not what ailed us, to recognize any generosity in man or Nature,
to share any unmixed and heroic joy.

Ancient poetry and mythology suggest, at least, that husbandry was once
a sacred art; but it is pursued with irreverent haste and heedlessness
by us, our object being to have large farms and large crops merely.
We have no festival, nor procession, nor ceremony, not excepting our
cattle-shows and so-called Thanksgivings, by which the farmer expresses
a sense of the sacredness of his calling, or is reminded of its sacred
origin. It is the premium and the feast which tempt him. He sacrifices
not to Ceres and the Terrestrial Jove, but to the infernal Plutus
rather. By avarice and selfishness, and a grovelling habit, from which
none of us is free, of regarding the soil as property, or the means
of acquiring property chiefly, the landscape is deformed, husbandry is
degraded with us, and the farmer leads the meanest of lives. He knows
Nature but as a robber. Cato says that the profits of agriculture are
particularly pious or just (_maximeque pius quaestus_), and according
to Varro the old Romans "called the same earth Mother and Ceres, and
thought that they who cultivated it led a pious and useful life, and
that they alone were left of the race of King Saturn."

We are wont to forget that the sun looks on our cultivated fields and
on the prairies and forests without distinction. They all reflect and
absorb his rays alike, and the former make but a small part of the
glorious picture which he beholds in his daily course. In his view
the earth is all equally cultivated like a garden. Therefore we should
receive the benefit of his light and heat with a corresponding trust and
magnanimity. What though I value the seed of these beans, and harvest
that in the fall of the year? This broad field which I have looked at
so long looks not to me as the principal cultivator, but away from me to
influences more genial to it, which water and make it green. These
beans have results which are not harvested by me. Do they not grow for
woodchucks partly? The ear of wheat (in Latin _spica_, obsoletely _speca_,
from _spe_, hope) should not be the only hope of the husbandman; its
kernel or grain (_granum_ from _gerendo_, bearing) is not all that it
bears. How, then, can our harvest fail? Shall I not rejoice also at
the abundance of the weeds whose seeds are the granary of the birds? It
matters little comparatively whether the fields fill the farmer's barns.
The true husbandman will cease from anxiety, as the squirrels manifest
no concern whether the woods will bear chestnuts this year or not, and
finish his labor with every day, relinquishing all claim to the produce
of his fields, and sacrificing in his mind not only his first but his
last fruits also.




The Village


After hoeing, or perhaps reading and writing, in the forenoon, I usually
bathed again in the pond, swimming across one of its coves for a stint,
and washed the dust of labor from my person, or smoothed out the last
wrinkle which study had made, and for the afternoon was absolutely free.
Every day or two I strolled to the village to hear some of the gossip
which is incessantly going on there, circulating either from mouth to
mouth, or from newspaper to newspaper, and which, taken in homoeopathic
doses, was really as refreshing in its way as the rustle of leaves and
the peeping of frogs. As I walked in the woods to see the birds and
squirrels, so I walked in the village to see the men and boys; instead
of the wind among the pines I heard the carts rattle. In one direction
from my house there was a colony of muskrats in the river meadows; under
the grove of elms and buttonwoods in the other horizon was a village
of busy men, as curious to me as if they had been prairie-dogs, each
sitting at the mouth of its burrow, or running over to a neighbor's to
gossip. I went there frequently to observe their habits. The village
appeared to me a great news room; and on one side, to support it, as
once at Redding & Company's on State Street, they kept nuts and raisins,
or salt and meal and other groceries. Some have such a vast appetite
for the former commodity, that is, the news, and such sound digestive
organs, that they can sit forever in public avenues without stirring,
and let it simmer and whisper through them like the Etesian winds, or
as if inhaling ether, it only producing numbness and insensibility to
pain--otherwise it would often be painful to bear--without affecting the
consciousness. I hardly ever failed, when I rambled through the village,
to see a row of such worthies, either sitting on a ladder sunning
themselves, with their bodies inclined forward and their eyes glancing
along the line this way and that, from time to time, with a voluptuous
expression, or else leaning against a barn with their hands in their
pockets, like caryatides, as if to prop it up. They, being commonly out
of doors, heard whatever was in the wind. These are the coarsest mills,
in which all gossip is first rudely digested or cracked up before it is
emptied into finer and more delicate hoppers within doors. I observed
that the vitals of the village were the grocery, the bar-room, the
post-office, and the bank; and, as a necessary part of the machinery,
they kept a bell, a big gun, and a fire-engine, at convenient places;
and the houses were so arranged as to make the most of mankind, in
lanes and fronting one another, so that every traveller had to run the
gauntlet, and every man, woman, and child might get a lick at him. Of
course, those who were stationed nearest to the head of the line, where
they could most see and be seen, and have the first blow at him, paid
the highest prices for their places; and the few straggling inhabitants
in the outskirts, where long gaps in the line began to occur, and the
traveller could get over walls or turn aside into cow-paths, and so
escape, paid a very slight ground or window tax. Signs were hung out
on all sides to allure him; some to catch him by the appetite, as the
tavern and victualling cellar; some by the fancy, as the dry goods store
and the jeweller's; and others by the hair or the feet or the skirts,
as the barber, the shoemaker, or the tailor. Besides, there was a still
more terrible standing invitation to call at every one of these houses,
and company expected about these times. For the most part I escaped
wonderfully from these dangers, either by proceeding at once boldly and
without deliberation to the goal, as is recommended to those who run the
gauntlet, or by keeping my thoughts on high things, like Orpheus, who,
"loudly singing the praises of the gods to his lyre, drowned the voices
of the Sirens, and kept out of danger." Sometimes I bolted suddenly,
and nobody could tell my whereabouts, for I did not stand much about
gracefulness, and never hesitated at a gap in a fence. I was even
accustomed to make an irruption into some houses, where I was well
entertained, and after learning the kernels and very last sieveful of
news--what had subsided, the prospects of war and peace, and whether the
world was likely to hold together much longer--I was let out through the
rear avenues, and so escaped to the woods again.

It was very pleasant, when I stayed late in town, to launch myself into
the night, especially if it was dark and tempestuous, and set sail from
some bright village parlor or lecture room, with a bag of rye or Indian
meal upon my shoulder, for my snug harbor in the woods, having made all
tight without and withdrawn under hatches with a merry crew of thoughts,
leaving only my outer man at the helm, or even tying up the helm when it
was plain sailing. I had many a genial thought by the cabin fire "as I
sailed." I was never cast away nor distressed in any weather, though
I encountered some severe storms. It is darker in the woods, even in
common nights, than most suppose. I frequently had to look up at the
opening between the trees above the path in order to learn my route,
and, where there was no cart-path, to feel with my feet the faint track
which I had worn, or steer by the known relation of particular trees
which I felt with my hands, passing between two pines for instance, not
more than eighteen inches apart, in the midst of the woods, invariably,
in the darkest night. Sometimes, after coming home thus late in a dark
and muggy night, when my feet felt the path which my eyes could not see,
dreaming and absent-minded all the way, until I was aroused by having to
raise my hand to lift the latch, I have not been able to recall a single
step of my walk, and I have thought that perhaps my body would find its
way home if its master should forsake it, as the hand finds its way to
the mouth without assistance. Several times, when a visitor chanced to
stay into evening, and it proved a dark night, I was obliged to conduct
him to the cart-path in the rear of the house, and then point out to him
the direction he was to pursue, and in keeping which he was to be guided
rather by his feet than his eyes. One very dark night I directed thus
on their way two young men who had been fishing in the pond. They lived
about a mile off through the woods, and were quite used to the route.
A day or two after one of them told me that they wandered about the
greater part of the night, close by their own premises, and did not get
home till toward morning, by which time, as there had been several
heavy showers in the meanwhile, and the leaves were very wet, they were
drenched to their skins. I have heard of many going astray even in the
village streets, when the darkness was so thick that you could cut it
with a knife, as the saying is. Some who live in the outskirts, having
come to town a-shopping in their wagons, have been obliged to put up for
the night; and gentlemen and ladies making a call have gone half a mile
out of their way, feeling the sidewalk only with their feet, and not
knowing when they turned. It is a surprising and memorable, as well
as valuable experience, to be lost in the woods any time. Often in a
snow-storm, even by day, one will come out upon a well-known road and
yet find it impossible to tell which way leads to the village. Though he
knows that he has travelled it a thousand times, he cannot recognize
a feature in it, but it is as strange to him as if it were a road in
Siberia. By night, of course, the perplexity is infinitely greater.
In our most trivial walks, we are constantly, though unconsciously,
steering like pilots by certain well-known beacons and headlands, and if
we go beyond our usual course we still carry in our minds the bearing
of some neighboring cape; and not till we are completely lost, or turned
round--for a man needs only to be turned round once with his eyes shut
in this world to be lost--do we appreciate the vastness and strangeness
of nature. Every man has to learn the points of compass again as often
as he awakes, whether from sleep or any abstraction. Not till we are
lost, in other words not till we have lost the world, do we begin to
find ourselves, and realize where we are and the infinite extent of our
relations.

One afternoon, near the end of the first summer, when I went to the
village to get a shoe from the cobbler's, I was seized and put into
jail, because, as I have elsewhere related, I did not pay a tax to, or
recognize the authority of, the State which buys and sells men, women,
and children, like cattle, at the door of its senate-house. I had gone
down to the woods for other purposes. But, wherever a man goes, men
will pursue and paw him with their dirty institutions, and, if they can,
constrain him to belong to their desperate odd-fellow society. It is
true, I might have resisted forcibly with more or less effect, might
have run "amok" against society; but I preferred that society should run
"amok" against me, it being the desperate party. However, I was released
the next day, obtained my mended shoe, and returned to the woods in
season to get my dinner of huckleberries on Fair Haven Hill. I was never
molested by any person but those who represented the State. I had no
lock nor bolt but for the desk which held my papers, not even a nail
to put over my latch or windows. I never fastened my door night or day,
though I was to be absent several days; not even when the next fall
I spent a fortnight in the woods of Maine. And yet my house was more
respected than if it had been surrounded by a file of soldiers. The
tired rambler could rest and warm himself by my fire, the literary amuse
himself with the few books on my table, or the curious, by opening my
closet door, see what was left of my dinner, and what prospect I had of
a supper. Yet, though many people of every class came this way to the
pond, I suffered no serious inconvenience from these sources, and I
never missed anything but one small book, a volume of Homer, which
perhaps was improperly gilded, and this I trust a soldier of our camp
has found by this time. I am convinced, that if all men were to live as
simply as I then did, thieving and robbery would be unknown. These take
place only in communities where some have got more than is sufficient
while others have not enough. The Pope's Homers would soon get properly
distributed.

                      "Nec bella fuerunt,
         Faginus astabat dum scyphus ante dapes."

                         "Nor wars did men molest,
         When only beechen bowls were in request."

"You who govern public affairs, what need have you to employ
punishments? Love virtue, and the people will be virtuous. The virtues
of a superior man are like the wind; the virtues of a common man are
like the grass--the grass, when the wind passes over it, bends."




The Ponds


Sometimes, having had a surfeit of human society and gossip, and worn
out all my village friends, I rambled still farther westward than I
habitually dwell, into yet more unfrequented parts of the town, "to
fresh woods and pastures new," or, while the sun was setting, made my
supper of huckleberries and blueberries on Fair Haven Hill, and laid up
a store for several days. The fruits do not yield their true flavor to
the purchaser of them, nor to him who raises them for the market. There
is but one way to obtain it, yet few take that way. If you would know
the flavor of huckleberries, ask the cowboy or the partridge. It is a
vulgar error to suppose that you have tasted huckleberries who never
plucked them. A huckleberry never reaches Boston; they have not been
known there since they grew on her three hills. The ambrosial and
essential part of the fruit is lost with the bloom which is rubbed off
in the market cart, and they become mere provender. As long as Eternal
Justice reigns, not one innocent huckleberry can be transported thither
from the country's hills.

Occasionally, after my hoeing was done for the day, I joined some
impatient companion who had been fishing on the pond since morning,
as silent and motionless as a duck or a floating leaf, and, after
practising various kinds of philosophy, had concluded commonly, by the
time I arrived, that he belonged to the ancient sect of Cænobites.
There was one older man, an excellent fisher and skilled in all kinds of
woodcraft, who was pleased to look upon my house as a building erected
for the convenience of fishermen; and I was equally pleased when he sat
in my doorway to arrange his lines. Once in a while we sat together on
the pond, he at one end of the boat, and I at the other; but not many
words passed between us, for he had grown deaf in his later years, but
he occasionally hummed a psalm, which harmonized well enough with my
philosophy. Our intercourse was thus altogether one of unbroken harmony,
far more pleasing to remember than if it had been carried on by speech.
When, as was commonly the case, I had none to commune with, I used
to raise the echoes by striking with a paddle on the side of my boat,
filling the surrounding woods with circling and dilating sound, stirring
them up as the keeper of a menagerie his wild beasts, until I elicited a
growl from every wooded vale and hillside.

In warm evenings I frequently sat in the boat playing the flute, and
saw the perch, which I seem to have charmed, hovering around me, and
the moon travelling over the ribbed bottom, which was strewed with the
wrecks of the forest. Formerly I had come to this pond adventurously,
from time to time, in dark summer nights, with a companion, and, making
a fire close to the water's edge, which we thought attracted the fishes,
we caught pouts with a bunch of worms strung on a thread, and when we
had done, far in the night, threw the burning brands high into the air
like skyrockets, which, coming down into the pond, were quenched with
a loud hissing, and we were suddenly groping in total darkness. Through
this, whistling a tune, we took our way to the haunts of men again. But
now I had made my home by the shore.

Sometimes, after staying in a village parlor till the family had all
retired, I have returned to the woods, and, partly with a view to the
next day's dinner, spent the hours of midnight fishing from a boat by
moonlight, serenaded by owls and foxes, and hearing, from time to time,
the creaking note of some unknown bird close at hand. These experiences
were very memorable and valuable to me--anchored in forty feet of
water, and twenty or thirty rods from the shore, surrounded sometimes
by thousands of small perch and shiners, dimpling the surface with their
tails in the moonlight, and communicating by a long flaxen line with
mysterious nocturnal fishes which had their dwelling forty feet below,
or sometimes dragging sixty feet of line about the pond as I drifted in
the gentle night breeze, now and then feeling a slight vibration along
it, indicative of some life prowling about its extremity, of dull
uncertain blundering purpose there, and slow to make up its mind.
At length you slowly raise, pulling hand over hand, some horned pout
squeaking and squirming to the upper air. It was very queer, especially
in dark nights, when your thoughts had wandered to vast and cosmogonal
themes in other spheres, to feel this faint jerk, which came to
interrupt your dreams and link you to Nature again. It seemed as if I
might next cast my line upward into the air, as well as downward into
this element, which was scarcely more dense. Thus I caught two fishes as
it were with one hook.

       *       *       *       *       *

The scenery of Walden is on a humble scale, and, though very beautiful,
does not approach to grandeur, nor can it much concern one who has not
long frequented it or lived by its shore; yet this pond is so remarkable
for its depth and purity as to merit a particular description. It is
a clear and deep green well, half a mile long and a mile and three
quarters in circumference, and contains about sixty-one and a half
acres; a perennial spring in the midst of pine and oak woods, without
any visible inlet or outlet except by the clouds and evaporation. The
surrounding hills rise abruptly from the water to the height of forty to
eighty feet, though on the southeast and east they attain to about one
hundred and one hundred and fifty feet respectively, within a quarter
and a third of a mile. They are exclusively woodland. All our Concord
waters have two colors at least; one when viewed at a distance, and
another, more proper, close at hand. The first depends more on the
light, and follows the sky. In clear weather, in summer, they appear
blue at a little distance, especially if agitated, and at a great
distance all appear alike. In stormy weather they are sometimes of a
dark slate-color. The sea, however, is said to be blue one day and green
another without any perceptible change in the atmosphere. I have seen
our river, when, the landscape being covered with snow, both water and
ice were almost as green as grass. Some consider blue "to be the color
of pure water, whether liquid or solid." But, looking directly down into
our waters from a boat, they are seen to be of very different colors.
Walden is blue at one time and green at another, even from the same
point of view. Lying between the earth and the heavens, it partakes of
the color of both. Viewed from a hilltop it reflects the color of the
sky; but near at hand it is of a yellowish tint next the shore where
you can see the sand, then a light green, which gradually deepens to a
uniform dark green in the body of the pond. In some lights, viewed
even from a hilltop, it is of a vivid green next the shore. Some have
referred this to the reflection of the verdure; but it is equally green
there against the railroad sandbank, and in the spring, before the
leaves are expanded, and it may be simply the result of the prevailing
blue mixed with the yellow of the sand. Such is the color of its iris.
This is that portion, also, where in the spring, the ice being warmed
by the heat of the sun reflected from the bottom, and also transmitted
through the earth, melts first and forms a narrow canal about the still
frozen middle. Like the rest of our waters, when much agitated, in clear
weather, so that the surface of the waves may reflect the sky at the
right angle, or because there is more light mixed with it, it appears
at a little distance of a darker blue than the sky itself; and at such
a time, being on its surface, and looking with divided vision, so as to
see the reflection, I have discerned a matchless and indescribable light
blue, such as watered or changeable silks and sword blades suggest, more
cerulean than the sky itself, alternating with the original dark green
on the opposite sides of the waves, which last appeared but muddy in
comparison. It is a vitreous greenish blue, as I remember it, like those
patches of the winter sky seen through cloud vistas in the west before
sundown. Yet a single glass of its water held up to the light is as
colorless as an equal quantity of air. It is well known that a large
plate of glass will have a green tint, owing, as the makers say, to its
"body," but a small piece of the same will be colorless. How large a
body of Walden water would be required to reflect a green tint I have
never proved. The water of our river is black or a very dark brown to
one looking directly down on it, and, like that of most ponds, imparts
to the body of one bathing in it a yellowish tinge; but this water is
of such crystalline purity that the body of the bather appears of an
alabaster whiteness, still more unnatural, which, as the limbs are
magnified and distorted withal, produces a monstrous effect, making fit
studies for a Michael Angelo.

The water is so transparent that the bottom can easily be discerned at
the depth of twenty-five or thirty feet. Paddling over it, you may see,
many feet beneath the surface, the schools of perch and shiners,
perhaps only an inch long, yet the former easily distinguished by their
transverse bars, and you think that they must be ascetic fish that find
a subsistence there. Once, in the winter, many years ago, when I had
been cutting holes through the ice in order to catch pickerel, as I
stepped ashore I tossed my axe back on to the ice, but, as if some evil
genius had directed it, it slid four or five rods directly into one of
the holes, where the water was twenty-five feet deep. Out of curiosity,
I lay down on the ice and looked through the hole, until I saw the axe
a little on one side, standing on its head, with its helve erect and
gently swaying to and fro with the pulse of the pond; and there it
might have stood erect and swaying till in the course of time the handle
rotted off, if I had not disturbed it. Making another hole directly over
it with an ice chisel which I had, and cutting down the longest
birch which I could find in the neighborhood with my knife, I made a
slip-noose, which I attached to its end, and, letting it down carefully,
passed it over the knob of the handle, and drew it by a line along the
birch, and so pulled the axe out again.

The shore is composed of a belt of smooth rounded white stones like
paving-stones, excepting one or two short sand beaches, and is so steep
that in many places a single leap will carry you into water over your
head; and were it not for its remarkable transparency, that would be the
last to be seen of its bottom till it rose on the opposite side. Some
think it is bottomless. It is nowhere muddy, and a casual observer would
say that there were no weeds at all in it; and of noticeable plants,
except in the little meadows recently overflowed, which do not properly
belong to it, a closer scrutiny does not detect a flag nor a bulrush,
nor even a lily, yellow or white, but only a few small heart-leaves and
potamogetons, and perhaps a water-target or two; all which however a
bather might not perceive; and these plants are clean and bright like
the element they grow in. The stones extend a rod or two into the water,
and then the bottom is pure sand, except in the deepest parts, where
there is usually a little sediment, probably from the decay of the
leaves which have been wafted on to it so many successive falls, and a
bright green weed is brought up on anchors even in midwinter.

We have one other pond just like this, White Pond, in Nine Acre Corner,
about two and a half miles westerly; but, though I am acquainted with
most of the ponds within a dozen miles of this centre I do not know a
third of this pure and well-like character. Successive nations perchance
have drank at, admired, and fathomed it, and passed away, and still its
water is green and pellucid as ever. Not an intermitting spring! Perhaps
on that spring morning when Adam and Eve were driven out of Eden Walden
Pond was already in existence, and even then breaking up in a gentle
spring rain accompanied with mist and a southerly wind, and covered with
myriads of ducks and geese, which had not heard of the fall, when still
such pure lakes sufficed them. Even then it had commenced to rise and
fall, and had clarified its waters and colored them of the hue they now
wear, and obtained a patent of Heaven to be the only Walden Pond in
the world and distiller of celestial dews. Who knows in how many
unremembered nations' literatures this has been the Castalian Fountain?
or what nymphs presided over it in the Golden Age? It is a gem of the
first water which Concord wears in her coronet.

Yet perchance the first who came to this well have left some trace of
their footsteps. I have been surprised to detect encircling the pond,
even where a thick wood has just been cut down on the shore, a narrow
shelf-like path in the steep hillside, alternately rising and falling,
approaching and receding from the water's edge, as old probably as the
race of man here, worn by the feet of aboriginal hunters, and still from
time to time unwittingly trodden by the present occupants of the land.
This is particularly distinct to one standing on the middle of the pond
in winter, just after a light snow has fallen, appearing as a clear
undulating white line, unobscured by weeds and twigs, and very obvious
a quarter of a mile off in many places where in summer it is hardly
distinguishable close at hand. The snow reprints it, as it were, in
clear white type alto-relievo. The ornamented grounds of villas which
will one day be built here may still preserve some trace of this.

The pond rises and falls, but whether regularly or not, and within what
period, nobody knows, though, as usual, many pretend to know. It is
commonly higher in the winter and lower in the summer, though not
corresponding to the general wet and dryness. I can remember when it
was a foot or two lower, and also when it was at least five feet higher,
than when I lived by it. There is a narrow sand-bar running into it,
with very deep water on one side, on which I helped boil a kettle of
chowder, some six rods from the main shore, about the year 1824, which
it has not been possible to do for twenty-five years; and, on the other
hand, my friends used to listen with incredulity when I told them, that
a few years later I was accustomed to fish from a boat in a secluded
cove in the woods, fifteen rods from the only shore they knew, which
place was long since converted into a meadow. But the pond has risen
steadily for two years, and now, in the summer of '52, is just five feet
higher than when I lived there, or as high as it was thirty years ago,
and fishing goes on again in the meadow. This makes a difference of
level, at the outside, of six or seven feet; and yet the water shed by
the surrounding hills is insignificant in amount, and this overflow must
be referred to causes which affect the deep springs. This same
summer the pond has begun to fall again. It is remarkable that this
fluctuation, whether periodical or not, appears thus to require many
years for its accomplishment. I have observed one rise and a part of two
falls, and I expect that a dozen or fifteen years hence the water will
again be as low as I have ever known it. Flint's Pond, a mile eastward,
allowing for the disturbance occasioned by its inlets and outlets,
and the smaller intermediate ponds also, sympathize with Walden, and
recently attained their greatest height at the same time with the
latter. The same is true, as far as my observation goes, of White Pond.

This rise and fall of Walden at long intervals serves this use at least;
the water standing at this great height for a year or more, though it
makes it difficult to walk round it, kills the shrubs and trees which
have sprung up about its edge since the last rise--pitch pines, birches,
alders, aspens, and others--and, falling again, leaves an unobstructed
shore; for, unlike many ponds and all waters which are subject to a
daily tide, its shore is cleanest when the water is lowest. On the side
of the pond next my house a row of pitch pines, fifteen feet high, has
been killed and tipped over as if by a lever, and thus a stop put to
their encroachments; and their size indicates how many years have
elapsed since the last rise to this height. By this fluctuation the pond
asserts its title to a shore, and thus the _shore_ is _shorn_, and the
trees cannot hold it by right of possession. These are the lips of the
lake, on which no beard grows. It licks its chaps from time to time.
When the water is at its height, the alders, willows, and maples send
forth a mass of fibrous red roots several feet long from all sides of
their stems in the water, and to the height of three or four feet from
the ground, in the effort to maintain themselves; and I have known the
high blueberry bushes about the shore, which commonly produce no fruit,
bear an abundant crop under these circumstances.

Some have been puzzled to tell how the shore became so regularly paved.
My townsmen have all heard the tradition--the oldest people tell me that
they heard it in their youth--that anciently the Indians were holding
a pow-wow upon a hill here, which rose as high into the heavens as the
pond now sinks deep into the earth, and they used much profanity, as
the story goes, though this vice is one of which the Indians were never
guilty, and while they were thus engaged the hill shook and suddenly
sank, and only one old squaw, named Walden, escaped, and from her the
pond was named. It has been conjectured that when the hill shook these
stones rolled down its side and became the present shore. It is very
certain, at any rate, that once there was no pond here, and now there
is one; and this Indian fable does not in any respect conflict with the
account of that ancient settler whom I have mentioned, who remembers
so well when he first came here with his divining-rod, saw a thin vapor
rising from the sward, and the hazel pointed steadily downward, and he
concluded to dig a well here. As for the stones, many still think that
they are hardly to be accounted for by the action of the waves on these
hills; but I observe that the surrounding hills are remarkably full of
the same kind of stones, so that they have been obliged to pile them
up in walls on both sides of the railroad cut nearest the pond; and,
moreover, there are most stones where the shore is most abrupt; so that,
unfortunately, it is no longer a mystery to me. I detect the paver. If
the name was not derived from that of some English locality--Saffron
Walden, for instance--one might suppose that it was called originally
_Walled-in_ Pond.

The pond was my well ready dug. For four months in the year its water is
as cold as it is pure at all times; and I think that it is then as good
as any, if not the best, in the town. In the winter, all water which is
exposed to the air is colder than springs and wells which are protected
from it. The temperature of the pond water which had stood in the room
where I sat from five o'clock in the afternoon till noon the next day,
the sixth of March, 1846, the thermometer having been up to 65º or 70º
some of the time, owing partly to the sun on the roof, was 42º, or one
degree colder than the water of one of the coldest wells in the village
just drawn. The temperature of the Boiling Spring the same day was 45º,
or the warmest of any water tried, though it is the coldest that I know
of in summer, when, beside, shallow and stagnant surface water is not
mingled with it. Moreover, in summer, Walden never becomes so warm as
most water which is exposed to the sun, on account of its depth. In the
warmest weather I usually placed a pailful in my cellar, where it
became cool in the night, and remained so during the day; though I also
resorted to a spring in the neighborhood. It was as good when a week old
as the day it was dipped, and had no taste of the pump. Whoever camps
for a week in summer by the shore of a pond, needs only bury a pail of
water a few feet deep in the shade of his camp to be independent of the
luxury of ice.

There have been caught in Walden pickerel, one weighing seven pounds--to
say nothing of another which carried off a reel with great velocity,
which the fisherman safely set down at eight pounds because he did
not see him--perch and pouts, some of each weighing over two pounds,
shiners, chivins or roach (_Leuciscus pulchellus_), a very few breams, and
a couple of eels, one weighing four pounds--I am thus particular because
the weight of a fish is commonly its only title to fame, and these are
the only eels I have heard of here;--also, I have a faint recollection
of a little fish some five inches long, with silvery sides and a
greenish back, somewhat dace-like in its character, which I mention here
chiefly to link my facts to fable. Nevertheless, this pond is not very
fertile in fish. Its pickerel, though not abundant, are its chief boast.
I have seen at one time lying on the ice pickerel of at least three
different kinds: a long and shallow one, steel-colored, most like those
caught in the river; a bright golden kind, with greenish reflections
and remarkably deep, which is the most common here; and another,
golden-colored, and shaped like the last, but peppered on the sides with
small dark brown or black spots, intermixed with a few faint blood-red
ones, very much like a trout. The specific name _reticulatus_ would not
apply to this; it should be _guttatus_ rather. These are all very firm
fish, and weigh more than their size promises. The shiners, pouts, and
perch also, and indeed all the fishes which inhabit this pond, are much
cleaner, handsomer, and firmer-fleshed than those in the river and most
other ponds, as the water is purer, and they can easily be distinguished
from them. Probably many ichthyologists would make new varieties of some
of them. There are also a clean race of frogs and tortoises, and a
few mussels in it; muskrats and minks leave their traces about it, and
occasionally a travelling mud-turtle visits it. Sometimes, when I pushed
off my boat in the morning, I disturbed a great mud-turtle which had
secreted himself under the boat in the night. Ducks and geese frequent
it in the spring and fall, the white-bellied swallows (_Hirundo bicolor_)
skim over it, and the peetweets (_Totanus macularius_) "teeter" along its
stony shores all summer. I have sometimes disturbed a fish hawk sitting
on a white pine over the water; but I doubt if it is ever profaned by
the wind of a gull, like Fair Haven. At most, it tolerates one annual
loon. These are all the animals of consequence which frequent it now.

You may see from a boat, in calm weather, near the sandy eastern shore,
where the water is eight or ten feet deep, and also in some other parts
of the pond, some circular heaps half a dozen feet in diameter by a foot
in height, consisting of small stones less than a hen's egg in size,
where all around is bare sand. At first you wonder if the Indians
could have formed them on the ice for any purpose, and so, when the ice
melted, they sank to the bottom; but they are too regular and some of
them plainly too fresh for that. They are similar to those found in
rivers; but as there are no suckers nor lampreys here, I know not by
what fish they could be made. Perhaps they are the nests of the chivin.
These lend a pleasing mystery to the bottom.

The shore is irregular enough not to be monotonous. I have in my mind's
eye the western, indented with deep bays, the bolder northern, and the
beautifully scalloped southern shore, where successive capes overlap
each other and suggest unexplored coves between. The forest has never
so good a setting, nor is so distinctly beautiful, as when seen from the
middle of a small lake amid hills which rise from the water's edge; for
the water in which it is reflected not only makes the best foreground in
such a case, but, with its winding shore, the most natural and agreeable
boundary to it. There is no rawness nor imperfection in its edge there,
as where the axe has cleared a part, or a cultivated field abuts on it.
The trees have ample room to expand on the water side, and each sends
forth its most vigorous branch in that direction. There Nature has woven
a natural selvage, and the eye rises by just gradations from the low
shrubs of the shore to the highest trees. There are few traces of man's
hand to be seen. The water laves the shore as it did a thousand years
ago.

A lake is the landscape's most beautiful and expressive feature. It is
earth's eye; looking into which the beholder measures the depth of
his own nature. The fluviatile trees next the shore are the slender
eyelashes which fringe it, and the wooded hills and cliffs around are
its overhanging brows.

Standing on the smooth sandy beach at the east end of the pond, in
a calm September afternoon, when a slight haze makes the opposite
shore-line indistinct, I have seen whence came the expression, "the
glassy surface of a lake." When you invert your head, it looks like
a thread of finest gossamer stretched across the valley, and gleaming
against the distant pine woods, separating one stratum of the atmosphere
from another. You would think that you could walk dry under it to the
opposite hills, and that the swallows which skim over might perch on it.
Indeed, they sometimes dive below this line, as it were by mistake, and
are undeceived. As you look over the pond westward you are obliged to
employ both your hands to defend your eyes against the reflected as well
as the true sun, for they are equally bright; and if, between the two,
you survey its surface critically, it is literally as smooth as glass,
except where the skater insects, at equal intervals scattered over its
whole extent, by their motions in the sun produce the finest imaginable
sparkle on it, or, perchance, a duck plumes itself, or, as I have said,
a swallow skims so low as to touch it. It may be that in the distance a
fish describes an arc of three or four feet in the air, and there is one
bright flash where it emerges, and another where it strikes the water;
sometimes the whole silvery arc is revealed; or here and there, perhaps,
is a thistle-down floating on its surface, which the fishes dart at and
so dimple it again. It is like molten glass cooled but not congealed,
and the few motes in it are pure and beautiful like the imperfections in
glass. You may often detect a yet smoother and darker water, separated
from the rest as if by an invisible cobweb, boom of the water nymphs,
resting on it. From a hilltop you can see a fish leap in almost any
part; for not a pickerel or shiner picks an insect from this smooth
surface but it manifestly disturbs the equilibrium of the whole lake.
It is wonderful with what elaborateness this simple fact is
advertised--this piscine murder will out--and from my distant perch I
distinguish the circling undulations when they are half a dozen rods
in diameter. You can even detect a water-bug (_Gyrinus_) ceaselessly
progressing over the smooth surface a quarter of a mile off; for they
furrow the water slightly, making a conspicuous ripple bounded by two
diverging lines, but the skaters glide over it without rippling it
perceptibly. When the surface is considerably agitated there are no
skaters nor water-bugs on it, but apparently, in calm days, they leave
their havens and adventurously glide forth from the shore by short
impulses till they completely cover it. It is a soothing employment,
on one of those fine days in the fall when all the warmth of the sun
is fully appreciated, to sit on a stump on such a height as this,
overlooking the pond, and study the dimpling circles which are
incessantly inscribed on its otherwise invisible surface amid the
reflected skies and trees. Over this great expanse there is no
disturbance but it is thus at once gently smoothed away and assuaged,
as, when a vase of water is jarred, the trembling circles seek the shore
and all is smooth again. Not a fish can leap or an insect fall on the
pond but it is thus reported in circling dimples, in lines of beauty, as
it were the constant welling up of its fountain, the gentle pulsing of
its life, the heaving of its breast. The thrills of joy and thrills
of pain are undistinguishable. How peaceful the phenomena of the lake!
Again the works of man shine as in the spring. Ay, every leaf and twig
and stone and cobweb sparkles now at mid-afternoon as when covered with
dew in a spring morning. Every motion of an oar or an insect produces a
flash of light; and if an oar falls, how sweet the echo!

In such a day, in September or October, Walden is a perfect forest
mirror, set round with stones as precious to my eye as if fewer or
rarer. Nothing so fair, so pure, and at the same time so large, as a
lake, perchance, lies on the surface of the earth. Sky water. It needs
no fence. Nations come and go without defiling it. It is a mirror which
no stone can crack, whose quicksilver will never wear off, whose gilding
Nature continually repairs; no storms, no dust, can dim its surface ever
fresh;--a mirror in which all impurity presented to it sinks, swept and
dusted by the sun's hazy brush--this the light dust-cloth--which retains
no breath that is breathed on it, but sends its own to float as clouds
high above its surface, and be reflected in its bosom still.

A field of water betrays the spirit that is in the air. It is
continually receiving new life and motion from above. It is intermediate
in its nature between land and sky. On land only the grass and trees
wave, but the water itself is rippled by the wind. I see where the
breeze dashes across it by the streaks or flakes of light. It is
remarkable that we can look down on its surface. We shall, perhaps,
look down thus on the surface of air at length, and mark where a still
subtler spirit sweeps over it.

The skaters and water-bugs finally disappear in the latter part of
October, when the severe frosts have come; and then and in November,
usually, in a calm day, there is absolutely nothing to ripple the
surface. One November afternoon, in the calm at the end of a rain-storm
of several days' duration, when the sky was still completely overcast
and the air was full of mist, I observed that the pond was remarkably
smooth, so that it was difficult to distinguish its surface; though it
no longer reflected the bright tints of October, but the sombre November
colors of the surrounding hills. Though I passed over it as gently as
possible, the slight undulations produced by my boat extended almost
as far as I could see, and gave a ribbed appearance to the reflections.
But, as I was looking over the surface, I saw here and there at a
distance a faint glimmer, as if some skater insects which had escaped
the frosts might be collected there, or, perchance, the surface, being
so smooth, betrayed where a spring welled up from the bottom. Paddling
gently to one of these places, I was surprised to find myself surrounded
by myriads of small perch, about five inches long, of a rich bronze
color in the green water, sporting there, and constantly rising to
the surface and dimpling it, sometimes leaving bubbles on it. In such
transparent and seemingly bottomless water, reflecting the clouds,
I seemed to be floating through the air as in a balloon, and their
swimming impressed me as a kind of flight or hovering, as if they were
a compact flock of birds passing just beneath my level on the right or
left, their fins, like sails, set all around them. There were many such
schools in the pond, apparently improving the short season before winter
would draw an icy shutter over their broad skylight, sometimes giving
to the surface an appearance as if a slight breeze struck it, or a few
rain-drops fell there. When I approached carelessly and alarmed them,
they made a sudden splash and rippling with their tails, as if one had
struck the water with a brushy bough, and instantly took refuge in the
depths. At length the wind rose, the mist increased, and the waves began
to run, and the perch leaped much higher than before, half out of water,
a hundred black points, three inches long, at once above the surface.
Even as late as the fifth of December, one year, I saw some dimples on
the surface, and thinking it was going to rain hard immediately, the
air being full of mist, I made haste to take my place at the oars and row
homeward; already the rain seemed rapidly increasing, though I felt
none on my cheek, and I anticipated a thorough soaking. But suddenly the
dimples ceased, for they were produced by the perch, which the noise
of my oars had seared into the depths, and I saw their schools dimly
disappearing; so I spent a dry afternoon after all.

An old man who used to frequent this pond nearly sixty years ago, when
it was dark with surrounding forests, tells me that in those days he
sometimes saw it all alive with ducks and other water-fowl, and that
there were many eagles about it. He came here a-fishing, and used an
old log canoe which he found on the shore. It was made of two white pine
logs dug out and pinned together, and was cut off square at the ends.
It was very clumsy, but lasted a great many years before it became
water-logged and perhaps sank to the bottom. He did not know whose it
was; it belonged to the pond. He used to make a cable for his anchor of
strips of hickory bark tied together. An old man, a potter, who lived
by the pond before the Revolution, told him once that there was an iron
chest at the bottom, and that he had seen it. Sometimes it would come
floating up to the shore; but when you went toward it, it would go back
into deep water and disappear. I was pleased to hear of the old log
canoe, which took the place of an Indian one of the same material but
more graceful construction, which perchance had first been a tree on the
bank, and then, as it were, fell into the water, to float there for a
generation, the most proper vessel for the lake. I remember that when I
first looked into these depths there were many large trunks to be seen
indistinctly lying on the bottom, which had either been blown over
formerly, or left on the ice at the last cutting, when wood was cheaper;
but now they have mostly disappeared.

When I first paddled a boat on Walden, it was completely surrounded by
thick and lofty pine and oak woods, and in some of its coves grape-vines
had run over the trees next the water and formed bowers under which a
boat could pass. The hills which form its shores are so steep, and the
woods on them were then so high, that, as you looked down from the west
end, it had the appearance of an amphitheatre for some land of sylvan
spectacle. I have spent many an hour, when I was younger, floating over
its surface as the zephyr willed, having paddled my boat to the middle,
and lying on my back across the seats, in a summer forenoon, dreaming
awake, until I was aroused by the boat touching the sand, and I arose to
see what shore my fates had impelled me to; days when idleness was the
most attractive and productive industry. Many a forenoon have I stolen
away, preferring to spend thus the most valued part of the day; for I
was rich, if not in money, in sunny hours and summer days, and spent
them lavishly; nor do I regret that I did not waste more of them in
the workshop or the teacher's desk. But since I left those shores the
woodchoppers have still further laid them waste, and now for many a
year there will be no more rambling through the aisles of the wood,
with occasional vistas through which you see the water. My Muse may be
excused if she is silent henceforth. How can you expect the birds to
sing when their groves are cut down?

Now the trunks of trees on the bottom, and the old log canoe, and the
dark surrounding woods, are gone, and the villagers, who scarcely know
where it lies, instead of going to the pond to bathe or drink, are
thinking to bring its water, which should be as sacred as the Ganges
at least, to the village in a pipe, to wash their dishes with!--to
earn their Walden by the turning of a cock or drawing of a plug! That
devilish Iron Horse, whose ear-rending neigh is heard throughout the
town, has muddied the Boiling Spring with his foot, and he it is that
has browsed off all the woods on Walden shore, that Trojan horse, with a
thousand men in his belly, introduced by mercenary Greeks! Where is the
country's champion, the Moore of Moore Hill, to meet him at the Deep Cut
and thrust an avenging lance between the ribs of the bloated pest?

Nevertheless, of all the characters I have known, perhaps Walden wears
best, and best preserves its purity. Many men have been likened to it,
but few deserve that honor. Though the woodchoppers have laid bare first
this shore and then that, and the Irish have built their sties by it,
and the railroad has infringed on its border, and the ice-men have
skimmed it once, it is itself unchanged, the same water which my
youthful eyes fell on; all the change is in me. It has not acquired one
permanent wrinkle after all its ripples. It is perennially young, and
I may stand and see a swallow dip apparently to pick an insect from its
surface as of yore. It struck me again tonight, as if I had not seen it
almost daily for more than twenty years--Why, here is Walden, the same
woodland lake that I discovered so many years ago; where a forest was
cut down last winter another is springing up by its shore as lustily as
ever; the same thought is welling up to its surface that was then; it
is the same liquid joy and happiness to itself and its Maker, ay, and it
may be to me. It is the work of a brave man surely, in whom there was no
guile! He rounded this water with his hand, deepened and clarified it in
his thought, and in his will bequeathed it to Concord. I see by its face
that it is visited by the same reflection; and I can almost say, Walden,
is it you?

              It is no dream of mine,
              To ornament a line;
              I cannot come nearer to God and Heaven
              Than I live to Walden even.
              I am its stony shore,
              And the breeze that passes o'er;
              In the hollow of my hand
              Are its water and its sand,
              And its deepest resort
              Lies high in my thought.

The cars never pause to look at it; yet I fancy that the engineers and
firemen and brakemen, and those passengers who have a season ticket and
see it often, are better men for the sight. The engineer does not forget
at night, or his nature does not, that he has beheld this vision of
serenity and purity once at least during the day. Though seen but once,
it helps to wash out State Street and the engine's soot. One proposes
that it be called "God's Drop."

I have said that Walden has no visible inlet nor outlet, but it is on
the one hand distantly and indirectly related to Flint's Pond, which is
more elevated, by a chain of small ponds coming from that quarter, and
on the other directly and manifestly to Concord River, which is lower,
by a similar chain of ponds through which in some other geological
period it may have flowed, and by a little digging, which God forbid,
it can be made to flow thither again. If by living thus reserved and
austere, like a hermit in the woods, so long, it has acquired such
wonderful purity, who would not regret that the comparatively impure
waters of Flint's Pond should be mingled with it, or itself should ever
go to waste its sweetness in the ocean wave?

       *       *       *       *       *

Flint's, or Sandy Pond, in Lincoln, our greatest lake and inland sea,
lies about a mile east of Walden. It is much larger, being said to
contain one hundred and ninety-seven acres, and is more fertile in fish;
but it is comparatively shallow, and not remarkably pure. A walk through
the woods thither was often my recreation. It was worth the while, if
only to feel the wind blow on your cheek freely, and see the waves run,
and remember the life of mariners. I went a-chestnutting there in the
fall, on windy days, when the nuts were dropping into the water and were
washed to my feet; and one day, as I crept along its sedgy shore, the
fresh spray blowing in my face, I came upon the mouldering wreck of a
boat, the sides gone, and hardly more than the impression of its flat
bottom left amid the rushes; yet its model was sharply defined, as if it
were a large decayed pad, with its veins. It was as impressive a wreck
as one could imagine on the seashore, and had as good a moral. It is by
this time mere vegetable mould and undistinguishable pond shore, through
which rushes and flags have pushed up. I used to admire the ripple marks
on the sandy bottom, at the north end of this pond, made firm and hard
to the feet of the wader by the pressure of the water, and the rushes
which grew in Indian file, in waving lines, corresponding to these
marks, rank behind rank, as if the waves had planted them. There also
I have found, in considerable quantities, curious balls, composed
apparently of fine grass or roots, of pipewort perhaps, from half an
inch to four inches in diameter, and perfectly spherical. These wash
back and forth in shallow water on a sandy bottom, and are sometimes
cast on the shore. They are either solid grass, or have a little sand in
the middle. At first you would say that they were formed by the action
of the waves, like a pebble; yet the smallest are made of equally coarse
materials, half an inch long, and they are produced only at one season
of the year. Moreover, the waves, I suspect, do not so much construct
as wear down a material which has already acquired consistency. They
preserve their form when dry for an indefinite period.

_Flint's Pond!_ Such is the poverty of our nomenclature. What right had
the unclean and stupid farmer, whose farm abutted on this sky water,
whose shores he has ruthlessly laid bare, to give his name to it? Some
skin-flint, who loved better the reflecting surface of a dollar, or a
bright cent, in which he could see his own brazen face; who regarded
even the wild ducks which settled in it as trespassers; his fingers
grown into crooked and bony talons from the long habit of grasping
harpy-like;--so it is not named for me. I go not there to see him nor to
hear of him; who never saw it, who never bathed in it, who never loved
it, who never protected it, who never spoke a good word for it, nor
thanked God that He had made it. Rather let it be named from the fishes
that swim in it, the wild fowl or quadrupeds which frequent it, the wild
flowers which grow by its shores, or some wild man or child the thread
of whose history is interwoven with its own; not from him who could show
no title to it but the deed which a like-minded neighbor or legislature
gave him--him who thought only of its money value; whose presence
perchance cursed all the shores; who exhausted the land around it, and
would fain have exhausted the waters within it; who regretted only that
it was not English hay or cranberry meadow--there was nothing to redeem
it, forsooth, in his eyes--and would have drained and sold it for the
mud at its bottom. It did not turn his mill, and it was no _privilege_ to
him to behold it. I respect not his labors, his farm where everything
has its price, who would carry the landscape, who would carry his God,
to market, if he could get anything for him; who goes to market _for_ his
god as it is; on whose farm nothing grows free, whose fields bear no
crops, whose meadows no flowers, whose trees no fruits, but dollars; who
loves not the beauty of his fruits, whose fruits are not ripe for him
till they are turned to dollars. Give me the poverty that enjoys true
wealth. Farmers are respectable and interesting to me in proportion as
they are poor--poor farmers. A model farm! where the house stands like a
fungus in a muckheap, chambers for men, horses, oxen, and swine, cleansed
and uncleansed, all contiguous to one another! Stocked with men! A great
grease-spot, redolent of manures and buttermilk! Under a high state of
cultivation, being manured with the hearts and brains of men! As if you
were to raise your potatoes in the churchyard! Such is a model farm.

No, no; if the fairest features of the landscape are to be named after
men, let them be the noblest and worthiest men alone. Let our lakes
receive as true names at least as the Icarian Sea, where "still the
shore" a "brave attempt resounds."

       *       *       *       *       *

Goose Pond, of small extent, is on my way to Flint's; Fair Haven, an
expansion of Concord River, said to contain some seventy acres, is a
mile southwest; and White Pond, of about forty acres, is a mile and a
half beyond Fair Haven. This is my lake country. These, with Concord
River, are my water privileges; and night and day, year in year out,
they grind such grist as I carry to them.

Since the wood-cutters, and the railroad, and I myself have profaned
Walden, perhaps the most attractive, if not the most beautiful, of all
our lakes, the gem of the woods, is White Pond;--a poor name from its
commonness, whether derived from the remarkable purity of its waters or
the color of its sands. In these as in other respects, however, it is
a lesser twin of Walden. They are so much alike that you would say they
must be connected under ground. It has the same stony shore, and its
waters are of the same hue. As at Walden, in sultry dog-day weather,
looking down through the woods on some of its bays which are not so deep
but that the reflection from the bottom tinges them, its waters are of
a misty bluish-green or glaucous color. Many years since I used to go
there to collect the sand by cartloads, to make sandpaper with, and I
have continued to visit it ever since. One who frequents it proposes to
call it Virid Lake. Perhaps it might be called Yellow Pine Lake, from
the following circumstance. About fifteen years ago you could see the
top of a pitch pine, of the kind called yellow pine hereabouts, though
it is not a distinct species, projecting above the surface in deep
water, many rods from the shore. It was even supposed by some that the
pond had sunk, and this was one of the primitive forest that formerly
stood there. I find that even so long ago as 1792, in a "Topographical
Description of the Town of Concord," by one of its citizens, in the
Collections of the Massachusetts Historical Society, the author, after
speaking of Walden and White Ponds, adds, "In the middle of the latter
may be seen, when the water is very low, a tree which appears as if it
grew in the place where it now stands, although the roots are fifty feet
below the surface of the water; the top of this tree is broken off, and
at that place measures fourteen inches in diameter." In the spring of
'49 I talked with the man who lives nearest the pond in Sudbury, who
told me that it was he who got out this tree ten or fifteen years
before. As near as he could remember, it stood twelve or fifteen rods
from the shore, where the water was thirty or forty feet deep. It was
in the winter, and he had been getting out ice in the forenoon, and had
resolved that in the afternoon, with the aid of his neighbors, he would
take out the old yellow pine. He sawed a channel in the ice toward the
shore, and hauled it over and along and out on to the ice with oxen;
but, before he had gone far in his work, he was surprised to find that
it was wrong end upward, with the stumps of the branches pointing down,
and the small end firmly fastened in the sandy bottom. It was about
a foot in diameter at the big end, and he had expected to get a good
saw-log, but it was so rotten as to be fit only for fuel, if for that.
He had some of it in his shed then. There were marks of an axe and of
woodpeckers on the butt. He thought that it might have been a dead tree
on the shore, but was finally blown over into the pond, and after the
top had become water-logged, while the butt-end was still dry and light,
had drifted out and sunk wrong end up. His father, eighty years old,
could not remember when it was not there. Several pretty large logs may
still be seen lying on the bottom, where, owing to the undulation of the
surface, they look like huge water snakes in motion.

This pond has rarely been profaned by a boat, for there is little in it
to tempt a fisherman. Instead of the white lily, which requires mud, or
the common sweet flag, the blue flag (_Iris versicolor_) grows thinly in
the pure water, rising from the stony bottom all around the shore, where
it is visited by hummingbirds in June; and the color both of its bluish
blades and its flowers and especially their reflections, is in singular
harmony with the glaucous water.

White Pond and Walden are great crystals on the surface of the earth,
Lakes of Light. If they were permanently congealed, and small enough
to be clutched, they would, perchance, be carried off by slaves, like
precious stones, to adorn the heads of emperors; but being liquid, and
ample, and secured to us and our successors forever, we disregard them,
and run after the diamond of Kohinoor. They are too pure to have a
market value; they contain no muck. How much more beautiful than our
lives, how much more transparent than our characters, are they! We
never learned meanness of them. How much fairer than the pool before the
farmer's door, in which his ducks swim! Hither the clean wild ducks come.
Nature has no human inhabitant who appreciates her. The birds with their
plumage and their notes are in harmony with the flowers, but what
youth or maiden conspires with the wild luxuriant beauty of Nature? She
flourishes most alone, far from the towns where they reside. Talk of
heaven! ye disgrace earth.




Baker Farm


Sometimes I rambled to pine groves, standing like temples, or like
fleets at sea, full-rigged, with wavy boughs, and rippling with light,
so soft and green and shady that the Druids would have forsaken their
oaks to worship in them; or to the cedar wood beyond Flint's Pond, where
the trees, covered with hoary blue berries, spiring higher and higher,
are fit to stand before Valhalla, and the creeping juniper covers the
ground with wreaths full of fruit; or to swamps where the usnea lichen
hangs in festoons from the white spruce trees, and toadstools, round
tables of the swamp gods, cover the ground, and more beautiful fungi
adorn the stumps, like butterflies or shells, vegetable winkles; where
the swamp-pink and dogwood grow, the red alderberry glows like eyes of
imps, the waxwork grooves and crushes the hardest woods in its folds,
and the wild holly berries make the beholder forget his home with their
beauty, and he is dazzled and tempted by nameless other wild forbidden
fruits, too fair for mortal taste. Instead of calling on some scholar,
I paid many a visit to particular trees, of kinds which are rare in this
neighborhood, standing far away in the middle of some pasture, or in the
depths of a wood or swamp, or on a hilltop; such as the black birch, of
which we have some handsome specimens two feet in diameter; its cousin,
the yellow birch, with its loose golden vest, perfumed like the first;
the beech, which has so neat a bole and beautifully lichen-painted,
perfect in all its details, of which, excepting scattered specimens, I
know but one small grove of sizable trees left in the township, supposed
by some to have been planted by the pigeons that were once baited with
beechnuts near by; it is worth the while to see the silver grain
sparkle when you split this wood; the bass; the hornbeam; the _Celtis
occidentalis_, or false elm, of which we have but one well-grown; some
taller mast of a pine, a shingle tree, or a more perfect hemlock than
usual, standing like a pagoda in the midst of the woods; and many
others I could mention. These were the shrines I visited both summer and
winter.

Once it chanced that I stood in the very abutment of a rainbow's arch,
which filled the lower stratum of the atmosphere, tinging the grass and
leaves around, and dazzling me as if I looked through colored crystal.
It was a lake of rainbow light, in which, for a short while, I lived
like a dolphin. If it had lasted longer it might have tinged my
employments and life. As I walked on the railroad causeway, I used
to wonder at the halo of light around my shadow, and would fain fancy
myself one of the elect. One who visited me declared that the shadows
of some Irishmen before him had no halo about them, that it was only
natives that were so distinguished. Benvenuto Cellini tells us in his
memoirs, that, after a certain terrible dream or vision which he had
during his confinement in the castle of St. Angelo a resplendent light
appeared over the shadow of his head at morning and evening, whether
he was in Italy or France, and it was particularly conspicuous when the
grass was moist with dew. This was probably the same phenomenon to which
I have referred, which is especially observed in the morning, but also
at other times, and even by moonlight. Though a constant one, it is
not commonly noticed, and, in the case of an excitable imagination like
Cellini's, it would be basis enough for superstition. Beside, he tells
us that he showed it to very few. But are they not indeed distinguished
who are conscious that they are regarded at all?

       *       *       *       *       *

I set out one afternoon to go a-fishing to Fair Haven, through the
woods, to eke out my scanty fare of vegetables. My way led through
Pleasant Meadow, an adjunct of the Baker Farm, that retreat of which a
poet has since sung, beginning,--

               "Thy entry is a pleasant field,
                Which some mossy fruit trees yield
                Partly to a ruddy brook,
                By gliding musquash undertook,
                And mercurial trout,
                Darting about."

I thought of living there before I went to Walden. I "hooked" the
apples, leaped the brook, and scared the musquash and the trout. It
was one of those afternoons which seem indefinitely long before one,
in which many events may happen, a large portion of our natural life,
though it was already half spent when I started. By the way there came
up a shower, which compelled me to stand half an hour under a pine,
piling boughs over my head, and wearing my handkerchief for a shed; and
when at length I had made one cast over the pickerelweed, standing up
to my middle in water, I found myself suddenly in the shadow of a cloud,
and the thunder began to rumble with such emphasis that I could do no
more than listen to it. The gods must be proud, thought I, with such
forked flashes to rout a poor unarmed fisherman. So I made haste for
shelter to the nearest hut, which stood half a mile from any road, but
so much the nearer to the pond, and had long been uninhabited:--

                 "And here a poet builded,
                     In the completed years,
                  For behold a trivial cabin
                     That to destruction steers."

So the Muse fables. But therein, as I found, dwelt now John Field, an
Irishman, and his wife, and several children, from the broad-faced boy
who assisted his father at his work, and now came running by his
side from the bog to escape the rain, to the wrinkled, sibyl-like,
cone-headed infant that sat upon its father's knee as in the palaces
of nobles, and looked out from its home in the midst of wet and hunger
inquisitively upon the stranger, with the privilege of infancy, not
knowing but it was the last of a noble line, and the hope and cynosure
of the world, instead of John Field's poor starveling brat. There we sat
together under that part of the roof which leaked the least, while it
showered and thundered without. I had sat there many times of old
before the ship was built that floated his family to America. An honest,
hard-working, but shiftless man plainly was John Field; and his wife,
she too was brave to cook so many successive dinners in the recesses of
that lofty stove; with round greasy face and bare breast, still thinking
to improve her condition one day; with the never absent mop in one hand,
and yet no effects of it visible anywhere. The chickens, which had also
taken shelter here from the rain, stalked about the room like members
of the family, too humanized, methought, to roast well. They stood and
looked in my eye or pecked at my shoe significantly. Meanwhile my
host told me his story, how hard he worked "bogging" for a neighboring
farmer, turning up a meadow with a spade or bog hoe at the rate of ten
dollars an acre and the use of the land with manure for one year, and
his little broad-faced son worked cheerfully at his father's side the
while, not knowing how poor a bargain the latter had made. I tried to
help him with my experience, telling him that he was one of my nearest
neighbors, and that I too, who came a-fishing here, and looked like a
loafer, was getting my living like himself; that I lived in a tight,
light, and clean house, which hardly cost more than the annual rent of
such a ruin as his commonly amounts to; and how, if he chose, he might
in a month or two build himself a palace of his own; that I did not use
tea, nor coffee, nor butter, nor milk, nor fresh meat, and so did not
have to work to get them; again, as I did not work hard, I did not have
to eat hard, and it cost me but a trifle for my food; but as he began
with tea, and coffee, and butter, and milk, and beef, he had to work
hard to pay for them, and when he had worked hard he had to eat hard
again to repair the waste of his system--and so it was as broad as
it was long, indeed it was broader than it was long, for he was
discontented and wasted his life into the bargain; and yet he had rated
it as a gain in coming to America, that here you could get tea, and
coffee, and meat every day. But the only true America is that country
where you are at liberty to pursue such a mode of life as may enable you
to do without these, and where the state does not endeavor to compel
you to sustain the slavery and war and other superfluous expenses
which directly or indirectly result from the use of such things. For I
purposely talked to him as if he were a philosopher, or desired to be
one. I should be glad if all the meadows on the earth were left in a
wild state, if that were the consequence of men's beginning to redeem
themselves. A man will not need to study history to find out what is
best for his own culture. But alas! the culture of an Irishman is an
enterprise to be undertaken with a sort of moral bog hoe. I told him,
that as he worked so hard at bogging, he required thick boots and stout
clothing, which yet were soon soiled and worn out, but I wore light
shoes and thin clothing, which cost not half so much, though he might
think that I was dressed like a gentleman (which, however, was not the
case), and in an hour or two, without labor, but as a recreation, I
could, if I wished, catch as many fish as I should want for two days, or
earn enough money to support me a week. If he and his family would
live simply, they might all go a-huckleberrying in the summer for their
amusement. John heaved a sigh at this, and his wife stared with arms
a-kimbo, and both appeared to be wondering if they had capital enough to
begin such a course with, or arithmetic enough to carry it through. It
was sailing by dead reckoning to them, and they saw not clearly how to
make their port so; therefore I suppose they still take life bravely,
after their fashion, face to face, giving it tooth and nail, not having
skill to split its massive columns with any fine entering wedge, and
rout it in detail;--thinking to deal with it roughly, as one
should handle a thistle. But they fight at an overwhelming
disadvantage--living, John Field, alas! without arithmetic, and failing
so.

"Do you ever fish?" I asked. "Oh yes, I catch a mess now and then when
I am lying by; good perch I catch."--"What's your bait?" "I catch shiners
with fishworms, and bait the perch with them." "You'd better go now,
John," said his wife, with glistening and hopeful face; but John
demurred.

The shower was now over, and a rainbow above the eastern woods promised
a fair evening; so I took my departure. When I had got without I asked
for a drink, hoping to get a sight of the well bottom, to complete my
survey of the premises; but there, alas! are shallows and quicksands,
and rope broken withal, and bucket irrecoverable. Meanwhile the right
culinary vessel was selected, water was seemingly distilled, and after
consultation and long delay passed out to the thirsty one--not yet
suffered to cool, not yet to settle. Such gruel sustains life here, I
thought; so, shutting my eyes, and excluding the motes by a skilfully
directed undercurrent, I drank to genuine hospitality the heartiest
draught I could. I am not squeamish in such cases when manners are
concerned.

As I was leaving the Irishman's roof after the rain, bending my steps
again to the pond, my haste to catch pickerel, wading in retired
meadows, in sloughs and bog-holes, in forlorn and savage places,
appeared for an instant trivial to me who had been sent to school and
college; but as I ran down the hill toward the reddening west, with the
rainbow over my shoulder, and some faint tinkling sounds borne to my ear
through the cleansed air, from I know not what quarter, my Good Genius
seemed to say--Go fish and hunt far and wide day by day--farther and
wider--and rest thee by many brooks and hearth-sides without misgiving.
Remember thy Creator in the days of thy youth. Rise free from care
before the dawn, and seek adventures. Let the noon find thee by other
lakes, and the night overtake thee everywhere at home. There are no
larger fields than these, no worthier games than may here be played.
Grow wild according to thy nature, like these sedges and brakes, which
will never become English hay. Let the thunder rumble; what if it
threaten ruin to farmers' crops? That is not its errand to thee. Take
shelter under the cloud, while they flee to carts and sheds. Let not
to get a living be thy trade, but thy sport. Enjoy the land, but own it
not. Through want of enterprise and faith men are where they are, buying
and selling, and spending their lives like serfs.

O Baker Farm!

               "Landscape where the richest element
                Is a little sunshine innocent."...

               "No one runs to revel
                On thy rail-fenced lea."...

               "Debate with no man hast thou,
                   With questions art never perplexed,
                As tame at the first sight as now,
                   In thy plain russet gabardine dressed."...

               "Come ye who love,
                   And ye who hate,
                Children of the Holy Dove,
                   And Guy Faux of the state,
                And hang conspiracies
                From the tough rafters of the trees!"

Men come tamely home at night only from the next field or street, where
their household echoes haunt, and their life pines because it breathes
its own breath over again; their shadows, morning and evening, reach
farther than their daily steps. We should come home from far, from
adventures, and perils, and discoveries every day, with new experience
and character.

Before I had reached the pond some fresh impulse had brought out John
Field, with altered mind, letting go "bogging" ere this sunset. But he,
poor man, disturbed only a couple of fins while I was catching a fair
string, and he said it was his luck; but when we changed seats in the
boat luck changed seats too. Poor John Field!--I trust he does not read
this, unless he will improve by it--thinking to live by some derivative
old-country mode in this primitive new country--to catch perch with
shiners. It is good bait sometimes, I allow. With his horizon all
his own, yet he a poor man, born to be poor, with his inherited Irish
poverty or poor life, his Adam's grandmother and boggy ways, not to
rise in this world, he nor his posterity, till their wading webbed
bog-trotting feet get _talaria_ to their heels.




Higher Laws


As I came home through the woods with my string of fish, trailing
my pole, it being now quite dark, I caught a glimpse of a woodchuck
stealing across my path, and felt a strange thrill of savage delight,
and was strongly tempted to seize and devour him raw; not that I was
hungry then, except for that wildness which he represented. Once or
twice, however, while I lived at the pond, I found myself ranging the
woods, like a half-starved hound, with a strange abandonment, seeking
some kind of venison which I might devour, and no morsel could have been
too savage for me. The wildest scenes had become unaccountably familiar.
I found in myself, and still find, an instinct toward a higher, or,
as it is named, spiritual life, as do most men, and another toward a
primitive rank and savage one, and I reverence them both. I love the
wild not less than the good. The wildness and adventure that are in
fishing still recommended it to me. I like sometimes to take rank hold
on life and spend my day more as the animals do. Perhaps I have owed
to this employment and to hunting, when quite young, my closest
acquaintance with Nature. They early introduce us to and detain us
in scenery with which otherwise, at that age, we should have little
acquaintance. Fishermen, hunters, woodchoppers, and others, spending
their lives in the fields and woods, in a peculiar sense a part of
Nature themselves, are often in a more favorable mood for observing her,
in the intervals of their pursuits, than philosophers or poets even, who
approach her with expectation. She is not afraid to exhibit herself to
them. The traveller on the prairie is naturally a hunter, on the head
waters of the Missouri and Columbia a trapper, and at the Falls of
St. Mary a fisherman. He who is only a traveller learns things at
second-hand and by the halves, and is poor authority. We are most
interested when science reports what those men already know practically
or instinctively, for that alone is a true _humanity_, or account of human
experience.

They mistake who assert that the Yankee has few amusements, because he
has not so many public holidays, and men and boys do not play so many
games as they do in England, for here the more primitive but solitary
amusements of hunting, fishing, and the like have not yet given place
to the former. Almost every New England boy among my contemporaries
shouldered a fowling-piece between the ages of ten and fourteen; and his
hunting and fishing grounds were not limited, like the preserves of an
English nobleman, but were more boundless even than those of a savage.
No wonder, then, that he did not oftener stay to play on the common. But
already a change is taking place, owing, not to an increased humanity,
but to an increased scarcity of game, for perhaps the hunter is the
greatest friend of the animals hunted, not excepting the Humane Society.

Moreover, when at the pond, I wished sometimes to add fish to my fare
for variety. I have actually fished from the same kind of necessity that
the first fishers did. Whatever humanity I might conjure up against it
was all factitious, and concerned my philosophy more than my feelings.
I speak of fishing only now, for I had long felt differently about
fowling, and sold my gun before I went to the woods. Not that I am less
humane than others, but I did not perceive that my feelings were much
affected. I did not pity the fishes nor the worms. This was habit. As
for fowling, during the last years that I carried a gun my excuse was
that I was studying ornithology, and sought only new or rare birds. But
I confess that I am now inclined to think that there is a finer way of
studying ornithology than this. It requires so much closer attention
to the habits of the birds, that, if for that reason only, I have been
willing to omit the gun. Yet notwithstanding the objection on the score
of humanity, I am compelled to doubt if equally valuable sports are
ever substituted for these; and when some of my friends have asked me
anxiously about their boys, whether they should let them hunt, I have
answered, yes--remembering that it was one of the best parts of my
education--_make_ them hunters, though sportsmen only at first, if
possible, mighty hunters at last, so that they shall not find game large
enough for them in this or any vegetable wilderness--hunters as well as
fishers of men. Thus far I am of the opinion of Chaucer's nun, who

                 "yave not of the text a pulled hen
            That saith that hunters ben not holy men."

There is a period in the history of the individual, as of the race, when
the hunters are the "best men," as the Algonquins called them. We cannot
but pity the boy who has never fired a gun; he is no more humane, while
his education has been sadly neglected. This was my answer with respect
to those youths who were bent on this pursuit, trusting that they would
soon outgrow it. No humane being, past the thoughtless age of boyhood,
will wantonly murder any creature which holds its life by the same
tenure that he does. The hare in its extremity cries like a child.
I warn you, mothers, that my sympathies do not always make the usual
phil-_anthropic_ distinctions.

Such is oftenest the young man's introduction to the forest, and the
most original part of himself. He goes thither at first as a hunter and
fisher, until at last, if he has the seeds of a better life in him, he
distinguishes his proper objects, as a poet or naturalist it may be,
and leaves the gun and fish-pole behind. The mass of men are still and
always young in this respect. In some countries a hunting parson is no
uncommon sight. Such a one might make a good shepherd's dog, but is far
from being the Good Shepherd. I have been surprised to consider that the
only obvious employment, except wood-chopping, ice-cutting, or the like
business, which ever to my knowledge detained at Walden Pond for a whole
half-day any of my fellow-citizens, whether fathers or children of the
town, with just one exception, was fishing. Commonly they did not think
that they were lucky, or well paid for their time, unless they got a
long string of fish, though they had the opportunity of seeing the pond
all the while. They might go there a thousand times before the sediment
of fishing would sink to the bottom and leave their purpose pure; but
no doubt such a clarifying process would be going on all the while.
The Governor and his Council faintly remember the pond, for they went
a-fishing there when they were boys; but now they are too old and
dignified to go a-fishing, and so they know it no more forever. Yet even
they expect to go to heaven at last. If the legislature regards it, it
is chiefly to regulate the number of hooks to be used there; but they
know nothing about the hook of hooks with which to angle for the pond
itself, impaling the legislature for a bait. Thus, even in civilized
communities, the embryo man passes through the hunter stage of
development.

I have found repeatedly, of late years, that I cannot fish without
falling a little in self-respect. I have tried it again and again. I
have skill at it, and, like many of my fellows, a certain instinct for
it, which revives from time to time, but always when I have done I feel
that it would have been better if I had not fished. I think that I do
not mistake. It is a faint intimation, yet so are the first streaks of
morning. There is unquestionably this instinct in me which belongs to
the lower orders of creation; yet with every year I am less a fisherman,
though without more humanity or even wisdom; at present I am no
fisherman at all. But I see that if I were to live in a wilderness
I should again be tempted to become a fisher and hunter in earnest.
Beside, there is something essentially unclean about this diet and all
flesh, and I began to see where housework commences, and whence the
endeavor, which costs so much, to wear a tidy and respectable appearance
each day, to keep the house sweet and free from all ill odors and
sights. Having been my own butcher and scullion and cook, as well as
the gentleman for whom the dishes were served up, I can speak from an
unusually complete experience. The practical objection to animal food in
my case was its uncleanness; and besides, when I had caught and
cleaned and cooked and eaten my fish, they seemed not to have fed me
essentially. It was insignificant and unnecessary, and cost more than it
came to. A little bread or a few potatoes would have done as well, with
less trouble and filth. Like many of my contemporaries, I had rarely
for many years used animal food, or tea, or coffee, etc.; not so much
because of any ill effects which I had traced to them, as because they
were not agreeable to my imagination. The repugnance to animal food
is not the effect of experience, but is an instinct. It appeared more
beautiful to live low and fare hard in many respects; and though I never
did so, I went far enough to please my imagination. I believe that every
man who has ever been earnest to preserve his higher or poetic faculties
in the best condition has been particularly inclined to abstain from
animal food, and from much food of any kind. It is a significant fact,
stated by entomologists--I find it in Kirby and Spence--that "some
insects in their perfect state, though furnished with organs of feeding,
make no use of them"; and they lay it down as "a general rule, that
almost all insects in this state eat much less than in that of larvæ.
The voracious caterpillar when transformed into a butterfly... and the
gluttonous maggot when become a fly" content themselves with a drop or
two of honey or some other sweet liquid. The abdomen under the wings
of the butterfly still represents the larva. This is the tidbit which
tempts his insectivorous fate. The gross feeder is a man in the larva
state; and there are whole nations in that condition, nations without
fancy or imagination, whose vast abdomens betray them.

It is hard to provide and cook so simple and clean a diet as will not
offend the imagination; but this, I think, is to be fed when we feed the
body; they should both sit down at the same table. Yet perhaps this may
be done. The fruits eaten temperately need not make us ashamed of
our appetites, nor interrupt the worthiest pursuits. But put an extra
condiment into your dish, and it will poison you. It is not worth the
while to live by rich cookery. Most men would feel shame if caught
preparing with their own hands precisely such a dinner, whether of
animal or vegetable food, as is every day prepared for them by others.
Yet till this is otherwise we are not civilized, and, if gentlemen and
ladies, are not true men and women. This certainly suggests what change
is to be made. It may be vain to ask why the imagination will not be
reconciled to flesh and fat. I am satisfied that it is not. Is it not a
reproach that man is a carnivorous animal? True, he can and does live,
in a great measure, by preying on other animals; but this is a miserable
way--as any one who will go to snaring rabbits, or slaughtering lambs,
may learn--and he will be regarded as a benefactor of his race who shall
teach man to confine himself to a more innocent and wholesome diet.
Whatever my own practice may be, I have no doubt that it is a part of
the destiny of the human race, in its gradual improvement, to leave off
eating animals, as surely as the savage tribes have left off eating each
other when they came in contact with the more civilized.

If one listens to the faintest but constant suggestions of his genius,
which are certainly true, he sees not to what extremes, or even
insanity, it may lead him; and yet that way, as he grows more resolute
and faithful, his road lies. The faintest assured objection which one
healthy man feels will at length prevail over the arguments and customs
of mankind. No man ever followed his genius till it misled him. Though
the result were bodily weakness, yet perhaps no one can say that the
consequences were to be regretted, for these were a life in conformity
to higher principles. If the day and the night are such that you greet
them with joy, and life emits a fragrance like flowers and sweet-scented
herbs, is more elastic, more starry, more immortal--that is your
success. All nature is your congratulation, and you have cause
momentarily to bless yourself. The greatest gains and values are
farthest from being appreciated. We easily come to doubt if they exist.
We soon forget them. They are the highest reality. Perhaps the facts
most astounding and most real are never communicated by man to man.
The true harvest of my daily life is somewhat as intangible and
indescribable as the tints of morning or evening. It is a little
star-dust caught, a segment of the rainbow which I have clutched.

Yet, for my part, I was never unusually squeamish; I could sometimes eat
a fried rat with a good relish, if it were necessary. I am glad to have
drunk water so long, for the same reason that I prefer the natural sky
to an opium-eater's heaven. I would fain keep sober always; and there
are infinite degrees of drunkenness. I believe that water is the only
drink for a wise man; wine is not so noble a liquor; and think of
dashing the hopes of a morning with a cup of warm coffee, or of an
evening with a dish of tea! Ah, how low I fall when I am tempted by
them! Even music may be intoxicating. Such apparently slight causes
destroyed Greece and Rome, and will destroy England and America. Of all
ebriosity, who does not prefer to be intoxicated by the air he breathes?
I have found it to be the most serious objection to coarse labors long
continued, that they compelled me to eat and drink coarsely also. But
to tell the truth, I find myself at present somewhat less particular in
these respects. I carry less religion to the table, ask no blessing; not
because I am wiser than I was, but, I am obliged to confess, because,
however much it is to be regretted, with years I have grown more coarse
and indifferent. Perhaps these questions are entertained only in youth,
as most believe of poetry. My practice is "nowhere," my opinion is here.
Nevertheless I am far from regarding myself as one of those privileged
ones to whom the Ved refers when it says, that "he who has true faith in
the Omnipresent Supreme Being may eat all that exists," that is, is not
bound to inquire what is his food, or who prepares it; and even in their
case it is to be observed, as a Hindoo commentator has remarked, that
the Vedant limits this privilege to "the time of distress."

Who has not sometimes derived an inexpressible satisfaction from his
food in which appetite had no share? I have been thrilled to think that
I owed a mental perception to the commonly gross sense of taste, that
I have been inspired through the palate, that some berries which I had
eaten on a hillside had fed my genius. "The soul not being mistress
of herself," says Thseng-tseu, "one looks, and one does not see; one
listens, and one does not hear; one eats, and one does not know the
savor of food." He who distinguishes the true savor of his food can
never be a glutton; he who does not cannot be otherwise. A puritan
may go to his brown-bread crust with as gross an appetite as ever an
alderman to his turtle. Not that food which entereth into the mouth
defileth a man, but the appetite with which it is eaten. It is neither
the quality nor the quantity, but the devotion to sensual savors; when
that which is eaten is not a viand to sustain our animal, or inspire our
spiritual life, but food for the worms that possess us. If the hunter
has a taste for mud-turtles, muskrats, and other such savage tidbits,
the fine lady indulges a taste for jelly made of a calf's foot, or for
sardines from over the sea, and they are even. He goes to the mill-pond,
she to her preserve-pot. The wonder is how they, how you and I, can live
this slimy, beastly life, eating and drinking.

Our whole life is startlingly moral. There is never an instant's truce
between virtue and vice. Goodness is the only investment that never
fails. In the music of the harp which trembles round the world it is the
insisting on this which thrills us. The harp is the travelling patterer
for the Universe's Insurance Company, recommending its laws, and our
little goodness is all the assessment that we pay. Though the youth at
last grows indifferent, the laws of the universe are not indifferent,
but are forever on the side of the most sensitive. Listen to every
zephyr for some reproof, for it is surely there, and he is unfortunate
who does not hear it. We cannot touch a string or move a stop but the
charming moral transfixes us. Many an irksome noise, go a long way off,
is heard as music, a proud, sweet satire on the meanness of our lives.

We are conscious of an animal in us, which awakens in proportion as our
higher nature slumbers. It is reptile and sensual, and perhaps cannot be
wholly expelled; like the worms which, even in life and health, occupy
our bodies. Possibly we may withdraw from it, but never change its
nature. I fear that it may enjoy a certain health of its own; that we
may be well, yet not pure. The other day I picked up the lower jaw of
a hog, with white and sound teeth and tusks, which suggested that
there was an animal health and vigor distinct from the spiritual. This
creature succeeded by other means than temperance and purity. "That
in which men differ from brute beasts," says Mencius, "is a thing very
inconsiderable; the common herd lose it very soon; superior men preserve
it carefully." Who knows what sort of life would result if we had
attained to purity? If I knew so wise a man as could teach me purity I
would go to seek him forthwith. "A command over our passions, and over
the external senses of the body, and good acts, are declared by the Ved
to be indispensable in the mind's approximation to God." Yet the spirit
can for the time pervade and control every member and function of the
body, and transmute what in form is the grossest sensuality into
purity and devotion. The generative energy, which, when we are loose,
dissipates and makes us unclean, when we are continent invigorates
and inspires us. Chastity is the flowering of man; and what are called
Genius, Heroism, Holiness, and the like, are but various fruits which
succeed it. Man flows at once to God when the channel of purity is
open. By turns our purity inspires and our impurity casts us down. He is
blessed who is assured that the animal is dying out in him day by day,
and the divine being established. Perhaps there is none but has cause
for shame on account of the inferior and brutish nature to which he
is allied. I fear that we are such gods or demigods only as fauns and
satyrs, the divine allied to beasts, the creatures of appetite, and
that, to some extent, our very life is our disgrace.--

            "How happy's he who hath due place assigned
             To his beasts and disafforested his mind!
                          . . . . . . .
             Can use this horse, goat, wolf, and ev'ry beast,
             And is not ass himself to all the rest!
             Else man not only is the herd of swine,
             But he's those devils too which did incline
             Them to a headlong rage, and made them worse."

All sensuality is one, though it takes many forms; all purity is one. It
is the same whether a man eat, or drink, or cohabit, or sleep sensually.
They are but one appetite, and we only need to see a person do any one
of these things to know how great a sensualist he is. The impure can
neither stand nor sit with purity. When the reptile is attacked at
one mouth of his burrow, he shows himself at another. If you would be
chaste, you must be temperate. What is chastity? How shall a man know if
he is chaste? He shall not know it. We have heard of this virtue, but
we know not what it is. We speak conformably to the rumor which we have
heard. From exertion come wisdom and purity; from sloth ignorance and
sensuality. In the student sensuality is a sluggish habit of mind. An
unclean person is universally a slothful one, one who sits by a stove,
whom the sun shines on prostrate, who reposes without being fatigued. If
you would avoid uncleanness, and all the sins, work earnestly, though it
be at cleaning a stable. Nature is hard to be overcome, but she must be
overcome. What avails it that you are Christian, if you are not purer
than the heathen, if you deny yourself no more, if you are not more
religious? I know of many systems of religion esteemed heathenish whose
precepts fill the reader with shame, and provoke him to new endeavors,
though it be to the performance of rites merely.

I hesitate to say these things, but it is not because of the subject--I
care not how obscene my _words_ are--but because I cannot speak of them
without betraying my impurity. We discourse freely without shame of one
form of sensuality, and are silent about another. We are so degraded
that we cannot speak simply of the necessary functions of human nature.
In earlier ages, in some countries, every function was reverently
spoken of and regulated by law. Nothing was too trivial for the Hindoo
lawgiver, however offensive it may be to modern taste. He teaches how to
eat, drink, cohabit, void excrement and urine, and the like, elevating
what is mean, and does not falsely excuse himself by calling these
things trifles.

Every man is the builder of a temple, called his body, to the god he
worships, after a style purely his own, nor can he get off by hammering
marble instead. We are all sculptors and painters, and our material
is our own flesh and blood and bones. Any nobleness begins at once to
refine a man's features, any meanness or sensuality to imbrute them.

John Farmer sat at his door one September evening, after a hard day's
work, his mind still running on his labor more or less. Having bathed,
he sat down to re-create his intellectual man. It was a rather cool
evening, and some of his neighbors were apprehending a frost. He had
not attended to the train of his thoughts long when he heard some one
playing on a flute, and that sound harmonized with his mood. Still he
thought of his work; but the burden of his thought was, that though this
kept running in his head, and he found himself planning and contriving
it against his will, yet it concerned him very little. It was no more
than the scurf of his skin, which was constantly shuffled off. But the
notes of the flute came home to his ears out of a different sphere
from that he worked in, and suggested work for certain faculties which
slumbered in him. They gently did away with the street, and the village,
and the state in which he lived. A voice said to him--Why do you stay
here and live this mean moiling life, when a glorious existence is
possible for you? Those same stars twinkle over other fields than
these.--But how to come out of this condition and actually migrate
thither? All that he could think of was to practise some new austerity,
to let his mind descend into his body and redeem it, and treat himself
with ever increasing respect.




Brute Neighbors


Sometimes I had a companion in my fishing, who came through the village
to my house from the other side of the town, and the catching of the
dinner was as much a social exercise as the eating of it.

_Hermit._ I wonder what the world is doing now. I have not heard so much
as a locust over the sweet-fern these three hours. The pigeons are all
asleep upon their roosts--no flutter from them. Was that a farmer's noon
horn which sounded from beyond the woods just now? The hands are coming
in to boiled salt beef and cider and Indian bread. Why will men worry
themselves so? He that does not eat need not work. I wonder how much
they have reaped. Who would live there where a body can never think
for the barking of Bose? And oh, the housekeeping! to keep bright the
devil's door-knobs, and scour his tubs this bright day! Better not
keep a house. Say, some hollow tree; and then for morning calls and
dinner-parties! Only a woodpecker tapping. Oh, they swarm; the sun is
too warm there; they are born too far into life for me. I have water
from the spring, and a loaf of brown bread on the shelf.--Hark! I hear a
rustling of the leaves. Is it some ill-fed village hound yielding to
the instinct of the chase? or the lost pig which is said to be in these
woods, whose tracks I saw after the rain? It comes on apace; my sumachs
and sweetbriers tremble.--Eh, Mr. Poet, is it you? How do you like the
world to-day?

_Poet._ See those clouds; how they hang! That's the greatest thing I have
seen to-day. There's nothing like it in old paintings, nothing like it
in foreign lands--unless when we were off the coast of Spain. That's a
true Mediterranean sky. I thought, as I have my living to get, and have
not eaten to-day, that I might go a-fishing. That's the true industry
for poets. It is the only trade I have learned. Come, let's along.

_Hermit._ I cannot resist. My brown bread will soon be gone. I will go
with you gladly soon, but I am just concluding a serious meditation. I
think that I am near the end of it. Leave me alone, then, for a while.
But that we may not be delayed, you shall be digging the bait meanwhile.
Angleworms are rarely to be met with in these parts, where the soil was
never fattened with manure; the race is nearly extinct. The sport of
digging the bait is nearly equal to that of catching the fish, when
one's appetite is not too keen; and this you may have all to yourself
today. I would advise you to set in the spade down yonder among the
ground-nuts, where you see the johnswort waving. I think that I may
warrant you one worm to every three sods you turn up, if you look well
in among the roots of the grass, as if you were weeding. Or, if you
choose to go farther, it will not be unwise, for I have found the
increase of fair bait to be very nearly as the squares of the distances.

_Hermit alone._ Let me see; where was I? Methinks I was nearly in this
frame of mind; the world lay about at this angle. Shall I go to heaven
or a-fishing? If I should soon bring this meditation to an end, would
another so sweet occasion be likely to offer? I was as near being
resolved into the essence of things as ever I was in my life. I fear
my thoughts will not come back to me. If it would do any good, I would
whistle for them. When they make us an offer, is it wise to say, We will
think of it? My thoughts have left no track, and I cannot find the path
again. What was it that I was thinking of? It was a very hazy day. I
will just try these three sentences of Confut-see; they may fetch that
state about again. I know not whether it was the dumps or a budding
ecstasy. Mem. There never is but one opportunity of a kind.

_Poet._ How now, Hermit, is it too soon? I have got just thirteen whole
ones, beside several which are imperfect or undersized; but they will
do for the smaller fry; they do not cover up the hook so much. Those
village worms are quite too large; a shiner may make a meal off one
without finding the skewer.

_Hermit._ Well, then, let's be off. Shall we to the Concord? There's good
sport there if the water be not too high.

       *       *       *       *       *

Why do precisely these objects which we behold make a world? Why has
man just these species of animals for his neighbors; as if nothing but
a mouse could have filled this crevice? I suspect that Pilpay & Co. have
put animals to their best use, for they are all beasts of burden, in a
sense, made to carry some portion of our thoughts.

The mice which haunted my house were not the common ones, which are said
to have been introduced into the country, but a wild native kind not
found in the village. I sent one to a distinguished naturalist, and
it interested him much. When I was building, one of these had its nest
underneath the house, and before I had laid the second floor, and swept
out the shavings, would come out regularly at lunch time and pick up the
crumbs at my feet. It probably had never seen a man before; and it soon
became quite familiar, and would run over my shoes and up my clothes.
It could readily ascend the sides of the room by short impulses, like a
squirrel, which it resembled in its motions. At length, as I leaned
with my elbow on the bench one day, it ran up my clothes, and along my
sleeve, and round and round the paper which held my dinner, while I kept
the latter close, and dodged and played at bopeep with it; and when at
last I held still a piece of cheese between my thumb and finger, it came
and nibbled it, sitting in my hand, and afterward cleaned its face and
paws, like a fly, and walked away.

A phœbe soon built in my shed, and a robin for protection in a pine
which grew against the house. In June the partridge (_Tetrao umbellus_),
which is so shy a bird, led her brood past my windows, from the woods in
the rear to the front of my house, clucking and calling to them like a
hen, and in all her behavior proving herself the hen of the woods. The
young suddenly disperse on your approach, at a signal from the mother,
as if a whirlwind had swept them away, and they so exactly resemble the
dried leaves and twigs that many a traveler has placed his foot in the
midst of a brood, and heard the whir of the old bird as she flew off,
and her anxious calls and mewing, or seen her trail her wings to attract
his attention, without suspecting their neighborhood. The parent will
sometimes roll and spin round before you in such a dishabille, that you
cannot, for a few moments, detect what kind of creature it is. The young
squat still and flat, often running their heads under a leaf, and mind
only their mother's directions given from a distance, nor will your
approach make them run again and betray themselves. You may even tread
on them, or have your eyes on them for a minute, without discovering
them. I have held them in my open hand at such a time, and still their
only care, obedient to their mother and their instinct, was to squat
there without fear or trembling. So perfect is this instinct, that once,
when I had laid them on the leaves again, and one accidentally fell on
its side, it was found with the rest in exactly the same position ten
minutes afterward. They are not callow like the young of most birds,
but more perfectly developed and precocious even than chickens. The
remarkably adult yet innocent expression of their open and serene
eyes is very memorable. All intelligence seems reflected in them. They
suggest not merely the purity of infancy, but a wisdom clarified by
experience. Such an eye was not born when the bird was, but is coeval
with the sky it reflects. The woods do not yield another such a gem. The
traveller does not often look into such a limpid well. The ignorant or
reckless sportsman often shoots the parent at such a time, and leaves
these innocents to fall a prey to some prowling beast or bird, or
gradually mingle with the decaying leaves which they so much resemble.
It is said that when hatched by a hen they will directly disperse on
some alarm, and so are lost, for they never hear the mother's call which
gathers them again. These were my hens and chickens.

It is remarkable how many creatures live wild and free though secret in
the woods, and still sustain themselves in the neighborhood of towns,
suspected by hunters only. How retired the otter manages to live here!
He grows to be four feet long, as big as a small boy, perhaps without
any human being getting a glimpse of him. I formerly saw the raccoon in
the woods behind where my house is built, and probably still heard their
whinnering at night. Commonly I rested an hour or two in the shade at
noon, after planting, and ate my lunch, and read a little by a spring
which was the source of a swamp and of a brook, oozing from under
Brister's Hill, half a mile from my field. The approach to this was
through a succession of descending grassy hollows, full of young pitch
pines, into a larger wood about the swamp. There, in a very secluded and
shaded spot, under a spreading white pine, there was yet a clean, firm
sward to sit on. I had dug out the spring and made a well of clear gray
water, where I could dip up a pailful without roiling it, and thither I
went for this purpose almost every day in midsummer, when the pond was
warmest. Thither, too, the woodcock led her brood, to probe the mud for
worms, flying but a foot above them down the bank, while they ran in
a troop beneath; but at last, spying me, she would leave her young and
circle round and round me, nearer and nearer till within four or five
feet, pretending broken wings and legs, to attract my attention, and get
off her young, who would already have taken up their march, with faint,
wiry peep, single file through the swamp, as she directed. Or I heard
the peep of the young when I could not see the parent bird. There too
the turtle doves sat over the spring, or fluttered from bough to bough
of the soft white pines over my head; or the red squirrel, coursing down
the nearest bough, was particularly familiar and inquisitive. You only
need sit still long enough in some attractive spot in the woods that all
its inhabitants may exhibit themselves to you by turns.

I was witness to events of a less peaceful character. One day when I
went out to my wood-pile, or rather my pile of stumps, I observed two
large ants, the one red, the other much larger, nearly half an inch
long, and black, fiercely contending with one another. Having once got
hold they never let go, but struggled and wrestled and rolled on the
chips incessantly. Looking farther, I was surprised to find that the
chips were covered with such combatants, that it was not a _duellum_, but
a _bellum_, a war between two races of ants, the red always pitted against
the black, and frequently two red ones to one black. The legions of
these Myrmidons covered all the hills and vales in my wood-yard, and the
ground was already strewn with the dead and dying, both red and
black. It was the only battle which I have ever witnessed, the only
battle-field I ever trod while the battle was raging; internecine war;
the red republicans on the one hand, and the black imperialists on the
other. On every side they were engaged in deadly combat, yet without any
noise that I could hear, and human soldiers never fought so resolutely.
I watched a couple that were fast locked in each other's embraces, in
a little sunny valley amid the chips, now at noonday prepared to fight
till the sun went down, or life went out. The smaller red champion had
fastened himself like a vice to his adversary's front, and through all
the tumblings on that field never for an instant ceased to gnaw at one
of his feelers near the root, having already caused the other to go by
the board; while the stronger black one dashed him from side to side,
and, as I saw on looking nearer, had already divested him of several of
his members. They fought with more pertinacity than bulldogs. Neither
manifested the least disposition to retreat. It was evident that their
battle-cry was "Conquer or die." In the meanwhile there came along
a single red ant on the hillside of this valley, evidently full of
excitement, who either had despatched his foe, or had not yet taken part
in the battle; probably the latter, for he had lost none of his limbs;
whose mother had charged him to return with his shield or upon it. Or
perchance he was some Achilles, who had nourished his wrath apart, and
had now come to avenge or rescue his Patroclus. He saw this unequal
combat from afar--for the blacks were nearly twice the size of the
red--he drew near with rapid pace till he stood on his guard within half
an inch of the combatants; then, watching his opportunity, he sprang
upon the black warrior, and commenced his operations near the root of
his right fore leg, leaving the foe to select among his own members; and
so there were three united for life, as if a new kind of attraction had
been invented which put all other locks and cements to shame. I should
not have wondered by this time to find that they had their respective
musical bands stationed on some eminent chip, and playing their national
airs the while, to excite the slow and cheer the dying combatants. I was
myself excited somewhat even as if they had been men. The more you think
of it, the less the difference. And certainly there is not the fight
recorded in Concord history, at least, if in the history of America,
that will bear a moment's comparison with this, whether for the numbers
engaged in it, or for the patriotism and heroism displayed. For numbers
and for carnage it was an Austerlitz or Dresden. Concord Fight! Two
killed on the patriots' side, and Luther Blanchard wounded! Why here
every ant was a Buttrick--"Fire! for God's sake fire!"--and thousands
shared the fate of Davis and Hosmer. There was not one hireling there.
I have no doubt that it was a principle they fought for, as much as
our ancestors, and not to avoid a three-penny tax on their tea; and the
results of this battle will be as important and memorable to those whom
it concerns as those of the battle of Bunker Hill, at least.

I took up the chip on which the three I have particularly described were
struggling, carried it into my house, and placed it under a tumbler on
my window-sill, in order to see the issue. Holding a microscope to the
first-mentioned red ant, I saw that, though he was assiduously gnawing
at the near fore leg of his enemy, having severed his remaining feeler,
his own breast was all torn away, exposing what vitals he had there
to the jaws of the black warrior, whose breastplate was apparently too
thick for him to pierce; and the dark carbuncles of the sufferer's eyes
shone with ferocity such as war only could excite. They struggled half
an hour longer under the tumbler, and when I looked again the black
soldier had severed the heads of his foes from their bodies, and the
still living heads were hanging on either side of him like ghastly
trophies at his saddle-bow, still apparently as firmly fastened as ever,
and he was endeavoring with feeble struggles, being without feelers and
with only the remnant of a leg, and I know not how many other wounds,
to divest himself of them; which at length, after half an hour more, he
accomplished. I raised the glass, and he went off over the window-sill
in that crippled state. Whether he finally survived that combat, and
spent the remainder of his days in some Hotel des Invalides, I do
not know; but I thought that his industry would not be worth much
thereafter. I never learned which party was victorious, nor the cause of
the war; but I felt for the rest of that day as if I had had my feelings
excited and harrowed by witnessing the struggle, the ferocity and
carnage, of a human battle before my door.

Kirby and Spence tell us that the battles of ants have long been
celebrated and the date of them recorded, though they say that Huber
is the only modern author who appears to have witnessed them. "Æneas
Sylvius," say they, "after giving a very circumstantial account of one
contested with great obstinacy by a great and small species on the trunk
of a pear tree," adds that "this action was fought in the pontificate
of Eugenius the Fourth, in the presence of Nicholas Pistoriensis, an
eminent lawyer, who related the whole history of the battle with the
greatest fidelity." A similar engagement between great and small ants is
recorded by Olaus Magnus, in which the small ones, being victorious, are
said to have buried the bodies of their own soldiers, but left those of
their giant enemies a prey to the birds. This event happened previous
to the expulsion of the tyrant Christiern the Second from Sweden. The
battle which I witnessed took place in the Presidency of Polk, five
years before the passage of Webster's Fugitive-Slave Bill.

Many a village Bose, fit only to course a mud-turtle in a victualling
cellar, sported his heavy quarters in the woods, without the knowledge
of his master, and ineffectually smelled at old fox burrows and
woodchucks' holes; led perchance by some slight cur which nimbly
threaded the wood, and might still inspire a natural terror in its
denizens;--now far behind his guide, barking like a canine bull toward
some small squirrel which had treed itself for scrutiny, then, cantering
off, bending the bushes with his weight, imagining that he is on the
track of some stray member of the jerbilla family. Once I was surprised
to see a cat walking along the stony shore of the pond, for they rarely
wander so far from home. The surprise was mutual. Nevertheless the most
domestic cat, which has lain on a rug all her days, appears quite at
home in the woods, and, by her sly and stealthy behavior, proves herself
more native there than the regular inhabitants. Once, when berrying,
I met with a cat with young kittens in the woods, quite wild, and they
all, like their mother, had their backs up and were fiercely spitting at
me. A few years before I lived in the woods there was what was called a
"winged cat" in one of the farm-houses in Lincoln nearest the pond, Mr.
Gilian Baker's. When I called to see her in June, 1842, she was gone
a-hunting in the woods, as was her wont (I am not sure whether it was
a male or female, and so use the more common pronoun), but her mistress
told me that she came into the neighborhood a little more than a year
before, in April, and was finally taken into their house; that she was
of a dark brownish-gray color, with a white spot on her throat, and
white feet, and had a large bushy tail like a fox; that in the winter
the fur grew thick and flatted out along her sides, forming stripes ten
or twelve inches long by two and a half wide, and under her chin like
a muff, the upper side loose, the under matted like felt, and in the
spring these appendages dropped off. They gave me a pair of her "wings,"
which I keep still. There is no appearance of a membrane about them.
Some thought it was part flying squirrel or some other wild animal,
which is not impossible, for, according to naturalists, prolific hybrids
have been produced by the union of the marten and domestic cat. This
would have been the right kind of cat for me to keep, if I had kept any;
for why should not a poet's cat be winged as well as his horse?

In the fall the loon (_Colymbus glacialis_) came, as usual, to moult and
bathe in the pond, making the woods ring with his wild laughter before I
had risen. At rumor of his arrival all the Mill-dam sportsmen are on the
alert, in gigs and on foot, two by two and three by three, with patent
rifles and conical balls and spy-glasses. They come rustling through
the woods like autumn leaves, at least ten men to one loon. Some station
themselves on this side of the pond, some on that, for the poor bird
cannot be omnipresent; if he dive here he must come up there. But
now the kind October wind rises, rustling the leaves and rippling the
surface of the water, so that no loon can be heard or seen, though his
foes sweep the pond with spy-glasses, and make the woods resound with
their discharges. The waves generously rise and dash angrily, taking
sides with all water-fowl, and our sportsmen must beat a retreat to town
and shop and unfinished jobs. But they were too often successful. When
I went to get a pail of water early in the morning I frequently saw this
stately bird sailing out of my cove within a few rods. If I endeavored
to overtake him in a boat, in order to see how he would manoeuvre, he
would dive and be completely lost, so that I did not discover him again,
sometimes, till the latter part of the day. But I was more than a match
for him on the surface. He commonly went off in a rain.

As I was paddling along the north shore one very calm October afternoon,
for such days especially they settle on to the lakes, like the milkweed
down, having looked in vain over the pond for a loon, suddenly one,
sailing out from the shore toward the middle a few rods in front of me,
set up his wild laugh and betrayed himself. I pursued with a paddle and
he dived, but when he came up I was nearer than before. He dived again,
but I miscalculated the direction he would take, and we were fifty rods
apart when he came to the surface this time, for I had helped to widen
the interval; and again he laughed long and loud, and with more reason
than before. He manoeuvred so cunningly that I could not get within half
a dozen rods of him. Each time, when he came to the surface, turning his
head this way and that, he cooly surveyed the water and the land, and
apparently chose his course so that he might come up where there was the
widest expanse of water and at the greatest distance from the boat. It
was surprising how quickly he made up his mind and put his resolve into
execution. He led me at once to the widest part of the pond, and could
not be driven from it. While he was thinking one thing in his brain,
I was endeavoring to divine his thought in mine. It was a pretty game,
played on the smooth surface of the pond, a man against a loon. Suddenly
your adversary's checker disappears beneath the board, and the problem
is to place yours nearest to where his will appear again. Sometimes he
would come up unexpectedly on the opposite side of me, having
apparently passed directly under the boat. So long-winded was he and so
unweariable, that when he had swum farthest he would immediately plunge
again, nevertheless; and then no wit could divine where in the deep
pond, beneath the smooth surface, he might be speeding his way like a
fish, for he had time and ability to visit the bottom of the pond in
its deepest part. It is said that loons have been caught in the New York
lakes eighty feet beneath the surface, with hooks set for trout--though
Walden is deeper than that. How surprised must the fishes be to see
this ungainly visitor from another sphere speeding his way amid their
schools! Yet he appeared to know his course as surely under water as on
the surface, and swam much faster there. Once or twice I saw a ripple
where he approached the surface, just put his head out to reconnoitre,
and instantly dived again. I found that it was as well for me to rest
on my oars and wait his reappearing as to endeavor to calculate where he
would rise; for again and again, when I was straining my eyes over the
surface one way, I would suddenly be startled by his unearthly laugh
behind me. But why, after displaying so much cunning, did he invariably
betray himself the moment he came up by that loud laugh? Did not his
white breast enough betray him? He was indeed a silly loon, I thought. I
could commonly hear the splash of the water when he came up, and so also
detected him. But after an hour he seemed as fresh as ever, dived as
willingly, and swam yet farther than at first. It was surprising to see
how serenely he sailed off with unruffled breast when he came to the
surface, doing all the work with his webbed feet beneath. His usual note
was this demoniac laughter, yet somewhat like that of a water-fowl; but
occasionally, when he had balked me most successfully and come up a long
way off, he uttered a long-drawn unearthly howl, probably more like that
of a wolf than any bird; as when a beast puts his muzzle to the ground
and deliberately howls. This was his looning--perhaps the wildest sound
that is ever heard here, making the woods ring far and wide. I concluded
that he laughed in derision of my efforts, confident of his own
resources. Though the sky was by this time overcast, the pond was so
smooth that I could see where he broke the surface when I did not hear
him. His white breast, the stillness of the air, and the smoothness of
the water were all against him. At length having come up fifty rods off,
he uttered one of those prolonged howls, as if calling on the god of
loons to aid him, and immediately there came a wind from the east and
rippled the surface, and filled the whole air with misty rain, and I was
impressed as if it were the prayer of the loon answered, and his god was
angry with me; and so I left him disappearing far away on the tumultuous
surface.

For hours, in fall days, I watched the ducks cunningly tack and veer and
hold the middle of the pond, far from the sportsman; tricks which they
will have less need to practise in Louisiana bayous. When compelled to
rise they would sometimes circle round and round and over the pond at a
considerable height, from which they could easily see to other ponds
and the river, like black motes in the sky; and, when I thought they had
gone off thither long since, they would settle down by a slanting flight
of a quarter of a mile on to a distant part which was left free; but
what beside safety they got by sailing in the middle of Walden I do not
know, unless they love its water for the same reason that I do.




House-Warming


In October I went a-graping to the river meadows, and loaded myself with
clusters more precious for their beauty and fragrance than for food.
There, too, I admired, though I did not gather, the cranberries, small
waxen gems, pendants of the meadow grass, pearly and red, which the
farmer plucks with an ugly rake, leaving the smooth meadow in a snarl,
heedlessly measuring them by the bushel and the dollar only, and sells
the spoils of the meads to Boston and New York; destined to be _jammed_,
to satisfy the tastes of lovers of Nature there. So butchers rake the
tongues of bison out of the prairie grass, regardless of the torn and
drooping plant. The barberry's brilliant fruit was likewise food for my
eyes merely; but I collected a small store of wild apples for coddling,
which the proprietor and travellers had overlooked. When chestnuts were
ripe I laid up half a bushel for winter. It was very exciting at that
season to roam the then boundless chestnut woods of Lincoln--they now
sleep their long sleep under the railroad--with a bag on my shoulder,
and a stick to open burs with in my hand, for I did not always wait for
the frost, amid the rustling of leaves and the loud reproofs of the red
squirrels and the jays, whose half-consumed nuts I sometimes stole,
for the burs which they had selected were sure to contain sound ones.
Occasionally I climbed and shook the trees. They grew also behind my
house, and one large tree, which almost overshadowed it, was, when
in flower, a bouquet which scented the whole neighborhood, but the
squirrels and the jays got most of its fruit; the last coming in flocks
early in the morning and picking the nuts out of the burs before they
fell, I relinquished these trees to them and visited the more distant
woods composed wholly of chestnut. These nuts, as far as they went, were
a good substitute for bread. Many other substitutes might, perhaps, be
found. Digging one day for fishworms, I discovered the ground-nut
(_Apios tuberosa_) on its string, the potato of the aborigines, a sort of
fabulous fruit, which I had begun to doubt if I had ever dug and eaten
in childhood, as I had told, and had not dreamed it. I had often since
seen its crumpled red velvety blossom supported by the stems of other
plants without knowing it to be the same. Cultivation has well-nigh
exterminated it. It has a sweetish taste, much like that of a
frost-bitten potato, and I found it better boiled than roasted. This
tuber seemed like a faint promise of Nature to rear her own children
and feed them simply here at some future period. In these days of fatted
cattle and waving grain-fields this humble root, which was once the
_totem_ of an Indian tribe, is quite forgotten, or known only by its
flowering vine; but let wild Nature reign here once more, and the tender
and luxurious English grains will probably disappear before a myriad of
foes, and without the care of man the crow may carry back even the
last seed of corn to the great cornfield of the Indian's God in the
southwest, whence he is said to have brought it; but the now almost
exterminated ground-nut will perhaps revive and flourish in spite of
frosts and wildness, prove itself indigenous, and resume its ancient
importance and dignity as the diet of the hunter tribe. Some Indian
Ceres or Minerva must have been the inventor and bestower of it; and
when the reign of poetry commences here, its leaves and string of nuts
may be represented on our works of art.

Already, by the first of September, I had seen two or three small maples
turned scarlet across the pond, beneath where the white stems of three
aspens diverged, at the point of a promontory, next the water. Ah, many
a tale their color told! And gradually from week to week the character
of each tree came out, and it admired itself reflected in the smooth
mirror of the lake. Each morning the manager of this gallery substituted
some new picture, distinguished by more brilliant or harmonious
coloring, for the old upon the walls.

The wasps came by thousands to my lodge in October, as to winter
quarters, and settled on my windows within and on the walls overhead,
sometimes deterring visitors from entering. Each morning, when they were
numbed with cold, I swept some of them out, but I did not trouble myself
much to get rid of them; I even felt complimented by their regarding my
house as a desirable shelter. They never molested me seriously, though
they bedded with me; and they gradually disappeared, into what crevices
I do not know, avoiding winter and unspeakable cold.

Like the wasps, before I finally went into winter quarters in November,
I used to resort to the northeast side of Walden, which the sun,
reflected from the pitch pine woods and the stony shore, made the
fireside of the pond; it is so much pleasanter and wholesomer to be
warmed by the sun while you can be, than by an artificial fire. I thus
warmed myself by the still glowing embers which the summer, like a
departed hunter, had left.

       *       *       *       *       *

When I came to build my chimney I studied masonry. My bricks, being
second-hand ones, required to be cleaned with a trowel, so that I
learned more than usual of the qualities of bricks and trowels. The
mortar on them was fifty years old, and was said to be still growing
harder; but this is one of those sayings which men love to repeat
whether they are true or not. Such sayings themselves grow harder and
adhere more firmly with age, and it would take many blows with a trowel
to clean an old wiseacre of them. Many of the villages of Mesopotamia
are built of second-hand bricks of a very good quality, obtained from
the ruins of Babylon, and the cement on them is older and probably
harder still. However that may be, I was struck by the peculiar
toughness of the steel which bore so many violent blows without being
worn out. As my bricks had been in a chimney before, though I did not
read the name of Nebuchadnezzar on them, I picked out as many fireplace
bricks as I could find, to save work and waste, and I filled the spaces
between the bricks about the fireplace with stones from the pond shore,
and also made my mortar with the white sand from the same place. I
lingered most about the fireplace, as the most vital part of the house.
Indeed, I worked so deliberately, that though I commenced at the ground
in the morning, a course of bricks raised a few inches above the floor
served for my pillow at night; yet I did not get a stiff neck for it
that I remember; my stiff neck is of older date. I took a poet to board
for a fortnight about those times, which caused me to be put to it for
room. He brought his own knife, though I had two, and we used to scour
them by thrusting them into the earth. He shared with me the labors
of cooking. I was pleased to see my work rising so square and solid by
degrees, and reflected, that, if it proceeded slowly, it was calculated
to endure a long time. The chimney is to some extent an independent
structure, standing on the ground, and rising through the house to the
heavens; even after the house is burned it still stands sometimes, and
its importance and independence are apparent. This was toward the end of
summer. It was now November.

       *       *       *       *       *

The north wind had already begun to cool the pond, though it took many
weeks of steady blowing to accomplish it, it is so deep. When I began to
have a fire at evening, before I plastered my house, the chimney carried
smoke particularly well, because of the numerous chinks between the
boards. Yet I passed some cheerful evenings in that cool and airy
apartment, surrounded by the rough brown boards full of knots, and
rafters with the bark on high overhead. My house never pleased my eye so
much after it was plastered, though I was obliged to confess that it
was more comfortable. Should not every apartment in which man dwells be
lofty enough to create some obscurity overhead, where flickering shadows
may play at evening about the rafters? These forms are more agreeable
to the fancy and imagination than fresco paintings or other the most
expensive furniture. I now first began to inhabit my house, I may say,
when I began to use it for warmth as well as shelter. I had got a couple
of old fire-dogs to keep the wood from the hearth, and it did me good
to see the soot form on the back of the chimney which I had built, and
I poked the fire with more right and more satisfaction than usual. My
dwelling was small, and I could hardly entertain an echo in it; but it
seemed larger for being a single apartment and remote from neighbors.
All the attractions of a house were concentrated in one room; it was
kitchen, chamber, parlor, and keeping-room; and whatever satisfaction
parent or child, master or servant, derive from living in a house, I
enjoyed it all. Cato says, the master of a family (_patremfamilias_) must
have in his rustic villa "cellam oleariam, vinariam, dolia multa, uti
lubeat caritatem expectare, et rei, et virtuti, et gloriae erit," that
is, "an oil and wine cellar, many casks, so that it may be pleasant to
expect hard times; it will be for his advantage, and virtue, and glory."
I had in my cellar a firkin of potatoes, about two quarts of peas with
the weevil in them, and on my shelf a little rice, a jug of molasses,
and of rye and Indian meal a peck each.

I sometimes dream of a larger and more populous house, standing in a
golden age, of enduring materials, and without gingerbread work,
which shall still consist of only one room, a vast, rude, substantial,
primitive hall, without ceiling or plastering, with bare rafters and
purlins supporting a sort of lower heaven over one's head--useful to
keep off rain and snow, where the king and queen posts stand out to
receive your homage, when you have done reverence to the prostrate
Saturn of an older dynasty on stepping over the sill; a cavernous house,
wherein you must reach up a torch upon a pole to see the roof; where
some may live in the fireplace, some in the recess of a window, and some
on settles, some at one end of the hall, some at another, and some aloft
on rafters with the spiders, if they choose; a house which you have got
into when you have opened the outside door, and the ceremony is over;
where the weary traveller may wash, and eat, and converse, and sleep,
without further journey; such a shelter as you would be glad to reach
in a tempestuous night, containing all the essentials of a house, and
nothing for house-keeping; where you can see all the treasures of the
house at one view, and everything hangs upon its peg, that a man should
use; at once kitchen, pantry, parlor, chamber, storehouse, and garret;
where you can see so necessary a thing, as a barrel or a ladder, so
convenient a thing as a cupboard, and hear the pot boil, and pay your
respects to the fire that cooks your dinner, and the oven that bakes
your bread, and the necessary furniture and utensils are the chief
ornaments; where the washing is not put out, nor the fire, nor the
mistress, and perhaps you are sometimes requested to move from off the
trap-door, when the cook would descend into the cellar, and so learn
whether the ground is solid or hollow beneath you without stamping. A
house whose inside is as open and manifest as a bird's nest, and you
cannot go in at the front door and out at the back without seeing some
of its inhabitants; where to be a guest is to be presented with the
freedom of the house, and not to be carefully excluded from seven
eighths of it, shut up in a particular cell, and told to make yourself
at home there--in solitary confinement. Nowadays the host does not
admit you to _his_ hearth, but has got the mason to build one for yourself
somewhere in his alley, and hospitality is the art of _keeping_ you at the
greatest distance. There is as much secrecy about the cooking as if he
had a design to poison you. I am aware that I have been on many a man's
premises, and might have been legally ordered off, but I am not aware
that I have been in many men's houses. I might visit in my old clothes a
king and queen who lived simply in such a house as I have described, if
I were going their way; but backing out of a modern palace will be all
that I shall desire to learn, if ever I am caught in one.

It would seem as if the very language of our parlors would lose all
its nerve and degenerate into _palaver_ wholly, our lives pass at
such remoteness from its symbols, and its metaphors and tropes are
necessarily so far fetched, through slides and dumb-waiters, as it were;
in other words, the parlor is so far from the kitchen and workshop. The
dinner even is only the parable of a dinner, commonly. As if only the
savage dwelt near enough to Nature and Truth to borrow a trope from
them. How can the scholar, who dwells away in the North West Territory
or the Isle of Man, tell what is parliamentary in the kitchen?

However, only one or two of my guests were ever bold enough to stay and
eat a hasty-pudding with me; but when they saw that crisis approaching
they beat a hasty retreat rather, as if it would shake the house to its
foundations. Nevertheless, it stood through a great many hasty-puddings.

I did not plaster till it was freezing weather. I brought over some
whiter and cleaner sand for this purpose from the opposite shore of the
pond in a boat, a sort of conveyance which would have tempted me to go
much farther if necessary. My house had in the meanwhile been shingled
down to the ground on every side. In lathing I was pleased to be able
to send home each nail with a single blow of the hammer, and it was my
ambition to transfer the plaster from the board to the wall neatly and
rapidly. I remembered the story of a conceited fellow, who, in fine
clothes, was wont to lounge about the village once, giving advice to
workmen. Venturing one day to substitute deeds for words, he turned
up his cuffs, seized a plasterer's board, and having loaded his trowel
without mishap, with a complacent look toward the lathing overhead,
made a bold gesture thitherward; and straightway, to his complete
discomfiture, received the whole contents in his ruffled bosom. I
admired anew the economy and convenience of plastering, which so
effectually shuts out the cold and takes a handsome finish, and I
learned the various casualties to which the plasterer is liable. I was
surprised to see how thirsty the bricks were which drank up all the
moisture in my plaster before I had smoothed it, and how many pailfuls
of water it takes to christen a new hearth. I had the previous winter
made a small quantity of lime by burning the shells of the _Unio
fluviatilis_, which our river affords, for the sake of the experiment;
so that I knew where my materials came from. I might have got good
limestone within a mile or two and burned it myself, if I had cared to
do so.

       *       *       *       *       *

The pond had in the meanwhile skimmed over in the shadiest and
shallowest coves, some days or even weeks before the general freezing.
The first ice is especially interesting and perfect, being hard, dark,
and transparent, and affords the best opportunity that ever offers for
examining the bottom where it is shallow; for you can lie at your length
on ice only an inch thick, like a skater insect on the surface of the
water, and study the bottom at your leisure, only two or three inches
distant, like a picture behind a glass, and the water is necessarily
always smooth then. There are many furrows in the sand where some
creature has travelled about and doubled on its tracks; and, for wrecks,
it is strewn with the cases of caddis-worms made of minute grains of
white quartz. Perhaps these have creased it, for you find some of their
cases in the furrows, though they are deep and broad for them to make.
But the ice itself is the object of most interest, though you must
improve the earliest opportunity to study it. If you examine it closely
the morning after it freezes, you find that the greater part of the
bubbles, which at first appeared to be within it, are against its under
surface, and that more are continually rising from the bottom; while the
ice is as yet comparatively solid and dark, that is, you see the water
through it. These bubbles are from an eightieth to an eighth of an inch
in diameter, very clear and beautiful, and you see your face reflected
in them through the ice. There may be thirty or forty of them to
a square inch. There are also already within the ice narrow oblong
perpendicular bubbles about half an inch long, sharp cones with the apex
upward; or oftener, if the ice is quite fresh, minute spherical bubbles
one directly above another, like a string of beads. But these within the
ice are not so numerous nor obvious as those beneath. I sometimes used
to cast on stones to try the strength of the ice, and those which
broke through carried in air with them, which formed very large and
conspicuous white bubbles beneath. One day when I came to the same place
forty-eight hours afterward, I found that those large bubbles were
still perfect, though an inch more of ice had formed, as I could see
distinctly by the seam in the edge of a cake. But as the last two
days had been very warm, like an Indian summer, the ice was not now
transparent, showing the dark green color of the water, and the bottom,
but opaque and whitish or gray, and though twice as thick was hardly
stronger than before, for the air bubbles had greatly expanded under
this heat and run together, and lost their regularity; they were no
longer one directly over another, but often like silvery coins poured
from a bag, one overlapping another, or in thin flakes, as if occupying
slight cleavages. The beauty of the ice was gone, and it was too late to
study the bottom. Being curious to know what position my great bubbles
occupied with regard to the new ice, I broke out a cake containing a
middling sized one, and turned it bottom upward. The new ice had formed
around and under the bubble, so that it was included between the two
ices. It was wholly in the lower ice, but close against the upper, and
was flattish, or perhaps slightly lenticular, with a rounded edge, a
quarter of an inch deep by four inches in diameter; and I was surprised
to find that directly under the bubble the ice was melted with great
regularity in the form of a saucer reversed, to the height of five
eighths of an inch in the middle, leaving a thin partition there between
the water and the bubble, hardly an eighth of an inch thick; and in many
places the small bubbles in this partition had burst out downward, and
probably there was no ice at all under the largest bubbles, which were a
foot in diameter. I inferred that the infinite number of minute bubbles
which I had first seen against the under surface of the ice were now
frozen in likewise, and that each, in its degree, had operated like
a burning-glass on the ice beneath to melt and rot it. These are the
little air-guns which contribute to make the ice crack and whoop.

       *       *       *       *       *

At length the winter set in good earnest, just as I had finished
plastering, and the wind began to howl around the house as if it had
not had permission to do so till then. Night after night the geese came
lumbering in the dark with a clangor and a whistling of wings, even
after the ground was covered with snow, some to alight in Walden, and
some flying low over the woods toward Fair Haven, bound for Mexico.
Several times, when returning from the village at ten or eleven o'clock
at night, I heard the tread of a flock of geese, or else ducks, on the
dry leaves in the woods by a pond-hole behind my dwelling, where they
had come up to feed, and the faint honk or quack of their leader as they
hurried off. In 1845 Walden froze entirely over for the first time on
the night of the 22d of December, Flint's and other shallower ponds and
the river having been frozen ten days or more; in '46, the 16th; in '49,
about the 31st; and in '50, about the 27th of December; in '52, the 5th
of January; in '53, the 31st of December. The snow had already covered
the ground since the 25th of November, and surrounded me suddenly
with the scenery of winter. I withdrew yet farther into my shell, and
endeavored to keep a bright fire both within my house and within my
breast. My employment out of doors now was to collect the dead wood in
the forest, bringing it in my hands or on my shoulders, or sometimes
trailing a dead pine tree under each arm to my shed. An old forest fence
which had seen its best days was a great haul for me. I sacrificed it
to Vulcan, for it was past serving the god Terminus. How much more
interesting an event is that man's supper who has just been forth in the
snow to hunt, nay, you might say, steal, the fuel to cook it with! His
bread and meat are sweet. There are enough fagots and waste wood of all
kinds in the forests of most of our towns to support many fires, but
which at present warm none, and, some think, hinder the growth of the
young wood. There was also the driftwood of the pond. In the course of
the summer I had discovered a raft of pitch pine logs with the bark on,
pinned together by the Irish when the railroad was built. This I hauled
up partly on the shore. After soaking two years and then lying high six
months it was perfectly sound, though waterlogged past drying. I amused
myself one winter day with sliding this piecemeal across the pond,
nearly half a mile, skating behind with one end of a log fifteen feet
long on my shoulder, and the other on the ice; or I tied several logs
together with a birch withe, and then, with a longer birch or alder
which had a hook at the end, dragged them across. Though completely
waterlogged and almost as heavy as lead, they not only burned long, but
made a very hot fire; nay, I thought that they burned better for the
soaking, as if the pitch, being confined by the water, burned longer, as
in a lamp.

Gilpin, in his account of the forest borderers of England, says that
"the encroachments of trespassers, and the houses and fences thus raised
on the borders of the forest," were "considered as great nuisances
by the old forest law, and were severely punished under the name of
_purprestures_, as tending _ad terrorem ferarum--ad nocumentum forestae_,
etc.," to the frightening of the game and the detriment of the forest.
But I was interested in the preservation of the venison and the vert
more than the hunters or woodchoppers, and as much as though I had been
the Lord Warden himself; and if any part was burned, though I burned it
myself by accident, I grieved with a grief that lasted longer and was
more inconsolable than that of the proprietors; nay, I grieved when it
was cut down by the proprietors themselves. I would that our farmers
when they cut down a forest felt some of that awe which the old Romans
did when they came to thin, or let in the light to, a consecrated grove
(_lucum conlucare_), that is, would believe that it is sacred to some
god. The Roman made an expiatory offering, and prayed, Whatever god or
goddess thou art to whom this grove is sacred, be propitious to me, my
family, and children, etc.

It is remarkable what a value is still put upon wood even in this age
and in this new country, a value more permanent and universal than that
of gold. After all our discoveries and inventions no man will go by a
pile of wood. It is as precious to us as it was to our Saxon and Norman
ancestors. If they made their bows of it, we make our gun-stocks of it.
Michaux, more than thirty years ago, says that the price of wood for
fuel in New York and Philadelphia "nearly equals, and sometimes exceeds,
that of the best wood in Paris, though this immense capital annually
requires more than three hundred thousand cords, and is surrounded to
the distance of three hundred miles by cultivated plains." In this town
the price of wood rises almost steadily, and the only question is, how
much higher it is to be this year than it was the last. Mechanics and
tradesmen who come in person to the forest on no other errand, are sure
to attend the wood auction, and even pay a high price for the privilege
of gleaning after the woodchopper. It is now many years that men have
resorted to the forest for fuel and the materials of the arts: the New
Englander and the New Hollander, the Parisian and the Celt, the farmer
and Robin Hood, Goody Blake and Harry Gill; in most parts of the world
the prince and the peasant, the scholar and the savage, equally require
still a few sticks from the forest to warm them and cook their food.
Neither could I do without them.

Every man looks at his wood-pile with a kind of affection. I love to
have mine before my window, and the more chips the better to remind me
of my pleasing work. I had an old axe which nobody claimed, with which
by spells in winter days, on the sunny side of the house, I played about
the stumps which I had got out of my bean-field. As my driver prophesied
when I was plowing, they warmed me twice--once while I was splitting
them, and again when they were on the fire, so that no fuel could
give out more heat. As for the axe, I was advised to get the village
blacksmith to "jump" it; but I jumped him, and, putting a hickory helve
from the woods into it, made it do. If it was dull, it was at least hung
true.

A few pieces of fat pine were a great treasure. It is interesting to
remember how much of this food for fire is still concealed in the bowels
of the earth. In previous years I had often gone prospecting over some
bare hillside, where a pitch pine wood had formerly stood, and got out
the fat pine roots. They are almost indestructible. Stumps thirty or
forty years old, at least, will still be sound at the core, though the
sapwood has all become vegetable mould, as appears by the scales of
the thick bark forming a ring level with the earth four or five inches
distant from the heart. With axe and shovel you explore this mine, and
follow the marrowy store, yellow as beef tallow, or as if you had struck
on a vein of gold, deep into the earth. But commonly I kindled my fire
with the dry leaves of the forest, which I had stored up in my shed
before the snow came. Green hickory finely split makes the woodchopper's
kindlings, when he has a camp in the woods. Once in a while I got a
little of this. When the villagers were lighting their fires beyond the
horizon, I too gave notice to the various wild inhabitants of Walden
vale, by a smoky streamer from my chimney, that I was awake.--

           Light-winged Smoke, Icarian bird,
           Melting thy pinions in thy upward flight,
           Lark without song, and messenger of dawn,
           Circling above the hamlets as thy nest;
           Or else, departing dream, and shadowy form
           Of midnight vision, gathering up thy skirts;
           By night star-veiling, and by day
           Darkening the light and blotting out the sun;
           Go thou my incense upward from this hearth,
           And ask the gods to pardon this clear flame.

Hard green wood just cut, though I used but little of that, answered my
purpose better than any other. I sometimes left a good fire when I went
to take a walk in a winter afternoon; and when I returned, three or four
hours afterward, it would be still alive and glowing. My house was not
empty though I was gone. It was as if I had left a cheerful housekeeper
behind. It was I and Fire that lived there; and commonly my housekeeper
proved trustworthy. One day, however, as I was splitting wood, I thought
that I would just look in at the window and see if the house was not on
fire; it was the only time I remember to have been particularly anxious
on this score; so I looked and saw that a spark had caught my bed, and
I went in and extinguished it when it had burned a place as big as my
hand. But my house occupied so sunny and sheltered a position, and
its roof was so low, that I could afford to let the fire go out in the
middle of almost any winter day.

The moles nested in my cellar, nibbling every third potato, and making
a snug bed even there of some hair left after plastering and of brown
paper; for even the wildest animals love comfort and warmth as well as
man, and they survive the winter only because they are so careful to
secure them. Some of my friends spoke as if I was coming to the woods on
purpose to freeze myself. The animal merely makes a bed, which he warms
with his body, in a sheltered place; but man, having discovered fire,
boxes up some air in a spacious apartment, and warms that, instead of
robbing himself, makes that his bed, in which he can move about divested
of more cumbrous clothing, maintain a kind of summer in the midst of
winter, and by means of windows even admit the light, and with a lamp
lengthen out the day. Thus he goes a step or two beyond instinct, and
saves a little time for the fine arts. Though, when I had been exposed
to the rudest blasts a long time, my whole body began to grow torpid,
when I reached the genial atmosphere of my house I soon recovered my
faculties and prolonged my life. But the most luxuriously housed has
little to boast of in this respect, nor need we trouble ourselves to
speculate how the human race may be at last destroyed. It would be
easy to cut their threads any time with a little sharper blast from the
north. We go on dating from Cold Fridays and Great Snows; but a little
colder Friday, or greater snow would put a period to man's existence on
the globe.

The next winter I used a small cooking-stove for economy, since I
did not own the forest; but it did not keep fire so well as the open
fireplace. Cooking was then, for the most part, no longer a poetic, but
merely a chemic process. It will soon be forgotten, in these days of
stoves, that we used to roast potatoes in the ashes, after the Indian
fashion. The stove not only took up room and scented the house, but it
concealed the fire, and I felt as if I had lost a companion. You can
always see a face in the fire. The laborer, looking into it at evening,
purifies his thoughts of the dross and earthiness which they have
accumulated during the day. But I could no longer sit and look into
the fire, and the pertinent words of a poet recurred to me with new
force.--

     "Never, bright flame, may be denied to me
      Thy dear, life imaging, close sympathy.
      What but my hopes shot upward e'er so bright?
      What but my fortunes sunk so low in night?
      Why art thou banished from our hearth and hall,
      Thou who art welcomed and beloved by all?
      Was thy existence then too fanciful
      For our life's common light, who are so dull?
      Did thy bright gleam mysterious converse hold
      With our congenial souls? secrets too bold?

      Well, we are safe and strong, for now we sit
      Beside a hearth where no dim shadows flit,
      Where nothing cheers nor saddens, but a fire
      Warms feet and hands--nor does to more aspire;
      By whose compact utilitarian heap
      The present may sit down and go to sleep,
      Nor fear the ghosts who from the dim past walked,
      And with us by the unequal light of the old wood fire talked."




Former Inhabitants and Winter Visitors


I weathered some merry snow-storms, and spent some cheerful winter
evenings by my fireside, while the snow whirled wildly without, and even
the hooting of the owl was hushed. For many weeks I met no one in my
walks but those who came occasionally to cut wood and sled it to the
village. The elements, however, abetted me in making a path through the
deepest snow in the woods, for when I had once gone through the wind
blew the oak leaves into my tracks, where they lodged, and by absorbing
the rays of the sun melted the snow, and so not only made a my bed
for my feet, but in the night their dark line was my guide. For human
society I was obliged to conjure up the former occupants of these woods.
Within the memory of many of my townsmen the road near which my house
stands resounded with the laugh and gossip of inhabitants, and the woods
which border it were notched and dotted here and there with their little
gardens and dwellings, though it was then much more shut in by the
forest than now. In some places, within my own remembrance, the pines
would scrape both sides of a chaise at once, and women and children who
were compelled to go this way to Lincoln alone and on foot did it with
fear, and often ran a good part of the distance. Though mainly but a
humble route to neighboring villages, or for the woodman's team, it once
amused the traveller more than now by its variety, and lingered longer
in his memory. Where now firm open fields stretch from the village to
the woods, it then ran through a maple swamp on a foundation of logs,
the remnants of which, doubtless, still underlie the present dusty
highway, from the Stratton, now the Alms-House Farm, to Brister's Hill.

East of my bean-field, across the road, lived Cato Ingraham, slave of
Duncan Ingraham, Esquire, gentleman, of Concord village, who built his
slave a house, and gave him permission to live in Walden Woods;--Cato,
not Uticensis, but Concordiensis. Some say that he was a Guinea Negro.
There are a few who remember his little patch among the walnuts, which
he let grow up till he should be old and need them; but a younger and
whiter speculator got them at last. He too, however, occupies an equally
narrow house at present. Cato's half-obliterated cellar-hole still
remains, though known to few, being concealed from the traveller by a
fringe of pines. It is now filled with the smooth sumach (_Rhus glabra_),
and one of the earliest species of goldenrod (_Solidago stricta_) grows
there luxuriantly.

Here, by the very corner of my field, still nearer to town, Zilpha,
a colored woman, had her little house, where she spun linen for the
townsfolk, making the Walden Woods ring with her shrill singing, for
she had a loud and notable voice. At length, in the war of 1812, her
dwelling was set on fire by English soldiers, prisoners on parole, when
she was away, and her cat and dog and hens were all burned up together.
She led a hard life, and somewhat inhumane. One old frequenter of these
woods remembers, that as he passed her house one noon he heard her
muttering to herself over her gurgling pot--"Ye are all bones, bones!" I
have seen bricks amid the oak copse there.

Down the road, on the right hand, on Brister's Hill, lived Brister
Freeman, "a handy Negro," slave of Squire Cummings once--there where
grow still the apple trees which Brister planted and tended; large old
trees now, but their fruit still wild and ciderish to my taste. Not long
since I read his epitaph in the old Lincoln burying-ground, a little on
one side, near the unmarked graves of some British grenadiers who fell
in the retreat from Concord--where he is styled "Sippio Brister"--Scipio
Africanus he had some title to be called--"a man of color," as if he
were discolored. It also told me, with staring emphasis, when he died;
which was but an indirect way of informing me that he ever lived.
With him dwelt Fenda, his hospitable wife, who told fortunes, yet
pleasantly--large, round, and black, blacker than any of the children of
night, such a dusky orb as never rose on Concord before or since.

Farther down the hill, on the left, on the old road in the woods, are
marks of some homestead of the Stratton family; whose orchard once
covered all the slope of Brister's Hill, but was long since killed out
by pitch pines, excepting a few stumps, whose old roots furnish still
the wild stocks of many a thrifty village tree.

Nearer yet to town, you come to Breed's location, on the other side of
the way, just on the edge of the wood; ground famous for the pranks of
a demon not distinctly named in old mythology, who has acted a prominent
and astounding part in our New England life, and deserves, as much as
any mythological character, to have his biography written one day; who
first comes in the guise of a friend or hired man, and then robs and
murders the whole family--New-England Rum. But history must not yet
tell the tragedies enacted here; let time intervene in some measure to
assuage and lend an azure tint to them. Here the most indistinct and
dubious tradition says that once a tavern stood; the well the same,
which tempered the traveller's beverage and refreshed his steed. Here
then men saluted one another, and heard and told the news, and went
their ways again.

Breed's hut was standing only a dozen years ago, though it had long
been unoccupied. It was about the size of mine. It was set on fire by
mischievous boys, one Election night, if I do not mistake. I lived on
the edge of the village then, and had just lost myself over Davenant's
"Gondibert," that winter that I labored with a lethargy--which, by the
way, I never knew whether to regard as a family complaint, having
an uncle who goes to sleep shaving himself, and is obliged to sprout
potatoes in a cellar Sundays, in order to keep awake and keep the
Sabbath, or as the consequence of my attempt to read Chalmers'
collection of English poetry without skipping. It fairly overcame my
Nervii. I had just sunk my head on this when the bells rung fire, and in
hot haste the engines rolled that way, led by a straggling troop of
men and boys, and I among the foremost, for I had leaped the brook.
We thought it was far south over the woods--we who had run to fires
before--barn, shop, or dwelling-house, or all together. "It's Baker's
barn," cried one. "It is the Codman place," affirmed another. And then
fresh sparks went up above the wood, as if the roof fell in, and we all
shouted "Concord to the rescue!" Wagons shot past with furious speed
and crushing loads, bearing, perchance, among the rest, the agent of the
Insurance Company, who was bound to go however far; and ever and anon
the engine bell tinkled behind, more slow and sure; and rearmost of all,
as it was afterward whispered, came they who set the fire and gave the
alarm. Thus we kept on like true idealists, rejecting the evidence
of our senses, until at a turn in the road we heard the crackling and
actually felt the heat of the fire from over the wall, and realized,
alas! that we were there. The very nearness of the fire but cooled our
ardor. At first we thought to throw a frog-pond on to it; but concluded
to let it burn, it was so far gone and so worthless. So we stood round
our engine, jostled one another, expressed our sentiments through
speaking-trumpets, or in lower tone referred to the great conflagrations
which the world has witnessed, including Bascom's shop, and, between
ourselves, we thought that, were we there in season with our "tub," and
a full frog-pond by, we could turn that threatened last and universal
one into another flood. We finally retreated without doing any
mischief--returned to sleep and "Gondibert." But as for "Gondibert,"
I would except that passage in the preface about wit being the soul's
powder--"but most of mankind are strangers to wit, as Indians are to
powder."

It chanced that I walked that way across the fields the following night,
about the same hour, and hearing a low moaning at this spot, I drew near
in the dark, and discovered the only survivor of the family that I know,
the heir of both its virtues and its vices, who alone was interested in
this burning, lying on his stomach and looking over the cellar wall at
the still smouldering cinders beneath, muttering to himself, as is his
wont. He had been working far off in the river meadows all day, and had
improved the first moments that he could call his own to visit the home
of his fathers and his youth. He gazed into the cellar from all sides
and points of view by turns, always lying down to it, as if there was
some treasure, which he remembered, concealed between the stones, where
there was absolutely nothing but a heap of bricks and ashes. The house
being gone, he looked at what there was left. He was soothed by the
sympathy which my mere presence implied, and showed me, as well as the
darkness permitted, where the well was covered up; which, thank Heaven,
could never be burned; and he groped long about the wall to find the
well-sweep which his father had cut and mounted, feeling for the iron
hook or staple by which a burden had been fastened to the heavy end--all
that he could now cling to--to convince me that it was no common
"rider." I felt it, and still remark it almost daily in my walks, for by
it hangs the history of a family.

Once more, on the left, where are seen the well and lilac bushes by the
wall, in the now open field, lived Nutting and Le Grosse. But to return
toward Lincoln.

Farther in the woods than any of these, where the road approaches
nearest to the pond, Wyman the potter squatted, and furnished his
townsmen with earthenware, and left descendants to succeed him. Neither
were they rich in worldly goods, holding the land by sufferance while
they lived; and there often the sheriff came in vain to collect the
taxes, and "attached a chip," for form's sake, as I have read in his
accounts, there being nothing else that he could lay his hands on. One
day in midsummer, when I was hoeing, a man who was carrying a load
of pottery to market stopped his horse against my field and inquired
concerning Wyman the younger. He had long ago bought a potter's wheel
of him, and wished to know what had become of him. I had read of the
potter's clay and wheel in Scripture, but it had never occurred to me
that the pots we use were not such as had come down unbroken from those
days, or grown on trees like gourds somewhere, and I was pleased to hear
that so fictile an art was ever practiced in my neighborhood.

The last inhabitant of these woods before me was an Irishman, Hugh
Quoil (if I have spelt his name with coil enough), who occupied Wyman's
tenement--Col. Quoil, he was called. Rumor said that he had been a
soldier at Waterloo. If he had lived I should have made him fight his
battles over again. His trade here was that of a ditcher. Napoleon went
to St. Helena; Quoil came to Walden Woods. All I know of him is tragic.
He was a man of manners, like one who had seen the world, and was
capable of more civil speech than you could well attend to. He wore a
greatcoat in midsummer, being affected with the trembling delirium, and
his face was the color of carmine. He died in the road at the foot of
Brister's Hill shortly after I came to the woods, so that I have not
remembered him as a neighbor. Before his house was pulled down, when his
comrades avoided it as "an unlucky castle," I visited it. There lay his
old clothes curled up by use, as if they were himself, upon his raised
plank bed. His pipe lay broken on the hearth, instead of a bowl broken
at the fountain. The last could never have been the symbol of his death,
for he confessed to me that, though he had heard of Brister's Spring,
he had never seen it; and soiled cards, kings of diamonds, spades,
and hearts, were scattered over the floor. One black chicken which the
administrator could not catch, black as night and as silent, not even
croaking, awaiting Reynard, still went to roost in the next apartment.
In the rear there was the dim outline of a garden, which had been
planted but had never received its first hoeing, owing to those terrible
shaking fits, though it was now harvest time. It was overrun with Roman
wormwood and beggar-ticks, which last stuck to my clothes for all fruit.
The skin of a woodchuck was freshly stretched upon the back of the
house, a trophy of his last Waterloo; but no warm cap or mittens would
he want more.

Now only a dent in the earth marks the site of these dwellings, with
buried cellar stones, and strawberries, raspberries, thimble-berries,
hazel-bushes, and sumachs growing in the sunny sward there; some
pitch pine or gnarled oak occupies what was the chimney nook, and a
sweet-scented black birch, perhaps, waves where the door-stone was.
Sometimes the well dent is visible, where once a spring oozed; now dry
and tearless grass; or it was covered deep--not to be discovered till
some late day--with a flat stone under the sod, when the last of the
race departed. What a sorrowful act must that be--the covering up of
wells! coincident with the opening of wells of tears. These cellar
dents, like deserted fox burrows, old holes, are all that is left where
once were the stir and bustle of human life, and "fate, free will,
foreknowledge absolute," in some form and dialect or other were by turns
discussed. But all I can learn of their conclusions amounts to just
this, that "Cato and Brister pulled wool"; which is about as edifying as
the history of more famous schools of philosophy.

Still grows the vivacious lilac a generation after the door and lintel
and the sill are gone, unfolding its sweet-scented flowers each spring,
to be plucked by the musing traveller; planted and tended once by
children's hands, in front-yard plots--now standing by wallsides in
retired pastures, and giving place to new-rising forests;--the last of
that stirp, sole survivor of that family. Little did the dusky children
think that the puny slip with its two eyes only, which they stuck in the
ground in the shadow of the house and daily watered, would root itself
so, and outlive them, and house itself in the rear that shaded it, and
grown man's garden and orchard, and tell their story faintly to the lone
wanderer a half-century after they had grown up and died--blossoming as
fair, and smelling as sweet, as in that first spring. I mark its still
tender, civil, cheerful lilac colors.

But this small village, germ of something more, why did it fail while
Concord keeps its ground? Were there no natural advantages--no water
privileges, forsooth? Ay, the deep Walden Pond and cool Brister's
Spring--privilege to drink long and healthy draughts at these, all
unimproved by these men but to dilute their glass. They were universally
a thirsty race. Might not the basket, stable-broom, mat-making,
corn-parching, linen-spinning, and pottery business have thrived here,
making the wilderness to blossom like the rose, and a numerous posterity
have inherited the land of their fathers? The sterile soil would at
least have been proof against a low-land degeneracy. Alas! how little
does the memory of these human inhabitants enhance the beauty of the
landscape! Again, perhaps, Nature will try, with me for a first settler,
and my house raised last spring to be the oldest in the hamlet.

I am not aware that any man has ever built on the spot which I occupy.
Deliver me from a city built on the site of a more ancient city, whose
materials are ruins, whose gardens cemeteries. The soil is blanched and
accursed there, and before that becomes necessary the earth itself will
be destroyed. With such reminiscences I repeopled the woods and lulled
myself asleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

At this season I seldom had a visitor. When the snow lay deepest no
wanderer ventured near my house for a week or fortnight at a time, but
there I lived as snug as a meadow mouse, or as cattle and poultry which
are said to have survived for a long time buried in drifts, even without
food; or like that early settler's family in the town of Sutton, in this
State, whose cottage was completely covered by the great snow of 1717
when he was absent, and an Indian found it only by the hole which the
chimney's breath made in the drift, and so relieved the family. But
no friendly Indian concerned himself about me; nor needed he, for the
master of the house was at home. The Great Snow! How cheerful it is to
hear of! When the farmers could not get to the woods and swamps with
their teams, and were obliged to cut down the shade trees before their
houses, and, when the crust was harder, cut off the trees in the swamps,
ten feet from the ground, as it appeared the next spring.

In the deepest snows, the path which I used from the highway to
my house, about half a mile long, might have been represented by a
meandering dotted line, with wide intervals between the dots. For a week
of even weather I took exactly the same number of steps, and of the same
length, coming and going, stepping deliberately and with the precision
of a pair of dividers in my own deep tracks--to such routine the winter
reduces us--yet often they were filled with heaven's own blue. But no
weather interfered fatally with my walks, or rather my going abroad, for
I frequently tramped eight or ten miles through the deepest snow to
keep an appointment with a beech tree, or a yellow birch, or an old
acquaintance among the pines; when the ice and snow causing their limbs
to droop, and so sharpening their tops, had changed the pines into fir
trees; wading to the tops of the highest hills when the snow was nearly
two feet deep on a level, and shaking down another snow-storm on my head
at every step; or sometimes creeping and floundering thither on my hands
and knees, when the hunters had gone into winter quarters. One afternoon
I amused myself by watching a barred owl (_Strix nebulosa_) sitting on one
of the lower dead limbs of a white pine, close to the trunk, in broad
daylight, I standing within a rod of him. He could hear me when I moved
and cronched the snow with my feet, but could not plainly see me. When
I made most noise he would stretch out his neck, and erect his neck
feathers, and open his eyes wide; but their lids soon fell again, and he
began to nod. I too felt a slumberous influence after watching him half
an hour, as he sat thus with his eyes half open, like a cat, winged
brother of the cat. There was only a narrow slit left between their
lids, by which he preserved a peninsular relation to me; thus, with
half-shut eyes, looking out from the land of dreams, and endeavoring
to realize me, vague object or mote that interrupted his visions. At
length, on some louder noise or my nearer approach, he would grow uneasy
and sluggishly turn about on his perch, as if impatient at having his
dreams disturbed; and when he launched himself off and flapped through
the pines, spreading his wings to unexpected breadth, I could not hear
the slightest sound from them. Thus, guided amid the pine boughs rather
by a delicate sense of their neighborhood than by sight, feeling his
twilight way, as it were, with his sensitive pinions, he found a new
perch, where he might in peace await the dawning of his day.

As I walked over the long causeway made for the railroad through the
meadows, I encountered many a blustering and nipping wind, for nowhere
has it freer play; and when the frost had smitten me on one cheek,
heathen as I was, I turned to it the other also. Nor was it much better
by the carriage road from Brister's Hill. For I came to town still, like
a friendly Indian, when the contents of the broad open fields were all
piled up between the walls of the Walden road, and half an hour sufficed
to obliterate the tracks of the last traveller. And when I returned new
drifts would have formed, through which I floundered, where the busy
northwest wind had been depositing the powdery snow round a sharp angle
in the road, and not a rabbit's track, nor even the fine print, the
small type, of a meadow mouse was to be seen. Yet I rarely failed to
find, even in midwinter, some warm and springly swamp where the grass
and the skunk-cabbage still put forth with perennial verdure, and some
hardier bird occasionally awaited the return of spring.

Sometimes, notwithstanding the snow, when I returned from my walk at
evening I crossed the deep tracks of a woodchopper leading from my door,
and found his pile of whittlings on the hearth, and my house filled with
the odor of his pipe. Or on a Sunday afternoon, if I chanced to be
at home, I heard the cronching of the snow made by the step of a
long-headed farmer, who from far through the woods sought my house, to
have a social "crack"; one of the few of his vocation who are "men on
their farms"; who donned a frock instead of a professor's gown, and is
as ready to extract the moral out of church or state as to haul a load
of manure from his barn-yard. We talked of rude and simple times, when
men sat about large fires in cold, bracing weather, with clear heads;
and when other dessert failed, we tried our teeth on many a nut which
wise squirrels have long since abandoned, for those which have the
thickest shells are commonly empty.

The one who came from farthest to my lodge, through deepest snows and
most dismal tempests, was a poet. A farmer, a hunter, a soldier, a
reporter, even a philosopher, may be daunted; but nothing can deter a
poet, for he is actuated by pure love. Who can predict his comings
and goings? His business calls him out at all hours, even when doctors
sleep. We made that small house ring with boisterous mirth and resound
with the murmur of much sober talk, making amends then to Walden vale
for the long silences. Broadway was still and deserted in comparison. At
suitable intervals there were regular salutes of laughter, which might
have been referred indifferently to the last-uttered or the forth-coming
jest. We made many a "bran new" theory of life over a thin dish
of gruel, which combined the advantages of conviviality with the
clear-headedness which philosophy requires.

I should not forget that during my last winter at the pond there was
another welcome visitor, who at one time came through the village,
through snow and rain and darkness, till he saw my lamp through the
trees, and shared with me some long winter evenings. One of the last of
the philosophers--Connecticut gave him to the world--he peddled first
her wares, afterwards, as he declares, his brains. These he peddles
still, prompting God and disgracing man, bearing for fruit his brain
only, like the nut its kernel. I think that he must be the man of the
most faith of any alive. His words and attitude always suppose a better
state of things than other men are acquainted with, and he will be the
last man to be disappointed as the ages revolve. He has no venture in
the present. But though comparatively disregarded now, when his day
comes, laws unsuspected by most will take effect, and masters of
families and rulers will come to him for advice.

               "How blind that cannot see serenity!"

A true friend of man; almost the only friend of human progress. An Old
Mortality, say rather an Immortality, with unwearied patience and faith
making plain the image engraven in men's bodies, the God of whom they
are but defaced and leaning monuments. With his hospitable intellect
he embraces children, beggars, insane, and scholars, and entertains the
thought of all, adding to it commonly some breadth and elegance. I
think that he should keep a caravansary on the world's highway, where
philosophers of all nations might put up, and on his sign should be
printed, "Entertainment for man, but not for his beast. Enter ye that
have leisure and a quiet mind, who earnestly seek the right road." He is
perhaps the sanest man and has the fewest crotchets of any I chance
to know; the same yesterday and tomorrow. Of yore we had sauntered and
talked, and effectually put the world behind us; for he was pledged to
no institution in it, freeborn, _ingenuus_. Whichever way we turned,
it seemed that the heavens and the earth had met together, since he
enhanced the beauty of the landscape. A blue-robed man, whose fittest
roof is the overarching sky which reflects his serenity. I do not see
how he can ever die; Nature cannot spare him.

Having each some shingles of thought well dried, we sat and whittled
them, trying our knives, and admiring the clear yellowish grain of the
pumpkin pine. We waded so gently and reverently, or we pulled together
so smoothly, that the fishes of thought were not scared from the stream,
nor feared any angler on the bank, but came and went grandly, like the
clouds which float through the western sky, and the mother-o'-pearl
flocks which sometimes form and dissolve there. There we worked,
revising mythology, rounding a fable here and there, and building
castles in the air for which earth offered no worthy foundation. Great
Looker! Great Expecter! to converse with whom was a New England Night's
Entertainment. Ah! such discourse we had, hermit and philosopher, and
the old settler I have spoken of--we three--it expanded and racked my
little house; I should not dare to say how many pounds' weight there
was above the atmospheric pressure on every circular inch; it opened its
seams so that they had to be calked with much dulness thereafter to stop
the consequent leak;--but I had enough of that kind of oakum already
picked.

There was one other with whom I had "solid seasons," long to be
remembered, at his house in the village, and who looked in upon me from
time to time; but I had no more for society there.

There too, as everywhere, I sometimes expected the Visitor who never
comes. The Vishnu Purana says, "The house-holder is to remain at
eventide in his courtyard as long as it takes to milk a cow, or longer
if he pleases, to await the arrival of a guest." I often performed this
duty of hospitality, waited long enough to milk a whole herd of cows,
but did not see the man approaching from the town.




Winter Animals


When the ponds were firmly frozen, they afforded not only new and
shorter routes to many points, but new views from their surfaces of the
familiar landscape around them. When I crossed Flint's Pond, after it
was covered with snow, though I had often paddled about and skated over
it, it was so unexpectedly wide and so strange that I could think of
nothing but Baffin's Bay. The Lincoln hills rose up around me at the
extremity of a snowy plain, in which I did not remember to have stood
before; and the fishermen, at an indeterminable distance over the ice,
moving slowly about with their wolfish dogs, passed for sealers, or
Esquimaux, or in misty weather loomed like fabulous creatures, and I did
not know whether they were giants or pygmies. I took this course when
I went to lecture in Lincoln in the evening, travelling in no road and
passing no house between my own hut and the lecture room. In Goose Pond,
which lay in my way, a colony of muskrats dwelt, and raised their cabins
high above the ice, though none could be seen abroad when I crossed it.
Walden, being like the rest usually bare of snow, or with only shallow
and interrupted drifts on it, was my yard where I could walk freely when
the snow was nearly two feet deep on a level elsewhere and the villagers
were confined to their streets. There, far from the village street, and
except at very long intervals, from the jingle of sleigh-bells, I slid
and skated, as in a vast moose-yard well trodden, overhung by oak woods
and solemn pines bent down with snow or bristling with icicles.

For sounds in winter nights, and often in winter days, I heard the
forlorn but melodious note of a hooting owl indefinitely far; such
a sound as the frozen earth would yield if struck with a suitable
plectrum, the very _lingua vernacula_ of Walden Wood, and quite familiar
to me at last, though I never saw the bird while it was making it. I
seldom opened my door in a winter evening without hearing it; _Hoo hoo
hoo, hoorer, hoo,_ sounded sonorously, and the first three syllables
accented somewhat like _how der do_; or sometimes _hoo, hoo_ only. One
night in the beginning of winter, before the pond froze over, about nine
o'clock, I was startled by the loud honking of a goose, and, stepping to
the door, heard the sound of their wings like a tempest in the woods
as they flew low over my house. They passed over the pond toward Fair
Haven, seemingly deterred from settling by my light, their commodore
honking all the while with a regular beat. Suddenly an unmistakable
cat-owl from very near me, with the most harsh and tremendous voice
I ever heard from any inhabitant of the woods, responded at regular
intervals to the goose, as if determined to expose and disgrace this
intruder from Hudson's Bay by exhibiting a greater compass and volume of
voice in a native, and _boo-hoo_ him out of Concord horizon. What do you
mean by alarming the citadel at this time of night consecrated to me? Do
you think I am ever caught napping at such an hour, and that I have not
got lungs and a larynx as well as yourself? _Boo-hoo, boo-hoo, boo-hoo!_
It was one of the most thrilling discords I ever heard. And yet, if you
had a discriminating ear, there were in it the elements of a concord
such as these plains never saw nor heard.

I also heard the whooping of the ice in the pond, my great bed-fellow in
that part of Concord, as if it were restless in its bed and would fain
turn over, were troubled with flatulency and had dreams; or I was waked
by the cracking of the ground by the frost, as if some one had driven a
team against my door, and in the morning would find a crack in the earth
a quarter of a mile long and a third of an inch wide.

Sometimes I heard the foxes as they ranged over the snow-crust, in
moonlight nights, in search of a partridge or other game, barking
raggedly and demoniacally like forest dogs, as if laboring with some
anxiety, or seeking expression, struggling for light and to be dogs
outright and run freely in the streets; for if we take the ages into our
account, may there not be a civilization going on among brutes as
well as men? They seemed to me to be rudimental, burrowing men, still
standing on their defence, awaiting their transformation. Sometimes one
came near to my window, attracted by my light, barked a vulpine curse at
me, and then retreated.

Usually the red squirrel (_Sciurus Hudsonius_) waked me in the dawn,
coursing over the roof and up and down the sides of the house, as if
sent out of the woods for this purpose. In the course of the winter I
threw out half a bushel of ears of sweet corn, which had not got ripe,
on to the snow-crust by my door, and was amused by watching the motions
of the various animals which were baited by it. In the twilight and the
night the rabbits came regularly and made a hearty meal. All day long
the red squirrels came and went, and afforded me much entertainment by
their manoeuvres. One would approach at first warily through the shrub
oaks, running over the snow-crust by fits and starts like a leaf blown
by the wind, now a few paces this way, with wonderful speed and waste
of energy, making inconceivable haste with his "trotters," as if it were
for a wager, and now as many paces that way, but never getting on more
than half a rod at a time; and then suddenly pausing with a ludicrous
expression and a gratuitous somerset, as if all the eyes in the universe
were eyed on him--for all the motions of a squirrel, even in the most
solitary recesses of the forest, imply spectators as much as those of a
dancing girl--wasting more time in delay and circumspection than would
have sufficed to walk the whole distance--I never saw one walk--and then
suddenly, before you could say Jack Robinson, he would be in the top
of a young pitch pine, winding up his clock and chiding all imaginary
spectators, soliloquizing and talking to all the universe at the same
time--for no reason that I could ever detect, or he himself was aware
of, I suspect. At length he would reach the corn, and selecting a
suitable ear, frisk about in the same uncertain trigonometrical way to
the topmost stick of my wood-pile, before my window, where he looked me
in the face, and there sit for hours, supplying himself with a new
ear from time to time, nibbling at first voraciously and throwing the
half-naked cobs about; till at length he grew more dainty still and
played with his food, tasting only the inside of the kernel, and the
ear, which was held balanced over the stick by one paw, slipped from
his careless grasp and fell to the ground, when he would look over at it
with a ludicrous expression of uncertainty, as if suspecting that it had
life, with a mind not made up whether to get it again, or a new one,
or be off; now thinking of corn, then listening to hear what was in
the wind. So the little impudent fellow would waste many an ear in
a forenoon; till at last, seizing some longer and plumper one,
considerably bigger than himself, and skilfully balancing it, he would
set out with it to the woods, like a tiger with a buffalo, by the same
zig-zag course and frequent pauses, scratching along with it as if it
were too heavy for him and falling all the while, making its fall a
diagonal between a perpendicular and horizontal, being determined to
put it through at any rate;--a singularly frivolous and whimsical
fellow;--and so he would get off with it to where he lived, perhaps
carry it to the top of a pine tree forty or fifty rods distant, and
I would afterwards find the cobs strewn about the woods in various
directions.

At length the jays arrive, whose discordant screams were heard long
before, as they were warily making their approach an eighth of a mile
off, and in a stealthy and sneaking manner they flit from tree to tree,
nearer and nearer, and pick up the kernels which the squirrels have
dropped. Then, sitting on a pitch pine bough, they attempt to swallow in
their haste a kernel which is too big for their throats and chokes
them; and after great labor they disgorge it, and spend an hour in
the endeavor to crack it by repeated blows with their bills. They
were manifestly thieves, and I had not much respect for them; but the
squirrels, though at first shy, went to work as if they were taking what
was their own.

Meanwhile also came the chickadees in flocks, which, picking up the
crumbs the squirrels had dropped, flew to the nearest twig and, placing
them under their claws, hammered away at them with their little bills,
as if it were an insect in the bark, till they were sufficiently reduced
for their slender throats. A little flock of these titmice came daily to
pick a dinner out of my woodpile, or the crumbs at my door, with faint
flitting lisping notes, like the tinkling of icicles in the grass, or
else with sprightly _day day day_, or more rarely, in spring-like days,
a wiry summery _phe-be_ from the woodside. They were so familiar that at
length one alighted on an armful of wood which I was carrying in, and
pecked at the sticks without fear. I once had a sparrow alight upon my
shoulder for a moment while I was hoeing in a village garden, and I felt
that I was more distinguished by that circumstance than I should have
been by any epaulet I could have worn. The squirrels also grew at last
to be quite familiar, and occasionally stepped upon my shoe, when that
was the nearest way.

When the ground was not yet quite covered, and again near the end of
winter, when the snow was melted on my south hillside and about my
wood-pile, the partridges came out of the woods morning and evening to
feed there. Whichever side you walk in the woods the partridge bursts
away on whirring wings, jarring the snow from the dry leaves and twigs
on high, which comes sifting down in the sunbeams like golden dust, for
this brave bird is not to be scared by winter. It is frequently covered
up by drifts, and, it is said, "sometimes plunges from on wing into the
soft snow, where it remains concealed for a day or two." I used to start
them in the open land also, where they had come out of the woods at
sunset to "bud" the wild apple trees. They will come regularly every
evening to particular trees, where the cunning sportsman lies in wait
for them, and the distant orchards next the woods suffer thus not
a little. I am glad that the partridge gets fed, at any rate. It is
Nature's own bird which lives on buds and diet drink.

In dark winter mornings, or in short winter afternoons, I sometimes
heard a pack of hounds threading all the woods with hounding cry and
yelp, unable to resist the instinct of the chase, and the note of the
hunting-horn at intervals, proving that man was in the rear. The woods
ring again, and yet no fox bursts forth on to the open level of the
pond, nor following pack pursuing their Actæon. And perhaps at evening
I see the hunters returning with a single brush trailing from their
sleigh for a trophy, seeking their inn. They tell me that if the fox
would remain in the bosom of the frozen earth he would be safe, or if he
would run in a straight line away no foxhound could overtake him; but,
having left his pursuers far behind, he stops to rest and listen till
they come up, and when he runs he circles round to his old haunts, where
the hunters await him. Sometimes, however, he will run upon a wall many
rods, and then leap off far to one side, and he appears to know that
water will not retain his scent. A hunter told me that he once saw a fox
pursued by hounds burst out on to Walden when the ice was covered with
shallow puddles, run part way across, and then return to the same shore.
Ere long the hounds arrived, but here they lost the scent. Sometimes
a pack hunting by themselves would pass my door, and circle round my
house, and yelp and hound without regarding me, as if afflicted by a
species of madness, so that nothing could divert them from the pursuit.
Thus they circle until they fall upon the recent trail of a fox, for a
wise hound will forsake everything else for this. One day a man came
to my hut from Lexington to inquire after his hound that made a large
track, and had been hunting for a week by himself. But I fear that he
was not the wiser for all I told him, for every time I attempted to
answer his questions he interrupted me by asking, "What do you do here?"
He had lost a dog, but found a man.

One old hunter who has a dry tongue, who used to come to bathe in Walden
once every year when the water was warmest, and at such times looked in
upon me, told me that many years ago he took his gun one afternoon and
went out for a cruise in Walden Wood; and as he walked the Wayland road
he heard the cry of hounds approaching, and ere long a fox leaped the
wall into the road, and as quick as thought leaped the other wall out of
the road, and his swift bullet had not touched him. Some way behind came
an old hound and her three pups in full pursuit, hunting on their own
account, and disappeared again in the woods. Late in the afternoon, as
he was resting in the thick woods south of Walden, he heard the voice
of the hounds far over toward Fair Haven still pursuing the fox; and
on they came, their hounding cry which made all the woods ring sounding
nearer and nearer, now from Well Meadow, now from the Baker Farm. For
a long time he stood still and listened to their music, so sweet to
a hunter's ear, when suddenly the fox appeared, threading the solemn
aisles with an easy coursing pace, whose sound was concealed by a
sympathetic rustle of the leaves, swift and still, keeping the round,
leaving his pursuers far behind; and, leaping upon a rock amid the
woods, he sat erect and listening, with his back to the hunter. For
a moment compassion restrained the latter's arm; but that was a
short-lived mood, and as quick as thought can follow thought his piece
was levelled, and _whang!_--the fox, rolling over the rock, lay dead on
the ground. The hunter still kept his place and listened to the hounds.
Still on they came, and now the near woods resounded through all their
aisles with their demoniac cry. At length the old hound burst into view
with muzzle to the ground, and snapping the air as if possessed, and ran
directly to the rock; but, spying the dead fox, she suddenly ceased her
hounding as if struck dumb with amazement, and walked round and round
him in silence; and one by one her pups arrived, and, like their mother,
were sobered into silence by the mystery. Then the hunter came forward
and stood in their midst, and the mystery was solved. They waited in
silence while he skinned the fox, then followed the brush a while, and
at length turned off into the woods again. That evening a Weston squire
came to the Concord hunter's cottage to inquire for his hounds, and told
how for a week they had been hunting on their own account from Weston
woods. The Concord hunter told him what he knew and offered him the
skin; but the other declined it and departed. He did not find his hounds
that night, but the next day learned that they had crossed the river and
put up at a farmhouse for the night, whence, having been well fed, they
took their departure early in the morning.

The hunter who told me this could remember one Sam Nutting, who used
to hunt bears on Fair Haven Ledges, and exchange their skins for rum
in Concord village; who told him, even, that he had seen a moose
there. Nutting had a famous foxhound named Burgoyne--he pronounced it
Bugine--which my informant used to borrow. In the "Wast Book" of an
old trader of this town, who was also a captain, town-clerk, and
representative, I find the following entry. Jan. 18th, 1742-3, "John
Melven Cr. by 1 Grey Fox 0--2--3"; they are not now found here; and in
his ledger, Feb, 7th, 1743, Hezekiah Stratton has credit "by 1/2 a Catt
skin 0--1--4-1/2"; of course, a wild-cat, for Stratton was a sergeant in
the old French war, and would not have got credit for hunting less noble
game. Credit is given for deerskins also, and they were daily sold. One
man still preserves the horns of the last deer that was killed in this
vicinity, and another has told me the particulars of the hunt in which
his uncle was engaged. The hunters were formerly a numerous and merry
crew here. I remember well one gaunt Nimrod who would catch up a leaf
by the roadside and play a strain on it wilder and more melodious, if my
memory serves me, than any hunting-horn.

At midnight, when there was a moon, I sometimes met with hounds in my
path prowling about the woods, which would skulk out of my way, as if
afraid, and stand silent amid the bushes till I had passed.

Squirrels and wild mice disputed for my store of nuts. There were scores
of pitch pines around my house, from one to four inches in diameter,
which had been gnawed by mice the previous winter--a Norwegian winter
for them, for the snow lay long and deep, and they were obliged to mix
a large proportion of pine bark with their other diet. These trees were
alive and apparently flourishing at midsummer, and many of them had
grown a foot, though completely girdled; but after another winter such
were without exception dead. It is remarkable that a single mouse should
thus be allowed a whole pine tree for its dinner, gnawing round instead
of up and down it; but perhaps it is necessary in order to thin these
trees, which are wont to grow up densely.

The hares (_Lepus Americanus_) were very familiar. One had her form under
my house all winter, separated from me only by the flooring, and
she startled me each morning by her hasty departure when I began to
stir--thump, thump, thump, striking her head against the floor timbers
in her hurry. They used to come round my door at dusk to nibble the
potato parings which I had thrown out, and were so nearly the color of
the ground that they could hardly be distinguished when still. Sometimes
in the twilight I alternately lost and recovered sight of one sitting
motionless under my window. When I opened my door in the evening, off
they would go with a squeak and a bounce. Near at hand they only excited
my pity. One evening one sat by my door two paces from me, at first
trembling with fear, yet unwilling to move; a poor wee thing, lean and
bony, with ragged ears and sharp nose, scant tail and slender paws. It
looked as if Nature no longer contained the breed of nobler bloods, but
stood on her last toes. Its large eyes appeared young and unhealthy,
almost dropsical. I took a step, and lo, away it scud with an elastic
spring over the snow-crust, straightening its body and its limbs into
graceful length, and soon put the forest between me and itself--the wild
free venison, asserting its vigor and the dignity of Nature. Not without
reason was its slenderness. Such then was its nature. (_Lepus_, _levipes_,
light-foot, some think.)

What is a country without rabbits and partridges? They are among the
most simple and indigenous animal products; ancient and venerable
families known to antiquity as to modern times; of the very hue and
substance of Nature, nearest allied to leaves and to the ground--and to
one another; it is either winged or it is legged. It is hardly as if you
had seen a wild creature when a rabbit or a partridge bursts away, only
a natural one, as much to be expected as rustling leaves. The partridge
and the rabbit are still sure to thrive, like true natives of the soil,
whatever revolutions occur. If the forest is cut off, the sprouts and
bushes which spring up afford them concealment, and they become more
numerous than ever. That must be a poor country indeed that does not
support a hare. Our woods teem with them both, and around every swamp
may be seen the partridge or rabbit walk, beset with twiggy fences and
horse-hair snares, which some cow-boy tends.




The Pond in Winter


After a still winter night I awoke with the impression that some
question had been put to me, which I had been endeavoring in vain to
answer in my sleep, as what--how--when--where? But there was dawning
Nature, in whom all creatures live, looking in at my broad windows with
serene and satisfied face, and no question on _her_ lips. I awoke to an
answered question, to Nature and daylight. The snow lying deep on the
earth dotted with young pines, and the very slope of the hill on which
my house is placed, seemed to say, Forward! Nature puts no question
and answers none which we mortals ask. She has long ago taken her
resolution. "O Prince, our eyes contemplate with admiration and transmit
to the soul the wonderful and varied spectacle of this universe. The
night veils without doubt a part of this glorious creation; but day
comes to reveal to us this great work, which extends from earth even
into the plains of the ether."

Then to my morning work. First I take an axe and pail and go in search
of water, if that be not a dream. After a cold and snowy night it needed
a divining-rod to find it. Every winter the liquid and trembling surface
of the pond, which was so sensitive to every breath, and reflected every
light and shadow, becomes solid to the depth of a foot or a foot and a
half, so that it will support the heaviest teams, and perchance the snow
covers it to an equal depth, and it is not to be distinguished from any
level field. Like the marmots in the surrounding hills, it closes its
eyelids and becomes dormant for three months or more. Standing on the
snow-covered plain, as if in a pasture amid the hills, I cut my way
first through a foot of snow, and then a foot of ice, and open a window
under my feet, where, kneeling to drink, I look down into the quiet
parlor of the fishes, pervaded by a softened light as through a window
of ground glass, with its bright sanded floor the same as in summer;
there a perennial waveless serenity reigns as in the amber twilight
sky, corresponding to the cool and even temperament of the inhabitants.
Heaven is under our feet as well as over our heads.

Early in the morning, while all things are crisp with frost, men come
with fishing-reels and slender lunch, and let down their fine lines
through the snowy field to take pickerel and perch; wild men, who
instinctively follow other fashions and trust other authorities than
their townsmen, and by their goings and comings stitch towns together in
parts where else they would be ripped. They sit and eat their luncheon
in stout fear-naughts on the dry oak leaves on the shore, as wise in
natural lore as the citizen is in artificial. They never consulted with
books, and know and can tell much less than they have done. The things
which they practice are said not yet to be known. Here is one fishing
for pickerel with grown perch for bait. You look into his pail with
wonder as into a summer pond, as if he kept summer locked up at home, or
knew where she had retreated. How, pray, did he get these in midwinter?
Oh, he got worms out of rotten logs since the ground froze, and so he
caught them. His life itself passes deeper in nature than the studies
of the naturalist penetrate; himself a subject for the naturalist.
The latter raises the moss and bark gently with his knife in search of
insects; the former lays open logs to their core with his axe, and moss
and bark fly far and wide. He gets his living by barking trees. Such a
man has some right to fish, and I love to see nature carried out in him.
The perch swallows the grub-worm, the pickerel swallows the perch, and
the fisher-man swallows the pickerel; and so all the chinks in the scale
of being are filled.

When I strolled around the pond in misty weather I was sometimes amused
by the primitive mode which some ruder fisherman had adopted. He would
perhaps have placed alder branches over the narrow holes in the ice,
which were four or five rods apart and an equal distance from the shore,
and having fastened the end of the line to a stick to prevent its being
pulled through, have passed the slack line over a twig of the alder, a
foot or more above the ice, and tied a dry oak leaf to it, which, being
pulled down, would show when he had a bite. These alders loomed through
the mist at regular intervals as you walked half way round the pond.

Ah, the pickerel of Walden! when I see them lying on the ice, or in the
well which the fisherman cuts in the ice, making a little hole to admit
the water, I am always surprised by their rare beauty, as if they were
fabulous fishes, they are so foreign to the streets, even to the woods,
foreign as Arabia to our Concord life. They possess a quite dazzling
and transcendent beauty which separates them by a wide interval from the
cadaverous cod and haddock whose fame is trumpeted in our streets. They
are not green like the pines, nor gray like the stones, nor blue like
the sky; but they have, to my eyes, if possible, yet rarer colors, like
flowers and precious stones, as if they were the pearls, the animalized
nuclei or crystals of the Walden water. They, of course, are Walden
all over and all through; are themselves small Waldens in the animal
kingdom, Waldenses. It is surprising that they are caught here--that
in this deep and capacious spring, far beneath the rattling teams and
chaises and tinkling sleighs that travel the Walden road, this great
gold and emerald fish swims. I never chanced to see its kind in any
market; it would be the cynosure of all eyes there. Easily, with a
few convulsive quirks, they give up their watery ghosts, like a mortal
translated before his time to the thin air of heaven.

       *       *       *       *       *

As I was desirous to recover the long lost bottom of Walden Pond, I
surveyed it carefully, before the ice broke up, early in '46, with
compass and chain and sounding line. There have been many stories told
about the bottom, or rather no bottom, of this pond, which certainly had
no foundation for themselves. It is remarkable how long men will believe
in the bottomlessness of a pond without taking the trouble to sound
it. I have visited two such Bottomless Ponds in one walk in this
neighborhood. Many have believed that Walden reached quite through to
the other side of the globe. Some who have lain flat on the ice for
a long time, looking down through the illusive medium, perchance with
watery eyes into the bargain, and driven to hasty conclusions by the
fear of catching cold in their breasts, have seen vast holes "into which
a load of hay might be driven," if there were anybody to drive it, the
undoubted source of the Styx and entrance to the Infernal Regions from
these parts. Others have gone down from the village with a "fifty-six"
and a wagon load of inch rope, but yet have failed to find any bottom;
for while the "fifty-six" was resting by the way, they were paying out
the rope in the vain attempt to fathom their truly immeasurable capacity
for marvellousness. But I can assure my readers that Walden has a
reasonably tight bottom at a not unreasonable, though at an unusual,
depth. I fathomed it easily with a cod-line and a stone weighing about
a pound and a half, and could tell accurately when the stone left the
bottom, by having to pull so much harder before the water got underneath
to help me. The greatest depth was exactly one hundred and two feet; to
which may be added the five feet which it has risen since, making one
hundred and seven. This is a remarkable depth for so small an area; yet
not an inch of it can be spared by the imagination. What if all ponds
were shallow? Would it not react on the minds of men? I am thankful that
this pond was made deep and pure for a symbol. While men believe in the
infinite some ponds will be thought to be bottomless.

A factory-owner, hearing what depth I had found, thought that it could
not be true, for, judging from his acquaintance with dams, sand would
not lie at so steep an angle. But the deepest ponds are not so deep in
proportion to their area as most suppose, and, if drained, would not
leave very remarkable valleys. They are not like cups between the hills;
for this one, which is so unusually deep for its area, appears in a
vertical section through its centre not deeper than a shallow plate.
Most ponds, emptied, would leave a meadow no more hollow than we
frequently see. William Gilpin, who is so admirable in all that relates
to landscapes, and usually so correct, standing at the head of Loch
Fyne, in Scotland, which he describes as "a bay of salt water, sixty
or seventy fathoms deep, four miles in breadth," and about fifty miles
long, surrounded by mountains, observes, "If we could have seen it
immediately after the diluvian crash, or whatever convulsion of nature
occasioned it, before the waters gushed in, what a horrid chasm must it
have appeared!

            "So high as heaved the tumid hills, so low
             Down sunk a hollow bottom broad and deep,
             Capacious bed of waters."

But if, using the shortest diameter of Loch Fyne, we apply these
proportions to Walden, which, as we have seen, appears already in a
vertical section only like a shallow plate, it will appear four times
as shallow. So much for the increased horrors of the chasm of Loch
Fyne when emptied. No doubt many a smiling valley with its stretching
cornfields occupies exactly such a "horrid chasm," from which the waters
have receded, though it requires the insight and the far sight of the
geologist to convince the unsuspecting inhabitants of this fact. Often
an inquisitive eye may detect the shores of a primitive lake in the
low horizon hills, and no subsequent elevation of the plain have been
necessary to conceal their history. But it is easiest, as they who work
on the highways know, to find the hollows by the puddles after a shower.
The amount of it is, the imagination give it the least license, dives
deeper and soars higher than Nature goes. So, probably, the depth of the
ocean will be found to be very inconsiderable compared with its breadth.

As I sounded through the ice I could determine the shape of the bottom
with greater accuracy than is possible in surveying harbors which do
not freeze over, and I was surprised at its general regularity. In the
deepest part there are several acres more level than almost any field
which is exposed to the sun, wind, and plow. In one instance, on a line
arbitrarily chosen, the depth did not vary more than one foot in thirty
rods; and generally, near the middle, I could calculate the variation
for each one hundred feet in any direction beforehand within three or
four inches. Some are accustomed to speak of deep and dangerous holes
even in quiet sandy ponds like this, but the effect of water under these
circumstances is to level all inequalities. The regularity of the bottom
and its conformity to the shores and the range of the neighboring
hills were so perfect that a distant promontory betrayed itself in the
soundings quite across the pond, and its direction could be determined
by observing the opposite shore. Cape becomes bar, and plain shoal, and
valley and gorge deep water and channel.

When I had mapped the pond by the scale of ten rods to an inch, and
put down the soundings, more than a hundred in all, I observed this
remarkable coincidence. Having noticed that the number indicating the
greatest depth was apparently in the centre of the map, I laid a rule
on the map lengthwise, and then breadthwise, and found, to my surprise,
that the line of greatest length intersected the line of greatest
breadth _exactly_ at the point of greatest depth, notwithstanding that the
middle is so nearly level, the outline of the pond far from regular, and
the extreme length and breadth were got by measuring into the coves; and
I said to myself, Who knows but this hint would conduct to the deepest
part of the ocean as well as of a pond or puddle? Is not this the rule
also for the height of mountains, regarded as the opposite of valleys?
We know that a hill is not highest at its narrowest part.

Of five coves, three, or all which had been sounded, were observed to
have a bar quite across their mouths and deeper water within, so that
the bay tended to be an expansion of water within the land not only
horizontally but vertically, and to form a basin or independent pond,
the direction of the two capes showing the course of the bar. Every
harbor on the sea-coast, also, has its bar at its entrance. In
proportion as the mouth of the cove was wider compared with its length,
the water over the bar was deeper compared with that in the basin.
Given, then, the length and breadth of the cove, and the character of
the surrounding shore, and you have almost elements enough to make out a
formula for all cases.

In order to see how nearly I could guess, with this experience, at the
deepest point in a pond, by observing the outlines of a surface and
the character of its shores alone, I made a plan of White Pond, which
contains about forty-one acres, and, like this, has no island in it, nor
any visible inlet or outlet; and as the line of greatest breadth fell
very near the line of least breadth, where two opposite capes approached
each other and two opposite bays receded, I ventured to mark a point a
short distance from the latter line, but still on the line of greatest
length, as the deepest. The deepest part was found to be within one
hundred feet of this, still farther in the direction to which I had
inclined, and was only one foot deeper, namely, sixty feet. Of course, a
stream running through, or an island in the pond, would make the problem
much more complicated.

If we knew all the laws of Nature, we should need only one fact, or
the description of one actual phenomenon, to infer all the particular
results at that point. Now we know only a few laws, and our result is
vitiated, not, of course, by any confusion or irregularity in Nature,
but by our ignorance of essential elements in the calculation. Our
notions of law and harmony are commonly confined to those instances
which we detect; but the harmony which results from a far greater number
of seemingly conflicting, but really concurring, laws, which we have not
detected, is still more wonderful. The particular laws are as our points
of view, as, to the traveller, a mountain outline varies with every
step, and it has an infinite number of profiles, though absolutely but
one form. Even when cleft or bored through it is not comprehended in its
entireness.

What I have observed of the pond is no less true in ethics. It is the
law of average. Such a rule of the two diameters not only guides us
toward the sun in the system and the heart in man, but draws lines
through the length and breadth of the aggregate of a man's particular
daily behaviors and waves of life into his coves and inlets, and where
they intersect will be the height or depth of his character. Perhaps
we need only to know how his shores trend and his adjacent country
or circumstances, to infer his depth and concealed bottom. If he is
surrounded by mountainous circumstances, an Achillean shore, whose peaks
overshadow and are reflected in his bosom, they suggest a corresponding
depth in him. But a low and smooth shore proves him shallow on that
side. In our bodies, a bold projecting brow falls off to and indicates a
corresponding depth of thought. Also there is a bar across the entrance
of our every cove, or particular inclination; each is our harbor for
a season, in which we are detained and partially land-locked. These
inclinations are not whimsical usually, but their form, size, and
direction are determined by the promontories of the shore, the ancient
axes of elevation. When this bar is gradually increased by storms,
tides, or currents, or there is a subsidence of the waters, so that it
reaches to the surface, that which was at first but an inclination in
the shore in which a thought was harbored becomes an individual
lake, cut off from the ocean, wherein the thought secures its own
conditions--changes, perhaps, from salt to fresh, becomes a sweet sea,
dead sea, or a marsh. At the advent of each individual into this life,
may we not suppose that such a bar has risen to the surface somewhere?
It is true, we are such poor navigators that our thoughts, for the most
part, stand off and on upon a harborless coast, are conversant only with
the bights of the bays of poesy, or steer for the public ports of entry,
and go into the dry docks of science, where they merely refit for this
world, and no natural currents concur to individualize them.

As for the inlet or outlet of Walden, I have not discovered any but rain
and snow and evaporation, though perhaps, with a thermometer and a line,
such places may be found, for where the water flows into the pond it
will probably be coldest in summer and warmest in winter. When the
ice-men were at work here in '46-7, the cakes sent to the shore were one
day rejected by those who were stacking them up there, not being
thick enough to lie side by side with the rest; and the cutters thus
discovered that the ice over a small space was two or three inches
thinner than elsewhere, which made them think that there was an inlet
there. They also showed me in another place what they thought was a
"leach-hole," through which the pond leaked out under a hill into a
neighboring meadow, pushing me out on a cake of ice to see it. It was a
small cavity under ten feet of water; but I think that I can warrant the
pond not to need soldering till they find a worse leak than that.
One has suggested, that if such a "leach-hole" should be found, its
connection with the meadow, if any existed, might be proved by conveying
some colored powder or sawdust to the mouth of the hole, and then
putting a strainer over the spring in the meadow, which would catch some
of the particles carried through by the current.

While I was surveying, the ice, which was sixteen inches thick,
undulated under a slight wind like water. It is well known that a
level cannot be used on ice. At one rod from the shore its greatest
fluctuation, when observed by means of a level on land directed toward
a graduated staff on the ice, was three quarters of an inch, though the
ice appeared firmly attached to the shore. It was probably greater in
the middle. Who knows but if our instruments were delicate enough we
might detect an undulation in the crust of the earth? When two legs of
my level were on the shore and the third on the ice, and the sights
were directed over the latter, a rise or fall of the ice of an almost
infinitesimal amount made a difference of several feet on a tree across
the pond. When I began to cut holes for sounding there were three or
four inches of water on the ice under a deep snow which had sunk it
thus far; but the water began immediately to run into these holes, and
continued to run for two days in deep streams, which wore away the ice
on every side, and contributed essentially, if not mainly, to dry the
surface of the pond; for, as the water ran in, it raised and floated the
ice. This was somewhat like cutting a hole in the bottom of a ship to
let the water out. When such holes freeze, and a rain succeeds,
and finally a new freezing forms a fresh smooth ice over all, it is
beautifully mottled internally by dark figures, shaped somewhat like a
spider's web, what you may call ice rosettes, produced by the channels
worn by the water flowing from all sides to a centre. Sometimes, also,
when the ice was covered with shallow puddles, I saw a double shadow of
myself, one standing on the head of the other, one on the ice, the other
on the trees or hillside.

       *       *       *       *       *

While yet it is cold January, and snow and ice are thick and solid, the
prudent landlord comes from the village to get ice to cool his summer
drink; impressively, even pathetically, wise, to foresee the heat and
thirst of July now in January--wearing a thick coat and mittens! when so
many things are not provided for. It may be that he lays up no treasures
in this world which will cool his summer drink in the next. He cuts and
saws the solid pond, unroofs the house of fishes, and carts off their
very element and air, held fast by chains and stakes like corded wood,
through the favoring winter air, to wintry cellars, to underlie the
summer there. It looks like solidified azure, as, far off, it is drawn
through the streets. These ice-cutters are a merry race, full of jest
and sport, and when I went among them they were wont to invite me to saw
pit-fashion with them, I standing underneath.

In the winter of '46-7 there came a hundred men of Hyperborean
extraction swoop down on to our pond one morning, with many carloads
of ungainly-looking farming tools--sleds, plows, drill-barrows,
turf-knives, spades, saws, rakes, and each man was armed with a
double-pointed pike-staff, such as is not described in the New-England
Farmer or the Cultivator. I did not know whether they had come to sow a
crop of winter rye, or some other kind of grain recently introduced from
Iceland. As I saw no manure, I judged that they meant to skim the land,
as I had done, thinking the soil was deep and had lain fallow long
enough. They said that a gentleman farmer, who was behind the scenes,
wanted to double his money, which, as I understood, amounted to half
a million already; but in order to cover each one of his dollars with
another, he took off the only coat, ay, the skin itself, of Walden
Pond in the midst of a hard winter. They went to work at once, plowing,
barrowing, rolling, furrowing, in admirable order, as if they were bent
on making this a model farm; but when I was looking sharp to see what
kind of seed they dropped into the furrow, a gang of fellows by my side
suddenly began to hook up the virgin mould itself, with a peculiar jerk,
clean down to the sand, or rather the water--for it was a very springy
soil--indeed all the _terra firma_ there was--and haul it away on sleds,
and then I guessed that they must be cutting peat in a bog. So they came
and went every day, with a peculiar shriek from the locomotive, from and
to some point of the polar regions, as it seemed to me, like a flock
of arctic snow-birds. But sometimes Squaw Walden had her revenge, and
a hired man, walking behind his team, slipped through a crack in the
ground down toward Tartarus, and he who was so brave before suddenly
became but the ninth part of a man, almost gave up his animal heat, and
was glad to take refuge in my house, and acknowledged that there was
some virtue in a stove; or sometimes the frozen soil took a piece of
steel out of a plowshare, or a plow got set in the furrow and had to be
cut out.

To speak literally, a hundred Irishmen, with Yankee overseers, came from
Cambridge every day to get out the ice. They divided it into cakes by
methods too well known to require description, and these, being sledded
to the shore, were rapidly hauled off on to an ice platform, and raised
by grappling irons and block and tackle, worked by horses, on to a
stack, as surely as so many barrels of flour, and there placed evenly
side by side, and row upon row, as if they formed the solid base of an
obelisk designed to pierce the clouds. They told me that in a good day
they could get out a thousand tons, which was the yield of about one
acre. Deep ruts and "cradle-holes" were worn in the ice, as on _terra
firma_, by the passage of the sleds over the same track, and the horses
invariably ate their oats out of cakes of ice hollowed out like buckets.
They stacked up the cakes thus in the open air in a pile thirty-five
feet high on one side and six or seven rods square, putting hay between
the outside layers to exclude the air; for when the wind, though never
so cold, finds a passage through, it will wear large cavities, leaving
slight supports or studs only here and there, and finally topple it
down. At first it looked like a vast blue fort or Valhalla; but when
they began to tuck the coarse meadow hay into the crevices, and this
became covered with rime and icicles, it looked like a venerable
moss-grown and hoary ruin, built of azure-tinted marble, the abode of
Winter, that old man we see in the almanac--his shanty, as if he had
a design to estivate with us. They calculated that not twenty-five per
cent of this would reach its destination, and that two or three per cent
would be wasted in the cars. However, a still greater part of this heap
had a different destiny from what was intended; for, either because the
ice was found not to keep so well as was expected, containing more air
than usual, or for some other reason, it never got to market. This heap,
made in the winter of '46-7 and estimated to contain ten thousand tons,
was finally covered with hay and boards; and though it was unroofed the
following July, and a part of it carried off, the rest remaining exposed
to the sun, it stood over that summer and the next winter, and was not
quite melted till September, 1848. Thus the pond recovered the greater
part.

Like the water, the Walden ice, seen near at hand, has a green tint, but
at a distance is beautifully blue, and you can easily tell it from the
white ice of the river, or the merely greenish ice of some ponds, a
quarter of a mile off. Sometimes one of those great cakes slips from the
ice-man's sled into the village street, and lies there for a week like a
great emerald, an object of interest to all passers. I have noticed that
a portion of Walden which in the state of water was green will often,
when frozen, appear from the same point of view blue. So the hollows
about this pond will, sometimes, in the winter, be filled with a
greenish water somewhat like its own, but the next day will have frozen
blue. Perhaps the blue color of water and ice is due to the light and
air they contain, and the most transparent is the bluest. Ice is an
interesting subject for contemplation. They told me that they had some
in the ice-houses at Fresh Pond five years old which was as good as
ever. Why is it that a bucket of water soon becomes putrid, but frozen
remains sweet forever? It is commonly said that this is the difference
between the affections and the intellect.

Thus for sixteen days I saw from my window a hundred men at work like
busy husbandmen, with teams and horses and apparently all the implements
of farming, such a picture as we see on the first page of the almanac;
and as often as I looked out I was reminded of the fable of the lark and
the reapers, or the parable of the sower, and the like; and now they are
all gone, and in thirty days more, probably, I shall look from the same
window on the pure sea-green Walden water there, reflecting the clouds
and the trees, and sending up its evaporations in solitude, and no
traces will appear that a man has ever stood there. Perhaps I shall hear
a solitary loon laugh as he dives and plumes himself, or shall see a
lonely fisher in his boat, like a floating leaf, beholding his form
reflected in the waves, where lately a hundred men securely labored.

Thus it appears that the sweltering inhabitants of Charleston and New
Orleans, of Madras and Bombay and Calcutta, drink at my well. In the
morning I bathe my intellect in the stupendous and cosmogonal philosophy
of the Bhagvat-Geeta, since whose composition years of the gods
have elapsed, and in comparison with which our modern world and its
literature seem puny and trivial; and I doubt if that philosophy is
not to be referred to a previous state of existence, so remote is its
sublimity from our conceptions. I lay down the book and go to my well
for water, and lo! there I meet the servant of the Bramin, priest of
Brahma and Vishnu and Indra, who still sits in his temple on the Ganges
reading the Vedas, or dwells at the root of a tree with his crust and
water jug. I meet his servant come to draw water for his master, and
our buckets as it were grate together in the same well. The pure Walden
water is mingled with the sacred water of the Ganges. With favoring
winds it is wafted past the site of the fabulous islands of Atlantis and
the Hesperides, makes the periplus of Hanno, and, floating by Ternate
and Tidore and the mouth of the Persian Gulf, melts in the tropic gales
of the Indian seas, and is landed in ports of which Alexander only heard
the names.




Spring


The opening of large tracts by the ice-cutters commonly causes a pond
to break up earlier; for the water, agitated by the wind, even in cold
weather, wears away the surrounding ice. But such was not the effect on
Walden that year, for she had soon got a thick new garment to take the
place of the old. This pond never breaks up so soon as the others in
this neighborhood, on account both of its greater depth and its having
no stream passing through it to melt or wear away the ice. I never knew
it to open in the course of a winter, not excepting that of '52-3, which
gave the ponds so severe a trial. It commonly opens about the first
of April, a week or ten days later than Flint's Pond and Fair Haven,
beginning to melt on the north side and in the shallower parts where
it began to freeze. It indicates better than any water hereabouts the
absolute progress of the season, being least affected by transient
changes of temperature. A severe cold of a few days' duration in
March may very much retard the opening of the former ponds, while the
temperature of Walden increases almost uninterruptedly. A thermometer
thrust into the middle of Walden on the 6th of March, 1847, stood at
32º, or freezing point; near the shore at 33º; in the middle of Flint's
Pond, the same day, at 32º; at a dozen rods from the shore, in shallow
water, under ice a foot thick, at 36º. This difference of three and a
half degrees between the temperature of the deep water and the shallow
in the latter pond, and the fact that a great proportion of it is
comparatively shallow, show why it should break up so much sooner than
Walden. The ice in the shallowest part was at this time several inches
thinner than in the middle. In midwinter the middle had been the warmest
and the ice thinnest there. So, also, every one who has waded about the
shores of the pond in summer must have perceived how much warmer the
water is close to the shore, where only three or four inches deep, than
a little distance out, and on the surface where it is deep, than near
the bottom. In spring the sun not only exerts an influence through the
increased temperature of the air and earth, but its heat passes through
ice a foot or more thick, and is reflected from the bottom in shallow
water, and so also warms the water and melts the under side of the ice,
at the same time that it is melting it more directly above, making
it uneven, and causing the air bubbles which it contains to extend
themselves upward and downward until it is completely honeycombed, and
at last disappears suddenly in a single spring rain. Ice has its grain
as well as wood, and when a cake begins to rot or "comb," that is,
assume the appearance of honeycomb, whatever may be its position, the
air cells are at right angles with what was the water surface. Where
there is a rock or a log rising near to the surface the ice over it is
much thinner, and is frequently quite dissolved by this reflected heat;
and I have been told that in the experiment at Cambridge to freeze water
in a shallow wooden pond, though the cold air circulated underneath, and
so had access to both sides, the reflection of the sun from the bottom
more than counterbalanced this advantage. When a warm rain in the middle
of the winter melts off the snow-ice from Walden, and leaves a hard dark
or transparent ice on the middle, there will be a strip of rotten though
thicker white ice, a rod or more wide, about the shores, created by this
reflected heat. Also, as I have said, the bubbles themselves within the
ice operate as burning-glasses to melt the ice beneath.

The phenomena of the year take place every day in a pond on a small
scale. Every morning, generally speaking, the shallow water is being
warmed more rapidly than the deep, though it may not be made so warm
after all, and every evening it is being cooled more rapidly until the
morning. The day is an epitome of the year. The night is the winter, the
morning and evening are the spring and fall, and the noon is the summer.
The cracking and booming of the ice indicate a change of temperature.
One pleasant morning after a cold night, February 24th, 1850, having
gone to Flint's Pond to spend the day, I noticed with surprise, that
when I struck the ice with the head of my axe, it resounded like a gong
for many rods around, or as if I had struck on a tight drum-head.
The pond began to boom about an hour after sunrise, when it felt the
influence of the sun's rays slanted upon it from over the hills;
it stretched itself and yawned like a waking man with a gradually
increasing tumult, which was kept up three or four hours. It took a
short siesta at noon, and boomed once more toward night, as the sun
was withdrawing his influence. In the right stage of the weather a pond
fires its evening gun with great regularity. But in the middle of the
day, being full of cracks, and the air also being less elastic, it had
completely lost its resonance, and probably fishes and muskrats could
not then have been stunned by a blow on it. The fishermen say that the
"thundering of the pond" scares the fishes and prevents their biting.
The pond does not thunder every evening, and I cannot tell surely when
to expect its thundering; but though I may perceive no difference in
the weather, it does. Who would have suspected so large and cold and
thick-skinned a thing to be so sensitive? Yet it has its law to which
it thunders obedience when it should as surely as the buds expand in the
spring. The earth is all alive and covered with papillae. The largest
pond is as sensitive to atmospheric changes as the globule of mercury in
its tube.

One attraction in coming to the woods to live was that I should have
leisure and opportunity to see the Spring come in. The ice in the pond
at length begins to be honeycombed, and I can set my heel in it as I
walk. Fogs and rains and warmer suns are gradually melting the snow; the
days have grown sensibly longer; and I see how I shall get through the
winter without adding to my wood-pile, for large fires are no longer
necessary. I am on the alert for the first signs of spring, to hear the
chance note of some arriving bird, or the striped squirrel's chirp, for
his stores must be now nearly exhausted, or see the woodchuck venture
out of his winter quarters. On the 13th of March, after I had heard the
bluebird, song sparrow, and red-wing, the ice was still nearly a foot
thick. As the weather grew warmer it was not sensibly worn away by the
water, nor broken up and floated off as in rivers, but, though it was
completely melted for half a rod in width about the shore, the middle
was merely honeycombed and saturated with water, so that you could put
your foot through it when six inches thick; but by the next day evening,
perhaps, after a warm rain followed by fog, it would have wholly
disappeared, all gone off with the fog, spirited away. One year I went
across the middle only five days before it disappeared entirely. In 1845
Walden was first completely open on the 1st of April; in '46, the 25th
of March; in '47, the 8th of April; in '51, the 28th of March; in '52,
the 18th of April; in '53, the 23d of March; in '54, about the 7th of
April.

Every incident connected with the breaking up of the rivers and ponds
and the settling of the weather is particularly interesting to us who
live in a climate of so great extremes. When the warmer days come, they
who dwell near the river hear the ice crack at night with a startling
whoop as loud as artillery, as if its icy fetters were rent from end to
end, and within a few days see it rapidly going out. So the alligator
comes out of the mud with quakings of the earth. One old man, who has
been a close observer of Nature, and seems as thoroughly wise in regard
to all her operations as if she had been put upon the stocks when he was
a boy, and he had helped to lay her keel--who has come to his growth,
and can hardly acquire more of natural lore if he should live to the age
of Methuselah--told me--and I was surprised to hear him express wonder
at any of Nature's operations, for I thought that there were no secrets
between them--that one spring day he took his gun and boat, and thought
that he would have a little sport with the ducks. There was ice still on
the meadows, but it was all gone out of the river, and he dropped down
without obstruction from Sudbury, where he lived, to Fair Haven Pond,
which he found, unexpectedly, covered for the most part with a firm
field of ice. It was a warm day, and he was surprised to see so great
a body of ice remaining. Not seeing any ducks, he hid his boat on the
north or back side of an island in the pond, and then concealed himself
in the bushes on the south side, to await them. The ice was melted for
three or four rods from the shore, and there was a smooth and warm sheet
of water, with a muddy bottom, such as the ducks love, within, and he
thought it likely that some would be along pretty soon. After he had
lain still there about an hour he heard a low and seemingly very distant
sound, but singularly grand and impressive, unlike anything he had ever
heard, gradually swelling and increasing as if it would have a universal
and memorable ending, a sullen rush and roar, which seemed to him all
at once like the sound of a vast body of fowl coming in to settle there,
and, seizing his gun, he started up in haste and excited; but he found,
to his surprise, that the whole body of the ice had started while he lay
there, and drifted in to the shore, and the sound he had heard was made
by its edge grating on the shore--at first gently nibbled and crumbled
off, but at length heaving up and scattering its wrecks along the island
to a considerable height before it came to a standstill.

At length the sun's rays have attained the right angle, and warm winds
blow up mist and rain and melt the snowbanks, and the sun, dispersing
the mist, smiles on a checkered landscape of russet and white smoking
with incense, through which the traveller picks his way from islet to
islet, cheered by the music of a thousand tinkling rills and rivulets
whose veins are filled with the blood of winter which they are bearing
off.

Few phenomena gave me more delight than to observe the forms which
thawing sand and clay assume in flowing down the sides of a deep cut
on the railroad through which I passed on my way to the village, a
phenomenon not very common on so large a scale, though the number of
freshly exposed banks of the right material must have been greatly
multiplied since railroads were invented. The material was sand of every
degree of fineness and of various rich colors, commonly mixed with
a little clay. When the frost comes out in the spring, and even in a
thawing day in the winter, the sand begins to flow down the slopes like
lava, sometimes bursting out through the snow and overflowing it where
no sand was to be seen before. Innumerable little streams overlap and
interlace one with another, exhibiting a sort of hybrid product, which
obeys half way the law of currents, and half way that of vegetation. As
it flows it takes the forms of sappy leaves or vines, making heaps of
pulpy sprays a foot or more in depth, and resembling, as you look
down on them, the laciniated, lobed, and imbricated thalluses of some
lichens; or you are reminded of coral, of leopard's paws or birds' feet,
of brains or lungs or bowels, and excrements of all kinds. It is a truly
_grotesque_ vegetation, whose forms and color we see imitated in bronze,
a sort of architectural foliage more ancient and typical than acanthus,
chiccory, ivy, vine, or any vegetable leaves; destined perhaps, under
some circumstances, to become a puzzle to future geologists. The whole
cut impressed me as if it were a cave with its stalactites laid open
to the light. The various shades of the sand are singularly rich and
agreeable, embracing the different iron colors, brown, gray, yellowish,
and reddish. When the flowing mass reaches the drain at the foot of the
bank it spreads out flatter into _strands_, the separate streams losing
their semi-cylindrical form and gradually becoming more flat and broad,
running together as they are more moist, till they form an almost flat
_sand_, still variously and beautifully shaded, but in which you can trace
the original forms of vegetation; till at length, in the water itself,
they are converted into _banks_, like those formed off the mouths of
rivers, and the forms of vegetation are lost in the ripple marks on the
bottom.

The whole bank, which is from twenty to forty feet high, is sometimes
overlaid with a mass of this kind of foliage, or sandy rupture, for a
quarter of a mile on one or both sides, the produce of one spring day.
What makes this sand foliage remarkable is its springing into existence
thus suddenly. When I see on the one side the inert bank--for the sun
acts on one side first--and on the other this luxuriant foliage, the
creation of an hour, I am affected as if in a peculiar sense I stood
in the laboratory of the Artist who made the world and me--had come to
where he was still at work, sporting on this bank, and with excess of
energy strewing his fresh designs about. I feel as if I were nearer to
the vitals of the globe, for this sandy overflow is something such a
foliaceous mass as the vitals of the animal body. You find thus in the
very sands an anticipation of the vegetable leaf. No wonder that the
earth expresses itself outwardly in leaves, it so labors with the idea
inwardly. The atoms have already learned this law, and are pregnant by
it. The overhanging leaf sees here its prototype. _Internally_, whether
in the globe or animal body, it is a moist thick _lobe_, a word especially
applicable to the liver and lungs and the leaves of fat
(γεἱβω, _labor_, _lapsus_, to flow or slip downward, a lapsing; λοβὁς,
_globus_, lobe, globe; also lap, flap, and many other words); _externally_
a dry thin _leaf_, even as the _f_ and _v_ are a pressed and dried _b_.
The radicals of _lobe_ are _lb_, the soft mass of the _b_ (single lobed,
or B, double lobed), with the liquid _l_ behind it pressing it forward.
In globe, _glb_, the guttural _g_ adds to the meaning the capacity of
the throat. The feathers and wings of birds are still drier and thinner
leaves. Thus, also, you pass from the lumpish grub in the earth to the
airy and fluttering butterfly. The very globe continually transcends and
translates itself, and becomes winged in its orbit. Even ice begins with
delicate crystal leaves, as if it had flowed into moulds which the fronds
of waterplants have impressed on the watery mirror. The whole tree itself
is but one leaf, and rivers are still vaster leaves whose pulp is intervening
earth, and towns and cities are the ova of insects in their axils.

When the sun withdraws the sand ceases to flow, but in the morning the
streams will start once more and branch and branch again into a myriad
of others. You here see perchance how blood-vessels are formed. If
you look closely you observe that first there pushes forward from the
thawing mass a stream of softened sand with a drop-like point, like the
ball of the finger, feeling its way slowly and blindly downward, until
at last with more heat and moisture, as the sun gets higher, the most
fluid portion, in its effort to obey the law to which the most inert
also yields, separates from the latter and forms for itself a meandering
channel or artery within that, in which is seen a little silvery stream
glancing like lightning from one stage of pulpy leaves or branches to
another, and ever and anon swallowed up in the sand. It is wonderful how
rapidly yet perfectly the sand organizes itself as it flows, using the
best material its mass affords to form the sharp edges of its channel.
Such are the sources of rivers. In the silicious matter which the water
deposits is perhaps the bony system, and in the still finer soil and
organic matter the fleshy fibre or cellular tissue. What is man but
a mass of thawing clay? The ball of the human finger is but a drop
congealed. The fingers and toes flow to their extent from the thawing
mass of the body. Who knows what the human body would expand and flow
out to under a more genial heaven? Is not the hand a spreading _palm_
leaf with its lobes and veins? The ear may be regarded, fancifully, as a
lichen, _Umbilicaria_, on the side of the head, with its lobe or drop.
The lip--_labium_, from _labor_ (?)--laps or lapses from the sides of the
cavernous mouth. The nose is a manifest congealed drop or stalactite.
The chin is a still larger drop, the confluent dripping of the face. The
cheeks are a slide from the brows into the valley of the face, opposed
and diffused by the cheek bones. Each rounded lobe of the vegetable
leaf, too, is a thick and now loitering drop, larger or smaller; the
lobes are the fingers of the leaf; and as many lobes as it has, in
so many directions it tends to flow, and more heat or other genial
influences would have caused it to flow yet farther.

Thus it seemed that this one hillside illustrated the principle of all
the operations of Nature. The Maker of this earth but patented a leaf.
What Champollion will decipher this hieroglyphic for us, that we may
turn over a new leaf at last? This phenomenon is more exhilarating to
me than the luxuriance and fertility of vineyards. True, it is somewhat
excrementitious in its character, and there is no end to the heaps
of liver, lights, and bowels, as if the globe were turned wrong side
outward; but this suggests at least that Nature has some bowels, and
there again is mother of humanity. This is the frost coming out of the
ground; this is Spring. It precedes the green and flowery spring, as
mythology precedes regular poetry. I know of nothing more purgative of
winter fumes and indigestions. It convinces me that Earth is still in
her swaddling-clothes, and stretches forth baby fingers on every side.
Fresh curls spring from the baldest brow. There is nothing inorganic.
These foliaceous heaps lie along the bank like the slag of a furnace,
showing that Nature is "in full blast" within. The earth is not a mere
fragment of dead history, stratum upon stratum like the leaves of a
book, to be studied by geologists and antiquaries chiefly, but living
poetry like the leaves of a tree, which precede flowers and fruit--not a
fossil earth, but a living earth; compared with whose great central life
all animal and vegetable life is merely parasitic. Its throes will heave
our exuviae from their graves. You may melt your metals and cast them
into the most beautiful moulds you can; they will never excite me like
the forms which this molten earth flows out into. And not only it,
but the institutions upon it are plastic like clay in the hands of the
potter.

Ere long, not only on these banks, but on every hill and plain and in
every hollow, the frost comes out of the ground like a dormant quadruped
from its burrow, and seeks the sea with music, or migrates to other
climes in clouds. Thaw with his gentle persuasion is more powerful than
Thor with his hammer. The one melts, the other but breaks in pieces.

When the ground was partially bare of snow, and a few warm days had
dried its surface somewhat, it was pleasant to compare the first tender
signs of the infant year just peeping forth with the stately
beauty of the withered vegetation which had withstood the
winter--life-everlasting, goldenrods, pinweeds, and graceful wild
grasses, more obvious and interesting frequently than in summer even,
as if their beauty was not ripe till then; even cotton-grass, cat-tails,
mulleins, johnswort, hard-hack, meadow-sweet, and other strong-stemmed
plants, those unexhausted granaries which entertain the earliest
birds--decent weeds, at least, which widowed Nature wears. I am
particularly attracted by the arching and sheaf-like top of the
wool-grass; it brings back the summer to our winter memories, and is
among the forms which art loves to copy, and which, in the vegetable
kingdom, have the same relation to types already in the mind of man that
astronomy has. It is an antique style, older than Greek or Egyptian.
Many of the phenomena of Winter are suggestive of an inexpressible
tenderness and fragile delicacy. We are accustomed to hear this king
described as a rude and boisterous tyrant; but with the gentleness of a
lover he adorns the tresses of Summer.

At the approach of spring the red squirrels got under my house, two at
a time, directly under my feet as I sat reading or writing, and kept up
the queerest chuckling and chirruping and vocal pirouetting and gurgling
sounds that ever were heard; and when I stamped they only chirruped the
louder, as if past all fear and respect in their mad pranks, defying
humanity to stop them. No, you don't--chickaree--chickaree. They were
wholly deaf to my arguments, or failed to perceive their force, and fell
into a strain of invective that was irresistible.

The first sparrow of spring! The year beginning with younger hope than
ever! The faint silvery warblings heard over the partially bare and
moist fields from the bluebird, the song sparrow, and the red-wing, as
if the last flakes of winter tinkled as they fell! What at such a time
are histories, chronologies, traditions, and all written revelations?
The brooks sing carols and glees to the spring. The marsh hawk, sailing
low over the meadow, is already seeking the first slimy life that
awakes. The sinking sound of melting snow is heard in all dells, and the
ice dissolves apace in the ponds. The grass flames up on the hillsides
like a spring fire--"et primitus oritur herba imbribus primoribus
evocata"--as if the earth sent forth an inward heat to greet the
returning sun; not yellow but green is the color of its flame;--the
symbol of perpetual youth, the grass-blade, like a long green ribbon,
streams from the sod into the summer, checked indeed by the frost, but
anon pushing on again, lifting its spear of last year's hay with the
fresh life below. It grows as steadily as the rill oozes out of the
ground. It is almost identical with that, for in the growing days of
June, when the rills are dry, the grass-blades are their channels, and
from year to year the herds drink at this perennial green stream, and
the mower draws from it betimes their winter supply. So our human life
but dies down to its root, and still puts forth its green blade to
eternity.

Walden is melting apace. There is a canal two rods wide along the
northerly and westerly sides, and wider still at the east end. A great
field of ice has cracked off from the main body. I hear a song sparrow
singing from the bushes on the shore,--_olit_, _olit_, _olit,_--_chip_,
_chip_, _chip_, _che char_,--_che wiss_, _wiss_, _wiss_. He too is
helping to crack it. How handsome the great sweeping curves in the edge
of the ice, answering somewhat to those of the shore, but more regular!
It is unusually hard, owing to the recent severe but transient cold, and
all watered or waved like a palace floor. But the wind slides eastward
over its opaque surface in vain, till it reaches the living surface
beyond. It is glorious to behold this ribbon of water sparkling in the
sun, the bare face of the pond full of glee and youth, as if it spoke
the joy of the fishes within it, and of the sands on its shore--a
silvery sheen as from the scales of a leuciscus, as it were all one
active fish. Such is the contrast between winter and spring. Walden was
dead and is alive again. But this spring it broke up more steadily, as I
have said.

The change from storm and winter to serene and mild weather, from dark
and sluggish hours to bright and elastic ones, is a memorable crisis
which all things proclaim. It is seemingly instantaneous at last.
Suddenly an influx of light filled my house, though the evening was at
hand, and the clouds of winter still overhung it, and the eaves were
dripping with sleety rain. I looked out the window, and lo! where
yesterday was cold gray ice there lay the transparent pond already calm
and full of hope as in a summer evening, reflecting a summer evening
sky in its bosom, though none was visible overhead, as if it had
intelligence with some remote horizon. I heard a robin in the distance,
the first I had heard for many a thousand years, methought, whose note
I shall not forget for many a thousand more--the same sweet and powerful
song as of yore. O the evening robin, at the end of a New England summer
day! If I could ever find the twig he sits upon! I mean _he_; I mean the
_twig_. This at least is not the _Turdus migratorius_. The pitch pines and
shrub oaks about my house, which had so long drooped, suddenly resumed
their several characters, looked brighter, greener, and more erect and
alive, as if effectually cleansed and restored by the rain. I knew that
it would not rain any more. You may tell by looking at any twig of the
forest, ay, at your very wood-pile, whether its winter is past or not.
As it grew darker, I was startled by the honking of geese flying low
over the woods, like weary travellers getting in late from Southern
lakes, and indulging at last in unrestrained complaint and mutual
consolation. Standing at my door, I could hear the rush of their wings;
when, driving toward my house, they suddenly spied my light, and with
hushed clamor wheeled and settled in the pond. So I came in, and shut
the door, and passed my first spring night in the woods.

In the morning I watched the geese from the door through the mist,
sailing in the middle of the pond, fifty rods off, so large and
tumultuous that Walden appeared like an artificial pond for their
amusement. But when I stood on the shore they at once rose up with a
great flapping of wings at the signal of their commander, and when they
had got into rank circled about over my head, twenty-nine of them, and
then steered straight to Canada, with a regular _honk_ from the leader at
intervals, trusting to break their fast in muddier pools. A "plump" of
ducks rose at the same time and took the route to the north in the wake
of their noisier cousins.

For a week I heard the circling, groping clangor of some solitary goose
in the foggy mornings, seeking its companion, and still peopling the
woods with the sound of a larger life than they could sustain. In April
the pigeons were seen again flying express in small flocks, and in due
time I heard the martins twittering over my clearing, though it had not
seemed that the township contained so many that it could afford me any,
and I fancied that they were peculiarly of the ancient race that dwelt
in hollow trees ere white men came. In almost all climes the tortoise
and the frog are among the precursors and heralds of this season, and
birds fly with song and glancing plumage, and plants spring and bloom,
and winds blow, to correct this slight oscillation of the poles and
preserve the equilibrium of nature.

As every season seems best to us in its turn, so the coming in of spring
is like the creation of Cosmos out of Chaos and the realization of the
Golden Age.--

  "Eurus ad Auroram Nabathaeaque regna recessit,
   Persidaque, et radiis juga subdita matutinis."

  "The East-Wind withdrew to Aurora and the Nabathæn kingdom,
   And the Persian, and the ridges placed under the morning rays.
                        . . . . . . .
   Man was born.  Whether that Artificer of things,
   The origin of a better world, made him from the divine seed;
   Or the earth, being recent and lately sundered from the high
   Ether, retained some seeds of cognate heaven."

A single gentle rain makes the grass many shades greener. So our
prospects brighten on the influx of better thoughts. We should be
blessed if we lived in the present always, and took advantage of every
accident that befell us, like the grass which confesses the influence
of the slightest dew that falls on it; and did not spend our time in
atoning for the neglect of past opportunities, which we call doing our
duty. We loiter in winter while it is already spring. In a pleasant
spring morning all men's sins are forgiven. Such a day is a truce to
vice. While such a sun holds out to burn, the vilest sinner may return.
Through our own recovered innocence we discern the innocence of our
neighbors. You may have known your neighbor yesterday for a thief,
a drunkard, or a sensualist, and merely pitied or despised him, and
despaired of the world; but the sun shines bright and warm this first
spring morning, recreating the world, and you meet him at some serene
work, and see how it is exhausted and debauched veins expand with still
joy and bless the new day, feel the spring influence with the innocence
of infancy, and all his faults are forgotten. There is not only an
atmosphere of good will about him, but even a savor of holiness groping
for expression, blindly and ineffectually perhaps, like a new-born
instinct, and for a short hour the south hill-side echoes to no vulgar
jest. You see some innocent fair shoots preparing to burst from his
gnarled rind and try another year's life, tender and fresh as the
youngest plant. Even he has entered into the joy of his Lord. Why the
jailer does not leave open his prison doors--why the judge does not
dismis his case--why the preacher does not dismiss his congregation! It
is because they do not obey the hint which God gives them, nor accept
the pardon which he freely offers to all.

"A return to goodness produced each day in the tranquil and beneficent
breath of the morning, causes that in respect to the love of virtue and
the hatred of vice, one approaches a little the primitive nature of man,
as the sprouts of the forest which has been felled. In like manner
the evil which one does in the interval of a day prevents the germs of
virtues which began to spring up again from developing themselves and
destroys them.

"After the germs of virtue have thus been prevented many times from
developing themselves, then the beneficent breath of evening does not
suffice to preserve them. As soon as the breath of evening does not
suffice longer to preserve them, then the nature of man does not differ
much from that of the brute. Men seeing the nature of this man like that
of the brute, think that he has never possessed the innate faculty of
reason. Are those the true and natural sentiments of man?"

   "The Golden Age was first created, which without any avenger
    Spontaneously without law cherished fidelity and rectitude.
    Punishment and fear were not; nor were threatening words read
    On suspended brass; nor did the suppliant crowd fear
    The words of their judge; but were safe without an avenger.
    Not yet the pine felled on its mountains had descended
    To the liquid waves that it might see a foreign world,
    And mortals knew no shores but their own.
                          . . . . . . .
    There was eternal spring, and placid zephyrs with warm
    Blasts soothed the flowers born without seed."

On the 29th of April, as I was fishing from the bank of the river near
the Nine-Acre-Corner bridge, standing on the quaking grass and willow
roots, where the muskrats lurk, I heard a singular rattling sound,
somewhat like that of the sticks which boys play with their fingers,
when, looking up, I observed a very slight and graceful hawk, like a
nighthawk, alternately soaring like a ripple and tumbling a rod or two
over and over, showing the under side of its wings, which gleamed like
a satin ribbon in the sun, or like the pearly inside of a shell.
This sight reminded me of falconry and what nobleness and poetry are
associated with that sport. The Merlin it seemed to me it might be
called: but I care not for its name. It was the most ethereal flight I
had ever witnessed. It did not simply flutter like a butterfly, nor soar
like the larger hawks, but it sported with proud reliance in the fields
of air; mounting again and again with its strange chuckle, it repeated
its free and beautiful fall, turning over and over like a kite, and then
recovering from its lofty tumbling, as if it had never set its foot on
_terra firma_. It appeared to have no companion in the universe--sporting
there alone--and to need none but the morning and the ether with which
it played. It was not lonely, but made all the earth lonely beneath it.
Where was the parent which hatched it, its kindred, and its father in
the heavens? The tenant of the air, it seemed related to the earth but
by an egg hatched some time in the crevice of a crag;--or was its native
nest made in the angle of a cloud, woven of the rainbow's trimmings and
the sunset sky, and lined with some soft midsummer haze caught up from
earth? Its eyry now some cliffy cloud.

Beside this I got a rare mess of golden and silver and bright cupreous
fishes, which looked like a string of jewels. Ah! I have penetrated to
those meadows on the morning of many a first spring day, jumping from
hummock to hummock, from willow root to willow root, when the wild river
valley and the woods were bathed in so pure and bright a light as would
have waked the dead, if they had been slumbering in their graves, as
some suppose. There needs no stronger proof of immortality. All things
must live in such a light. O Death, where was thy sting? O Grave, where
was thy victory, then?

Our village life would stagnate if it were not for the unexplored
forests and meadows which surround it. We need the tonic of wildness--to
wade sometimes in marshes where the bittern and the meadow-hen lurk, and
hear the booming of the snipe; to smell the whispering sedge where only
some wilder and more solitary fowl builds her nest, and the mink crawls
with its belly close to the ground. At the same time that we are
earnest to explore and learn all things, we require that all things
be mysterious and unexplorable, that land and sea be infinitely wild,
unsurveyed and unfathomed by us because unfathomable. We can never have
enough of nature. We must be refreshed by the sight of inexhaustible
vigor, vast and titanic features, the sea-coast with its wrecks, the
wilderness with its living and its decaying trees, the thunder-cloud,
and the rain which lasts three weeks and produces freshets. We need
to witness our own limits transgressed, and some life pasturing freely
where we never wander. We are cheered when we observe the vulture
feeding on the carrion which disgusts and disheartens us, and deriving
health and strength from the repast. There was a dead horse in the
hollow by the path to my house, which compelled me sometimes to go
out of my way, especially in the night when the air was heavy, but the
assurance it gave me of the strong appetite and inviolable health of
Nature was my compensation for this. I love to see that Nature is
so rife with life that myriads can be afforded to be sacrificed and
suffered to prey on one another; that tender organizations can be so
serenely squashed out of existence like pulp--tadpoles which herons
gobble up, and tortoises and toads run over in the road; and that
sometimes it has rained flesh and blood! With the liability to accident,
we must see how little account is to be made of it. The impression made
on a wise man is that of universal innocence. Poison is not poisonous
after all, nor are any wounds fatal. Compassion is a very untenable
ground. It must be expeditious. Its pleadings will not bear to be
stereotyped.

Early in May, the oaks, hickories, maples, and other trees, just putting
out amidst the pine woods around the pond, imparted a brightness like
sunshine to the landscape, especially in cloudy days, as if the sun were
breaking through mists and shining faintly on the hillsides here and
there. On the third or fourth of May I saw a loon in the pond, and
during the first week of the month I heard the whip-poor-will, the brown
thrasher, the veery, the wood pewee, the chewink, and other birds. I had
heard the wood thrush long before. The phœbe had already come once more
and looked in at my door and window, to see if my house was cavern-like
enough for her, sustaining herself on humming wings with clinched
talons, as if she held by the air, while she surveyed the premises.
The sulphur-like pollen of the pitch pine soon covered the pond and the
stones and rotten wood along the shore, so that you could have collected
a barrelful. This is the "sulphur showers" we hear of. Even in Calidas'
drama of Sacontala, we read of "rills dyed yellow with the golden dust
of the lotus." And so the seasons went rolling on into summer, as one
rambles into higher and higher grass.

Thus was my first year's life in the woods completed; and the second
year was similar to it. I finally left Walden September 6th, 1847.




Conclusion


To the sick the doctors wisely recommend a change of air and scenery.
Thank Heaven, here is not all the world. The buckeye does not grow in
New England, and the mockingbird is rarely heard here. The wild goose
is more of a cosmopolite than we; he breaks his fast in Canada, takes
a luncheon in the Ohio, and plumes himself for the night in a southern
bayou. Even the bison, to some extent, keeps pace with the seasons
cropping the pastures of the Colorado only till a greener and sweeter
grass awaits him by the Yellowstone. Yet we think that if rail fences
are pulled down, and stone walls piled up on our farms, bounds are
henceforth set to our lives and our fates decided. If you are chosen
town clerk, forsooth, you cannot go to Tierra del Fuego this summer: but
you may go to the land of infernal fire nevertheless. The universe is
wider than our views of it.

Yet we should oftener look over the tafferel of our craft, like curious
passengers, and not make the voyage like stupid sailors picking oakum.
The other side of the globe is but the home of our correspondent. Our
voyaging is only great-circle sailing, and the doctors prescribe for
diseases of the skin merely. One hastens to southern Africa to chase the
giraffe; but surely that is not the game he would be after. How long,
pray, would a man hunt giraffes if he could? Snipes and woodcocks also
may afford rare sport; but I trust it would be nobler game to shoot
one's self.--

          "Direct your eye right inward, and you'll find
           A thousand regions in your mind
           Yet undiscovered.  Travel them, and be
           Expert in home-cosmography."

What does Africa--what does the West stand for? Is not our own interior
white on the chart? black though it may prove, like the coast,
when discovered. Is it the source of the Nile, or the Niger, or the
Mississippi, or a Northwest Passage around this continent, that we would
find? Are these the problems which most concern mankind? Is Franklin the
only man who is lost, that his wife should be so earnest to find him?
Does Mr. Grinnell know where he himself is? Be rather the Mungo Park,
the Lewis and Clark and Frobisher, of your own streams and oceans;
explore your own higher latitudes--with shiploads of preserved meats to
support you, if they be necessary; and pile the empty cans sky-high for
a sign. Were preserved meats invented to preserve meat merely? Nay, be
a Columbus to whole new continents and worlds within you, opening new
channels, not of trade, but of thought. Every man is the lord of a realm
beside which the earthly empire of the Czar is but a petty state,
a hummock left by the ice. Yet some can be patriotic who have no
self-respect, and sacrifice the greater to the less. They love the soil
which makes their graves, but have no sympathy with the spirit which may
still animate their clay. Patriotism is a maggot in their heads. What
was the meaning of that South-Sea Exploring Expedition, with all its
parade and expense, but an indirect recognition of the fact that there
are continents and seas in the moral world to which every man is an
isthmus or an inlet, yet unexplored by him, but that it is easier to
sail many thousand miles through cold and storm and cannibals, in a
government ship, with five hundred men and boys to assist one, than it
is to explore the private sea, the Atlantic and Pacific Ocean of one's
being alone.

          "Erret, et extremos alter scrutetur Iberos.
           Plus habet hic vitae, plus habet ille viae."

   Let them wander and scrutinize the outlandish Australians.
   I have more of God, they more of the road.

It is not worth the while to go round the world to count the cats in
Zanzibar. Yet do this even till you can do better, and you may perhaps
find some "Symmes' Hole" by which to get at the inside at last. England
and France, Spain and Portugal, Gold Coast and Slave Coast, all front
on this private sea; but no bark from them has ventured out of sight of
land, though it is without doubt the direct way to India. If you would
learn to speak all tongues and conform to the customs of all nations,
if you would travel farther than all travellers, be naturalized in all
climes, and cause the Sphinx to dash her head against a stone, even
obey the precept of the old philosopher, and Explore thyself. Herein are
demanded the eye and the nerve. Only the defeated and deserters go to
the wars, cowards that run away and enlist. Start now on that farthest
western way, which does not pause at the Mississippi or the Pacific, nor
conduct toward a worn-out China or Japan, but leads on direct, a tangent
to this sphere, summer and winter, day and night, sun down, moon down,
and at last earth down too.

It is said that Mirabeau took to highway robbery "to ascertain what
degree of resolution was necessary in order to place one's self in
formal opposition to the most sacred laws of society." He declared that
"a soldier who fights in the ranks does not require half so much courage
as a footpad"--"that honor and religion have never stood in the way of a
well-considered and a firm resolve." This was manly, as the world goes;
and yet it was idle, if not desperate. A saner man would have found
himself often enough "in formal opposition" to what are deemed "the most
sacred laws of society," through obedience to yet more sacred laws, and
so have tested his resolution without going out of his way. It is not
for a man to put himself in such an attitude to society, but to maintain
himself in whatever attitude he find himself through obedience to the
laws of his being, which will never be one of opposition to a just
government, if he should chance to meet with such.

I left the woods for as good a reason as I went there. Perhaps it seemed
to me that I had several more lives to live, and could not spare any
more time for that one. It is remarkable how easily and insensibly we
fall into a particular route, and make a beaten track for ourselves. I
had not lived there a week before my feet wore a path from my door to
the pond-side; and though it is five or six years since I trod it, it
is still quite distinct. It is true, I fear, that others may have fallen
into it, and so helped to keep it open. The surface of the earth is soft
and impressible by the feet of men; and so with the paths which the mind
travels. How worn and dusty, then, must be the highways of the world,
how deep the ruts of tradition and conformity! I did not wish to take a
cabin passage, but rather to go before the mast and on the deck of the
world, for there I could best see the moonlight amid the mountains. I do
not wish to go below now.

I learned this, at least, by my experiment: that if one advances
confidently in the direction of his dreams, and endeavors to live the
life which he has imagined, he will meet with a success unexpected in
common hours. He will put some things behind, will pass an invisible
boundary; new, universal, and more liberal laws will begin to establish
themselves around and within him; or the old laws be expanded, and
interpreted in his favor in a more liberal sense, and he will live with
the license of a higher order of beings. In proportion as he simplifies
his life, the laws of the universe will appear less complex, and
solitude will not be solitude, nor poverty poverty, nor weakness
weakness. If you have built castles in the air, your work need not be
lost; that is where they should be. Now put the foundations under them.

It is a ridiculous demand which England and America make, that you shall
speak so that they can understand you. Neither men nor toadstools grow
so. As if that were important, and there were not enough to understand
you without them. As if Nature could support but one order of
understandings, could not sustain birds as well as quadrupeds, flying as
well as creeping things, and _hush_ and _whoa_, which Bright can
understand, were the best English. As if there were safety in stupidity
alone. I fear chiefly lest my expression may not be _extra-vagant_
enough, may not wander far enough beyond the narrow limits of my daily
experience, so as to be adequate to the truth of which I have been
convinced. _Extra vagance!_ it depends on how you are yarded. The
migrating buffalo, which seeks new pastures in another latitude, is not
extravagant like the cow which kicks over the pail, leaps the cowyard
fence, and runs after her calf, in milking time. I desire to speak
somewhere _without_ bounds; like a man in a waking moment, to men in
their waking moments; for I am convinced that I cannot exaggerate enough
even to lay the foundation of a true expression. Who that has heard a
strain of music feared then lest he should speak extravagantly any more
forever? In view of the future or possible, we should live quite laxly
and undefined in front, our outlines dim and misty on that side; as our
shadows reveal an insensible perspiration toward the sun. The volatile
truth of our words should continually betray the inadequacy of the
residual statement. Their truth is instantly _translated_; its literal
monument alone remains. The words which express our faith and piety are
not definite; yet they are significant and fragrant like frankincense to
superior natures.

Why level downward to our dullest perception always, and praise that as
common sense? The commonest sense is the sense of men asleep, which they
express by snoring. Sometimes we are inclined to class those who are
once-and-a-half-witted with the half-witted, because we appreciate only
a third part of their wit. Some would find fault with the morning red,
if they ever got up early enough. "They pretend," as I hear, "that the
verses of Kabir have four different senses; illusion, spirit, intellect,
and the exoteric doctrine of the Vedas"; but in this part of the world
it is considered a ground for complaint if a man's writings admit
of more than one interpretation. While England endeavors to cure the
potato-rot, will not any endeavor to cure the brain-rot, which prevails
so much more widely and fatally?

I do not suppose that I have attained to obscurity, but I should be
proud if no more fatal fault were found with my pages on this score than
was found with the Walden ice. Southern customers objected to its blue
color, which is the evidence of its purity, as if it were muddy, and
preferred the Cambridge ice, which is white, but tastes of weeds. The
purity men love is like the mists which envelop the earth, and not like
the azure ether beyond.

Some are dinning in our ears that we Americans, and moderns generally,
are intellectual dwarfs compared with the ancients, or even the
Elizabethan men. But what is that to the purpose? A living dog is better
than a dead lion. Shall a man go and hang himself because he belongs to
the race of pygmies, and not be the biggest pygmy that he can? Let every
one mind his own business, and endeavor to be what he was made.

Why should we be in such desperate haste to succeed and in such
desperate enterprises? If a man does not keep pace with his companions,
perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. Let him step to the
music which he hears, however measured or far away. It is not important
that he should mature as soon as an apple tree or an oak. Shall he turn
his spring into summer? If the condition of things which we were made
for is not yet, what were any reality which we can substitute? We will
not be shipwrecked on a vain reality. Shall we with pains erect a heaven
of blue glass over ourselves, though when it is done we shall be sure to
gaze still at the true ethereal heaven far above, as if the former were
not?

There was an artist in the city of Kouroo who was disposed to strive
after perfection. One day it came into his mind to make a staff. Having
considered that in an imperfect work time is an ingredient, but into
a perfect work time does not enter, he said to himself, It shall be
perfect in all respects, though I should do nothing else in my life.
He proceeded instantly to the forest for wood, being resolved that it
should not be made of unsuitable material; and as he searched for and
rejected stick after stick, his friends gradually deserted him, for they
grew old in their works and died, but he grew not older by a moment. His
singleness of purpose and resolution, and his elevated piety, endowed
him, without his knowledge, with perennial youth. As he made no
compromise with Time, Time kept out of his way, and only sighed at a
distance because he could not overcome him. Before he had found a stock
in all respects suitable the city of Kouroo was a hoary ruin, and he
sat on one of its mounds to peel the stick. Before he had given it the
proper shape the dynasty of the Candahars was at an end, and with the
point of the stick he wrote the name of the last of that race in
the sand, and then resumed his work. By the time he had smoothed and
polished the staff Kalpa was no longer the pole-star; and ere he had
put on the ferule and the head adorned with precious stones, Brahma
had awoke and slumbered many times. But why do I stay to mention these
things? When the finishing stroke was put to his work, it suddenly
expanded before the eyes of the astonished artist into the fairest of
all the creations of Brahma. He had made a new system in making a staff,
a world with full and fair proportions; in which, though the old cities
and dynasties had passed away, fairer and more glorious ones had taken
their places. And now he saw by the heap of shavings still fresh at his
feet, that, for him and his work, the former lapse of time had been
an illusion, and that no more time had elapsed than is required for a
single scintillation from the brain of Brahma to fall on and inflame the
tinder of a mortal brain. The material was pure, and his art was pure;
how could the result be other than wonderful?

No face which we can give to a matter will stead us so well at last as
the truth. This alone wears well. For the most part, we are not where
we are, but in a false position. Through an infinity of our natures, we
suppose a case, and put ourselves into it, and hence are in two cases at
the same time, and it is doubly difficult to get out. In sane moments we
regard only the facts, the case that is. Say what you have to say, not
what you ought. Any truth is better than make-believe. Tom Hyde, the
tinker, standing on the gallows, was asked if he had anything to say.
"Tell the tailors," said he, "to remember to make a knot in their thread
before they take the first stitch." His companion's prayer is forgotten.

However mean your life is, meet it and live it; do not shun it and call
it hard names. It is not so bad as you are. It looks poorest when you
are richest. The fault-finder will find faults even in paradise. Love
your life, poor as it is. You may perhaps have some pleasant, thrilling,
glorious hours, even in a poorhouse. The setting sun is reflected from
the windows of the almshouse as brightly as from the rich man's abode;
the snow melts before its door as early in the spring. I do not see
but a quiet mind may live as contentedly there, and have as cheering
thoughts, as in a palace. The town's poor seem to me often to live the
most independent lives of any. Maybe they are simply great enough
to receive without misgiving. Most think that they are above being
supported by the town; but it oftener happens that they are not
above supporting themselves by dishonest means, which should be more
disreputable. Cultivate poverty like a garden herb, like sage. Do not
trouble yourself much to get new things, whether clothes or friends.
Turn the old; return to them. Things do not change; we change. Sell
your clothes and keep your thoughts. God will see that you do not want
society. If I were confined to a corner of a garret all my days, like a
spider, the world would be just as large to me while I had my thoughts
about me. The philosopher said: "From an army of three divisions one
can take away its general, and put it in disorder; from the man the
most abject and vulgar one cannot take away his thought." Do not seek so
anxiously to be developed, to subject yourself to many influences to
be played on; it is all dissipation. Humility like darkness reveals the
heavenly lights. The shadows of poverty and meanness gather around us,
"and lo! creation widens to our view." We are often reminded that if
there were bestowed on us the wealth of Croesus, our aims must still
be the same, and our means essentially the same. Moreover, if you
are restricted in your range by poverty, if you cannot buy books and
newspapers, for instance, you are but confined to the most significant
and vital experiences; you are compelled to deal with the material which
yields the most sugar and the most starch. It is life near the bone
where it is sweetest. You are defended from being a trifler. No man
loses ever on a lower level by magnanimity on a higher. Superfluous
wealth can buy superfluities only. Money is not required to buy one
necessary of the soul.

I live in the angle of a leaden wall, into whose composition was poured
a little alloy of bell-metal. Often, in the repose of my mid-day, there
reaches my ears a confused tintinnabulum from without. It is the noise
of my contemporaries. My neighbors tell me of their adventures
with famous gentlemen and ladies, what notabilities they met at the
dinner-table; but I am no more interested in such things than in the
contents of the Daily Times. The interest and the conversation are about
costume and manners chiefly; but a goose is a goose still, dress it
as you will. They tell me of California and Texas, of England and the
Indies, of the Hon. Mr.----of Georgia or of Massachusetts, all transient
and fleeting phenomena, till I am ready to leap from their court-yard
like the Mameluke bey. I delight to come to my bearings--not walk in
procession with pomp and parade, in a conspicuous place, but to walk
even with the Builder of the universe, if I may--not to live in this
restless, nervous, bustling, trivial Nineteenth Century, but stand or
sit thoughtfully while it goes by. What are men celebrating? They are
all on a committee of arrangements, and hourly expect a speech from
somebody. God is only the president of the day, and Webster is his
orator. I love to weigh, to settle, to gravitate toward that which most
strongly and rightfully attracts me--not hang by the beam of the scale
and try to weigh less--not suppose a case, but take the case that is; to
travel the only path I can, and that on which no power can resist me. It
affords me no satisfaction to commence to spring an arch before I have
got a solid foundation. Let us not play at kittly-benders. There is a
solid bottom everywhere. We read that the traveller asked the boy if
the swamp before him had a hard bottom. The boy replied that it had.
But presently the traveller's horse sank in up to the girths, and
he observed to the boy, "I thought you said that this bog had a hard
bottom." "So it has," answered the latter, "but you have not got half
way to it yet." So it is with the bogs and quicksands of society; but
he is an old boy that knows it. Only what is thought, said, or done at
a certain rare coincidence is good. I would not be one of those who will
foolishly drive a nail into mere lath and plastering; such a deed would
keep me awake nights. Give me a hammer, and let me feel for the
furring. Do not depend on the putty. Drive a nail home and clinch it so
faithfully that you can wake up in the night and think of your work with
satisfaction--a work at which you would not be ashamed to invoke the
Muse. So will help you God, and so only. Every nail driven should be as
another rivet in the machine of the universe, you carrying on the work.

Rather than love, than money, than fame, give me truth. I sat at a table
where were rich food and wine in abundance, and obsequious attendance,
but sincerity and truth were not; and I went away hungry from the
inhospitable board. The hospitality was as cold as the ices. I thought
that there was no need of ice to freeze them. They talked to me of the
age of the wine and the fame of the vintage; but I thought of an older,
a newer, and purer wine, of a more glorious vintage, which they had
not got, and could not buy. The style, the house and grounds and
"entertainment" pass for nothing with me. I called on the king, but he
made me wait in his hall, and conducted like a man incapacitated for
hospitality. There was a man in my neighborhood who lived in a hollow
tree. His manners were truly regal. I should have done better had I
called on him.

How long shall we sit in our porticoes practising idle and musty
virtues, which any work would make impertinent? As if one were to begin
the day with long-suffering, and hire a man to hoe his potatoes; and in
the afternoon go forth to practise Christian meekness and charity
with goodness aforethought! Consider the China pride and stagnant
self-complacency of mankind. This generation inclines a little to
congratulate itself on being the last of an illustrious line; and in
Boston and London and Paris and Rome, thinking of its long descent,
it speaks of its progress in art and science and literature with
satisfaction. There are the Records of the Philosophical Societies, and
the public Eulogies of Great Men! It is the good Adam contemplating his
own virtue. "Yes, we have done great deeds, and sung divine songs, which
shall never die"--that is, as long as we can remember them. The learned
societies and great men of Assyria--where are they? What youthful
philosophers and experimentalists we are! There is not one of my readers
who has yet lived a whole human life. These may be but the spring months
in the life of the race. If we have had the seven-years' itch, we have
not seen the seventeen-year locust yet in Concord. We are acquainted
with a mere pellicle of the globe on which we live. Most have not delved
six feet beneath the surface, nor leaped as many above it. We know not
where we are. Beside, we are sound asleep nearly half our time. Yet we
esteem ourselves wise, and have an established order on the surface.
Truly, we are deep thinkers, we are ambitious spirits! As I stand over
the insect crawling amid the pine needles on the forest floor, and
endeavoring to conceal itself from my sight, and ask myself why it will
cherish those humble thoughts, and bide its head from me who might,
perhaps, be its benefactor, and impart to its race some cheering
information, I am reminded of the greater Benefactor and Intelligence
that stands over me the human insect.

There is an incessant influx of novelty into the world, and yet we
tolerate incredible dulness. I need only suggest what kind of sermons
are still listened to in the most enlightened countries. There are such
words as joy and sorrow, but they are only the burden of a psalm, sung
with a nasal twang, while we believe in the ordinary and mean. We think
that we can change our clothes only. It is said that the British
Empire is very large and respectable, and that the United States are a
first-rate power. We do not believe that a tide rises and falls behind
every man which can float the British Empire like a chip, if he should
ever harbor it in his mind. Who knows what sort of seventeen-year locust
will next come out of the ground? The government of the world I live in
was not framed, like that of Britain, in after-dinner conversations over
the wine.

The life in us is like the water in the river. It may rise this year
higher than man has ever known it, and flood the parched uplands; even
this may be the eventful year, which will drown out all our muskrats. It
was not always dry land where we dwell. I see far inland the banks
which the stream anciently washed, before science began to record its
freshets. Every one has heard the story which has gone the rounds of New
England, of a strong and beautiful bug which came out of the dry leaf of
an old table of apple-tree wood, which had stood in a farmer's
kitchen for sixty years, first in Connecticut, and afterward in
Massachusetts--from an egg deposited in the living tree many years
earlier still, as appeared by counting the annual layers beyond it;
which was heard gnawing out for several weeks, hatched perchance by
the heat of an urn. Who does not feel his faith in a resurrection and
immortality strengthened by hearing of this? Who knows what beautiful
and winged life, whose egg has been buried for ages under many
concentric layers of woodenness in the dead dry life of society,
deposited at first in the alburnum of the green and living tree, which
has been gradually converted into the semblance of its well-seasoned
tomb--heard perchance gnawing out now for years by the astonished family
of man, as they sat round the festive board--may unexpectedly come forth
from amidst society's most trivial and handselled furniture, to enjoy
its perfect summer life at last!

I do not say that John or Jonathan will realize all this; but such is
the character of that morrow which mere lapse of time can never make to
dawn. The light which puts out our eyes is darkness to us. Only that day
dawns to which we are awake. There is more day to dawn. The sun is but a
morning star.




ON THE DUTY OF CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE


I heartily accept the motto,--"That government is best which governs
least"; and I should like to see it acted up to more rapidly and
systematically. Carried out, it finally amounts to this, which also I
believe,--"That government is best which governs not at all"; and when
men are prepared for it, that will be the kind of government which they
will have. Government is at best but an expedient; but most governments
are usually, and all governments are sometimes, inexpedient. The
objections which have been brought against a standing army, and they are
many and weighty, and deserve to prevail, may also at last be brought
against a standing government. The standing army is only an arm of the
standing government. The government itself, which is only the mode which
the people have chosen to execute their will, is equally liable to be
abused and perverted before the people can act through it. Witness the
present Mexican war, the work of comparatively a few individuals using
the standing government as their tool; for, in the outset, the people
would not have consented to this measure.

This American government--what is it but a tradition, though a recent
one, endeavoring to transmit itself unimpaired to posterity, but each
instant losing some of its integrity? It has not the vitality and force
of a single living man; for a single man can bend it to his will. It is
a sort of wooden gun to the people themselves. But it is not the less
necessary for this; for the people must have some complicated machinery
or other, and hear its din, to satisfy that idea of government which
they have. Governments show thus how successfully men can be imposed on,
even impose on themselves, for their own advantage. It is excellent, we
must all allow. Yet this government never of itself furthered any
enterprise, but by the alacrity with which it got out of its way. _It_
does not keep the country free. _It_ does not settle the West. _It_ does
not educate. The character inherent in the American people has done all
that has been accomplished; and it would have done somewhat more, if the
government had not sometimes got in its way. For government is an
expedient by which men would fain succeed in letting one another alone;
and, as has been said, when it is most expedient, the governed are most
let alone by it. Trade and commerce, if they were not made of India
rubber, would never manage to bounce over the obstacles which
legislators are continually putting in their way; and, if one were to
judge these men wholly by the effects of their actions, and not partly
by their intentions, they would deserve to be classed and punished with
those mischievous persons who put obstructions on the railroads.

But, to speak practically and as a citizen, unlike those who call
themselves no-government men, I ask for, not at once no government,
but _at once_ a better government. Let every man make known what kind of
government would command his respect, and that will be one step toward
obtaining it.

After all, the practical reason why, when the power is once in the hands
of the people, a majority are permitted, and for a long period continue,
to rule, is not because they are most likely to be in the right,
nor because this seems fairest to the minority, but because they are
physically the strongest. But a government in which the majority rule in
all cases cannot be based on justice, even as far as men understand
it. Can there not be a government in which majorities do not virtually
decide right and wrong, but conscience?--in which majorities decide only
those questions to which the rule of expediency is applicable? Must the
citizen ever for a moment, or in the least degree, resign his conscience
to the legislator? Why has every man a conscience, then? I think that
we should be men first, and subjects afterward. It is not desirable
to cultivate a respect for the law, so much as for the right. The only
obligation which I have a right to assume is to do at any time what
I think right. It is truly enough said that a corporation has no
conscience; but a corporation of conscientious men is a corporation
with a conscience. Law never made men a whit more just; and, by means of
their respect for it, even the well-disposed are daily made the agents
of injustice. A common and natural result of an undue respect for law
is, that you may see a file of soldiers, colonel, captain, corporal,
privates, powder-monkeys, and all, marching in admirable order over
hill and dale to the wars, against their wills, ay, against their common
sense and consciences, which makes it very steep marching indeed, and
produces a palpitation of the heart. They have no doubt that it is a
damnable business in which they are concerned; they are all peaceably
inclined. Now, what are they? Men at all? or small movable forts and
magazines, at the service of some unscrupulous man in power? Visit the
Navy Yard, and behold a marine, such a man as an American government can
make, or such as it can make a man with its black arts--a mere shadow
and reminiscence of humanity, a man laid out alive and standing, and
already, as one may say, buried under arms with funeral accompaniments,
though it may be,--

           "Not a drum was heard, not a funeral note,
               As his corse to the rampart we hurried;
            Not a soldier discharged his farewell shot
               O'er the grave where our hero we buried."

The mass of men serve the state thus, not as men mainly, but as
machines, with their bodies. They are the standing army, and the
militia, jailers, constables, posse comitatus, etc. In most cases there
is no free exercise whatever of the judgment or of the moral sense;
but they put themselves on a level with wood and earth and stones; and
wooden men can perhaps be manufactured that will serve the purpose as
well. Such command no more respect than men of straw or a lump of dirt.
They have the same sort of worth only as horses and dogs. Yet such
as these even are commonly esteemed good citizens. Others, as most
legislators, politicians, lawyers, ministers, and office-holders, serve
the state chiefly with their heads; and, as they rarely make any moral
distinctions, they are as likely to serve the devil, without _intending_
it, as God. A very few, as heroes, patriots, martyrs, reformers in the
great sense, and men, serve the state with their consciences also,
and so necessarily resist it for the most part; and they are commonly
treated as enemies by it. A wise man will only be useful as a man, and
will not submit to be "clay," and "stop a hole to keep the wind away,"
but leave that office to his dust at least:--

          "I am too high-born to be propertied,
           To be a secondary at control,
           Or useful serving-man and instrument
           To any sovereign state throughout the world."

He who gives himself entirely to his fellow-men appears to them useless
and selfish; but he who gives himself partially to them is pronounced a
benefactor and philanthropist.

How does it become a man to behave toward this American government
to-day? I answer, that he cannot without disgrace be associated with
it. I cannot for an instant recognize that political organization as _my_
government which is the _slave's_ government also.

All men recognize the right of revolution; that is, the right to refuse
allegiance to, and to resist, the government, when its tyranny or its
inefficiency are great and unendurable. But almost all say that such is
not the case now. But such was the case, they think, in the Revolution
of '75. If one were to tell me that this was a bad government because
it taxed certain foreign commodities brought to its ports, it is most
probable that I should not make an ado about it, for I can do without
them. All machines have their friction; and possibly this does enough
good to counterbalance the evil. At any rate, it is a great evil to make
a stir about it. But when the friction comes to have its machine, and
oppression and robbery are organized, I say, let us not have such a
machine any longer. In other words, when a sixth of the population of a
nation which has undertaken to be the refuge of liberty are slaves, and
a whole country is unjustly overrun and conquered by a foreign army, and
subjected to military law, I think that it is not too soon for honest
men to rebel and revolutionize. What makes this duty the more urgent
is the fact that the country so overrun is not our own, but ours is the
invading army.

Paley, a common authority with many on moral questions, in his chapter
on the "Duty of Submission to Civil Government," resolves all civil
obligation into expediency; and he proceeds to say that "so long as
the interest of the whole society requires it, that is, so long as the
established government cannot be resisted or changed without public
inconveniency, it is the will of God... that the established government
be obeyed, and no longer.... This principle being admitted, the justice
of every particular case of resistance is reduced to a computation of
the quantity of the danger and grievance on the one side, and of the
probability and expense of redressing it on the other." Of this, he
says, every man shall judge for himself. But Paley appears never to have
contemplated those cases to which the rule of expediency does not apply,
in which a people, as well as an individual, must do justice, cost what
it may. If I have unjustly wrested a plank from a drowning man, I must
restore it to him though I drown myself. This, according to Paley, would
be inconvenient. But he that would save his life, in such a case, shall
lose it. This people must cease to hold slaves, and to make war on
Mexico, though it cost them their existence as a people.

In their practice, nations agree with Paley; but does any one think that
Massachusetts does exactly what is right at the present crisis?

  "A drab of state, a cloth-o'-silver slut,
    To have her train borne up, and her soul trail in the dirt."

Practically speaking, the opponents to a reform in Massachusetts are
not a hundred thousand politicians at the South, but a hundred thousand
merchants and farmers here, who are more interested in commerce and
agriculture than they are in humanity, and are not prepared to do
justice to the slave and to Mexico, _cost what it may_. I quarrel not with
far-off foes, but with those who, near at home, co-operate with, and
do the bidding of those far away, and without whom the latter would be
harmless. We are accustomed to say, that the mass of men are unprepared;
but improvement is slow, because the few are not materially wiser or
better than the many. It is not so important that many should be as good
as you, as that there be some absolute goodness somewhere; for that will
leaven the whole lump. There are thousands who are _in opinion_ opposed
to slavery and to the war, who yet in effect do nothing to put an end to
them; who, esteeming themselves children of Washington and Franklin, sit
down with their hands in their pockets, and say that they know not what
to do, and do nothing; who even postpone the question of freedom to the
question of free-trade, and quietly read the prices-current along with
the latest advices from Mexico, after dinner, and, it may be, fall
asleep over them both. What is the price-current of an honest man and
patriot to-day? They hesitate, and they regret, and sometimes they
petition; but they do nothing in earnest and with effect. They will
wait, well disposed, for others to remedy the evil, that they may no
longer have it to regret. At most, they give only a cheap vote, and a
feeble countenance and Godspeed, to the right, as it goes by them. There
are nine hundred and ninety-nine patrons of virtue to one virtuous man;
but it is easier to deal with the real possessor of a thing than with
the temporary guardian of it.

All voting is a sort of gaming, like checkers or backgammon, with a
slight moral tinge to it, a playing with right and wrong, with moral
questions; and betting naturally accompanies it. The character of the
voters is not staked. I cast my vote, perchance, as I think right; but I
am not vitally concerned that that right should prevail. I am willing to
leave it to the majority. Its obligation, therefore, never exceeds that
of expediency. Even voting _for the right_ is _doing nothing_ for it. It is
only expressing to men feebly your desire that it should prevail. A
wise man will not leave the right to the mercy of chance, nor wish it to
prevail through the power of the majority. There is but little virtue in
the action of masses of men. When the majority shall at length vote for
the abolition of slavery, it will be because they are indifferent to
slavery, or because there is but little slavery left to be abolished by
their vote. _They_ will then be the only slaves. Only _his_ vote can hasten
the abolition of slavery who asserts his own freedom by his vote.

I hear of a convention to be held at Baltimore, or elsewhere, for the
selection of a candidate for the Presidency, made up chiefly of editors,
and men who are politicians by profession; but I think, what is it to
any independent, intelligent, and respectable man what decision they
may come to? Shall we not have the advantage of his wisdom and honesty,
nevertheless? Can we not count upon some independent votes? Are there
not many individuals in the country who do not attend conventions? But
no: I find that the respectable man, so called, has immediately drifted
from his position, and despairs of his country, when his country has
more reason to despair of him. He forthwith adopts one of the candidates
thus selected as the only _available_ one, thus proving that he is himself
_available_ for any purposes of the demagogue. His vote is of no more
worth than that of any unprincipled foreigner or hireling native, who
may have been bought. Oh for a man who is a _man_, and, as my neighbor
says, has a bone in his back which you cannot pass your hand through!
Our statistics are at fault: the population has been returned too large.
How many _men_ are there to a square thousand miles in this country?
Hardly one. Does not America offer any inducement for men to settle
here? The American has dwindled into an Odd Fellow--one who may be known
by the development of his organ of gregariousness, and a manifest lack
of intellect and cheerful self-reliance; whose first and chief concern,
on coming into the world, is to see that the almshouses are in good
repair; and, before yet he has lawfully donned the virile garb, to
collect a fund for the support of the widows and orphans that may be;
who, in short ventures to live only by the aid of the Mutual Insurance
company, which has promised to bury him decently.

It is not a man's duty, as a matter of course, to devote himself to the
eradication of any, even the most enormous wrong; he may still properly
have other concerns to engage him; but it is his duty, at least, to wash
his hands of it, and, if he gives it no thought longer, not to give
it practically his support. If I devote myself to other pursuits and
contemplations, I must first see, at least, that I do not pursue them
sitting upon another man's shoulders. I must get off him first, that
he may pursue his contemplations too. See what gross inconsistency is
tolerated. I have heard some of my townsmen say, "I should like to have
them order me out to help put down an insurrection of the slaves, or to
march to Mexico;--see if I would go"; and yet these very men have each,
directly by their allegiance, and so indirectly, at least, by their
money, furnished a substitute. The soldier is applauded who refuses to
serve in an unjust war by those who do not refuse to sustain the unjust
government which makes the war; is applauded by those whose own act
and authority he disregards and sets at naught; as if the state were
penitent to that degree that it hired one to scourge it while it sinned,
but not to that degree that it left off sinning for a moment. Thus,
under the name of Order and Civil Government, we are all made at last to
pay homage to and support our own meanness. After the first blush of
sin comes its indifference; and from immoral it becomes, as it were,
_un_moral, and not quite unnecessary to that life which we have made.

The broadest and most prevalent error requires the most disinterested
virtue to sustain it. The slight reproach to which the virtue of
patriotism is commonly liable, the noble are most likely to incur.
Those who, while they disapprove of the character and measures of a
government, yield to it their allegiance and support are undoubtedly
its most conscientious supporters, and so frequently the most serious
obstacles to reform. Some are petitioning the State to dissolve the
Union, to disregard the requisitions of the President. Why do they not
dissolve it themselves--the union between themselves and the State--and
refuse to pay their quota into its treasury? Do not they stand in the
same relation to the State, that the State does to the Union? And have
not the same reasons prevented the State from resisting the Union, which
have prevented them from resisting the State?

How can a man be satisfied to entertain an opinion merely, and enjoy it?
Is there any enjoyment in _it_, if his opinion is that he is aggrieved? If
you are cheated out of a single dollar by your neighbor, you do not rest
satisfied with knowing that you are cheated, or with saying that you are
cheated, or even with petitioning him to pay you your due; but you take
effectual steps at once to obtain the full amount, and see that you
are never cheated again. Action from principle--the perception and the
performance of right--changes things and relations; it is essentially
revolutionary, and does not consist wholly with anything which was.
It not only divides states and churches, it divides families; ay,
it divides the _individual_, separating the diabolical in him from the
divine.

Unjust laws exist; shall we be content to obey them, or shall we
endeavor to amend them, and obey them until we have succeeded, or shall
we transgress them at once? Men generally, under such a government
as this, think that they ought to wait until they have persuaded the
majority to alter them. They think that, if they should resist,
the remedy would be worse than the evil. But it is the fault of the
government itself that the remedy _is_ worse than the evil. _It_ makes it
worse. Why is it not more apt to anticipate and provide for reform? Why
does it not cherish its wise minority? Why does it cry and resist before
it is hurt? Why does it not encourage its citizens to be on the alert to
point out its faults, and _do_ better than it would have them? Why does
it always crucify Christ, and excommunicate Copernicus and Luther, and
pronounce Washington and Franklin rebels?

One would think, that a deliberate and practical denial of its authority
was the only offence never contemplated by government; else, why has it
not assigned its definite, its suitable and proportionate, penalty? If a
man who has no property refuses but once to earn nine shillings for
the State, he is put in prison for a period unlimited by any law that
I know, and determined only by the discretion of those who placed him
there; but if he should steal ninety times nine shillings from the
State, he is soon permitted to go at large again.

If the injustice is part of the necessary friction of the machine
of government, let it go, let it go; perchance it will wear
smooth--certainly the machine will wear out. If the injustice has a
spring, or a pulley, or a rope, or a crank, exclusively for itself, then
perhaps you may consider whether the remedy will not be worse than the
evil; but if it is of such a nature that it requires you to be the agent
of injustice to another, then, I say, break the law. Let your life be
a counter friction to stop the machine. What I have to do is to see, at
any rate, that I do not lend myself to the wrong which I condemn.

As for adopting the ways which the State has provided for remedying the
evil, I know not of such ways. They take too much time, and a man's life
will be gone. I have other affairs to attend to. I came into this world,
not chiefly to make this a good place to live in, but to live in it,
be it good or bad. A man has not everything to do, but something; and
because he cannot do _everything_, it is not necessary that he should do
_something_ wrong. It is not my business to be petitioning the Governor or
the Legislature any more than it is theirs to petition me; and if they
should not hear my petition, what should I do then? But in this case the
State has provided no way; its very Constitution is the evil. This may
seem to be harsh and stubborn and unconciliatory; but it is to treat
with the utmost kindness and consideration the only spirit that can
appreciate or deserves it. So is any change for the better, like birth
and death which convulse the body.

I do not hesitate to say, that those who call themselves Abolitionists
should at once effectually withdraw their support, both in person and
property, from the government of Massachusetts, and not wait till they
constitute a majority of one, before they suffer the right to prevail
through them. I think that it is enough if they have God on their side,
without waiting for that other one. Moreover, any man more right than
his neighbors constitutes a majority of one already.

I meet this American government, or its representative, the State
government, directly, and face to face, once a year--no more--in
the person of its tax-gatherer; this is the only mode in which a man
situated as I am necessarily meets it; and it then says distinctly,
Recognize me; and the simplest, the most effectual, and, in the present
posture of affairs, the indispensablest mode of treating with it on this
head, of expressing your little satisfaction with and love for it, is
to deny it then. My civil neighbor, the tax-gatherer, is the very man I
have to deal with--for it is, after all, with men and not with parchment
that I quarrel--and he has voluntarily chosen to be an agent of the
government. How shall he ever know well what he is and does as an
officer of the government, or as a man, until he is obliged to consider
whether he shall treat me, his neighbor, for whom he has respect, as
a neighbor and well-disposed man, or as a maniac and disturber of the
peace, and see if he can get over this obstruction to his neighborliness
without a ruder and more impetuous thought or speech corresponding with
his action? I know this well, that if one thousand, if one hundred, if
ten men whom I could name--if ten _honest_ men only--ay, if _one_ HONEST
man, in this State of Massachusetts, _ceasing to hold slaves_, were
actually to withdraw from this copartnership, and be locked up in the
county jail therefor, it would be the abolition of slavery in America.
For it matters not how small the beginning may seem to be: what is once
well done is done forever. But we love better to talk about it: that
we say is our mission. Reform keeps many scores of newspapers in
its service, but not one man. If my esteemed neighbor, the State's
ambassador, who will devote his days to the settlement of the question
of human rights in the Council Chamber, instead of being threatened with
the prisons of Carolina, were to sit down the prisoner of Massachusetts,
that State which is so anxious to foist the sin of slavery upon her
sister--though at present she can discover only an act of inhospitality
to be the ground of a quarrel with her--the Legislature would not wholly
waive the subject the following winter.

Under a government which imprisons any unjustly, the true place for a
just man is also a prison. The proper place to-day, the only place which
Massachusetts has provided for her freer and less desponding spirits,
is in her prisons, to be put out and locked out of the State by her own
act, as they have already put themselves out by their principles. It is
there that the fugitive slave, and the Mexican prisoner on parole, and
the Indian come to plead the wrongs of his race, should find them;
on that separate, but more free and honorable ground, where the State
places those who are not _with_ her, but _against_ her--the only house in a
slave State in which a free man can abide with honor. If any think that
their influence would be lost there, and their voices no longer afflict
the ear of the State, that they would not be as an enemy within its
walls, they do not know by how much truth is stronger than error, nor
how much more eloquently and effectively he can combat injustice who
has experienced a little in his own person. Cast your whole vote, not a
strip of paper merely, but your whole influence. A minority is powerless
while it conforms to the majority; it is not even a minority then; but
it is irresistible when it clogs by its whole weight. If the alternative
is to keep all just men in prison, or give up war and slavery, the State
will not hesitate which to choose. If a thousand men were not to pay
their tax-bills this year, that would not be a violent and bloody
measure, as it would be to pay them, and enable the State to commit
violence and shed innocent blood. This is, in fact, the definition of a
peaceable revolution, if any such is possible. If the tax-gatherer, or
any other public officer, asks me, as one has done, "But what shall
I do?" my answer is, "If you really wish to do anything, resign your
office." When the subject has refused allegiance, and the officer has
resigned his office, then the revolution is accomplished. But even
suppose blood should flow. Is there not a sort of blood shed when the
conscience is wounded? Through this wound a man's real manhood and
immortality flow out, and he bleeds to an everlasting death. I see this
blood flowing now.

I have contemplated the imprisonment of the offender, rather than the
seizure of his goods--though both will serve the same purpose--because
they who assert the purest right, and consequently are most dangerous
to a corrupt State, commonly have not spent much time in accumulating
property. To such the State renders comparatively small service, and
a slight tax is wont to appear exorbitant, particularly if they are
obliged to earn it by special labor with their hands. If there were
one who lived wholly without the use of money, the State itself
would hesitate to demand it of him. But the rich man--not to make any
invidious comparison--is always sold to the institution which makes him
rich. Absolutely speaking, the more money, the less virtue; for money
comes between a man and his objects, and obtains them for him; and
it was certainly no great virtue to obtain it. It puts to rest many
questions which he would otherwise be taxed to answer; while the only
new question which it puts is the hard but superfluous one, how to
spend it. Thus his moral ground is taken from under his feet. The
opportunities of living are diminished in proportion as what are called
the "means" are increased. The best thing a man can do for his culture
when he is rich is to endeavor to carry out those schemes which he
entertained when he was poor. Christ answered the Herodians according to
their condition. "Show me the tribute-money," said he;--and one took a
penny out of his pocket;--if you use money which has the image of Cæsar
on it, and which he has made current and valuable, that is, _if you
are men of the State_, and gladly enjoy the advantages of Cæsar's
government, then pay him back some of his own when he demands it;
"Render therefore to Cæsar that which is Cæsar's, and to God those
things which are God's"--leaving them no wiser than before as to which
was which; for they did not wish to know.

When I converse with the freest of my neighbors, I perceive that,
whatever they may say about the magnitude and seriousness of the
question, and their regard for the public tranquillity, the long and
the short of the matter is, that they cannot spare the protection of the
existing government, and they dread the consequences to their property
and families of disobedience to it. For my own part, I should not like
to think that I ever rely on the protection of the State. But, if I deny
the authority of the State when it presents its tax-bill, it will soon
take and waste all my property, and so harass me and my children without
end. This is hard. This makes it impossible for a man to live honestly,
and at the same time comfortably in outward respects. It will not be
worth the while to accumulate property; that would be sure to go again.
You must hire or squat somewhere, and raise but a small crop, and eat
that soon. You must live within yourself, and depend upon yourself
always tucked up and ready for a start, and not have many affairs. A
man may grow rich in Turkey even, if he will be in all respects a
good subject of the Turkish government. Confucius said, "If a state is
governed by the principles of reason, poverty and misery are subjects
of shame; if a state is not governed by the principles of reason, riches
and honors are the subjects of shame." No: until I want the protection
of Massachusetts to be extended to me in some distant Southern port,
where my liberty is endangered, or until I am bent solely on building
up an estate at home by peaceful enterprise, I can afford to refuse
allegiance to Massachusetts, and her right to my property and life. It
costs me less in every sense to incur the penalty of disobedience to the
State than it would to obey. I should feel as if I were worth less in
that case.

Some years ago, the State met me in behalf of the Church, and commanded
me to pay a certain sum toward the support of a clergyman whose
preaching my father attended, but never I myself. "Pay," it said, "or be
locked up in the jail." I declined to pay. But, unfortunately, another
man saw fit to pay it. I did not see why the schoolmaster should be
taxed to support the priest, and not the priest the schoolmaster: for
I was not the State's schoolmaster, but I supported myself by voluntary
subscription. I did not see why the lyceum should not present its
tax-bill, and have the State to back its demand, as well as the Church.
However, at the request of the selectmen, I condescended to make some
such statement as this in writing:--"Know all men by these presents,
that I, Henry Thoreau, do not wish to be regarded as a member of any
incorporated society which I have not joined." This I gave to the town
clerk; and he has it. The State, having thus learned that I did not wish
to be regarded as a member of that church, has never made a like
demand on me since; though it said that it must adhere to its original
presumption that time. If I had known how to name them, I should then
have signed off in detail from all the societies which I never signed on
to; but I did not know where to find a complete list.

I have paid no poll-tax for six years. I was put into a jail once on
this account, for one night; and, as I stood considering the walls of
solid stone, two or three feet thick, the door of wood and iron, a foot
thick, and the iron grating which strained the light, I could not help
being struck with the foolishness of that institution which treated me
as if I were mere flesh and blood and bones, to be locked up. I wondered
that it should have concluded at length that this was the best use it
could put me to, and had never thought to avail itself of my services
in some way. I saw that, if there was a wall of stone between me and
my townsmen, there was a still more difficult one to climb or break
through, before they could get to be as free as I was. I did not for a
moment feel confined, and the walls seemed a great waste of stone and
mortar. I felt as if I alone of all my townsmen had paid my tax. They
plainly did not know how to treat me, but behaved like persons who are
underbred. In every threat and in every compliment there was a blunder;
for they thought that my chief desire was to stand the other side of
that stone wall. I could not but smile to see how industriously they
locked the door on my meditations, which followed them out again without
let or hindrance, and _they_ were really all that was dangerous. As they
could not reach me, they had resolved to punish my body; just as boys,
if they cannot come at some person against whom they have a spite, will
abuse his dog. I saw that the State was half-witted, that it was timid
as a lone woman with her silver spoons, and that it did not know its
friends from its foes, and I lost all my remaining respect for it, and
pitied it.

Thus the State never intentionally confronts a man's sense, intellectual
or moral, but only his body, his senses. It is not armed with superior
wit or honesty, but with superior physical strength. I was not born to
be forced. I will breathe after my own fashion. Let us see who is the
strongest. What force has a multitude? They only can force me who obey a
higher law than I. They force me to become like themselves. I do not
hear of _men_ being _forced_ to have this way or that by masses of men.
What sort of life were that to live? When I meet a government which says
to me, "Your money or your life," why should I be in haste to give it my
money? It may be in a great strait, and not know what to do: I cannot
help that. It must help itself; do as I do. It is not worth the while to
snivel about it. I am not responsible for the successful working of the
machinery of society. I am not the son of the engineer. I perceive that,
when an acorn and a chestnut fall side by side, the one does not remain
inert to make way for the other, but both obey their own laws, and
spring and grow and flourish as best they can, till one, perchance,
overshadows and destroys the other. If a plant cannot live according to
its nature, it dies; and so a man.

The night in prison was novel and interesting enough. The prisoners
in their shirt-sleeves were enjoying a chat and the evening air in the
doorway, when I entered. But the jailer said, "Come, boys, it is time
to lock up"; and so they dispersed, and I heard the sound of their steps
returning into the hollow apartments. My room-mate was introduced to me
by the jailer as "a first-rate fellow and a clever man." When the
door was locked, he showed me where to hang my hat, and how he managed
matters there. The rooms were whitewashed once a month; and this one, at
least, was the whitest, most simply furnished, and probably the neatest
apartment in the town. He naturally wanted to know where I came from,
and what brought me there; and, when I had told him, I asked him in my
turn how he came there, presuming him to be an honest man, of course;
and, as the world goes, I believe he was. "Why," said he, "they accuse
me of burning a barn; but I never did it." As near as I could discover,
he had probably gone to bed in a barn when drunk, and smoked his pipe
there; and so a barn was burnt. He had the reputation of being a clever
man, had been there some three months waiting for his trial to come on,
and would have to wait as much longer; but he was quite domesticated and
contented, since he got his board for nothing, and thought that he was
well treated.

He occupied one window, and I the other; and I saw that if one stayed
there long, his principal business would be to look out the window. I
had soon read all the tracts that were left there, and examined where
former prisoners had broken out, and where a grate had been sawed off,
and heard the history of the various occupants of that room; for I found
that even here there was a history and a gossip which never circulated
beyond the walls of the jail. Probably this is the only house in
the town where verses are composed, which are afterward printed in
a circular form, but not published. I was shown quite a long list of
verses which were composed by some young men who had been detected in an
attempt to escape, who avenged themselves by singing them.

I pumped my fellow-prisoner as dry as I could, for fear I should never
see him again; but at length he showed me which was my bed, and left me
to blow out the lamp.

It was like travelling into a far country, such as I had never expected
to behold, to lie there for one night. It seemed to me that I never
had heard the town-clock strike before, nor the evening sounds of the
village; for we slept with the windows open, which were inside the
grating. It was to see my native village in the light of the Middle
Ages, and our Concord was turned into a Rhine stream, and visions
of knights and castles passed before me. They were the voices of old
burghers that I heard in the streets. I was an involuntary spectator
and auditor of whatever was done and said in the kitchen of the adjacent
village-inn--a wholly new and rare experience to me. It was a closer
view of my native town. I was fairly inside of it. I never had seen its
institutions before. This is one of its peculiar institutions; for it is
a shire town. I began to comprehend what its inhabitants were about.

In the morning, our breakfasts were put through the hole in the door,
in small oblong-square tin pans, made to fit, and holding a pint of
chocolate, with brown bread, and an iron spoon. When they called for the
vessels again, I was green enough to return what bread I had left; but
my comrade seized it, and said that I should lay that up for lunch or
dinner. Soon after he was let out to work at haying in a neighboring
field, whither he went every day, and would not be back till noon; so he
bade me good-day, saying that he doubted if he should see me again.

When I came out of prison--for some one interfered, and paid that tax--I
did not perceive that great changes had taken place on the common,
such as he observed who went in a youth and emerged a tottering
and gray-headed man; and yet a change had to my eyes come over the
scene--the town, and State, and country--greater than any that mere time
could effect. I saw yet more distinctly the State in which I lived. I
saw to what extent the people among whom I lived could be trusted as
good neighbors and friends; that their friendship was for summer weather
only; that they did not greatly propose to do right; that they were
a distinct race from me by their prejudices and superstitions, as the
Chinamen and Malays are; that in their sacrifices to humanity, they ran
no risks, not even to their property; that after all they were not so
noble but they treated the thief as he had treated them, and hoped, by
a certain outward observance and a few prayers, and by walking in a
particular straight though useless path from time to time, to save their
souls. This may be to judge my neighbors harshly; for I believe that
many of them are not aware that they have such an institution as the
jail in their village.

It was formerly the custom in our village, when a poor debtor came out
of jail, for his acquaintances to salute him, looking through their
fingers, which were crossed to represent the grating of a jail window,
"How do ye do?" My neighbors did not thus salute me, but first looked at
me, and then at one another, as if I had returned from a long journey. I
was put into jail as I was going to the shoemaker's to get a shoe which
was mended. When I was let out the next morning, I proceeded to finish
my errand, and, having put on my mended shoe, joined a huckleberry
party, who were impatient to put themselves under my conduct; and in
half an hour--for the horse was soon tackled--was in the midst of a
huckleberry field, on one of our highest hills, two miles off, and then
the State was nowhere to be seen.

This is the whole history of "My Prisons."

       *       *       *       *       *

I have never declined paying the highway tax, because I am as desirous
of being a good neighbor as I am of being a bad subject; and as for
supporting schools, I am doing my part to educate my fellow-countrymen
now. It is for no particular item in the tax-bill that I refuse to pay
it. I simply wish to refuse allegiance to the State, to withdraw and
stand aloof from it effectually. I do not care to trace the course of
my dollar, if I could, till it buys a man or a musket to shoot one
with--the dollar is innocent--but I am concerned to trace the effects of
my allegiance. In fact, I quietly declare war with the State, after my
fashion, though I will still make what use and get what advantage of her
I can, as is usual in such cases.

If others pay the tax which is demanded of me, from a sympathy with the
State, they do but what they have already done in their own case, or
rather they abet injustice to a greater extent than the State requires.
If they pay the tax from a mistaken interest in the individual taxed, to
save his property, or prevent his going to jail, it is because they have
not considered wisely how far they let their private feelings interfere
with the public good.

This, then, is my position at present. But one cannot be too much on his
guard in such a case, lest his action be biased by obstinacy or an
undue regard for the opinions of men. Let him see that he does only what
belongs to himself and to the hour.

I think sometimes, Why, this people mean well; they are only ignorant;
they would do better if they knew how: why give your neighbors this pain
to treat you as they are not inclined to? But I think, again, This is
no reason why I should do as they do, or permit others to suffer much
greater pain of a different kind. Again, I sometimes say to myself, When
many millions of men, without heat, without ill-will, without personal
feeling of any kind, demand of you a few shillings only, without the
possibility, such is their constitution, of retracting or altering their
present demand, and without the possibility, on your side, of appeal
to any other millions, why expose yourself to this overwhelming brute
force? You do not resist cold and hunger, the winds and the waves, thus
obstinately; you quietly submit to a thousand similar necessities. You
do not put your head into the fire. But just in proportion as I regard
this as not wholly a brute force, but partly a human force, and consider
that I have relations to those millions as to so many millions of
men, and not of mere brute or inanimate things, I see that appeal is
possible, first and instantaneously, from them to the Maker of
them, and, secondly, from them to themselves. But, if I put my head
deliberately into the fire, there is no appeal to fire or to the Maker
of fire, and I have only myself to blame. If I could convince myself
that I have any right to be satisfied with men as they are, and to
treat them accordingly, and not according, in some respects, to my
requisitions and expectations of what they and I ought to be, then, like
a good Mussulman and fatalist, I should endeavor to be satisfied with
things as they are, and say it is the will of God. And, above all, there
is this difference between resisting this and a purely brute or natural
force, that I can resist this with some effect; but I cannot expect,
like Orpheus, to change the nature of the rocks and trees and beasts.

I do not wish to quarrel with any man or nation. I do not wish to split
hairs, to make fine distinctions, or set myself up as better than my
neighbors. I seek rather, I may say, even an excuse for conforming to
the laws of the land. I am but too ready to conform to them. Indeed,
I have reason to suspect myself on this head; and each year, as the
tax-gatherer comes round, I find myself disposed to review the acts and
position of the general and State governments, and the spirit of the
people, to discover a pretext for conformity.

            "We must affect our country as our parents,
             And if at any time we alienate
             Our love or industry from doing it honor,
             We must respect effects and teach the soul
             Matter of conscience and religion,
             And not desire of rule or benefit."

I believe that the State will soon be able to take all my work of this
sort out of my hands, and then I shall be no better a patriot than my
fellow-countrymen. Seen from a lower point of view, the Constitution,
with all its faults, is very good; the law and the courts are very
respectable; even this State and this American government are, in many
respects, very admirable and rare things, to be thankful for, such as a
great many have described them; but seen from a point of view a little
higher, they are what I have described them; seen from a higher still,
and the highest, who shall say what they are, or that they are worth
looking at or thinking of at all?

However, the government does not concern me much, and I shall bestow the
fewest possible thoughts on it. It is not many moments that I live under
a government, even in this world. If a man is thought-free, fancy-free,
imagination-free, that which _is not_ never for a long time appearing _to
be_ to him, unwise rulers or reformers cannot fatally interrupt him.

I know that most men think differently from myself; but those whose
lives are by profession devoted to the study of these or kindred
subjects, content me as little as any. Statesmen and legislators,
standing so completely within the institution, never distinctly
and nakedly behold it. They speak of moving society, but have no
resting-place without it. They may be men of a certain experience and
discrimination, and have no doubt invented ingenious and even useful
systems, for which we sincerely thank them; but all their wit and
usefulness lie within certain not very wide limits. They are wont to
forget that the world is not governed by policy and expediency. Webster
never goes behind government, and so cannot speak with authority
about it. His words are wisdom to those legislators who contemplate no
essential reform in the existing government; but for thinkers, and those
who legislate for all time, he never once glances at the subject. I know
of those whose serene and wise speculations on this theme would soon
reveal the limits of his mind's range and hospitality. Yet, compared
with the cheap professions of most reformers, and the still cheaper
wisdom and eloquence of politicians in general, his are almost the only
sensible and valuable words, and we thank Heaven for him. Comparatively,
he is always strong, original, and, above all, practical. Still, his
quality is not wisdom, but prudence. The lawyer's truth is not truth,
but consistency or a consistent expediency. Truth is always in harmony
with herself, and is not concerned chiefly to reveal the justice that
may consist with wrong-doing. He well deserves to be called, as he has
been called, the Defender of the Constitution. There are really no
blows to be given by him but defensive ones. He is not a leader, but a
follower. His leaders are the men of '87. "I have never made an effort,"
he says, "and never propose to make an effort; I have never countenanced
an effort, and never mean to countenance an effort, to disturb the
arrangement as originally made, by which the various States came into
the Union." Still thinking of the sanction which the Constitution gives
to slavery, he says, "Because it was a part of the original compact--let
it stand." Notwithstanding his special acuteness and ability, he is
unable to take a fact out of its merely political relations, and behold
it as it lies absolutely to be disposed of by the intellect--what, for
instance, it behooves a man to do here in America to-day with regard to
slavery, but ventures, or is driven, to make some such desperate answer
as the following, while professing to speak absolutely, and as a private
man--from which what new and singular code of social duties might be
inferred? "The manner," says he, "in which the governments of those
States where slavery exists are to regulate it is for their own
consideration, under their responsibility to their constituents, to
the general laws of propriety, humanity, and justice, and to God.
Associations formed elsewhere, springing from a feeling of humanity, or
any other cause, have nothing whatever to do with it. They have never
received any encouragement from me, and they never will."

They who know of no purer sources of truth, who have traced up its
stream no higher, stand, and wisely stand, by the Bible and the
Constitution, and drink at it there with reverence and humility; but
they who behold where it comes trickling into this lake or that pool,
gird up their loins once more, and continue their pilgrimage toward its
fountain-head.

No man with a genius for legislation has appeared in America. They are
rare in the history of the world. There are orators, politicians, and
eloquent men, by the thousand; but the speaker has not yet opened his
mouth to speak who is capable of settling the much-vexed questions of
the day. We love eloquence for its own sake, and not for any truth which
it may utter, or any heroism it may inspire. Our legislators have not
yet learned the comparative value of free-trade and of freedom, of
union, and of rectitude, to a nation. They have no genius or talent for
comparatively humble questions of taxation and finance, commerce and
manufacturers and agriculture. If we were left solely to the wordy
wit of legislators in Congress for our guidance, uncorrected by the
seasonable experience and the effectual complaints of the people,
America would not long retain her rank among the nations. For eighteen
hundred years, though perchance I have no right to say it, the New
Testament has been written; yet where is the legislator who has wisdom
and practical talent enough to avail himself of the light which it sheds
on the science of legislation?

The authority of government, even such as I am willing to submit to--for
I will cheerfully obey those who know and can do better than I, and in
many things even those who neither know nor can do so well--is still an
impure one: to be strictly just, it must have the sanction and consent
of the governed. It can have no pure right over my person and property
but what I concede to it. The progress from an absolute to a limited
monarchy, from a limited monarchy to a democracy, is a progress toward
a true respect for the individual. Even the Chinese philosopher was
wise enough to regard the individual as the basis of the empire. Is
a democracy, such as we know it, the last improvement possible
in government? Is it not possible to take a step further towards
recognizing and organizing the rights of man? There will never be a
really free and enlightened State until the State comes to recognize
the individual as a higher and independent power, from which all its own
power and authority are derived, and treats him accordingly. I please
myself with imagining a State at least which can afford to be just to
all men, and to treat the individual with respect as a neighbor; which
even would not think it inconsistent with its own repose if a few were
to live aloof from it, not meddling with it, nor embraced by it, who
fulfilled all the duties of neighbors and fellow-men. A State which bore
this kind of fruit, and suffered it to drop off as fast as it ripened,
would prepare the way for a still more perfect and glorious State, which
also I have imagined, but not yet anywhere seen.



 On the Duty of Civil Disobedience

 by Henry David Thoreau


 1849, original title: Resistance to Civil Government



I heartily accept the motto,—“That government is best which governs
least;” and I should like to see it acted up to more rapidly and
systematically. Carried out, it finally amounts to this, which also I
believe—“That government is best which governs not at all;” and when
men are prepared for it, that will be the kind of government which they
will have. Government is at best but an expedient; but most governments
are usually, and all governments are sometimes, inexpedient. The
objections which have been brought against a standing army, and they
are many and weighty, and deserve to prevail, may also at last be
brought against a standing government. The standing army is only an arm
of the standing government. The government itself, which is only the
mode which the people have chosen to execute their will, is equally
liable to be abused and perverted before the people can act through it.
Witness the present Mexican war, the work of comparatively a few
individuals using the standing government as their tool; for, in the
outset, the people would not have consented to this measure.

This American government,—what is it but a tradition, though a recent
one, endeavoring to transmit itself unimpaired to posterity, but each
instant losing some of its integrity? It has not the vitality and force
of a single living man; for a single man can bend it to his will. It is
a sort of wooden gun to the people themselves; and, if ever they should
use it in earnest as a real one against each other, it will surely
split. But it is not the less necessary for this; for the people must
have some complicated machinery or other, and hear its din, to satisfy
that idea of government which they have. Governments show thus how
successfully men can be imposed on, even impose on themselves, for
their own advantage. It is excellent, we must all allow; yet this
government never of itself furthered any enterprise, but by the
alacrity with which it got out of its way. _It_ does not keep the
country free. _It_ does not settle the West. _It_ does not educate. The
character inherent in the American people has done all that has been
accomplished; and it would have done somewhat more, if the government
had not sometimes got in its way. For government is an expedient, by
which men would fain succeed in letting one another alone; and, as has
been said, when it is most expedient, the governed are most let alone
by it. Trade and commerce, if they were not made of India rubber, would
never manage to bounce over obstacles which legislators are continually
putting in their way; and, if one were to judge these men wholly by the
effects of their actions, and not partly by their intentions, they
would deserve to be classed and punished with those mischievous persons
who put obstructions on the railroads.

But, to speak practically and as a citizen, unlike those who call
themselves no-government men, I ask for, not at once no government, but
_at once_ a better government. Let every man make known what kind of
government would command his respect, and that will be one step toward
obtaining it.

After all, the practical reason why, when the power is once in the
hands of the people, a majority are permitted, and for a long period
continue, to rule, is not because they are most likely to be in the
right, nor because this seems fairest to the minority, but because they
are physically the strongest. But a government in which the majority
rule in all cases can not be based on justice, even as far as men
understand it. Can there not be a government in which the majorities do
not virtually decide right and wrong, but conscience?—in which
majorities decide only those questions to which the rule of expediency
is applicable? Must the citizen ever for a moment, or in the least
degree, resign his conscience to the legislator? Why has every man a
conscience, then? I think that we should be men first, and subjects
afterward. It is not desirable to cultivate a respect for the law, so
much as for the right. The only obligation which I have a right to
assume, is to do at any time what I think right. It is truly enough
said that a corporation has no conscience; but a corporation of
conscientious men is a corporation _with_ a conscience. Law never made
men a whit more just; and, by means of their respect for it, even the
well-disposed are daily made the agents of injustice. A common and
natural result of an undue respect for the law is, that you may see a
file of soldiers, colonel, captain, corporal, privates, powder-monkeys
and all, marching in admirable order over hill and dale to the wars,
against their wills, aye, against their common sense and consciences,
which makes it very steep marching indeed, and produces a palpitation
of the heart. They have no doubt that it is a damnable business in
which they are concerned; they are all peaceably inclined. Now, what
are they? Men at all? or small movable forts and magazines, at the
service of some unscrupulous man in power? Visit the Navy Yard, and
behold a marine, such a man as an American government can make, or such
as it can make a man with its black arts, a mere shadow and
reminiscence of humanity, a man laid out alive and standing, and
already, as one may say, buried under arms with funeral accompaniment,
though it may be

  “Not a drum was heard, not a funeral note,
    As his corpse to the ramparts we hurried;
  Not a soldier discharged his farewell shot
    O’er the grave where our hero we buried.”

The mass of men serve the State thus, not as men mainly, but as
machines, with their bodies. They are the standing army, and the
militia, jailers, constables, _posse comitatus_, &c. In most cases
there is no free exercise whatever of the judgment or of the moral
sense; but they put themselves on a level with wood and earth and
stones; and wooden men can perhaps be manufactured that will serve the
purpose as well. Such command no more respect than men of straw, or a
lump of dirt. They have the same sort of worth only as horses and dogs.
Yet such as these even are commonly esteemed good citizens. Others, as
most legislators, politicians, lawyers, ministers, and office-holders,
serve the state chiefly with their heads; and, as they rarely make any
moral distinctions, they are as likely to serve the devil, without
_intending_ it, as God. A very few, as heroes, patriots, martyrs,
reformers in the great sense, and _men_, serve the State with their
consciences also, and so necessarily resist it for the most part; and
they are commonly treated by it as enemies. A wise man will only be
useful as a man, and will not submit to be “clay,” and “stop a hole to
keep the wind away,” but leave that office to his dust at least:

  “I am too high-born to be propertied,
  To be a secondary at control,
  Or useful serving-man and instrument
  To any sovereign state throughout the world.”

He who gives himself entirely to his fellow-men appears to them useless
and selfish; but he who gives himself partially to them is pronounced a
benefactor and philanthropist.

How does it become a man to behave toward the American government
today? I answer that he cannot without disgrace be associated with it.
I cannot for an instant recognize that political organization as _my_
government which is the _slave’s_ government also.

All men recognize the right of revolution; that is, the right to refuse
allegiance to and to resist the government, when its tyranny or its
inefficiency are great and unendurable. But almost all say that such is
not the case now. But such was the case, they think, in the Revolution
of ’75. If one were to tell me that this was a bad government because
it taxed certain foreign commodities brought to its ports, it is most
probable that I should not make an ado about it, for I can do without
them: all machines have their friction; and possibly this does enough
good to counter-balance the evil. At any rate, it is a great evil to
make a stir about it. But when the friction comes to have its machine,
and oppression and robbery are organized, I say, let us not have such a
machine any longer. In other words, when a sixth of the population of a
nation which has undertaken to be the refuge of liberty are slaves, and
a whole country is unjustly overrun and conquered by a foreign army,
and subjected to military law, I think that it is not too soon for
honest men to rebel and revolutionize. What makes this duty the more
urgent is that fact, that the country so overrun is not our own, but
ours is the invading army.

Paley, a common authority with many on moral questions, in his chapter
on the “Duty of Submission to Civil Government,” resolves all civil
obligation into expediency; and he proceeds to say, “that so long as
the interest of the whole society requires it, that is, so long as the
established government cannot be resisted or changed without public
inconveniency, it is the will of God that the established government be
obeyed, and no longer.”—“This principle being admitted, the justice of
every particular case of resistance is reduced to a computation of the
quantity of the danger and grievance on the one side, and of the
probability and expense of redressing it on the other.” Of this, he
says, every man shall judge for himself. But Paley appears never to
have contemplated those cases to which the rule of expediency does not
apply, in which a people, as well as an individual, must do justice,
cost what it may. If I have unjustly wrested a plank from a drowning
man, I must restore it to him though I drown myself. This, according to
Paley, would be inconvenient. But he that would save his life, in such
a case, shall lose it. This people must cease to hold slaves, and to
make war on Mexico, though it cost them their existence as a people.

In their practice, nations agree with Paley; but does anyone think that
Massachusetts does exactly what is right at the present crisis?

  “A drab of state, a cloth-o’-silver slut,
  To have her train borne up, and her soul trail in the dirt.”

Practically speaking, the opponents to a reform in Massachusetts are
not a hundred thousand politicians at the South, but a hundred thousand
merchants and farmers here, who are more interested in commerce and
agriculture than they are in humanity, and are not prepared to do
justice to the slave and to Mexico, _cost what it may_. I quarrel not
with far-off foes, but with those who, near at home, co-operate with,
and do the bidding of those far away, and without whom the latter would
be harmless. We are accustomed to say, that the mass of men are
unprepared; but improvement is slow, because the few are not materially
wiser or better than the many. It is not so important that many should
be as good as you, as that there be some absolute goodness somewhere;
for that will leaven the whole lump. There are thousands who are _in
opinion_ opposed to slavery and to the war, who yet in effect do
nothing to put an end to them; who, esteeming themselves children of
Washington and Franklin, sit down with their hands in their pockets,
and say that they know not what to do, and do nothing; who even
postpone the question of freedom to the question of free-trade, and
quietly read the prices-current along with the latest advices from
Mexico, after dinner, and, it may be, fall asleep over them both. What
is the price-current of an honest man and patriot today? They hesitate,
and they regret, and sometimes they petition; but they do nothing in
earnest and with effect. They will wait, well disposed, for others to
remedy the evil, that they may no longer have it to regret. At most,
they give only a cheap vote, and a feeble countenance and Godspeed, to
the right, as it goes by them. There are nine hundred and ninety-nine
patrons of virtue to one virtuous man; but it is easier to deal with
the real possessor of a thing than with the temporary guardian of it.

All voting is a sort of gaming, like chequers or backgammon, with a
slight moral tinge to it, a playing with right and wrong, with moral
questions; and betting naturally accompanies it. The character of the
voters is not staked. I cast my vote, perchance, as I think right; but
I am not vitally concerned that that right should prevail. I am willing
to leave it to the majority. Its obligation, therefore, never exceeds
that of expediency. Even voting _for the right_ is _doing_ nothing for
it. It is only expressing to men feebly your desire that it should
prevail. A wise man will not leave the right to the mercy of chance,
nor wish it to prevail through the power of the majority. There is but
little virtue in the action of masses of men. When the majority shall
at length vote for the abolition of slavery, it will be because they
are indifferent to slavery, or because there is but little slavery left
to be abolished by their vote. _They_ will then be the only slaves.
Only _his_ vote can hasten the abolition of slavery who asserts his own
freedom by his vote.

I hear of a convention to be held at Baltimore, or elsewhere, for the
selection of a candidate for the Presidency, made up chiefly of
editors, and men who are politicians by profession; but I think, what
is it to any independent, intelligent, and respectable man what
decision they may come to, shall we not have the advantage of his
wisdom and honesty, nevertheless? Can we not count upon some
independent votes? Are there not many individuals in the country who do
not attend conventions? But no: I find that the respectable man, so
called, has immediately drifted from his position, and despairs of his
country, when his country has more reasons to despair of him. He
forthwith adopts one of the candidates thus selected as the only
_available_ one, thus proving that he is himself _available_ for any
purposes of the demagogue. His vote is of no more worth than that of
any unprincipled foreigner or hireling native, who may have been
bought. Oh for a man who is a _man_, and, as my neighbor says, has a
bone in his back which you cannot pass your hand through! Our
statistics are at fault: the population has been returned too large.
How many _men_ are there to a square thousand miles in the country?
Hardly one. Does not America offer any inducement for men to settle
here? The American has dwindled into an Odd Fellow,—one who may be
known by the development of his organ of gregariousness, and a manifest
lack of intellect and cheerful self-reliance; whose first and chief
concern, on coming into the world, is to see that the alms-houses are
in good repair; and, before yet he has lawfully donned the virile garb,
to collect a fund for the support of the widows and orphans that may
be; who, in short, ventures to live only by the aid of the Mutual
Insurance company, which has promised to bury him decently.

It is not a man’s duty, as a matter of course, to devote himself to the
eradication of any, even the most enormous wrong; he may still properly
have other concerns to engage him; but it is his duty, at least, to
wash his hands of it, and, if he gives it no thought longer, not to
give it practically his support. If I devote myself to other pursuits
and contemplations, I must first see, at least, that I do not pursue
them sitting upon another man’s shoulders. I must get off him first,
that he may pursue his contemplations too. See what gross inconsistency
is tolerated. I have heard some of my townsmen say, “I should like to
have them order me out to help put down an insurrection of the slaves,
or to march to Mexico,—see if I would go;” and yet these very men have
each, directly by their allegiance, and so indirectly, at least, by
their money, furnished a substitute. The soldier is applauded who
refuses to serve in an unjust war by those who do not refuse to sustain
the unjust government which makes the war; is applauded by those whose
own act and authority he disregards and sets at naught; as if the State
were penitent to that degree that it hired one to scourge it while it
sinned, but not to that degree that it left off sinning for a moment.
Thus, under the name of Order and Civil Government, we are all made at
last to pay homage to and support our own meanness. After the first
blush of sin, comes its indifference; and from immoral it becomes, as
it were, _un_moral, and not quite unnecessary to that life which we
have made.

The broadest and most prevalent error requires the most disinterested
virtue to sustain it. The slight reproach to which the virtue of
patriotism is commonly liable, the noble are most likely to incur.
Those who, while they disapprove of the character and measures of a
government, yield to it their allegiance and support, are undoubtedly
its most conscientious supporters, and so frequently the most serious
obstacles to reform. Some are petitioning the State to dissolve the
Union, to disregard the requisitions of the President. Why do they not
dissolve it themselves,—the union between themselves and the State,—and
refuse to pay their quota into its treasury? Do not they stand in same
relation to the State, that the State does to the Union? And have not
the same reasons prevented the State from resisting the Union, which
have prevented them from resisting the State?

How can a man be satisfied to entertain an opinion merely, and enjoy
_it?_ Is there any enjoyment in it, if his opinion is that he is
aggrieved? If you are cheated out of a single dollar by your neighbor,
you do not rest satisfied with knowing you are cheated, or with saying
that you are cheated, or even with petitioning him to pay you your due;
but you take effectual steps at once to obtain the full amount, and see
that you are never cheated again. Action from principle,—the perception
and the performance of right,—changes things and relations; it is
essentially revolutionary, and does not consist wholly with anything
which was. It not only divided states and churches, it divides
families; aye, it divides the _individual_, separating the diabolical
in him from the divine.

Unjust laws exist: shall we be content to obey them, or shall we
endeavor to amend them, and obey them until we have succeeded, or shall
we transgress them at once? Men generally, under such a government as
this, think that they ought to wait until they have persuaded the
majority to alter them. They think that, if they should resist, the
remedy would be worse than the evil. But it is the fault of the
government itself that the remedy _is_ worse than the evil. _It_ makes
it worse. Why is it not more apt to anticipate and provide for reform?
Why does it not cherish its wise minority? Why does it cry and resist
before it is hurt? Why does it not encourage its citizens to be on the
alert to point out its faults, and _do_ better than it would have them?
Why does it always crucify Christ, and excommunicate Copernicus and
Luther, and pronounce Washington and Franklin rebels?

One would think, that a deliberate and practical denial of its
authority was the only offence never contemplated by government; else,
why has it not assigned its definite, its suitable and proportionate
penalty? If a man who has no property refuses but once to earn nine
shillings for the State, he is put in prison for a period unlimited by
any law that I know, and determined only by the discretion of those who
placed him there; but if he should steal ninety times nine shillings
from the State, he is soon permitted to go at large again.

If the injustice is part of the necessary friction of the machine of
government, let it go, let it go: perchance it will wear
smooth,—certainly the machine will wear out. If the injustice has a
spring, or a pulley, or a rope, or a crank, exclusively for itself,
then perhaps you may consider whether the remedy will not be worse than
the evil; but if it is of such a nature that it requires you to be the
agent of injustice to another, then, I say, break the law. Let your
life be a counter friction to stop the machine. What I have to do is to
see, at any rate, that I do not lend myself to the wrong which I
condemn.

As for adopting the ways which the State has provided for remedying the
evil, I know not of such ways. They take too much time, and a man’s
life will be gone. I have other affairs to attend to. I came into this
world, not chiefly to make this a good place to live in, but to live in
it, be it good or bad. A man has not every thing to do, but something;
and because he cannot do _every thing_, it is not necessary that he
should do _something_ wrong. It is not my business to be petitioning
the Governor or the Legislature any more than it is theirs to petition
me; and, if they should not hear my petition, what should I do then?
But in this case the State has provided no way: its very Constitution
is the evil. This may seem to be harsh and stubborn and
unconcilliatory; but it is to treat with the utmost kindness and
consideration the only spirit that can appreciate or deserves it. So is
all change for the better, like birth and death which convulse the
body.

I do not hesitate to say, that those who call themselves abolitionists
should at once effectually withdraw their support, both in person and
property, from the government of Massachusetts, and not wait till they
constitute a majority of one, before they suffer the right to prevail
through them. I think that it is enough if they have God on their side,
without waiting for that other one. Moreover, any man more right than
his neighbors constitutes a majority of one already.

I meet this American government, or its representative, the State
government, directly, and face to face, once a year, no more, in the
person of its tax-gatherer; this is the only mode in which a man
situated as I am necessarily meets it; and it then says distinctly,
Recognize me; and the simplest, the most effectual, and, in the present
posture of affairs, the indispensablest mode of treating with it on
this head, of expressing your little satisfaction with and love for it,
is to deny it then. My civil neighbor, the tax-gatherer, is the very
man I have to deal with,—for it is, after all, with men and not with
parchment that I quarrel,—and he has voluntarily chosen to be an agent
of the government. How shall he ever know well what he is and does as
an officer of the government, or as a man, until he is obliged to
consider whether he shall treat me, his neighbor, for whom he has
respect, as a neighbor and well-disposed man, or as a maniac and
disturber of the peace, and see if he can get over this obstruction to
his neighborliness without a ruder and more impetuous thought or speech
corresponding with his action? I know this well, that if one thousand,
if one hundred, if ten men whom I could name,—if ten _honest_ men
only,—aye, if _one_ HONEST man, in this State of Massachusetts,
_ceasing to hold slaves_, were actually to withdraw from this
copartnership, and be locked up in the county jail therefor, it would
be the abolition of slavery in America. For it matters not how small
the beginning may seem to be: what is once well done is done for ever.
But we love better to talk about it: that we say is our mission. Reform
keeps many scores of newspapers in its service, but not one man. If my
esteemed neighbor, the State’s ambassador, who will devote his days to
the settlement of the question of human rights in the Council Chamber,
instead of being threatened with the prisons of Carolina, were to sit
down the prisoner of Massachusetts, that State which is so anxious to
foist the sin of slavery upon her sister,—though at present she can
discover only an act of inhospitality to be the ground of a quarrel
with her,—the Legislature would not wholly waive the subject of the
following winter.

Under a government which imprisons any unjustly, the true place for a
just man is also a prison. The proper place today, the only place which
Massachusetts has provided for her freer and less desponding spirits,
is in her prisons, to be put out and locked out of the State by her own
act, as they have already put themselves out by their principles. It is
there that the fugitive slave, and the Mexican prisoner on parole, and
the Indian come to plead the wrongs of his race, should find them; on
that separate, but more free and honorable ground, where the State
places those who are not _with_ her but _against_ her,—the only house
in a slave-state in which a free man can abide with honor. If any think
that their influence would be lost there, and their voices no longer
afflict the ear of the State, that they would not be as an enemy within
its walls, they do not know by how much truth is stronger than error,
nor how much more eloquently and effectively he can combat injustice
who has experienced a little in his own person. Cast your whole vote,
not a strip of paper merely, but your whole influence. A minority is
powerless while it conforms to the majority; it is not even a minority
then; but it is irresistible when it clogs by its whole weight. If the
alternative is to keep all just men in prison, or give up war and
slavery, the State will not hesitate which to choose. If a thousand men
were not to pay their tax-bills this year, that would not be a violent
and bloody measure, as it would be to pay them, and enable the State to
commit violence and shed innocent blood. This is, in fact, the
definition of a peaceable revolution, if any such is possible. If the
tax-gatherer, or any other public officer, asks me, as one has done,
“But what shall I do?” my answer is, “If you really wish to do any
thing, resign your office.” When the subject has refused allegiance,
and the officer has resigned his office, then the revolution is
accomplished. But even suppose blood should flow. Is there not a sort
of blood shed when the conscience is wounded? Through this wound a
man’s real manhood and immortality flow out, and he bleeds to an
everlasting death. I see this blood flowing now.

I have contemplated the imprisonment of the offender, rather than the
seizure of his goods,—though both will serve the same purpose,—because
they who assert the purest right, and consequently are most dangerous
to a corrupt State, commonly have not spent much time in accumulating
property. To such the State renders comparatively small service, and a
slight tax is wont to appear exorbitant, particularly if they are
obliged to earn it by special labor with their hands. If there were one
who lived wholly without the use of money, the State itself would
hesitate to demand it of him. But the rich man—not to make any
invidious comparison—is always sold to the institution which makes him
rich. Absolutely speaking, the more money, the less virtue; for money
comes between a man and his objects, and obtains them for him; it was
certainly no great virtue to obtain it. It puts to rest many questions
which he would otherwise be taxed to answer; while the only new
question which it puts is the hard but superfluous one, how to spend
it. Thus his moral ground is taken from under his feet. The
opportunities of living are diminished in proportion as what are called
the “means” are increased. The best thing a man can do for his culture
when he is rich is to endeavor to carry out those schemes which he
entertained when he was poor. Christ answered the Herodians according
to their condition. “Show me the tribute-money,” said he;—and one took
a penny out of his pocket;—if you use money which has the image of
Cæsar on it, and which he has made current and valuable, that is, _if
you are men of the State_, and gladly enjoy the advantages of Cæsar’s
government, then pay him back some of his own when he demands it;
“Render therefore to Cæsar that which is Cæsar’s and to God those
things which are God’s,”—leaving them no wiser than before as to which
was which; for they did not wish to know.

When I converse with the freest of my neighbors, I perceive that,
whatever they may say about the magnitude and seriousness of the
question, and their regard for the public tranquillity, the long and
the short of the matter is, that they cannot spare the protection of
the existing government, and they dread the consequences of
disobedience to it to their property and families. For my own part, I
should not like to think that I ever rely on the protection of the
State. But, if I deny the authority of the State when it presents its
tax-bill, it will soon take and waste all my property, and so harass me
and my children without end. This is hard. This makes it impossible for
a man to live honestly and at the same time comfortably in outward
respects. It will not be worth the while to accumulate property; that
would be sure to go again. You must hire or squat somewhere, and raise
but a small crop, and eat that soon. You must live within yourself, and
depend upon yourself, always tucked up and ready for a start, and not
have many affairs. A man may grow rich in Turkey even, if he will be in
all respects a good subject of the Turkish government. Confucius
said,—“If a State is governed by the principles of reason, poverty and
misery are subjects of shame; if a State is not governed by the
principles of reason, riches and honors are the subjects of shame.” No:
until I want the protection of Massachusetts to be extended to me in
some distant southern port, where my liberty is endangered, or until I
am bent solely on building up an estate at home by peaceful enterprise,
I can afford to refuse allegiance to Massachusetts, and her right to my
property and life. It costs me less in every sense to incur the penalty
of disobedience to the State, than it would to obey. I should feel as
if I were worth less in that case.

Some years ago, the State met me in behalf of the church, and commanded
me to pay a certain sum toward the support of a clergyman whose
preaching my father attended, but never I myself. “Pay it,” it said,
“or be locked up in the jail.” I declined to pay. But, unfortunately,
another man saw fit to pay it. I did not see why the schoolmaster
should be taxed to support the priest, and not the priest the
schoolmaster; for I was not the State’s schoolmaster, but I supported
myself by voluntary subscription. I did not see why the lyceum should
not present its tax-bill, and have the State to back its demand, as
well as the church. However, at the request of the selectmen, I
condescended to make some such statement as this in writing:—“Know all
men by these presents, that I, Henry Thoreau, do not wish to be
regarded as a member of any incorporated society which I have not
joined.” This I gave to the town-clerk; and he has it. The State,
having thus learned that I did not wish to be regarded as a member of
that church, has never made a like demand on me since; though it said
that it must adhere to its original presumption that time. If I had
known how to name them, I should then have signed off in detail from
all the societies which I never signed on to; but I did not know where
to find such a complete list.

I have paid no poll-tax for six years. I was put into a jail once on
this account, for one night; and, as I stood considering the walls of
solid stone, two or three feet thick, the door of wood and iron, a foot
thick, and the iron grating which strained the light, I could not help
being struck with the foolishness of that institution which treated me
as if I were mere flesh and blood and bones, to be locked up. I
wondered that it should have concluded at length that this was the best
use it could put me to, and had never thought to avail itself of my
services in some way. I saw that, if there was a wall of stone between
me and my townsmen, there was a still more difficult one to climb or
break through, before they could get to be as free as I was. I did nor
for a moment feel confined, and the walls seemed a great waste of stone
and mortar. I felt as if I alone of all my townsmen had paid my tax.
They plainly did not know how to treat me, but behaved like persons who
are underbred. In every threat and in every compliment there was a
blunder; for they thought that my chief desire was to stand the other
side of that stone wall. I could not but smile to see how industriously
they locked the door on my meditations, which followed them out again
without let or hindrance, and _they_ were really all that was
dangerous. As they could not reach me, they had resolved to punish my
body; just as boys, if they cannot come at some person against whom
they have a spite, will abuse his dog. I saw that the State was
half-witted, that it was timid as a lone woman with her silver spoons,
and that it did not know its friends from its foes, and I lost all my
remaining respect for it, and pitied it.

Thus the state never intentionally confronts a man’s sense,
intellectual or moral, but only his body, his senses. It is not armed
with superior wit or honesty, but with superior physical strength. I
was not born to be forced. I will breathe after my own fashion. Let us
see who is the strongest. What force has a multitude? They only can
force me who obey a higher law than I. They force me to become like
themselves. I do not hear of _men_ being _forced_ to live this way or
that by masses of men. What sort of life were that to live? When I meet
a government which says to me, “Your money or your life,” why should I
be in haste to give it my money? It may be in a great strait, and not
know what to do: I cannot help that. It must help itself; do as I do.
It is not worth the while to snivel about it. I am not responsible for
the successful working of the machinery of society. I am not the son of
the engineer. I perceive that, when an acorn and a chestnut fall side
by side, the one does not remain inert to make way for the other, but
both obey their own laws, and spring and grow and flourish as best they
can, till one, perchance, overshadows and destroys the other. If a
plant cannot live according to its nature, it dies; and so a man.



The night in prison was novel and interesting enough. The prisoners in
their shirt-sleeves were enjoying a chat and the evening air in the
door-way, when I entered. But the jailer said, “Come, boys, it is time
to lock up;” and so they dispersed, and I heard the sound of their
steps returning into the hollow apartments. My room-mate was introduced
to me by the jailer as “a first-rate fellow and a clever man.” When the
door was locked, he showed me where to hang my hat, and how he managed
matters there. The rooms were whitewashed once a month; and this one,
at least, was the whitest, most simply furnished, and probably the
neatest apartment in town. He naturally wanted to know where I came
from, and what brought me there; and, when I had told him, I asked him
in my turn how he came there, presuming him to be an honest man, of
course; and, as the world goes, I believe he was. “Why,” said he, “they
accuse me of burning a barn; but I never did it.” As near as I could
discover, he had probably gone to bed in a barn when drunk, and smoked
his pipe there; and so a barn was burnt. He had the reputation of being
a clever man, had been there some three months waiting for his trial to
come on, and would have to wait as much longer; but he was quite
domesticated and contented, since he got his board for nothing, and
thought that he was well treated.

He occupied one window, and I the other; and I saw, that, if one stayed
there long, his principal business would be to look out the window. I
had soon read all the tracts that were left there, and examined where
former prisoners had broken out, and where a grate had been sawed off,
and heard the history of the various occupants of that room; for I
found that even here there was a history and a gossip which never
circulated beyond the walls of the jail. Probably this is the only
house in the town where verses are composed, which are afterward
printed in a circular form, but not published. I was shown quite a long
list of verses which were composed by some young men who had been
detected in an attempt to escape, who avenged themselves by singing
them.

I pumped my fellow-prisoner as dry as I could, for fear I should never
see him again; but at length he showed me which was my bed, and left me
to blow out the lamp.

It was like travelling into a far country, such as I had never expected
to behold, to lie there for one night. It seemed to me that I never had
heard the town-clock strike before, nor the evening sounds of the
village; for we slept with the windows open, which were inside the
grating. It was to see my native village in the light of the Middle
Ages, and our Concord was turned into a Rhine stream, and visions of
knights and castles passed before me. They were the voices of old
burghers that I heard in the streets. I was an involuntary spectator
and auditor of whatever was done and said in the kitchen of the
adjacent village-inn—a wholly new and rare experience to me. It was a
closer view of my native town. I was fairly inside of it. I never had
seen its institutions before. This is one of its peculiar institutions;
for it is a shire town. I began to comprehend what its inhabitants were
about.

In the morning, our breakfasts were put through the hole in the door,
in small oblong-square tin pans, made to fit, and holding a pint of
chocolate, with brown bread, and an iron spoon. When they called for
the vessels again, I was green enough to return what bread I had left;
but my comrade seized it, and said that I should lay that up for lunch
or dinner. Soon after, he was let out to work at haying in a
neighboring field, whither he went every day, and would not be back
till noon; so he bade me good-day, saying that he doubted if he should
see me again.

When I came out of prison,—for some one interfered, and paid the tax,—I
did not perceive that great changes had taken place on the common, such
as he observed who went in a youth, and emerged a gray-headed man; and
yet a change had to my eyes come over the scene,—the town, and State,
and country,—greater than any that mere time could effect. I saw yet
more distinctly the State in which I lived. I saw to what extent the
people among whom I lived could be trusted as good neighbors and
friends; that their friendship was for summer weather only; that they
did not greatly purpose to do right; that they were a distinct race
from me by their prejudices and superstitions, as the Chinamen and
Malays are; that, in their sacrifices to humanity they ran no risks,
not even to their property; that, after all, they were not so noble but
they treated the thief as he had treated them, and hoped, by a certain
outward observance and a few prayers, and by walking in a particular
straight though useless path from time to time, to save their souls.
This may be to judge my neighbors harshly; for I believe that most of
them are not aware that they have such an institution as the jail in
their village.

It was formerly the custom in our village, when a poor debtor came out
of jail, for his acquaintances to salute him, looking through their
fingers, which were crossed to represent the grating of a jail window,
“How do ye do?” My neighbors did not thus salute me, but first looked
at me, and then at one another, as if I had returned from a long
journey. I was put into jail as I was going to the shoemaker’s to get a
shoe which was mended. When I was let out the next morning, I proceeded
to finish my errand, and, having put on my mended shoe, joined a
huckleberry party, who were impatient to put themselves under my
conduct; and in half an hour,—for the horse was soon tackled,—was in
the midst of a huckleberry field, on one of our highest hills, two
miles off; and then the State was nowhere to be seen.

This is the whole history of “My Prisons.”



I have never declined paying the highway tax, because I am as desirous
of being a good neighbor as I am of being a bad subject; and, as for
supporting schools, I am doing my part to educate my fellow-countrymen
now. It is for no particular item in the tax-bill that I refuse to pay
it. I simply wish to refuse allegiance to the State, to withdraw and
stand aloof from it effectually. I do not care to trace the course of
my dollar, if I could, till it buys a man, or a musket to shoot one
with,—the dollar is innocent,—but I am concerned to trace the effects
of my allegiance. In fact, I quietly declare war with the State, after
my fashion, though I will still make use and get what advantages of her
I can, as is usual in such cases.

If others pay the tax which is demanded of me, from a sympathy with the
State, they do but what they have already done in their own case, or
rather they abet injustice to a greater extent than the State requires.
If they pay the tax from a mistaken interest in the individual taxed,
to save his property or prevent his going to jail, it is because they
have not considered wisely how far they let their private feelings
interfere with the public good.

This, then, is my position at present. But one cannot be too much on
his guard in such a case, lest his actions be biassed by obstinacy, or
an undue regard for the opinions of men. Let him see that he does only
what belongs to himself and to the hour.

I think sometimes, Why, this people mean well; they are only ignorant;
they would do better if they knew how: why give your neighbors this
pain to treat you as they are not inclined to? But I think, again, this
is no reason why I should do as they do, or permit others to suffer
much greater pain of a different kind. Again, I sometimes say to
myself, When many millions of men, without heat, without ill-will,
without personal feeling of any kind, demand of you a few shillings
only, without the possibility, such is their constitution, of
retracting or altering their present demand, and without the
possibility, on your side, of appeal to any other millions, why expose
yourself to this overwhelming brute force? You do not resist cold and
hunger, the winds and the waves, thus obstinately; you quietly submit
to a thousand similar necessities. You do not put your head into the
fire. But just in proportion as I regard this as not wholly a brute
force, but partly a human force, and consider that I have relations to
those millions as to so many millions of men, and not of mere brute or
inanimate things, I see that appeal is possible, first and
instantaneously, from them to the Maker of them, and, secondly, from
them to themselves. But, if I put my head deliberately into the fire,
there is no appeal to fire or to the Maker of fire, and I have only
myself to blame. If I could convince myself that I have any right to be
satisfied with men as they are, and to treat them accordingly, and not
according, in some respects, to my requisitions and expectations of
what they and I ought to be, then, like a good Mussulman and fatalist,
I should endeavor to be satisfied with things as they are, and say it
is the will of God. And, above all, there is this difference between
resisting this and a purely brute or natural force, that I can resist
this with some effect; but I cannot expect, like Orpheus, to change the
nature of the rocks and trees and beasts.

I do not wish to quarrel with any man or nation. I do not wish to split
hairs, to make fine distinctions, or set myself up as better than my
neighbors. I seek rather, I may say, even an excuse for conforming to
the laws of the land. I am but too ready to conform to them. Indeed I
have reason to suspect myself on this head; and each year, as the
tax-gatherer comes round, I find myself disposed to review the acts and
position of the general and state governments, and the spirit of the
people to discover a pretext for conformity.

  “We must affect our country as our parents,
  And if at any time we alienate
  Out love of industry from doing it honor,
  We must respect effects and teach the soul
  Matter of conscience and religion,
  And not desire of rule or benefit.”

I believe that the State will soon be able to take all my work of this
sort out of my hands, and then I shall be no better patriot than my
fellow-countrymen. Seen from a lower point of view, the Constitution,
with all its faults, is very good; the law and the courts are very
respectable; even this State and this American government are, in many
respects, very admirable, and rare things, to be thankful for, such as
a great many have described them; seen from a higher still, and the
highest, who shall say what they are, or that they are worth looking at
or thinking of at all?

However, the government does not concern me much, and I shall bestow
the fewest possible thoughts on it. It is not many moments that I live
under a government, even in this world. If a man is thought-free,
fancy-free, imagination-free, that which _is not_ never for a long time
appearing _to be_ to him, unwise rulers or reformers cannot fatally
interrupt him.

I know that most men think differently from myself; but those whose
lives are by profession devoted to the study of these or kindred
subjects content me as little as any. Statesmen and legislators,
standing so completely within the institution, never distinctly and
nakedly behold it. They speak of moving society, but have no
resting-place without it. They may be men of a certain experience and
discrimination, and have no doubt invented ingenious and even useful
systems, for which we sincerely thank them; but all their wit and
usefulness lie within certain not very wide limits. They are wont to
forget that the world is not governed by policy and expediency. Webster
never goes behind government, and so cannot speak with authority about
it. His words are wisdom to those legislators who contemplate no
essential reform in the existing government; but for thinkers, and
those who legislate for all time, he never once glances at the subject.
I know of those whose serene and wise speculations on this theme would
soon reveal the limits of his mind’s range and hospitality. Yet,
compared with the cheap professions of most reformers, and the still
cheaper wisdom and eloquence of politicians in general, his are almost
the only sensible and valuable words, and we thank Heaven for him.
Comparatively, he is always strong, original, and, above all,
practical. Still his quality is not wisdom, but prudence. The lawyer’s
truth is not Truth, but consistency or a consistent expediency. Truth
is always in harmony with herself, and is not concerned chiefly to
reveal the justice that may consist with wrong-doing. He well deserves
to be called, as he has been called, the Defender of the Constitution.
There are really no blows to be given by him but defensive ones. He is
not a leader, but a follower. His leaders are the men of ’87. “I have
never made an effort,” he says, “and never propose to make an effort; I
have never countenanced an effort, and never mean to countenance an
effort, to disturb the arrangement as originally made, by which the
various States came into the Union.” Still thinking of the sanction
which the Constitution gives to slavery, he says, “Because it was part
of the original compact,—let it stand.” Notwithstanding his special
acuteness and ability, he is unable to take a fact out of its merely
political relations, and behold it as it lies absolutely to be disposed
of by the intellect,—what, for instance, it behoves a man to do here in
America today with regard to slavery, but ventures, or is driven, to
make some such desperate answer as the following, while professing to
speak absolutely, and as a private man,—from which what new and
singular code of social duties might be inferred?—“The manner,” says
he, “in which the governments of those States where slavery exists are
to regulate it, is for their own consideration, under the
responsibility to their constituents, to the general laws of propriety,
humanity, and justice, and to God. Associations formed elsewhere,
springing from a feeling of humanity, or any other cause, have nothing
whatever to do with it. They have never received any encouragement from
me and they never will.” [These extracts have been inserted since the
Lecture was read —HDT]

They who know of no purer sources of truth, who have traced up its
stream no higher, stand, and wisely stand, by the Bible and the
Constitution, and drink at it there with reverence and humanity; but
they who behold where it comes trickling into this lake or that pool,
gird up their loins once more, and continue their pilgrimage toward its
fountain-head.

No man with a genius for legislation has appeared in America. They are
rare in the history of the world. There are orators, politicians, and
eloquent men, by the thousand; but the speaker has not yet opened his
mouth to speak who is capable of settling the much-vexed questions of
the day. We love eloquence for its own sake, and not for any truth
which it may utter, or any heroism it may inspire. Our legislators have
not yet learned the comparative value of free-trade and of freedom, of
union, and of rectitude, to a nation. They have no genius or talent for
comparatively humble questions of taxation and finance, commerce and
manufactures and agriculture. If we were left solely to the wordy wit
of legislators in Congress for our guidance, uncorrected by the
seasonable experience and the effectual complaints of the people,
America would not long retain her rank among the nations. For eighteen
hundred years, though perchance I have no right to say it, the New
Testament has been written; yet where is the legislator who has wisdom
and practical talent enough to avail himself of the light which it
sheds on the science of legislation.

The authority of government, even such as I am willing to submit
to,—for I will cheerfully obey those who know and can do better than I,
and in many things even those who neither know nor can do so well,—is
still an impure one: to be strictly just, it must have the sanction and
consent of the governed. It can have no pure right over my person and
property but what I concede to it. The progress from an absolute to a
limited monarchy, from a limited monarchy to a democracy, is a progress
toward a true respect for the individual. Even the Chinese philosopher
was wise enough to regard the individual as the basis of the empire. Is
a democracy, such as we know it, the last improvement possible in
government? Is it not possible to take a step further towards
recognizing and organizing the rights of man? There will never be a
really free and enlightened State, until the State comes to recognize
the individual as a higher and independent power, from which all its
own power and authority are derived, and treats him accordingly. I
please myself with imagining a State at last which can afford to be
just to all men, and to treat the individual with respect as a
neighbor; which even would not think it inconsistent with its own
repose, if a few were to live aloof from it, not meddling with it, nor
embraced by it, who fulfilled all the duties of neighbors and
fellow-men. A State which bore this kind of fruit, and suffered it to
drop off as fast as it ripened, would prepare the way for a still more
perfect and glorious State, which also I have imagined, but not yet
anywhere seen.













THE MAINE WOODS




KTAADN


On the 31st of August, 1846, I left Concord in Massachusetts for
Bangor and the backwoods of Maine, by way of the railroad and
steamboat, intending to accompany a relative of mine, engaged in the
lumber trade in Bangor, as far as a dam on the West Branch of the
Penobscot, in which property he was interested. From this place, which
is about one hundred miles by the river above Bangor, thirty miles
from the Houlton military road, and five miles beyond the last log
hut, I proposed to make excursions to Mount Ktaadn, the second highest
mountain in New England, about thirty miles distant, and to some of
the lakes of the Penobscot, either alone or with such company as I
might pick up there. It is unusual to find a camp so far in the woods
at that season, when lumbering operations have ceased, and I was glad
to avail myself of the circumstance of a gang of men being employed
there at that time in repairing the injuries caused by the great
freshet in the spring. The mountain may be approached more easily and
directly on horseback and on foot from the northeast side, by the
Aroostook road, and the Wassataquoik River; but in that case you see
much less of the wilderness, none of the glorious river and lake
scenery, and have no experience of the batteau and the boatman's life.
I was fortunate also in the season of the year, for in the summer
myriads of black flies, mosquitoes, and midges, or, as the Indians
call them, "no-see-ems," make traveling in the woods almost
impossible; but now their reign was nearly over.

Ktaadn, whose name is an Indian word signifying highest land, was
first ascended by white men in 1804. It was visited by Professor J. W.
Bailey of West Point in 1836; by Dr. Charles T. Jackson, the State
Geologist, in 1837; and by two young men from Boston in 1845. All
these have given accounts of their expeditions. Since I was there, two
or three other parties have made the excursion, and told their
stories. Besides these, very few, even among backwoodsmen and hunters,
have ever climbed it, and it will be a long time before the tide of
fashionable travel sets that way. The mountainous region of the State
of Maine stretches from near the White Mountains, northeasterly one
hundred and sixty miles, to the head of the Aroostook River, and is
about sixty miles wide. The wild or unsettled portion is far more
extensive. So that some hours only of travel in this direction will
carry the curious to the verge of a primitive forest, more
interesting, perhaps, on all accounts, than they would reach by going
a thousand miles westward.

The next forenoon, Tuesday, September 1, I started with my companion
in a buggy from Bangor for "up river," expecting to be overtaken the
next day night at Mattawamkeag Point, some sixty miles off, by two
more Bangoreans, who had decided to join us in a trip to the mountain.
We had each a knapsack or bag filled with such clothing and articles
as were indispensable, and my companion carried his gun.

Within a dozen miles of Bangor we passed through the villages of
Stillwater and Oldtown, built at the falls of the Penobscot, which
furnish the principal power by which the Maine woods are converted
into lumber. The mills are built directly over and across the river.
Here is a close jam, a hard rub, at all seasons; and then the once
green tree, long since white, I need not say as the driven snow, but
as a driven log, becomes lumber merely. Here your inch, your two and
your three inch stuff begin to be, and Mr. Sawyer marks off those
spaces which decide the destiny of so many prostrate forests. Through
this steel riddle, more or less coarse, is the arrowy Maine forest,
from Ktaadn and Chesuncook, and the head-waters of the St. John,
relentlessly sifted, till it comes out boards, clapboards, laths, and
shingles such as the wind can take, still, perchance, to be slit and
slit again, till men get a size that will suit. Think how stood the
white pine tree on the shore of Chesuncook, its branches soughing with
the four winds, and every individual needle trembling in the
sunlight,--think how it stands with it now,--sold, perchance, to the
New England Friction-Match Company! There were in 1837, as I read, two
hundred and fifty sawmills on the Penobscot and its tributaries above
Bangor, the greater part of them in this immediate neighborhood, and
they sawed two hundred millions of feet of boards annually. To this is
to be added the lumber of the Kennebec, Androscoggin, Saco,
Passamaquoddy, and other streams. No wonder that we hear so often of
vessels which are becalmed off our coast being surrounded a week at a
time by floating lumber from the Maine woods. The mission of men there
seems to be, like so many busy demons, to drive the forest all out of
the country, from every solitary beaver swamp and mountain-side, as
soon as possible.

At Oldtown, we walked into a batteau-manufactory. The making of
batteaux is quite a business here for the supply of the Penobscot
River. We examined some on the stocks. They are light and shapely
vessels, calculated for rapid and rocky streams, and to be carried
over long portages on men's shoulders, from twenty to thirty feet
long, and only four or four and a half wide, sharp at both ends like a
canoe, though broadest forward on the bottom, and reaching seven or
eight feet over the water, in order that they may slip over rocks as
gently as possible. They are made very slight, only two boards to a
side, commonly secured to a few light maple or other hard-wood knees,
but inward are of the clearest and widest white pine stuff, of which
there is a great waste on account of their form, for the bottom is
left perfectly flat, not only from side to side, but from end to end.
Sometimes they become "hogging" even, after long use, and the boatmen
then turn them over and straighten them by a weight at each end. They
told us that one wore out in two years, or often in a single trip, on
the rocks, and sold for from fourteen to sixteen dollars. There was
something refreshing and wildly musical to my ears in the very name of
the white man's canoe, reminding me of Charlevoix and Canadian
Voyageurs. The batteau is a sort of mongrel between the canoe and the
boat, a fur-trader's boat.

The ferry here took us past the Indian island. As we left the shore, I
observed a short, shabby, washerwoman-looking Indian,--they commonly
have the woebegone look of the girl that cried for spilt milk,--just
from "up river," land on the Oldtown side near a grocery, and, drawing
up his canoe, take out a bundle of skins in one hand, and an empty keg
or half-barrel in the other, and scramble up the bank with them. This
picture will do to put before the Indian's history, that is, the
history of his extinction. In 1837 there were three hundred and
sixty-two souls left of this tribe. The island seemed deserted to-day,
yet I observed some new houses among the weather-stained ones, as if
the tribe had still a design upon life; but generally they have a very
shabby, forlorn, and cheerless look, being all back side and woodshed,
not homesteads, even Indian homesteads, but instead of home or
abroad-steads, for their life is _domi aut militiæ_, at home or at
war, or now rather _venatus_, that is, a hunting, and most of the
latter. The church is the only trim-looking building, but that is not
Abenaki, that was Rome's doings. Good Canadian it may be, but it is
poor Indian. These were once a powerful tribe. Politics are all the
rage with them now. I even thought that a row of wigwams, with a dance
of powwows, and a prisoner tortured at the stake, would be more
respectable than this.

We landed in Milford, and rode along on the east side of the
Penobscot, having a more or less constant view of the river, and the
Indian islands in it, for they retain all the islands as far up as
Nicketow, at the mouth of the East Branch. They are generally
well-timbered, and are said to be better soil than the neighboring
shores. The river seemed shallow and rocky, and interrupted by rapids,
rippling and gleaming in the sun. We paused a moment to see a fish
hawk dive for a fish down straight as an arrow, from a great height,
but he missed his prey this time. It was the Houlton road on which we
were now traveling, over which some troops were marched once towards
Mars' Hill, though not to Mars' _field_, as it proved. It is the main,
almost the only, road in these parts, as straight and well made, and
kept in as good repair as almost any you will find anywhere.
Everywhere we saw signs of the great freshet,--this house standing
awry, and that where it was not founded, but where it was found, at
any rate, the next day; and that other with a waterlogged look, as if
it were still airing and drying its basement, and logs with
everybody's marks upon them, and sometimes the marks of their having
served as bridges, strewn along the road. We crossed the Sunkhaze, a
summery Indian name, the Olemmon, Passadumkeag, and other streams,
which make a greater show on the map than they now did on the road. At
Passadumkeag we found anything but what the name implies,--earnest
politicians, to wit,--white ones, I mean,--on the alert to know how
the election was likely to go; men who talked rapidly, with subdued
voice, and a sort of factitious earnestness you could not help
believing, hardly waiting for an introduction, one on each side of
your buggy, endeavoring to say much in little, for they see you hold
the whip impatiently, but always saying little in much. Caucuses they
have had, it seems, and caucuses they are to have again,--victory and
defeat. Somebody may be elected, somebody may not. One man, a total
stranger, who stood by our carriage in the dusk, actually frightened
the horse with his asseverations, growing more solemnly positive as
there was less in him to be positive about. So Passadumkeag did not
look on the map. At sundown, leaving the river road awhile for
shortness, we went by way of Enfield, where we stopped for the night.
This, like most of the localities bearing names on this road, was a
place to name which, in the midst of the unnamed and unincorporated
wilderness, was to make a distinction without a difference, it seemed
to me. Here, however, I noticed quite an orchard of healthy and
well-grown apple trees, in a bearing state, it being the oldest
settler's house in this region, but all natural fruit and
comparatively worthless for want of a grafter. And so it is generally,
lower down the river. It would be a good speculation, as well as a
favor conferred on the settlers, for a Massachusetts boy to go down
there with a trunk full of choice scions, and his grafting apparatus,
in the spring.

The next morning we drove along through a high and hilly country, in
view of Cold-Stream Pond, a beautiful lake four or five miles long,
and came into the Houlton road again, here called the military road,
at Lincoln, forty-five miles from Bangor, where there is quite a
village for this country,--the principal one above Oldtown. Learning
that there were several wigwams here, on one of the Indian islands, we
left our horse and wagon and walked through the forest half a mile to
the river, to procure a guide to the mountain. It was not till after
considerable search that we discovered their habitations,--small huts,
in a retired place, where the scenery was unusually soft and
beautiful, and the shore skirted with pleasant meadows and graceful
elms. We paddled ourselves across to the island side in a canoe,
which we found on the shore. Near where we landed sat an Indian girl,
ten or twelve years old, on a rock in the water, in the sun, washing,
and humming or moaning a song meanwhile. It was an aboriginal strain.
A salmon-spear, made wholly of wood, lay on the shore, such as they
might have used before white men came. It had an elastic piece of wood
fastened to one side of its point, which slipped over and closed upon
the fish, somewhat like the contrivance for holding a bucket at the
end of a well-pole. As we walked up to the nearest house, we were met
by a sally of a dozen wolfish-looking dogs, which may have been lineal
descendants from the ancient Indian dogs, which the first voyageurs
describe as "their wolves." I suppose they were. The occupant soon
appeared, with a long pole in his hand, with which he beat off the
dogs, while he parleyed with us,--a stalwart, but dull and
greasy-looking fellow, who told us, in his sluggish way, in answer to
our questions, as if it were the first serious business he had to do
that day, that there _were_ Indians going "up river"--he and one
other--to-day, before noon. And who was the other? Louis Neptune, who
lives in the next house. Well, let us go over and see Louis together.
The same doggish reception, and Louis Neptune makes his appearance,--a
small, wiry man, with puckered and wrinkled face, yet he seemed the
chief man of the two; the same, as I remembered, who had accompanied
Jackson to the mountain in '37. The same questions were put to Louis,
and the same information obtained, while the other Indian stood by. It
appeared that they were going to start by noon, with two canoes, to
go up to Chesuncook to hunt moose,--to be gone a month. "Well, Louis,
suppose you get to the Point (to the Five Islands, just below
Mattawamkeag) to camp, we walk on up the West Branch tomorrow,--four
of us,--and wait for you at the dam, or this side. You overtake us
to-morrow or next day, and take us into your canoes. We stop for you,
you stop for us. We pay you for your trouble." "Ye'," replied Louis,
"may be you carry some provision for all,--some pork,--some
bread,--and so pay." He said, "Me sure get some moose;" and when I
asked if he thought Pomola would let us go up, he answered that we
must plant one bottle of rum on the top; he had planted good many; and
when he looked again, the rum was all gone. He had been up two or
three times; he had planted letter,--English, German, French, etc.
These men were slightly clad in shirt and pantaloons, like laborers
with us in warm weather. They did not invite us into their houses, but
met us outside. So we left the Indians, thinking ourselves lucky to
have secured such guides and companions.

There were very few houses along the road, yet they did not altogether
fail, as if the law by which men are dispersed over the globe were a
very stringent one, and not to be resisted with impunity or for slight
reasons. There were even the germs of one or two villages just
beginning to expand. The beauty of the road itself was remarkable. The
various evergreens, many of which are rare with us,--delicate and
beautiful specimens of the larch, arbor-vitæ, ball-spruce, and
fir-balsam, from a few inches to many feet in height,--lined its
sides, in some places like a long front yard, springing up from the
smooth grass-plots which uninterruptedly border it, and are made
fertile by its wash; while it was but a step on either hand to the
grim, untrodden wilderness, whose tangled labyrinth of living, fallen,
and decaying trees only the deer and moose, the bear and wolf can
easily penetrate. More perfect specimens than any front-yard plot can
show grew there to grace the passage of the Houlton teams.

About noon we reached the Mattawamkeag, fifty-six miles from Bangor by
the way we had come, and put up at a frequented house still on the
Houlton road, where the Houlton stage stops. Here was a substantial
covered bridge over the Mattawamkeag, built, I think they said, some
seventeen years before. We had dinner,--where, by the way, and even at
breakfast, as well as supper, at the public-houses on this road, the
front rank is composed of various kinds of "sweet cakes," in a
continuous line from one end of the table to the other. I think I may
safely say that there was a row of ten or a dozen plates of this kind
set before us two here. To account for which, they say that, when the
lumberers come out of the woods, they have a craving for cakes and
pies, and such sweet things, which there are almost unknown, and this
is the _supply_ to satisfy that _demand_. The supply is always equal
to the demand, and these hungry men think a good deal of getting their
money's worth. No doubt the balance of victuals is restored by the
time they reach Bangor,--Mattawamkeag takes off the raw edge. Well,
over this front rank, I say, you, coming from the "sweet cake" side,
with a cheap philosophic indifference though it may be, have to
assault what there is behind, which I do not by any means mean to
insinuate is insufficient in quantity or quality to supply that other
demand, of men, not from the woods but from the towns, for venison and
strong country fare. After dinner we strolled down to the "Point,"
formed by the junction of the two rivers, which is said to be the
scene of an ancient battle between the Eastern Indians and the
Mohawks, and searched there carefully for relics, though the men at
the bar-room had never heard of such things; but we found only some
flakes of arrowhead stone, some points of arrowheads, one small leaden
bullet, and some colored beads, the last to be referred, perhaps, to
early fur-trader days. The Mattawamkeag, though wide, was a mere
river's bed, full of rocks and shallows at this time, so that you
could cross it almost dry-shod in boots; and I could hardly believe my
companion, when he told me that he had been fifty or sixty miles up it
in a batteau, through distant and still uncut forests. A batteau could
hardly find a harbor now at its mouth. Deer and caribou, or reindeer,
are taken here in the winter, in sight of the house.

Before our companions arrived, we rode on up the Houlton road seven
miles to Molunkus, where the Aroostook road comes into it, and where
there is a spacious public house in the woods, called the "Molunkus
House," kept by one Libbey, which looked as if it had its hall for
dancing and for military drills. There was no other evidence of man
but this huge shingle palace in this part of the world; but sometimes
even this is filled with travelers. I looked off the piazza round the
corner of the house up the Aroostook road, on which there was no
clearing in sight. There was a man just adventuring upon it this
evening in a rude, original, what you may call Aroostook wagon,--a
mere seat, with a wagon swung under it, a few bags on it, and a dog
asleep to watch them. He offered to carry a message for us to anybody
in that country, cheerfully. I suspect that, if you should go to the
end of the world, you would find somebody there going farther, as if
just starting for home at sundown, and having a last word before he
drove off. Here, too, _was_ a small trader, whom I did not see at
first, who kept a store,--but no great store, certainly,--in a small
box over the way, behind the Molunkus sign-post. It looked like the
balance-box of a patent hay-scales. As for his house, we could only
conjecture where that was; he may have been a boarder in the Molunkus
House. I saw him standing in his shop door,--his shop was so small,
that, if a traveler should make demonstrations of entering in, _he_
would have to go out by the back way, and confer with his customer
through a window, about his goods in the cellar, or, more probably,
bespoken, and yet on the way. I should have gone in, for I felt a real
impulse to trade, if I had not stopped to consider what would become
of him. The day before, we had walked into a shop, over against an inn
where we stopped, the puny beginning of trade, which would grow at
last into a firm copartnership in the future town or city,--indeed, it
was already "Somebody & Co.," I forget who. The woman came forward
from the penetralia of the attached house, for "Somebody & Co." was in
the burning, and she sold us percussion-caps, canalés and smooth, and
knew their prices and qualities, and which the hunters preferred. Here
was a little of everything in a small compass to satisfy the wants and
the ambition of the woods,--a stock selected with what pains and care,
and brought home in the wagon-box, or a corner of the Houlton team;
but there seemed to me, as usual, a preponderance of children's
toys,--dogs to bark, and cats to mew, and trumpets to blow, where
natives there hardly are yet. As if a child born into the Maine woods,
among the pine cones and cedar berries, could not do without such a
sugar-man or skipping-jack as the young Rothschild has.

I think that there was not more than one house on the road to
Molunkus, or for seven miles. At that place we got over the fence into
a new field, planted with potatoes, where the logs were still burning
between the hills; and, pulling up the vines, found good-sized
potatoes, nearly ripe, growing like weeds, and turnips mixed with
them. The mode of clearing and planting is to fell the trees, and burn
once what will burn, then cut them up into suitable lengths, roll into
heaps, and burn again; then, with a hoe, plant potatoes where you can
come at the ground between the stumps and charred logs; for a first
crop the ashes sufficing for manure, and no hoeing being necessary the
first year. In the fall, cut, roll, and burn again, and so on, till
the land is cleared; and soon it is ready for grain, and to be laid
down. Let those talk of poverty and hard times who will in the towns
and cities; cannot the emigrant who can pay his fare to New York or
Boston pay five dollars more to get here,--I paid three, all told,
for my passage from Boston to Bangor, two hundred and fifty
miles,--and be as rich as he pleases, where land virtually costs
nothing, and houses only the labor of building, and he may begin life
as Adam did? If he will still remember the distinction of poor and
rich, let him bespeak him a narrower house forthwith.

When we returned to the Mattawamkeag, the Houlton stage had already
put up there; and a Province man was betraying his greenness to the
Yankees by his questions. Why Province money won't pass here at par,
when States' money is good at Fredericton,--though this, perhaps, was
sensible enough. From what I saw then, it appears that the Province
man was now the only real Jonathan, or raw country bumpkin, left so
far behind by his enterprising neighbors that he didn't know enough to
put a question to them. No people can long continue provincial in
character who have the propensity for politics and whittling, and
rapid traveling, which the Yankees have, and who are leaving the
mother country behind in the variety of their notions and inventions.
The possession and exercise of practical talent merely are a sure and
rapid means of intellectual culture and independence.

The last edition of Greenleaf's Map of Maine hung on the wall here,
and, as we had no pocket-map, we resolved to trace a map of the lake
country. So, dipping a wad of tow into the lamp, we oiled a sheet of
paper on the oiled table-cloth, and, in good faith, traced what we
afterwards ascertained to be a labyrinth of errors, carefully
following the outlines of the imaginary lakes which the map contains.
The Map of the Public Lands of Maine and Massachusetts is the only one
I have seen that at all deserves the name. It was while we were
engaged in this operation that our companions arrived. They had seen
the Indians' fire on the Five Islands, and so we concluded that all
was right.

Early the next morning we had mounted our packs, and prepared for a
tramp up the West Branch, my companion having turned his horse out to
pasture for a week or ten days, thinking that a bite of fresh grass
and a taste of running water would do him as much good as backwoods
fare and new country influences his master. Leaping over a fence, we
began to follow an obscure trail up the northern bank of the
Penobscot. There was now no road further, the river being the only
highway, and but half a dozen log huts, confined to its banks, to be
met with for thirty miles. On either hand, and beyond, was a wholly
uninhabited wilderness, stretching to Canada. Neither horse nor cow,
nor vehicle of any kind, had ever passed over this ground; the cattle,
and the few bulky articles which the loggers use, being got up in the
winter on the ice, and down again before it breaks up. The evergreen
woods had a decidedly sweet and bracing fragrance; the air was a sort
of diet-drink, and we walked on buoyantly in Indian file, stretching
our legs. Occasionally there was a small opening on the bank, made for
the purpose of log-rolling, where we got a sight of the river,--always
a rocky and rippling stream. The roar of the rapids, the note of a
whistler duck on the river, of the jay and chickadee around us, and of
the pigeon woodpecker in the openings, were the sounds that we heard.
This was what you might call a bran-new country; the only roads were
of Nature's making, and the few houses were camps. Here, then, one
could no longer accuse institutions and society, but must front the
true source of evil.

There are three classes of inhabitants who either frequent or inhabit
the country which we had now entered: first, the loggers, who, for a
part of the year, the winter and spring, are far the most numerous,
but in the summer, except a few explorers for timber, completely
desert it; second, the few settlers I have named, the only permanent
inhabitants, who live on the verge of it, and help raise supplies for
the former; third, the hunters, mostly Indians, who range over it in
their season.

At the end of three miles we came to the Mattaseunk stream and mill,
where there was even a rude wooden railroad running down to the
Penobscot, the last railroad we were to see. We crossed one tract, on
the bank of the river, of more than a hundred acres of heavy timber,
which had just been felled and burnt over, and was still smoking. Our
trail lay through the midst of it, and was well-nigh blotted out. The
trees lay at full length, four or five feet deep, and crossing each
other in all directions, all black as charcoal, but perfectly sound
within, still good for fuel or for timber; soon they would be cut into
lengths and burnt again. Here were thousands of cords, enough to keep
the poor of Boston and New York amply warm for a winter, which only
cumbered the ground and were in the settler's way. And the whole of
that solid and interminable forest is doomed to be gradually devoured
thus by fire, like shavings, and no man be warmed by it. At Crocker's
log-hut, at the mouth of Salmon River, seven miles from the Point, one
of the party commenced distributing a store of small, cent
picture-books among the children, to teach them to read, and also
newspapers, more or less recent, among the parents, than which nothing
can be more acceptable to a backwoods people. It was really an
important item in our outfit, and, at times, the only currency that
would circulate. I walked through Salmon River with my shoes on, it
being low water, but not without wetting my feet. A few miles farther
we came to "Marm Howard's," at the end of an extensive clearing, where
there were two or three log huts in sight at once, one on the opposite
side of the river, and a few graves even, surrounded by a wooden
paling, where already the rude forefathers of a hamlet lie, and a
thousand years hence, perchance, some poet will write his "Elergy in a
Country Churchyard." The "Village Hampdens," the "mute, inglorious
Miltons," and Cromwells, "guiltless of" their "country's blood," were
yet unborn.

     "Perchance in this _wild_ spot _there will be_ laid
       Some heart once pregnant with celestial fire;
     Hands that the rod of empire might have swayed,
       Or waked to ecstasy the living lyre."

The next house was Fisk's, ten miles from the Point at the mouth of
the East Branch, opposite to the island Nicketow, or the Forks, the
last of the Indian islands. I am particular to give the names of the
settlers and the distances, since every log hut in these woods is a
public house, and such information is of no little consequence to
those who may have occasion to travel this way. Our course here
crossed the Penobscot, and followed the southern bank. One of the
party, who entered the house in search of some one to set us over,
reported a very neat dwelling, with plenty of books, and a new wife,
just imported from Boston, wholly new to the woods. We found the East
Branch a large and rapid stream at its mouth and much deeper than it
appeared. Having with some difficulty discovered the trail again, we
kept up the south side of the West Branch, or main river, passing by
some rapids called Rock-Ebeeme, the roar of which we heard through the
woods, and, shortly after, in the thickest of the wood, some empty
loggers' camps, still new, which were occupied the previous winter.
Though we saw a few more afterwards, I will make one account serve for
all. These were such houses as the lumberers of Maine spend the winter
in, in the wilderness. There were the camps and the hovels for the
cattle, hardly distinguishable, except that the latter had no chimney.
These camps were about twenty feet long by fifteen wide, built of
logs,--hemlock, cedar, spruce or yellow birch,--one kind alone, or all
together, with the bark on; two or three large ones first, one
directly above another, and notched together at the ends, to the
height of three or four feet, then of smaller logs resting upon
transverse ones at the ends, each of the last successively shorter
than the other, to form the roof. The chimney was an oblong square
hole in the middle, three or four feet in diameter, with a fence of
logs as high as the ridge. The interstices were filled with moss, and
the roof was shingled with long and handsome splints of cedar, or
spruce, or pine, rifted with a sledge and cleaver. The fireplace, the
most important place of all, was in shape and size like the chimney,
and directly under it, defined by a log fence or fender on the ground,
and a heap of ashes, a foot or two deep within, with solid benches of
split logs running round it. Here the fire usually melts the snow, and
dries the rain before it can descend to quench it. The faded beds of
arbor-vitæ leaves extended under the eaves on either hand. There was
the place for the water-pail, pork-barrel, and wash-basin, and
generally a dingy pack of cards left on a log. Usually a good deal of
whittling was expended on the latch, which was made of wood, in the
form of an iron one. These houses are made comfortable by the huge
fires, which can be afforded night and day. Usually the scenery about
them is drear and savage enough; and the loggers' camp is as
completely in the woods as a fungus at the foot of a pine in a swamp;
no outlook but to the sky overhead; no more clearing than is made by
cutting down the trees of which it is built, and those which are
necessary for fuel. If only it be well sheltered and convenient to his
work, and near a spring, he wastes no thought on the prospect. They
are very proper forest houses, the stems of the trees collected
together and piled up around a man to keep out wind and rain,--made of
living green logs, hanging with moss and lichen, and with the curls
and fringes of the yellow birch bark, and dripping with resin, fresh
and moist, and redolent of swampy odors, with that sort of vigor and
perennialness even about them that toadstools suggest.[1] The
logger's fare consists of tea, molasses, flour, pork (sometimes beef),
and beans. A great proportion of the beans raised in Massachusetts
find their market here. On expeditions it is only hard bread and pork,
often raw, slice upon slice, with tea or water, as the case may be.

The primitive wood is always and everywhere damp and mossy, so that I
traveled constantly with the impression that I was in a swamp; and
only when it was remarked that this or that tract, judging from the
quality of the timber on it, would make a profitable clearing, was I
reminded, that if the sun were let in it would make a dry field, like
the few I had seen, at once. The best shod for the most part travel
with wet feet. If the ground was so wet and spongy at this, the dryest
part of a dry season, what must it be in the spring? The woods
hereabouts abounded in beech and yellow birch, of which last there
were some very large specimens; also spruce, cedar, fir, and hemlock;
but we saw only the stumps of the white pine here, some of them of
great size, these having been already culled out, being the only tree
much sought after, even as low down as this. Only a little spruce and
hemlock beside had been logged here. The Eastern wood which is sold
for fuel in Massachusetts all comes from below Bangor. It was the
pine alone, chiefly the white pine, that had tempted any but the
hunter to precede us on this route.

Waite's farm, thirteen miles from the Point, is an extensive and
elevated clearing, from which we got a fine view of the river,
rippling and gleaming far beneath us. My companions had formerly had a
good view of Ktaadn and the other mountains here, but to-day it was so
smoky that we could see nothing of them. We could overlook an immense
country of uninterrupted forest, stretching away up the East Branch
toward Canada on the north and northwest, and toward the Aroostook
valley on the northeast; and imagine what wild life was stirring in
its midst. Here was quite a field of corn for this region, whose
peculiar dry scent we perceived a third of a mile off, before we saw
it.

Eighteen miles from the Point brought us in sight of McCauslin's, or
"Uncle George's," as he was familiarly called by my companions, to
whom he was well known, where we intended to break our long fast. His
house was in the midst of an extensive clearing or intervale, at the
mouth of the Little Schoodic River, on the opposite or north bank of
the Penobscot. So we collected on a point of the shore, that we might
be seen, and fired our gun as a signal, which brought out his dogs
forthwith, and thereafter their master, who in due time took us across
in his batteau. This clearing was bounded abruptly, on all sides but
the river, by the naked stems of the forest, as if you were to cut
only a few feet square in the midst of a thousand acres of mowing, and
set down a thimble therein. He had a whole heaven and horizon to
himself, and the sun seemed to be journeying over his clearing only
the livelong day. Here we concluded to spend the night, and wait for
the Indians, as there was no stopping-place so convenient above. He
had seen no Indians pass, and this did not often happen without his
knowledge. He thought that his dogs sometimes gave notice of the
approach of Indians half an hour before they arrived.

McCauslin was a Kennebec man, of Scotch descent, who had been a
waterman twenty-two years, and had driven on the lakes and headwaters
of the Penobscot five or six springs in succession, but was now
settled here to raise supplies for the lumberers and for himself. He
entertained us a day or two with true Scotch hospitality, and would
accept no recompense for it. A man of a dry wit and shrewdness, and a
general intelligence which I had not looked for in the back woods. In
fact, the deeper you penetrate into the woods, the more intelligent,
and, in one sense, less countrified do you find the inhabitants; for
always the pioneer has been a traveler, and, to some extent, a man of
the world; and, as the distances with which he is familiar are
greater, so is his information more general and far reaching than the
villager's. If I were to look for a narrow, uninformed, and
countrified mind, as opposed to the intelligence and refinement which
are thought to emanate from cities, it would be among the rusty
inhabitants of an old-settled country, on farms all run out and gone
to seed with life-everlasting, in the towns about Boston, even on the
high-road in Concord, and not in the back woods of Maine.

Supper was got before our eyes in the ample kitchen, by a fire which
would have roasted an ox; many whole logs, four feet long, were
consumed to boil our tea-kettle,--birch, or beech, or maple, the same
summer and winter; and the dishes were soon smoking on the table, late
the arm-chair, against the wall, from which one of the party was
expelled. The arms of the chair formed the frame on which the table
rested; and, when the round top was turned up against the wall, it
formed the back of the chair, and was no more in the way than the wall
itself. This, we noticed, was the prevailing fashion in these log
houses, in order to economize in room. There were piping-hot wheaten
cakes, the flour having been brought up the river in batteaux,--no
Indian bread, for the upper part of Maine, it will be remembered, is a
wheat country,--and ham, eggs, and potatoes, and milk and cheese, the
produce of the farm; and also shad and salmon, tea sweetened with
molasses, and sweet cakes, in contradistinction to the hot cakes not
sweetened, the one white, the other yellow, to wind up with. Such we
found was the prevailing fare, ordinary and extraordinary, along this
river. Mountain cranberries (_Vaccinium Vitis-Idæa_), stewed and
sweetened, were the common dessert. Everything here was in profusion,
and the best of its kind. Butter was in such plenty that it was
commonly used, before it was salted, to grease boots with.

In the night we were entertained by the sound of rain-drops on the
cedar splints which covered the roof, and awaked the next morning with
a drop or two in our eyes. It had set in for a storm, and we made up
our minds not to forsake such comfortable quarters with this prospect,
but wait for Indians and fair weather. It rained and drizzled and
gleamed by turns, the livelong day. What we did there, how we killed
the time would perhaps be idle to tell; how many times we buttered our
boots, and how often a drowsy one was seen to sidle off to the
bedroom. When it held up, I strolled up and down the bank, and
gathered the harebell and cedar berries, which grew there; or else we
tried by turns the long-handled axe on the logs before the door. The
axe-helves here were made to chop standing on the log,--a primitive
log of course,--and were, therefore, nearly a foot longer than with
us. One while we walked over the farm and visited his well-filled
barns with McCauslin. There were one other man and two women only
here. He kept horses, cows, oxen, and sheep. I think he said that he
was the first to bring a plow and a cow so far; and he might have
added the last, with only two exceptions. The potato-rot had found him
out here, too, the previous year, and got half or two thirds of his
crop, though the seed was of his own raising. Oats, grass, and
potatoes were his staples; but he raised, also, a few carrots and
turnips, and "a little corn for the hens," for this was all that he
dared risk, for fear that it would not ripen. Melons, squashes, sweet
corn, beans, tomatoes, and many other vegetables, could not be ripened
there.

The very few settlers along this stream were obviously tempted by the
cheapness of the land mainly. When I asked McCauslin why more settlers
did not come in, he answered, that one reason was, they could not buy
the land, it belonged to individuals or companies who were afraid that
their wild lands would be settled, and so incorporated into towns, and
they be taxed for them; but to settling on the State's land there was
no such hindrance. For his own part, he wanted no neighbors,--he
didn't wish to see any road by his house. Neighbors, even the best,
were a trouble and expense, especially on the score of cattle and
fences. They might live across the river, perhaps, but not on the same
side.

The chickens here were protected by the dogs. As McCauslin said, "The
old one took it up first, and she taught the pup, and now they had got
it into their heads that it wouldn't do to have anything of the bird
kind on the premises." A hawk hovering over was not allowed to alight,
but barked off by the dogs circling underneath; and a pigeon, or a
"yellow-hammer," as they called the pigeon woodpecker, on a dead limb
or stump, was instantly expelled. It was the main business of their
day, and kept them constantly coming and going. One would rush out of
the house on the least alarm given by the other.

When it rained hardest, we returned to the house, and took down a
tract from the shelf. There was the "Wandering Jew," cheap edition,
and fine print, the "Criminal Calendar," and "Parish's Geography," and
flash novels two or three. Under the pressure of circumstances, we
read a little in these. With such aid, the press is not so feeble an
engine, after all. This house, which was a fair specimen of those on
this river, was built of huge logs, which peeped out everywhere, and
were chinked with clay and moss. It contained four or five rooms.
There were no sawed boards, or shingles, or clapboards, about it; and
scarcely any tool but the axe had been used in its construction. The
partitions were made of long clapboard-like splints, of spruce or
cedar, turned to a delicate salmon-color by the smoke. The roof and
sides were covered with the same, instead of shingles and clapboards,
and some of a much thicker and larger size were used for the floor.
These were all so straight and smooth, that they answered the purpose
admirably, and a careless observer would not have suspected that they
were not sawed and planed. The chimney and hearth were of vast size,
and made of stone. The broom was a few twigs of arbor-vitæ tied to a
stick; and a pole was suspended over the hearth, close to the ceiling,
to dry stockings and clothes on. I noticed that the floor was full of
small, dingy holes, as if made with a gimlet, but which were, in fact,
made by the spikes, nearly an inch long, which the lumberers wear in
their boots to prevent their slipping on wet logs. Just above
McCauslin's, there is a rocky rapid, where logs jam in the spring; and
many "drivers" are there collected, who frequent his house for
supplies; these were their tracks which I saw.

At sundown McCauslin pointed away over the forest, across the river,
to signs of fair weather amid the clouds,--some evening redness there.
For even there the points of compass held; and there was a quarter of
the heavens appropriated to sunrise and another to sunset.

The next morning, the weather proving fair enough for our purpose, we
prepared to start, and, the Indians having failed us, persuaded
McCauslin, who was not unwilling to revisit the scenes of his driving,
to accompany us in their stead, intending to engage one other boatman
on the way. A strip of cotton cloth for a tent, a couple of blankets,
which would suffice for the whole party, fifteen pounds of hard bread,
ten pounds of "clear" pork, and a little tea, made up "Uncle George's"
pack. The last three articles were calculated to be provision enough
for six men for a week, with what we might pick up. A tea-kettle, a
frying-pan, and an axe, to be obtained at the last house, would
complete our outfit.

We were soon out of McCauslin's clearing, and in the evergreen woods
again. The obscure trail made by the two settlers above, which even
the woodman is sometimes puzzled to discern, ere long crossed a
narrow, open strip in the woods overrun with weeds, called the Burnt
Land, where a fire had raged formerly, stretching northward nine or
ten miles, to Millinocket Lake. At the end of three miles, we reached
Shad Pond, or Noliseemack, an expansion of the river. Hodge, the
Assistant State Geologist, who passed through this on the 25th of
June, 1837, says, "We pushed our boat through an acre or more of
buck-beans, which had taken root at the bottom, and bloomed above the
surface in the greatest profusion and beauty." Thomas Fowler's house
is four miles from McCauslin's, on the shore of the pond, at the mouth
of the Millinocket River, and eight miles from the lake of the same
name, on the latter stream. This lake affords a more direct course to
Ktaadn, but we preferred to follow the Penobscot and the Pamadumcook
lakes. Fowler was just completing a new log hut, and was sawing out a
window through the logs, nearly two feet thick, when we arrived. He
had begun to paper his house with spruce bark, turned inside out,
which had a good effect, and was in keeping with the circumstances.
Instead of water we got here a draught of beer, which, it was allowed,
would be better; clear and thin, but strong and stringent as the cedar
sap. It was as if we sucked at the very teats of Nature's pine-clad
bosom in these parts,--the sap of all Millinocket botany
commingled,--the topmost, most fantastic, and spiciest sprays of the
primitive wood, and whatever invigorating and stringent gum or essence
it afforded steeped and dissolved in it,--a lumberer's drink, which
would acclimate and naturalize a man at once,--which would make him
see green, and, if he slept, dream that he heard the wind sough among
the pines. Here was a fife, praying to be played on, through which we
breathed a few tuneful strains,--brought hither to tame wild beasts.
As we stood upon the pile of chips by the door, fish hawks were
sailing overhead; and here, over Shad Pond, might daily be witnessed
the tyranny of the bald eagle over that bird. Tom pointed away over
the lake to a bald eagle's nest, which was plainly visible more than a
mile off, on a pine, high above the surrounding forest, and was
frequented from year to year by the same pair, and held sacred by him.
There were these two houses only there, his low hut and the eagles'
airy cart-load of fagots. Thomas Fowler, too, was persuaded to join
us, for two men were necessary to manage the batteau, which was soon
to be our carriage, and these men needed to be cool and skillful for
the navigation of the Penobscot. Tom's pack was soon made, for he had
not far to look for his waterman's boots, and a red flannel shirt.
This is the favorite color with lumbermen; and red flannel is reputed
to possess some mysterious virtues, to be most healthful and
convenient in respect to perspiration. In every gang there will be a
large proportion of red birds. We took here a poor and leaky batteau,
and began to pole up the Millinocket two miles, to the elder Fowler's,
in order to avoid the Grand Falls of the Penobscot, intending to
exchange our batteau there for a better. The Millinocket is a small,
shallow, and sandy stream, full of what I took to be lamprey-eels' or
suckers' nests, and lined with musquash-cabins, but free from rapids,
according to Fowler, excepting at its outlet from the lake. He was at
this time engaged in cutting the native grass--rush-grass and
meadow-clover, as he called it--on the meadows and small, low islands
of this stream. We noticed flattened places in the grass on either
side, where, he said, a moose had laid down the night before, adding,
that there were thousands in these meadows.

Old Fowler's, on the Millinocket, six miles from McCauslin's, and
twenty-four from the Point, is the last house. Gibson's, on the
Sowadnehunk, is the only clearing above, but that had proved a
failure, and was long since deserted. Fowler is the oldest inhabitant
of these woods. He formerly lived a few miles from here, on the south
side of the West Branch, where he built his house sixteen years ago,
the first house built above the Five Islands. Here our new batteau was
to be carried over the first portage of two miles, round the Grand
Falls of the Penobscot, on a horse-sled made of saplings, to jump the
numerous rocks in the way; but we had to wait a couple of hours for
them to catch the horses, which were pastured at a distance, amid the
stumps, and had wandered still farther off. The last of the salmon for
this season had just been caught, and were still fresh in pickle, from
which enough was extracted to fill our empty kettle, and so graduate
our introduction to simpler forest fare. The week before they had lost
nine sheep here out of their first flock, by the wolves. The surviving
sheep came round the house, and seemed frightened, which induced them
to go and look for the rest, when they found seven dead and lacerated,
and two still alive. These last they carried to the house, and, as
Mrs. Fowler said, they were merely scratched in the throat, and had no
more visible wound than would be produced by the prick of a pin. She
sheared off the wool from their throats, and washed them, and put on
some salve, and turned them out, but in a few moments they were
missing, and had not been found since. In fact, they were all
poisoned, and those that were found swelled up at once, so that they
saved neither skin nor wool. This realized the old fables of the
wolves and the sheep, and convinced me that that ancient hostility
still existed. Verily, the shepherd-boy did not need to sound a false
alarm this time. There were steel traps by the door, of various sizes,
for wolves, otter, and bears, with large claws instead of teeth, to
catch in their sinews. Wolves are frequently killed with poisoned
bait.

At length, after we had dined here on the usual backwoods fare, the
horses arrived, and we hauled our batteau out of the water, and lashed
it to its wicker carriage, and, throwing in our packs, walked on
before, leaving the boatmen and driver, who was Tom's brother, to
manage the concern. The route, which led through the wild pasture
where the sheep were killed, was in some places the roughest ever
traveled by horses, over rocky hills, where the sled bounced and slid
along, like a vessel pitching in a storm; and one man was as necessary
to stand at the stern, to prevent the boat from being wrecked, as a
helmsman in the roughest sea. The philosophy of our progress was
something like this: when the runners struck a rock three or four feet
high, the sled bounced back and upwards at the same time; but, as the
horses never ceased pulling, it came down on the top of the rock, and
so we got over. This portage probably followed the trail of an ancient
Indian carry round these falls. By two o'clock we, who had walked on
before, reached the river above the falls, not far from the outlet of
Quakish Lake, and waited for the batteau to come up. We had been here
but a short time, when a thunder-shower was seen coming up from the
west, over the still invisible lakes, and that pleasant wilderness
which we were so eager to become acquainted with; and soon the heavy
drops began to patter on the leaves around us. I had just selected the
prostrate trunk of a huge pine, five or six feet in diameter, and was
crawling under it, when, luckily, the boat arrived. It would have
amused a sheltered man to witness the manner in which it was unlashed,
and whirled over, while the first waterspout burst upon us. It was no
sooner in the hands of the eager company than it was abandoned to the
first revolutionary impulse, and to gravity, to adjust it; and they
might have been seen all stooping to its shelter, and wriggling under
like so many eels, before it was fairly deposited on the ground. When
all were under, we propped up the lee side, and busied ourselves there
whittling thole-pins for rowing, when we should reach the lakes; and
made the woods ring, between the claps of thunder, with such
boat-songs as we could remember. The horses stood sleek and shining
with the rain, all drooping and crestfallen, while deluge after deluge
washed over us; but the bottom of a boat may be relied on for a tight
roof. At length, after two hours' delay at this place, a streak of
fair weather appeared in the northwest, whither our course now lay,
promising a serene evening for our voyage; and the driver returned
with his horses, while we made haste to launch our boat, and commence
our voyage in good earnest.

There were six of us, including the two boatmen. With our packs heaped
up near the bows, and ourselves disposed as baggage to trim the boat,
with instructions not to move in case we should strike a rock, more
than so many barrels of pork, we pushed out into the first rapid, a
slight specimen of the stream we had to navigate. With Uncle George in
the stern, and Tom in the bows, each using a spruce pole about twelve
feet long, pointed with iron,[2] and poling on the same side, we shot
up the rapids like a salmon, the water rushing and roaring around, so
that only a practiced eye could distinguish a safe course, or tell
what was deep water and what rocks, frequently grazing the latter on
one or both sides, with a hundred as narrow escapes as ever the Argo
had in passing through the Symplegades. I, who had had some experience
in boating, had never experienced any half so exhilarating before. We
were lucky to have exchanged our Indians, whom we did not know, for
these men, who, together with Tom's brother, were reputed the best
boatmen on the river, and were at once indispensable pilots and
pleasant companions. The canoe is smaller, more easily upset, and
sooner worn out; and the Indian is said not to be so skillful in the
management of the batteau. He is, for the most part, less to be relied
on, and more disposed to sulks and whims. The utmost familiarity with
dead streams, or with the ocean, would not prepare a man for this
peculiar navigation; and the most skillful boatman anywhere else would
here be obliged to take out his boat and carry round a hundred times,
still with great risk, as well as delay, where the practiced
batteau-man poles up with comparative ease and safety. The hardy
"voyageur" pushes with incredible perseverance and success quite up to
the foot of the falls, and then only carries round some perpendicular
ledge, and launches again in

     "The torrent's smoothness, ere it dash below,"

to struggle with the boiling rapids above. The Indians say that the
river once ran both ways, one half up and the other down, but that,
since the white man came, it all runs down, and now they must
laboriously pole their canoes against the stream, and carry them over
numerous portages. In the summer, all stores--the grindstone and the
plow of the pioneer, flour, pork, and utensils for the explorer--must
be conveyed up the river in batteaux; and many a cargo and many a
boatman is lost in these waters. In the winter, however, which is very
equable and long, the ice is the great highway, and the loggers' team
penetrates to Chesuncook Lake, and still higher up, even two hundred
miles above Bangor. Imagine the solitary sled-track running far up
into the snowy and evergreen wilderness, hemmed in closely for a
hundred miles by the forest, and again stretching straight across the
broad surfaces of concealed lakes!

We were soon in the smooth water of the Quakish Lake, and took our
turns at rowing and paddling across it. It is a small, irregular, but
handsome lake, shut in on all sides by the forest, and showing no
traces of man but some low boom in a distant cove, reserved for spring
use. The spruce and cedar on its shores, hung with gray lichens,
looked at a distance like the ghosts of trees. Ducks were sailing here
and there on its surface, and a solitary loon, like a more living
wave,--a vital spot on the lake's surface,--laughed and frolicked, and
showed its straight leg, for our amusement. Joe Merry Mountain
appeared in the northwest, as if it were looking down on this lake
especially; and we had our first, but a partial view of Ktaadn, its
summit veiled in clouds, like a dark isthmus in that quarter,
connecting the heavens with the earth. After two miles of smooth
rowing across this lake, we found ourselves in the river again, which
was a continuous rapid for one mile, to the dam, requiring all the
strength and skill of our boatmen to pole up it.

This dam is a quite important and expensive work for this country,
whither cattle and horses cannot penetrate in the summer, raising the
whole river ten feet, and flooding, as they said, some sixty square
miles by means of the innumerable lakes with which the river connects.
It is a lofty and solid structure, with sloping piers, some distance
above, made of frames of logs filled with stones, to break the ice.[3]
Here every log pays toll as it passes through the sluices.

We filed into the rude loggers' camp at this place, such as I have
described, without ceremony, and the cook, at that moment the sole
occupant, at once set about preparing tea for his visitors. His
fireplace, which the rain had converted into a mud-puddle, was soon
blazing again, and we sat down on the log benches around it to dry us.
On the well-flattened and somewhat faded beds of arbor-vitæ leaves,
which stretched on either hand under the eaves behind us, lay an odd
leaf of the Bible, some genealogical chapter out of the Old Testament;
and, half buried by the leaves, we found Emerson's Address on West
India Emancipation, which had been left here formerly by one of our
company, and _had made two converts to the Liberty party_ here, as I
was told; also, an odd number of the _Westminster Review_, for 1834,
and a pamphlet entitled "History of the Erection of the Monument on
the Grave of Myron Holly." This was the readable or reading matter in
a lumberer's camp in the Maine woods, thirty miles from a road, which
would be given up to the bears in a fortnight. These things were well
thumbed and soiled. This gang was headed by one John Morrison, a good
specimen of a Yankee; and was necessarily composed of men not bred to
the business of dam-building, but who were jacks-at-all-trades, handy
with the axe, and other simple implements, and well skilled in wood
and water craft. We had hot cakes for our supper even here, white as
snowballs, but without butter, and the never-failing sweet cakes, with
which we filled our pockets, foreseeing that we should not soon meet
with the like again. Such delicate puffballs seemed a singular diet
for backwoodsmen. There was also tea without milk, sweetened with
molasses. And so, exchanging a word with John Morrison and his gang
when we had returned to the shore, and also exchanging our batteau for
a better still, we made haste to improve the little daylight that
remained. This camp, exactly twenty-nine miles from Mattawamkeag Point
by the way we had come, and about one hundred from Bangor by the
river, was the last human habitation of any kind in this direction.
Beyond, there was no trail, and the river and lakes, by batteaux and
canoes, was considered the only practicable route. We were about
thirty miles by the river from the summit of Ktaadn, which was in
sight, though not more than twenty, perhaps, in a straight line.

It being about the full of the moon, and a warm and pleasant evening,
we decided to row five miles by moonlight to the head of the North
Twin Lake, lest the wind should rise on the morrow. After one mile of
river, or what the boatmen call "thoroughfare,"--for the river becomes
at length only the connecting link between the lakes,--and some slight
rapid which had been mostly made smooth water by the dam, we entered
the North Twin Lake just after sundown, and steered across for the
river "thoroughfare," four miles distant. This is a noble sheet of
water, where one may get the impression which a new country and a
"lake of the woods" are fitted to create. There was the smoke of no
log hut nor camp of any kind to greet us, still less was any lover of
nature or musing traveler watching our batteau from the distant hills;
not even the Indian hunter was there, for he rarely climbs them, but
hugs the river like ourselves. No face welcomed us but the fine
fantastic sprays of free and happy evergreen trees, waving one above
another in their ancient home. At first the red clouds hung over the
western shore as gorgeously as if over a city, and the lake lay open
to the light with even a civilized aspect, as if expecting trade and
commerce, and towns and villas. We could distinguish the inlet to the
South Twin, which is said to be the larger, where the shore was misty
and blue, and it was worth the while to look thus through a narrow
opening across the entire expanse of a concealed lake to its own yet
more dim and distant shore. The shores rose gently to ranges of low
hills covered with forests; and though, in fact, the most valuable
white-pine timber, even about this lake, had been culled out, this
would never have been suspected by the voyager. The impression, which
indeed corresponded with the fact, was, as if we were upon a high
table-land between the States and Canada, the northern side of which
is drained by the St. John and Chaudière, the southern by the
Penobscot and Kennebec. There was no bold, mountainous shore, as we
might have expected, but only isolated hills and mountains rising here
and there from the plateau. The country is an archipelago of
lakes,--the lake-country of New England. Their levels vary but a few
feet, and the boatmen, by short portages, or by none at all, pass
easily from one to another. They say that at very high water the
Penobscot and the Kennebec flow into each other, or at any rate, that
you may lie with your face in the one and your toes in the other. Even
the Penobscot and St. John have been connected by a canal, so that the
lumber of the Allegash, instead of going down the St. John, comes down
the Penobscot; and the Indian's tradition, that the Penobscot once ran
both ways for his convenience, is, in one sense, partially realized
to-day.

None of our party but McCauslin had been above this lake, so we
trusted to him to pilot us, and we could not but confess the
importance of a pilot on these waters. While it is river, you will not
easily forget which way is up-stream; but when you enter a lake, the
river is completely lost, and you scan the distant shores in vain to
find where it comes in. A stranger is, for the time at least, lost,
and must set about a voyage of discovery first of all to find the
river. To follow the windings of the shore when the lake is ten miles,
or even more, in length, and of an irregularity which will not soon
be mapped, is a wearisome voyage, and will spend his time and his
provisions. They tell a story of a gang of experienced woodmen sent to
a location on this stream, who were thus lost in the wilderness of
lakes. They cut their way through thickets, and carried their baggage
and their boats over from lake to lake, sometimes several miles. They
carried into Millinocket Lake, which is on another stream, and is ten
miles square, and contains a hundred islands. They explored its shores
thoroughly, and then carried into another, and another, and it was a
week of toil and anxiety before they found the Penobscot River again,
and then their provisions were exhausted, and they were obliged to
return.

While Uncle George steered for a small island near the head of the
lake, now just visible, like a speck on the water, we rowed by turns
swiftly over its surface, singing such boat songs as we could
remember. The shores seemed at an indefinite distance in the
moonlight. Occasionally we paused in our singing and rested on our
oars, while we listened to hear if the wolves howled, for this is a
common serenade, and my companions affirmed that it was the most
dismal and unearthly of sounds; but we heard none this time. If we did
not _hear_, however, we did _listen_, not without a reasonable
expectation; that at least I have to tell,--only some utterly
uncivilized, big-throated owl hooted loud and dismally in the drear
and boughy wilderness, plainly not nervous about his solitary life,
nor afraid to hear the echoes of his voice there. We remembered also
that possibly moose were silently watching us from the distant coves,
or some surly bear or timid caribou had been startled by our singing.
It was with new emphasis that we sang there the Canadian boat song,--

     "Row, brothers, row, the stream runs fast,
     The rapids are near and the daylight's past!"

which describes precisely our own adventure, and was inspired by the
experience of a similar kind of life,--for the rapids were ever near,
and the daylight long past; the woods on shore looked dim, and many an
Utawas' tide here emptied into the lake.

     "Why should we yet our sail unfurl?
     There is not a breath the blue wave to curl!
     But, when the wind blows off the shore,
     Oh, sweetly we'll rest our weary oar."

     "Utawas' tide! this trembling moon
     Shall see us float o'er thy surges soon."

At last we glided past the "green isle," which had been our landmark,
all joining in the chorus; as if by the watery links of rivers and of
lakes we were about to float over unmeasured zones of earth, bound on
unimaginable adventures,--

     "Saint of this green isle! hear our prayers,
     Oh, grant us cool heavens and favoring airs!"

About nine o'clock we reached the river, and ran our boat into a
natural haven between some rocks, and drew her out on the sand. This
camping-ground McCauslin had been familiar with in his lumbering days,
and he now struck it unerringly in the moonlight, and we heard the
sound of the rill which would supply us with cool water emptying into
the lake. The first business was to make a fire, an operation which
was a little delayed by the wetness of the fuel and the ground, owing
to the heavy showers of the afternoon. The fire is the main comfort of
the camp, whether in summer or winter, and is about as ample at one
season as at another. It is as well for cheerfulness as for warmth and
dryness. It forms one side of the camp; one bright side at any rate.
Some were dispersed to fetch in dead trees and boughs, while Uncle
George felled the birches and beeches which stood convenient, and soon
we had a fire some ten feet long by three or four high, which rapidly
dried the sand before it. This was calculated to burn all night. We
next proceeded to pitch our tent; which operation was performed by
sticking our two spike-poles into the ground in a slanting direction,
about ten feet apart, for rafters, and then drawing our cotton cloth
over them, and tying it down at the ends, leaving it open in front,
shed-fashion. But this evening the wind carried the sparks on to the
tent and burned it. So we hastily drew up the batteau just within the
edge of the woods before the fire, and propping up one side three or
four feet high, spread the tent on the ground to lie on; and with the
corner of a blanket, or what more or less we could get to put over us,
lay down with our heads and bodies under the boat, and our feet and
legs on the sand toward the fire. At first we lay awake, talking of
our course, and finding ourselves in so convenient a posture for
studying the heavens, with the moon and stars shining in our faces,
our conversation naturally turned upon astronomy, and we recounted by
turns the most interesting discoveries in that science. But at length
we composed ourselves seriously to sleep. It was interesting, when
awakened at midnight, to watch the grotesque and fiend-like forms and
motions of some one of the party, who, not being able to sleep, had
got up silently to arouse the fire, and add fresh fuel, for a change;
now stealthily lugging a dead tree from out the dark, and heaving it
on, now stirring up the embers with his fork, or tiptoeing about to
observe the stars, watched, perchance, by half the prostrate party in
breathless silence; so much the more intense because they were awake,
while each supposed his neighbor sound asleep. Thus aroused, I, too,
brought fresh fuel to the fire, and then rambled along the sandy shore
in the moonlight, hoping to meet a moose come down to drink, or else a
wolf. The little rill tinkled the louder, and peopled all the
wilderness for me; and the glassy smoothness of the sleeping lake,
laving the shores of a new world, with the dark, fantastic rocks
rising here and there from its surface, made a scene not easily
described. It has left such an impression of stern, yet gentle,
wildness on my memory as will not soon be effaced. Not far from
midnight we were one after another awakened by rain falling on our
extremities; and as each was made aware of the fact by cold or wet, he
drew a long sigh and then drew up his legs, until gradually we had all
sidled round from lying at right angles with the boat, till our bodies
formed an acute angle with it, and were wholly protected. When next we
awoke, the moon and stars were shining again, and there were signs of
dawn in the east. I have been thus particular in order to convey some
idea of a night in the woods.

We had soon launched and loaded our boat, and, leaving our fire
blazing, were off again before breakfast. The lumberers rarely trouble
themselves to put out their fires, such is the dampness of the
primitive forest; and this is one cause, no doubt, of the frequent
fires in Maine, of which we hear so much on smoky days in
Massachusetts. The forests are held cheap after the white pine has
been culled out; and the explorers and hunters pray for rain only to
clear the atmosphere of smoke. The woods were so wet to-day, however,
that there was no danger of our fire spreading. After poling up half a
mile of river, or thoroughfare, we rowed a mile across the foot of
Pamadumcook Lake, which is the name given on the map to this whole
chain of lakes, as if there was but one, though they are, in each
instance, distinctly separated by a reach of the river, with its
narrow and rocky channel and its rapids. This lake, which is one of
the largest, stretched northwest ten miles, to hills and mountains in
the distance. McCauslin pointed to some distant, and as yet
inaccessible, forests of white pine, on the sides of a mountain in
that direction. The Joe Merry Lakes, which lay between us and
Moosehead, on the west, were recently, if they are not still,
"surrounded by some of the best timbered land in the State." By
another thoroughfare we passed into Deep Cove, a part of the same
lake, which makes up two miles, toward the northeast, and rowing two
miles across this, by another short thoroughfare, entered Ambejijis
Lake.

At the entrance to a lake we sometimes observed what is technically
called "fencing-stuff," or the unhewn timbers of which booms are
formed, either secured together in the water, or laid up on the rocks
and lashed to trees, for spring use. But it was always startling to
discover so plain a trail of civilized man there. I remember that I
was strangely affected, when we were returning, by the sight of a
ring-bolt well drilled into a rock, and fastened with lead, at the
head of this solitary Ambejijis Lake.

It was easy to see that driving logs must be an exciting as well as
arduous and dangerous business. All winter long the logger goes on
piling up the trees which he has trimmed and hauled in some dry ravine
at the head of a stream, and then in the spring he stands on the bank
and whistles for Rain and Thaw, ready to wring the perspiration out of
his shirt to swell the tide, till suddenly, with a whoop and halloo
from him, shutting his eyes, as if to bid farewell to the existing
state of things, a fair proportion of his winter's work goes
scrambling down the country, followed by his faithful dogs, Thaw and
Rain and Freshet and Wind, the whole pack in full cry, toward the
Orono Mills. Every log is marked with the owner's name, cut in the
sapwood with an axe or bored with an auger, so deep as not to be worn
off in the driving, and yet not so as to injure the timber; and it
requires considerable ingenuity to invent new and simple marks where
there are so many owners. They have quite an alphabet of their own,
which only the practiced can read. One of my companions read off from
his memorandum book some marks of his own logs, among which there were
crosses, belts, crow's feet, girdles, etc., as, "Y--girdle--crowfoot,"
and various other devices. When the logs have run the gauntlet of
innumerable rapids and falls, each on its own account, with more or
less jamming and bruising, those bearing various owners' marks being
mixed up together,--since all must take advantage of the same
freshet,--they are collected together at the heads of the lakes, and
surrounded by a boom fence of floating logs, to prevent their being
dispersed by the wind, and are thus towed all together, like a flock
of sheep, across the lake, where there is no current, by a windlass,
or boom-head, such as we sometimes saw standing on an island or
headland, and, if circumstances permit, with the aid of sails and
oars. Sometimes, notwithstanding, the logs are dispersed over many
miles of lake surface in a few hours by winds and freshets, and thrown
up on distant shores, where the driver can pick up only one or two at
a time, and return with them to the thoroughfare; and before he gets
his flock well through Ambejijis or Pamadumcook, he makes many a wet
and uncomfortable camp on the shore. He must be able to navigate a log
as if it were a canoe, and be as indifferent to cold and wet as a
muskrat. He uses a few efficient tools,--a lever commonly of rock
maple, six or seven feet long, with a stout spike in it, strongly
ferruled on, and a long spike-pole, with a screw at the end of the
spike to make it hold. The boys along shore learn to walk on floating
logs as city boys on sidewalks. Sometimes the logs are thrown up on
rocks in such positions as to be irrecoverable but by another freshet
as high, or they jam together at rapids and falls, and accumulate in
vast piles, which the driver must start at the risk of his life. Such
is the lumber business, which depends on many accidents, as the early
freezing of the rivers, that the teams may get up in season, a
sufficient freshet in the spring, to fetch the logs down, and many
others.[4] I quote Michaux on Lumbering on the Kennebec, then the
source of the best white pine lumber carried to England. "The persons
engaged in this branch of industry are generally emigrants from New
Hampshire.... In the summer they unite in small companies, and
traverse these vast solitudes in every direction, to ascertain the
places in which the pines abound. After cutting the grass and
converting it into hay for the nourishment of the cattle to be
employed in their labor, they return home. In the beginning of the
winter they enter the forests again, establish themselves in huts
covered with the bark of the canoe-birch, or the arbor-vitæ; and,
though the cold is so intense that the mercury sometimes remains for
several weeks from 40° to 50° [Fahr.] below the point of congelation,
they persevere, with unabated courage, in their work." According to
Springer, the company consists of choppers, swampers,--who make
roads,--barker and loader, teamster, and cook. "When the trees are
felled, they cut them into logs from fourteen to eighteen feet long,
and, by means of their cattle, which they employ with great dexterity,
drag them to the river, and, after stamping on them a mark of
property, roll them on its frozen bosom. At the breaking of the ice,
in the spring, they float down with the current.... The logs that are
not drawn the first year," adds Michaux, "are attacked by large worms,
which form holes about two lines in diameter, in every direction; but,
if stripped of their bark, they will remain uninjured for thirty
years."

Ambejijis, this quiet Sunday morning, struck me as the most beautiful
lake we had seen. It is said to be one of the deepest. We had the
fairest view of Joe Merry, Double Top, and Ktaadn, from its surface.
The summit of the latter had a singularly flat, table-land appearance,
like a short highway, where a demigod might be let down to take a turn
or two in an afternoon, to settle his dinner. We rowed a mile and a
half to near the head of the lake, and, pushing through a field of
lily-pads, landed, to cook our breakfast, by the side of a large rock,
known to McCauslin. Our breakfast consisted of tea, with hard-bread
and pork, and fried salmon, which we ate with forks neatly whittled
from alder twigs, which grew there, off strips of birch-bark for
plates. The tea was black tea, without milk to color or sugar to
sweeten it, and two tin dippers were our tea cups. This beverage is as
indispensable to the loggers as to any gossiping old women in the
land, and they, no doubt, derive great comfort from it. Here was the
site of an old logger's camp, remembered by McCauslin, now overgrown
with weeds and bushes. In the midst of a dense underwood we noticed a
whole brick, on a rock, in a small run, clean and red and square as in
a brick-yard, which had been brought thus far formerly for tamping.
Some of us afterward regretted that we had not carried this on with us
to the top of the mountain, to be left there for our mark. It would
certainly have been a simple evidence of civilized man. McCauslin said
that large wooden crosses, made of oak, still sound, were sometimes
found standing in this wilderness, which were set up by the first
Catholic missionaries who came through to the Kennebec.

In the next nine miles, which were the extent of our voyage, and which
it took us the rest of the day to get over, we rowed across several
small lakes, poled up numerous rapids and thoroughfares, and carried
over four portages. I will give the names and distances, for the
benefit of future tourists. First, after leaving Ambejijis Lake, we
had a quarter of a mile of rapids to the portage, or carry of ninety
rods around Ambejijis Falls; then a mile and a half through Passamagamet
Lake, which is narrow and river-like, to the falls of the same
name,--Ambejijis stream coming in on the right; then two miles through
Katepskonegan Lake to the portage of ninety rods around Katepskonegan
Falls, which name signifies "carrying-place,"--Passamagamet stream
coming in on the left; then three miles through Pockwockomus Lake, a
slight expansion of the river, to the portage of forty rods around the
falls of the same name,--Katepskonegan stream coming in on the left;
then three quarters of a mile through Aboljacarmegus Lake, similar to
the last, to the portage of forty rods around the falls of the same
name; then half a mile of rapid water to the Sowadnehunk deadwater,
and the Aboljacknagesic stream.

This is generally the order of names as you ascend the river: First,
the lake, or, if there is no expansion, the deadwater; then the falls;
then the stream emptying into the lake, or river above, all of the
same name. First we came to Passamagamet Lake, then to Passamagamet
Falls, then to Passamagamet Stream, emptying in. This order and
identity of names, it will be perceived, is quite philosophical, since
the deadwater or lake is always at least partially produced by the
stream emptying in above; and the first fall below, which is the
outlet of that lake, and where that tributary water makes its first
plunge, also naturally bears the same name.

At the portage around Ambejijis Falls I observed a pork-barrel on the
shore, with a hole eight or nine inches square cut in one side, which
was set against an upright rock; but the bears, without turning or
upsetting the barrel, had gnawed a hole in the opposite side, which
looked exactly like an enormous rat-hole, big enough to put their
heads in; and at the bottom of the barrel were still left a few
mangled and slabbered slices of pork. It is usual for the lumberers to
leave such supplies as they cannot conveniently carry along with them
at carries or camps, to which the next comers do not scruple to help
themselves, they being the property, commonly, not of an individual,
but a company, who can afford to deal liberally.

I will describe particularly how we got over some of these portages
and rapids, in order that the reader may get an idea of the boatman's
life. At Ambejijis Falls, for instance, there was the roughest path
imaginable cut through the woods; at first up hill, at an angle of
nearly forty-five degrees, over rocks and logs without end. This was
the manner of the portage. We first carried over our baggage, and
deposited it on the shore at the other end; then, returning to the
batteau, we dragged it up the hill by the painter, and onward, with
frequent pauses, over half the portage. But this was a bungling way,
and would soon have worn out the boat. Commonly, three men walk over
with a batteau weighing from three to five or six hundred pounds on
their heads and shoulders, the tallest standing under the middle of
the boat, which is turned over, and one at each end, or else there are
two at the bows. More cannot well take hold at once. But this requires
some practice, as well as strength, and is in any case extremely
laborious, and wearing to the constitution, to follow. We were, on the
whole, rather an invalid party, and could render our boatmen but
little assistance. Our two men at length took the batteau upon their
shoulders, and, while two of us steadied it, to prevent it from
rocking and wearing into their shoulders, on which they placed their
hats folded, walked bravely over the remaining distance, with two or
three pauses. In the same manner they accomplished the other portages.
With this crushing weight they must climb and stumble along over
fallen trees and slippery rocks of all sizes, where those who walked
by the sides were continually brushed off, such was the narrowness of
the path. But we were fortunate not to have to cut our path in the
first place. Before we launched our boat, we scraped the bottom smooth
again, with our knives, where it had rubbed on the rocks, to save
friction.

To avoid the difficulties of the portage, our men determined to "warp
up" the Passamagamet Falls; so while the rest walked over the portage
with the baggage, I remained in the batteau, to assist in warping up.
We were soon in the midst of the rapids, which were more swift and
tumultuous than any we had poled up, and had turned to the side of the
stream for the purpose of warping, when the boatmen, who felt some
pride in their skill, and were ambitious to do something more than
usual, for my benefit, as I surmised, took one more view of the
rapids, or rather the falls; and, in answer to our question, whether
we couldn't get up there, the other answered that he guessed he'd try
it. So we pushed again into the midst of the stream, and began to
struggle with the current. I sat in the middle of the boat to trim it,
moving slightly to the right or left as it grazed a rock. With an
uncertain and wavering motion we wound and bolted our way up, until
the bow was actually raised two feet above the stern at the steepest
pitch; and then, when everything depended upon his exertions, the
bowman's pole snapped in two; but before he had time to take the spare
one, which I reached him, he had saved himself with the fragment upon
a rock; and so we got up by a hair's breadth; and Uncle George
exclaimed that that was never done before, and he had not tried it if
he had not known whom he had got in the bow, nor he in the bow, if he
had not known him in the stern. At this place there was a regular
portage cut through the woods, and our boatmen had never known a
batteau to ascend the falls. As near as I can remember, there was a
perpendicular fall here, at the worst place of the whole Penobscot
River, two or three feet at least. I could not sufficiently admire the
skill and coolness with which they performed this feat, never speaking
to each other. The bowman, not looking behind, but knowing exactly
what the other is about, works as if he worked alone. Now sounding in
vain for a bottom in fifteen feet of water, while the boat falls back
several rods, held straight only with the greatest skill and exertion;
or, while the sternman obstinately holds his ground, like a turtle,
the bowman springs from side to side with wonderful suppleness and
dexterity, scanning the rapids and the rocks with a thousand eyes; and
now, having got a bite at last, with a lusty shove, which makes his
pole bend and quiver, and the whole boat tremble, he gains a few feet
upon the river. To add to the danger, the poles are liable at any time
to be caught between the rocks, and wrenched out of their hands,
leaving them at the mercy of the rapids,--the rocks, as it were, lying
in wait, like so many alligators, to catch them in their teeth, and
jerk them from your hands, before you have stolen an effectual shove
against their palates. The pole is set close to the boat, and the prow
is made to overshoot, and just turn the corners of the rocks, in the
very teeth of the rapids. Nothing but the length and lightness, and
the slight draught of the batteau, enables them to make any headway.
The bowman must quickly choose his course; there is no time to
deliberate. Frequently the boat is shoved between rocks where both
sides touch, and the waters on either hand are a perfect maelstrom.

Half a mile above this two of us tried our hands at poling up a slight
rapid; and we were just surmounting the last difficulty, when an
unlucky rock confounded our calculations; and while the batteau was
sweeping round irrecoverably amid the whirlpool, we were obliged to
resign the poles to more skillful hands.

Katepskonegan is one of the shallowest and weediest of the lakes, and
looked as if it might abound in pickerel. The falls of the same name,
where we stopped to dine, are considerable and quite picturesque. Here
Uncle George had seen trout caught by the barrelful; but they would
not rise to our bait at this hour. Halfway over this carry, thus far
in the Maine wilderness on its way to the Provinces, we noticed a
large, flaming, Oak Hall handbill, about two feet long, wrapped round
the trunk of a pine, from which the bark had been stripped, and to
which it was fast glued by the pitch. This should be recorded among
the advantages of this mode of advertising, that so, possibly, even
the bears and wolves, moose, deer, otter, and beaver, not to mention
the Indian, may learn where they can fit themselves according to the
latest fashion, or, at least, recover some of their own lost garments.
We christened this the Oak Hall carry.

The forenoon was as serene and placid on this wild stream in the
woods, as we are apt to imagine that Sunday in summer usually is in
Massachusetts. We were occasionally startled by the scream of a bald
eagle, sailing over the stream in front of our batteau; or of the fish
hawks on whom he levies his contributions. There were, at intervals,
small meadows of a few acres on the sides of the stream, waving with
uncut grass, which attracted the attention of our boatmen, who
regretted that they were not nearer to their clearings, and calculated
how many stacks they might cut. Two or three men sometimes spend the
summer by themselves, cutting the grass in these meadows, to sell to
the loggers in the winter, since it will fetch a higher price on the
spot than in any market in the State. On a small isle, covered with
this kind of rush, or cut-grass, on which we landed to consult about
our further course, we noticed the recent track of a moose, a large,
roundish hole in the soft, wet ground, evincing the great size and
weight of the animal that made it. They are fond of the water, and
visit all these island meadows, swimming as easily from island to
island as they make their way through the thickets on land. Now and
then we passed what McCauslin called a pokelogan, an Indian term for
what the drivers might have reason to call a poke-logs-in, an inlet
that leads nowhere. If you get in, you have got to get out again the
same way. These, and the frequent "runrounds" which come into the
river again, would embarrass an inexperienced voyager not a little.

The carry around Pockwockomus Falls was exceedingly rough and rocky,
the batteau having to be lifted directly from the water up four or
five feet on to a rock, and launched again down a similar bank. The
rocks on this portage were covered with the _dents_ made by the spikes
in the lumberers' boots while staggering over under the weight of
their batteaux; and you could see where the surface of some large
rocks on which they had rested their batteaux was worn quite smooth
with use. As it was, we had carried over but half the usual portage at
this place for this stage of the water, and launched our boat in the
smooth wave just curving to the fall, prepared to struggle with the
most violent rapid we had to encounter. The rest of the party walked
over the remainder of the portage, while I remained with the boatmen
to assist in warping up. One had to hold the boat while the others got
in to prevent it from going over the falls. When we had pushed up the
rapids as far as possible, keeping close to the shore, Tom seized the
painter and leaped out upon a rock just visible in the water, but he
lost his footing, notwithstanding his spiked boots, and was instantly
amid the rapids; but recovering himself by good luck, and reaching
another rock, he passed the painter to me, who had followed him, and
took his place again in the bows. Leaping from rock to rock in the
shoal water, close to the shore, and now and then getting a bite with
the rope round an upright one, I held the boat while one reset his
pole, and then all three forced it upward against any rapid. This was
"warping up." When a part of us walked round at such a place, we
generally took the precaution to take out the most valuable part of
the baggage for fear of being swamped.

As we poled up a swift rapid for half a mile above Aboljacarmegus
Falls, some of the party read their own marks on the huge logs which
lay piled up high and dry on the rocks on either hand, the relics
probably of a jam which had taken place here in the Great Freshet in
the spring. Many of these would have to wait for another great
freshet, perchance, if they lasted so long, before they could be got
off. It was singular enough to meet with property of theirs which they
had never seen, and where they had never been before, thus detained by
freshets and rocks when on its way to them. Methinks that must be
where all my property lies, cast up on the rocks on some distant and
unexplored stream, and waiting for an unheard-of freshet to fetch it
down. O make haste, ye gods, with your winds and rains, and start the
jam before it rots!

The last half mile carried us to the Sowadnehunk Deadwater, so called
from the stream of the same name, signifying "running between
mountains," an important tributary which comes in a mile above. Here
we decided to camp, about twenty miles from the Dam, at the mouth of
Murch Brook and the Aboljacknagesic, mountain streams, broad off from
Ktaadn, and about a dozen miles from its summit, having made fifteen
miles this day.

We had been told by McCauslin that we should here find trout enough;
so, while some prepared the camp, the rest fell to fishing. Seizing
the birch poles which some party of Indians, or white hunters, had
left on the shore, and baiting our hooks with pork, and with trout,
as soon as they were caught, we cast our lines into the mouth of the
Aboljacknagesic, a clear, swift, shallow stream, which came in from
Ktaadn. Instantly a shoal of white chivin (_Leuciscus pulchellus_),
silvery roaches, cousin-trout, or what not, large and small, prowling
thereabouts, fell upon our bait, and one after another were landed
amidst the bushes. Anon their cousins, the true trout, took their
turn, and alternately the speckled trout, and the silvery roaches,
swallowed the bait as fast as we could throw in; and the finest
specimens of both that I have ever seen, the largest one weighing
three pounds, were heaved upon the shore, though at first in vain, to
wriggle down into the water again, for we stood in the boat; but soon
we learned to remedy this evil; for one, who had lost his hook, stood
on shore to catch them as they fell in a perfect shower around
him,--sometimes, wet and slippery, full in his face and bosom, as his
arms were outstretched to receive them. While yet alive, before their
tints had faded, they glistened like the fairest flowers, the product
of primitive rivers; and he could hardly trust his senses, as he stood
over them, that these jewels should have swam away in that
Aboljacknagesic water for so long, so many dark ages;--these bright
fluviatile flowers, seen of Indians only, made beautiful, the Lord
only knows why, to swim there! I could understand better for this, the
truth of mythology, the fables of Proteus, and all those beautiful
sea-monsters,--how all history, indeed, put to a terrestrial use, is
mere history; but put to a celestial, is mythology always.

But there is the rough voice of Uncle George, who commands at the
frying-pan, to send over what you've got, and then you may stay till
morning. The pork sizzles and cries for fish. Luckily for the foolish
race, and this particularly foolish generation of trout, the night
shut down at last, not a little deepened by the dark side of Ktaadn,
which, like a permanent shadow, reared itself from the eastern bank.
Lescarbot, writing in 1609, tells us that the Sieur Champdoré, who,
with one of the people of the Sieur de Monts, ascended some fifty
leagues up the St. John in 1608, found the fish so plenty, "qu'en
mettant la chaudière sur le feu ils en avoient pris suffisamment pour
eux disner avant que l'eau fust chaude." Their descendants here are no
less numerous. So we accompanied Tom into the woods to cut cedar twigs
for our bed. While he went ahead with the axe and lopped off the
smallest twigs of the flat-leaved cedar, the arbor-vitæ of the
gardens, we gathered them up, and returned with them to the boat,
until it was loaded. Our bed was made with as much care and skill as a
roof is shingled; beginning at the foot, and laying the twig end of
the cedar upward, we advanced to the head, a course at a time, thus
successively covering the stub-ends, and producing a soft and level
bed. For us six it was about ten feet long by six in breadth. This
time we lay under our tent, having pitched it more prudently with
reference to the wind and the flame, and the usual huge fire blazed in
front. Supper was eaten off a large log, which some freshet had thrown
up. This night we had a dish of arbor-vitæ or cedar tea, which the
lumberer sometimes uses when other herbs fail,--

     "A quart of arbor-vitæ,
     To make him strong and mighty,"--

but I had no wish to repeat the experiment. It had too medicinal a
taste for my palate. There was the skeleton of a moose here, whose
bones some Indian hunters had picked on this very spot.

In the night I dreamed of trout-fishing; and, when at length I awoke,
it seemed a fable that this painted fish swam there so near my couch,
and rose to our hooks the last evening, and I doubted if I had not
dreamed it all. So I arose before dawn to test its truth, while my
companions were still sleeping. There stood Ktaadn with distinct and
cloudless outline in the moonlight; and the rippling of the rapids was
the only sound to break the stillness. Standing on the shore, I once
more cast my line into the stream, and found the dream to be real and
the fable true. The speckled trout and silvery roach, like
flying-fish, sped swiftly through the moonlight air, describing bright
arcs on the dark side of Ktaadn, until moonlight, now fading into
daylight, brought satiety to my mind, and the minds of my companions,
who had joined me.

By six o'clock, having mounted our packs and a good blanketful of
trout, ready dressed, and swung up such baggage and provision as we
wished to leave behind upon the tops of saplings, to be out of the
reach of bears, we started for the summit of the mountain, distant, as
Uncle George said the boatmen called it, about four miles, but as I
judged, and as it proved, nearer fourteen. He had never been any
nearer the mountain than this, and there was not the slightest trace
of man to guide us farther in this direction. At first, pushing a few
rods up the Aboljacknagesic, or "open-land stream," we fastened our
batteau to a tree, and traveled up the north side, through burnt
lands, now partially overgrown with young aspens and other shrubbery;
but soon, recrossing this stream, where it was about fifty or sixty
feet wide, upon a jam of logs and rocks,--and you could cross it by
this means almost anywhere,--we struck at once for the highest peak,
over a mile or more of comparatively open land, still very gradually
ascending the while. Here it fell to my lot, as the oldest
mountain-climber, to take the lead. So, scanning the woody side of the
mountain, which lay still at an indefinite distance, stretched out
some seven or eight miles in length before us, we determined to steer
directly for the base of the highest peak, leaving a large slide, by
which, as I have since learned, some of our predecessors ascended, on
our left. This course would lead us parallel to a dark seam in the
forest, which marked the bed of a torrent, and over a slight spur,
which extended southward from the main mountain, from whose bare
summit we could get an outlook over the country, and climb directly up
the peak, which would then be close at hand. Seen from this point, a
bare ridge at the extremity of the open land, Ktaadn presented a
different aspect from any mountain I have seen, there being a greater
proportion of naked rock rising abruptly from the forest; and we
looked up at this blue barrier as if it were some fragment of a wall
which anciently bounded the earth in that direction. Setting the
compass for a northeast course, which was the bearing of the southern
base of the highest peak, we were soon buried in the woods.

We soon began to meet with traces of bears and moose, and those of
rabbits were everywhere visible. The tracks of moose, more or less
recent, to speak literally, covered every square rod on the sides of
the mountain; and these animals are probably more numerous there now
than ever before, being driven into this wilderness, from all sides,
by the settlements. The track of a full-grown moose is like that of a
cow, or larger, and of the young, like that of a calf. Sometimes we
found ourselves traveling in faint paths, which they had made, like
cow-paths in the woods, only far more indistinct, being rather
openings, affording imperfect vistas through the dense underwood, than
trodden paths; and everywhere the twigs had been browsed by them,
clipped as smoothly as if by a knife. The bark of trees was stripped
up by them to the height of eight or nine feet, in long, narrow
strips, an inch wide, still showing the distinct marks of their teeth.
We expected nothing less than to meet a herd of them every moment, and
our Nimrod held his shooting-iron in readiness; but we did not go out
of our way to look for them, and, though numerous, they are so wary
that the unskillful hunter might range the forest a long time before
he could get sight of one. They are sometimes dangerous to encounter,
and will not turn out for the hunter, but furiously rush upon him and
trample him to death, unless he is lucky enough to avoid them by dodging
round a tree. The largest are nearly as large as a horse, and weigh
sometimes one thousand pounds; and it is said that they can step over a
five-foot gate in their ordinary walk. They are described as exceedingly
awkward-looking animals, with their long legs and short bodies, making
a ludicrous figure when in full run, but making great headway,
nevertheless. It seemed a mystery to us how they could thread these
woods, which it required all our suppleness to accomplish,--climbing,
stooping, and winding, alternately. They are said to drop their long
and branching horns, which usually spread five or six feet, on their
backs, and make their way easily by the weight of their bodies. Our
boatmen said, but I know not with how much truth, that their horns are
apt to be gnawed away by vermin while they sleep. Their flesh, which
is more like beef than venison, is common in Bangor market.

We had proceeded on thus seven or eight miles, till about noon, with
frequent pauses to refresh the weary ones, crossing a considerable
mountain stream, which we conjectured to be Murch Brook, at whose
mouth we had camped, all the time in woods, without having once seen
the summit, and rising very gradually, when the boatmen beginning to
despair a little, and fearing that we were leaving the mountain on one
side of us, for they had not entire faith in the compass, McCauslin
climbed a tree, from the top of which he could see the peak, when it
appeared that we had not swerved from a right line, the compass down
below still ranging with his arm, which pointed to the summit. By the
side of a cool mountain rill, amid the woods, where the water began to
partake of the purity and transparency of the air, we stopped to cook
some of our fishes, which we had brought thus far in order to save
our hard-bread and pork, in the use of which we had put ourselves on
short allowance. We soon had a fire blazing, and stood around it,
under the damp and sombre forest of firs and birches, each with a
sharpened stick, three or four feet in length, upon which he had
spitted his trout, or roach, previously well gashed and salted, our
sticks radiating like the spokes of a wheel from one centre, and each
crowding his particular fish into the most desirable exposure, not
with the truest regard always to his neighbor's rights. Thus we
regaled ourselves, drinking meanwhile at the spring, till one man's
pack, at least, was considerably lightened, when we again took up our
line of march.

At length we reached an elevation sufficiently bare to afford a view
of the summit, still distant and blue, almost as if retreating from
us. A torrent, which proved to be the same we had crossed, was seen
tumbling down in front, literally from out of the clouds. But this
glimpse at our whereabouts was soon lost, and we were buried in the
woods again. The wood was chiefly yellow birch, spruce, fir,
mountain-ash, or round-wood, as the Maine people call it, and
moose-wood. It was the worst kind of traveling; sometimes like the
densest scrub oak patches with us. The cornel, or bunch-berries, were
very abundant, as well as Solomon's-seal and moose-berries.
Blueberries were distributed along our whole route; and in one place
the bushes were drooping with the weight of the fruit, still as fresh
as ever. It was the 7th of September. Such patches afforded a grateful
repast, and served to bait the tired party forward. When any lagged
behind, the cry of "blueberries" was most effectual to bring them up.
Even at this elevation we passed through a moose-yard, formed by a
large flat rock, four or five rods square, where they tread down the
snow in winter. At length, fearing that if we held the direct course
to the summit, we should not find any water near our camping-ground,
we gradually swerved to the west, till, at four o'clock, we struck
again the torrent which I have mentioned, and here, in view of the
summit, the weary party decided to camp that night.

While my companions were seeking a suitable spot for this purpose, I
improved the little daylight that was left in climbing the mountain
alone. We were in a deep and narrow ravine, sloping up to the clouds,
at an angle of nearly forty-five degrees, and hemmed in by walls of
rock, which were at first covered with low trees, then with
impenetrable thickets of scraggy birches and spruce trees, and with
moss, but at last bare of all vegetation but lichens, and almost
continually draped in clouds. Following up the course of the torrent
which occupied this,--and I mean to lay some emphasis on this word
_up_,--pulling myself up by the side of perpendicular falls of twenty
or thirty feet, by the roots of firs and birches, and then, perhaps,
walking a level rod or two in the thin stream, for it took up the
whole road, ascending by huge steps, as it were, a giant's stairway,
down which a river flowed, I had soon cleared the trees, and paused on
the successive shelves, to look back over the country. The torrent was
from fifteen to thirty feet wide, without a tributary, and seemingly
not diminishing in breadth as I advanced; but still it came rushing
and roaring down, with a copious tide, over and amidst masses of bare
rock, from the very clouds, as though a waterspout had just burst over
the mountain. Leaving this at last, I began to work my way, scarcely
less arduous than Satan's anciently through Chaos, up the nearest
though not the highest peak. At first scrambling on all fours over the
tops of ancient black spruce trees (_Abies nigra_), old as the flood,
from two to ten or twelve feet in height, their tops flat and
spreading, and their foliage blue, and nipped with cold, as if for
centuries they had ceased growing upward against the bleak sky, the
solid cold. I walked some good rods erect upon the tops of these
trees, which were overgrown with moss and mountain cranberries. It
seemed that in the course of time they had filled up the intervals
between the huge rocks, and the cold wind had uniformly leveled all
over. Here the principle of vegetation was hard put to it. There was
apparently a belt of this kind running quite round the mountain,
though, perhaps, nowhere so remarkable as here. Once, slumping
through, I looked down ten feet, into a dark and cavernous region, and
saw the stem of a spruce, on whose top I stood, as on a mass of coarse
basket-work, fully nine inches in diameter at the ground. These holes
were bears' dens, and the bears were even then at home. This was the
sort of garden I made my way _over_, for an eighth of a mile, at the
risk, it is true, of treading on some of the plants, not seeing any
path _through_ it,--certainly the most treacherous and porous country
I ever traveled.

                     "Nigh foundered on he fares,
     Treading the crude consistence, half on foot,
     Half flying,"

But nothing could exceed the toughness of the twigs,--not one snapped
under my weight, for they had slowly grown. Having slumped, scrambled,
rolled, bounced, and walked, by turns, over this scraggy country, I
arrived upon a side-hill, or rather side-mountain, where rocks, gray,
silent rocks, were the flocks and herds that pastured, chewing a rocky
cud at sunset. They looked at me with hard gray eyes, without a bleat
or a low. This brought me to the skirt of a cloud, and bounded my walk
that night. But I had already seen that Maine country when I turned
about, waving, flowing, rippling, down below.

When I returned to my companions, they had selected a camping-ground
on the torrent's edge, and were resting on the ground; one was on the
sick list, rolled in a blanket, on a damp shelf of rock. It was a
savage and dreary scenery enough, so wildly rough, that they looked
long to find a level and open space for the tent. We could not well
camp higher, for want of fuel; and the trees here seemed so evergreen
and sappy, that we almost doubted if they would acknowledge the
influence of fire; but fire prevailed at last, and blazed here, too,
like a good citizen of the world. Even at this height we met with
frequent traces of moose, as well as of bears. As here was no cedar,
we made our bed of coarser feathered spruce; but at any rate the
feathers were plucked from the live tree. It was, perhaps, even a more
grand and desolate place for a night's lodging than the summit would
have been, being in the neighborhood of those wild trees, and of the
torrent. Some more aërial and finer-spirited winds rushed and roared
through the ravine all night, from time to time arousing our fire, and
dispersing the embers about. It was as if we lay in the very nest of a
young whirlwind. At midnight, one of my bed-fellows, being startled in
his dreams by the sudden blazing up to its top of a fir tree, whose
green boughs were dried by the heat, sprang up, with a cry, from his
bed, thinking the world on fire, and drew the whole camp after him.

In the morning, after whetting our appetite on some raw pork, a wafer
of hard-bread, and a dipper of condensed cloud or waterspout, we all
together began to make our way up the falls, which I have described;
this time choosing the right hand, or highest peak, which was not the
one I had approached before. But soon my companions were lost to my
sight behind the mountain ridge in my rear, which still seemed ever
retreating before me, and I climbed alone over huge rocks, loosely
poised, a mile or more, still edging toward the clouds; for though the
day was clear elsewhere, the summit was concealed by mist. The
mountain seemed a vast aggregation of loose rocks, as if some time it
had rained rocks, and they lay as they fell on the mountain sides,
nowhere fairly at rest, but leaning on each other, all rocking stones,
with cavities between, but scarcely any soil or smoother shelf. They
were the raw materials of a planet dropped from an unseen quarry,
which the vast chemistry of nature would anon work up, or work down,
into the smiling and verdant plains and valleys of earth. This was an
undone extremity of the globe; as in lignite we see coal in the
process of formation.

At length I entered within the skirts of the cloud which seemed
forever drifting over the summit, and yet would never be gone, but was
generated out of that pure air as fast as it flowed away; and when, a
quarter of a mile farther, I reached the summit of the ridge, which
those who have seen in clearer weather say is about five miles long,
and contains a thousand acres of table-land, I was deep within the
hostile ranks of clouds, and all objects were obscured by them. Now
the wind would blow me out a yard of clear sunlight, wherein I stood;
then a gray, dawning light was all it could accomplish, the cloud-line
ever rising and falling with the wind's intensity. Sometimes it seemed
as if the summit would be cleared in a few moments, and smile in
sunshine; but what was gained on one side was lost on another. It was
like sitting in a chimney and waiting for the smoke to blow away. It
was, in fact, a cloud-factory,--these were the cloud-works, and the
wind turned them off done from the cool, bare rocks. Occasionally,
when the windy columns broke in to me, I caught sight of a dark, damp
crag to the right or left; the mist driving ceaselessly between it and
me. It reminded me of the creations of the old epic and dramatic
poets, of Atlas, Vulcan, the Cyclops, and Prometheus. Such was
Caucasus and the rock where Prometheus was bound. Æschylus had no
doubt visited such scenery as this. It was vast, Titanic, and such as
man never inhabits. Some part of the beholder, even some vital part,
seems to escape through the loose grating of his ribs as he ascends.
He is more lone than you can imagine. There is less of substantial
thought and fair understanding in him than in the plains where men
inhabit. His reason is dispersed and shadowy, more thin and subtile,
like the air. Vast, Titanic, inhuman Nature has got him at
disadvantage, caught him alone, and pilfers him of some of his divine
faculty. She does not smile on him as in the plains. She seems to say
sternly, Why came ye here before your time. This ground is not
prepared for you. Is it not enough that I smile in the valleys? I have
never made this soil for thy feet, this air for thy breathing, these
rocks for thy neighbors. I cannot pity nor fondle thee here, but
forever relentlessly drive thee hence to where I _am_ kind. Why seek
me where I have not called thee, and then complain because you find me
but a stepmother? Shouldst thou freeze or starve, or shudder thy life
away, here is no shrine, nor altar, nor any access to my ear.

     "Chaos and ancient Night, I come no spy
     With purpose to explore or to disturb
     The secrets of your realm, but ...
     .    .    .    .    .    .    as my way
     Lies through your spacious empire up to light."

The tops of mountains are among the unfinished parts of the globe,
whither it is a slight insult to the gods to climb and pry into their
secrets, and try their effect on our humanity. Only daring and
insolent men, perchance, go there. Simple races, as savages, do not
climb mountains,--their tops are sacred and mysterious tracts never
visited by them. Pomola is always angry with those who climb to the
summit of Ktaadn.

According to Jackson, who, in his capacity of geological surveyor of
the State, has accurately measured it, the altitude of Ktaadn is 5300
feet, or a little more than one mile above the level of the sea, and
he adds, "It is then evidently the highest point in the State of
Maine, and is the most abrupt granite mountain in New England." The
peculiarities of that spacious table-land on which I was standing, as
well as the remarkable semicircular precipice or basin on the eastern
side, were all concealed by the mist. I had brought my whole pack to
the top, not knowing but I should have to make my descent to the
river, and possibly to the settled portion of the State alone, and by
some other route, and wishing to have a complete outfit with me. But
at length fearing that my companions would be anxious to reach the
river before night, and knowing that the clouds might rest on the
mountain for days, I was compelled to descend. Occasionally, as I came
down, the wind would blow me a vista open, through which I could see
the country eastward, boundless forests, and lakes, and streams,
gleaming in the sun, some of them emptying into the East Branch. There
were also new mountains in sight in that direction. Now and then some
small bird of the sparrow family would flit away before me, unable to
command its course, like a fragment of the gray rock blown off by the
wind.

I found my companions where I had left them, on the side of the peak,
gathering the mountain cranberries, which filled every crevice between
the rocks, together with blueberries, which had a spicier flavor the
higher up they grew, but were not the less agreeable to our palates.
When the country is settled, and roads are made, these cranberries
will perhaps become an article of commerce. From this elevation, just
on the skirts of the clouds, we could overlook the country, west and
south, for a hundred miles. There it was, the State of Maine, which we
had seen on the map, but not much like that,--immeasurable forest for
the sun to shine on, that eastern _stuff_ we hear of in Massachusetts.
No clearing, no house. It did not look as if a solitary traveler had
cut so much as a walking-stick there. Countless lakes,--Moosehead in
the southwest, forty miles long by ten wide, like a gleaming silver
platter at the end of the table; Chesuncook, eighteen long by three
wide, without an island; Millinocket, on the south, with its hundred
islands; and a hundred others without a name; and mountains, also,
whose names, for the most part, are known only to the Indians. The
forest looked like a firm grass sward, and the effect of these lakes
in its midst has been well compared, by one who has since visited this
same spot, to that of a "mirror broken into a thousand fragments, and
wildly scattered over the grass, reflecting the full blaze of the
sun." It was a large farm for somebody, when cleared. According to the
Gazetteer, which was printed before the boundary question was settled,
this single Penobscot County, in which we were, was larger than the
whole State of Vermont, with its fourteen counties; and this was only
a part of the wild lands of Maine. We are concerned now, however,
about natural, not political limits. We were about eighty miles, as
the bird flies, from Bangor, or one hundred and fifteen, as we had
ridden, and walked, and paddled. We had to console ourselves with the
reflection that this view was probably as good as that from the peak,
as far as it went; and what were a mountain without its attendant
clouds and mists? Like ourselves, neither Bailey nor Jackson had
obtained a clear view from the summit.

Setting out on our return to the river, still at an early hour in the
day, we decided to follow the course of the torrent, which we supposed
to be Murch Brook, as long as it would not lead us too far out of our
way. We thus traveled about four miles in the very torrent itself,
continually crossing and recrossing it, leaping from rock to rock, and
jumping with the stream down falls of seven or eight feet, or
sometimes sliding down on our backs in a thin sheet of water. This
ravine had been the scene of an extraordinary freshet in the spring,
apparently accompanied by a slide from the mountain. It must have been
filled with a stream of stones and water, at least twenty feet above
the present level of the torrent. For a rod or two, on either side of
its channel, the trees were barked and splintered up to their tops,
the birches bent over, twisted, and sometimes finely split, like a
stable-broom; some, a foot in diameter, snapped off, and whole clumps
of trees bent over with the weight of rocks piled on them. In one
place we noticed a rock, two or three feet in diameter, lodged nearly
twenty feet high in the crotch of a tree. For the whole four miles we
saw but one rill emptying in, and the volume of water did not seem to
be increased from the first. We traveled thus very rapidly with a
downward impetus, and grew remarkably expert at leaping from rock to
rock, for leap we must, and leap we did, whether there was any rock at
the right distance or not. It was a pleasant picture when the foremost
turned about and looked up the winding ravine, walled in with rocks
and the green forest, to see, at intervals of a rod or two, a
red-shirted or green-jacketed mountaineer against the white torrent,
leaping down the channel with his pack on his back, or pausing upon a
convenient rock in the midst of the torrent to mend a rent in his
clothes, or unstrap the dipper at his belt to take a draught of the
water. At one place we were startled by seeing, on a little sandy
shelf by the side of the stream, the fresh print of a man's foot, and
for a moment realized how Robinson Crusoe felt in a similar case; but
at last we remembered that we had struck this stream on our way up,
though we could not have told where, and one had descended into the
ravine for a drink. The cool air above and the continual bathing of
our bodies in mountain water, alternate foot, sitz, douche, and plunge
baths, made this walk exceedingly refreshing, and we had traveled only
a mile or two, after leaving the torrent, before every thread of our
clothes was as dry as usual, owing perhaps to a peculiar quality in
the atmosphere.

After leaving the torrent, being in doubt about our course, Tom threw
down his pack at the foot of the loftiest spruce tree at hand, and
shinned up the bare trunk some twenty feet, and then climbed through
the green tower, lost to our sight, until he held the topmost spray
in his hand.[5] McCauslin, in his younger days, had marched through
the wilderness with a body of troops, under General Somebody, and with
one other man did all the scouting and spying service. The General's
word was, "Throw down the top of that tree," and there was no tree in
the Maine woods so high that it did not lose its top in such a case. I
have heard a story of two men being lost once in these woods, nearer
to the settlements than this, who climbed the loftiest pine they could
find, some six feet in diameter at the ground, from whose top they
discovered a solitary clearing and its smoke. When at this height,
some two hundred feet from the ground, one of them became dizzy, and
fainted in his companion's arms, and the latter had to accomplish the
descent with him, alternately fainting and reviving, as best he could.
To Tom we cried, "Where away does the summit bear? where the burnt
lands?" The last he could only conjecture; he descried, however, a
little meadow and pond, lying probably in our course, which we
concluded to steer for. On reaching this secluded meadow, we found
fresh tracks of moose on the shore of the pond, and the water was
still unsettled as if they had fled before us. A little farther, in a
dense thicket, we seemed to be still on their trail. It was a small
meadow, of a few acres, on the mountain-side, concealed by the forest,
and perhaps never seen by a white man before, where one would think
that the moose might browse and bathe, and rest in peace. Pursuing
this course, we soon reached the open land, which went sloping down
some miles toward the Penobscot.

Perhaps I most fully realized that this was primeval, untamed, and
forever untamable _Nature_, or whatever else men call it, while coming
down this part of the mountain. We were passing over "Burnt Lands,"
burnt by lightning, perchance, though they showed no recent marks of
fire, hardly so much as a charred stump, but looked rather like a
natural pasture for the moose and deer, exceedingly wild and desolate,
with occasional strips of timber crossing them, and low poplars
springing up, and patches of blueberries here and there. I found
myself traversing them familiarly, like some pasture run to waste, or
partially reclaimed by man; but when I reflected what man, what
brother or sister or kinsman of our race made it and claimed it, I
expected the proprietor to rise up and dispute my passage. It is
difficult to conceive of a region uninhabited by man. We habitually
presume his presence and influence everywhere. And yet we have not
seen pure Nature, unless we have seen her thus vast and drear and
inhuman, though in the midst of cities. Nature was here something
savage and awful, though beautiful. I looked with awe at the ground I
trod on, to see what the Powers had made there, the form and fashion
and material of their work. This was that Earth of which we have
heard, made out of Chaos and Old Night. Here was no man's garden, but
the unhandseled globe. It was not lawn, nor pasture, nor mead, nor
woodland, nor lea, nor arable, nor waste land. It was the fresh and
natural surface of the planet Earth, as it was made forever and
ever,--to be the dwelling of man, we say,--so Nature made it, and man
may use it if he can. Man was not to be associated with it. It was
Matter, vast, terrific,--not his Mother Earth that we have heard of,
not for him to tread on, or be buried in,--no, it were being too
familiar even to let his bones lie there,--the home, this, of
Necessity and Fate. There was clearly felt the presence of a force not
bound to be kind to man. It was a place for heathenism and
superstitious rites,--to be inhabited by men nearer of kin to the
rocks and to wild animals than we. We walked over it with a certain
awe, stopping, from time to time, to pick the blueberries which grew
there, and had a smart and spicy taste. Perchance where _our_ wild
pines stand, and leaves lie on their forest floor, in Concord, there
were once reapers, and husbandmen planted grain; but here not even the
surface had been scarred by man, but it was a specimen of what God saw
fit to make this world. What is it to be admitted to a museum, to see
a myriad of particular things, compared with being shown some star's
surface, some hard matter in its home! I stand in awe of my body, this
matter to which I am bound has become so strange to me. I fear not
spirits, ghosts, of which I am one,--_that_ my body might,--but I
fear bodies, I tremble to meet them. What is this Titan that has
possession of me? Talk of mysteries! Think of our life in
nature,--daily to be shown matter, to come in contact with it,--rocks,
trees, wind on our cheeks! the _solid_ earth! the _actual_ world! the
_common sense!_ _Contact!_ _Contact!_ _Who_ are we? _where_ are we?

Erelong we recognized some rocks and other features in the landscape
which we had purposely impressed on our memories, and, quickening our
pace, by two o'clock we reached the batteau.[6] Here we had expected
to dine on trout, but in this glaring sunlight they were slow to take
the bait, so we were compelled to make the most of the crumbs of our
hard-bread and our pork, which were both nearly exhausted. Meanwhile
we deliberated whether we should go up the river a mile farther, to
Gibson's clearing, on the Sowadnehunk, where there was a deserted log
hut, in order to get a half-inch auger, to mend one of our spike-poles
with. There were young spruce trees enough around us, and we had a
spare spike, but nothing to make a hole with. But as it was uncertain
whether we should find any tools left there, we patched up the broken
pole, as well as we could, for the downward voyage, in which there
would be but little use for it. Moreover, we were unwilling to lose
any time in this expedition, lest the wind should rise before we
reached the larger lakes, and detain us; for a moderate wind produces
quite a sea on these waters, in which a batteau will not live for a
moment; and on one occasion McCauslin had been delayed a week at the
head of the North Twin, which is only four miles across. We were
nearly out of provisions, and ill prepared in this respect for what
might possibly prove a week's journey round by the shore, fording
innumerable streams, and threading a trackless forest, should any
accident happen to our boat.

It was with regret that we turned our backs on Chesuncook, which
McCauslin had formerly logged on, and the Allegash lakes. There were
still longer rapids and portages above; among the last the Ripogenus
Portage, which he described as the most difficult on the river, and
three miles long. The whole length of the Penobscot is two hundred and
seventy-five miles, and we are still nearly one hundred miles from its
source. Hodge, the Assistant State Geologist, passed up this river in
1837, and by a portage of only one mile and three quarters crossed
over into the Allegash, and so went down that into the St. John, and
up the Madawaska to the Grand Portage across to the St. Lawrence. His
is the only account that I know of an expedition through to Canada in
this direction. He thus describes his first sight of the latter river,
which, to compare small things with great, is like Balboa's first
sight of the Pacific from the mountains of the Isthmus of Darien.
"When we first came in sight of the St. Lawrence," he says, "from the
top of a high hill, the view was most striking, and much more
interesting to me from having been shut up in the woods for the two
previous months. Directly before us lay the broad river, extending
across nine or ten miles, its surface broken by a few islands and
reefs, and two ships riding at anchor near the shore. Beyond, extended
ranges of uncultivated hills, parallel with the river. The sun was
just going down behind them, and gilding the whole scene with its
parting rays."

About four o'clock, the same afternoon, we commenced our return
voyage, which would require but little if any poling. In shooting
rapids the boatmen use large and broad paddles, instead of poles, to
guide the boat with. Though we glided so swiftly, and often smoothly,
down, where it had cost us no slight effort to get up, our present
voyage was attended with far more danger; for if we once fairly struck
one of the thousand rocks by which we were surrounded, the boat would
be swamped in an instant. When a boat is swamped under these
circumstances, the boatmen commonly find no difficulty in keeping
afloat at first, for the current keeps both them and their cargo up
for a long way down the stream; and if they can swim, they have only
to work their way gradually to the shore. The greatest danger is of
being caught in an eddy behind some larger rock, where the water
rushes up stream faster than elsewhere it does down, and being carried
round and round under the surface till they are drowned. McCauslin
pointed out some rocks which had been the scene of a fatal accident of
this kind. Sometimes the body is not thrown out for several hours. He
himself had performed such a circuit once, only his legs being visible
to his companions; but he was fortunately thrown out in season to
recover his breath.[7] In shooting the rapids, the boatman has this
problem to solve: to choose a circuitous and safe course amid a
thousand sunken rocks, scattered over a quarter or half a mile, at the
same time that he is moving steadily on at the rate of fifteen miles
an hour. Stop he cannot; the only question is, where will he go? The
bowman chooses the course with all his eyes about him, striking broad
off with his paddle, and drawing the boat by main force into her
course. The sternman faithfully follows the bow.

We were soon at the Aboljacarmegus Falls. Anxious to avoid the delay,
as well as the labor, of the portage here, our boatmen went forward
first to reconnoitre, and concluded to let the batteau down the falls,
carrying the baggage only over the portage. Jumping from rock to rock
until nearly in the middle of the stream, we were ready to receive the
boat and let her down over the first fall, some six or seven feet
perpendicular. The boatmen stand upon the edge of a shelf of rock,
where the fall is perhaps nine or ten feet perpendicular, in from one
to two feet of rapid water, one on each side of the boat, and let it
slide gently over, till the bow is run out ten or twelve feet in the
air; then, letting it drop squarely, while one holds the painter, the
other leaps in, and his companion following, they are whirled down
the rapids to a new fall or to smooth water. In a very few minutes
they had accomplished a passage in safety, which would be as foolhardy
for the unskillful to attempt as the descent of Niagara itself. It
seemed as if it needed only a little familiarity, and a little more
skill, to navigate down such falls as Niagara itself with safety. At
any rate, I should not despair of such men in the rapids above Table
Rock, until I saw them actually go over the falls, so cool, so
collected, so fertile in resources are they. One might have thought
that these were falls, and that falls were not to be waded through
with impunity, like a mud-puddle. There was really danger of their
losing their sublimity in losing their power to harm us. Familiarity
breeds contempt. The boatman pauses, perchance, on some shelf beneath
a table-rock under the fall, standing in some cove of backwater two
feet deep, and you hear his rough voice come up through the spray,
coolly giving directions how to launch the boat this time.

Having carried round Pockwockomus Falls, our oars soon brought us to
the Katepskonegan, or Oak Hall carry, where we decided to camp
half-way over, leaving our batteau to be carried over in the morning
on fresh shoulders. One shoulder of each of the boatmen showed a red
spot as large as one's hand, worn by the batteau on this expedition;
and this shoulder, as it did all the work, was perceptibly lower than
its fellow, from long service. Such toil soon wears out the strongest
constitution. The drivers are accustomed to work in the cold water in
the spring, rarely ever dry; and if one falls in all over he rarely
changes his clothes till night, if then, even. One who takes this
precaution is called by a particular nickname, or is turned off. None
can lead this life who are not almost amphibious. McCauslin said
soberly, what is at any rate a good story to tell, that he had seen
where six men were wholly under water at once, at a jam, with their
shoulders to handspikes. If the log did not start, then they had to
put out their heads to breathe. The driver works as long as he can
see, from dark to dark, and at night has not time to eat his supper
and dry his clothes fairly, before he is asleep on his cedar bed. We
lay that night on the very bed made by such a party, stretching our
tent over the poles which were still standing, but re-shingling the
damp and faded bed with fresh leaves.

In the morning we carried our boat over and launched it, making haste
lest the wind should rise. The boatmen ran down Passamagamet, and soon
after Ambejijis Falls, while we walked round with the baggage. We made
a hasty breakfast at the head of Ambejijis Lake on the remainder of
our pork, and were soon rowing across its smooth surface again, under
a pleasant sky, the mountain being now clear of clouds in the
northeast. Taking turns at the oars, we shot rapidly across Deep Cove,
the foot of Pamadumcook, and the North Twin, at the rate of six miles
an hour, the wind not being high enough to disturb us, and reached the
Dam at noon. The boatmen went through one of the log sluices in the
batteau, where the fall was ten feet at the bottom, and took us in
below. Here was the longest rapid in our voyage, and perhaps the
running this was as dangerous and arduous a task as any. Shooting down
sometimes at the rate, as we judged, of fifteen miles an hour, if we
struck a rock we were split from end to end in an instant. Now like a
bait bobbing for some river monster, amid the eddies, now darting to
this side of the stream, now to that, gliding swift and smooth near to
our destruction, or striking broad off with the paddle and drawing the
boat to right or left with all our might, in order to avoid a rock. I
suppose that it was like running the rapids of the Sault Sainte Marie,
at the outlet of Lake Superior, and our boatmen probably displayed no
less dexterity than the Indians there do. We soon ran through this
mile, and floated in Quakish Lake.

After such a voyage, the troubled and angry waters, which once had
seemed terrible and not to be trifled with, appeared tamed and
subdued; they had been bearded and worried in their channels, pricked
and whipped into submission with the spike-pole and paddle, gone
through and through with impunity, and all their spirit and their
danger taken out of them, and the most swollen and impetuous rivers
seemed but playthings henceforth. I began, at length, to understand
the boatman's familiarity with, and contempt for, the rapids. "Those
Fowler boys," said Mrs. McCauslin, "are perfect ducks for the water."
They had run down to Lincoln, according to her, thirty or forty miles,
in a batteau, in the night, for a doctor, when it was so dark that
they could not see a rod before them, and the river was swollen so as
to be almost a continuous rapid, so that the doctor _cried_, when they
brought him up by daylight, "Why, Tom, how did you see to steer?" "We
didn't steer much,--only kept her straight." And yet they met with no
accident. It is true, the more difficult rapids are higher up than
this.

When we reached the Millinocket opposite to Tom's house, and were
waiting for his folks to set us over,--for we had left our batteau
above the Grand Falls,--we discovered two canoes, with two men in
each, turning up this stream from Shad Pond, one keeping the opposite
side of a small island before us, while the other approached the side
where we were standing, examining the banks carefully for muskrats as
they came along. The last proved to be Louis Neptune and his
companion, now, at last, on their way up to Chesuncook after moose,
but they were so disguised that we hardly knew them. At a little
distance they might have been taken for Quakers, with their
broad-brimmed hats and overcoats with broad capes, the spoils of
Bangor, seeking a settlement in this Sylvania,--or, nearer at hand,
for fashionable gentlemen the morning after a spree. Met face to face,
these Indians in their native woods looked like the sinister and
slouching fellows whom you meet picking up strings and paper in the
streets of a city. There is, in fact, a remarkable and unexpected
resemblance between the degraded savage and the lowest classes in a
great city. The one is no more a child of nature than the other. In
the progress of degradation the distinction of races is soon lost.
Neptune at first was only anxious to know what we "kill," seeing some
partridges in the hands of one of the party, but we had assumed too
much anger to permit of a reply. We thought Indians had some honor
before. But--"Me been sick. Oh, me unwell now. You make bargain, then
me go." They had in fact been delayed so long by a drunken frolic at
the Five Islands, and they had not yet recovered from its effects.
They had some young musquash in their canoes, which they dug out of
the banks with a hoe, for food, not for their skins, for musquash are
their principal food on these expeditions. So they went on up the
Millinocket, and we kept down the bank of the Penobscot, after
recruiting ourselves with a draught of Tom's beer, leaving Tom at his
home.

Thus a man shall lead his life away here on the edge of the
wilderness, on Indian Millinocket Stream, in a new world, far in the
dark of a continent, and have a flute to play at evening here, while
his strains echo to the stars, amid the howling of wolves; shall live,
as it were, in the primitive age of the world, a primitive man. Yet he
shall spend a sunny day, and in this century be my contemporary;
perchance shall read some scattered leaves of literature, and
sometimes talk with me. Why read history, then, if the ages and the
generations are now? He lives three thousand years deep into time, an
age not yet described by poets. Can you well go further back in
history than this? Ay! ay!--for there turns up but now into the mouth
of Millinocket Stream a still more ancient and primitive man, whose
history is not brought down even to the former. In a bark vessel sewn
with the roots of the spruce, with horn-beam paddles, he dips his way
along. He is but dim and misty to me, obscured by the æons that lie
between the bark canoe and the batteau. He builds no house of logs,
but a wigwam of skins. He eats no hot bread and sweet cake, but
musquash and moose meat and the fat of bears. He glides up the
Millinocket and is lost to my sight, as a more distant and misty cloud
is seen flitting by behind a nearer, and is lost in space. So he goes
about his destiny, the red face of man.

After having passed the night, and buttered our boots for the last
time, at Uncle George's, whose dogs almost devoured him for joy at his
return, we kept on down the river the next day, about eight miles on
foot, and then took a batteau, with a man to pole it, to Mattawamkeag,
ten more. At the middle of that very night, to make a swift conclusion
to a long story, we dropped our buggy over the half-finished bridge at
Oldtown, where we heard the confused din and clink of a hundred saws,
which never rest, and at six o'clock the next morning one of the party
was steaming his way to Massachusetts.

       *       *       *       *       *

  [Illustration: _Maine Wilderness_]

What is most striking in the Maine wilderness is the continuousness of
the forest, with fewer open intervals or glades than you had imagined.
Except the few burnt lands, the narrow intervals on the rivers, the
bare tops of the high mountains, and the lakes and streams, the forest
is uninterrupted. It is even more grim and wild than you had
anticipated, a damp and intricate wilderness, in the spring everywhere
wet and miry. The aspect of the country, indeed, is universally stern
and savage, excepting the distant views of the forest from hills, and
the lake prospects, which are mild and civilizing in a degree. The
lakes are something which you are unprepared for; they lie up so
high, exposed to the light, and the forest is diminished to a fine
fringe on their edges, with here and there a blue mountain, like
amethyst jewels set around some jewel of the first water,--so
anterior, so superior, to all the changes that are to take place on
their shores, even now civil and refined, and fair as they can ever
be. These are not the artificial forests of an English king,--a royal
preserve merely. Here prevail no forest laws but those of nature. The
aborigines have never been dispossessed, nor nature disforested.

It is a country full of evergreen trees, of mossy silver birches and
watery maples, the ground dotted with insipid small, red berries, and
strewn with damp and moss-grown rocks,--a country diversified with
innumerable lakes and rapid streams, peopled with trout and various
species of _leucisci_, with salmon, shad, and pickerel, and other
fishes; the forest resounding at rare intervals with the note of the
chickadee, the blue jay, and the woodpecker, the scream of the fish
hawk and the eagle, the laugh of the loon, and the whistle of ducks
along the solitary streams; at night, with the hooting of owls and
howling of wolves; in summer, swarming with myriads of black flies and
mosquitoes, more formidable than wolves to the white man. Such is the
home of the moose, the bear, the caribou, the wolf, the beaver, and
the Indian. Who shall describe the inexpressible tenderness and
immortal life of the grim forest, where Nature, though it be
midwinter, is ever in her spring, where the moss-grown and decaying
trees are not old, but seem to enjoy a perpetual youth; and blissful,
innocent Nature, like a serene infant, is too happy to make a noise,
except by a few tinkling, lisping birds and trickling rills?

What a place to live, what a place to die and be buried in! There
certainly men would live forever, and laugh at death and the grave.
There they could have no such thoughts as are associated with the
village graveyard,--that make a grave out of one of those moist
evergreen hummocks!

     Die and be buried who will,
       I mean to live here still;
     My nature grows ever more young
       The primitive pines among.

I am reminded by my journey how exceedingly new this country still is.
You have only to travel for a few days into the interior and back
parts even of many of the old States, to come to that very America
which the Northmen, and Cabot, and Gosnold, and Smith, and Raleigh
visited. If Columbus was the first to discover the islands, Americus
Vespucius and Cabot, and the Puritans, and we their descendants, have
discovered only the shores of America. While the Republic has already
acquired a history world-wide, America is still unsettled and
unexplored. Like the English in New Holland, we live only on the
shores of a continent even yet, and hardly know where the rivers come
from which float our navy. The very timber and boards and shingles of
which our houses are made grew but yesterday in a wilderness where the
Indian still hunts and the moose runs wild. New York has her
wilderness within her own borders; and though the sailors of Europe
are familiar with the soundings of her Hudson, and Fulton long since
invented the steamboat on its waters, an Indian is still necessary to
guide her scientific men to its headwaters in the Adirondack country.

Have we even so much as discovered and settled the shores? Let a man
travel on foot along the coast, from the Passamaquoddy to the Sabine,
or to the Rio Bravo, or to wherever the end is now, if he is swift
enough to overtake it, faithfully following the windings of every
inlet and of every cape, and stepping to the music of the surf,--with
a desolate fishing town once a week, and a city's port once a month to
cheer him, and putting up at the lighthouses, when there are any,--and
tell me if it looks like a discovered and settled country, and not
rather, for the most part, like a desolate island, and No-Man's Land.

We have advanced by leaps to the Pacific, and left many a lesser
Oregon and California unexplored behind us. Though the railroad and
the telegraph have been established on the shores of Maine, the Indian
still looks out from her interior mountains over all these to the sea.
There stands the city of Bangor, fifty miles up the Penobscot, at the
head of navigation for vessels of the largest class, the principal
lumber depot on this continent, with a population of twelve thousand,
like a star on the edge of night, still hewing at the forests of which
it is built, already overflowing with the luxuries and refinement of
Europe, and sending its vessels to Spain, to England, and to the West
Indies for its groceries,--and yet only a few axemen have gone "up
river," into the howling wilderness which feeds it. The bear and deer
are still found within its limits; and the moose, as he swims the
Penobscot, is entangled amid its shipping, and taken by foreign
sailors in its harbor. Twelve miles in the rear, twelve miles of
railroad, are Orono and the Indian Island, the home of the Penobscot
tribe, and then commence the batteau and the canoe, and the military
road; and sixty miles above, the country is virtually unmapped and
unexplored, and there still waves the virgin forest of the New World.


FOOTNOTES:

[1] Springer, in his _Forest Life_ (1851), says that they first remove
the leaves and turf from the spot where they intend to build a camp,
for fear of fire; also, that "the spruce-tree is generally selected
for camp-building, it being light, straight, and quite free from sap;"
that "the roof is finally covered with the boughs of the fir, spruce,
and hemlock, so that when the snow falls upon the whole, the warmth of
the camp is preserved in the coldest weather;" and that they make the
log seat before the fire, called the "Deacon's Seat," of a spruce or
fir split in halves, with three or four stout limbs left on one side
for legs, which are not likely to get loose.

[2] The Canadians call it _picquer de fond_.

[3] Even the Jesuit missionaries, accustomed to the St. Lawrence and
other rivers of Canada, in their first expeditions to the
Abenaquinois, speak of rivers _ferrées de rochers_, shod with rocks.
See also No. 10 _Relations_, for 1647, p. 185.

[4] "A steady current or pitch of water is preferable to one either
rising or diminishing; as, when rising rapidly, the water at the
middle of the river is considerably higher than at the shores,--so
much so as to be distinctly perceived by the eye of a spectator on the
banks, presenting an appearance like a turnpike road. The lumber,
therefore, is always sure to incline from the centre of the channel
toward either shore."--Springer.

[5] "The spruce tree," says Springer in '51, "is generally selected,
principally for the superior facilities which its numerous limbs
afford the climber. To gain the first limbs of this tree, which are
from twenty to forty feet from the ground, a smaller tree is undercut
and lodged against it, clambering up which the top of the spruce is
reached. In some cases, when a very elevated position is desired, the
spruce tree is lodged against the trunk of some lofty pine, up which
we ascend to a height twice that of the surrounding forest."

To indicate the direction of pines, one throws down a branch, and a
man on the ground takes the bearing.

[6] The bears had not touched things on our possessions. They
sometimes tear a batteau to pieces for the sake of the tar with which
it is besmeared.

[7] I cut this from a newspaper: "On the 11th (instant?) [May, '49],
on Rappogenes Falls, Mr. John Delantee, of Orono, Me., was drowned
while running logs. He was a citizen of Orono, and was twenty-six
years of age. His companions found his body, enclosed it in bark, and
buried it in the solemn woods."




CHESUNCOOK


At five P. M., September 13, 1853, I left Boston, in the steamer, for
Bangor, by the outside course. It was a warm and still night,--warmer,
probably, on the water than on the land,--and the sea was as smooth as
a small lake in summer, merely rippled. The passengers went singing on
the deck, as in a parlor, till ten o'clock. We passed a vessel on her
beam-ends on a rock just outside the islands, and some of us thought
that she was the "rapt ship" which ran

                    "on her side so low
     That she drank water, and her keel ploughed air,"

not considering that there was no wind, and that she was under bare
poles. Now we have left the islands behind and are off Nahant. We
behold those features which the discoverers saw, apparently unchanged.
Now we see the Cape Ann lights, and now pass near a small village-like
fleet of mackerel fishers at anchor, probably off Gloucester. They
salute us with a shout from their low decks; but I understand their
"Good-evening" to mean, "Don't run against me, sir." From the wonders
of the deep we go below to yet deeper sleep. And then the absurdity of
being waked up in the night by a man who wants the job of blacking
your boots! It is more inevitable than seasickness, and may have
something to do with it. It is like the ducking you get on crossing
the line the first time. I trusted that these old customs were
abolished. They might with the same propriety insist on blacking your
face. I heard of one man who complained that somebody had stolen his
boots in the night; and when he found them, he wanted to know what
they had done to them,--they had spoiled them,--he never put that
stuff on them; and the bootblack narrowly escaped paying damages.

Anxious to get out of the whale's belly, I rose early, and joined some
old salts, who were smoking by a dim light on a sheltered part of the
deck. We were just getting into the river. They knew all about it, of
course. I was proud to find that I had stood the voyage so well, and
was not in the least digested. We brushed up and watched the first
signs of dawn through an open port; but the day seemed to hang fire.
We inquired the time; none of my companions had a chronometer. At
length an African prince rushed by, observing, "Twelve o'clock,
gentlemen!" and blew out the light. It was moonrise. So I slunk down
into the monster's bowels again.

The first land we make is Monhegan Island, before dawn, and next St.
George's Islands, seeing two or three lights. Whitehead, with its bare
rocks and funereal bell, is interesting. Next I remember that the
Camden Hills attracted my eyes, and afterward the hills about
Frankfort. We reached Bangor about noon.

When I arrived, my companion that was to be had gone up river, and
engaged an Indian, Joe Aitteon, a son of the Governor, to go with us
to Chesuncook Lake. Joe had conducted two white men a-moose-hunting in
the same direction the year before. He arrived by cars at Bangor that
evening, with his canoe and a companion, Sabattis Solomon, who was
going to leave Bangor the following Monday with Joe's father, by way
of the Penobscot, and join Joe in moose-hunting at Chesuncook when we
had done with him. They took supper at my friend's house and lodged in
his barn, saying that they should fare worse than that in the woods.
They only made Watch bark a little, when they came to the door in the
night for water, for he does not like Indians.

The next morning Joe and his canoe were put on board the stage for
Moosehead Lake, sixty and odd miles distant, an hour before we started
in an open wagon. We carried hard-bread, pork, smoked beef, tea,
sugar, etc., seemingly enough for a regiment; the sight of which
brought together reminded me by what ignoble means we had maintained
our ground hitherto. We went by the Avenue Road, which is quite
straight and very good, northwestward toward Moosehead Lake, through
more than a dozen flourishing towns, with almost every one its
academy,--not one of which, however, is on my General Atlas,
published, alas! in 1824; so much are they before the age, or I behind
it! The earth must have been considerably lighter to the shoulders of
General Atlas then.

It rained all this day and till the middle of the next forenoon,
concealing the landscape almost entirely; but we had hardly got out of
the streets of Bangor before I began to be exhilarated by the sight of
the wild fir and spruce tops, and those of other primitive evergreens,
peering through the mist in the horizon. It was like the sight and
odor of cake to a schoolboy. He who rides and keeps the beaten track
studies the fences chiefly. Near Bangor, the fence-posts, on account
of the frost's heaving them in the clayey soil, were not planted in
the ground, but were mortised into a transverse horizontal beam lying
on the surface. Afterwards, the prevailing fences were log ones, with
sometimes a Virginia fence, or else rails slanted over crossed stakes;
and these zigzagged or played leap-frog all the way to the lake,
keeping just ahead of us. After getting out of the Penobscot valley,
the country was unexpectedly level, or consisted of very even and
equal swells, for twenty or thirty miles, never rising above the
general level, but affording, it is said, a very good prospect in
clear weather, with frequent views of Ktaadn,--straight roads and long
hills. The houses were far apart, commonly small and of one story, but
framed. There was very little land under cultivation, yet the forest
did not often border the road. The stumps were frequently as high as
one's head, showing the depth of the snows. The white hay-caps, drawn
over small stacks of beans or corn in the fields on account of the
rain, were a novel sight to me. We saw large flocks of pigeons, and
several times came within a rod or two of partridges in the road. My
companion said that in one journey out of Bangor he and his son had
shot sixty partridges from his buggy. The mountain-ash was now very
handsome, as also the wayfarer's-tree or hobble-bush, with its ripe
purple berries mixed with red. The Canada thistle, an introduced
plant, was the prevailing weed all the way to the lake, the roadside
in many places, and fields not long cleared, being densely filled with
it as with a crop, to the exclusion of everything else. There were
also whole fields full of ferns, now rusty and withering, which in
older countries are commonly confined to wet ground. There were very
few flowers, even allowing for the lateness of the season. It chanced
that I saw no asters in bloom along the road for fifty miles, though
they were so abundant then in Massachusetts,--except in one place one
or two of the _Aster acuminatus_,--and no golden-rods till within
twenty miles of Monson, where I saw a three-ribbed one. There were
many late buttercups, however, and the two fire-weeds, erechthites and
epilobium, commonly where there had been a burning, and at last the
pearly everlasting. I noticed occasionally very long troughs which
supplied the road with water, and my companion said that three dollars
annually were granted by the State to one man in each school-district,
who provided and maintained a suitable water-trough by the roadside,
for the use of travelers,--a piece of intelligence as refreshing to me
as the water itself. That legislature did not sit in vain. It was an
Oriental act, which made me wish that I was still farther down
East,--another Maine law, which I hope we may get in Massachusetts.
That State is banishing bar-rooms from its highways, and conducting
the mountain springs thither.

The country was first decidedly mountainous in Garland, Sangerville,
and onwards, twenty-five or thirty miles from Bangor. At Sangerville,
where we stopped at mid-afternoon to warm and dry ourselves, the
landlord told us that he had found a wilderness where we found him. At
a fork in the road between Abbot and Monson, about twenty miles from
Moosehead Lake, I saw a guide-post surmounted by a pair of moose
horns, spreading four or five feet, with the word "Monson" painted on
one blade, and the name of some other town on the other. They are
sometimes used for ornamental hat-trees, together with deer's horns,
in front entries; but, after the experience which I shall relate, I
trust that I shall have a better excuse for killing a moose than that
I may hang my hat on his horns. We reached Monson, fifty miles from
Bangor, and thirteen from the lake, after dark.

At four o'clock the next morning, in the dark, and still in the rain,
we pursued our journey. Close to the academy in this town they have
erected a sort of gallows for the pupils to practice on. I thought
that they might as well hang at once all who need to go through such
exercises in so new a country, where there is nothing to hinder their
living an outdoor life. Better omit Blair, and take the air. The
country about the south end of the lake is quite mountainous, and the
road began to feel the effects of it. There is one hill which, it is
calculated, it takes twenty-five minutes to ascend. In many places the
road was in that condition called _repaired_, having just been
whittled into the required semicylindrical form with the shovel and
scraper, with all the softest inequalities in the middle, like a hog's
back with the bristles up, and Jehu was expected to keep astride of
the spine. As you looked off each side of the bare sphere into the
horizon, the ditches were awful to behold,--a vast hollowness, like
that between Saturn and his ring. At a tavern hereabouts the hostler
greeted our horse as an old acquaintance, though he did not remember
the driver. He said that he had taken care of that little mare for a
short time, a year or two before, at the Mount Kineo House, and
thought she was not in as good condition as then. Every man to his
trade. I am not acquainted with a single horse in the world, not even
the one that kicked me.

Already we had thought that we saw Moosehead Lake from a hilltop,
where an extensive fog filled the distant lowlands, but we were
mistaken. It was not till we were within a mile or two of its south
end that we got our first view of it,--a suitably wild-looking sheet
of water, sprinkled with small, low islands, which were covered with
shaggy spruce and other wild wood,--seen over the infant port of
Greenville with mountains on each side and far in the north, and a
steamer's smoke-pipe rising above a roof. A pair of moose-horns
ornamented a corner of the public house where we left our horse, and a
few rods distant lay the small steamer Moosehead, Captain King. There
was no village, and no summer road any farther in this direction, but
a winter road, that is, one passable only when deep snow covers its
inequalities, from Greenville up the east side of the lake to Lily
Bay, about twelve miles.

I was here first introduced to Joe. He had ridden all the way on the
outside of the stage, the day before, in the rain, giving way to
ladies, and was well wetted. As it still rained, he asked if we were
going to "put it through." He was a good-looking Indian, twenty-four
years old, apparently of unmixed blood, short and stout, with a broad
face and reddish complexion, and eyes, methinks, narrower and more
turned up at the outer corners than ours, answering to the description
of his race. Besides his underclothing, he wore a red flannel shirt,
woolen pants, and a black Kossuth hat, the ordinary dress of the
lumberman, and, to a considerable extent, of the Penobscot Indian.
When, afterward, he had occasion to take off his shoes and stockings,
I was struck with the smallness of his feet. He had worked a good deal
as a lumberman, and appeared to identify himself with that class. He
was the only one of the party who possessed an india-rubber jacket.
The top strip or edge of his canoe was worn nearly through by friction
on the stage.

At eight o'clock the steamer, with her bell and whistle, scaring the
moose, summoned us on board. She was a well-appointed little boat,
commanded by a gentlemanly captain, with patent life-seats and
metallic life-boat, and dinner on board, if you wish. She is chiefly
used by lumberers for the transportation of themselves, their boats,
and supplies, but also by hunters and tourists. There was another
steamer, named Amphitrite, laid up close by; but, apparently, her name
was not more trite than her hull. There were also two or three large
sailboats in port. These beginnings of commerce on a lake in the
wilderness are very interesting,--these larger white birds that come
to keep company with the gulls. There were but few passengers, and not
one female among them: a St. Francis Indian, with his canoe and
moose-hides; two explorers for lumber; three men who landed at Sandbar
Island, and a gentleman who lives on Deer Island, eleven miles up the
lake, and owns also Sugar Island, between which and the former the
steamer runs; these, I think, were all beside ourselves. In the saloon
was some kind of musical instrument--cherubim or seraphim--to soothe
the angry waves; and there, very properly, was tacked up the map of
the public lands of Maine and Massachusetts, a copy of which I had in
my pocket.

The heavy rain confining us to the saloon awhile, I discoursed with
the proprietor of Sugar Island on the condition of the world in Old
Testament times. But at length, leaving this subject as fresh as we
found it, he told me that he had lived about this lake twenty or
thirty years, and yet had not been to the head of it for twenty-one
years. He faces the other way. The explorers had a fine new birch on
board, larger than ours, in which they had come up the Piscataquis
from Howland, and they had had several messes of trout already. They
were going to the neighborhood of Eagle and Chamberlain lakes, or the
head-waters of the St. John, and offered to keep us company as far as
we went. The lake to-day was rougher than I found the ocean, either
going or returning, and Joe remarked that it would swamp his birch.
Off Lily Bay it is a dozen miles wide, but it is much broken by
islands. The scenery is not merely wild, but varied and interesting;
mountains were seen, farther or nearer, on all sides but the
northwest, their summits now lost in the clouds; but Mount Kineo is
the principal feature of the lake, and more exclusively belongs to it.
After leaving Greenville, at the foot, which is the nucleus of a town
some eight or ten years old, you see but three or four houses for the
whole length of the lake, or about forty miles, three of them the
public houses at which the steamer is advertised to stop, and the
shore is an unbroken wilderness. The prevailing wood seemed to be
spruce, fir, birch, and rock maple. You could easily distinguish the
hard wood from the soft, or "black growth," as it is called, at a
great distance, the former being smooth, round-topped, and light
green, with a bowery and cultivated look.

Mount Kineo, at which the boat touched, is a peninsula with a narrow
neck, about midway the lake on the east side. The celebrated precipice
is on the east or land side of this, and is so high and perpendicular
that you can jump from the top, many hundred feet, into the water,
which makes up behind the point. A man on board told us that an anchor
had been sunk ninety fathoms at its base before reaching bottom!
Probably it will be discovered ere long that some Indian maiden jumped
off it for love once, for true love never could have found a path more
to its mind. We passed quite close to the rock here, since it is a
very bold shore, and I observed marks of a rise of four or five feet
on it. The St. Francis Indian expected to take in his boy here, but he
was not at the landing. The father's sharp eyes, however, detected a
canoe with his boy in it far away under the mountain, though no one
else could see it. "Where is the canoe?" asked the captain, "I don't
see it;" but he held on, nevertheless, and by and by it hove in sight.

We reached the head of the lake about noon. The weather had, in the
meanwhile, cleared up, though the mountains were still capped with
clouds. Seen from this point, Mount Kineo, and two other allied
mountains ranging with it northeasterly, presented a very strong
family likeness, as if all cast in one mould. The steamer here
approached a long pier projecting from the northern wilderness, and
built of some of its logs, and whistled, where not a cabin nor a
mortal was to be seen. The shore was quite low, with flat rocks on it,
overhung with black ash, arbor-vitæ, etc., which at first looked as if
they did not care a whistle for us. There was not a single cabman to
cry "Coach!" or inveigle us to the United States Hotel. At length a
Mr. Hinckley, who has a camp at the other end of the "carry," appeared
with a truck drawn by an ox and a horse over a rude log-railway
through the woods. The next thing was to get our canoe and effects
over the carry from this lake, one of the heads of the Kennebec, into
the Penobscot River. This railway from the lake to the river occupied
the middle of a clearing two or three rods wide and perfectly straight
through the forest. We walked across while our baggage was drawn
behind. My companion went ahead to be ready for partridges, while I
followed, looking at the plants.

This was an interesting botanical locality for one coming from the
south to commence with; for many plants which are rather rare, and one
or two which are not found at all, in the eastern part of
Massachusetts, grew abundantly between the rails,--as Labrador-tea,
_Kalmia glauca_, Canada blueberry (which was still in fruit, and a
second time in bloom), _Clintonia_ and _Linnæa borealis_, which last a
lumberer called _moxon_, creeping snowberry, painted trillium,
large-flowered bellwort, etc. I fancied that the _Aster Radula_,
_Diplopappus umbellatus_, _Solidago lanceolata_, red trumpet-weed, and
many others which were conspicuously in bloom on the shore of the lake
and on the carry, had a peculiarly wild and primitive look there. The
spruce and fir trees crowded to the track on each side to welcome us,
the arbor-vitæ, with its changing leaves, prompted us to make haste,
and the sight of the canoe birch gave us spirits to do so. Sometimes
an evergreen just fallen lay across the track with its rich burden of
cones, looking, still, fuller of life than our trees in the most
favorable positions. You did not expect to find such _spruce_ trees in
the wild woods, but they evidently attend to their toilets each
morning even there. Through such a front yard did we enter that
wilderness.

There was a very slight rise above the lake,--the country appearing
like, and perhaps being partly a swamp,--and at length a gradual
descent to the Penobscot, which I was surprised to find here a large
stream, from twelve to fifteen rods wide, flowing from west to east,
or at right angles with the lake, and not more than two and a half
miles from it. The distance is nearly twice too great on the Map of
the Public Lands, and on Colton's Map of Maine, and Russell Stream is
placed too far down. Jackson makes Moosehead Lake to be nine hundred
and sixty feet above high water in Portland harbor. It is higher than
Chesuncook, for the lumberers consider the Penobscot, where we struck
it, twenty-five feet lower than Moosehead, though eight miles above it
is said to be the highest, so that the water can be made to flow
either way, and the river falls a good deal between here and
Chesuncook. The carry-man called this about one hundred and forty
miles above Bangor by the river, or two hundred from the ocean, and
fifty-five miles below Hilton's, on the Canada road, the first
clearing above, which is four and a half miles from the source of the
Penobscot.

At the north end of the carry, in the midst of a clearing of sixty
acres or more, there was a log camp of the usual construction, with
something more like a house adjoining, for the accommodation of the
carry-man's family and passing lumberers. The bed of withered fir
twigs smelled very sweet, though really very dirty. There was also a
store-house on the bank of the river, containing pork, flour, iron,
batteaux, and birches, locked up.

We now proceeded to get our dinner, which always turned out to be tea,
and to pitch canoes, for which purpose a large iron pot lay
permanently on the bank. This we did in company with the explorers.
Both Indians and whites use a mixture of rosin and grease for this
purpose, that is, for the pitching, not the dinner. Joe took a small
brand from the fire and blew the heat and flame against the pitch on
his birch, and so melted and spread it. Sometimes he put his mouth
over the suspected spot and sucked, to see if it admitted air; and at
one place, where we stopped, he set his canoe high on crossed stakes,
and poured water into it. I narrowly watched his motions, and listened
attentively to his observations, for we had employed an Indian mainly
that I might have an opportunity to study his ways. I heard him swear
once, mildly, during this operation, about his knife being as dull as
a hoe,--an accomplishment which he owed to his intercourse with the
whites; and he remarked, "We ought to have some tea before we start;
we shall be hungry before we kill that moose."

At mid-afternoon we embarked on the Penobscot. Our birch was nineteen
and a half feet long by two and a half at the widest part, and
fourteen inches deep within, both ends alike, and painted green, which
Joe thought affected the pitch and made it leak. This, I think, was a
middling-sized one. That of the explorers was much larger, though
probably not much longer. This carried us three with our baggage,
weighing in all between five hundred and fifty and six hundred pounds.
We had two heavy, though slender, rock-maple paddles, one of them of
bird's-eye maple. Joe placed birch-bark on the bottom for us to sit
on, and slanted cedar splints against the cross-bars to protect our
backs, while he himself sat upon a cross-bar in the stern. The baggage
occupied the middle or widest part of the canoe. We also paddled by
turns in the bows, now sitting with our legs extended, now sitting
upon our legs, and now rising upon our knees; but I found none of
these positions endurable, and was reminded of the complaints of the
old Jesuit missionaries of the torture they endured from long
confinement in constrained positions in canoes, in their long voyages
from Quebec to the Huron country; but afterwards I sat on the
cross-bars, or stood up, and experienced no inconvenience.

It was deadwater for a couple of miles. The river had been raised
about two feet by the rain, and lumberers were hoping for a flood
sufficient to bring down the logs that were left in the spring. Its
banks were seven or eight feet high, and densely covered with white
and black spruce,--which, I think, must be the commonest trees
thereabouts,--fir, arbor-vitæ, canoe, yellow and black birch, rock,
mountain, and a few red maples, beech, black and mountain ash, the
large-toothed aspen, many civil-looking elms, now imbrowned, along the
stream, and at first a few hemlocks also. We had not gone far before I
was startled by seeing what I thought was an Indian encampment,
covered with a red flag, on the bank, and exclaimed, "Camp!" to my
comrades. I was slow to discover that it was a red maple changed by
the frost. The immediate shores were also densely covered with the
speckled alder, red osier, shrubby willows or sallows, and the like.
There were a few yellow lily pads still left, half-drowned, along the
sides, and sometimes a white one. Many fresh tracks of moose were
visible where the water was shallow, and on the shore, the lily stems
were freshly bitten off by them.

After paddling about two miles, we parted company with the explorers,
and turned up Lobster Stream, which comes in on the right, from the
southeast. This was six or eight rods wide, and appeared to run nearly
parallel with the Penobscot. Joe said that it was so called from small
fresh-water lobsters found in it. It is the Matahumkeag of the maps.
My companion wished to look for moose signs, and intended, if it
proved worth the while, to camp up that way, since the Indian advised
it. On account of the rise of the Penobscot, the water ran up this
stream to the pond of the same name, one or two miles. The Spencer
Mountains, east of the north end of Moosehead Lake, were now in plain
sight in front of us. The kingfisher flew before us, the pigeon
woodpecker was seen and heard, and nuthatches and chickadees close at
hand. Joe said that they called the chickadee _kecunnilessu_ in his
language. I will not vouch for the spelling of what possibly was never
spelt before, but I pronounced after him till he said it would do. We
passed close to a woodcock, which stood perfectly still on the shore,
with feathers puffed up, as if sick. This Joe said they called
_nipsquecohossus_. The kingfisher was _skuscumonsuck_; bear was
_wassus_; Indian devil, _lunxus_; the mountain-ash, _upahsis_. This
was very abundant and beautiful. Moose tracks were not so fresh along
this stream, except in a small creek about a mile up it, where a large
log had lodged in the spring, marked "W-cross-girdle-crow-foot." We
saw a pair of moose-horns on the shore, and I asked Joe if a moose had
shed them; but he said there was a head attached to them, and I knew
that they did not shed their heads more than once in their lives.

After ascending about a mile and a half, to within a short distance of
Lobster Lake, we returned to the Penobscot. Just below the mouth of
the Lobster we found quick water, and the river expanded to twenty or
thirty rods in width. The moose-tracks were quite numerous and fresh
here. We noticed in a great many places narrow and well-trodden paths
by which they had come down to the river, and where they had slid on
the steep and clayey bank. Their tracks were either close to the edge
of the stream, those of the calves distinguishable from the others, or
in shallow water; the holes made by their feet in the soft bottom
being visible for a long time. They were particularly numerous where
there was a small bay, or pokelogan, as it is called, bordered by a
strip of meadow, or separated from the river by a low peninsula
covered with coarse grass, wool-grass, etc., wherein they had waded
back and forth and eaten the pads. We detected the remains of one in
such a spot. At one place, where we landed to pick up a summer duck,
which my companion had shot, Joe peeled a canoe birch for bark for his
hunting-horn. He then asked if we were not going to get the other
duck, for his sharp eyes had seen another fall in the bushes a little
farther along, and my companion obtained it. I now began to notice the
bright red berries of the tree-cranberry, which grows eight or ten
feet high, mingled with the alders and cornel along the shore. There
was less hard wood than at first.

After proceeding a mile and three quarters below the mouth of the
Lobster, we reached, about sundown, a small island at the head of what
Joe called the Moosehorn Deadwater (the Moosehorn, in which he was
going to hunt that night, coming in about three miles below), and on
the upper end of this we decided to camp. On a point at the lower end
lay the carcass of a moose killed a month or more before. We concluded
merely to prepare our camp, and leave our baggage here, that all might
be ready when we returned from moose-hunting. Though I had not come
a-hunting, and felt some compunctions about accompanying the hunters,
I wished to see a moose near at hand, and was not sorry to learn how
the Indian managed to kill one. I went as reporter or chaplain to the
hunters,--and the chaplain has been known to carry a gun himself.
After clearing a small space amid the dense spruce and fir trees, we
covered the damp ground with a shingling of fir twigs, and, while Joe
was preparing his birch horn and pitching his canoe,--for this had to
be done whenever we stopped long enough to build a fire, and was the
principal labor which he took upon himself at such times,--we
collected fuel for the night, large, wet, and rotting logs, which had
lodged at the head of the island, for our hatchet was too small for
effective chopping; but we did not kindle a fire, lest the moose
should smell it. Joe set up a couple of forked stakes, and prepared
half a dozen poles, ready to cast one of our blankets over in case it
rained in the night, which precaution, however, was omitted the next
night. We also plucked the ducks which had been killed for breakfast.

While we were thus engaged in the twilight, we heard faintly, from far
down the stream, what sounded like two strokes of a woodchopper's axe,
echoing dully through the grim solitude. We are wont to liken many
sounds, heard at a distance in the forest, to the stroke of an axe,
because they resemble each other under those circumstances, and that
is the one we commonly hear there. When we told Joe of this, he
exclaimed, "By George, I'll bet that was a moose! They make a noise
like that." These sounds affected us strangely, and by their very
resemblance to a familiar one, where they probably had so different
an origin, enhanced the impression of solitude and wildness.

At starlight we dropped down the stream, which was a deadwater for
three miles, or as far as the Moosehorn; Joe telling us that we must
be very silent, and he himself making no noise with his paddle, while
he urged the canoe along with effective impulses. It was a still
night, and suitable for this purpose,--for if there is wind, the moose
will smell you,--and Joe was very confident that he should get some.
The Harvest Moon had just risen, and its level rays began to light up
the forest on our right, while we glided downward in the shade on the
same side, against the little breeze that was stirring. The lofty,
spiring tops of the spruce and fir were very black against the sky,
and more distinct than by day, close bordering this broad avenue on
each side; and the beauty of the scene, as the moon rose above the
forest, it would not be easy to describe. A bat flew over our heads,
and we heard a few faint notes of birds from time to time, perhaps the
myrtle-bird for one, or the sudden plunge of a musquash, or saw one
crossing the stream before us, or heard the sound of a rill emptying
in, swollen by the recent rain. About a mile below the island, when
the solitude seemed to be growing more complete every moment, we
suddenly saw the light and heard the crackling of a fire on the bank,
and discovered the camp of the two explorers; they standing before it
in their red shirts, and talking aloud of the adventures and profits
of the day. They were just then speaking of a bargain, in which, as I
understood, somebody had cleared twenty-five dollars. We glided by
without speaking, close under the bank, within a couple of rods of
them; and Joe, taking his horn, imitated the call of the moose, till
we suggested that they might fire on us. This was the last we saw of
them, and we never knew whether they detected or suspected us.

I have often wished since that I was with them. They search for timber
over a given section, climbing hills and often high trees to look off;
explore the streams by which it is to be driven, and the like; spend
five or six weeks in the woods, they two alone, a hundred miles or
more from any town, roaming about, and sleeping on the ground where
night overtakes them, depending chiefly on the provisions they carry
with them, though they do not decline what game they come across; and
then in the fall they return and make report to their employers,
determining the number of teams that will be required the following
winter. Experienced men get three or four dollars a day for this work.
It is a solitary and adventurous life, and comes nearest to that of
the trapper of the West, perhaps. They work ever with a gun as well as
an axe, let their beards grow, and live without neighbors, not on an
open plain, but far within a wilderness.

This discovery accounted for the sounds which we had heard, and destroyed
the prospect of seeing moose yet awhile. At length, when we had left
the explorers far behind, Joe laid down his paddle, drew forth his
birch horn,--a straight one, about fifteen inches long and three or
four wide at the mouth, tied round with strips of the same bark,--and,
standing up, imitated the call of the moose,--_ugh-ugh-ugh_, or
_oo-oo-oo-oo_, and then a prolonged _oo-o-o-o-o-o-o-o_, and listened
attentively for several minutes. We asked him what kind of noise he
expected to hear. He said that if a moose heard it, he guessed we
should find out; we should hear him coming half a mile off; he would
come close to, perhaps into, the water, and my companion must wait
till he got fair sight, and then aim just behind the shoulder.

The moose venture out to the riverside to feed and drink at night.
Earlier in the season the hunters do not use a horn to call them out,
but steal upon them as they are feeding along the sides of the stream,
and often the first notice they have of one is the sound of the water
dropping from its muzzle. An Indian whom I heard imitate the voice of
the moose, and also that of the caribou and the deer, using a much
longer horn than Joe's, told me that the first could be heard eight or
ten miles, sometimes; it was a loud sort of bellowing sound, clearer
and more sonorous than the lowing of cattle, the caribou's a sort of
snort, and the small deer's like that of a lamb.

At length we turned up the Moosehorn, where the Indians at the carry
had told us that they killed a moose the night before. This is a very
meandering stream, only a rod or two in width, but comparatively deep,
coming in on the right, fitly enough named Moosehorn, whether from its
windings or its inhabitants. It was bordered here and there by narrow
meadows between the stream and the endless forest, affording favorable
places for the moose to feed, and to call them out on. We proceeded
half a mile up this as through a narrow, winding canal, where the
tall, dark spruce and firs and arbor-vitæ towered on both sides in the
moonlight, forming a perpendicular forest-edge of great height, like
the spires of a Venice in the forest. In two places stood a small
stack of hay on the bank, ready for the lumberer's use in the winter,
looking strange enough there. We thought of the day when this might be
a brook winding through smooth-shaven meadows on some gentleman's
grounds; and seen by moonlight then, excepting the forest that now
hems it in, how little changed it would appear!

Again and again Joe called the moose, placing the canoe close by some
favorable point of meadow for them to come out on, but listened in
vain to hear one come rushing through the woods, and concluded that
they had been hunted too much thereabouts. We saw, many times, what to
our imaginations looked like a gigantic moose, with his horns peering
from out the forest edge; but we saw the forest only, and not its
inhabitants, that night. So at last we turned about. There was now a
little fog on the water, though it was a fine, clear night above.
There were very few sounds to break the stillness of the forest.
Several times we heard the hooting of a great horned owl, as at home,
and told Joe that he would call out the moose for him, for he made a
sound considerably like the horn; but Joe answered, that the moose had
heard that sound a thousand times, and knew better; and oftener still
we were startled by the plunge of a musquash. Once, when Joe had
called again, and we were listening for moose, we heard, come faintly
echoing, or creeping from far through the moss-clad aisles, a dull,
dry, rushing sound with a solid core to it, yet as if half smothered
under the grasp of the luxuriant and fungus-like forest, like the
shutting of a door in some distant entry of the damp and shaggy
wilderness. If we had not been there, no mortal had heard it. When we
asked Joe in a whisper what it was, he answered, "Tree fall." There is
something singularly grand and impressive in the sound of a tree
falling in a perfectly calm night like this, as if the agencies which
overthrow it did not need to be excited, but worked with a subtle,
deliberate, and conscious force, like a boa-constrictor, and more
effectively then than even in a windy day. If there is any such
difference, perhaps it is because trees with the dews of the night on
them are heavier than by day.

Having reached the camp, about ten o'clock, we kindled our fire and
went to bed. Each of us had a blanket, in which he lay on the fir
twigs, with his extremities toward the fire, but nothing over his
head. It was worth the while to lie down in a country where you could
afford such great fires; that was one whole side, and the bright side,
of our world. We had first rolled up a large log some eighteen inches
through and ten feet long, for a backlog, to last all night, and then
piled on the trees to the height of three or four feet, no matter how
green or damp. In fact, we burned as much wood that night as would,
with economy and an air-tight stove, last a poor family in one of our
cities all winter. It was very agreeable, as well as independent, thus
lying in the open air, and the fire kept our uncovered extremities
warm enough. The Jesuit missionaries used to say, that, in their
journeys with the Indians in Canada, they lay on a bed which had never
been shaken up since the creation, unless by earthquakes. It is
surprising with what impunity and comfort one who has always lain in a
warm bed in a close apartment, and studiously avoided drafts of air,
can lie down on the ground without a shelter, roll himself in a
blanket, and sleep before a fire, in a frosty autumn night, just after
a long rain-storm, and even come soon to enjoy and value the fresh
air.

I lay awake awhile, watching the ascent of the sparks through the
firs, and sometimes their descent in half-extinguished cinders on my
blanket. They were as interesting as fireworks, going up in endless,
successive crowds, each after an explosion, in an eager, serpentine
course, some to five or six rods above the tree-tops before they went
out. We do not suspect how much our chimneys have concealed; and now
air-tight stoves have come to conceal all the rest. In the course of
the night, I got up once or twice and put fresh logs on the fire,
making my companions curl up their legs.

When we awoke in the morning (Saturday, September 17), there was
considerable frost whitening the leaves. We heard the sound of the
chickadee, and a few faintly lisping birds, and also of ducks in the
water about the island. I took a botanical account of stock of our
domains before the dew was off, and found that the ground-hemlock, or
American yew, was the prevailing undershrub. We breakfasted on tea,
hard-bread, and ducks.

Before the fog had fairly cleared away we paddled down the stream
again, and were soon past the mouth of the Moosehorn. These twenty
miles of the Penobscot, between Moosehead and Chesuncook lakes, are
comparatively smooth, and a great part deadwater; but from time to
time it is shallow and rapid, with rocks or gravel beds, where you can
wade across. There is no expanse of water, and no break in the forest,
and the meadow is a mere edging here and there. There are no hills
near the river nor within sight, except one or two distant mountains
seen in a few places. The banks are from six to ten feet high, but
once or twice rise gently to higher ground. In many places the forest
on the bank was but a thin strip, letting the light through from some
alder swamp or meadow behind. The conspicuous berry-bearing bushes and
trees along the shore were the red osier, with its whitish fruit,
hobble-bush, mountain-ash, tree-cranberry, choke-cherry, now ripe,
alternate cornel, and naked viburnum. Following Joe's example, I ate
the fruit of the last, and also of the hobble-bush, but found them
rather insipid and seedy. I looked very narrowly at the vegetation, as
we glided along close to the shore, and frequently made Joe turn aside
for me to pluck a plant, that I might see by comparison what was
primitive about my native river. Horehound, horse-mint, and the
sensitive fern grew close to the edge, under the willows and alders,
and wool-grass on the islands, as along the Assabet River in Concord.
It was too late for flowers, except a few asters, goldenrods, etc. In
several places we noticed the slight frame of a camp, such as we had
prepared to set up, amid the forest by the riverside, where some
lumberers or hunters had passed a night, and sometimes steps cut in
the muddy or clayey bank in front of it.

We stopped to fish for trout at the mouth of a small stream called
Ragmuff, which came in from the west, about two miles below the
Moosehorn. Here were the ruins of an old lumbering-camp, and a small
space, which had formerly been cleared and burned over, was now
densely overgrown with the red cherry and raspberries. While we were
trying for trout, Joe, Indian-like, wandered off up the Ragmuff on his
own errands, and when we were ready to start was far beyond call. So
we were compelled to make a fire and get our dinner here, not to lose
time. Some dark reddish birds, with grayer females (perhaps purple
finches), and myrtle-birds in their summer dress, hopped within six or
eight feet of us and our smoke. Perhaps they smelled the frying pork.
The latter bird, or both, made the lisping notes which I had heard in
the forest. They suggested that the few small birds found in the
wilderness are on more familiar terms with the lumberman and hunter
than those of the orchard and clearing with the farmer. I have since
found the Canada jay, and partridges, both the black and the common,
equally tame there, as if they had not yet learned to mistrust man
entirely. The chickadee, which is at home alike in the primitive woods
and in our wood-lots, still retains its confidence in the towns to a
remarkable degree.

Joe at length returned, after an hour and a half, and said that he
had been two miles up the stream exploring, and had seen a moose, but,
not having the gun, he did not get him. We made no complaint, but
concluded to look out for Joe the next time. However, this may have
been a mere mistake, for we had no reason to complain of him
afterwards. As we continued down the stream, I was surprised to hear
him whistling "O Susanna" and several other such airs, while his
paddle urged us along. Once he said, "Yes, sir-ee." His common word
was "Sartain." He paddled, as usual, on one side only, giving the
birch an impulse by using the side as a fulcrum. I asked him how the
ribs were fastened to the side rails. He answered, "I don't know, I
never noticed." Talking with him about subsisting wholly on what the
woods yielded,--game, fish, berries, etc.,--I suggested that his
ancestors did so; but he answered that he had been brought up in such
a way that he could not do it. "Yes," said he, "that's the way they
got a living, like wild fellows, wild as bears. By George! I shan't go
into the woods without provision,--hard-bread, pork, etc." He had
brought on a barrel of hard-bread and stored it at the carry for his
hunting. However, though he was a Governor's son, he had not learned
to read.

At one place below this, on the east side, where the bank was higher
and drier than usual, rising gently from the shore to a slight
elevation, some one had felled the trees over twenty or thirty acres,
and left them drying in order to burn. This was the only preparation
for a house between the Moosehead Carry and Chesuncook, but there was
no hut nor inhabitants there yet. The pioneer thus selects a site for
his house, which will, perhaps, prove the germ of a town.

My eyes were all the while on the trees, distinguishing between the
black and white spruce and the fir. You paddle along in a narrow canal
through an endless forest, and the vision I have in my mind's eye,
still, is of the small, dark, and sharp tops of tall fir and spruce
trees, and pagoda-like arbor-vitæs, crowded together on each side,
with various hard woods intermixed. Some of the arbor-vitæs were at
least sixty feet high. The hard woods, occasionally occurring
exclusively, were less wild to my eye. I fancied them ornamental
grounds, with farmhouses in the rear. The canoe and yellow birch,
beech, maple, and elm are Saxon and Norman, but the spruce and fir,
and pines generally, are Indian. The soft engravings which adorn the
annuals give no idea of a stream in such a wilderness as this. The
rough sketches in Jackson's Reports on the Geology of Maine answer
much better. At one place we saw a small grove of slender sapling
white pines, the only collection of pines that I saw on this voyage.
Here and there, however, was a full-grown, tall, and slender, but
defective one, what lumbermen call a _konchus_ tree, which they
ascertain with their axes, or by the knots. I did not learn whether
this word was Indian or English. It reminded me of the Greek κόγχη, 
a conch or shell, and I amused myself with fancying that it
might signify the dead sound which the trees yield when struck. All
the rest of the pines had been driven off.

How far men go for the material of their houses! The inhabitants of
the most civilized cities, in all ages, send into far, primitive
forests, beyond the bounds of their civilization, where the moose and
bear and savage dwell, for their pine boards for ordinary use. And, on
the other hand, the savage soon receives from cities iron
arrow-points, hatchets, and guns, to point his savageness with.

The solid and well-defined fir-tops, like sharp and regular
spearheads, black against the sky, gave a peculiar, dark, and sombre
look to the forest. The spruce-tops have a similar but more ragged
outline, their shafts also merely feathered below. The firs were
somewhat oftener regular and dense pyramids. I was struck by this
universal spiring upward of the forest evergreens. The tendency is to
slender, spiring tops, while they are narrower below. Not only the
spruce and fir, but even the arbor-vitæ and white pine, unlike the
soft, spreading second-growth, of which I saw none, all spire upwards,
lifting a dense spearhead of cones to the light and air, at any rate,
while their branches straggle after as they may; as Indians lift the
ball over the heads of the crowd in their desperate game. In this they
resemble grasses, as also palms somewhat. The hemlock is commonly a
tent-like pyramid from the ground to its summit.

After passing through some long rips, and by a large island, we
reached an interesting part of the river called the Pine Stream
Deadwater, about six miles below Ragmuff, where the river expanded to
thirty rods in width and had many islands in it, with elms and
canoe-birches, now yellowing, along the shore, and we got our first
sight of Ktaadn.

Here, about two o'clock, we turned up a small branch three or four
rods wide, which comes in on the right from the south, called Pine
Stream, to look for moose signs. We had gone but a few rods before we
saw very recent signs along the water's edge, the mud lifted up by
their feet being quite fresh, and Joe declared that they had gone
along there but a short time before. We soon reached a small meadow on
the east side, at an angle in the stream, which was, for the most
part, densely covered with alders. As we were advancing along the edge
of this, rather more quietly than usual, perhaps, on account of the
freshness of the signs,--the design being to camp up this stream, if
it promised well,--I heard a slight crackling of twigs deep in the
alders, and turned Joe's attention to it; whereupon he began to push
the canoe back rapidly; and we had receded thus half a dozen rods,
when we suddenly spied two moose standing just on the edge of the open
part of the meadow which we had passed, not more than six or seven
rods distant, looking round the alders at us. They made me think of
great frightened rabbits, with their long ears and half-inquisitive,
half-frightened looks; the true denizens of the forest (I saw at
once), filling a vacuum which now first I discovered had not been
filled for me,--_moose_-men, _wood-eaters_, the word is said to
mean,--clad in a sort of Vermont gray, or homespun. Our Nimrod, owing
to the retrograde movement, was now the farthest from the game; but
being warned of its neighborhood, he hastily stood up, and, while we
ducked, fired over our heads one barrel at the foremost, which alone
he saw, though he did not know what kind of creature it was;
whereupon this one dashed across the meadow and up a high bank on the
northeast, so rapidly as to leave but an indistinct impression of its
outlines on my mind. At the same instant, the other, a young one, but
as tall as a horse, leaped out into the stream, in full sight, and
there stood cowering for a moment, or rather its disproportionate
lowness behind gave it that appearance, and uttering two or three
trumpeting squeaks. I have an indistinct recollection of seeing the
old one pause an instant on the top of the bank in the woods, look
toward its shivering young, and then dash away again. The second
barrel was leveled at the calf, and when we expected to see it drop in
the water, after a little hesitation, it, too, got out of the water,
and dashed up the hill, though in a somewhat different direction. All
this was the work of a few seconds, and our hunter, having never seen
a moose before, did not know but they were deer, for they stood partly
in the water, nor whether he had fired at the same one twice or not.
From the style in which they went off, and the fact that he was not
used to standing up and firing from a canoe, I judged that we should
not see anything more of them. The Indian said that they were a cow
and her calf,--a yearling, or perhaps two years old, for they
accompany their dams so long; but, for my part, I had not noticed much
difference in their size. It was but two or three rods across the
meadow to the foot of the bank, which, like all the world thereabouts,
was densely wooded; but I was surprised to notice, that, as soon as
the moose had passed behind the veil of the woods, there was no sound
of footsteps to be heard from the soft, damp moss which carpets that
forest, and long before we landed, perfect silence reigned. Joe said,
"If you wound 'em moose, me sure get 'em."

We all landed at once. My companion reloaded; the Indian fastened his
birch, threw off his hat, adjusted his waistband, seized the hatchet,
and set out. He told me afterward, casually, that before we landed he
had seen a drop of blood on the bank, when it was two or three rods
off. He proceeded rapidly up the bank and through the woods, with a
peculiar, elastic, noiseless, and stealthy tread, looking to right and
left on the ground, and stepping in the faint tracks of the wounded
moose, now and then pointing in silence to a single drop of blood on
the handsome, shining leaves of the _Clintonia borealis_, which, on
every side, covered the ground, or to a dry fern stem freshly broken,
all the while chewing some leaf or else the spruce gum. I followed,
watching his motions more than the trail of the moose. After following
the trail about forty rods in a pretty direct course, stepping over
fallen trees and winding between standing ones, he at length lost it,
for there were many other moose-tracks there, and, returning once more
to the last blood-stain, traced it a little way and lost it again,
and, too soon, I thought, for a good hunter, gave it up entirely. He
traced a few steps, also, the tracks of the calf; but, seeing no
blood, soon relinquished the search.

I observed, while he was tracking the moose, a certain reticence or
moderation in him. He did not communicate several observations of
interest which he made, as a white man would have done, though they
may have leaked out afterward. At another time, when we heard a slight
crackling of twigs and he landed to reconnoitre, he stepped lightly
and gracefully, stealing through the bushes with the least possible
noise, in a way in which no white man does,--as it were, finding a
place for his foot each time.

About half an hour after seeing the moose, we pursued our voyage up
Pine Stream, and soon, coming to a part which was very shoal and also
rapid, we took out the baggage, and proceeded to carry it round, while
Joe got up with the canoe alone. We were just completing our portage
and I was absorbed in the plants, admiring the leaves of the _Aster
macrophyllus_, ten inches wide, and plucking the seeds of the great
round-leaved orchis, when Joe exclaimed from the stream that he had
killed a moose. He had found the cow moose lying dead, but quite warm,
in the middle of the stream, which was so shallow that it rested on
the bottom, with hardly a third of its body above water. It was about
an hour after it was shot, and it was swollen with water. It had run
about a hundred rods and sought the stream again, cutting off a slight
bend. No doubt a better hunter would have tracked it to this spot at
once. I was surprised at its great size, horse-like, but Joe said it
was not a large cow moose. My companion went in search of the calf
again. I took hold of the ears of the moose, while Joe pushed his
canoe down-stream toward a favorable shore, and so we made out, though
with some difficulty, its long nose frequently sticking in the
bottom, to drag it into still shallower water. It was a
brownish-black, or perhaps a dark iron-gray, on the back and sides,
but lighter beneath and in front. I took the cord which served for the
canoe's painter, and with Joe's assistance measured it carefully, the
greatest distances first, making a knot each time. The painter being
wanted, I reduced these measures that night with equal care to lengths
and fractions of my umbrella, beginning with the smallest measures,
and untying the knots as I proceeded; and when we arrived at
Chesuncook the next day, finding a two-foot rule there, I reduced the
last to feet and inches; and, moreover, I made myself a two-foot rule
of a thin and narrow strip of black ash, which would fold up
conveniently to six inches. All this pains I took because I did not
wish to be obliged to say merely that the moose was very large. Of the
various dimensions which I obtained I will mention only two. The
distance from the tips of the hoofs of the fore feet, stretched out,
to the top of the back between the shoulders, was seven feet and five
inches. I can hardly believe my own measure, for this is about two
feet greater than the height of a tall horse. (Indeed, I am now
satisfied that this measurement was incorrect, but the other measures
given here I can warrant to be correct, having proved them in a more
recent visit to those woods.) The extreme length was eight feet and
two inches. Another cow moose, which I have since measured in those
woods with a tape, was just six feet from the tip of the hoof to the
shoulders, and eight feet long as she lay.

When afterward I asked an Indian at the carry how much taller the
male was, he answered, "Eighteen inches," and made me observe the
height of a cross-stake over the fire, more than four feet from the
ground, to give me some idea of the depth of his chest. Another
Indian, at Oldtown, told me that they were nine feet high to the top
of the back, and that one which he tried weighed eight hundred pounds.
The length of the spinal projections between the shoulders is very
great. A white hunter, who was the best authority among hunters that I
could have, told me that the male was not eighteen inches taller than
the female; yet he agreed that he was sometimes nine feet high to the
top of the back, and weighed a thousand pounds. Only the male has
horns, and they rise two feet or more above the shoulders,--spreading
three or four, and sometimes six feet,--which would make him in all,
sometimes, eleven feet high! According to this calculation, the moose
is as tall, though it may not be as large, as the great Irish elk,
_Megaceros Hibernicus_, of a former period, of which Mantell says that
it "very far exceeded in magnitude any living species, the skeleton"
being "upward of ten feet high from the ground to the highest point of
the antlers." Joe said, that, though the moose shed the whole horn
annually, each new horn has an additional prong; but I have noticed
that they sometimes have more prongs on one side than on the other. I
was struck with the delicacy and tenderness of the hoofs, which divide
very far up, and the one half could be pressed very much behind the
other, thus probably making the animal surer-footed on the uneven
ground and slippery moss-covered logs of the primitive forest. They
were very unlike the stiff and battered feet of our horses and oxen.
The bare, horny part of the fore foot was just six inches long, and
the two portions could be separated four inches at the extremities.

The moose is singularly grotesque and awkward to look at. Why should
it stand so high at the shoulders? Why have so long a head? Why have
no tail to speak of? for in my examination I overlooked it entirely.
Naturalists say it is an inch and a half long. It reminded me at once
of the camelopard, high before and low behind,--and no wonder, for,
like it, it is fitted to browse on trees. The upper lip projected two
inches beyond the lower for this purpose. This was the kind of man
that was at home there; for, as near as I can learn, that has never
been the residence, but rather the hunting-ground of the Indian. The
moose will, perhaps, one day become extinct; but how naturally then,
when it exists only as a fossil relic, and unseen as that, may the
poet or sculptor invent a fabulous animal with similar branching and
leafy horns,--a sort of fucus or lichen in bone,--to be the inhabitant
of such a forest as this!

Here, just at the head of the murmuring rapids, Joe now proceeded to
skin the moose with a pocket-knife, while I looked on; and a tragical
business it was,--to see that still warm and palpitating body pierced
with a knife, to see the warm milk stream from the rent udder, and the
ghastly naked red carcass appearing from within its seemly robe, which
was made to hide it. The ball had passed through the shoulder-blade
diagonally and lodged under the skin on the opposite side, and was
partially flattened. My companion keeps it to show to his
grandchildren. He has the shanks of another moose which he has since
shot, skinned and stuffed, ready to be made into boots by putting in a
thick leather sole. Joe said, if a moose stood fronting you, you must
not fire, but advance toward him, for he will turn slowly and give you
a fair shot. In the bed of this narrow, wild, and rocky stream,
between two lofty walls of spruce and firs, a mere cleft in the forest
which the stream had made, this work went on. At length Joe had
stripped off the hide and dragged it trailing to the shore, declaring
that it weighed a hundred pounds, though probably fifty would have
been nearer the truth. He cut off a large mass of the meat to carry
along, and another, together with the tongue and nose, he put with the
hide on the shore to lie there all night, or till we returned. I was
surprised that he thought of leaving this meat thus exposed by the
side of the carcass, as the simplest course, not fearing that any
creature would touch it; but nothing did. This could hardly have
happened on the bank of one of our rivers in the eastern part of
Massachusetts; but I suspect that fewer small wild animals are
prowling there than with us. Twice, however, in this excursion, I had
a glimpse of a species of large mouse.

This stream was so withdrawn, and the moose-tracks were so fresh, that
my companions, still bent on hunting, concluded to go farther up it
and camp, and then hunt up or down at night. Half a mile above this,
at a place where I saw the _Aster puniceus_ and the beaked hazel, as
we paddled along, Joe, hearing a slight rustling amid the alders, and
seeing something black about two rods off, jumped up and whispered,
"Bear!" but before the hunter had discharged his piece, he corrected
himself to "Beaver!"--"Hedgehog!" The bullet killed a large hedgehog
more than two feet and eight inches long. The quills were rayed out
and flattened on the hinder part of its back, even as if it had lain
on that part, but were erect and long between this and the tail. Their
points, closely examined, were seen to be finely bearded or barbed,
and shaped like an awl, that is, a little concave, to give the barbs
effect. After about a mile of still water, we prepared our camp on the
right side, just at the foot of a considerable fall. Little chopping
was done that night, for fear of scaring the moose. We had moose meat
fried for supper. It tasted like tender beef, with perhaps more
flavor,--sometimes like veal.

After supper, the moon having risen, we proceeded to hunt a mile up
this stream, first "carrying" about the falls. We made a picturesque
sight, wending single file along the shore, climbing over rocks and
logs, Joe, who brought up the rear, twirling his canoe in his hands as
if it were a feather, in places where it was difficult to get along
without a burden. We launched the canoe again from the ledge over
which the stream fell, but after half a mile of still water, suitable
for hunting, it became rapid again, and we were compelled to make our
way along the shore, while Joe endeavored to get up in the birch
alone, though it was still very difficult for him to pick his way amid
the rocks in the night. We on the shore found the worst of walking, a
perfect chaos of fallen and drifted trees, and of bushes projecting
far over the water, and now and then we made our way across the mouth
of a small tributary on a kind of network of alders. So we went
tumbling on in the dark, being on the shady side, effectually scaring
all the moose and bears that might be thereabouts. At length we came
to a standstill, and Joe went forward to reconnoitre; but he reported
that it was still a continuous rapid as far as he went, or half a
mile, with no prospect of improvement, as if it were coming down from
a mountain. So we turned about, hunting back to the camp through the
still water. It was a splendid moonlight night, and I, getting sleepy
as it grew late,--for I had nothing to do,--found it difficult to
realize where I was. This stream was much more unfrequented than the
main one, lumbering operations being no longer carried on in this
quarter. It was only three or four rods wide, but the firs and spruce
through which it trickled seemed yet taller by contrast. Being in this
dreamy state, which the moonlight enhanced, I did not clearly discern
the shore, but seemed, most of the time, to be floating through
ornamental grounds,--for I associated the fir-tops with such
scenes;--very high up some Broadway, and beneath or between their
tops, I thought I saw an endless succession of porticoes and columns,
cornices and façades, verandas and churches. I did not merely fancy
this, but in my drowsy state such was the illusion. I fairly lost
myself in sleep several times, still dreaming of that architecture and
the nobility that dwelt behind and might issue from it: but all at
once I would be aroused and brought back to a sense of my actual
position by the sound of Joe's birch horn in the midst of all this
silence calling the moose, _ugh_, _ugh_, _oo-oo-oo-oo-oo-oo_, and I
prepared to hear a furious moose come rushing and crashing through the
forest, and see him burst out on to the little strip of meadow by our
side.

But, on more accounts than one, I had had enough of moose-hunting. I
had not come to the woods for this purpose, nor had I foreseen it,
though I had been willing to learn how the Indian manœuvred; but
one moose killed was as good, if not as bad, as a dozen. The
afternoon's tragedy, and my share in it, as it affected the innocence,
destroyed the pleasure of my adventure. It is true, I came as near as
is possible to come to being a hunter and miss it, myself; and as it
is, I think that I could spend a year in the woods, fishing and
hunting just enough to sustain myself, with satisfaction. This would
be next to living like a philosopher on the fruits of the earth which
you had raised, which also attracts me. But this hunting of the moose
merely for the satisfaction of killing him,--not even for the sake of
his hide,--without making any extraordinary exertion or running any
risk yourself, is too much like going out by night to some wood-side
pasture and shooting your neighbor's horses. These are God's own
horses, poor, timid creatures, that will run fast enough as soon as
they smell you, though they are nine feet high. Joe told us of some
hunters who a year or two before had shot down several oxen by night,
somewhere in the Maine woods, mistaking them for moose. And so might
any of the hunters; and what is the difference in the sport, but the
name? In the former case, having killed one of God's and _your own_
oxen, you strip off its hide,--because that is the common trophy, and,
moreover, you have heard that it may be sold for moccasins,--cut a
steak from its haunches, and leave the huge carcass to smell to heaven
for you. It is no better, at least, than to assist at a
slaughter-house.

This afternoon's experience suggested to me how base or coarse are the
motives which commonly carry men into the wilderness. The explorers
and lumberers generally are all hirelings, paid so much a day for
their labor, and as such they have no more love for wild nature than
wood-sawyers have for forests. Other white men and Indians who come
here are for the most part hunters, whose object is to slay as many
moose and other wild animals as possible. But, pray, could not one
spend some weeks or years in the solitude of this vast wilderness with
other employments than these,--employments perfectly sweet and
innocent and ennobling? For one that comes with a pencil to sketch or
sing, a thousand come with an axe or rifle. What a coarse and
imperfect use Indians and hunters make of nature! No wonder that their
race is so soon exterminated. I already, and for weeks afterward, felt
my nature the coarser for this part of my woodland experience, and was
reminded that our life should be lived as tenderly and daintily as one
would pluck a flower.

With these thoughts, when we reached our camping-ground, I decided to
leave my companions to continue moose-hunting down the stream, while I
prepared the camp, though they requested me not to chop much nor make
a large fire, for fear I should scare their game. In the midst of the
damp fir wood, high on the mossy bank, about nine o'clock of this
bright moonlight night, I kindled a fire, when they were gone, and,
sitting on the fir twigs, within sound of the falls, examined by its
light the botanical specimens which I had collected that afternoon,
and wrote down some of the reflections which I have here expanded; or
I walked along the shore and gazed up the stream, where the whole
space above the falls was filled with mellow light. As I sat before
the fire on my fir-twig seat, without walls above or around me, I
remembered how far on every hand that wilderness stretched, before you
came to cleared or cultivated fields, and wondered if any bear or
moose was watching the light of my fire; for Nature looked sternly
upon me on account of the murder of the moose.

Strange that so few ever come to the woods to see how the pine lives
and grows and spires, lifting its evergreen arms to the light,--to see
its perfect success; but most are content to behold it in the shape of
many broad boards brought to market, and deem _that_ its true success!
But the pine is no more lumber than man is, and to be made into boards
and houses is no more its true and highest use than the truest use of
a man is to be cut down and made into manure. There is a higher law
affecting our relation to pines as well as to men. A pine cut down, a
dead pine, is no more a pine than a dead human carcass is a man. Can
he who has discovered only some of the values of whalebone and whale
oil be said to have discovered the true use of the whale? Can he who
slays the elephant for his ivory be said to have "seen the
elephant"? These are petty and accidental uses; just as if a stronger
race were to kill us in order to make buttons and flageolets of our
bones; for everything may serve a lower as well as a higher use. Every
creature is better alive than dead, men and moose and pine trees, and
he who understands it aright will rather preserve its life than
destroy it.

  [Illustration: _Pine Tree, Boar Mountain_]

Is it the lumberman, then, who is the friend and lover of the pine,
stands nearest to it, and understands its nature best? Is it the
tanner who has barked it, or he who has boxed it for turpentine, whom
posterity will fable to have been changed into a pine at last? No! no!
it is the poet; he it is who makes the truest use of the pine, who
does not fondle it with an axe, nor tickle it with a saw, nor stroke
it with a plane, who knows whether its heart is false without cutting
into it, who has not bought the stumpage of the township on which it
stands. All the pines shudder and heave a sigh when that man steps on
the forest floor. No, it is the poet, who loves them as his own shadow
in the air, and lets them stand. I have been into the lumber-yard, and
the carpenter's shop, and the tannery, and the lampblack factory, and
the turpentine clearing; but when at length I saw the tops of the
pines waving and reflecting the light at a distance high over all the
rest of the forest, I realized that the former were not the highest
use of the pine. It is not their bones or hide or tallow that I love
most. It is the living spirit of the tree, not its spirit of
turpentine, with which I sympathize, and which heals my cuts. It is as
immortal as I am, and perchance will go to as high a heaven, there to
tower above me still.

Ere long, the hunters returned, not having seen a moose, but, in
consequence of my suggestions, bringing a quarter of the dead one,
which, with ourselves, made quite a load for the canoe.

After breakfasting on moose meat, we returned down Pine Stream on our
way to Chesuncook Lake, which was about five miles distant. We could
see the red carcass of the moose lying in Pine Stream when nearly half
a mile off. Just below the mouth of this stream were the most
considerable rapids between the two lakes, called Pine Stream Falls,
where were large flat rocks washed smooth, and at this time you could
easily wade across above them. Joe ran down alone while we walked over
the portage, my companion collecting spruce gum for his friends at
home, and I looking for flowers. Near the lake, which we were
approaching with as much expectation as if it had been a
university,--for it is not often that the stream of our life opens
into such expansions,--were islands, and a low and meadowy shore with
scattered trees, birches, white and yellow, slanted over the water,
and maples,--many of the white birches killed, apparently by
inundations. There was considerable native grass; and even a few
cattle--whose movements we heard, though we did not see them,
mistaking them at first for moose--were pastured there.

On entering the lake, where the stream runs southeasterly, and for
some time before, we had a view of the mountains about Ktaadn
(_Katahdinauquoh_ one says they are called), like a cluster of blue
fungi of rank growth, apparently twenty-five or thirty miles distant,
in a southeast direction, their summits concealed by clouds. Joe
called some of them the Sowadnehunk Mountains. This is the name of a
stream there, which another Indian told us meant "running between
mountains." Though some lower summits were afterward uncovered, we got
no more complete view of Ktaadn while we were in the woods. The
clearing to which we were bound was on the right of the mouth of the
river, and was reached by going round a low point, where the water was
shallow to a great distance from the shore. Chesuncook Lake extends
northwest and southeast, and is called eighteen miles long and three
wide, without an island. We had entered the northwest corner of it,
and when near the shore could see only part way down it. The principal
mountains visible from the land here were those already mentioned,
between southeast and east, and a few summits a little west of north,
but generally the north and northwest horizon about the St. John and
the British boundary was comparatively level.

Ansell Smith's, the oldest and principal clearing about this lake,
appeared to be quite a harbor for batteaux and canoes; seven or eight
of the former were lying about, and there was a small scow for hay,
and a capstan on a platform, now high and dry, ready to be floated and
anchored to tow rafts with. It was a very primitive kind of harbor,
where boats were drawn up amid the stumps,--such a one, methought, as
the Argo might have been launched in. There were five other huts with
small clearings on the opposite side of the lake, all at this end and
visible from this point. One of the Smiths told me that it was so far
cleared that they came here to live and built the present house four
years before, though the family had been here but a few months.

I was interested to see how a pioneer lived on this side of the
country. His life is in some respects more adventurous than that of
his brother in the West; for he contends with winter as well as the
wilderness, and there is a greater interval of time at least between
him and the army which is to follow. Here immigration is a tide which
may ebb when it has swept away the pines; there it is not a tide, but
an inundation, and roads and other improvements come steadily rushing
after.

As we approached the log house, a dozen rods from the lake, and
considerably elevated above it, the projecting ends of the logs
lapping over each other irregularly several feet at the corners gave
it a very rich and picturesque look, far removed from the meanness of
weather-boards. It was a very spacious, low building, about eighty
feet long, with many large apartments. The walls were well clayed
between the logs, which were large and round, except on the upper and
under sides, and as visible inside as out, successive bulging cheeks
gradually lessening upwards and tuned to each other with the axe, like
Pandean pipes. Probably the musical forest gods had not yet cast them
aside; they never do till they are split or the bark is gone. It was a
style of architecture not described by Vitruvius, I suspect, though
possibly hinted at in the biography of Orpheus; none of your frilled
or fluted columns, which have cut such a false swell, and support
nothing but a gable end and their builder's pretensions,--that is,
with the multitude; and as for "ornamentation," one of those words
with a dead tail which architects very properly use to describe their
flourishes, there were the lichens and mosses and fringes of bark,
which nobody troubled himself about. We certainly leave the handsomest
paint and clapboards behind in the woods, when we strip off the bark
and poison ourselves with white-lead in the towns. We get but half the
spoils of the forest. For beauty, give me trees with the fur on. This
house was designed and constructed with the freedom of stroke of a
forester's axe, without other compass and square than Nature uses.
Wherever the logs were cut off by a window or door, that is, were not
kept in place by alternate overlapping, they were held one upon
another by very large pins, driven in diagonally on each side, where
branches might have been, and then cut off so close up and down as not
to project beyond the bulge of the log, as if the logs clasped each
other in their arms. These logs were posts, studs, boards, clapboards,
laths, plaster, and nails, all in one. Where the citizen uses a mere
sliver or board, the pioneer uses the whole trunk of a tree. The house
had large stone chimneys, and was roofed with spruce-bark. The windows
were imported, all but the casings. One end was a regular logger's
camp, for the boarders, with the usual fir floor and log benches. Thus
this house was but a slight departure from the hollow tree, which the
bear still inhabits,--being a hollow made with trees piled up, with a
coating of bark like its original.

The cellar was a separate building, like an ice-house, and it answered
for a refrigerator at this season, our moose meat being kept there. It
was a potato hole with a permanent roof. Each structure and
institution here was so primitive that you could at once refer it to
its source; but our buildings commonly suggest neither their origin
nor their purpose. There was a large, and what farmers would call
handsome, barn, part of whose boards had been sawed by a whip-saw; and
the saw-pit, with its great pile of dust, remained before the house.
The long split shingles on a portion of the barn were laid a foot to
the weather, suggesting what kind of weather they have there. Grant's
barn at Caribou Lake was said to be still larger, the biggest ox-nest
in the woods, fifty feet by a hundred. Think of a monster barn in that
primitive forest lifting its gray back above the tree-tops! Man makes
very much such a nest for his domestic animals, of withered grass and
fodder, as the squirrels and many other wild creatures do for
themselves.

There was also a blacksmith's shop, where plainly a good deal of work
was done. The oxen and horses used in lumbering operations were shod,
and all the iron-work of sleds, etc., was repaired or made here. I saw
them load a batteau at the Moosehead Carry, the next Tuesday, with
about thirteen hundredweight of bar iron for this shop. This reminded
me how primitive and honorable a trade was Vulcan's. I do not hear
that there was any carpenter or tailor among the gods. The smith seems
to have preceded these and every other mechanic at Chesuncook as well
as on Olympus, and his family is the most widely dispersed, whether he
be christened John or Ansell.

Smith owned two miles down the lake by half a mile in width. There
were about one hundred acres cleared here. He cut seventy tons of
English hay this year on this ground, and twenty more on another
clearing, and he uses it all himself in lumbering operations. The barn
was crowded with pressed hay, and a machine to press it. There was a
large garden full of roots,--turnips, beets, carrots, potatoes, etc.,
all of great size. They said that they were worth as much here as in
New York. I suggested some currants for sauce, especially as they had
no apple trees set out, and showed how easily they could be obtained.

There was the usual long-handled axe of the primitive woods by the
door, three and a half feet long,--for my new black-ash rule was in
constant use,--and a large, shaggy dog, whose nose, report said, was
full of porcupine quills. I can testify that he looked very sober.
This is the usual fortune of pioneer dogs, for they have to face the
brunt of the battle for their race, and act the part of Arnold
Winkelried without intending it. If he should invite one of his town
friends up this way, suggesting moose meat and unlimited freedom, the
latter might pertinently inquire, "What is that sticking in your
nose?" When a generation or two have used up all the enemies' darts,
their successors lead a comparatively easy life. We owe to our fathers
analogous blessings. Many old people receive pensions for no other
reason, it seems to me, but as a compensation for having lived a long
time ago. No doubt our town dogs still talk, in a snuffling way, about
the days that tried dogs' noses. How they got a cat up there I do not
know, for they are as shy as my aunt about entering a canoe. I
wondered that she did not run up a tree on the way; but perhaps she
was bewildered by the very crowd of opportunities.

Twenty or thirty lumberers, Yankee and Canadian, were coming and
going,--Aleck among the rest,--and from time to time an Indian touched
here. In the winter there are sometimes a hundred men lodged here at
once. The most interesting piece of news that circulated among them
appeared to be, that four horses belonging to Smith, worth seven
hundred dollars, had passed by farther into the woods a week before.

The white pine tree was at the bottom or farther end of all this. It
is a war against the pines, the only real Aroostook or Penobscot war.
I have no doubt that they lived pretty much the same sort of life in
the Homeric age, for men have always thought more of eating than of
fighting; then, as now, their minds ran chiefly on the "hot bread and
sweet cakes;" and the fur and lumber trade is an old story to Asia and
Europe. I doubt if men ever made a trade of heroism. In the days of
Achilles, even, they delighted in big barns, and perchance in pressed
hay, and he who possessed the most valuable team was the best fellow.

We had designed to go on at evening up the Caucomgomoc, whose mouth
was a mile or two distant, to the lake of the same name, about ten
miles off; but some Indians of Joe's acquaintance, who were making
canoes on the Caucomgomoc, came over from that side, and gave so poor
an account of the moose-hunting, so many had been killed there lately,
that my companions concluded not to go there. Joe spent this Sunday
and the night with his acquaintances. The lumberers told me that there
were many moose hereabouts, but no caribou or deer. A man from Oldtown
had killed ten or twelve moose, within a year, so near the house that
they heard all his guns. His name may have been Hercules, for aught I
know, though I should rather have expected to hear the rattling of his
club; but, no doubt, he keeps pace with the improvements of the age,
and uses a Sharp's rifle now; probably he gets all his armor made and
repaired at Smith's shop. One moose had been killed and another shot
at within sight of the house within two years. I do not know whether
Smith has yet got a poet to look after the cattle, which, on account
of the early breaking up of the ice, are compelled to summer in the
woods, but I would suggest this office to such of my acquaintances as
love to write verses and go a-gunning.

After a dinner at which apple-sauce was the greatest luxury to me, but
our moose meat was oftenest called for by the lumberers, I walked
across the clearing into the forest, southward, returning along the
shore. For my dessert, I helped myself to a large slice of the
Chesuncook woods, and took a hearty draught of its waters with all my
senses. The woods were as fresh and full of vegetable life as a lichen
in wet weather, and contained many interesting plants; but unless they
are of white pine, they are treated with as little respect here as a
mildew, and in the other case they are only the more quickly cut down.
The shore was of coarse, flat, slate rocks, often in slabs, with the
surf beating on it. The rocks and bleached drift-logs, extending some
way into the shaggy woods, showed a rise and fall of six or eight
feet, caused partly by the dam at the outlet. They said that in winter
the snow was three feet deep on a level here, and sometimes four or
five,--that the ice on the lake was two feet thick, clear, and four
feet including the snow-ice. Ice had already formed in vessels.

We lodged here this Sunday night in a comfortable bedroom, apparently
the best one; and all that I noticed unusual in the night--for I still
kept taking notes, like a spy in the camp--was the creaking of the
thin split boards, when any of our neighbors stirred.

Such were the first rude beginnings of a town. They spoke of the
practicability of a winter road to the Moosehead Carry, which would
not cost much, and would connect them with steam and staging and all
the busy world. I almost doubted if the lake would be there,--the
self-same lake,--preserve its form and identity, when the shores
should be cleared and settled; as if these lakes and streams which
explorers report never awaited the advent of the citizen.

The sight of one of these frontier houses, built of these great logs,
whose inhabitants have unflinchingly maintained their ground many
summers and winters in the wilderness, reminds me of famous forts,
like Ticonderoga or Crown Point, which have sustained memorable
sieges. They are especially winter-quarters, and at this season this
one had a partially deserted look, as if the siege were raised a
little, the snowbanks being melted from before it, and its garrison
accordingly reduced. I think of their daily food as rations,--it is
called "supplies;" a Bible and a greatcoat are munitions of war, and a
single man seen about the premises is a sentinel on duty. You expect
that he will require the countersign, and will perchance take you for
Ethan Allen, come to demand the surrender of his fort in the name of
the Continental Congress. It is a sort of ranger service. Arnold's
expedition is a daily experience with these settlers. They can prove
that they were out at almost any time; and I think that all the first
generation of them deserve a pension more than any that went to the
Mexican war.

Early the next morning we started on our return up the Penobscot, my
companion wishing to go about twenty-five miles above the Moosehead
Carry to a camp near the junction of the two forks, and look for moose
there. Our host allowed us something for the quarter of the moose
which we had brought, and which he was glad to get. Two explorers from
Chamberlain Lake started at the same time that we did. Red flannel
shirts should be worn in the woods, if only for the fine contrast
which this color makes with the evergreens and the water. Thus I
thought when I saw the forms of the explorers in their birch, poling
up the rapids before us, far off against the forest. It is the
surveyor's color also, most distinctly seen under all circumstances.
We stopped to dine at Ragmuff, as before. My companion it was who
wandered up the stream to look for moose this time, while Joe went to
sleep on the bank, so that we felt sure of him; and I improved the
opportunity to botanize and bathe. Soon after starting again, while
Joe was gone back in the canoe for the frying-pan, which had been
left, we picked a couple of quarts of tree-cranberries for a sauce.

I was surprised by Joe's asking me how far it was to the Moosehorn. He
was pretty well acquainted with this stream, but he had noticed that I
was curious about distances, and had several maps. He and Indians
generally, with whom I have talked, are not able to describe
dimensions or distances in our measures with any accuracy. He could
tell, perhaps, at what time we should arrive, but not how far it was.
We saw a few wood ducks, sheldrakes, and black ducks, but they were
not so numerous there at that season as on our river at home. We
scared the same family of wood ducks before us, going and returning.
We also heard the note of one fish hawk, somewhat like that of a
pigeon woodpecker, and soon after saw him perched near the top of a
dead white pine against the island where we had first camped, while a
company of peetweets were twittering and teetering about over the
carcass of a moose on a low sandy spit just beneath. We drove the fish
hawk from perch to perch, each time eliciting a scream or whistle, for
many miles before us. Our course being up-stream, we were obliged to
work much harder than before, and had frequent use for a pole.
Sometimes all three of us paddled together, standing up, small and
heavily laden as the canoe was. About six miles from Moosehead, we
began to see the mountains east of the north end of the lake, and at
four o'clock we reached the carry.

The Indians were still encamped here. There were three, including the
St. Francis Indian who had come in the steamer with us. One of the
others was called Sabattis. Joe and the St. Francis Indian were
plainly clear Indian, the other two apparently mixed Indian and white;
but the difference was confined to their features and complexion, for
all that I could see. We here cooked the tongue of the moose for
supper,--having left the nose, which is esteemed the choicest part, at
Chesuncook, boiling, it being a good deal of trouble to prepare it.
We also stewed our tree-cranberries (_Viburnum opulus_), sweetening
them with sugar. The lumberers sometimes cook them with molasses. They
were used in Arnold's expedition. This sauce was very grateful to us
who had been confined to hard-bread, pork, and moose meat, and,
notwithstanding their seeds, we all three pronounced them equal to the
common cranberry; but perhaps some allowance is to be made for our
forest appetites. It would be worth the while to cultivate them, both
for beauty and for food. I afterward saw them in a garden in Bangor.
Joe said that they were called _ebeemenar_.

While we were getting supper, Joe commenced curing the moose-hide, on
which I had sat a good part of the voyage, he having already cut most
of the hair off with his knife at the Caucomgomoc. He set up two stout
forked poles on the bank, seven or eight feet high, and as much
asunder east and west, and having cut slits eight or ten inches long,
and the same distance apart, close to the edge, on the sides of the
hide, he threaded poles through them, and then, placing one of the
poles on the forked stakes, tied the other down tightly at the bottom.
The two ends also were tied with cedar bark, their usual string, to
the upright poles, through small holes at short intervals. The hide,
thus stretched, and slanted a little to the north, to expose its flesh
side to the sun, measured, in the extreme, eight feet long by six
high. Where any flesh still adhered, Joe boldly scored it with his
knife to lay it open to the sun. It now appeared somewhat spotted and
injured by the duck shot. You may see the old frames on which hides
have been stretched at many camping-places in these woods.

For some reason or other, the going to the forks of the Penobscot was
given up, and we decided to stop here, my companion intending to hunt
down the stream at night. The Indians invited us to lodge with them,
but my companion inclined to go to the log camp on the carry. This
camp was close and dirty, and had an ill smell, and I preferred to
accept the Indians' offer, if we did not make a camp for ourselves;
for, though they were dirty, too, they were more in the open air, and
were much more agreeable, and even refined company, than the
lumberers. The most interesting question entertained at the lumberers'
camp was, which man could "handle" any other on the carry; and, for
the most part, they possessed no qualities which you could not lay
hands on. So we went to the Indians' camp or wigwam.

It was rather windy, and therefore Joe concluded to hunt after
midnight, if the wind went down, which the other Indians thought it
would not do, because it was from the south. The two mixed-bloods,
however, went off up the river for moose at dark, before we arrived at
their camp. This Indian camp was a slight, patched-up affair, which
had stood there several weeks, built shed-fashion, open to the fire on
the west. If the wind changed, they could turn it round. It was formed
by two forked stakes and a cross-bar, with rafters slanted from this
to the ground. The covering was partly an old sail, partly birch-bark,
quite imperfect, but securely tied on, and coming down to the ground
on the sides. A large log was rolled up at the back side for a
headboard, and two or three moose-hides were spread on the ground
with the hair up. Various articles of their wardrobe were tucked
around the sides and corners, or under the roof. They were smoking
moose meat on just such a crate as is represented by With, in De Bry's
"Collectio Peregrinationum," published in 1588, and which the natives
of Brazil called _boucan_ (whence buccaneer), on which were frequently
shown pieces of human flesh drying along with the rest. It was erected
in front of the camp over the usual large fire, in the form of an
oblong square. Two stout forked stakes, four or five feet apart and
five feet high, were driven into the ground at each end, and then two
poles ten feet long were stretched across over the fire, and smaller
ones laid transversely on these a foot apart. On the last hung large,
thin slices of moose meat smoking and drying, a space being left open
over the centre of the fire. There was the whole heart, black as a
thirty-two pound ball, hanging at one corner. They said that it took
three or four days to cure this meat, and it would keep a year or
more. Refuse pieces lay about on the ground in different stages of
decay, and some pieces also in the fire, half buried and sizzling in
the ashes, as black and dirty as an old shoe. These last I at first
thought were thrown away, but afterwards found that they were being
cooked. Also a tremendous rib-piece was roasting before the fire,
being impaled on an upright stake forced in and out between the ribs.
There was a moose-hide stretched and curing on poles like ours, and
quite a pile of cured skins close by. They had killed twenty-two moose
within two months, but, as they could use but very little of the meat,
they left the carcases on the ground. Altogether it was about as
savage a sight as was ever witnessed, and I was carried back at once
three hundred years. There were many torches of birch-bark, shaped
like straight tin horns, lying ready for use on a stump outside.

For fear of dirt, we spread our blankets over their hides, so as not
to touch them anywhere. The St. Francis Indian and Joe alone were
there at first, and we lay on our backs talking with them till
midnight. They were very sociable, and, when they did not talk with
us, kept up a steady chatting in their own language. We heard a small
bird just after dark, which, Joe said, sang at a certain hour in the
night,--at ten o'clock, he believed. We also heard the hylodes and
tree-toads, and the lumberers singing in their camp a quarter of a
mile off. I told them that I had seen pictured in old books pieces of
human flesh drying on these crates; whereupon they repeated some
tradition about the Mohawks eating human flesh, what parts they
preferred, etc., and also of a battle with the Mohawks near Moosehead,
in which many of the latter were killed; but I found that they knew
but little of the history of their race, and could be entertained by
stories about their ancestors as readily as any way. At first I was
nearly roasted out, for I lay against one side of the camp, and felt
the heat reflected not only from the birch-bark above, but from the
side; and again I remembered the sufferings of the Jesuit
missionaries, and what extremes of heat and cold the Indians were said
to endure. I struggled long between my desire to remain and talk with
them and my impulse to rush out and stretch myself on the cool grass;
and when I was about to take the last step, Joe, hearing my murmurs,
or else being uncomfortable himself, got up and partially dispersed
the fire. I suppose that that is Indian manners,--to defend yourself.

While lying there listening to the Indians, I amused myself with
trying to guess at their subject by their gestures, or some proper
name introduced. There can be no more startling evidence of their
being a distinct and comparatively aboriginal race than to hear this
unaltered Indian language, which the white man cannot speak nor
understand. We may suspect change and deterioration in almost every
other particular but the language which is so wholly unintelligible to
us. It took me by surprise, though I had found so many arrowheads, and
convinced me that the Indian was not the invention of historians and
poets. It was a purely wild and primitive American sound, as much as
the barking of a chickaree, and I could not understand a syllable of
it; but Paugus, had he been there, would have understood it. These
Abenakis gossiped, laughed, and jested, in the language in which
Eliot's Indian Bible is written, the language which has been spoken in
New England who shall say how long? These were the sounds that issued
from the wigwams of this country before Columbus was born; they have
not yet died away; and, with remarkably few exceptions, the language
of their forefathers is still copious enough for them. I felt that I
stood, or rather lay, as near to the primitive man of America, that
night, as any of its discoverers ever did.

In the midst of their conversation, Joe suddenly appealed to me to
know how long Moosehead Lake was.

Meanwhile, as we lay there, Joe was making and trying his horn, to be
ready for hunting after midnight. The St. Francis Indian also amused
himself with sounding it, or rather calling through it; for the sound
is made with the voice, and not by blowing through the horn. The
latter appeared to be a speculator in moose-hides. He bought my
companion's for two dollars and a quarter, green. Joe said that it was
worth two and a half at Oldtown. Its chief use is for moccasins. One
or two of these Indians wore them. I was told that, by a recent law of
Maine, foreigners are not allowed to kill moose there at any season;
white Americans can kill them only at a particular season, but the
Indians of Maine at all seasons. The St. Francis Indian accordingly
asked my companion for a _wighiggin_, or bill, to show, since he was a
foreigner. He lived near Sorel. I found that he could write his name
very well, Tahmunt Swasen. One Ellis, an old white man of Guilford, a
town through which we passed, not far from the south end of Moosehead,
was the most celebrated moose-hunter of those parts. Indians and
whites spoke with equal respect of him. Tahmunt said that there were
more moose here than in the Adirondack country in New York, where he
had hunted; that three years before there were a great many about, and
there were a great many now in the woods, but they did not come out to
the water. It was of no use to hunt them at midnight,--they would not
come out then. I asked Sabattis, after he came home, if the moose
never attacked him. He answered that you must not fire many times, so
as to mad him. "I fire once and hit him in the right place, and in the
morning I find him. He won't go far. But if you keep firing, you mad
him. I fired once five bullets, every one through the heart, and he
did not mind 'em at all; it only made him more mad." I asked him if
they did not hunt them with dogs. He said that they did so in winter,
but never in the summer, for then it was of no use; they would run
right off straight and swiftly a hundred miles.

Another Indian said that the moose, once scared, would run all day. A
dog will hang to their lips, and be carried along till he is swung
against a tree and drops off. They cannot run on a "glaze," though
they can run in snow four feet deep; but the caribou can run on ice.
They commonly find two or three moose together. They cover themselves
with water, all but their noses, to escape flies. He had the horns of
what he called "the black moose that goes in low lands." These spread
three or four feet. The "red moose" was another kind, "running on
mountains," and had horns which spread six feet. Such were his
distinctions. Both can move their horns. The broad flat blades are
covered with hair, and are so soft, when the animal is alive, that you
can run a knife through them. They regard it as a good or bad sign, if
the horns turn this way or that. His caribou horns had been gnawed by
mice in his wigwam, but he thought that the horns neither of the moose
nor of the caribou were ever gnawed while the creature was alive, as
some have asserted. An Indian, whom I met after this at Oldtown, who
had carried about a bear and other animals of Maine to exhibit, told
me that thirty years ago there were not so many moose in Maine as
now; also, that the moose were very easily tamed, and would come back
when once fed, and so would deer, but not caribou. The Indians of this
neighborhood are about as familiar with the moose as we are with the
ox, having associated with them for so many generations. Father
Rasles, in his Dictionary of the Abenaki Language, gives not only a
word for the male moose (_aianbé_), and another for the female
(_hèrar_), but for the bone which is in the middle of the heart of the
moose (!), and for his left hind leg.

There were none of the small deer up there; they are more common about
the settlements. One ran into the city of Bangor two years before, and
jumped through a window of costly plate glass, and then into a mirror,
where it thought it recognized one of its kind, and out again, and so
on, leaping over the heads of the crowd, until it was captured. This
the inhabitants speak of as the deer that went a-shopping. The
last-mentioned Indian spoke of the _lunxus_ or Indian devil (which I
take to be the cougar, and not the _Gulo luscus_), as the only animal
in Maine which man need fear; it would follow a man, and did not mind
a fire. He also said that beavers were getting to be pretty numerous
again, where we went, but their skins brought so little now that it
was not profitable to hunt them.

I had put the ears of our moose, which were ten inches long, to dry
along with the moose meat over the fire, wishing to preserve them; but
Sabattis told me that I must skin and cure them, else the hair would
all come off. He observed that they made tobacco pouches of the skins
of their ears, putting the two together inside to inside. I asked him
how he got fire; and he produced a little cylindrical box of friction
matches. He also had flints and steel, and some punk, which was not
dry; I think it was from the yellow birch. "But suppose you upset, and
all these and your powder get wet." "Then," said he, "we wait till we
get to where there is some fire." I produced from my pocket a little
vial, containing matches, stoppled water-tight, and told him, that,
though we were upset, we should still have some dry matches; at which
he stared without saying a word.

We lay awake thus a long while talking, and they gave us the meaning
of many Indian names of lakes and streams in the vicinity,--especially
Tahmunt. I asked the Indian name of Moosehead Lake. Joe answered
_Sebamook_; Tahmunt pronounced it _Sebemook_. When I asked what it
meant, they answered, Moosehead Lake. At length, getting my meaning,
they alternately repeated the word over to themselves, as a
philologist might,--_Sebamook_,--_Sebamook_,--now and then comparing
notes in Indian; for there was a slight difference in their dialects;
and finally Tahmunt said, "Ugh! I know,"--and he rose up partly on the
moose-hide,--"like as here is a place, and there is a place," pointing
to different parts of the hide, "and you take water from there and
fill this, and it stays here; that is _Sebamook_." I understood him to
mean that it was a reservoir of water which did not run away, the
river coming in on one side and passing out again near the same place,
leaving a permanent bay. Another Indian said, that it meant Large Bay
Lake, and that _Sebago_ and _Sebec_, the names of other lakes, were
kindred words, meaning large open water. Joe said that _Seboois_ meant
Little River. I observed their inability, often described, to convey
an abstract idea. Having got the idea, though indistinctly, they
groped about in vain for words with which to express it. Tahmunt
thought that the whites called it Moosehead Lake, because Mount Kineo,
which commands it, is shaped like a moose's head, and that Moose River
was so called "because the mountain points right across the lake to
its mouth." John Josselyn, writing about 1673, says, "Twelve miles
from Casco Bay, and passable for men and horses, is a lake, called by
the Indians Sebug. On the brink thereof, at one end, is the famous
rock, shaped like a moose deer or helk, diaphanous, and called the
Moose Rock." He appears to have confounded Sebamook with Sebago, which
is nearer, but has no "diaphanous" rock on its shore.

I give more of their definitions, for what they are worth,--partly
_because_ they differ sometimes from the commonly received ones. They
never analyzed these words before. After long deliberation and
repeating of the word,--for it gave much trouble,--Tahmunt said that
_Chesuncook_ meant a place where many streams emptied in (?), and he
enumerated them,--Penobscot, Umbazookskus, Cusabesex, Red Brook, etc.
"_Caucomgomoc_,--what does that mean?" "What are those large white
birds?" he asked. "Gulls," said I. "Ugh! Gull Lake." _Pammadumcook_,
Joe thought, meant the Lake with Gravelly Bottom or Bed. _Kenduskeag_,
Tahmunt concluded at last, after asking if birches went up it,--for he
said that he was not much acquainted with it,--meant something like
this: "You go up Penobscot till you come to _Kenduskeag_, and you go
by, you don't turn up there. That is _Kenduskeag_." (?) Another
Indian, however, who knew the river better, told us afterward that it
meant Little Eel River. _Mattawamkeag_ was a place where two rivers
meet. (?) _Penobscot_ was Rocky River. One writer says that this was
"originally the name of only a section of the main channel, from the
head of the tide-water to a short distance above Oldtown."

A very intelligent Indian, whom we afterward met, son-in-law of
Neptune, gave us also these other definitions: _Umbazookskus_, Meadow
Stream; _Millinoket_, Place of Islands; _Aboljacarmegus_, Smooth-Ledge
Falls (and Deadwater); _Aboljacarmeguscook_, the stream emptying in
(the last was the word he gave when I asked about _Aboljacknagesic_,
which he did not recognize); _Mattahumkeag_, Sand-Creek Pond;
_Piscataquis_, Branch of a River.

I asked our hosts what _Musketaquid_, the Indian name of Concord,
Massachusetts, meant; but they changed it to _Musketicook_, and
repeated that, and Tahmunt said that it meant Dead Stream, which is
probably true. _Cook_ appears to mean stream, and perhaps _quid_
signifies the place or ground. When I asked the meaning of the names
of two of our hills, they answered that they were another language. As
Tahmunt said that he traded at Quebec, my companion inquired the
meaning of the word _Quebec_, about which there has been so much
question. He did not know, but began to conjecture. He asked what
those great ships were called that carried soldiers. "Men-of-war," we
answered. "Well," he said, "when the English ships came up the river,
they could not go any farther, it was so narrow there; they must go
back,--go-back,--that's Que-bec." I mention this to show the value of
his authority in the other cases.

Late at night the other two Indians came home from moose-hunting, not
having been successful, aroused the fire again, lighted their pipes,
smoked awhile, took something strong to drink, and ate some moose
meat, and, finding what room they could, lay down on the moose-hides;
and thus we passed the night, two white men and four Indians, side by
side.

When I awoke in the morning the weather was drizzling. One of the
Indians was lying outside, rolled in his blanket, on the opposite side
of the fire, for want of room. Joe had neglected to awake my
companion, and he had done no hunting that night. Tahmunt was making a
cross-bar for his canoe with a singularly shaped knife, such as I have
since seen other Indians using. The blade was thin, about three
quarters of an inch wide, and eight or nine inches long, but curved
out of its plane into a hook, which he said made it more convenient to
shave with. As the Indians very far north and northwest use the same
kind of knife, I suspect that it was made according to an aboriginal
pattern, though some white artisans may use a similar one. The Indians
baked a loaf of flour bread in a spider on its edge before the fire
for their breakfast; and while my companion was making tea, I caught a
dozen sizable fishes in the Penobscot, two kinds of sucker and one
trout. After we had breakfasted by ourselves, one of our bed-fellows,
who had also breakfasted, came along, and, being invited, took a cup
of tea, and finally, taking up the common platter, licked it clean.
But he was nothing to a white fellow, a lumberer, who was continually
stuffing himself with the Indians' moose meat, and was the butt of his
companions accordingly. He seems to have thought that it was a feast
"to eat all." It is commonly said that the white man finally surpasses
the Indian on his own ground, and it was proved true in this case. I
cannot swear to his employment during the hours of darkness, but I saw
him at it again as soon as it was light, though he came a quarter of a
mile to his work.

The rain prevented our continuing any longer in the woods; so, giving
some of our provisions and utensils to the Indians, we took leave of
them. This being the steamer's day, I set out for the lake at once.

I walked over the carry alone and waited at the head of the lake. An
eagle, or some other large bird, flew screaming away from its perch by
the shore at my approach. For an hour after I reached the shore there
was not a human being to be seen, and I had all that wide prospect to
myself. I thought that I heard the sound of the steamer before she
came in sight on the open lake. I noticed at the landing, when the
steamer came in, one of our bed-fellows, who had been a-moose-hunting
the night before, now very sprucely dressed in a clean white shirt and
fine black pants, a true Indian dandy, who had evidently come over the
carry to show himself to any arrivers on the north shore of Moosehead
Lake, just as New York dandies take a turn up Broadway and stand on
the steps of a hotel.

Midway the lake we took on board two manly-looking middle-aged men,
with their batteau, who had been exploring for six weeks as far as the
Canada line, and had let their beards grow. They had the skin of a
beaver, which they had recently caught, stretched on an oval hoop,
though the fur was not good at that season. I talked with one of them,
telling him that I had come all this distance partly to see where the
white pine, the Eastern stuff of which our houses are built, grew, but
that on this and a previous excursion into another part of Maine I had
found it a scarce tree; and I asked him where I must look for it. With
a smile, he answered that he could hardly tell me. However, he said
that he had found enough to employ two teams the next winter in a
place where there was thought to be none left. What was considered a
"tip-top" tree now was not looked at twenty years ago, when he first
went into the business; but they succeeded very well now with what was
considered quite inferior timber then. The explorer used to cut into a
tree higher and higher up, to see if it was false-hearted, and if
there was a rotten heart as big as his arm, he let it alone; but now
they cut such a tree and sawed it all around the rot, and it made the
very best of boards, for in such a case they were never shaky.

One connected with lumbering operations at Bangor told me that the
largest pine belonging to his firm, cut the previous winter, "scaled"
in the woods four thousand five hundred feet, and was worth ninety
dollars in the log at the Bangor boom in Oldtown. They cut a road
three and a half miles long for this tree alone. He thought that the
principal locality for the white pine that came down the Penobscot
now was at the head of the East Branch and the Allegash, about Webster
Stream and Eagle and Chamberlain lakes. Much timber has been stolen
from the public lands. (Pray, what kind of forest-warden is the Public
itself?) I heard of one man who, having discovered some particularly
fine trees just within the boundaries of the public lands, and not
daring to employ an accomplice, cut them down, and by means of block
and tackle, without cattle, tumbled them into a stream, and so
succeeded in getting off with them without the least assistance.
Surely, stealing pine trees in this way is not so mean as robbing
hen-roosts.

We reached Monson that night, and the next day rode to Bangor, all the
way in the rain again, varying our route a little. Some of the taverns
on this road, which were particularly dirty, were plainly in a
transition state from the camp to the house.

       *       *       *       *       *

The next forenoon we went to Oldtown. One slender old Indian on the
Oldtown shore, who recognized my companion, was full of mirth and
gestures, like a Frenchman. A Catholic priest crossed to the island in
the same batteau with us. The Indian houses are framed, mostly of one
story, and in rows one behind another, at the south end of the island,
with a few scattered ones. I counted about forty, not including the
church and what my companion called the council-house. The last, which
I suppose is their town-house, was regularly framed and shingled like
the rest. There were several of two stories, quite neat, with front
yards inclosed, and one at least had green blinds. Here and there
were moose-hides stretched and drying about them. There were no
cart-paths, nor tracks of horses, but footpaths; very little land
cultivated, but an abundance of weeds, indigenous and naturalized;
more introduced weeds than useful vegetables, as the Indian is said to
cultivate the vices rather than the virtues of the white man. Yet this
village was cleaner than I expected, far cleaner than such Irish
villages as I have seen. The children were not particularly ragged nor
dirty. The little boys met us with bow in hand and arrow on string,
and cried, "Put up a cent." Verily, the Indian has but a feeble hold
on his bow now; but the curiosity of the white man is insatiable, and
from the first he has been eager to witness this forest
accomplishment. That elastic piece of wood with its feathered dart, so
sure to be unstrung by contact with civilization, will serve for the
type, the coat-of-arms of the savage. Alas for the Hunter Race! the
white man has driven off their game, and substituted a cent in its
place. I saw an Indian woman washing at the water's edge. She stood on
a rock, and, after dipping the clothes in the stream, laid them on the
rock, and beat them with a short club. In the graveyard, which was
crowded with graves, and overrun with weeds, I noticed an inscription
in Indian, painted on a wooden grave-board. There was a large wooden
cross on the island.

Since my companion knew him, we called on Governor Neptune, who lived
in a little "ten-footer," one of the humblest of them all.
Personalities are allowable in speaking of public men, therefore I
will give the particulars of our visit. He was abed. When we entered
the room, which was one half of the house, he was sitting on the side
of the bed. There was a clock hanging in one corner. He had on a black
frock coat, and black pants, much worn, white cotton shirt, socks, a
red silk handkerchief about his neck, and a straw hat. His black hair
was only slightly grayed. He had very broad cheeks, and his features
were decidedly and refreshingly different from those of any of the
upstart Native American party whom I have seen. He was no darker than
many old white men. He told me that he was eighty-nine; but he was
going a-moose-hunting that fall, as he had been the previous one.
Probably his companions did the hunting. We saw various squaws dodging
about. One sat on the bed by his side and helped him out with his
stories. They were remarkably corpulent, with smooth, round faces,
apparently full of good-humor. Certainly our much-abused climate had
not dried up their adipose substance. While we were there,--for we
stayed a good while,--one went over to Oldtown, returned and cut out a
dress, which she had bought, on another bed in the room. The Governor
said that "he could remember when the moose were much larger; that
they did not use to be in the woods, but came out of the water, as all
deer did. Moose was whale once. Away down Merrimack way, a whale came
ashore in a shallow bay. Sea went out and left him, and he came up on
land a moose. What made them know he was a whale was, that at first,
before he began to run in bushes, he had no bowels inside, but"--and
then the squaw who sat on the bed by his side, as the Governor's aid,
and had been putting in a word now and then and confirming the story,
asked me what we called that soft thing we find along the seashore.
"Jelly-fish," I suggested. "Yes," said he, "no bowels, but
jelly-fish."

There may be some truth in what he said about the moose growing larger
formerly; for the quaint John Josselyn, a physician who spent many
years in this very district of Maine in the seventeenth century, says
that the tips of their horns "are sometimes found to be two fathoms
asunder,"--and he is particular to tell us that a fathom is six
feet,--"and [they are] in height, from the toe of the fore foot to the
pitch of the shoulder, twelve foot, both which hath been taken by some
of my sceptique readers to be monstrous lies;" and he adds, "There are
certain transcendentia in every creature, which are the indelible
character of God, and which discover God." This is a greater dilemma
to be caught in than is presented by the cranium of the young Bechuana
ox, apparently another of the _transcendentia_, in the collection of
Thomas Steel, Upper Brook Street, London, whose "entire length of
horn, from tip to tip, along the curve, is 13 ft. 5 in.; distance
(straight) between the tips of the horns, 8 ft. 8½ in." However, the
size both of the moose and the cougar, as I have found, is generally
rather underrated than overrated, and I should be inclined to add to
the popular estimate a part of what I subtracted from Josselyn's.

But we talked mostly with the Governor's son-in-law, a very sensible
Indian; and the Governor, being so old and deaf, permitted himself to
be ignored, while we asked questions about him. The former said that
there were two political parties among them,--one in favor of schools,
and the other opposed to them, or rather they did not wish to resist
the priest, who was opposed to them. The first had just prevailed at
the election and sent their man to the legislature. Neptune and
Aitteon and he himself were in favor of schools. He said, "If Indians
got learning, they would keep their money." When we asked where Joe's
father, Aitteon, was, he knew that he must be at Lincoln, though he
was about going a-moose-hunting, for a messenger had just gone to him
there to get his signature to some papers. I asked Neptune if they had
any of the old breed of dogs yet. He answered, "Yes." "But that," said
I, pointing to one that had just come in, "is a Yankee dog." He
assented. I said that he did not look like a good one. "Oh, yes!" he
said, and he told, with much gusto, how, the year before, he had
caught and held by the throat a wolf. A very small black puppy rushed
into the room and made at the Governor's feet, as he sat in his
stockings with his legs dangling from the bedside. The Governor rubbed
his hands and dared him to come on, entering into the sport with
spirit. Nothing more that was significant transpired, to my knowledge,
during this interview. This was the first time that I ever called on a
governor, but, as I did not ask for an office, I can speak of it with
the more freedom.

An Indian who was making canoes behind a house, looking up pleasantly
from his work,--for he knew my companion,--said that his name was Old
John Pennyweight. I had heard of him long before, and I inquired after
one of his contemporaries, Joe Four-pence-ha'penny; but alas! he no
longer circulates. I made a faithful study of canoe-building, and I
thought that I should like to serve an apprenticeship at that trade
for one season, going into the woods for bark with my "boss," making
the canoe there, and returning in it at last.

While the batteau was coming over to take us off, I picked up some
fragments of arrowheads on the shore, and one broken stone chisel,
which were greater novelties to the Indians than to me. After this, on
Old Fort Hill, at the bend of the Penobscot, three miles above Bangor,
looking for the site of an Indian town which some think stood
thereabouts, I found more arrowheads, and two little dark and
crumbling fragments of Indian earthenware, in the ashes of their
fires. The Indians on the island appeared to live quite happily and to
be well treated by the inhabitants of Oldtown.

We visited Veazie's mills, just below the island, where were sixteen
sets of saws,--some gang saws, sixteen in a gang, not to mention
circular saws. On one side, they were hauling the logs up an inclined
plane by water-power; on the other, passing out the boards, planks,
and sawed timber, and forming them into rafts. The trees were
literally drawn and quartered there. In forming the rafts, they use
the lower three feet of hard-wood saplings, which have a crooked and
knobbed butt-end, for bolts, passing them up through holes bored in
the corners and sides of the rafts, and keying them. In another
apartment they were making fence-slats, such as stand all over New
England, out of odds and ends; and it may be that I saw where the
picket-fence behind which I dwell at home came from. I was surprised
to find a boy collecting the long edgings of boards as fast as cut
off, and thrusting them down a hopper, where they were ground up
beneath the mill, that they might be out of the way; otherwise they
accumulate in vast piles by the side of the building, increasing the
danger from fire, or, floating off, they obstruct the river. This was
not only a sawmill, but a gristmill, then. The inhabitants of Oldtown,
Stillwater, and Bangor cannot suffer for want of kindling stuff,
surely. Some get their living exclusively by picking up the driftwood
and selling it by the cord in the winter. In one place I saw where an
Irishman, who keeps a team and a man for the purpose, had covered the
shore for a long distance with regular piles, and I was told that he
had sold twelve hundred dollars' worth in a year. Another, who lived
by the shore, told me that he got all the material of his outbuildings
and fences from the river; and in that neighborhood I perceived that
this refuse wood was frequently used instead of sand to fill hollows
with, being apparently cheaper than dirt.

I got my first clear view of Ktaadn, on this excursion, from a hill
about two miles northwest of Bangor, whither I went for this purpose.
After this I was ready to return to Massachusetts.

       *       *       *       *       *

Humboldt has written an interesting chapter on the primitive forest,
but no one has yet described for me the difference between that wild
forest which once occupied our oldest townships, and the tame one
which I find there to-day. It is a difference which would be worth
attending to. The civilized man not only clears the land permanently
to a great extent, and cultivates open fields, but he tames and
cultivates to a certain extent the forest itself. By his mere
presence, almost, he changes the nature of the trees as no other
creature does. The sun and air, and perhaps fire, have been
introduced, and grain raised where it stands. It has lost its wild,
damp, and shaggy look; the countless fallen and decaying trees are
gone, and consequently that thick coat of moss which lived on them is
gone too. The earth is comparatively bare and smooth and dry. The most
primitive places left with us are the swamps, where the spruce still
grows shaggy with usnea. The surface of the ground in the Maine woods
is everywhere spongy and saturated with moisture. I noticed that the
plants which cover the forest floor there are such as are commonly
confined to swamps with us,--the _Clintonia borealis_, orchises,
creeping snowberry, and others; and the prevailing aster there is the
_Aster acuminatus_, which with us grows in damp and shady woods. The
asters _cordifolius_ and _macrophyllus_ also are common, asters of
little or no color, and sometimes without petals. I saw no soft,
spreading, second-growth white pines, with smooth bark, acknowledging
the presence of the woodchopper, but even the young white pines were
all tall and slender rough-barked trees.

Those Maine woods differ essentially from ours. There you are never
reminded that the wilderness which you are threading is, after all,
some villager's familiar wood-lot, some widow's thirds, from which her
ancestors have sledded fuel for generations, minutely described in
some old deed which is recorded, of which the owner has got a plan,
too, and old bound-marks may be found every forty rods, if you will
search. 'Tis true, the map may inform you that you stand on land
granted by the State to some academy, or on Bingham's purchase; but
these names do not impose on you, for you see nothing to remind you of
the academy or of Bingham. What were the "forests" of England to
these? One writer relates of the Isle of Wight, that in Charles the
Second's time "there were woods in the island so complete and
extensive, that it is said a squirrel might have traveled in several
parts many leagues together on the top of the trees." If it were not
for the rivers (and he might go round their heads), a squirrel could
here travel thus the whole breadth of the country.

We have as yet had no adequate account of a primitive pine forest. I
have noticed that in a physical atlas lately published in
Massachusetts, and used in our schools, the "wood land" of North
America is limited almost solely to the valleys of the Ohio and some
of the Great Lakes, and the great pine forests of the globe are not
represented. In our vicinity, for instance, New Brunswick and Maine
are exhibited as bare as Greenland. It may be that the children of
Greenville, at the foot of Moosehead Lake, who surely are not likely
to be scared by an owl, are referred to the valley of the Ohio to get
an idea of a forest; but they would not know what to do with their
moose, bear, caribou, beaver, etc., there. Shall we leave it to an
Englishman to inform us, that "in North America, both in the United
States and Canada, are the most extensive pine forests in the world"?
The greater part of New Brunswick, the northern half of Maine, and
adjacent parts of Canada, not to mention the northeastern part of New
York and other tracts farther off, are still covered with an almost
unbroken pine forest.

But Maine, perhaps, will soon be where Massachusetts is. A good part
of her territory is already as bare and commonplace as much of our
neighborhood, and her villages generally are not so well shaded as
ours. We seem to think that the earth must go through the ordeal of
sheep-pasturage before it is habitable by man. Consider Nahant, the
resort of all the fashion of Boston,--which peninsula I saw but
indistinctly in the twilight, when I steamed by it, and thought that
it was unchanged since the discovery. John Smith described it in 1614
as "the Mattahunts, two pleasant isles of groves, gardens, and
cornfields;" and others tell us that it was once well wooded, and even
furnished timber to build the wharves of Boston. Now it is difficult
to make a tree grow there, and the visitor comes away with a vision of
Mr. Tudor's ugly fences, a rod high, designed to protect a few pear
shrubs. And what are we coming to in our Middlesex towns? A bald,
staring town-house, or meeting-house, and a bare liberty-pole, as
leafless as it is fruitless, for all I can see. We shall be obliged to
import the timber for the last, hereafter, or splice such sticks as we
have. And our ideas of liberty are equally mean with these. The very
willow-rows lopped every three years for fuel or powder, and every
sizable pine and oak, or other forest tree, cut down within the memory
of man! As if individual speculators were to be allowed to export the
clouds out of the sky, or the stars out of the firmament, one by one.
We shall be reduced to gnaw the very crust of the earth for
nutriment.

They have even descended to smaller game. They have lately, as I hear,
invented a machine for chopping up huckleberry bushes fine, and so
converting them into fuel!--bushes which, for fruit alone, are worth
all the pear trees in the country many times over. (I can give you a
list of the three best kinds, if you want it.) At this rate, we shall
all be obliged to let our beards grow at least, if only to hide the
nakedness of the land and make a sylvan appearance. The farmer
sometimes talks of "brushing up," simply as if bare ground looked
better than clothed ground, than that which wears its natural
vesture,--as if the wild hedges, which, perhaps, are more to his
children than his whole farm beside, were dirt. I know of one who
deserves to be called the Tree-hater, and, perhaps, to leave this for
a new patronymic to his children. You would think that he had been
warned by an oracle that he would be killed by the fall of a tree, and
so was resolved to anticipate them. The journalists think that they
cannot say too much in favor of such "improvements" in husbandry; it
is a safe theme, like piety; but as for the beauty of one of these
"model farms," I would as lief see a patent churn and a man turning
it. They are, commonly, places merely where somebody is making money,
it may be counterfeiting. The virtue of making two blades of grass
grow where only one grew before does not begin to be superhuman.

Nevertheless, it was a relief to get back to our smooth but still
varied landscape. For a permanent residence, it seemed to me that
there could be no comparison between this and the wilderness,
necessary as the latter is for a resource and a background, the raw
material of all our civilization. The wilderness is simple, almost to
barrenness. The partially cultivated country it is which chiefly has
inspired, and will continue to inspire, the strains of poets, such as
compose the mass of any literature. Our woods are sylvan, and their
inhabitants woodmen and rustics; that is _selvaggia_, and the
inhabitants are _salvages_. A civilized man, using the word in the
ordinary sense, with his ideas and associations, must at length pine
there, like a cultivated plant, which clasps its fibres about a crude
and undissolved mass of peat. At the extreme north, the voyagers are
obliged to dance and act plays for employment. Perhaps our own woods
and fields,--in the best wooded towns, where we need not quarrel about
the huckleberries,--with the primitive swamps scattered here and there
in their midst, but not prevailing over them, are the perfection of
parks and groves, gardens, arbors, paths, vistas, and landscapes. They
are the natural consequence of what art and refinement we as a people
have,--the common which each village possesses, its true paradise, in
comparison with which all elaborately and willfully wealth-constructed
parks and gardens are paltry imitations. Or, I would rather say, such
_were_ our groves twenty years ago. The poet's, commonly, is not a
logger's path, but a woodman's. The logger and pioneer have preceded
him, like John the Baptist; eaten the wild honey, it may be, but the
locusts also; banished decaying wood and the spongy mosses which feed
on it, and built hearths and humanized Nature for him.

But there are spirits of a yet more liberal culture, to whom no
simplicity is barren. There are not only stately pines, but fragile
flowers, like the orchises, commonly described as too delicate for
cultivation, which derive their nutriment from the crudest mass of
peat. These remind us, that, not only for strength, but for beauty,
the poet must, from time to time, travel the logger's path and the
Indian's trail, to drink at some new and more bracing fountain of the
Muses, far in the recesses of the wilderness.

The kings of England formerly had their forests "to hold the king's
game," for sport or food, sometimes destroying villages to create or
extend them; and I think that they were impelled by a true instinct.
Why should not we, who have renounced the king's authority, have our
national preserves, where no villages need be destroyed, in which the
bear and panther, and some even of the hunter race, may still exist,
and not be "civilized off the face of the earth,"--our forests, not to
hold the king's game merely, but to hold and preserve the king himself
also, the lord of creation,--not for idle sport or food, but for
inspiration and our own true recreation? or shall we, like the
villains, grub them all up, poaching on our own national domains?




THE ALLEGASH AND EAST BRANCH


I started on my third excursion to the Maine woods Monday, July 20,
1857, with one companion, arriving at Bangor the next day at noon. We
had hardly left the steamer, when we passed Molly Molasses in the
street. As long as she lives, the Penobscots may be considered extant
as a tribe. The succeeding morning, a relative of mine, who is well
acquainted with the Penobscot Indians, and who had been my companion
in my two previous excursions into the Maine woods, took me in his
wagon to Oldtown, to assist me in obtaining an Indian for this
expedition. We were ferried across to the Indian Island in a batteau.
The ferryman's boy had got the key to it, but the father, who was a
blacksmith, after a little hesitation cut the chain with a cold-chisel
on the rock. He told me that the Indians were nearly all gone to the
seaboard and to Massachusetts, partly on account of the smallpox--of
which they are very much afraid--having broken out in Oldtown, and it
was doubtful whether we should find a suitable one at home. The old
chief Neptune, however, was there still. The first man we saw on the
island was an Indian named Joseph Polis, whom my relative had known
from a boy, and now addressed familiarly as "Joe." He was dressing a
deer-skin in his yard. The skin was spread over a slanting log, and he
was scraping it with a stick held by both hands. He was stoutly built,
perhaps a little above the middle height, with a broad face, and, as
others said, perfect Indian features and complexion. His house was a
two-story white one, with blinds, the best-looking that I noticed
there, and as good as an average one on a New England village street.
It was surrounded by a garden and fruit-trees, single cornstalks
standing thinly amid the beans. We asked him if he knew any good
Indian who would like to go into the woods with us, that is, to the
Allegash Lakes, by way of Moosehead, and return by the East Branch of
the Penobscot, or vary from this as we pleased. To which he answered,
out of that strange remoteness in which the Indian ever dwells to the
white man, "Me like to go myself; me wants to get some moose;" and
kept on scraping the skin. His brother had been into the woods with my
relative only a year or two before, and the Indian now inquired what
the latter had done to him, that he did not come back, for he had not
seen nor heard from him since.

At length we got round to the more interesting topic again. The
ferryman had told us that all the best Indians were gone except Polis,
who was one of the aristocracy. He to be sure would be the best man we
could have, but if he went at all would want a great price; so we did
not expect to get him. Polis asked at first two dollars a day, but
agreed to go for a dollar and a half, and fifty cents a week for his
canoe. He would come to Bangor with his canoe by the seven o'clock
train that evening,--we might depend on him. We thought ourselves
lucky to secure the services of this man, who was known to be
particularly steady and trustworthy.

I spent the afternoon with my companion, who had remained in Bangor,
in preparing for our expedition, purchasing provisions, hard-bread,
pork, coffee, sugar, etc., and some india-rubber clothing.

We had at first thought of exploring the St. John from its source to
its mouth, or else to go up the Penobscot by its East Branch to the
lakes of the St. John, and return by way of Chesuncook and Moosehead.
We had finally inclined to the last route, only reversing the order of
it, going by way of Moosehead, and returning by the Penobscot,
otherwise it would have been all the way upstream and taken twice as
long.

At evening the Indian arrived in the cars, and I led the way while he
followed me three quarters of a mile to my friend's house, with the
canoe on his head. I did not know the exact route myself, but steered
by the lay of the land, as I do in Boston, and I tried to enter into
conversation with him, but as he was puffing under the weight of his
canoe, not having the usual apparatus for carrying it, but, above all,
was an Indian, I might as well have been thumping on the bottom of his
birch the while. In answer to the various observations which I made by
way of breaking the ice, he only grunted vaguely from beneath his
canoe once or twice, so that I knew he was there.

Early the next morning (July 23) the stage called for us, the Indian
having breakfasted with us, and already placed the baggage in the
canoe to see how it would go. My companion and I had each a large
knapsack as full as it would hold, and we had two large india-rubber
bags which held our provision and utensils. As for the Indian, all the
baggage he had, beside his axe and gun, was a blanket, which he
brought loose in his hand. However, he had laid in a store of tobacco
and a new pipe for the excursion. The canoe was securely lashed
diagonally across the top of the stage, with bits of carpet tucked
under the edge to prevent its chafing. The very accommodating driver
appeared as much accustomed to carrying canoes in this way as
bandboxes.

At the Bangor House we took in four men bound on a hunting excursion,
one of the men going as cook. They had a dog, a middling-sized
brindled cur, which ran by the side of the stage, his master showing
his head and whistling from time to time; but after we had gone about
three miles the dog was suddenly missing, and two of the party went
back for him, while the stage, which was full of passengers, waited. I
suggested that he had taken the back track for the Bangor House. At
length one man came back, while the other kept on. This whole party of
hunters declared their intention to stop till the dog was found; but
the very obliging driver was ready to wait a spell longer. He was
evidently unwilling to lose so many passengers, who would have taken a
private conveyance, or perhaps the other line of stages, the next day.
Such progress did we make, with a journey of over sixty miles to be
accomplished that day, and a rain-storm just setting in. We discussed
the subject of dogs and their instincts till it was threadbare, while
we waited there, and the scenery of the suburbs of Bangor is still
distinctly impressed on my memory. After full half an hour the man
returned, leading the dog by a rope. He had overtaken him just as he
was entering the Bangor House. He was then tied on the top of the
stage, but being wet and cold, several times in the course of the
journey he jumped off, and I saw him dangling by his neck. This dog
was depended on to stop bears with. He had already stopped one
somewhere in New Hampshire, and I can testify that he stopped a stage
in Maine. This party of four probably paid nothing for the dog's ride,
nor for his run, while our party of three paid two dollars--and were
charged four--for the light canoe which lay still on the top.

It soon began to rain, and grew more and more stormy as the day
advanced. This was the third time that I had passed over this route,
and it rained steadily each time all day. We accordingly saw but
little of the country. The stage was crowded all the way, and I
attended the more to my fellow-travelers. If you had looked inside
this coach you would have thought that we were prepared to run the
gauntlet of a band of robbers, for there were four or five guns on the
front seat, the Indian's included, and one or two on the back one,
each man holding his darling in his arms. One had a gun which carried
twelve to a pound. It appeared that this party of hunters was going
our way, but much farther,--down the Allegash and St. John, and thence
up some other stream, and across to the Restigouche and the Bay of
Chaleur, to be gone six weeks. They had canoes, axes, and supplies
deposited some distance along the route. They carried flour, and were
to have new bread made every day. Their leader was a handsome man
about thirty years old, of good height, but not apparently robust, of
gentlemanly address and faultless toilet; such a one as you might
expect to meet on Broadway. In fact, in the popular sense of the word,
he was the most "gentlemanly" appearing man in the stage, or that we
saw on the road. He had a fair white complexion, as if he had always
lived in the shade, and an intellectual face, and with his quiet
manners might have passed for a divinity student who had seen
something of the world. I was surprised to find, on talking with him
in the course of the day's journey, that he was a hunter at all,--for
his gun was not much exposed,--and yet more to find that he was
probably the chief white hunter of Maine, and was known all along the
road. He had also hunted in some of the States farther south and west.
I afterwards heard him spoken of as one who could endure a great deal
of exposure and fatigue without showing the effect of it; and he could
not only use guns, but make them, being himself a gunsmith. In the
spring, he had saved a stage-driver and two passengers from drowning
in the backwater of the Piscataquis in Foxcroft on this road, having
swum ashore in the freezing water and made a raft and got them
off,--though the horses were drowned,--at great risk to himself, while
the only other man who could swim withdrew to the nearest house to
prevent freezing. He could now ride over this road for nothing. He
knew our man, and remarked that we had a good Indian there, a good
hunter; adding that he was said to be worth $6000. The Indian also
knew him, and said to me, "the great hunter."

The former told me that he practiced a kind of still-hunting, new or
uncommon in those parts; that the caribou, for instance, fed round and
round the same meadow, returning on the same path, and he lay in wait
for them.

The Indian sat on the front seat, saying nothing to anybody, with a
stolid expression of face, as if barely awake to what was going on.
Again I was struck by the peculiar vagueness of his replies when
addressed in the stage, or at the taverns. He really never said
anything on such occasions. He was merely stirred up, like a wild
beast, and passively muttered some insignificant response. His answer,
in such cases, was never the consequence of a positive mental energy,
but vague as a puff of smoke, suggesting no _responsibility_, and if
you considered it, you would find that you had got nothing out of him.
This was instead of the conventional palaver and smartness of the
white man, and equally profitable. Most get no more than this out of
the Indian, and pronounce him stolid accordingly. I was surprised to
see what a foolish and impertinent style a Maine man, a passenger,
used in addressing him, as if he were a child, which only made his
eyes glisten a little. A tipsy Canadian asked him at a tavern, in a
drawling tone, if he smoked, to which he answered with an indefinite
"Yes." "Won't you lend me your pipe a little while?" asked the other.
He replied, looking straight by the man's head, with a face singularly
vacant to all neighboring interests, "Me got no pipe;" yet I had seen
him put a new one, with a supply of tobacco, into his pocket that
morning.

Our little canoe, so neat and strong, drew a favorable criticism from
all the wiseacres among the tavern loungers along the road. By the
roadside, close to the wheels, I noticed a splendid great purple
fringed orchis with a spike as big as an epilobium, which I would fain
have stopped the stage to pluck, but as this had never been known to
stop a bear, like the cur on the stage, the driver would probably have
thought it a waste of time.

When we reached the lake, about half past eight in the evening, it was
still steadily raining, and harder than before; and, in that fresh,
cool atmosphere, the hylodes were peeping and the toads ringing about
the lake universally, as in the spring with us. It was as if the
season had revolved backward two or three months, or I had arrived at
the abode of perpetual spring.

We had expected to go upon the lake at once, and, after paddling up
two or three miles, to camp on one of its islands; but on account of
the steady and increasing rain, we decided to go to one of the taverns
for the night, though, for my own part, I should have preferred to
camp out.

About four o'clock the next morning (July 24), though it was quite
cloudy, accompanied by the landlord to the water's edge, in the
twilight, we launched our canoe from a rock on the Moosehead Lake.
When I was there four years before, we had a rather small canoe for
three persons, and I had thought that this time I would get a larger
one, but the present one was even smaller than that. It was 18¼ feet
long by 2 feet 6½ inches wide in the middle, and one foot deep within,
so I found by measurement, and I judged that it would weigh not far
from eighty pounds. The Indian had recently made it himself, and its
smallness was partly compensated for by its newness, as well as
stanchness and solidity, it being made of very thick bark and ribs.
Our baggage weighed about 166 pounds, so that the canoe carried about
600 pounds in all, or the weight of four men. The principal part of
the baggage was, as usual, placed in the middle of the broadest part,
while we stowed ourselves in the chinks and crannies that were left
before and behind it, where there was no room to extend our legs, the
loose articles being tucked into the ends. The canoe was thus as
closely packed as a market-basket, and might possibly have been upset
without spilling any of its contents. The Indian sat on a cross-bar in
the stern, but we flat on the bottom, with a splint or chip behind our
backs, to protect them from the cross-bar, and one of us commonly
paddled with the Indian. He foresaw that we should not want a pole
till we reached the Umbazookskus River, it being either deadwater or
down-stream so far, and he was prepared to make a sail of his blanket
in the bows if the wind should be fair; but we never used it.

It had rained more or less the four previous days, so that we thought
we might count on some fair weather. The wind was at first
southwesterly.

Paddling along the eastern side of the lake in the still of the
morning, we soon saw a few sheldrakes, which the Indian called
_Shecorways_, and some peetweets, _Naramekechus_, on the rocky shore;
we also saw and heard loons, _Medawisla_, which he said was a sign of
wind. It was inspiriting to hear the regular dip of the paddles, as if
they were our fins or flippers, and to realize that we were at length
fairly embarked. We who had felt strangely as stage-passengers and
tavern-lodgers were suddenly naturalized there and presented with the
freedom of the lakes and the woods. Having passed the small rocky
isles within two or three miles of the foot of the lake, we had a
short consultation respecting our course, and inclined to the western
shore for the sake of its lee; for otherwise, if the wind should rise,
it would be impossible for us to reach Mount Kineo, which is about
midway up the lake on the east side, but at its narrowest part, where
probably we could recross if we took the western side. The wind is the
chief obstacle to crossing the lakes, especially in so small a canoe.
The Indian remarked several times that he did not like to cross the
lakes "in littlum canoe," but nevertheless, "just as we say, it made
no odds to him." He sometimes took a straight course up the middle of
the lake between Sugar and Deer islands, when there was no wind.

Measured on the map, Moosehead Lake is twelve miles wide at the widest
place, and thirty miles long in a direct line, but longer as it lies.
The captain of the steamer called it thirty-eight miles as he steered.
We should probably go about forty. The Indian said that it was called
"_Mspame_, because large water." Squaw Mountain rose darkly on our
left, near the outlet of the Kennebec, and what the Indian called
Spencer Bay Mountain, on the east, and already we saw Mount Kineo
before us in the north.

Paddling near the shore, we frequently heard the _pe-pe_ of the
olive-sided flycatcher, also the wood pewee, and the kingfisher, thus
early in the morning. The Indian reminding us that he could not work
without eating, we stopped to breakfast on the main shore, southwest
of Deer Island, at a spot where the _Mimulus ringens_ grew abundantly.
We took out our bags, and the Indian made a fire under a very large
bleached log, using white pine bark from a stump, though he said that
hemlock was better, and kindling with canoe birch bark. Our table was
a large piece of freshly peeled birch bark, laid wrong side up, and
our breakfast consisted of hard-bread, fried pork, and strong coffee,
well sweetened, in which we did not miss the milk.

While we were getting breakfast, a brood of twelve black dippers, half
grown, came paddling by within three or four rods, not at all alarmed;
and they loitered about as long as we stayed, now huddled close
together, within a circle of eighteen inches in diameter, now moving
off in a long line, very cunningly. Yet they bore a certain proportion
to the great Moosehead Lake on whose bosom they floated, and I felt as
if they were under its protection.

Looking northward from this place it appeared as if we were entering a
large bay, and we did not know whether we should be obliged to diverge
from our course and keep outside a point which we saw, or should find
a passage between this and the mainland. I consulted my map and used
my glass, and the Indian did the same, but we could not find our place
exactly on the map, nor could we detect any break in the shore. When I
asked the Indian the way, he answered, "I don't know," which I thought
remarkable, since he had said that he was familiar with the lake; but
it appeared that he had never been up this side. It was misty dog-day
weather, and we had already penetrated a smaller bay of the same kind,
and knocked the bottom out of it, though we had been obliged to pass
over a small bar, between an island and the shore, where there was
but just breadth and depth enough to float the canoe, and the
Indian had observed, "Very easy makum bridge here," but now it seemed
that, if we held on, we should be fairly embayed. Presently, however,
though we had not stirred, the mist lifted somewhat, and revealed a
break in the shore northward, showing that the point was a portion of
Deer Island, and that our course lay westward of it. Where it had
seemed a continuous shore even through a glass, one portion was now
seen by the naked eye to be much more distant than the other which
overlapped it, merely by the greater thickness of the mist which still
rested on it, while the nearer or island portion was comparatively
bare and green. The line of separation was very distinct, and the
Indian immediately remarked, "I guess you and I go there,--I guess
there's room for my canoe there." This was his common expression
instead of saying "we." He never addressed us by our names, though
curious to know how they were spelled and what they meant, while we
called him Polis. He had already guessed very accurately at our ages,
and said that he was forty-eight.

  [Illustration: _Squaw Mountain, Moosehead Lake_]

After breakfast I emptied the melted pork that was left into the lake,
making what sailors call a "slick," and watching to see how much it
spread over and smoothed the agitated surface. The Indian looked at it
a moment and said, "That make hard paddlum thro'; hold 'em canoe. So
say old times."

We hastily reloaded, putting the dishes loose in the bows, that they
might be at hand when wanted, and set out again. The western shore,
near which we paddled along, rose gently to a considerable height, and
was everywhere densely covered with the forest, in which was a large
proportion of hard wood to enliven and relieve the fir and spruce.

The Indian said that the usnea lichen which we saw hanging from the
trees was called _chorchorque_. We asked him the names of several
small birds which we heard this morning. The wood thrush, which was
quite common, and whose note he imitated, he said was called
_Adelungquamooktum_; but sometimes he could not tell the name of some
small bird which I heard and knew, but he said, "I tell all the birds
about here,--this country; can't tell littlum noise, but I see 'em,
then I can tell."

I observed that I should like to go to school to him to learn his
language, living on the Indian island the while; could not that be
done? "Oh, yer," he replied, "good many do so." I asked how long he
thought it would take. He said one week. I told him that in this
voyage I would tell him all I knew, and he should tell me all he knew,
to which he readily agreed.

The birds sang quite as in our woods,--the red-eye, redstart, veery,
wood pewee, etc., but we saw no bluebirds in all our journey, and
several told me in Bangor that they had not the bluebird there. Mount
Kineo, which was generally visible, though occasionally concealed by
islands or the mainland in front, had a level bar of cloud concealing
its summit, and all the mountain-tops about the lake were cut off at
the same height. Ducks of various kinds--sheldrake, summer ducks,
etc.--were quite common, and ran over the water before us as fast as a
horse trots. Thus they were soon out of sight.

The Indian asked the meaning of _reality_, as near as I could make out
the word, which he said one of us had used; also of "_interrent_,"
that is, intelligent. I observed that he could rarely sound the letter
r, but used l, as also r for l sometimes; as _load_ for road,
_pickelel_ for pickerel, _Soogle_ Island for Sugar Island, _lock_ for
rock, etc. Yet he trilled the _r_ pretty well after me.

He generally added the syllable _um_ to his words when he could,--as
paddl_um_, etc. I have once heard a Chippeway lecture, who made his
audience laugh unintentionally by putting _m_ after the word _too_,
which word he brought in continually and unnecessarily, accenting and
prolonging this sound into _m-ah_ sonorously, as if it were necessary
to bring in so much of his vernacular as a relief to his organs, a
compensation for twisting his jaws about, and putting his tongue into
every corner of his mouth, as he complained that he was obliged to do
when he spoke English. There was so much of the Indian accent
resounding through his English, so much of the "bow-arrow tang" as my
neighbor calls it, and I have no doubt that word seemed to him the
best pronounced. It was a wild and refreshing sound, like that of the
wind among the pines, or the booming of the surf on the shore.

I asked him the meaning of the word _Musketicook_, the Indian name of
Concord River. He pronounced it _Muskéeticook_, emphasizing the second
syllable with a peculiar guttural sound, and said that it meant
"deadwater," which it is, and in this definition he agreed exactly
with the St. Francis Indian with whom I talked in 1853.

On a point on the mainland some miles southwest of Sand-bar Island,
where we landed to stretch our legs and look at the vegetation, going
inland a few steps, I discovered a fire still glowing beneath its
ashes, where somebody had breakfasted, and a bed of twigs prepared for
the following night. So I knew not only that they had just left, but
that they designed to return, and by the breadth of the bed that there
was more than one in the party. You might have gone within six feet of
these signs without seeing them. There grew the beaked hazel, the only
hazel which I saw on this journey, the diervilla, rue seven feet high,
which was very abundant on all the lake and river shores, and _Cornus
stolonifera_, or red osier, whose bark, the Indian said, was good to
smoke, and was called _maquoxigill_, "tobacco before white people came
to this country, Indian tobacco."

The Indian was always very careful in approaching the shore, lest he
should injure his canoe on the rocks, letting it swing round slowly
sidewise, and was still more particular that we should not step into
it on shore, nor till it floated free, and then should step gently
lest we should open its seams, or make a hole in the bottom. He said
that he would tell us when to jump.

Soon after leaving this point we passed the Kennebec, or outlet of the
lake, and heard the falls at the dam there, for even Moosehead Lake is
dammed. After passing Deer Island, we saw the little steamer from
Greenville, far east in the middle of the lake, and she appeared
nearly stationary. Sometimes we could hardly tell her from an island
which had a few trees on it. Here we were exposed to the wind from
over the whole breadth of the lake, and ran a little risk of being
swamped. While I had my eye fixed on the spot where a large fish had
leaped, we took in a gallon or two of water, which filled my lap; but
we soon reached the shore and took the canoe over the bar, at Sand-bar
Island, a few feet wide only, and so saved a considerable distance.
One landed first at a more sheltered place, and walking round caught
the canoe by the prow, to prevent it being injured against the shore.

Again we crossed a broad bay opposite the mouth of Moose River, before
reaching the narrow strait at Mount Kineo, made what the voyageurs
call a _traverse_, and found the water quite rough. A very little wind
on these broad lakes raises a sea which will swamp a canoe. Looking
off from the shore, the surface may appear to be very little agitated,
almost smooth, a mile distant, or if you see a few white crests they
appear nearly level with the rest of the lake; but when you get out so
far, you may find quite a sea running, and ere long, before you think
of it, a wave will gently creep up the side of the canoe and fill your
lap, like a monster deliberately covering you with its slime before it
swallows you, or it will strike the canoe violently, and break into
it. The same thing may happen when the wind rises suddenly, though it
were perfectly calm and smooth there a few minutes before; so that
nothing can save you, unless you can swim ashore, for it is impossible
to get into a canoe again when it is upset. Since you sit flat on the
bottom, though the danger should not be imminent, a little water is a
great inconvenience, not to mention the wetting of your provisions. We
rarely crossed even a bay directly, from point to point, when there
was wind, but made a slight curve corresponding somewhat to the shore,
that we might the sooner reach it if the wind increased.

When the wind is aft, and not too strong, the Indian makes a spritsail
of his blanket. He thus easily skims over the whole length of this
lake in a day.

The Indian paddled on one side, and one of us on the other, to keep
the canoe steady, and when he wanted to change hands he would say, "T'
other side." He asserted, in answer to our questions, that he had
never upset a canoe himself, though he may have been upset by others.

Think of our little eggshell of a canoe tossing across that great
lake, a mere black speck to the eagle soaring above it!

My companion trailed for trout as we paddled along, but the Indian
warning him that a big fish might upset us, for there are some very
large ones there, he agreed to pass the line quickly to him in the
stern if he had a bite. Besides trout, I heard of cusk, whitefish,
etc., as found in this lake.

While we were crossing this bay, where Mount Kineo rose dark before
us, within two or three miles, the Indian repeated the tradition
respecting this mountain's having anciently been a cow moose,--how a
mighty Indian hunter, whose name I forget, succeeded in killing this
queen of the moose tribe with great difficulty, while her calf was
killed somewhere among the islands in Penobscot Bay, and, to his eyes,
this mountain had still the form of the moose in a reclining posture,
its precipitous side presenting the outline of her head. He told this
at some length, though it did not amount to much, and with apparent
good faith, and asked us how we supposed the hunter could have killed
such a mighty moose as that,--how we could do it. Whereupon a
man-of-war to fire broadsides into her was suggested, etc. An Indian
tells such a story as if he thought it deserved to have a good deal
said about it, only he has not got it to say, and so he makes up for
the deficiency by a drawling tone, long-windedness, and a dumb wonder
which he hopes will be contagious.

We approached the land again through pretty rough water, and then
steered directly across the lake, at its narrowest part, to the
eastern side, and were soon partly under the lee of the mountain,
about a mile north of the Kineo House, having paddled about twenty
miles. It was now about noon.

We designed to stop there that afternoon and night, and spent half an
hour looking along the shore northward for a suitable place to camp.
We took out all our baggage at one place in vain, it being too rocky
and uneven, and while engaged in this search we made our first
acquaintance with the moose-fly. At length, half a mile farther north,
by going half a dozen rods into the dense spruce and fir wood on the
side of the mountain, almost as dark as a cellar, we found a place
sufficiently clear and level to lie down on, after cutting away a few
bushes. We required a space only seven feet by six for our bed, the
fire being four or five feet in front, though it made no odds how
rough the hearth was; but it was not always easy to find this in those
woods. The Indian first cleared a path to it from the shore with his
axe, and we then carried up all our baggage, pitched our tent, and
made our bed, in order to be ready for foul weather, which then
threatened us, and for the night. He gathered a large armful of fir
twigs, breaking them off, which he said were the best for our bed,
partly, I thought, because they were the largest and could be most
rapidly collected. It had been raining more or less for four or five
days, and the wood was even damper than usual, but he got dry bark for
the fire from the under side of a dead leaning hemlock, which, he
said, he could always do.

This noon his mind was occupied with a law question, and I referred
him to my companion, who was a lawyer. It appeared that he had been
buying land lately (I think it was a hundred acres), but there was
probably an incumbrance to it, somebody else claiming to have bought
some grass on it for this year. He wished to know to whom the grass
belonged, and was told that if the other man could prove that he
bought the grass before he, Polis, bought the land, the former could
take it, whether the latter knew it or not. To which he only answered,
"Strange!" He went over this several times, fairly sat down to it,
with his back to a tree, as if he meant to confine us to this topic
henceforth; but as he made no headway, only reached the jumping-off
place of his wonder at white men's institutions after each
explanation, we let the subject die.

He said that he had fifty acres of grass, potatoes, etc., somewhere
above Oldtown, besides some about his house; that he hired a good deal
of his work, hoeing, etc., and preferred white men to Indians, because
"they keep steady, and know how."

After dinner we returned southward along the shore, in the canoe, on
account of the difficulty of climbing over the rocks and fallen trees,
and began to ascend the mountain along the edge of the precipice. But
a smart shower coming up just then, the Indian crept under his canoe,
while we, being protected by our rubber coats, proceeded to botanize.
So we sent him back to the camp for shelter, agreeing that he should
come there for us with his canoe toward night. It had rained a little
in the forenoon, and we trusted that this would be the clearing-up
shower, which it proved; but our feet and legs were thoroughly wet by
the bushes. The clouds breaking away a little, we had a glorious wild
view, as we ascended, of the broad lake with its fluctuating surface
and numerous forest-clad islands, extending beyond our sight both
north and south, and the boundless forest undulating away from its
shores on every side, as densely packed as a rye-field, and enveloping
nameless mountains in succession; but above all, looking westward over
a large island, was visible a very distant part of the lake, though we
did not then suspect it to be Moosehead,--at first a mere broken white
line seen through the tops of the island trees, like hay-caps, but
spreading to a lake when we got higher. Beyond this we saw what
appears to be called Bald Mountain on the map, some twenty-five miles
distant, near the sources of the Penobscot. It was a perfect lake of
the woods. But this was only a transient gleam, for the rain was not
quite over.

Looking southward, the heavens were completely overcast, the mountains
capped with clouds, and the lake generally wore a dark and stormy
appearance, but from its surface just north of Sugar Island, six or
eight miles distant, there was reflected upward to us through the
misty air a bright blue tinge from the distant unseen sky of another
latitude beyond. They probably had a clear sky then at Greenville, the
south end of the lake. Standing on a mountain in the midst of a lake,
where would you look for the first sign of approaching fair weather?
Not into the heavens, it seems, but into the lake.

Again we mistook a little rocky islet seen through the "drisk," with
some taller bare trunks or stumps on it, for the steamer with its
smoke-pipes, but as it had not changed its position after half an
hour, we were undeceived. So much do the works of man resemble the
works of nature. A moose might mistake a steamer for a floating isle,
and not be scared till he heard its puffing or its whistle.

If I wished to see a mountain or other scenery under the most
favorable auspices, I would go to it in foul weather, so as to be
there when it cleared up; we are then in the most suitable mood, and
nature is most fresh and inspiring. There is no serenity so fair as
that which is just established in a tearful eye.

Jackson, in his Report on the Geology of Maine, in 1838, says of this
mountain: "Hornstone, which will answer for flints, occurs in various
parts of the State, where trap-rocks have acted upon silicious slate.
The largest mass of this stone known in the world is Mount Kineo, upon
Moosehead Lake, which appears to be entirely composed of it, and rises
seven hundred feet above the lake level. This variety of hornstone I
have seen in every part of New England in the form of Indian
arrowheads, hatchets, chisels, etc., which were probably obtained from
this mountain by the aboriginal inhabitants of the country." I have
myself found hundreds of arrowheads made of the same material. It is
generally slate-colored, with white specks, becoming a uniform white
where exposed to the light and air, and it breaks with a conchoidal
fracture, producing a ragged cutting edge. I noticed some conchoidal
hollows more than a foot in diameter. I picked up a small thin piece
which had so sharp an edge that I used it as a dull knife, and to see
what I could do, fairly cut off an aspen one inch thick with it, by
bending it and making many cuts; though I cut my fingers badly with
the back of it in the meanwhile.

  [Illustration: _Moosehead Lake, from Mount Kineo_]

From the summit of the precipice which forms the southern and eastern
sides of this mountain peninsula, and is its most remarkable feature,
being described as five or six hundred feet high, we looked, and
probably might have jumped, down to the water, or to the seemingly
dwarfish trees on the narrow neck of land which connects it with the
main. It is a dangerous place to try the steadiness of your nerves.
Hodge says that these cliffs descend "perpendicularly ninety feet"
below the surface of the water.

The plants which chiefly attracted our attention on this mountain were
the mountain cinquefoil (_Potentilla tridentata_), abundant and in
bloom still at the very base, by the waterside, though it is usually
confined to the summits of mountains in our latitude; very beautiful
harebells overhanging the precipice; bear-berry; the Canada blueberry
(_Vaccinium Canadense_), similar to the _V. Pennsylvanicum_, our
earliest one, but entire-leaved and with a downy stem and leaf (I have
not seen it in Massachusetts); _Diervilla trifida_; _Microstylis
ophioglossoides_, an orchidaceous plant new to us; wild holly
(_Nemopanthes Canadensis_); the great round-leaved orchis
(_Platanthera orbiculata_), not long in bloom; _Spiranthes cernua_, at
the top; bunchberry, reddening as we ascended, green at the base of
the mountain, red at the top; and the small fern _Woodsia ilvensis_,
growing in tufts, now in fruit. I have also received _Liparis
liliifolia_, or tway-blade, from this spot. Having explored the
wonders of the mountain, and the weather being now entirely cleared
up, we commenced the descent. We met the Indian, puffing and panting,
about one third of the way up, but thinking that he must be near the
top, and saying that it took his breath away. I thought that
superstition had something to do with his fatigue. Perhaps he believed
that he was climbing over the back of a tremendous moose. He said that
he had never ascended Kineo. On reaching the canoe we found that he
had caught a lake trout weighing about three pounds, at the depth of
twenty-five or thirty feet, while we were on the mountain.

When we got to the camp, the canoe was taken out and turned over, and
a log laid across it to prevent its being blown away. The Indian cut
some large logs of damp and rotten hard wood to smoulder and keep fire
through the night. The trout was fried for supper. Our tent was of
thin cotton cloth and quite small, forming with the ground a
triangular prism closed at the rear end, six feet long, seven wide,
and four high, so that we could barely sit up in the middle. It
required two forked stakes, a smooth ridge-pole, and a dozen or more
pins to pitch it. It kept off dew and wind, and an ordinary rain, and
answered our purpose well enough. We reclined within it till bedtime,
each with his baggage at his head, or else sat about the fire, having
hung our wet clothes on a pole before the fire for the night.

As we sat there, just before night, looking out through the dusky wood,
the Indian heard a noise which he said was made by a snake. He imitated
it at my request, making a low whistling note,--_pheet_--_pheet_,--two
or three times repeated, somewhat like the peep of the hylodes, but
not so loud. In answer to my inquiries, he said that he had never seen
them while making it, but going to the spot he finds the snake. This,
he said on another occasion, was a sign of rain. When I had selected
this place for our camp, he had remarked that there were snakes
there,--he saw them. "But they won't do any hurt," I said. "Oh, no,"
he answered, "just as you say; it makes no difference to me."

He lay on the right side of the tent, because, as he said, he was
partly deaf in one ear, and he wanted to lie with his good ear up. As
we lay there, he inquired if I ever heard "Indian sing." I replied
that I had not often, and asked him if he would not favor us with a
song. He readily assented, and, lying on his back, with his blanket
wrapped around him, he commenced a slow, somewhat nasal, yet musical
chant, in his own language, which probably was taught his tribe long
ago by the Catholic missionaries. He translated it to us, sentence by
sentence, afterward, wishing to see if we could remember it. It proved
to be a very simple religious exercise or hymn, the burden of which
was, that there was only one God who ruled all the world. This was
hammered (or sung) out very thin, so that some stanzas well-nigh meant
nothing at all, merely keeping up the idea. He then said that he would
sing us a Latin song; but we did not detect any Latin, only one or two
Greek words in it,--the rest may have been Latin with the Indian
pronunciation.

His singing carried me back to the period of the discovery of America,
to San Salvador and the Incas, when Europeans first encountered the
simple faith of the Indian. There was, indeed, a beautiful simplicity
about it; nothing of the dark and savage, only the mild and infantile.
The sentiments of humility and reverence chiefly were expressed.

It was a dense and damp spruce and fir wood in which we lay, and,
except for our fire, perfectly dark; and when I awoke in the night, I
either heard an owl from deeper in the forest behind us, or a loon
from a distance over the lake. Getting up some time after midnight to
collect the scattered brands together, while my companions were sound
asleep, I observed, partly in the fire, which had ceased to blaze, a
perfectly regular elliptical ring of light, about five inches in its
shortest diameter, six or seven in its longer, and from one eighth to
one quarter of an inch wide. It was fully as bright as the fire, but
not reddish or scarlet, like a coal, but a white and slumbering light,
like the glow-worm's. I could tell it from the fire only by its
whiteness. I saw at once that it must be phosphorescent wood, which I
had so often heard of, but never chanced to see. Putting my finger on
it, with a little hesitation, I found that it was a piece of dead
moose-wood (_Acer striatum_) which the Indian had cut off in a
slanting direction the evening before. Using my knife, I discovered
that the light proceeded from that portion of the sap-wood immediately
under the bark, and thus presented a regular ring at the end, which,
indeed, appeared raised above the level of the wood, and when I pared
off the bark and cut into the sap, it was all aglow along the log. I
was surprised to find the wood quite hard and apparently sound, though
probably decay had commenced in the sap, and I cut out some little
triangular chips, and, placing them in the hollow of my hand, carried
them into the camp, waked my companion, and showed them to him. They
lit up the inside of my hand, revealing the lines and wrinkles, and
appearing exactly like coals of fire raised to a white heat, and I saw
at once how, probably, the Indian jugglers had imposed on their people
and on travelers, pretending to hold coals of fire in their mouths.

I also noticed that part of a decayed stump within four or five feet
of the fire, an inch wide and six inches long, soft and shaking wood,
shone with equal brightness.

I neglected to ascertain whether our fire had anything to do with
this, but the previous day's rain and long-continued wet weather
undoubtedly had.

I was exceedingly interested by this phenomenon, and already felt paid
for my journey. It could hardly have thrilled me more if it had taken
the form of letters, or of the human face. If I had met with this
ring of light while groping in this forest alone, away from any fire,
I should have been still more surprised. I little thought that there
was such a light shining in the darkness of the wilderness for me.

The next day the Indian told me their name for this
light,--_artoosoqu'_--and on my inquiring concerning the
will-o'-the-wisp, and the like phenomena, he said that his "folks"
sometimes saw fires passing along at various heights, even as high as
the trees, and making a noise. I was prepared after this to hear of
the most startling and unimagined phenomena, witnessed by "his folks;"
they are abroad at all hours and seasons in scenes so unfrequented by
white men. Nature must have made a thousand revelations to them which
are still secrets to us.

I did not regret my not having seen this before, since I now saw it
under circumstances so favorable. I was in just the frame of mind to
see something wonderful, and this was a phenomenon adequate to my
circumstances and expectation, and it put me on the alert to see more
like it. I exulted like "a pagan suckled in a creed" that had never
been worn at all, but was bran-new, and adequate to the occasion. I
let science slide, and rejoiced in that light as if it had been a
fellow creature. I saw that it was excellent, and was very glad to
know that it was so cheap. A scientific _explanation_, as it is
called, would have been altogether out of place there. That is for
pale daylight. Science with its retorts would have put me to sleep; it
was the opportunity to be ignorant that I improved. It suggested to me
that there was something to be seen if one had eyes. It made a
believer of me more than before. I believed that the woods were not
tenantless, but choke-full of honest spirits as good as myself any
day,--not an empty chamber, in which chemistry was left to work alone,
but an inhabited house,--and for a few moments I enjoyed fellowship
with them. Your so-called wise man goes trying to persuade himself
that there is no entity there but himself and his traps, but it is a
great deal easier to believe the truth. It suggested, too, that the
same experience always gives birth to the same sort of belief or
religion. One revelation has been made to the Indian, another to the
white man. I have much to learn of the Indian, nothing of the
missionary. I am not sure but all that would tempt me to teach the
Indian my religion would be his promise to teach me _his_. Long enough
I had heard of irrelevant things; now at length I was glad to make
acquaintance with the light that dwells in rotten wood. Where is all
your knowledge gone to? It evaporates completely, for it has no depth.

I kept those little chips and wet them again the next night, but they
emitted no light.

       *       *       *       *       *

     SATURDAY, July 25.

At breakfast this Saturday morning, the Indian, evidently curious to
know what would be expected of him the next day, whether we should go
along or not, asked me how I spent the Sunday when at home. I told him
that I commonly sat in my chamber reading, etc., in the forenoon, and
went to walk in the afternoon. At which he shook his head and said,
"Er, that is ver bad." "How do you spend it?" I asked. He said that
he did no work, that he went to church at Oldtown when he was at home;
in short, he did as he had been taught by the whites. This led to a
discussion in which I found myself in the minority. He stated that he
was a Protestant, and asked me if I was. I did not at first know what
to say, but I thought that I could answer with truth that I was.

When we were washing the dishes in the lake, many fishes, apparently
chivin, came close up to us to get the particles of grease.

The weather seemed to be more settled this morning, and we set out
early in order to finish our voyage up the lake before the wind arose.
Soon after starting, the Indian directed our attention to the
Northeast Carry, which we could plainly see, about thirteen miles
distant in that direction as measured on the map, though it is called
much farther. This carry is a rude wooden railroad, running north and
south about two miles, perfectly straight, from the lake to the
Penobscot, through a low tract, with a clearing three or four rods
wide; but low as it is, it passes over the height of land there. This
opening appeared as a clear bright, or light, point in the horizon,
resting on the edge of the lake, whose breadth a hair could have
covered at a considerable distance from the eye, and of no appreciable
height. We should not have suspected it to be visible if the Indian
had not drawn our attention to it. It was a remarkable kind of light
to steer for,--daylight seen through a vista in the forest,--but
visible as far as an ordinary beacon at night.

We crossed a deep and wide bay which makes eastward north of Kineo,
leaving an island on our left, and keeping up the eastern side of the
lake. This way or that led to some Tomhegan or _Socatarian_ stream, up
which the Indian had hunted, and whither I longed to go. The last
name, however, had a bogus sound, too much like sectarian for me, as
if a missionary had tampered with it; but I knew that the Indians were
very liberal. I think I should have inclined to the Tomhegan first.

We then crossed another broad bay, which, as we could no longer
observe the shore particularly, afforded ample time for conversation.
The Indian said that he had got his money by hunting, mostly high up
the West Branch of the Penobscot, and toward the head of the St. John;
he had hunted there from a boy, and knew all about that region. His
game had been beaver, otter, black cat (or fisher), sable, moose, etc.
Loup-cervier (or Canada lynx) were plenty yet in burnt grounds. For
food in the woods, he uses partridges, ducks, dried moose-meat,
hedgehog, etc. Loons, too, were good, only "bile 'em good." He told us
at some length how he had suffered from starvation when a mere lad,
being overtaken by winter when hunting with two grown Indians in the
northern part of Maine, and obliged to leave their canoe on account of
ice.

Pointing into the bay, he said that it was the way to various lakes
which he knew. Only solemn bear-haunted mountains, with their great
wooded slopes, were visible; where, as man is not, we suppose some
other power to be. My imagination personified the slopes themselves,
as if by their very length they would waylay you, and compel you to
camp again on them before night. Some invisible glutton would seem to
drop from the trees and gnaw at the heart of the solitary hunter who
threaded those woods; and yet I was tempted to walk there. The Indian
said that he had been along there several times.

I asked him how he guided himself in the woods. "Oh," said he, "I can
tell good many ways." When I pressed him further, he answered,
"Sometimes I lookum side-hill," and he glanced toward a high hill or
mountain on the eastern shore, "great difference between the north and
south, see where the sun has shone most. So trees,--the large limbs
bend toward south. Sometimes I lookum locks" (rocks). I asked what he
saw on the rocks, but he did not describe anything in particular,
answering vaguely, in a mysterious or drawling tone, "Bare locks on
lake shore,--great difference between north, south, east, west,
side,--can tell what the sun has shone on." "Suppose," said I, "that I
should take you in a dark night, right up here into the middle of the
woods a hundred miles, set you down, and turn you round quickly twenty
times, could you steer straight to Oldtown?" "Oh, yer," said he, "have
done pretty much same thing. I will tell you. Some years ago I met an
old white hunter at Millinocket; very good hunter. He said he could go
anywhere in the woods. He wanted to hunt with me that day, so we
start. We chase a moose all the forenoon, round and round, till middle
of afternoon, when we kill him. Then I said to him, 'Now you go
straight to camp. Don't go round and round where we've been, but go
straight.' He said, 'I can't do that, I don't know where I am.'
'Where you think camp?' I asked. He pointed so. Then I laugh at him. I
take the lead and go right off the other way, cross our tracks many
times, straight camp." "How do you do that?" asked I. "Oh, I can't
tell you," he replied. "Great difference between me and white man."

It appeared as if the sources of information were so various that he
did not give a distinct, conscious attention to any one, and so could
not readily refer to any when questioned about it, but he found his
way very much as an animal does. Perhaps what is commonly called
instinct in the animal, in this case is merely a sharpened and
educated sense. Often, when an Indian says, "I don't know," in regard
to the route he is to take, he does not mean what a white man would by
those words, for his Indian instinct may tell him still as much as the
most confident white man knows. He does not carry things in his head,
nor remember the route exactly, like a white man, but relies on
himself at the moment. Not having experienced the need of the other
sort of knowledge, all labeled and arranged, he has not acquired it.

The white hunter with whom I talked in the stage knew some of the
resources of the Indian. He said that he steered by the wind, or by
the limbs of the hemlocks, which were largest on the south side; also
sometimes, when he knew that there was a lake near, by firing his gun
and listening to hear the direction and distance of the echo from over
it.

The course we took over this lake, and others afterward, was rarely
direct, but a succession of curves from point to point, digressing
considerably into each of the bays; and this was not merely on account
of the wind, for the Indian, looking toward the middle of the lake,
said it was hard to go there, easier to keep near the shore, because
he thus got over it by successive reaches and saw by the shore how he
got along.

The following will suffice for a common experience in crossing lakes
in a canoe. As the forenoon advanced, the wind increased. The last bay
which we crossed before reaching the desolate pier at the Northeast
Carry was two or three miles over, and the wind was southwesterly.
After going a third of the way, the waves had increased so as
occasionally to wash into the canoe, and we saw that it was worse and
worse ahead. At first we might have turned about, but were not willing
to. It would have been of no use to follow the course of the shore,
for not only the distance would have been much greater, but the waves
ran still higher there on account of the greater sweep the wind had.
At any rate it would have been dangerous now to alter our course,
because the waves would have struck us at an advantage. It will not do
to meet them at right angles, for then they will wash in both sides,
but you must take them quartering. So the Indian stood up in the
canoe, and exerted all his skill and strength for a mile or two, while
I paddled right along in order to give him more steerage-way. For more
than a mile he did not allow a single wave to strike the canoe as it
would, but turned it quickly from this side to that, so that it would
always be on or near the crest of a wave when it broke, where all its
force was spent, and we merely settled down with it. At length I
jumped out on to the end of the pier, against which the waves were
dashing violently, in order to lighten the canoe, and catch it at the
landing, which was not much sheltered; but just as I jumped we took in
two or three gallons of water. I remarked to the Indian, "You managed
that well," to which he replied, "Ver few men do that. Great many
waves; when I look out for one, another come quick."

While the Indian went to get cedar bark, etc., to carry his canoe
with, we cooked the dinner on the shore, at this end of the carry, in
the midst of a sprinkling rain.

He prepared his canoe for carrying in this wise. He took a cedar
shingle or splint eighteen inches long and four or five wide, rounded
at one end, that the corners might not be in the way, and tied it with
cedar bark by two holes made midway, near the edge on each side, to
the middle cross-bar of the canoe. When the canoe was lifted upon his
head bottom up, this shingle, with its rounded end uppermost,
distributed the weight over his shoulders and head, while a band of
cedar bark, tied to the cross-bar on each side of the shingle, passed
round his breast, and another longer one, outside of the last, round
his forehead; also a hand on each side-rail served to steer the canoe
and keep it from rocking. He thus carried it with his shoulders, head,
breast, forehead, and both hands, as if the upper part of his body
were all one hand to clasp and hold it. If you know of a better way, I
should like to hear of it. A cedar tree furnished all the gear in this
case, as it had the woodwork of the canoe. One of the paddles rested
on the cross-bars in the bows. I took the canoe upon my head and found
that I could carry it with ease, though the straps were not fitted to
my shoulders; but I let him carry it, not caring to establish a
different precedent, though he said that if I would carry the canoe,
he would take all the rest of the baggage, except my companion's. This
shingle remained tied to the cross-bar throughout the voyage, was
always ready for the carries, and also served to protect the back of
one passenger.

We were obliged to go over this carry twice, our load was so great.
But the carries were an agreeable variety, and we improved the
opportunity to gather the rare plants which we had seen, when we
returned empty handed.

We reached the Penobscot about four o'clock, and found there some St.
Francis Indians encamped on the bank, in the same place where I camped
with four Indians four years before. They were making a canoe, and, as
then, drying moose-meat. The meat looked very suitable to make a
_black_ broth at least. Our Indian said it was not good. Their camp
was covered with spruce bark. They had got a young moose, taken in the
river a fortnight before, confined in a sort of cage of logs piled up
cob-fashion, seven or eight feet high. It was quite tame, about four
feet high, and covered with moose-flies. There was a large quantity of
cornel (_C. stolonifera_), red maple, and also willow and aspen
boughs, stuck through between the logs on all sides, butt ends out,
and on their leaves it was browsing. It looked at first as if it were
in a bower rather than a pen.

Our Indian said that _he_ used _black_ spruce roots to sew canoes
with, obtaining it from high lands or mountains. The St. Francis
Indian thought that _white_ spruce roots might be best. But the former
said, "No good, break, can't split 'em;" also that they were hard to
get, deep in ground, but the black were near the surface, on higher
land, as well as tougher. He said that the white spruce was
_subekoondark_, black, _skusk_. I told him I thought that I could make
a canoe, but he expressed great doubt of it; at any rate, he thought
that my work would not be "neat" the first time. An Indian at
Greenville had told me that the winter bark, that is, bark taken off
before the sap flows in May, was harder and much better than summer
bark.

Having reloaded, we paddled down the Penobscot, which, as the Indian
remarked, and even I detected, remembering how it looked before, was
uncommonly full. We soon after saw a splendid yellow lily (_Lilium
Canadense_) by the shore, which I plucked. It was six feet high, and
had twelve flowers, in two whorls, forming a pyramid, such as I have
seen in Concord. We afterward saw many more thus tall along this
stream, and also still more numerous on the East Branch, and, on the
latter, one which I thought approached yet nearer to the _Lilium
superbum_. The Indian asked what we called it, and said that the
"loots" (roots) were good for soup, that is, to cook with meat, to
thicken it, taking the place of flour. They get them in the fall. I
dug some, and found a mass of bulbs pretty deep in the earth, two
inches in diameter, looking, and even tasting, somewhat like raw green
corn on the ear.

When we had gone about three miles down the Penobscot, we saw through
the tree-tops a thunder-shower coming up in the west, and we looked
out a camping-place in good season, about five o'clock, on the west
side, not far below the mouth of what Joe Aitteon, in '53, called
Lobster Stream, coming from Lobster Pond. Our present Indian, however,
did not admit this name, nor even that of _Matahumkeag_, which is on
the map, but called the lake _Beskabekuk_.

I will describe, once for all, the routine of camping at this season.
We generally told the Indian that we would stop at the first suitable
place, so that he might be on the lookout for it. Having observed a
clear, hard, and flat beach to land on, free from mud, and from stones
which would injure the canoe, one would run up the bank to see if
there were open and level space enough for the camp between the trees,
or if it could be easily cleared, preferring at the same time a cool
place, on account of insects. Sometimes we paddled a mile or more
before finding one to our minds, for where the shore was suitable, the
bank would often be too steep, or else too low and grassy, and
therefore mosquitoey. We then took out the baggage and drew up the
canoe, sometimes turning it over on shore for safety. The Indian cut a
path to the spot we had selected, which was usually within two or
three rods of the water, and we carried up our baggage. One, perhaps,
takes canoe birch bark, always at hand, and dead dry wood or bark, and
kindles a fire five or six feet in front of where we intend to lie. It
matters not, commonly, on which side this is, because there is little
or no wind in so dense a wood at that season; and then he gets a
kettle of water from the river, and takes out the pork, bread, coffee,
etc., from their several packages.

Another, meanwhile, having the axe, cuts down the nearest dead rock
maple or other dry hard wood, collecting several large logs to last
through the night, also a green stake, with a notch or fork to it,
which is slanted over the fire, perhaps resting on a rock or forked
stake, to hang the kettle on, and two forked stakes and a pole for the
tent.

The third man pitches the tent, cuts a dozen or more pins with his
knife, usually of moose-wood, the common underwood, to fasten it down
with, and then collects an armful or two of fir twigs,[8] arbor-vitæ,
spruce, or hemlock, whichever is at hand, and makes the bed, beginning
at either end, and laying the twigs wrong side up, in regular rows,
covering the stub ends of the last row; first, however, filling the
hollows, if there are any, with coarser material. Wrangel says that
his guides in Siberia first strewed a quantity of dry brushwood on the
ground, and then cedar twigs on that.

Commonly, by the time the bed is made, or within fifteen or twenty
minutes, the water boils, the pork is fried, and supper is ready. We
eat this sitting on the ground, or a stump, if there is any, around a
large piece of birch bark for a table, each holding a dipper in one
hand and a piece of ship-bread or fried pork in the other, frequently
making a pass with his hand, or thrusting his head into the smoke, to
avoid the mosquitoes.

Next, pipes are lit by those who smoke, and veils are donned by those
who have them, and we hastily examine and dry our plants, anoint our
faces and hands, and go to bed--and--the mosquitoes.

Though you have nothing to do but see the country, there's rarely any
time to spare, hardly enough to examine a plant, before the night or
drowsiness is upon you.

Such was the ordinary experience, but this evening we had camped
earlier on account of the rain, and had more time.

We found that our camp to-night was on an old, and now more than
usually indistinct, supply road, running along the river. What is
called a road there shows no ruts or trace of wheels, for they are not
used; nor, indeed, of runners, since they are used only in the winter
when the snow is several feet deep. It is only an indistinct vista
through the wood, which it takes an experienced eye to detect.

We had no sooner pitched our tent than the thunder-shower burst on us,
and we hastily crept under it, drawing our bags after us, curious to
see how much of a shelter our thin cotton roof was going to be in this
excursion. Though the violence of the rain forced a fine shower
through the cloth before it was fairly wetted and shrunk, with which
we were well bedewed, we managed to keep pretty dry, only a box of
matches having been left out and spoiled, and before we were aware of
it the shower was over, and only the dripping trees imprisoned us.

Wishing to see what fishes there were in the river there, we cast our
lines over the wet bushes on the shore, but they were repeatedly swept
down the swift stream in vain. So, leaving the Indian, we took the
canoe just before dark, and dropped down the river a few rods to fish
at the mouth of a sluggish brook on the opposite side. We pushed up
this a rod or two, where, perhaps, only a canoe had been before. But
though there were a few small fishes, mostly chivin, there, we were
soon driven off by the mosquitoes. While there we heard the Indian
fire his gun twice in such rapid succession that we thought it must be
double-barreled, though we observed afterward that it was single. His
object was to clean out and dry it after the rain, and he then loaded
it with ball, being now on ground where he expected to meet with large
game. This sudden, loud, crashing noise in the still aisles of the
forest, affected me like an insult to nature, or ill manners at any
rate, as if you were to fire a gun in a hall or temple. It was not
heard far, however, except along the river, the sound being rapidly
hushed up or absorbed by the damp trees and mossy ground.

The Indian made a little smothered fire of damp leaves close to the
back of the camp, that the smoke might drive through and keep out the
mosquitoes; but just before we fell asleep this suddenly blazed up,
and came near setting fire to the tent. We were considerably molested
by mosquitoes at this camp.

       *       *       *       *       *

     SUNDAY, July 26.

The note of the white-throated sparrow, a very inspiriting but almost
wiry sound, was the first heard in the morning, and with this all the
woods rang. This was the prevailing bird in the northern part of
Maine. The forest generally was all alive with them at this season,
and they were proportionally numerous and musical about Bangor. They
evidently breed in that State. Though commonly unseen, their simple
_ah, te-te-te, te-te-te, te-te-te_, so sharp and piercing, was as
distinct to the ear as the passage of a spark of fire shot into the
darkest of the forest would be to the eye. I thought that they
commonly uttered it as they flew. I hear this note for a few days only
in the spring, as they go through Concord, and in the fall see them
again going southward, but then they are mute. We were commonly
aroused by their lively strain very early. What a glorious time they
must have in that wilderness, far from mankind and election day!

I told the Indian that we would go to church to Chesuncook this
(Sunday) morning, some fifteen miles. It was settled weather at last.
A few swallows flitted over the water, we heard Maryland
yellow-throats along the shore, the phebe notes of the chickadee, and,
I believe, redstarts, and moose-flies of large size pursued us in
midstream.

The Indian thought that we should lie by on Sunday. Said he, "We come
here lookum things, look all round; but come Sunday, lock up all that,
and then Monday look again." He spoke of an Indian of his acquaintance
who had been with some ministers to Ktaadn, and had told him how they
conducted. This he described in a low and solemn voice. "They make a
long prayer every morning and night, and at every meal. Come Sunday,"
said he, "they stop 'em, no go at all that day,--keep still,--preach
all day,--first one, then another, just like church. Oh, ver good
men." "One day," said he, "going along a river, they came to the body
of a man in the water, drowned good while, all ready fall to pieces.
They go right ashore,--stop there, go no farther that day,--they have
meeting there, preach and pray just like Sunday. Then they get poles
and lift up the body, and they go back and carry the body with them.
Oh, they ver good men."

I judged from this account that their every camp was a camp-meeting,
and they had mistaken their route,--they should have gone to Eastham;
that they wanted an opportunity to preach somewhere more than to see
Ktaadn. I read of another similar party that seem to have spent their
time there singing the songs of Zion. I was glad that I did not go to
that mountain with such slow coaches.

However, the Indian added, plying the paddle all the while, that if we
would go along, he must go with us, he our man, and he suppose that if
he no takum pay for what he do Sunday, then ther's no harm, but if he
takum pay, then wrong. I told him that he was stricter than white men.
Nevertheless, I noticed that he did not forget to reckon in the
Sundays at last.

He appeared to be a very religious man, and said his prayers in a loud
voice, in Indian, kneeling before the camp, morning and
evening,--sometimes scrambling up again in haste when he had forgotten
this, and saying them with great rapidity. In the course of the day,
he remarked, not very originally, "Poor man rememberum God more than
rich."

We soon passed the island where I had camped four years before, and I
recognized the very spot. The deadwater, a mile or two below it, the
Indian called _Beskabekukskishtuk_, from the lake _Beskabekuk_, which
empties in above. This deadwater, he said, was "a great place for
moose always." We saw the grass bent where a moose came out the night
before, and the Indian said that he could smell one as far as he could
see him; but, he added, that if he should see five or six to-day close
by canoe, he no shoot 'em. Accordingly, as he was the only one of the
party who had a gun, or had come a-hunting, the moose were safe.

Just below this, a cat owl flew heavily over the stream, and he,
asking if I knew what it was, imitated very well the common _hoo, hoo,
hoo, hoorer, hoo_, of our woods; making a hard, guttural sound, "Ugh,
ugh, ugh,--ugh, ugh." When we passed the Moose-horn, he said that it
had no name. What Joe Aitteon had called Ragmuff, he called
_Paytaytequick_, and said that it meant Burnt Ground Stream. We
stopped there, where I had stopped before, and I bathed in this
tributary. It was shallow but cold, apparently too cold for the
Indian, who stood looking on. As we were pushing away again, a
white-headed eagle sailed over our heads. A reach some miles above
Pine Stream, where there were several islands, the Indian said was
_Nonglangyis_ Deadwater. Pine Stream he called Black River, and said
that its Indian name was _Karsaootuk_. He could go to Caribou Lake
that way.

We carried a part of the baggage about Pine Stream Falls, while the
Indian went down in the canoe. A Bangor merchant had told us that two
men in his employ were drowned some time ago while passing these falls
in a batteau, and a third clung to a rock all night, and was taken off
in the morning. There were magnificent great purple fringed orchises
on this carry and the neighboring shores. I measured the largest canoe
birch which I saw in this journey near the end of the carry. It was
14½ feet in circumference at two feet from the ground, but at five
feet divided into three parts. The canoe birches thereabouts were
commonly marked by conspicuous dark spiral ridges, with a groove
between, so that I thought at first that they had been struck by
lightning, but, as the Indian said, it was evidently caused by the
grain of the tree. He cut a small, woody knob, as big as a filbert,
from the trunk of a fir, apparently an old balsam vesicle filled with
wood, which he said was good medicine.

After we had embarked and gone half a mile, my companion remembered
that he had left his knife, and we paddled back to get it, against the
strong and swift current. This taught us the difference between going
up and down the stream, for while we were working our way back a
quarter of a mile, we should have gone down a mile and a half at
least. So we landed, and while he and the Indian were gone back for
it, I watched the motions of the foam, a kind of white water-fowl near
the shore, forty or fifty rods below. It alternately appeared and
disappeared behind the rock, being carried round by an eddy. Even this
semblance of life was interesting on that lonely river.

Immediately below these falls was the Chesuncook Deadwater, caused by
the flowing back of the lake. As we paddled slowly over this, the
Indian told us a story of his hunting thereabouts, and something more
interesting about himself. It appeared that he had represented his
tribe at Augusta, and also once at Washington, where he had met some
Western chiefs. He had been consulted at Augusta, and gave advice,
which he said was followed, respecting the eastern boundary of Maine,
as determined by highlands and streams, at the time of the
difficulties on that side. He was employed with the surveyors on the
line. Also he had called on Daniel Webster in Boston, at the time of
his Bunker Hill oration.

I was surprised to hear him say that he liked to go to Boston, New
York, Philadelphia, etc., etc.; that he would like to live there. But
then, as if relenting a little, when he thought what a poor figure he
would make there, he added, "I suppose, I live in New York, I be
poorest hunter, I expect." He understood very well both his superiority
and his inferiority to the whites. He criticised the people of the
United States as compared with other nations, but the only distinct
idea with which he labored was, that they were "very strong," but,
like some individuals, "too fast." He must have the credit of saying
this just before the general breaking down of railroads and banks. He
had a great idea of education, and would occasionally break out into
such expressions as this, "Kademy--a-cad-e-my--good thing--I suppose
they usum Fifth Reader there.... You been college?"

From this deadwater the outlines of the mountains about Ktaadn were
visible. The top of Ktaadn was concealed by a cloud, but the Souneunk
Mountains were nearer, and quite visible. We steered across the
northwest end of the lake, from which we looked down south-southeast,
the whole length to Joe Merry Mountain, seen over its extremity. It is
an agreeable change to cross a lake, after you have been shut up in
the woods, not only on account of the greater expanse of water, but
also of sky. It is one of the surprises which Nature has in store for
the traveler in the forest. To look down, in this case, over eighteen
miles of water, was liberating and civilizing even. No doubt, the
short distance to which you can see in the woods, and the general
twilight, would at length react on the inhabitants, and make them
salvages. The lakes also reveal the mountains, and give ample scope
and range to our thought. The very gulls which we saw sitting on the
rocks, like white specks, or circling about, reminded me of
custom-house officers. Already there were half a dozen log huts about
this end of the lake, though so far from a road. I perceive that in
these woods the earliest settlements are, for various reasons,
clustering about the lakes, but partly, I think, for the sake of the
neighborhood as the oldest clearings. They are forest schools already
established,--great centres of light. Water is a pioneer which the
settler follows, taking advantage of its improvements.

Thus far only I had been before. About noon we turned northward, up a
broad kind of estuary, and at its northeast corner found the
Caucomgomoc River, and after going about a mile from the lake, reached
the Umbazookskus, which comes in on the right at a point where the
former river, coming from the west, turns short to the south. Our
course was up the Umbazookskus, but as the Indian knew of a good
camping-place, that is, a cool place where there were few mosquitoes
about half a mile farther up the Caucomgomoc, we went thither. The
latter river, judging from the map, is the longer and principal
stream, and, therefore, its name must prevail below the junction. So
quickly we changed the civilizing sky of Chesuncook for the dark wood
of the Caucomgomoc. On reaching the Indian's camping-ground, on the
south side, where the bank was about a dozen feet high, I read on the
trunk of a fir tree, blazed by an axe, an inscription in charcoal
which had been left by him. It was surmounted by a drawing of a bear
paddling a canoe, which he said was the sign which had been used by
his family always. The drawing, though rude, could not be mistaken for
anything but a bear, and he doubted my ability to copy it. The
inscription ran thus, _verbatim et literatim_. I interline the English
of his Indian as he gave it to me.

     [The figure of a bear in a boat.]

                  July 26
                   1853
                -----------
                _niasoseb_
              We alone Joseph
               _Polis elioi_
                Polis start
                 _sia olta_
                for Oldtown
                 _onke ni_
                right away
                 _quambi_
               ------------
                 July 15
                   1855
                _niasoseb_

He added now below:--

                   1857
                 July 26
                Jo. Polis

This was one of his homes. I saw where he had sometimes stretched his
moose-hides on the opposite or sunny north side of the river, where
there was a narrow meadow.

After we had selected a place for our camp, and kindled our fire,
almost exactly on the site of the Indian's last camp here, he, looking
up, observed, "That tree danger." It was a dead part, more than a foot
in diameter, of a large canoe birch, which branched at the ground.
This branch, rising thirty feet or more, slanted directly over the
spot which we had chosen for our bed. I told him to try it with his
axe; but he could not shake it perceptibly, and therefore seemed
inclined to disregard it, and my companion expressed his willingness
to run the risk. But it seemed to me that we should be fools to lie
under it, for though the lower part was firm, the top, for aught we
knew, might be just ready to fall, and we should at any rate be very
uneasy if the wind arose in the night. It is a common accident for men
camping in the woods to be killed by a falling tree. So the camp was
moved to the other side of the fire.

It was, as usual, a damp and shaggy forest, that Caucomgomoc one, and
the most you knew about it was, that on this side it stretched toward
the settlements, and on that to still more unfrequented regions. You
carried so much topography in your mind always,--and sometimes it
seemed to make a considerable difference whether you sat or lay nearer
the settlements, or farther off, than your companions,--were the rear
or frontier man of the camp. But there is really the same difference
between our positions wherever we may be camped, and some are nearer
the frontiers on feather-beds in the towns than others on fir twigs in
the backwoods.

The Indian said that the Umbazookskus, being a dead stream with broad
meadows, was a good place for moose, and he frequently came a-hunting
here, being out alone three weeks or more from Oldtown. He sometimes,
also, went a-hunting to the Seboois Lakes, taking the stage, with his
gun and ammunition, axe and blankets, hard-bread and pork, perhaps for
a hundred miles of the way, and jumped off at the wildest place on the
road, where he was at once at home, and every rod was a tavern-site
for him. Then, after a short journey through the woods, he would build
a spruce-bark canoe in one day, putting but few ribs into it, that it
might be light, and, after doing his hunting with it on the lakes,
would return with his furs the same way he had come. Thus you have an
Indian availing himself cunningly of the advantages of civilization,
without losing any of his woodcraft, but proving himself the more
successful hunter for it.

This man was very clever and quick to learn anything in his line. Our
tent was of a kind new to him; but when he had once seen it pitched,
it was surprising how quickly he would find and prepare the pole and
forked stakes to pitch it with, cutting and placing them right the
first time, though I am sure that the majority of white men would have
blundered several times.

This river came from Caucomgomoc Lake, about ten miles farther up.
Though it was sluggish here, there were falls not far above us, and we
saw the foam from them go by from time to time. The Indian said that
_Caucomgomoc_ meant Big-Gull Lake (_i. e._, herring gull, I suppose),
gomoc meaning lake. Hence this was _Caucomgomoctook_, or the river
from that lake. This was the Penobscot _Caucomgomoctook_; there was
another St. John one not far north. He finds the eggs of this gull,
sometimes twenty together, as big as hen's eggs, on rocky ledges on
the west side of Millinocket River, for instance, and eats them.

Now I thought I would observe how he spent his Sunday. While I and my
companion were looking about at the trees and river, he went to sleep.
Indeed, he improved every opportunity to get a nap, whatever the day.

Rambling about the woods at this camp, I noticed that they consisted
chiefly of firs, black spruce, and some white, red maple, canoe birch,
and, along the river, the hoary alder (_Alnus incana_). I name them in
the order of their abundance. The _Viburnum nudum_ was a common shrub,
and of smaller plants, there were the dwarf cornel, great round-leaved
orchis, abundant and in bloom (a greenish-white flower growing in
little communities), _Uvularia grandiflora_, whose stem tasted like a
cucumber, _Pyrola secunda_, apparently the commonest pyrola in those
woods, now out of bloom, _Pyrola elliptica_, and _Chiogenes
hispidula_. The _Clintonia borealis_, with ripe berries, was very
abundant, and perfectly at home there. Its leaves, disposed commonly
in triangles about its stem, were just as handsomely formed and green,
and its berries as blue and glossy, as if it grew by some botanist's
favorite path.

I could trace the outlines of large birches that had fallen long ago,
collapsed and rotted and turned to soil, by faint yellowish-green
lines of feather-like moss, eighteen inches wide and twenty or thirty
feet long, crossed by other similar lines.

I heard a night-warbler, wood thrush, kingfisher, tweezer-bird or
parti-colored warbler, and a nighthawk. I also heard and saw red
squirrels, and heard a bullfrog. The Indian said that he heard a
snake.

Wild as it was, it was hard for me to get rid of the associations of
the settlements. Any steady and monotonous sound, to which I did not
distinctly attend, passed for a sound of human industry. The
waterfalls which I heard were not without their dams and mills to my
imagination; and several times I found that I had been regarding the
steady rushing sound of the wind from over the woods beyond the rivers
as that of a train of cars,--the cars at Quebec. Our minds anywhere,
when left to themselves, are always thus busily drawing conclusions
from false premises.

I asked the Indian to make us a sugar-bowl of birch bark, which he
did, using the great knife which dangled in a sheath from his belt;
but the bark broke at the corners when he bent it up, and he said it
was not good; that there was a great difference in this respect
between the bark of one canoe birch and that of another, _i. e._, one
cracked more easily than another. I used some thin and delicate sheets
of this bark which he split and cut, in my flower-book; thinking it
would be good to separate the dried specimens from the green.

My companion, wishing to distinguish between the black and white
spruce, asked Polis to show him a twig of the latter, which he did at
once, together with the black; indeed, he could distinguish them about
as far as he could see them; but as the two twigs appeared very much
alike, my companion asked the Indian to point out the difference;
whereupon the latter, taking the twigs, instantly remarked, as he
passed his hand over them successively in a stroking manner, that the
white was rough (_i. e._, the needles stood up nearly perpendicular),
but the black smooth (_i. e._, as if bent or combed down). This was an
obvious difference, both to sight and touch. However, if I remember
rightly, this would not serve to distinguish the white spruce from the
light-colored variety of the black.

I asked him to let me see him get some black spruce root, and make
some thread. Whereupon, without looking up at the trees overhead, he
began to grub in the ground, instantly distinguishing the black spruce
roots, and cutting off a slender one, three or four feet long, and as
big as a pipe-stem, he split the end with his knife, and, taking a
half between the thumb and forefinger of each hand, rapidly separated
its whole length into two equal semicylindrical halves; then giving me
another root, he said, "You try." But in my hands it immediately ran
off one side, and I got only a very short piece. In short, though it
looked very easy, I found that there was a great art in splitting
these roots. The split is skillfully humored by bending short with
this hand or that, and so kept in the middle. He then took off the
bark from each half, pressing a short piece of cedar bark against the
convex side with both hands, while he drew the root upward with his
teeth. An Indian's teeth are strong, and I noticed that he used his
often where we should have used a hand. They amounted to a third hand.
He thus obtained, in a moment, a very neat, tough, and flexible
string, which he could tie into a knot, or make into a fish-line even.
It is said that in Norway and Sweden the roots of the Norway spruce
(_Abies excelsa_) are used in the same way for the same purpose. He
said that you would be obliged to give half a dollar for spruce root
enough for a canoe, thus prepared. He had hired the sewing of his own
canoe, though he made all the rest. The root in his canoe was of a
pale slate-color, probably acquired by exposure to the weather, or
perhaps from being boiled in water first.

He had discovered the day before that his canoe leaked a little, and
said that it was owing to stepping into it violently, which forced the
water under the edge of the horizontal seams on the side. I asked him
where he would get pitch to mend it with, for they commonly use hard
pitch, obtained of the whites at Oldtown. He said that he could make
something very similar, and equally good, not of spruce gum, or the
like, but of material which we had with us; and he wished me to guess
what. But I could not, and he would not tell me, though he showed me a
ball of it when made, as big as a pea, and like black pitch, saying,
at last, that there were some things which a man did not tell even his
wife. It may have been his own discovery. In Arnold's expedition the
pioneers used for their canoe "the turpentine of the pine, and the
scrapings of the pork-bag."

Being curious to see what kind of fishes there were in this dark,
deep, sluggish river, I cast in my line just before night, and caught
several small somewhat yellowish sucker-like fishes, which the Indian
at once rejected, saying that they were _michigan_ fish (_i. e._,
_soft_ and _stinking_ fish) and good for nothing. Also, he would not
touch a pout, which I caught, and said that neither Indians nor whites
thereabouts ever ate them, which I thought was singular, since they
are esteemed in Massachusetts, and he had told me that he ate
hedgehogs, loons, etc. But he said that some small silvery fishes,
which I called white chivin, which were similar in size and form to
the first, were the best fish in the Penobscot waters, and if I would
toss them up the bank to him, he would cook them for me. After
cleaning them, not very carefully, leaving the heads on, he laid them
on the coals and so broiled them.

Returning from a short walk, he brought a vine in his hand, and asked
me if I knew what it was, saying that it made the best tea of anything
in the woods. It was the creeping snowberry (_Chiogenes hispidula_),
which was quite common there, its berries just grown. He called it
_cowosnebagosar_, which name implies that it grows where old prostrate
trunks have collapsed and rotted. So we determined to have some tea
made of this to-night. It had a slight checkerberry flavor, and we
both agreed that it was really better than the black tea which we had
brought. We thought it quite a discovery, and that it might well be
dried, and sold in the shops. I, for one, however, am not an old
tea-drinker, and cannot speak with authority to others. It would have
been particularly good to carry along for a cold drink during the
day, the water thereabouts being invariably warm. The Indian said that
they also used for tea a certain herb which grew in low ground, which
he did not find there, and ledum, or Labrador tea, which I have since
found and tried in Concord; also hemlock leaves, the last especially
in the winter, when the other plants were covered with snow; and
various other things; but he did not approve of arbor-vitæ, which I
said I had drunk in those woods. We could have had a new kind of tea
every night.

Just before night we saw a _musquash_ (he did not say muskrat), the
only one we saw in this voyage, swimming downward on the opposite side
of the stream. The Indian, wishing to get one to eat, hushed us,
saying, "Stop, me call 'em;" and, sitting flat on the bank, he began
to make a curious squeaking, wiry sound with his lips, exerting
himself considerably. I was greatly surprised,--thought that I had at
last got into the wilderness, and that he was a wild man indeed, to be
talking to a musquash! I did not know which of the two was the
strangest to me. He seemed suddenly to have quite forsaken humanity,
and gone over to the musquash side. The musquash, however, as near as
I could see, did not turn aside, though he may have hesitated a
little, and the Indian said that he saw our fire; but it was evident
that he was in the habit of calling the musquash to him, as he said.
An acquaintance of mine who was hunting moose in those woods a month
after this, tells me that his Indian in this way repeatedly called the
musquash within reach of his paddle in the moonlight, and struck at
them.

The Indian said a particularly long prayer this Sunday evening, as if
to atone for working in the morning.

       *       *       *       *       *

     MONDAY, July 27.

Having rapidly loaded the canoe, which the Indian always carefully
attended to, that it might be well trimmed, and each having taken a
look, as usual, to see that nothing was left, we set out again
descending the Caucomgomoc, and turning northeasterly up the
_Umbazookskus_. This name, the Indian said, meant Much Meadow River.
We found it a very meadowy stream, and deadwater, and now very wide on
account of the rains, though, he said, it was sometimes quite narrow.
The space between the woods, chiefly bare meadow, was from fifty to
two hundred rods in breadth, and is a rare place for moose. It
reminded me of the Concord; and what increased the resemblance was one
old musquash-house almost afloat.

In the water on the meadows grew sedges, wool-grass, the common blue
flag abundantly, its flower just showing itself above the high water,
as if it were a blue water-lily, and higher in the meadows a great
many clumps of a peculiar narrow-leaved willow (_Salix petiolaris_),
which is common in our river meadows. It was the prevailing one here,
and the Indian said that the musquash ate much of it; and here also
grew the red osier (_Cornus stolonifera_), its large fruit now
whitish.

Though it was still early in the morning, we saw nighthawks circling
over the meadow, and as usual heard the pepe (_Muscicapa Cooperi_),
which is one of the prevailing birds in these woods, and the robin.

It was unusual for the woods to be so distant from the shore, and
there was quite an echo from them, but when I was shouting in order to
awake it, the Indian reminded me that I should scare the moose, which
he was looking out for, and which we all wanted to see. The word for
echo was _Pockadunkquaywayle_.

A broad belt of dead larch trees along the distant edge of the meadow,
against the forest on each side, increased the usual wildness of the
scenery. The Indian called these juniper, and said that they had been
killed by the backwater caused by the dam at the outlet of Chesuncook
Lake, some twenty miles distant. I plucked at the water's edge the
_Asclepias incarnata_, with quite handsome flowers, a brighter red
than our variety (the _pulchra_). It was the only form of it which I
saw there.

Having paddled several miles up the Umbazookskus, it suddenly
contracted to a mere brook, narrow and swift, the larches and other
trees approaching the bank and leaving no open meadow, and we landed
to get a black spruce pole for pushing against the stream. This was
the first occasion for one. The one selected was quite slender, cut
about ten feet long, merely whittled to a point, and the bark shaved
off. The stream, though narrow and swift, was still deep, with a muddy
bottom, as I proved by diving to it. Beside the plants which I have
mentioned, I observed on the bank here the _Salix cordata_ and
_rostrata_, _Ranunculus recurvatus_, and _Rubus triflorus_ with ripe
fruit.

While we were thus employed, two Indians in a canoe hove in sight
round the bushes, coming down stream. Our Indian knew one of them, an
old man, and fell into conversation with him in Indian. He belonged at
the foot of Moosehead. The other was of another tribe. They were
returning from hunting. I asked the younger if they had seen any
moose, to which he said no; but I, seeing the moose-hides sticking out
from a great bundle made with their blankets in the middle of the
canoe, added, "Only their hides." As he was a foreigner, he may have
wished to deceive me, for it is against the law for white men and
foreigners to kill moose in Maine at this season. But perhaps he need
not have been alarmed, for the moose-wardens are not very particular.
I heard quite directly of one who being asked by a white man going
into the woods what he would say if he killed a moose, answered, "If
you bring me a quarter of it, I guess you won't be troubled." His duty
being, as he said, only to prevent the "indiscriminate" slaughter of
them for their hides. I suppose that he would consider it an
_indiscriminate_ slaughter when a quarter was not reserved for
himself. Such are the perquisites of this office.

We continued along through the most extensive larch wood which I had
seen,--tall and slender trees with fantastic branches. But though this
was the prevailing tree here, I do not remember that we saw any
afterward. You do not find straggling trees of this species here and
there throughout the wood, but rather a little forest of them. The
same is the case with the white and red pines, and some other trees,
greatly to the convenience of the lumberer. They are of a social
habit, growing in "veins," "clumps," "groups," or "communities," as
the explorers call them, distinguishing them far away, from the top of
a hill or a tree, the white pines towering above the surrounding
forest, or else they form extensive forests by themselves. I should
have liked to come across a large community of pines, which had never
been invaded by the lumbering army.

We saw some fresh moose-tracks along the shore, but the Indian said
that the moose were not driven out of the woods by the flies, as usual
at this season, on account of the abundance of water everywhere. The
stream was only from one and one half to three rods wide, quite
winding, with occasional small islands, meadows, and some very swift
and shallow places. When we came to an island, the Indian never
hesitated which side to take, as if the current told him which was the
shortest and deepest. It was lucky for us that the water was so high.
We had to walk but once on this stream, carrying a part of the load,
at a swift and shallow reach, while he got up with the canoe, not
being obliged to take out, though he said it was very strong water.
Once or twice we passed the red wreck of a batteau which had been
stove some spring.

While making this portage I saw many splendid specimens of the great
purple fringed orchis, three feet high. It is remarkable that such
delicate flowers should here adorn these wilderness paths.

Having resumed our seats in the canoe, I felt the Indian wiping my
back, which he had accidentally spat upon. He said it was a sign that
I was going to be married.

The Umbazookskus River is called ten miles long. Having poled up the
narrowest part some three or four miles, the next opening in the sky
was over Umbazookskus Lake, which we suddenly entered about eleven
o'clock in the forenoon. It stretches northwesterly four or five
miles, with what the Indian called the Caucomgomoc Mountain seen far
beyond it. It was an agreeable change.

This lake was very shallow a long distance from the shore, and I saw
stone-heaps on the bottom, like those in the Assabet at home. The
canoe ran into one. The Indian thought that they were made by an eel.
Joe Aitteon in 1853 thought that they were made by chub. We crossed
the southeast end of the lake to the carry into Mud Pond.

Umbazookskus Lake is the head of the Penobscot in this direction, and
Mud Pond is the nearest head of the Allegash, one of the chief sources
of the St. John. Hodge, who went through this way to the St. Lawrence
in the service of the State, calls the portage here a mile and three
quarters long, and states that Mud Pond has been found to be fourteen
feet higher than Umbazookskus Lake. As the West Branch of the
Penobscot at the Moosehead carry is considered about twenty-five feet
lower than Moosehead Lake, it appears that the Penobscot in the upper
part of its course runs in a broad and shallow valley, between the
Kennebec and St. John, and lower than either of them, though, judging
from the map, you might expect it to be the highest.

Mud Pond is about halfway from Umbazookskus to Chamberlain Lake, into
which it empties, and to which we were bound. The Indian said that
this was the wettest carry in the State, and as the season was a very
wet one, we anticipated an unpleasant walk. As usual he made one large
bundle of the pork-keg, cooking-utensils, and other loose traps, by
tying them up in his blanket. We should be obliged to go over the
carry twice, and our method was to carry one half part way, and then
go back for the rest.

Our path ran close by the door of a log hut in a clearing at this end
of the carry, which the Indian, who alone entered it, found to be
occupied by a Canadian and his family, and that the man had been blind
for a year. He seemed peculiarly unfortunate to be taken blind there,
where there were so few eyes to see for him. He could not even be led
out of that country by a dog, but must be taken down the rapids as
passively as a barrel of flour. This was the first house above
Chesuncook, and the last on the Penobscot waters, and was built here,
no doubt, because it was the route of the lumberers in the winter and
spring.

After a slight ascent from the lake through the springy soil of the
Canadian's clearing, we entered on a level and very wet and rocky path
through the universal dense evergreen forest, a loosely paved gutter
merely, where we went leaping from rock to rock and from side to side,
in the vain attempt to keep out of the water and mud. We concluded
that it was yet Penobscot water, though there was no flow to it. It
was on this carry that the white hunter whom I met in the stage, as he
told me, had shot two bears a few months before. They stood directly
in the path, and did not turn out for him. They might be excused for
not turning out there, or only taking the right as the law directs.
He said that at this season bears were found on the mountains and
hillsides in search of berries, and were apt to be saucy,--that we
might come across them up Trout Stream; and he added, what I hardly
credited, that many Indians slept in their canoes, not daring to sleep
on land, on account of them.

Here commences what was called, twenty years ago, the best timber land
in the State. This very spot was described as "covered with the
greatest abundance of pine," but now this appeared to me,
comparatively, an uncommon tree there,--and yet you did not see where
any more could have stood, amid the dense growth of cedar, fir, etc.
It was then proposed to cut a canal from lake to lake here, but the
outlet was finally made farther east, at Telos Lake, as we shall see.

The Indian with his canoe soon disappeared before us; but ere long he
came back and told us to take a path which turned off westward, it
being better walking, and, at my suggestion, he agreed to leave a
bough in the regular carry at that place, that we might not pass it by
mistake. Thereafter, he said, we were to keep the main path, and he
added, "You see 'em my tracks." But I had not much faith that we could
distinguish his tracks, since others had passed over the carry within
a few days.

We turned off at the right place, but were soon confused by numerous
logging-paths, coming into the one we were on, by which lumberers had
been to pick out those pines which I have mentioned. However, we kept
what we considered the main path, though it was a winding one, and in
this, at long intervals, we distinguished a faint trace of a
footstep. This, though comparatively unworn, was at first a better,
or, at least, a drier road than the regular carry which we had left.
It led through an arbor-vitæ wilderness of the grimmest character. The
great fallen and rotting trees had been cut through and rolled aside,
and their huge trunks abutted on the path on each side, while others
still lay across it two or three feet high. It was impossible for us
to discern the Indian's trail in the elastic moss, which, like a thick
carpet, covered every rock and fallen tree, as well as the earth.
Nevertheless, I did occasionally detect the track of a man, and I gave
myself some credit for it. I carried my whole load at once, a heavy
knapsack, and a large india-rubber bag, containing our bread and a
blanket, swung on a paddle; in all, about sixty pounds; but my
companion preferred to make two journeys, by short stages, while I
waited for him. We could not be sure that we were not depositing our
loads each time farther off from the true path.

As I sat waiting for my companion, he would seem to be gone a long
time, and I had ample opportunity to make observations on the forest.
I now first began to be seriously molested by the black fly, a very
small but perfectly formed fly of that color, about one tenth of an
inch long, which I first felt, and then saw, in swarms about me, as I
sat by a wider and more than usually doubtful fork in this dark forest
path. The hunters tell bloody stories about them,--how they settle in
a ring about your neck, before you know it, and are wiped off in great
numbers with your blood. But remembering that I had a wash in my
knapsack, prepared by a thoughtful hand in Bangor, I made haste to
apply it to my face and hands, and was glad to find it effectual, as
long as it was fresh, or for twenty minutes, not only against black
flies, but all the insects that molested us. They would not alight on
the part thus defended. It was composed of sweet oil and oil of
turpentine, with a little oil of spearmint, and camphor. However, I
finally concluded that the remedy was worse than the disease. It was
so disagreeable and inconvenient to have your face and hands covered
with such a mixture.

Three large slate-colored birds of the jay genus (_Garrulus
Canadensis_), the Canada jay, moose-bird, meat-bird, or what not, came
flitting silently and by degrees toward me, and hopped down the limbs
inquisitively to within seven or eight feet. They were more clumsy and
not nearly so handsome as the bluejay. Fish hawks, from the lake,
uttered their sharp whistling notes low over the top of the forest
near me, as if they were anxious about a nest there.

After I had sat there some time, I noticed at this fork in the path a
tree which had been blazed, and the letters "Chamb. L." written on it
with red chalk. This I knew to mean Chamberlain Lake. So I concluded
that on the whole we were on the right course, though as we had come
nearly two miles, and saw no signs of Mud Pond, I did harbor the
suspicion that we might be on a direct course to Chamberlain Lake,
leaving out Mud Pond. This I found by my map would be about five miles
northeasterly, and I then took the bearing by my compass.

My companion having returned with his bag, and also defended his face
and hands with the insect-wash, we set forward again. The walking
rapidly grew worse, and the path more indistinct, and at length, after
passing through a patch of _Calla palustris_, still abundantly in
bloom, we found ourselves in a more open and regular swamp, made less
passable than ordinary by the unusual wetness of the season. We sank a
foot deep in water and mud at every step, and sometimes up to our
knees, and the trail was almost obliterated, being no more than that a
musquash leaves in similar places, when he parts the floating sedge.
In fact, it probably was a musquash trail in some places. We concluded
that if Mud Pond was as muddy as the approach to it was wet, it
certainly deserved its name. It would have been amusing to behold the
dogged and deliberate pace at which we entered that swamp, without
interchanging a word, as if determined to go through it, though it
should come up to our necks. Having penetrated a considerable distance
into this, and found a tussock on which we could deposit our loads,
though there was no place to sit, my companion went back for the rest
of his pack. I had thought to observe on this carry when we crossed
the dividing line between the Penobscot and St. John, but as my feet
had hardly been out of water the whole distance, and it was all level
and stagnant, I began to despair of finding it. I remembered hearing a
good deal about the "highlands" dividing the waters of the Penobscot
from those of the St. John, as well as the St. Lawrence, at the time
of the northeast boundary dispute, and I observed by my map, that the
line claimed by Great Britain as the boundary prior to 1842 passed
between Umbazookskus Lake and Mud Pond, so that we had either crossed
or were then on it. These, then, according to _her_ interpretation of
the treaty of '83, were the "highlands which divide those rivers that
empty themselves into the St. Lawrence from those which fall into the
Atlantic Ocean." Truly an interesting spot to stand on,--if that were
it,--though you could not sit down there. I thought that if the
commissioners themselves, and the King of Holland with them, had spent
a few days here, with their packs upon their backs, looking for that
"highland," they would have had an interesting time, and perhaps it
would have modified their views of the question somewhat. The King of
Holland would have been in his element. Such were my meditations while
my companion was gone back for his bag.

It was a cedar swamp, through which the peculiar note of the
white-throated sparrow rang loud and clear. There grew the side-saddle
flower, Labrador tea, _Kalmia glauca_, and, what was new to me, the
low birch (_Betula pumila_), a little round-leafed shrub, two or three
feet high only. We thought to name this swamp after the latter.

After a long while my companion came back, and the Indian with him. We
had taken the wrong road, and the Indian had lost us. He had very
wisely gone back to the Canadian's camp, and asked him which way we
had probably gone, since he could better understand the ways of white
men, and he told him correctly that we had undoubtedly taken the
supply road to Chamberlain Lake (slender supplies they would get over
such a road at this season). The Indian was greatly surprised that we
should have taken what he called a "tow" (_i. e._, tote or toting or
supply) road, instead of a carry path,--that we had not followed his
tracks,--said it was "strange," and evidently thought little of our
woodcraft.

Having held a consultation, and eaten a mouthful of bread, we
concluded that it would perhaps be nearer for us two now to keep on to
Chamberlain Lake, omitting Mud Pond, than to go back and start anew
for the last place, though the Indian had never been through this way,
and knew nothing about it. In the meanwhile he would go back and
finish carrying over his canoe and bundle to Mud Pond, cross that, and
go down its outlet and up Chamberlain Lake, and trust to meet us there
before night. It was now a little after noon. He supposed that the
water in which we stood had flowed back from Mud Pond, which could not
be far off eastward, but was unapproachable through the dense cedar
swamp.

Keeping on, we were ere long agreeably disappointed by reaching firmer
ground, and we crossed a ridge where the path was more distinct, but
there was never any outlook over the forest. While descending the
last, I saw many specimens of the great round-leaved orchis, of large
size; one which I measured had leaves, as usual, flat on the ground,
nine and a half inches long, and nine wide, and was two feet high. The
dark, damp wilderness is favorable to some of these orchidaceous
plants, though they are too delicate for cultivation. I also saw the
swamp gooseberry (_Rides lacustre_), with green fruit, and in all the
low ground, where it was not too wet, the _Rubus triflorus_ in fruit.
At one place I heard a very clear and piercing note from a small hawk,
like a single note from a white-throated sparrow, only very much
louder, as he dashed through the tree-tops over my head. I wondered
that he allowed himself to be disturbed by our presence, since it
seemed as if he could not easily find his nest again himself in that
wilderness. We also saw and heard several times the red squirrel, and
often, as before observed, the bluish scales of the fir cones which it
had left on a rock or fallen tree. This, according to the Indian, is
the only squirrel found in those woods, except a very few striped
ones. It must have a solitary time in that dark evergreen forest,
where there is so little life, seventy-five miles from a road as we
had come. I wondered how he could call any particular tree there his
home; and yet he would run up the stem of one out of the myriads, as
if it were an old road to him. How can a hawk ever find him there? I
fancied that he must be glad to see us, though he did seem to chide
us. One of those sombre fir and spruce woods is not complete unless
you hear from out its cavernous mossy and twiggy recesses his fine
alarum,--his spruce voice, like the working of the sap through some
crack in a tree,--the working of the spruce beer. Such an impertinent
fellow would occasionally try to alarm the wood about me. "Oh," said
I, "I am well acquainted with your family, I know your cousins in
Concord very well. Guess the mail's irregular in these parts, and
you'd like to hear from 'em." But my overtures were vain, for he would
withdraw by his aerial turnpikes into a more distant cedar-top, and
spring his rattle again.

We then entered another swamp, at a necessarily slow pace, where the
walking was worse than ever, not only on account of the water, but the
fallen timber, which often obliterated the indistinct trail entirely.
The fallen trees were so numerous, that for long distances the route
was through a succession of small yards, where we climbed over fences
as high as our heads, down into water often up to our knees, and then
over another fence into a second yard, and so on; and, going back for
his bag, my companion once lost his way and came back without it. In
many places the canoe would have run if it had not been for the fallen
timber. Again it would be more open, but equally wet, too wet for
trees to grow, and no place to sit down. It was a mossy swamp, which
it required the long legs of a moose to traverse, and it is very
likely that we scared some of them in our transit, though we saw none.
It was ready to echo the growl of a bear, the howl of a wolf, or the
scream of a panther; but when you get fairly into the middle of one of
these grim forests, you are surprised to find that the larger
inhabitants are not at home commonly, but have left only a puny red
squirrel to bark at you. Generally speaking, a howling wilderness does
not howl: it is the imagination of the traveler that does the howling.
I did, however, see one dead porcupine; perhaps he had succumbed to
the difficulties of the way. These bristly fellows are a very suitable
small fruit of such unkempt wildernesses.

Making a logging-road in the Maine woods is called "swamping" it, and
they who do the work are called "swampers." I now perceived the
fitness of the term. This was the most perfectly swamped of all the
roads I ever saw. Nature must have cooperated with art here. However,
I suppose they would tell you that this name took its origin from the
fact that the chief work of roadmakers in those woods is to make the
swamps passable. We came to a stream where the bridge, which had been
made of logs tied together with cedar bark, had been broken up, and we
got over as we could. This probably emptied into Mud Pond, and perhaps
the Indian might have come up it and taken us in there if he had known
it. Such as it was, this ruined bridge was the chief evidence that we
were on a path of any kind.

We then crossed another low rising ground, and I, who wore shoes, had
an opportunity to wring out my stockings, but my companion, who used
boots, had found that this was not a safe experiment for him, for he
might not be able to get his wet boots on again. He went over the
whole ground, or water, three times, for which reason our progress was
very slow; beside that the water softened our feet, and to some extent
unfitted them for walking. As I sat waiting for him, it would
naturally seem an unaccountable time that he was gone. Therefore, as I
could see through the woods that the sun was getting low, and it was
uncertain how far the lake might be, even if we were on the right
course, and in what part of the world we should find ourselves at
nightfall, I proposed that I should push through with what speed I
could, leaving boughs to mark my path, and find the lake and the
Indian, if possible, before night, and send the latter back to carry
my companion's bag.

Having gone about a mile, and got into low ground again, I heard a
noise like the note of an owl, which I soon discovered to be made by
the Indian, and, answering him, we soon came together. He had reached
the lake, after crossing Mud Pond, and running some rapids below it,
and had come up about a mile and a half on our path. If he had not
come back to meet us, we probably should not have found him that
night, for the path branched once or twice before reaching this
particular part of the lake. So he went back for my companion and his
bag, while I kept on. Having waded through another stream, where the
bridge of logs had been broken up and half floated away,--and this was
not altogether worse than our ordinary walking, since it was less
muddy,--we continued on, through alternate mud and water, to the shore
of Apmoojenegamook Lake, which we reached in season for a late supper,
instead of dining there, as we had expected, having gone without our
dinner. It was at least five miles by the way we had come, and as my
companion had gone over most of it three times, he had walked full a
dozen miles, bad as it was. In the winter, when the water is frozen,
and the snow is four feet deep, it is no doubt a tolerable path to a
footman. As it was, I would not have missed that walk for a good deal.
If you want an exact recipe for making such a road, take one part Mud
Pond, and dilute it with equal parts of Umbazookskus and
Apmoojenegamook; then send a family of musquash through to locate it,
look after the grades and culverts, and finish it to their minds, and
let a hurricane follow to do the fencing.

We had come out on a point extending into Apmoojenegamook, or
Chamberlain Lake, west of the outlet of Mud Pond, where there was a
broad, gravelly, and rocky shore, encumbered with bleached logs and
trees. We were rejoiced to see such dry things in that part of the
world. But at first we did not attend to dryness so much as to mud and
wetness. We all three walked into the lake up to our middle to wash
our clothes.

This was another noble lake, called twelve miles long, east and west;
if you add Telos Lake, which, since the dam was built, has been
connected with it by dead water, it will be twenty; and it is
apparently from a mile and a half to two miles wide. We were about
midway its length, on the south side. We could see the only clearing
in these parts, called the "Chamberlain Farm," with two or three log
buildings close together, on the opposite shore, some two and a half
miles distant. The smoke of our fire on the shore brought over two men
in a canoe from the farm, that being a common signal agreed on when
one wishes to cross. It took them about half an hour to come over, and
they had their labor for their pains this time. Even the English name
of the lake had a wild, woodland sound, reminding me of that
Chamberlain who killed Paugus at Lovewell's fight.

After putting on such dry clothes as we had, and hanging the others to
dry on the pole which the Indian arranged over the fire, we ate our
supper, and lay down on the pebbly shore with our feet to the fire,
without pitching our tent, making a thin bed of grass to cover the
stones.

Here first I was molested by the little midge called the no-see-em
(_Simulium nocivum_,--the latter word is not the Latin for no-see-em),
especially over the sand at the water's edge, for it is a kind of
sand-fly. You would not observe them but for their light-colored
wings. They are said to get under your clothes, and produce a
feverish heat, which I suppose was what I felt that night.

Our insect foes in this excursion, to sum them up, were, first,
mosquitoes, the chief ones, but only troublesome at night, or when we
sat still on shore by day; second, black flies (_Simulium molestum_),
which molested us more or less on the carries by day, as I have before
described, and sometimes in narrower parts of the stream. Harris
mistakes when he says that they are not seen after June. Third,
moose-flies. The big ones, Polis said, were called _Bososquasis_. It
is a stout, brown fly, much like a horse-fly, about eleven sixteenths
of an inch long, commonly rusty-colored beneath, with unspotted wings.
They can bite smartly, according to Polis, but are easily avoided or
killed. Fourth, the no-see-ems above mentioned. Of all these, the
mosquitoes are the only ones that troubled me seriously; but, as I was
provided with a wash and a veil, they have not made any deep
impression.

The Indian would not use our wash to protect his face and hands, for
fear that it would hurt his skin, nor had he any veil; he, therefore,
suffered from insects now, and throughout this journey, more than
either of us. I think that he suffered more than I did, when neither
of us was protected. He regularly tied up his face in his
handkerchief, and buried it in his blanket, and he now finally lay
down on the sand between us and the fire for the sake of the smoke,
which he tried to make enter his blanket about his face, and for the
same purpose he lit his pipe and breathed the smoke into his blanket.

As we lay thus on the shore, with nothing between us and the stars, I
inquired what stars he was acquainted with, or had names for. They
were the Great Bear, which he called by this name, the Seven Stars,
which he had no English name for, "the morning star," and "the north
star."

In the middle of the night, as indeed each time that we lay on the
shore of a lake, we heard the voice of the loon, loud and distinct,
from far over the lake. It is a very wild sound, quite in keeping with
the place and the circumstances of the traveler, and very unlike the
voice of a bird. I could lie awake for hours listening to it, it is so
thrilling. When camping in such a wilderness as this, you are prepared
to hear sounds from some of its inhabitants which will give voice to
its wildness. Some idea of bears, wolves, or panthers runs in your
head naturally, and when this note is first heard very far off at
midnight, as you lie with your ear to the ground,--the forest being
perfectly still about you, you take it for granted that it is the
voice of a wolf or some other wild beast, for only the last part is
heard when at a distance,--you conclude that it is a pack of wolves,
baying the moon, or, perchance, cantering after a moose. Strange as it
may seem, the "mooing" of a cow on a mountain-side comes nearest to my
idea of the voice of a bear; and this bird's note resembled that. It
was the unfailing and characteristic sound of those lakes. We were not
so lucky as to hear wolves howl, though that is an occasional
serenade. Some friends of mine, who two years ago went up the
Caucomgomoc River, were serenaded by wolves while moose-hunting by
moonlight. It was a sudden burst, as if a hundred demons had broke
loose,--a startling sound enough, which, if any, would make your hair
stand on end, and all was still again. It lasted but a moment, and
you'd have thought there were twenty of them, when probably there were
only two or three. They heard it twice only, and they said that it
gave expression to the wilderness which it lacked before. I heard of
some men who, while skinning a moose lately in those woods, were
driven off from the carcass by a pack of wolves, which ate it up.

This of the loon--I do not mean its laugh, but its looning,--is a
long-drawn call, as it were, sometimes singularly human to my
ear,--_hoo-hoo-ooooo_, like the hallooing of a man on a very high key,
having thrown his voice into his head. I have heard a sound exactly
like it when breathing heavily through my own nostrils, half awake at
ten at night, suggesting my affinity to the loon; as if its language
were but a dialect of my own, after all. Formerly, when lying awake at
midnight in those woods, I had listened to hear some words or
syllables of their language, but it chanced that I listened in vain
until I heard the cry of the loon. I have heard it occasionally on the
ponds of my native town, but there its wildness is not enhanced by the
surrounding scenery.

I was awakened at midnight by some heavy, low-flying bird, probably a
loon, flapping by close over my head, along the shore. So, turning the
other side of my half-clad body to the fire, I sought slumber again.

       *       *       *       *       *

     TUESDAY, July 28.

When we awoke, we found a heavy dew on our blankets. I lay awake very
early, and listened to the clear, shrill _ah, te te, te te, te_ of
the white-throated sparrow, repeated at short intervals, without the
least variation, for half an hour, as if it could not enough express
its happiness. Whether my companions heard it or not, I know not, but
it was a kind of matins to me, and the event of that forenoon.

It was a pleasant sunrise, and we had a view of the mountains in the
southeast. Ktaadn appeared about southeast by south. A double-topped
mountain, about southeast by east, and another portion of the same,
east-southeast. The last the Indian called Nerlumskeechticook, and
said that it was at the head of the East Branch, and we should pass
near it on our return that way.

We did some more washing in the lake this morning, and with our
clothes hung about on the dead trees and rocks, the shore looked like
washing-day at home. The Indian, taking the hint, borrowed the soap,
and, walking into the lake, washed his only cotton shirt on his
person, then put on his pants and let it dry on him.

I observed that he wore a cotton shirt, originally white, a greenish
flannel one over it, but no waistcoat, flannel drawers, and strong
linen or duck pants, which also had been white, blue woolen stockings,
cowhide boots, and a Kossuth hat. He carried no change of clothing,
but putting on a stout, thick jacket, which he laid aside in the
canoe, and seizing a full-sized axe, his gun and ammunition, and a
blanket, which would do for a sail or knapsack, if wanted, and
strapping on his belt, which contained a large sheath-knife, he walked
off at once, ready to be gone all summer. This looked very
independent; a few simple and effective tools, and no india-rubber
clothing. He was always the first ready to start in the morning, and
if it had not held some of our property, would not have been obliged
to roll up his blanket. Instead of carrying a large bundle of his own
extra clothing, etc., he brought back the greatcoats of moose tied up
in his blanket. I found that his outfit was the result of a long
experience, and in the main hardly to be improved on, unless by
washing and an extra shirt. Wanting a button here, he walked off to a
place where some Indians had recently encamped, and searched for one,
but I believe in vain.

Having softened our stiffened boots and shoes with the pork fat, the
usual disposition of what was left at breakfast, we crossed the lake
early, steering in a diagonal direction, northeasterly about four
miles, to the outlet, which was not to be discovered till we were
close to it. The Indian name, _Apmoojenegamook_, means lake that is
crossed, because the usual course lies across, and not along it. This
is the largest of the Allegash lakes, and was the first St. John water
that we floated on. It is shaped in the main like Chesuncook. There
are no mountains or high hills very near it. At Bangor we had been
told of a township many miles farther northwest; it was indicated to
us as containing the highest land thereabouts, where, by climbing a
particular tree in the forest, we could get a general idea of the
country. I have no doubt that the last was good advice, but we did not
go there. We did not intend to go far down the Allegash, but merely to
get a view of the great lakes which are its source, and then return
this way to the East Branch of the Penobscot. The water now, by good
rights, flowed northward, if it could be said to flow at all.

After reaching the middle of the lake, we found the waves as usual
pretty high, and the Indian warned my companion, who was nodding, that
he must not allow himself to fall asleep in the canoe lest he should
upset us; adding, that when Indians want to sleep in a canoe, they lie
down straight on the bottom. But in this crowded one that was
impossible. However, he said that he would nudge him if he saw him
nodding.

A belt of dead trees stood all around the lake, some far out in the
water, with others prostrate behind them, and they made the shore, for
the most part, almost inaccessible. This is the effect of the dam at
the outlet. Thus the natural sandy or rocky shore, with its green
fringe, was concealed and destroyed. We coasted westward along the
north side, searching for the outlet, about one quarter of a mile
distant from this savage-looking shore, on which the waves were
breaking violently, knowing that it might easily be concealed amid
this rubbish, or by the overlapping of the shore. It is remarkable how
little these important gates to a lake are blazoned. There is no
triumphal arch over the modest inlet or outlet, but at some
undistinguished point it trickles in or out through the uninterrupted
forest, almost as through a sponge.

We reached the outlet in about an hour, and carried over the dam
there, which is quite a solid structure, and about one quarter of a
mile farther there was a second dam. The reader will perceive that the
result of this particular damming about Chamberlain Lake is, that the
head-waters of the St. John are made to flow by Bangor. They have thus
dammed all the larger lakes, raising their broad surfaces many feet;
Moosehead, for instance, some forty miles long, with its steamer on
it; thus turning the forces of nature against herself, that they might
float their spoils out of the country. They rapidly run out of these
immense forests all the finer, and more accessible pine timber, and
then leave the bears to watch the decaying dams, not clearing nor
cultivating the land, nor making roads, nor building houses, but
leaving it a wilderness as they found it. In many parts, only these
dams remain, like deserted beaver-dams. Think how much land they have
flowed, without asking Nature's leave! When the State wishes to endow
an academy or university, it grants it a tract of forest land: one saw
represents an academy; a gang, a university.

The wilderness experiences a sudden rise of all her streams and lakes.
She feels ten thousand vermin gnawing at the base of her noblest
trees. Many combining drag them off, jarring over the roots of the
survivors, and tumble them into the nearest stream, till, the fairest
having fallen, they scamper off to ransack some new wilderness, and
all is still again. It is as when a migrating army of mice girdles a
forest of pines. The chopper fells trees from the same motive that the
mouse gnaws them,--to get his living. You tell me that he has a more
interesting family than the mouse. That is as it happens. He speaks of
a "berth" of timber, a good place for him to get into, just as a worm
might. When the chopper would praise a pine, he will commonly tell you
that the one he cut was so big that a yoke of oxen stood on its stump;
as if that were what the pine had grown for, to become the footstool
of oxen. In my mind's eye, I can see these unwieldy tame deer, with a
yoke binding them together, and brazen-tipped horns betraying their
servitude, taking their stand on the stump of each giant pine in
succession throughout this whole forest, and chewing their cud there,
until it is nothing but an ox-pasture, and run out at that. As if it
were good for the oxen, and some terebinthine or other medicinal
quality ascended into their nostrils. Or is their elevated position
intended merely as a symbol of the fact that the pastoral comes next
in order to the sylvan or hunter life?

The character of the logger's admiration is betrayed by his very mode
of expressing it. If he told all that was in his mind, he would say,
it was so big that I cut it down and then a yoke of oxen could stand
on its stump. He admires the log, the carcass or corpse, more than the
tree. Why, my dear sir, the tree might have stood on its own stump,
and a great deal more comfortably and firmly than a yoke of oxen can,
if you had not cut it down. What right have you to celebrate the
virtues of the man you murdered?

The Anglo-American can indeed cut down, and grub up all this waving
forest, and make a stump speech, and vote for Buchanan on its ruins,
but he cannot converse with the spirit of the tree he fells, he cannot
read the poetry and mythology which retire as he advances. He
ignorantly erases mythological tablets in order to print his handbills
and town-meeting warrants on them. Before he has learned his _a b c_
in the beautiful but mystic lore of the wilderness which Spenser and
Dante had just begun to read, he cuts it down, coins a _pine-tree_
shilling (as if to signify the pine's value to him), puts up a
_dee_strict schoolhouse, and introduces Webster's spelling-book.

Below the last dam, the river being swift and shallow, though broad
enough, we two walked about half a mile to lighten the canoe. I made
it a rule to carry my knapsack when I walked, and also to keep it tied
to a crossbar when in the canoe, that it might be found with the canoe
if we should upset.

I heard the dog-day locust here, and afterward on the carries, a sound
which I had associated only with more open, if not settled countries.
The area for locusts must be small in the Maine woods.

We were now fairly on the Allegash River, which name our Indian said
meant hemlock bark. These waters flow northward about one hundred
miles, at first very feebly, then southeasterly two hundred and fifty
more to the Bay of Fundy. After perhaps two miles of river, we entered
Heron Lake, called on the map _Pongokwahem_, scaring up forty or fifty
young _shecorways_, sheldrakes, at the entrance, which ran over the
water with great rapidity, as usual in a long line.

This was the fourth great lake, lying northwest and southeast, like
Chesuncook and most of the long lakes in that neighborhood, and,
judging from the map, it is about ten miles long. We had entered it on
the southwest side, and saw a dark mountain northeast over the lake,
not very far off nor high, which the Indian said was called Peaked
Mountain, and used by explorers to look for timber from. There was
also some other high land more easterly. The shores were in the same
ragged and unsightly condition, encumbered with dead timber, both
fallen and standing, as in the last lake, owing to the dam on the
Allegash below. Some low points or islands were almost drowned.

I saw something white a mile off on the water, which turned out to be
a great gull on a rock in the middle, which the Indian would have been
glad to kill and eat, but it flew away long before we were near; and
also a flock of summer ducks that were about the rock with it. I
asking him about herons, since this was Heron Lake, he said that he
found the blue heron's nests in the hardwood trees. I thought that I
saw a light-colored object move along the opposite or northern shore,
four or five miles distant. He did not know what it could be, unless
it were a moose, though he had never seen a white one; but he said
that he could distinguish a moose "anywhere on shore, clear across the
lake."

Rounding a point, we stood across a bay for a mile and a half or two
miles, toward a large island, three or four miles down the lake. We
met with ephemeræ (shadfly) midway, about a mile from the shore, and
they evidently fly over the whole lake. On Moosehead I had seen a
large devil's-needle half a mile from the shore, coming from the
middle of the lake, where it was three or four miles wide at least. It
had probably crossed. But at last, of course, you come to lakes so
large that an insect cannot fly across them; and this, perhaps, will
serve to distinguish a large lake from a small one.

We landed on the southeast side of the island, which was rather
elevated and densely wooded, with a rocky shore, in season for an
early dinner. Somebody had camped there not long before, and left the
frame on which they stretched a moose-hide, which our Indian
criticised severely, thinking it showed but little woodcraft. Here
were plenty of the shells of crayfish, or fresh-water lobsters, which
had been washed ashore, such as have given a name to some ponds and
streams. They are commonly four or five inches long. The Indian
proceeded at once to cut a canoe birch, slanted it up against another
tree on the shore, tying it with a withe, and lay down to sleep in its
shade.

When we were on the Caucomgomoc, he recommended to us a new way home,
the very one which we had first thought of, by the St. John. He even
said that it was easier, and would take but little more time than the
other, by the East Branch of the Penobscot, though very much farther
round; and taking the map, he showed where we should be each night,
for he was familiar with the route. According to his calculation, we
should reach the French settlements the next night after this, by
keeping northward down the Allegash, and when we got into the main St.
John the banks would be more or less settled all the way; as if that
were a recommendation. There would be but one or two falls, with short
carrying-places, and we should go down the stream very fast, even a
hundred miles a day, if the wind allowed; and he indicated where we
should carry over into Eel River to save a bend below Woodstock in New
Brunswick, and so into the Schoodic Lake, and thence to the
Mattawamkeag. It would be about three hundred and sixty miles to
Bangor this way, though only about one hundred and sixty by the
other; but in the former case we should explore the St. John from its
source through two thirds of its course, as well as the Schoodic Lake
and Mattawamkeag,--and we were again tempted to go that way. I feared,
however, that the banks of the St. John were too much settled. When I
asked him which course would take us through the wildest country, he
said the route by the East Branch. Partly from this consideration, as
also from its shortness, we resolved to adhere to the latter route,
and perhaps ascend Ktaadn on the way. We made this island the limit of
our excursion in this direction.

We had now seen the largest of the Allegash lakes. The next dam "was
about fifteen miles" farther north, down the Allegash, and it was dead
water so far. We had been told in Bangor of a man who lived alone, a
sort of hermit, at that dam, to take care of it, who spent his time
tossing a bullet from one hand to the other, for want of
employment,--as if we might want to call on him. This sort of
tit-for-tat intercourse between his two hands, bandying to and fro a
leaden subject, seems to have been his symbol for society.

This island, according to the map, was about a hundred and ten miles
in a straight line north-northwest from Bangor, and about ninety-nine
miles east-southeast from Quebec. There was another island visible
toward the north end of the lake, with an elevated clearing on it; but
we learned afterward that it was not inhabited, had only been used as
a pasture for cattle which summered in these woods, though our
informant said that there was a hut on the mainland near the outlet
of the lake. This unnaturally smooth-shaven, squarish spot, in the
midst of the otherwise uninterrupted forest, only reminded us how
uninhabited the country was. You would sooner expect to meet with a
bear than an ox in such a clearing. At any rate, it must have been a
surprise to the bears when they came across it. Such, seen far or
near, you know at once to be man's work, for Nature never does it. In
order to let in the light to the earth as on a lake, he clears off the
forest on the hillsides and plains, and sprinkles fine grass seed,
like an enchanter, and so carpets the earth with a firm sward.

Polis had evidently more curiosity respecting the few settlers in
those woods than we. If nothing was said, he took it for granted that
we wanted to go straight to the next log-hut. Having observed that we
came by the log huts at Chesuncook, and the blind Canadian's at the
Mud Pond carry, without stopping to communicate with the inhabitants,
he took occasion now to suggest that the usual way was, when you came
near a house, to go to it, and tell the inhabitants what you had seen
or heard, and then they tell you what they had seen; but we laughed,
and said that we had had enough of houses for the present, and had
come here partly to avoid them.

In the meanwhile, the wind, increasing, blew down the Indian's birch,
and created such a sea that we found ourselves prisoners on the
island, the nearest shore, which was the western, being perhaps a mile
distant, and we took the canoe out to prevent its drifting away. We
did not know but we should be compelled to spend the rest of the day
and the night there. At any rate, the Indian went to sleep again in
the shade of his birch, my companion busied himself drying his
plants, and I rambled along the shore westward, which was quite stony,
and obstructed with fallen, bleached, or drifted trees for four or
five rods in width. I found growing on this broad, rocky, and gravelly
shore the _Salix rostrata_, _discolor_, and _lucida_, _Ranunculus
recurvatus_, _Potentilla Norvegica_, _Scutellaria lateriflora_,
_Eupatorium purpureum_, _Aster Tradescanti_, _Mentha Canadensis_,
_Epilobium angustifolium_ (abundant), _Lycopus sinuatus_, _Solidago
lanceolata_, _Spiræa salicifolia_, _Antennaria margaraticea_,
_Prunella_, _Rumex Acetosella_, raspberries, wool-grass, _Onoclea_,
etc. The nearest trees were _Betula papyracea_ and _excelsa_, and
_Populus tremuloides_. I give these names because it was my farthest
northern point.

Our Indian said that he was a doctor, and could tell me some medicinal
use for every plant I could show him. I immediately tried him. He said
that the inner bark of the aspen (_Populus tremuloides_) was good for
sore eyes; and so with various other plants, proving himself as good
as his word. According to his account, he had acquired such knowledge
in his youth from a wise old Indian with whom he associated, and he
lamented that the present generation of Indians "had lost a great
deal."

He said that the caribou was a "very great runner," that there was
none about this lake now, though there used to be many, and pointing
to the belt of dead trees caused by the dams, he added, "No likum
stump,--when he sees that he scared."

Pointing southeasterly over the lake and distant forest, he observed,
"Me go Oldtown in three days." I asked how he would get over the
swamps and fallen trees. "Oh," said he, "in winter all covered, go
anywhere on snowshoes, right across lakes." When I asked how he went,
he said, "First I go Ktaadn, west side, then I go Millinocket, then
Pamadumcook, then Nicketow, then Lincoln, then Oldtown," or else he
went a shorter way by the Piscataquis. What a wilderness walk for a
man to take alone! None of your half-mile swamps, none of your
mile-wide woods merely, as on the skirts of our towns, without hotels,
only a dark mountain or a lake for guide-board and station, over
ground much of it impassable in summer!

It reminded me of Prometheus Bound. Here was traveling of the old
heroic kind over the unaltered face of nature. From the Allegash, or
Hemlock River, and Pongoquahem Lake, across great Apmoojenegamook, and
leaving the Nerlumskeechticook Mountain on his left, he takes his way
under the bear-haunted slopes of Souneunk and Ktaadn Mountains to
Pamadumcook, and Millinocket's inland seas (where often gulls'-eggs
may increase his store), and so on to the forks of the Nicketow
(_niasoseb_, "we alone Joseph," seeing what our folks see), ever
pushing the boughs of the fir and spruce aside, with his load of furs,
contending day and night, night and day, with the shaggy demon
vegetation, traveling through the mossy graveyard of trees. Or he
could go by "that rough tooth of the sea," Kineo, great source of
arrows and of spears to the ancients, when weapons of stone were used.
Seeing and hearing moose, caribou, bears, porcupines, lynxes, wolves,
and panthers. Places where he might live and die and never hear of
the United States, which make such a noise in the world,--never hear
of America, so called from the name of a European gentleman.

There is a lumberer's road called the Eagle Lake road, from the
Seboois to the east side of this lake. It may seem strange that any
road through such a wilderness should be passable, even in winter,
when the snow is three or four feet deep, but at that season, wherever
lumbering operations are actively carried on, teams are continually
passing on the single track, and it becomes as smooth almost as a
railway. I am told that in the Aroostook country the sleds are
required by law to be of one width (four feet), and sleighs must be
altered to fit the track, so that one runner may go in one rut and the
other follow the horse. Yet it is very bad turning out.

We had for some time seen a thunder-shower coming up from the west
over the woods of the island, and heard the muttering of the thunder,
though we were in doubt whether it would reach us; but now the
darkness rapidly increasing, and a fresh breeze rustling the forest,
we hastily put up the plants which we had been drying, and with one
consent made a rush for the tent material and set about pitching it. A
place was selected and stakes and pins cut in the shortest possible
time, and we were pinning it down lest it should be blown away, when
the storm suddenly burst over us.

As we lay huddled together under the tent, which leaked considerably
about the sides, with our baggage at our feet, we listened to some of
the grandest thunder which I ever heard,--rapid peals, round and
plump, bang, bang, bang, in succession, like artillery from some
fortress in the sky; and the lightning was proportionally brilliant.
The Indian said, "It must be good powder." All for the benefit of the
moose and us, echoing far over the concealed lakes. I thought it must
be a place which the thunder loved, where the lightning practiced to
keep its hand in, and it would do no harm to shatter a few pines. What
had become of the ephemeræ and devil's-needles then? Were they prudent
enough to seek harbor before the storm? Perhaps their motions might
guide the voyageur.

Looking out I perceived that the violent shower falling on the lake
had almost instantaneously flattened the waves,--the commander of that
fortress had smoothed it for us so,--and, it clearing off, we resolved
to start immediately, before the wind raised them again.

Going outside, I said that I saw clouds still in the southwest, and
heard thunder there. The Indian asked if the thunder went "lound"
(round), saying that if it did we should have more rain. I thought
that it did. We embarked, nevertheless, and paddled rapidly back
toward the dams. The white-throated sparrows on the shore were about,
singing, _Ah, te-e-e, te-e-e, te_, or else _ah, te-e-e, te-e-e,
te-e-e, te-e-e_.

At the outlet of Chamberlain Lake we were overtaken by another gusty
rain-storm, which compelled us to take shelter, the Indian under his
canoe on the bank, and we ran under the edge of the dam. However, we
were more scared than wet. From my covert I could see the Indian
peeping out from beneath his canoe to see what had become of the rain.
When we had taken our respective places thus once or twice, the rain
not coming down in earnest, we commenced rambling about the
neighborhood, for the wind had by this time raised such waves on the
lake that we could not stir, and we feared that we should be obliged
to camp there. We got an early supper on the dam and tried for fish
there, while waiting for the tumult to subside. The fishes were not
only few, but small and worthless, and the Indian declared that there
were no good fishes in the St. John's waters; that we must wait till
we got to the Penobscot waters.

At length, just before sunset, we set out again. It was a wild evening
when we coasted up the north side of this Apmoojenegamook Lake. One
thunder-storm was just over, and the waves which it had raised still
running with violence, and another storm was now seen coming up in the
southwest, far over the lake; but it might be worse in the morning,
and we wished to get as far as possible on our way up the lake while
we might. It blowed hard against the northern shore about an eighth of
a mile distant on our left, and there was just as much sea as our
shallow canoe would bear, without our taking unusual care. That which
we kept off, and toward which the waves were driving, was as dreary
and harborless a shore as you can conceive. For half a dozen rods in
width it was a perfect maze of submerged trees, all dead and bare and
bleaching, some standing half their original height, others prostrate,
and criss-across, above or beneath the surface, and mingled with them
were loose trees and limbs and stumps, beating about. Imagine the
wharves of the largest city in the world, decayed, and the earth and
planking washed away, leaving the spiles standing in loose order, but
often of twice the ordinary height, and mingled with and beating
against them the wreck of ten thousand navies, all their spars and
timbers, while there rises from the water's edge the densest and
grimmest wilderness, ready to supply more material when the former
fails, and you may get a faint idea of that coast. We could not have
landed if we would, without the greatest danger of being swamped; so
blow as it might, we must depend on coasting by it. It was twilight,
too, and that stormy cloud was advancing rapidly in our rear. It was a
pleasant excitement, yet we were glad to reach, at length, in the
dusk, the cleared shore of the Chamberlain Farm.

We landed on a low and thinly wooded point there, and while my
companions were pitching the tent, I ran up to the house to get some
sugar, our six pounds being gone;--it was no wonder they were, for
Polis had a sweet tooth. He would first fill his dipper nearly a third
full of sugar, and then add the coffee to it. Here was a clearing
extending back from the lake to a hilltop, with some dark-colored log
buildings and a storehouse in it, and half a dozen men standing in
front of the principal hut, greedy for news. Among them was the man
who tended the dam on the Allegash and tossed the bullet. He having
charge of the dams, and learning that we were going to Webster Stream
the next day, told me that some of their men, who were haying at Telos
Lake, had shut the dam at the canal there in order to catch trout, and
if we wanted more water to take us through the canal, we might raise
the gate, for he would like to have it raised. The Chamberlain Farm is
no doubt a cheerful opening in the woods, but such was the lateness
of the hour that it has left but a dusky impression on my mind. As I
have said, the influx of light merely is civilizing, yet I fancied
that they walked about on Sundays in their clearing somewhat as in a
prison-yard.

They were unwilling to spare more than four pounds of brown
sugar,--unlocking the storehouse to get it,--since they only kept a
little for such cases as this, and they charged twenty cents a pound
for it, which certainly it was worth to get it up there.

When I returned to the shore it was quite dark, but we had a rousing
fire to warm and dry us by, and a snug apartment behind it. The Indian
went up to the house to inquire after a brother who had been absent
hunting a year or two, and while another shower was beginning, I
groped about cutting spruce and arbor-vitæ twigs for a bed. I
preferred the arbor-vitæ on account of its fragrance, and spread it
particularly thick about the shoulders. It is remarkable with what
pure satisfaction the traveler in these woods will reach his
camping-ground on the eve of a tempestuous night like this, as if he
had got to his inn, and, rolling himself in his blanket, stretch
himself on his six-feet-by-two bed of dripping fir twigs, with a thin
sheet of cotton for roof, snug as a meadow-mouse in its nest.
Invariably our best nights were those when it rained, for then we were
not troubled with mosquitoes.

You soon come to disregard rain on such excursions, at least in the
summer, it is so easy to dry yourself, supposing a dry change of
clothing is not to be had. You can much sooner dry you by such a fire
as you can make in the woods than in anybody's kitchen, the fireplace
is so much larger, and wood so much more abundant. A shed-shaped tent
will catch and reflect the heat like a Yankee baker, and you may be
drying while you are sleeping.

Some who have leaky roofs in the towns may have been kept awake, but
we were soon lulled asleep by a steady, soaking rain, which lasted all
night. To-night, the rain not coming at once with violence, the twigs
were soon dried by the reflected heat.

       *       *       *       *       *

     WEDNESDAY, July 29.

When we awoke it had done raining, though it was still cloudy. The
fire was put out, and the Indian's boots, which stood under the eaves
of the tent, were half full of water. He was much more improvident in
such respects than either of us, and he had to thank us for keeping
his powder dry. We decided to cross the lake at once, before
breakfast, or while we could; and before starting I took the bearing
of the shore which we wished to strike, S. S. E. about three miles
distant, lest a sudden misty rain should conceal it when we were
midway. Though the bay in which we were was perfectly quiet and
smooth, we found the lake already wide awake outside, but not
dangerously or unpleasantly so; nevertheless, when you get out on one
of those lakes in a canoe like this, you do not forget that you are
completely at the mercy of the wind, and a fickle power it is. The
playful waves may at any time become too rude for you in their sport,
and play right on over you. We saw a few _shecorways_ and a fish hawk
thus early, and after much steady paddling and dancing over the dark
waves of Apmoojenegamook, we found ourselves in the neighborhood of
the southern land, heard the waves breaking on it, and turned our
thoughts wholly to that side. After coasting eastward along this shore
a mile or two, we breakfasted on a rocky point, the first convenient
place that offered.

It was well enough that we crossed thus early, for the waves now ran
quite high, and we should have been obliged to go round somewhat, but
beyond this point we had comparatively smooth water. You can commonly
go along one side or the other of a lake, when you cannot cross it.

The Indian was looking at the hard-wood ridges from time to time, and
said that he would like to buy a few hundred acres somewhere about
this lake, asking our advice. It was to buy as near the crossing-place
as possible.

My companion and I, having a minute's discussion on some point of
ancient history, were amused by the attitude which the Indian, who
could not tell what we were talking about, assumed. He constituted
himself umpire, and, judging by our air and gesture, he very seriously
remarked from time to time, "you beat," or "he beat."

Leaving a spacious bay, a northeasterly prolongation of Chamberlain
Lake, on our left, we entered through a short strait into a small lake
a couple of miles over, called on the map _Telasinis_, but the Indian
had no distinct name for it, and thence into _Telos_ Lake, which he
called _Paytaywecomgomoc_, or Burnt-Ground Lake. This curved round
toward the northeast, and may have been three or four miles long as
we paddled. He had not been here since 1825. He did not know what
Telos meant; thought it was not Indian. He used the word
"_spokelogan_" (for an inlet in the shore which led nowhere), and when
I asked its meaning said that there was "no Indian in 'em." There was
a clearing, with a house and barn, on the southwest shore, temporarily
occupied by some men who were getting the hay, as we had been told;
also a clearing for a pasture on a hill on the west side of the lake.

We landed on a rocky point on the northeast side, to look at some red
pines (_Pinus resinosa_), the first we had noticed, and get some
cones, for our few which grow in Concord do not bear any.

The outlet from the lake into the East Branch of the Penobscot is an
artificial one, and it was not very apparent where it was exactly, but
the lake ran curving far up northeasterly into two narrow valleys or
ravines, as if it had for a long time been groping its way toward the
Penobscot waters, or remembered when it anciently flowed there; by
observing where the horizon was lowest, and following the longest of
these, we at length reached the dam, having come about a dozen miles
from the last camp. Somebody had left a line set for trout, and the
jack knife with which the bait had been cut on the dam beside it, an
evidence that man was near, and on a deserted log close by a loaf of
bread baked in a Yankee baker. These proved the property of a solitary
hunter, whom we soon met, and canoe and gun and traps were not far
off. He told us that it was twenty miles farther on our route to the
foot of Grand Lake, where you could catch as many trout as you
wanted, and that the first house below the foot of the lake, on the
East Branch, was Hunt's, about forty-five miles farther; though there
was one about a mile and a half up Trout Stream, some fifteen miles
ahead, but it was rather a blind route to it. It turned out that,
though the stream was in our favor, we did not reach the next house
till the morning of the third day after this. The nearest permanently
inhabited house behind us was now a dozen miles distant, so that the
interval between the two nearest houses on our route was about sixty
miles.

This hunter, who was a quite small, sunburnt man, having already
carried his canoe over, and baked his loaf, had nothing so interesting
and pressing to do as to observe our transit. He had been out a month
or more alone. How much more wild and adventurous his life than that
of the hunter in Concord woods, who gets back to his house and the
mill-dam every night! Yet they in the towns who have wild oats to sow
commonly sow them on cultivated and comparatively exhausted ground.
And as for the rowdy world in the large cities, so little enterprise
has it that it never adventures in this direction, but like vermin
clubs together in alleys and drinking-saloons, its highest
accomplishment, perchance, to run beside a fire-engine and throw
brickbats. But the former is comparatively an independent and
successful man, getting his living in a way that he likes, without
disturbing his human neighbors. How much more respectable also is the
life of the solitary pioneer or settler in these, or any
woods,--having real difficulties, not of his own creation, drawing his
subsistence directly from nature,--than that of the helpless
multitudes in the towns who depend on gratifying the extremely
artificial wants of society and are thrown out of employment by hard
times!

Here for the first time we found the raspberries really plenty,--that
is, on passing the height of land between the Allegash and the East
Branch of the Penobscot; the same was true of the blueberries.

Telos Lake, the head of the St. John on this side, and Webster Pond,
the head of the East Branch of the Penobscot, are only about a mile
apart, and they are connected by a ravine, in which but little digging
was required to make the water of the former, which is the highest,
flow into the latter. This canal, which is something less than a mile
long and about four rods wide, was made a few years before my first
visit to Maine. Since then the lumber of the upper Allegash and its
lakes has been run down the Penobscot, that is, up the Allegash, which
here consists principally of a chain of large and stagnant lakes,
whose thoroughfares, or river-links, have been made nearly equally
stagnant by damming, and then down the Penobscot. The rush of the
water has produced such changes in the canal that it has now the
appearance of a very rapid mountain stream flowing through a ravine,
and you would not suspect that any digging had been required to
persuade the waters of the St. John to flow into the Penobscot here.
It was so winding that one could see but little way down.

It is stated by Springer, in his "Forest Life," that the cause of this
canal being dug was this: according to the treaty of 1842 with Great
Britain, it was agreed that all the timber run down the St. John,
which rises in Maine, "when within the Province of New Brunswick ...
shall be dealt with as if it were the produce of the said Province,"
which was thought by our side to mean that it should be free from
taxation. Immediately, the Province, wishing to get something out of
the Yankees, levied a duty on all the timber that passed down the St.
John; but to satisfy its own subjects "made a corresponding discount
on the stumpage charged those hauling timber from the crown lands."
The result was that the Yankees made the St. John run the other way,
or down the Penobscot, so that the Province lost both its duty and its
water, while the Yankees, being greatly enriched, had reason to thank
it for the suggestion.

It is wonderful how well watered this country is. As you paddle across
a lake, bays will be pointed out to you, by following up which, and
perhaps the tributary stream which empties in, you may, after a short
portage, or possibly, at some seasons, none at all, get into another
river, which empties far away from the one you are on. Generally, you
may go in any direction in a canoe, by making frequent but not very
long portages. You are only realizing once more what all nature
distinctly remembers here, for no doubt the waters flowed thus in a
former geological period, and, instead of being a lake country, it was
an archipelago. It seems as if the more youthful and impressible
streams can hardly resist the numerous invitations and temptations to
leave their native beds and run down their neighbors' channels. Your
carries are often over half-submerged ground, on the dry channels of a
former period. In carrying from one river to another, I did not go
over such high and rocky ground as in going about the falls of the
same river. For in the former case I was once lost in a swamp, as I
have related, and, again, found an artificial canal which appeared to
be natural.

I remember once dreaming of pushing a canoe up the rivers of Maine,
and that, when I had got so high that the channels were dry, I kept on
through the ravines and gorges, nearly as well as before, by pushing a
little harder, and now it seemed to me that my dream was partially
realized.

Wherever there is a channel for water, there is a road for the canoe.
The pilot of the steamer which ran from Oldtown up the Penobscot in
1854 told me that she drew only fourteen inches, and would run easily
in two feet of water, though they did not like to. It is said that
some Western steamers can run on a heavy dew, whence we can imagine
what a canoe may do. Montresor, who was sent from Quebec by the
English about 1760 to explore the route to the Kennebec, over which
Arnold afterward passed, supplied the Penobscot near its source with
water by opening the beaver-dams, and he says, "This is often done."
He afterward states that the Governor of Canada had forbidden to
molest the beaver about the outlet of the Kennebec from Moosehead
Lake, on account of the service which their dams did by raising the
water for navigation.

This canal, so called, was a considerable and extremely rapid and
rocky river. The Indian decided that there was water enough in it
without raising the dam, which would only make it more violent, and
that he would run down it alone, while we carried the greater part of
the baggage. Our provision being about half consumed, there was the
less left in the canoe. We had thrown away the pork-keg, and wrapt its
contents in birch bark, which is the unequaled wrapping-paper of the
woods.

Following a moist trail through the forest, we reached the head of
Webster Pond about the same time with the Indian, notwithstanding the
velocity with which he moved, our route being the most direct. The
Indian name of Webster Stream, of which this pond is the source, is,
according to him, _Madunkchunk_, _i. e._, Height of Land, and of the
pond, _Madunkchunk-gamooc_, or Height of Land Pond. The latter was two
or three miles long. We passed near a pine on its shore which had been
splintered by lightning, perhaps the day before. This was the first
proper East Branch Penobscot water that we came to.

At the outlet of Webster Lake was another dam, at which we stopped and
picked raspberries, while the Indian went down the stream a half-mile
through the forest, to see what he had got to contend with. There was
a deserted log camp here, apparently used the previous winter, with
its "hovel" or barn for cattle. In the hut was a large fir twig bed,
raised two feet from the floor, occupying a large part of the single
apartment, a long narrow table against the wall, with a stout log
bench before it, and above the table a small window, the only one
there was, which admitted a feeble light. It was a simple and strong
fort erected against the cold, and suggested what valiant trencher
work had been done there. I discovered one or two curious wooden
traps, which had not been used for a long time, in the woods near by.
The principal part consisted of a long and slender pole.

We got our dinner on the shore, on the upper side of the dam. As we
were sitting by our fire, concealed by the earth bank of the dam, a
long line of sheldrake, half-grown, came waddling over it from the
water below, passing within about a rod of us, so that we could almost
have caught them in our hands. They were very abundant on all the
streams and lakes which we visited, and every two or three hours they
would rush away in a long string over the water before us, twenty to
fifty of them at once, rarely ever flying, but running with great
rapidity up or down the stream, even in the midst of the most violent
rapids, and apparently as fast up as down, or else crossing
diagonally, the old, as it appeared, behind, and driving them, and
flying to the front from time to time, as if to direct them. We also
saw many small black dippers, which behaved in a similar manner, and,
once or twice, a few black ducks.

An Indian at Oldtown had told us that we should be obliged to carry
ten miles between Telos Lake on the St. John and Second Lake on the
East Branch of the Penobscot; but the lumberers whom we met assured us
that there would not be more than a mile of carry. It turned out that
the Indian, who had lately been over this route, was nearest right, as
far as we were concerned. However, if one of us could have assisted
the Indian in managing the canoe in the rapids, we might have run the
greater part of the way; but as he was alone in the management of the
canoe in such places, we were obliged to walk the greater part. I did
not feel quite ready to try such an experiment on Webster Stream,
which has so bad a reputation. According to my observation, a batteau,
properly manned, shoots rapids as a matter of course, which a single
Indian with a canoe carries round.

My companion and I carried a good part of the baggage on our
shoulders, while the Indian took that which would be least injured by
wet in the canoe. We did not know when we should see him again, for he
had not been this way since the canal was cut, nor for more than
thirty years. He agreed to stop when he got to smooth water, come up
and find our path if he could, and halloo for us, and after waiting a
reasonable time go on and try again,--and we were to look out in like
manner for him.

He commenced by running through the sluiceway and over the dam, as
usual, standing up in his tossing canoe, and was soon out of sight
behind a point in a wild gorge. This Webster Stream is well known to
lumbermen as a difficult one. It is exceedingly rapid and rocky, and
also shallow, and can hardly be considered navigable, unless that may
mean that what is launched in it is sure to be carried swiftly down
it, though it may be dashed to pieces by the way. It is somewhat like
navigating a thunder-spout. With commonly an irresistible force urging
you on, you have got to choose your own course each moment, between
the rocks and shallows, and to get into it, moving forward always with
the utmost possible moderation, and often holding on, if you can, that
you may inspect the rapids before you.

By the Indian's direction we took an old path on the south side,
which appeared to keep down the stream, though at a considerable
distance from it, cutting off bends, perhaps to Second Lake, having
first taken the course from the map with a compass, which was
northeasterly, for safety. It was a wild wood-path, with a few tracks
of oxen which had been driven over it, probably to some old camp
clearing, for pasturage, mingled with the tracks of moose which had
lately used it. We kept on steadily for about an hour without putting
down our packs, occasionally winding around or climbing over a fallen
tree, for the most part far out of sight and hearing of the river;
till, after walking about three miles, we were glad to find that the
path came to the river again at an old camp ground, where there was a
small opening in the forest, at which we paused. Swiftly as the
shallow and rocky river ran here, a continuous rapid with dancing
waves, I saw, as I sat on the shore, a long string of sheldrakes,
which something scared, run up the opposite side of the stream by me,
with the same ease that they commonly did down it, just touching the
surface of the waves, and getting an impulse from them as they flowed
from under them; but they soon came back, driven by the Indian, who
had fallen a little behind us on account of the windings. He shot
round a point just above, and came to land by us with considerable
water in his canoe. He had found it, as he said, "very strong water,"
and had been obliged to land once before to empty out what he had
taken in. He complained that it strained him to paddle so hard in
order to keep his canoe straight in its course, having no one in the
bows to aid him, and, shallow as it was, said that it would be no
joke to upset there, for the force of the water was such that he had
as lief I would strike him over the head with a paddle as have that
water strike him. Seeing him come out of that gap was as if you should
pour water down an inclined and zigzag trough, then drop a nutshell
into it, and, taking a short cut to the bottom, get there in time to
see it come out, notwithstanding the rush and tumult, right side up,
and only partly full of water.

After a moment's breathing-space, while I held his canoe, he was soon
out of sight again around another bend, and we, shouldering our packs,
resumed our course.

We did not at once fall into our path again, but made our way with
difficulty along the edge of the river, till at length, striking
inland through the forest, we recovered it. Before going a mile we
heard the Indian calling to us. He had come up through the woods and
along the path to find us, having reached sufficiently smooth water to
warrant his taking us in. The shore was about one fourth of a mile
distant, through a dense, dark forest, and as he led us back to it,
winding rapidly about to the right and left, I had the curiosity to
look down carefully, and found that he was following his steps
backward. I could only occasionally perceive his trail in the moss,
and yet he did not appear to look down nor hesitate an instant, but
led us out exactly to his canoe. This surprised me; for without a
compass, or the sight or noise of the river to guide us, we could not
have kept our course many minutes, and could have retraced our steps
but a short distance, with a great deal of pains and very slowly,
using a laborious circumspection. But it was evident that he could go
back through the forest wherever he had been during the day.

After this rough walking in the dark woods it was an agreeable change
to glide down the rapid river in the canoe once more. This river,
which was about the size of our Assabet (in Concord), though still
very swift, was almost perfectly smooth here, and showed a very
visible declivity, a regularly inclined plane, for several miles, like
a mirror set a little aslant, on which we coasted down. This very
obvious regular descent, particularly plain when I regarded the
water-line against the shores, made a singular impression on me, which
the swiftness of our motion probably enhanced, so that we seemed to be
gliding down a much steeper declivity than we were, and that we could
not save ourselves from rapids and falls if we should suddenly come to
them. My companion did not perceive this slope, but I have a
surveyor's eyes, and I satisfied myself that it was no ocular
illusion. You could tell at a glance on approaching such a river which
way the water flowed, though you might perceive no motion. I observed
the angle at which a level line would strike the surface, and
calculated the amount of fall in a rod, which did not need to be
remarkably great to produce this effect.

It was very exhilarating, and the perfection of traveling, quite
unlike floating on our dead Concord River, the coasting down this
inclined mirror, which was now and then gently winding, down a
mountain, indeed, between two evergreen forests, edged with lofty dead
white pines, sometimes slanted half-way over the stream, and destined
soon to bridge it. I saw some monsters there, nearly destitute of
branches, and scarcely diminishing in diameter for eighty or ninety
feet.

As we thus swept along, our Indian repeated in a deliberate and
drawling tone the words "Daniel Webster, great lawyer," apparently
reminded of him by the name of the stream, and he described his
calling on him once in Boston, at what he supposed was his
boarding-house. He had no business with him, but merely went to pay
his respects, as we should say. In answer to our questions, he
described his person well enough. It was on the day after Webster
delivered his Bunker Hill oration, which I believe Polis heard. The
first time he called he waited till he was tired without seeing him,
and then went away. The next time, he saw him go by the door of the
room in which he was waiting several times, in his shirt-sleeves,
without noticing him. He thought that if he had come to see Indians,
they would not have treated him so. At length, after very long delay,
he came in, walked toward him, and asked in a loud voice, gruffly,
"What do you want?" and he, thinking at first, by the motion of his
hand, that he was going to strike him, said to himself, "You'd better
take care; if you try that I shall know what to do." He did not like
him, and declared that all he said "was not worth talk about a
musquash." We suggested that probably Mr. Webster was very busy, and
had a great many visitors just then.

Coming to falls and rapids, our easy progress was suddenly terminated.
The Indian went alongshore to inspect the water, while we climbed over
the rocks, picking berries. The peculiar growth of blueberries on the
tops of large rocks here made the impression of high land, and indeed
this was the Height-of-Land Stream. When the Indian came back, he
remarked, "You got to walk; ver strong water." So, taking out his
canoe, he launched it again below the falls, and was soon out of
sight. At such times he would step into the canoe, take up his paddle,
and, with an air of mystery, start off, looking far down-stream, and
keeping his own counsel, as if absorbing all the intelligence of
forest and stream into himself; but I sometimes detected a little fun
in his face, which could yield to my sympathetic smile, for he was
thoroughly good-humored. We meanwhile scrambled along the shore with
our packs, without any path. This was the last of _our_ boating for
the day.

The prevailing rock here was a kind of slate, standing on its edges,
and my companion, who was recently from California, thought it exactly
like that in which the gold is found, and said that if he had had a
pan he would have liked to wash a little of the sand here.

The Indian now got along much faster than we, and waited for us from
time to time. I found here the only cool spring that I drank at
anywhere on this excursion, a little water filling a hollow in the
sandy bank. It was a quite memorable event, and due to the elevation
of the country, for wherever else we had been the water in the rivers
and the streams emptying in was dead and warm, compared with that of a
mountainous region. It was very bad walking along the shore over
fallen and drifted trees and bushes, and rocks, from time to time
swinging ourselves round over the water, or else taking to a gravel
bar or going inland. At one place, the Indian being ahead, I was
obliged to take off all my clothes in order to ford a small but deep
stream emptying in, while my companion, who was inland, found a rude
bridge, high up in the woods, and I saw no more of him for some time.
I saw there very fresh moose tracks, found a new goldenrod to me
(perhaps _Solidago thyrsoidea_), and I passed one white pine log,
which had lodged, in the forest near the edge of the stream, which was
quite five feet in diameter at the butt. Probably its size detained
it.

Shortly after this I overtook the Indian at the edge of some burnt
land, which extended three or four miles at least, beginning about
three miles above Second Lake, which we were expecting to reach that
night, and which is about ten miles from Telos Lake. This burnt region
was still more rocky than before, but, though comparatively open, we
could not yet see the lake. Not having seen my companion for some
time, I climbed, with the Indian, a singular high rock on the edge of
the river, forming a narrow ridge only a foot or two wide at top, in
order to look for him; and, after calling many times, I at length
heard him answer from a considerable distance inland, he having taken
a trail which led off from the river, perhaps directly to the lake,
and was now in search of the river again. Seeing a much higher rock,
of the same character, about one third of a mile farther east, or
down-stream, I proceeded toward it, through the burnt land, in order
to look for the lake from its summit, supposing that the Indian would
keep down the stream in his canoe, and hallooing all the while that my
companion might join me on the way. Before we came together I noticed
where a moose, which possibly I had scared by my shouting, had
apparently just run along a large rotten trunk of a pine, which made
a bridge, thirty or forty feet long, over a hollow, as convenient for
him as for me. The tracks were as large as those of an ox, but an ox
could not have crossed there. This burnt land was an exceedingly wild
and desolate region. Judging by the weeds and sprouts, it appeared to
have been burnt about two years before. It was covered with charred
trunks, either prostrate or standing, which crocked our clothes and
hands, and we could not easily have distinguished a bear there by his
color. Great shells of trees, sometimes unburnt without, or burnt on
one side only, but black within, stood twenty or forty feet high. The
fire had run up inside, as in a chimney, leaving the sap-wood.
Sometimes we crossed a rocky ravine fifty feet wide, on a fallen
trunk; and there were great fields of fire-weed (_Epilobium
angustifolium_) on all sides, the most extensive that I ever saw,
which presented great masses of pink. Intermixed with these were
blueberry and raspberry bushes.

Having crossed a second rocky ridge like the first, when I was
beginning to ascend the third, the Indian, whom I had left on the
shore some fifty rods behind, beckoned to me to come to him, but I
made sign that I would first ascend the highest rock before me, whence
I expected to see the lake. My companion accompanied me to the top.
This was formed just like the others. Being struck with the perfect
parallelism of these singular rock hills, however much one might be in
advance of another, I took out my compass and found that they lay
northwest and southeast, the rock being on its edge, and sharp edges
they were. This one, to speak from memory, was perhaps a third of a
mile in length, but quite narrow, rising gradually from the northwest
to the height of about eighty feet, but steep on the southeast end.
The southwest side was as steep as an ordinary roof, or as we could
safely climb; the northeast was an abrupt precipice from which you
could jump clean to the bottom, near which the river flowed; while the
level top of the ridge, on which you walked along, was only from one
to three or four feet in width. For a rude illustration, take the half
of a pear cut in two lengthwise, lay it on its flat side, the stem to
the northwest, and then halve it vertically in the direction of its
length, keeping the southwest half. Such was the general form.

There was a remarkable series of these great rock-waves revealed by
the burning; breakers, as it were. No wonder that the river that found
its way through them was rapid and obstructed by falls. No doubt the
absence of soil on these rocks, or its dryness where there was any,
caused this to be a very thorough burning. We could see the lake over
the woods, two or three miles ahead, and that the river made an abrupt
turn southward around the northwest end of the cliff on which we
stood, or a little above us, so that we had cut off a bend, and that
there was an important fall in it a short distance below us. I could
see the canoe a hundred rods behind, but now on the opposite shore,
and supposed that the Indian had concluded to take out and carry round
some bad rapids on that side, and that that might be what he had
beckoned to me for; but after waiting a while I could still see
nothing of him, and I observed to my companion that I wondered where
he was, though I began to suspect that he had gone inland to look for
the lake from some hilltop on that side, as we had done. This proved
to be the case; for after I had started to return to the canoe, I
heard a faint halloo, and descried him on the top of a distant rocky
hill on that side. But as, after a long time had elapsed, I still saw
his canoe in the same place, and he had not returned to it, and
appeared in no hurry to do so, and, moreover, as I remembered that he
had previously beckoned to me, I thought that there might be something
more to delay him than I knew, and began to return northwest, along
the ridge, toward the angle in the river. My companion, who had just
been separated from us, and had even contemplated the necessity of
camping alone, wishing to husband his steps, and yet to keep with us,
inquired where I was going; to which I answered that I was going far
enough back to communicate with the Indian, and that then I thought we
had better go along the shore together, and keep him in sight.

When we reached the shore, the Indian appeared from out the woods on
the opposite side, but on account of the roar of the water it was
difficult to communicate with him. He kept along the shore westward to
his canoe, while we stopped at the angle where the stream turned
southward around the precipice. I again said to my companion that we
would keep along the shore and keep the Indian in sight. We started to
do so, being close together, the Indian behind us having launched his
canoe again, but just then I saw the latter, who had crossed to our
side, forty or fifty rods behind, beckoning to me, and I called to my
companion, who had just disappeared behind large rocks at the point
of the precipice, three or four rods before me, on his way down the
stream, that I was going to help the Indian a moment. I did
so,--helped get the canoe over a fall, lying with my breast over a
rock, and holding one end while he received it below,--and within ten
or fifteen minutes at most I was back again at the point where the
river turned southward, in order to catch up with my companion, while
Polis glided down the river alone, parallel with me. But to my
surprise, when I rounded the precipice, though the shore was bare of
trees, without rocks, for a quarter of a mile at least, my companion
was not to be seen. It was as if he had sunk into the earth. This was
the more unaccountable to me, because I knew that his feet were, since
our swamp walk, very sore, and that he wished to keep with the party;
and besides this was very bad walking, climbing over or about the
rocks. I hastened along, hallooing and searching for him, thinking he
might be concealed behind a rock, yet doubting if he had not taken the
other side of the precipice, but the Indian had got along still faster
in his canoe, till he was arrested by the falls, about a quarter of a
mile below. He then landed, and said that we could go no farther that
night. The sun was setting, and on account of falls and rapids we
should be obliged to leave this river and carry a good way into
another farther east. The first thing then was to find my companion,
for I was now very much alarmed about him, and I sent the Indian along
the shore down-stream, which began to be covered with unburnt wood
again just below the falls, while I searched backward about the
precipice which we had passed. The Indian showed some unwillingness
to exert himself, complaining that he was very tired, in consequence
of his day's work, that it had strained him very much getting down so
many rapids alone; but he went off calling somewhat like an owl. I
remembered that my companion was near-sighted, and I feared that he
had either fallen from the precipice, or fainted and sunk down amid
the rocks beneath it. I shouted and searched above and below this
precipice in the twilight till I could not see, expecting nothing less
than to find his body beneath it. For half an hour I anticipated and
believed only the worst. I thought what I should do the next day if I
did not find him, what I _could_ do in such a wilderness, and how his
relatives would feel, if I should return without him. I felt that if
he were really lost away from the river there, it would be a desperate
undertaking to find him; and where were they who could help you? What
would it be to raise the country, where there were only two or three
camps, twenty or thirty miles apart, and no road, and perhaps nobody
at home? Yet we must try the harder, the less the prospect of success.

I rushed down from this precipice to the canoe in order to fire the
Indian's gun, but found that my companion had the caps. I was still
thinking of getting it off when the Indian returned. He had not found
him, but he said that he had seen his tracks once or twice along the
shore. This encouraged me very much. He objected to firing the gun,
saying that if my companion heard it, which was not likely, on account
of the roar of the stream, it would tempt him to come toward us, and
he might break his neck in the dark. For the same reason we refrained
from lighting a fire on the highest rock. I proposed that we should
both keep down the stream to the lake, or that I should go at any
rate, but the Indian said: "No use, can't do anything in the dark;
come morning, then we find 'em. No harm,--he make 'em camp. No bad
animals here, no gristly bears, such as in California, where he's
been,--warm night,--he well off as you and I." I considered that if he
was well he could do without us. He had just lived eight years in
California, and had plenty of experience with wild beasts and wilder
men, was peculiarly accustomed to make journeys of great length; but
if he were sick or dead, he was near where we were. The darkness in
the woods was by this so thick that it alone decided the question. We
must camp where we were. I knew that he had his knapsack, with
blankets and matches, and, if well, would fare no worse than we,
except that he would have no supper nor society.

This side of the river being so encumbered with rocks, we crossed to
the eastern or smoother shore, and proceeded to camp there, within two
or three rods of the falls. We pitched no tent, but lay on the sand,
putting a few handfuls of grass and twigs under us, there being no
evergreen at hand. For fuel we had some of the charred stumps. Our
various bags of provisions had got quite wet in the rapids, and I
arranged them about the fire to dry. The fall close by was the
principal one on this stream, and it shook the earth under us. It was
a cool, because dewy, night; the more so, probably, owing to the
nearness of the falls. The Indian complained a good deal, and thought
afterward that he got a cold there which occasioned a more serious
illness. We were not much troubled by mosquitoes at any rate. I lay
awake a good deal from anxiety, but, unaccountably to myself, was at
length comparatively at ease respecting him. At first I had
apprehended the worst, but now I had little doubt but that I should
find him in the morning. From time to time I fancied that I heard his
voice calling through the roar of the falls from the opposite side of
the river; but it is doubtful if we could have heard him across the
stream there. Sometimes I doubted whether the Indian had really seen
his tracks, since he manifested an unwillingness to make much of a
search, and then my anxiety returned.

It was the most wild and desolate region we had camped in, where, if
anywhere, one might expect to meet with befitting inhabitants, but I
heard only the squeak of a nighthawk flitting over. The moon in her
first quarter, in the fore part of the night, setting over the bare
rocky hills garnished with tall, charred, and hollow stumps or shells
of trees, served to reveal the desolation.

       *       *       *       *       *

     THURSDAY, July 30.

I aroused the Indian early this morning to go in search of our
companion, expecting to find him within a mile or two, farther down
the stream. The Indian wanted his breakfast first, but I reminded him
that my companion had had neither breakfast nor supper. We were
obliged first to carry our canoe and baggage over into another stream,
the main East Branch, about three fourths of a mile distant, for
Webster Stream was no farther navigable. We went twice over this
carry, and the dewy bushes wet us through like water up to the
middle; I hallooed in a high key from time to time, though I had
little expectation that I could be heard over the roar of the rapids,
and, moreover, we were necessarily on the opposite side of the stream
to him. In going over this portage the last time, the Indian, who was
before me with the canoe on his head, stumbled and fell heavily once,
and lay for a moment silent, as if in pain. I hastily stepped forward
to help him, asking if he was much hurt, but after a moment's pause,
without replying, he sprang up and went forward. He was all the way
subject to taciturn fits, but they were harmless ones.

We had launched our canoe and gone but little way down the East
Branch, when I heard an answering shout from my companion, and soon
after saw him standing on a point where there was a clearing a quarter
of a mile below, and the smoke of his fire was rising near by. Before
I saw him I naturally shouted again and again, but the Indian curtly
remarked, "He hears you," as if once was enough. It was just below the
mouth of Webster Stream. When we arrived, he was smoking his pipe, and
said that he had passed a pretty comfortable night, though it was
rather cold, on account of the dew.

It appeared that when we stood together the previous evening, and I
was shouting to the Indian across the river, he, being near-sighted,
had not seen the Indian nor his canoe, and when I went back to the
Indian's assistance, did not see which way I went, and supposed that
we were below and not above him, and so, making haste to catch up, he
ran away from us. Having reached this clearing, a mile or more below
our camp, the night overtook him, and he made a fire in a little
hollow, and lay down by it in his blanket, still thinking that we were
ahead of him. He thought it likely that he had heard the Indian call
once the evening before, but mistook it for an owl. He had seen one
botanical rarity before it was dark,--pure white _Epilobium
angustifolium_ amidst the fields of pink ones, in the burnt lands. He
had already stuck up the remnant of a lumberer's shirt, found on the
point, on a pole by the waterside, for a signal, and attached a note
to it, to inform us that he had gone on to the lake, and that if he
did not find us there, he would be back in a couple of hours. If he
had not found us soon, he had some thoughts of going back in search of
the solitary hunter whom we had met at Telos Lake, ten miles behind,
and, if successful, hire him to take him to Bangor. But if this hunter
had moved as fast as we, he would have been twenty miles off by this
time, and who could guess in what direction? It would have been like
looking for a needle in a haymow, to search for him in these woods. He
had been considering how long he could live on berries alone.

We substituted for his note a card containing our names and
destination, and the date of our visit, which Polis neatly inclosed in
a piece of birch bark to keep it dry. This has probably been read by
some hunter or explorer ere this.

We all had good appetites for the breakfast which we made haste to
cook here, and then, having partially dried our clothes, we glided
swiftly down the winding stream toward Second Lake.

As the shores became flatter with frequent gravel and sand-bars, and
the stream more winding in the lower land near the lake, elms and ash
trees made their appearance; also the wild yellow lily (_Lilium
Canadense_), some of whose bulbs I collected for a soup. On some
ridges the burnt land extended as far as the lake. This was a very
beautiful lake, two or three miles long, with high mountains on the
southwest side, the (as our Indian said) _Nerlumskeechticook_, _i.
e._, Deadwater Mountain. It appears to be the same called Carbuncle
Mountain on the map. According to Polis, it extends in separate
elevations all along this and the next lake, which is much larger. The
lake, too, I think, is called by the same name, or perhaps with the
addition of _gamoc_ or _mooc_. The morning was a bright one, and
perfectly still and serene, the lake as smooth as glass, we making the
only ripple as we paddled into it. The dark mountains about it were
seen through a glaucous mist, and the brilliant white stems of canoe
birches mingled with the other woods around it. The wood thrush sang
on the distant shore, and the laugh of some loons, sporting in a
concealed western bay, as if inspired by the morning, came distinct
over the lake to us, and, what was more remarkable, the echo which ran
round the lake was much louder than the original note; probably
because, the loon being in a regularly curving bay under the mountain,
we were exactly in the focus of many echoes, the sound being reflected
like light from a concave mirror. The beauty of the scene may have
been enhanced to our eyes by the fact that we had just come together
again after a night of some anxiety. This reminded me of the Ambejijis
Lake on the West Branch, which I crossed in my first coming to Maine.
Having paddled down three quarters of the lake, we came to a
standstill, while my companion let down for fish. A white (or whitish)
gull sat on a rock which rose above the surface in mid-lake not far
off, quite in harmony with the scene; and as we rested there in the
warm sun, we heard one loud crushing or crackling sound from the
forest, forty or fifty rods distant, as of a stick broken by the foot
of some large animal. Even this was an interesting incident there. In
the midst of our dreams of giant lake trout, even then supposed to be
nibbling, our fishermen drew up a diminutive red perch, and we took up
our paddles again in haste.

It was not apparent where the outlet of this lake was, and while the
Indian thought it was in one direction, I thought it was in another.
He said, "I bet you four-pence it is there," but he still held on in
my direction, which proved to be the right one. As we were approaching
the outlet, it being still early in the forenoon, he suddenly
exclaimed, "Moose! moose!" and told us to be still. He put a cap on
his gun, and, standing up in the stern, rapidly pushed the canoe
straight toward the shore and the moose. It was a cow moose, about
thirty rods off, standing in the water by the side of the outlet,
partly behind some fallen timber and bushes, and at that distance she
did not look very large. She was flapping her large ears, and from
time to time poking off the flies with her nose from some part of her
body. She did not appear much alarmed by our neighborhood, only
occasionally turned her head and looked straight at us, and then gave
her attention to the flies again. As we approached nearer she got out
of the water, stood higher, and regarded us more suspiciously. Polis
pushed the canoe steadily forward in the shallow water, and I for a
moment forgot the moose in attending to some pretty rose-colored
Polygonums just rising above the surface, but the canoe soon grounded
in the mud eight or ten rods distant from the moose, and the Indian
seized his gun and prepared to fire. After standing still a moment,
she turned slowly, as usual, so as to expose her side, and he improved
this moment to fire, over our heads. She thereupon moved off eight or
ten rods at a moderate pace, across a shallow bay, to an old
standing-place of hers, behind some fallen red maples, on the opposite
shore, and there she stood still again a dozen or fourteen rods from
us, while the Indian hastily loaded and fired twice at her, without
her moving. My companion, who passed him his caps and bullets, said
that Polis was as excited as a boy of fifteen, that his hand trembled,
and he once put his ramrod back upside down. This was remarkable for
so experienced a hunter. Perhaps he was anxious to make a good shot
before us. The white hunter had told me that the Indians were not good
shots, because they were excited, though he said that we had got a
good hunter with us.

The Indian now pushed quickly and quietly back, and a long distance
round, in order to get into the outlet,--for he had fired over the
neck of a peninsula between it and the lake,--till we approached the
place where the moose had stood, when he exclaimed, "She is a goner!"
and was surprised that we did not see her as soon as he did. There, to
be sure, she lay perfectly dead, with her tongue hanging out, just
where she had stood to receive the last shots, looking unexpectedly
large and horse-like, and we saw where the bullets had scarred the
trees.

Using a tape, I found that the moose measured just six feet from the
shoulder to the tip of the hoof, and was eight feet long as she lay.
Some portions of the body, for a foot in diameter, were almost covered
with flies, apparently the common fly of our woods, with a dark spot
on the wing, and not the very large ones which occasionally pursued us
in midstream, though both are called moose-flies.

Polis, preparing to skin the moose, asked me to help him find a stone
on which to sharpen his large knife. It being all a flat alluvial
ground where the moose had fallen, covered with red maples, etc., this
was no easy matter; we searched far and wide, a long time, till at
length I found a flat kind of slate-stone, and soon after he returned
with a similar one, on which he soon made his knife very sharp.

While he was skinning the moose, I proceeded to ascertain what kind of
fishes were to be found in the sluggish and muddy outlet. The greatest
difficulty was to find a pole. It was almost impossible to find a
slender, straight pole ten or twelve feet long in those woods. You
might search half an hour in vain. They are commonly spruce,
arbor-vitæ, fir, etc., short, stout, and branchy, and do not make good
fish-poles, even after you have patiently cut off all their tough and
scraggy branches. The fishes were red perch and chivin.

The Indian, having cut off a large piece of sirloin, the upper lip,
and the tongue, wrapped them in the hide, and placed them in the
bottom of the canoe, observing that there was "one man," meaning the
weight of one. Our load had previously been reduced some thirty
pounds, but a hundred pounds were now added,--a serious addition,
which made our quarters still more narrow, and considerably increased
the danger on the lakes and rapids, as well as the labor of the
carries. The skin was ours according to custom, since the Indian was
in our employ, but we did not think of claiming it. He being a
skillful dresser of moose-hides would make it worth seven or eight
dollars to him, as I was told. He said that he sometimes earned fifty
or sixty dollars in a day at them; he had killed ten moose in one day,
though the skinning and all took two days. This was the way he had got
his property. There were the tracks of a calf thereabouts, which he
said would come "by, by," and he could get it if we cared to wait, but
I cast cold water on the project.

We continued along the outlet toward Grand Lake, through a swampy
region, by a long, winding, and narrow dead water, very much choked up
by wood, where we were obliged to land sometimes in order to get the
canoe over a log. It was hard to find any channel, and we did not know
but we should be lost in the swamp. It abounded in ducks, as usual. At
length we reached Grand Lake, which the Indian called _Matungamook_.

At the head of this we saw, coming in from the southwest, with a sweep
apparently from a gorge in the mountains, Trout Stream, or
_Uncardnerheese_, which name, the Indian said, had something to do
with mountains.

We stopped to dine on an interesting high rocky island, soon after
entering Matungamook Lake, securing our canoe to the cliffy shore. It
is always pleasant to step from a boat on to a large rock or cliff.
Here was a good opportunity to dry our dewy blankets on the open sunny
rock. Indians had recently camped here, and accidentally burned over
the western end of the island, and Polis picked up a gun-case of blue
broadcloth, and said that he knew the Indian it belonged to, and would
carry it to him. His tribe is not so large but he may know all its
effects. We proceeded to make a fire and cook our dinner amid some
pines, where our predecessors had done the same, while the Indian
busied himself about his moose-hide on the shore, for he said that he
thought it a good plan for one to do all the cooking, _i. e._, I
suppose, if that one were not himself. A peculiar evergreen overhung
our fire, which at first glance looked like a pitch pine (_P.
rigida_), with leaves little more than an inch long, spruce-like, but
we found it to be the _Pinus Banksiana_,--"Banks's, or the Labrador
Pine," also called scrub pine, gray pine, etc., a new tree to us.
These must have been good specimens, for several were thirty or
thirty-five feet high. Richardson found it forty feet high and upward,
and states that the porcupine feeds on its bark. Here also grew the
red pine (_Pinus resinosa_).

I saw where the Indians had made canoes in a little secluded hollow in
the woods, on the top of the rock, where they were out of the wind,
and large piles of whittlings remained. This must have been a favorite
resort for their ancestors, and, indeed, we found here the point of an
arrowhead, such as they have not used for two centuries and now know
not how to make. The Indian, picking up a stone, remarked to me, "That
very strange lock (rock)." It was a piece of hornstone, which I told
him his tribe had probably brought here centuries before to make
arrowheads of. He also picked up a yellowish curved bone by the side
of our fireplace and asked me to guess what it was. It was one of the
upper incisors of a beaver, on which some party had feasted within a
year or two. I found also most of the teeth, and the skull, etc. We
here dined on fried moose-meat.

One who was my companion in my two previous excursions to these woods,
tells me that when hunting up the Caucomgomoc, about two years ago, he
found himself dining one day on moose-meat, mud turtle, trout, and
beaver, and he thought that there were few places in the world where
these dishes could easily be brought together on one table.

After the almost incessant rapids and falls of the Madunkchunk
(Height-of-Land, or Webster Stream), we had just passed through the
dead water of Second Lake, and were now in the much larger dead water
of Grand Lake, and I thought the Indian was entitled to take an extra
nap here. Ktaadn, near which we were to pass the next day, is said to
mean "Highest Land." So much geography is there in their names. The
Indian navigator naturally distinguishes by a name those parts of a
stream where he has encountered quick water and forks, and again, the
lakes and smooth water where he can rest his weary arms, since those
are the most interesting and more arable parts to him. The very sight
of the _Nerlumskeechticook_, or Deadwater Mountains, a day's journey
off over the forest, as we first saw them, must awaken in him pleasing
memories. And not less interesting is it to the white traveler, when
he is crossing a placid lake in these out-of-the-way woods, perhaps
thinking that he is in some sense one of the earlier discoverers of
it, to be reminded that it was thus well known and suitably named by
Indian hunters perhaps a thousand years ago.

Ascending the precipitous rock which formed this long narrow island, I
was surprised to find that its summit was a narrow ridge, with a
precipice on one side, and that its axis of elevation extended from
northwest to southeast exactly like that of the great rocky ridge at
the commencement of the Burnt Ground, ten miles northwesterly. The
same arrangement prevailed here, and we could plainly see that the
mountain ridges on the west of the lake trended the same way. Splendid
large harebells nodded over the edge and in the clefts of the cliff,
and the blueberries (_Vaccinium Canadense_) were for the first time
really abundant in the thin soil on its top. There was no lack of them
henceforward on the East Branch. There was a fine view hence over the
sparkling lake, which looked pure and deep, and had two or three, in
all, rocky islands in it. Our blankets being dry, we set out again,
the Indian as usual having left his gazette on a tree. This time it
was we three in a canoe, my companion smoking. We paddled southward
down this handsome lake, which appeared to extend nearly as far east
as south, keeping near the western shore, just outside a small island,
under the dark Nerlumskeechticook Mountain. For I had observed on my
map that this was the course. It was three or four miles across it. It
struck me that the outline of this mountain on the southwest of
the lake, and of another beyond it, was not only like that of the huge
rock waves of Webster Stream, but in the main like Kineo, on Moosehead
Lake, having a similar but less abrupt precipice at the southeast end;
in short, that all the prominent hills and ridges hereabouts were
larger or smaller Kineos, and that possibly there was such a relation
between Kineo and the rocks of Webster Stream.

  [Illustration: _Mount Kineo Cliff_]

The Indian did not know exactly where the outlet was, whether at the
extreme southwest angle or more easterly, and had asked to see my plan
at the last stopping-place, but I had forgotten to show it to him. As
usual, he went feeling his way by a middle course between two probable
points, from which he could diverge either way at last without losing
much distance. In approaching the south shore, as the clouds looked
gusty and the waves ran pretty high, we so steered as to get partly
under the lee of an island, though at a great distance from it.

I could not distinguish the outlet till we were almost in it, and
heard the water falling over the dam there.

Here was a considerable fall, and a very substantial dam, but no sign
of a cabin or camp. The hunter whom we met at Telos Lake had told us
that there were plenty of trout here, but at this hour they did not
rise to the bait, only cousin trout, from the very midst of the
rushing waters. There are not so many fishes in these rivers as in the
Concord.

While we loitered here, Polis took occasion to cut with his big knife
some of the hair from his moose-hide, and so lightened and prepared it
for drying. I noticed at several old Indian camps in the woods the
pile of hair which they had cut from their hides.

Having carried over the dam, he darted down the rapids, leaving us to
walk for a mile or more, where for the most part there was no path,
but very thick and difficult traveling near the stream. At length he
would call to let us know where he was waiting for us with his canoe,
when, on account of the windings of the stream, we did not know where
the shore was, but he did not call often enough, forgetting that we
were not Indians. He seemed to be very saving of his breath,--yet he
would be surprised if we went by, or did not strike the right spot.
This was not because he was unaccommodating, but a proof of superior
manners. Indians like to get along with the least possible
communication and ado. He was really paying us a great compliment all
the while, thinking that we preferred a hint to a kick.

At length, climbing over the willows and fallen trees, when this was
easier than to go round or under them, we overtook the canoe, and
glided down the stream in smooth but swift water for several miles. I
here observed again, as at Webster Stream, and on a still larger scale
the next day, that the river was a smooth and regularly inclined plane
down which we coasted. As we thus glided along we started the first
black ducks which we had distinguished.

We decided to camp early to-night, that we might have ample time
before dark; so we stopped at the first favorable shore, where there
was a narrow gravelly beach on the western side, some five miles below
the outlet of the lake. It was an interesting spot, where the river
began to make a great bend to the east, and the last of the peculiar
moose-faced Nerlumskeechticook Mountains not far southwest of Grand
Lake rose dark in the northwest a short distance behind, displaying
its gray precipitous southeast side, but we could not see this without
coming out upon the shore.

Two steps from the water on either side, and you come to the abrupt
bushy and rooty if not turfy edge of the bank, four or five feet high,
where the interminable forest begins, as if the stream had but just
cut its way through it.

It is surprising on stepping ashore anywhere into this unbroken
wilderness to see so often, at least within a few rods of the river,
the marks of the axe, made by lumberers who have either camped here or
driven logs past in previous springs. You will see perchance where,
going on the same errand that you do, they have cut large chips from a
tall white pine stump for their fire. While we were pitching the camp
and getting supper, the Indian cut the rest of the hair from his
moose-hide, and proceeded to extend it vertically on a temporary frame
between two small trees, half a dozen feet from the opposite side of
the fire, lashing and stretching it with arbor-vitæ bark which was
always at hand, and in this case was stripped from one of the trees it
was tied to. Asking for a new kind of tea, he made us some, pretty
good, of the checkerberry (_Gaultheria procumbens_), which covered the
ground, dropping a little bunch of it tied up with cedar bark into the
kettle; but it was not quite equal to the _Chiogenes_. We called this
therefore Checkerberry-Tea Camp.

I was struck with the abundance of the _Linnæa borealis_,
checkerberry, and _Chiogenes hispidula_, almost everywhere in the
Maine woods. The wintergreen (_Chimaphila umbellata_) was still in
bloom here, and clintonia berries were abundant and ripe. This
handsome plant is one of the most common in that forest. We here first
noticed the moose-wood in fruit on the banks. The prevailing trees
were spruce (commonly black), arbor-vitæ, canoe birch (black ash and
elms beginning to appear), yellow birch, red maple, and a little
hemlock skulking in the forest. The Indian said that the white maple
punk was the best for tinder, that yellow birch punk was pretty good,
but hard. After supper he put on the moose tongue and lips to boil,
cutting out the _septum_. He showed me how to write on the under side
of birch bark, with a black spruce twig, which is hard and tough, and
can be brought to a point.

The Indian wandered off into the woods a short distance just before
night, and, coming back, said, "Me found great treasure,--fifty, sixty
dollars' worth." "What's that?" we asked. "Steel traps, under a log,
thirty or forty, I didn't count 'em. I guess Indian work,--worth three
dollars apiece." It was a singular coincidence that he should have
chanced to walk to and look under that particular log, in that
trackless forest.

I saw chivin and chub in the stream when washing my hands, but my
companion tried in vain to catch them. I also heard the sound of
bullfrogs from a swamp on the opposite side, thinking at first that
they were moose; a duck paddled swiftly by; and sitting in that dusky
wilderness, under that dark mountain, by the bright river which was
full of reflected light, still I heard the wood thrush sing, as if no
higher civilization could be attained. By this time the night was upon
us.

You commonly make your camp just at sundown, and are collecting wood,
getting your supper, or pitching your tent while the shades of night
are gathering around and adding to the already dense gloom of the
forest. You have no time to explore or look around you before it is
dark. You may penetrate half a dozen rods farther into that twilight
wilderness, after some dry bark to kindle your fire with, and wonder
what mysteries lie hidden still deeper in it, say at the end of a long
day's walk; or you may run down to the shore for a dipper of water,
and get a clearer view for a short distance up or down the stream, and
while you stand there, see a fish leap, or duck alight in the river,
or hear a wood thrush or robin sing in the woods. That is as if you
had been to town or civilized parts. But there is no sauntering off to
see the country, and ten or fifteen rods seems a great way from your
companions, and you come back with the air of a much-traveled man, as
from a long journey, with adventures to relate, though you may have
heard the crackling of the fire all the while,--and at a hundred rods
you might be lost past recovery, and have to camp out. It is all mossy
and _moosey_. In some of those dense fir and spruce woods there is
hardly room for the smoke to go up. The trees are a _standing_ night,
and every fir and spruce which you fell is a plume plucked from
night's raven wing. Then at night the general stillness is more
impressive than any sound, but occasionally you hear the note of an
owl farther or nearer in the woods, and if near a lake, the semihuman
cry of the loons at their unearthly revels.

To-night the Indian lay between the fire and his stretched moose-hide,
to avoid the mosquitoes. Indeed, he also made a small smoky fire of
damp leaves at his head and his feet, and then as usual rolled up his
head in his blanket. We with our veils and our wash were tolerably
comfortable, but it would be difficult to pursue any sedentary
occupation in the woods at this season; you cannot see to read much by
the light of a fire through a veil in the evening, nor handle pencil
and paper well with gloves or anointed fingers.

       *       *       *       *       *

     FRIDAY, July 31.

The Indian said, "You and I kill moose last night, therefore use 'em
best wood. Always use hard wood to cook moose-meat." His "best wood"
was rock maple. He cast the moose's lip into the fire, to burn the
hair off, and then rolled it up with the meat to carry along.
Observing that we were sitting down to breakfast without any pork, he
said, with a very grave look, "Me want some fat," so he was told that
he might have as much as he would fry.

We had smooth but swift water for a considerable distance, where we
glided rapidly along, scaring up ducks and kingfishers. But, as usual,
our smooth progress ere long came to an end, and we were obliged to
carry canoe and all about half a mile down the right bank, around some
rapids or falls. It required sharp eyes sometimes to tell which side
was the carry, before you went over the falls, but Polis never failed
to land us rightly. The raspberries were particularly abundant and
large here, and all hands went to eating them, the Indian remarking on
their size.

Often on bare rocky carries the trail was so indistinct that I
repeatedly lost it, but when I walked behind him I observed that he
could keep it almost like a hound, and rarely hesitated, or, if he
paused a moment on a bare rock, his eye immediately detected some sign
which would have escaped me. Frequently _we_ found no path at all at
these places, and were to him unaccountably delayed. He would only say
it was "ver strange."

We had heard of a Grand Fall on this stream, and thought that each
fall we came to must be it, but after christening several in
succession with this name, we gave up the search. There were more
Grand or Petty Falls than I can remember.

I cannot tell how many times we had to walk on account of falls or
rapids. We were expecting all the while that the river would take a
final leap and get to smooth water, but there was no improvement this
forenoon. However, the carries were an agreeable variety. So surely as
we stepped out of the canoe and stretched our legs we found ourselves
in a blueberry and raspberry garden, each side of our rocky trail
around the falls being lined with one or both. There was not a carry
on the main East Branch where we did not find an abundance of both
these berries, for these were the rockiest places, and partially
cleared, such as these plants prefer, and there had been none to
gather the finest before us.

In our three journeys over the carries,--for we were obliged to go
over the ground three times whenever the canoe was taken out,--we did
full justice to the berries, and they were just what we wanted to
correct the effect of our hard bread and pork diet. Another name for
making a portage would have been going a-berrying. We also found a few
amelanchier, or service, berries, though most were abortive, but they
held on rather more generally than they do in Concord. The Indian
called them _pemoymenuk_, and said that they bore much fruit in some
places. He sometimes also ate the northern wild red cherries, saying
that they were good medicine, but they were scarcely edible. We bathed
and dined at the foot of one of these carries. It was the Indian who
commonly reminded us that it was dinner-time, sometimes even by
turning the prow to the shore. He once made an indirect, but lengthy
apology, by saying that we might think it strange, but that one who
worked hard all day was very particular to have his dinner in good
season. At the most considerable fall on this stream, when I was
walking over the carry, close behind the Indian, he observed a track
on the rock, which was but slightly covered with soil, and, stooping,
muttered "caribou." When we returned, he observed a much larger track
near the same place, where some animal's foot had sunk into a small
hollow in the rock, partly filled with grass and earth, and he
exclaimed with surprise, "What that?" "Well, what is it?" I asked.
Stooping and laying his hand in it, he answered with a mysterious air,
and in a half whisper, "Devil [that is, Indian Devil, or
cougar]--ledges about here--very bad animal--pull 'em rocks all to
pieces." "How long since it was made?" I asked. "To-day or yesterday,"
said he. But when I asked him afterward if he was sure it was the
devil's track, he said he did not know. I had been told that the
scream of a cougar was heard about Ktaadn recently, and we were not
far from that mountain.

We spent at least half the time in walking to-day, and the walking was
as bad as usual, for the Indian, being alone, commonly ran down far
below the foot of the carries before he waited for us. The carry-paths
themselves were more than usually indistinct, often the route being
revealed only by the countless small holes in the fallen timber made
by the tacks in the drivers' boots, or where there _was_ a slight
trail we did not find it. It was a tangled and perplexing thicket,
through which we stumbled and threaded our way, and when we had
finished a mile of it, our starting-point seemed far away. We were
glad that we had not got to walk to Bangor along the banks of this
river, which would be a journey of more than a hundred miles. Think of
the denseness of the forest, the fallen trees and rocks, the windings
of the river, the streams emptying in, and the frequent swamps to be
crossed. It made you shudder. Yet the Indian from time to time pointed
out to us where he had thus crept along day after day when he was a
boy of ten, and in a starving condition. He had been hunting far north
of this with two grown Indians. The winter came on unexpectedly early,
and the ice compelled them to leave their canoe at Grand Lake, and
walk down the bank. They shouldered their furs and started for
Oldtown. The snow was not deep enough for snowshoes, or to cover the
inequalities of the ground. Polis was soon too weak to carry any
burden; but he managed to catch one otter. This was the most they all
had to eat on this journey, and he remembered how good the yellow lily
roots were, made into a soup with the otter oil. He shared this food
equally with the other two, but being so small he suffered much more
than they. He waded through the Mattawamkeag at its mouth, when it was
freezing cold and came up to his chin, and he, being very weak and
emaciated, expected to be swept away. The first house which they
reached was at Lincoln, and thereabouts they met a white teamster with
supplies, who, seeing their condition, gave them as much of his load
as they could eat. For six months after getting home, he was very low,
and did not expect to live, and was perhaps always the worse for it.

We could not find much more than half of this day's journey on our
maps (the "Map of the Public Lands of Maine and Massachusetts," and
"Colton's Railroad and Township Map of Maine," which copies the
former). By the maps there was not more than fifteen miles between
camps at the outside, and yet we had been busily progressing all day,
and much of the time very rapidly.

For seven or eight miles below that succession of "Grand" falls, the
aspect of the banks as well as the character of the stream was
changed. After passing a tributary from the northeast, perhaps Bowlin
Stream, we had good swift smooth water, with a regular slope, such as
I have described. Low, grassy banks and muddy shores began. Many elms,
as well as maples, and more ash trees, overhung the stream, and
supplanted the spruce.

My lily roots having been lost when the canoe was taken out at a
carry, I landed late in the afternoon, at a low and grassy place amid
maples, to gather more. It was slow work, grubbing them up amid the
sand, and the mosquitoes were all the while feasting on me.
Mosquitoes, black flies, etc., pursued us in mid-channel, and we were
glad sometimes to get into violent rapids, for then we escaped them.

A red-headed woodpecker flew across the river, and the Indian remarked
that it was good to eat. As we glided swiftly down the inclined plane
of the river, a great cat owl launched itself away from a stump on the
bank, and flew heavily across the stream, and the Indian, as usual,
imitated its note. Soon the same bird flew back in front of us, and we
afterwards passed it perched on a tree. Soon afterward a white-headed
eagle sailed down the stream before us. We drove him several miles,
while we were looking for a good place to camp, for we expected to be
overtaken by a shower,--and still we could distinguish him by his
white tail, sailing away from time to time from some tree by the shore
still farther down the stream. Some shecorways being surprised by us,
a part of them dived, and we passed directly over them, and could
trace their course here and there by a bubble on the surface, but we
did not see them come up. Polis detected once or twice what he called
a "tow" road, an indistinct path leading into the forest. In the
meanwhile we passed the mouth of the Seboois on our left. This did not
look so large as our stream, which was indeed the main one. It was
some time before we found a camping-place, for the shore was either
too grassy and muddy, where mosquitoes abounded, or too steep a
hillside. The Indian said that there were but few mosquitoes on a
steep hillside. We examined a good place, where somebody had camped a
long time; but it seemed pitiful to occupy an old site, where there
was so much room to choose, so we continued on. We at length found a
place to our minds, on the west bank, about a mile below the mouth of
the Seboois, where, in a very dense spruce wood above a gravelly
shore, there seemed to be but few insects. The trees were so thick
that we were obliged to clear a space to build our fire and lie down
in, and the young spruce trees that were left were like the wall of an
apartment rising around us. We were obliged to pull ourselves up a
steep bank to get there. But the place which you have selected for
your camp, though never so rough and grim, begins at once to have its
attractions, and becomes a very centre of civilization to you: "Home
is home, be it never so homely."

It turned out that the mosquitoes were more numerous here than we had
found them before, and the Indian complained a good deal, though he
lay, as the night before, between three fires and his stretched hide.
As I sat on a stump by the fire, with a veil and gloves on, trying to
read, he observed, "I make you candle," and in a minute he took a
piece of birch bark about two inches wide and rolled it hard, like an
allumette fifteen inches long, lit it, and fixed it by the other end
horizontally in a split stick three feet high, stuck it in the ground,
turning the blazing end to the wind, and telling me to snuff it from
time to time. It answered the purpose of a candle pretty well.

I noticed, as I had done before, that there was a lull among the
mosquitoes about midnight, and that they began again in the morning.
Nature is thus merciful. But apparently they need rest as well as we.
Few, if any, creatures are equally active all night. As soon as it was
light I saw, through my veil, that the inside of the tent about our
heads was quite blackened with myriads, each one of their wings when
flying, as has been calculated, vibrating some three thousand times in
a minute, and their combined hum was almost as bad to endure as their
stings. I had an uncomfortable night on this account though I am not
sure that one succeeded in his attempt to sting me. We did not suffer
so much from insects on this excursion as the statements of some who
have explored these woods in midsummer led us to anticipate. Yet I
have no doubt that at some seasons and in some places they are a much
more serious pest. The Jesuit Hierome Lalemant, of Quebec, reporting
the death of Father Reni Menard, who was abandoned, lost his way, and
died in the woods, among the Ontarios near Lake Superior, in 1661,
dwells chiefly on his probable sufferings from the attacks of
mosquitoes when too weak to defend himself, adding that there was a
frightful number of them in those parts, "and so insupportable," says
he, "that the three Frenchmen who have made that voyage affirm that
there was no other means of defending one's self but to run always
without stopping, and it was even necessary for two of them to be
employed in driving off these creatures while the third wanted to
drink, otherwise he could not have done it." I have no doubt that this
was said in good faith.

       *       *       *       *       *

     August 1.

I caught two or three large red chivin (_Leuciscus pulchellus_) early
this morning, within twenty feet of the camp, which, added to the
moose-tongue, that had been left in the kettle boiling overnight, and
to our other stores, made a sumptuous breakfast. The Indian made us
some hemlock tea instead of coffee, and we were not obliged to go as
far as China for it; indeed, not quite so far as for the fish. This
was tolerable, though he said it was not strong enough. It was
interesting to see so simple a dish as a kettle of water with a
handful of green hemlock sprigs in it, boiling over the huge fire in
the open air, the leaves fast losing their lively green color, and
know that it was for our breakfast.

We were glad to embark once more, and leave some of the mosquitoes
behind. We had passed the _Wassataquoik_ without perceiving it. This,
according to the Indian, is the name of the main East Branch itself,
and not properly applied to this small tributary alone, as on the
maps.

We found that we had camped about a mile above Hunt's, which is on the
east bank, and is the last house for those who ascend Ktaadn on this
side.

We had expected to ascend it from this point, but my companion was
obliged to give up this on account of sore feet. The Indian, however,
suggested that perhaps he might get a pair of moccasins at this place,
and that he could walk very easily in them without hurting his feet,
wearing several pairs of stockings, and he said beside that they were
so porous that when you had taken in water it all drained out again
in a little while. We stopped to get some sugar, but found that the
family had moved away, and the house was unoccupied, except
temporarily by some men who were getting the hay. They told me that
the road to Ktaadn left the river eight miles above; also that perhaps
we could get some sugar at Fisk's, fourteen miles below. I do not
remember that we saw the mountain at all from the river. I noticed a
seine here stretched on the bank, which probably had been used to
catch salmon. Just below this, on the west bank, we saw a moose-hide
stretched, and with it a bearskin, which was comparatively very small.
I was the more interested in this sight, because it was near here that
a townsman of ours, then quite a lad, and alone, killed a large bear
some years ago. The Indian said that they belonged to Joe Aitteon, my
last guide, but how he told I do not know. He was probably hunting
near, and had left them for the day. Finding that we were going
directly to Oldtown, he regretted that he had not taken more of the
moose-meat to his family, saying that in a short time, by drying it,
he could have made it so light as to have brought away the greater
part, leaving the bones. We once or twice inquired after the lip,
which is a famous tidbit, but he said, "That go Oldtown for my old
woman; don't get it every day."

Maples grew more and more numerous. It was lowering, and rained a
little during the forenoon, and, as we expected a wetting, we stopped
early and dined on the east side of a small expansion of the river,
just above what are probably called Whetstone Falls, about a dozen
miles below Hunt's. There were pretty fresh moose-tracks by the
waterside. There were singular long ridges hereabouts, called
"horsebacks," covered with ferns. My companion, having lost his pipe,
asked the Indian if he could not make him one. "Oh, yer," said he, and
in a minute rolled up one of birch bark, telling him to wet the bowl
from time to time. Here also he left his gazette on a tree.

We carried round the falls just below, on the west side. The rocks
were on their edges, and very sharp. The distance was about three
fourths of a mile. When we had carried over one load, the Indian
returned by the shore, and I by the path, and though I made no
particular haste, I was nevertheless surprised to find him at the
other end as soon as I. It was remarkable how easily he got along over
the worst ground. He said to me, "I take canoe and you take the rest,
suppose you can keep along with me?" I thought that he meant that
while he ran down the rapids I should keep along the shore, and be
ready to assist him from time to time, as I had done before; but as
the walking would be very bad, I answered, "I suppose you will go too
fast for me, but I will try." But I was to go by the path, he said.
This I thought would not help the matter, I should have so far to go
to get to the riverside when he wanted me. But neither was this what
he meant. He was proposing a race over the carry, and asked me if I
thought I could keep along with him by the same path, adding that I
must be pretty smart to do it. As his load, the canoe, would be much
the heaviest and bulkiest, though the simplest, I thought that I ought
to be able to do it, and said that I would try. So I proceeded to
gather up the gun, axe, paddle, kettle, frying-pan, plates, dippers,
carpets, etc., etc., and while I was thus engaged he threw me his
cowhide boots. "What, are these in the bargain?" I asked. "Oh, yer,"
said he; but before I could make a bundle of my load I saw him
disappearing over a hill with the canoe on his head; so, hastily
scraping the various articles together, I started on the run, and
immediately went by him in the bushes, but I had no sooner left him
out of sight in a rocky hollow than the greasy plates, dippers, etc.,
took to themselves wings, and while I was employed in gathering them
up again, he went by me; but hastily pressing the sooty kettle to my
side, I started once more, and soon passing him again, I saw him no
more on the carry. I do not mention this as anything of a feat, for it
was but poor running on my part, and he was obliged to move with great
caution for fear of breaking his canoe as well as his neck. When he
made his appearance, puffing and panting like myself, in answer to my
inquiries where he had been, he said, "Rocks (locks) cut 'em feet,"
and, laughing, added, "Oh, me love to play sometimes." He said that he
and his companions, when they came to carries several miles long, used
to try who would get over first; each, perhaps, with a canoe on his
head. I bore the sign of the kettle on my brown linen sack for the
rest of the voyage.

We made a second carry on the west side, around some falls about a
mile below this. On the mainland were Norway pines, indicating a new
geological formation, and it was such a dry and sandy soil as we had
not noticed before.

As we approached the mouth of the East Branch, we passed two or three
huts, the first sign of civilization after Hunt's, though we saw no
road as yet; we heard a cow-bell, and even saw an infant held up to a
small square window to see us pass, but apparently the infant and the
mother that held it were the only inhabitants then at home for several
miles. This took the wind out of our sails, reminding us that we were
travelers surely, while it was a native of the soil, and had the
advantage of us. Conversation flagged. I would only hear the Indian,
perhaps, ask my companion, "You load my pipe?" He said that he smoked
alder bark, for medicine. On entering the West Branch at Nicketow it
appeared much larger than the East. Polis remarked that the former was
all gone and lost now, that it was all smooth water hence to Oldtown,
and he threw away his pole which was cut on the Umbazookskus. Thinking
of the rapids, he said once or twice that you wouldn't catch him to go
East Branch again; but he did not by any means mean all that he said.

Things are quite changed since I was here eleven years ago. Where
there were but one or two houses, I now found quite a village, with
sawmills and a store (the latter was locked, but its contents were so
much the more safely stored), and there was a stage-road to
Mattawamkeag, and the rumor of a stage. Indeed, a steamer had ascended
thus far once, when the water was very high. But we were not able to
get any sugar, only a better shingle to lean our backs against.

We camped about two miles below Nicketow, on the south side of the
West Branch, covering with fresh twigs the withered bed of a former
traveler, and feeling that we were now in a settled country,
especially when in the evening we heard an ox sneeze in its wild
pasture across the river. Wherever you land along the frequented part
of the river, you have not far to go to find these sites of temporary
inns, the withered bed of flattened twigs, the charred sticks, and
perhaps the tent-poles. And not long since, similar beds were spread
along the Connecticut, the Hudson, and the Delaware, and longer still
ago, by the Thames and Seine, and they now help to make the soil where
private and public gardens, mansions and palaces are. We could not get
fir twigs for our bed here, and the spruce was harsh in comparison,
having more twig in proportion to its leaf, but we improved it
somewhat with hemlock. The Indian remarked as before, "Must have hard
wood to cook moose-meat," as if that were a maxim, and proceeded to
get it. My companion cooked some in California fashion, winding a long
string of the meat round a stick and slowly turning it in his hand
before the fire. It was very good. But the Indian, not approving of
the mode, or because he was not allowed to cook it his own way, would
not taste it. After the regular supper we attempted to make a lily
soup of the bulbs which I had brought along, for I wished to learn all
I could before I got out of the woods. Following the Indian's
directions, for he began to be sick, I washed the bulbs carefully,
minced some moose-meat and some pork, salted and boiled all together,
but we had not patience to try the experiment fairly, for he said it
must be boiled till the roots were completely softened so as to
thicken the soup like flour; but though we left it on all night, we
found it dried to the kettle in the morning, and not yet boiled to a
flour. Perhaps the roots were not ripe enough, for they commonly
gather them in the fall. As it was, it was palatable enough, but it
reminded me of the Irishman's limestone broth. The other ingredients
were enough alone. The Indian's name for these bulbs was _Sheepnoc_. I
stirred the soup by accident with a striped maple or moose-wood stick,
which I had peeled, and he remarked that its bark was an emetic.

He prepared to camp as usual between his moose-hide and the fire; but
it beginning to rain suddenly, he took refuge under the tent with us,
and gave us a song before falling asleep. It rained hard in the night,
and spoiled another box of matches for us, which the Indian had left
out, for he was very careless; but, as usual, we had so much the
better night for the rain, since it kept the mosquitoes down.

       *       *       *       *       *

     SUNDAY, August 2.

Was a cloudy and unpromising morning. One of us observed to the
Indian, "You did not stretch your moose-hide last night, did you, Mr.
Polis?" Whereat he replied, in a tone of surprise, though perhaps not
of ill humor: "What you ask me that question for? Suppose I stretch
'em, you see 'em. May be your way talking, may be all right, no Indian
way." I had observed that he did not wish to answer the same question
more than once, and was often silent when it was put again for the
sake of certainty, as if he were moody. Not that he was incommunicative,
for he frequently commenced a long-winded narrative of his own
accord,--repeated at length the tradition of some old battle, or some
passage in the recent history of his tribe in which he had acted a
prominent part, from time to time drawing a long breath, and resuming
the thread of his tale, with the true story-teller's leisureliness,
perhaps after shooting a rapid,--prefacing with "We-e-ll, by-by,"
etc., as he paddled along. Especially after the day's work was over,
and he had put himself in posture for the night, he would be
unexpectedly sociable, exhibit even the _bonhommie_ of a Frenchman,
and we would fall asleep before he got through his periods.

Nicketow is called eleven miles from Mattawamkeag by the river. Our
camp was, therefore, about nine miles from the latter place.

The Indian was quite sick this morning with the colic. I thought that
he was the worse for the moose-meat he had eaten.

We reached the Mattawamkeag at half past eight in the morning, in the
midst of a drizzling rain, and, after buying some sugar, set out
again.

The Indian growing much worse, we stopped in the north part of Lincoln
to get some brandy for him; but failing in this, an apothecary
recommended Brandreth's pills, which he refused to take, because he
was not acquainted with them. He said to me, "Me doctor,--first study
my case, find out what ail 'em,--then I know what to take." We dropped
down a little farther, and stopped at mid-forenoon on an island and
made him a dipper of tea. Here, too, we dined and did some washing and
botanizing, while he lay on the bank. In the afternoon we went on a
little farther, though the Indian was no better. "Burntibus," as he
called it, was a long, smooth, lake-like reach below the Five
Islands. He said that he owned a hundred acres somewhere up this way.
As a thunder-shower appeared to be coming up, we stopped opposite a
barn on the west bank, in Chester, about a mile above Lincoln. Here at
last we were obliged to spend the rest of the day and night, on
account of our patient, whose sickness did not abate. He lay groaning
under his canoe on the bank, looking very woebegone, yet it was only a
common case of colic. You would not have thought, if you had seen him
lying about thus, that he was the proprietor of so many acres in that
neighborhood, was worth six thousand dollars, and had been to
Washington. It seemed to me that, like the Irish, he made a greater
ado about his sickness than a Yankee does, and was more alarmed about
himself. We talked somewhat of leaving him with his people in
Lincoln,--for that is one of their homes,--and taking the stage the
next day, but he objected on account of the expense saying, "Suppose
me well in morning, you and I go Oldtown by noon."

As we were taking our tea at twilight, while he lay groaning still
under his canoe, having at length found out "what ail him," he asked
me to get him a dipper of water. Taking the dipper in one hand he
seized his powder-horn with the other, and, pouring into it a charge
or two of powder, stirred it up with his finger, and drank it off.
This was all he took to-day after breakfast beside his tea.

To save the trouble of pitching our tent, when we had secured our
stores from wandering dogs, we camped in the solitary half-open barn
near the bank, with the permission of the owner, lying on new-mown
hay four feet deep. The fragrance of the hay, in which many ferns,
etc., were mingled, was agreeable, though it was quite alive with
grasshoppers which you could hear crawling through it. This served to
graduate our approach to houses and feather beds. In the night some
large bird, probably an owl, flitted through over our heads, and very
early in the morning we were awakened by the twittering of swallows
which had their nests there.

       *       *       *       *       *

     MONDAY, August 3.

We started early before breakfast, the Indian being considerably
better, and soon glided by Lincoln, and after another long and
handsome lake-like reach, we stopped to breakfast on the west shore,
two or three miles below this town.

We frequently passed Indian islands with their small houses on them.
The Governor, Aitteon, lives in one of them, in Lincoln.

The Penobscot Indians seem to be more social, even, than the whites.
Ever and anon in the deepest wilderness of Maine, you come to the log
hut of a Yankee or Canada settler, but a Penobscot never takes up his
residence in such a solitude. They are not even scattered about on
their islands in the Penobscot, which are all within the settlements,
but gathered together on two or three,--though not always on the best
soil,--evidently for the sake of society. I saw one or two houses not
now used by them, because, as our Indian Polis said, they were too
solitary.

The small river emptying in at Lincoln is the Matanancook, which
also, we noticed, was the name of a steamer moored there. So we
paddled and floated along, looking into the mouths of rivers. When
passing the Mohawk Rips, or, as the Indian called them, "Mohog lips,"
four or five miles below Lincoln, he told us at length the story of a
fight between his tribe and the Mohawks there, anciently,--how the
latter were overcome by stratagem, the Penobscots using concealed
knives,--but they could not for a long time kill the Mohawk chief, who
was a very large and strong man, though he was attacked by several
canoes at once, when swimming alone in the river.

From time to time we met Indians in their canoes, going up river. Our
man did not commonly approach them, but exchanged a few words with
them at a distance in his tongue. These were the first Indians we had
met since leaving the Umbazookskus.

At Piscataquis Falls, just above the river of that name, we walked
over the wooden railroad on the eastern shore, about one and a half
miles long, while the Indian glided down the rapids. The steamer from
Oldtown stops here, and passengers take a new boat above. Piscataquis,
whose mouth we here passed, means "branch." It is obstructed by falls
at its mouth, but can be navigated with batteaux or canoes above
through a settled country, even to the neighborhood of Moosehead Lake,
and we had thought at first of going that way. We were not obliged to
get out of the canoe after this on account of falls or rapids, nor,
indeed, was it quite necessary here. We took less notice of the
scenery to-day, because we were in quite a settled country. The river
became broad and sluggish, and we saw a blue heron winging its way
slowly down the stream before us.

We passed the Passadumkeag River on our left and saw the blue Olamon
mountains at a distance in the southeast. Hereabouts our Indian told
us at length the story of their contention with the priest respecting
schools. He thought a great deal of education and had recommended it
to his tribe. His argument in its favor was, that if you had been to
college and learnt to calculate, you could "keep 'em property,--no
other way." He said that his boy was the best scholar in the school at
Oldtown, to which he went with whites. He himself is a Protestant, and
goes to church regularly at Oldtown. According to his account, a good
many of his tribe are Protestants, and many of the Catholics also are
in favor of schools. Some years ago they had a schoolmaster, a
Protestant, whom they liked very well. The priest came and said that
they must send him away, and finally he had such influence, telling
them that they would go to the bad place at last if they retained him,
that they sent him away. The school party, though numerous, were about
giving up. Bishop Fenwick came from Boston and used his influence
against them. But our Indian told his side that they must not give up,
must hold on, they were the strongest. If they gave up, then they
would have no party. But they answered that it was "no use, priest too
strong, we'd better give up." At length he persuaded them to make a
stand.

The priest was going for a sign to cut down the liberty-pole. So Polis
and his party had a secret meeting about it; he got ready fifteen or
twenty stout young men, "stript 'em naked, and painted 'em like old
times," and told them that when the priest and his party went to cut
down the liberty-pole, they were to rush up, take hold of it, and
prevent them, and he assured them that there would be no war, only a
noise,--"no war where priest is." He kept his men concealed in a house
near by, and when the priest's party were about to cut down the
liberty-pole, the fall of which would have been a death-blow to the
school party, he gave a signal, and his young men rushed out and
seized the pole. There was a great uproar, and they were about coming
to blows, but the priest interfered, saying, "No war, no war," and so
the pole stands, and the school goes on still.

We thought that it showed a good deal of tact in him, to seize this
occasion and take his stand on it; proving how well he understood
those with whom he had to deal.

The Olamon River comes in from the east in Greenbush a few miles below
the Passadumkeag. When we asked the meaning of this name, the Indian
said there was an island opposite its mouth which was called
_Olarmon_; that in old times, when visitors were coming to Oldtown,
they used to stop there to dress and fix up or paint themselves. "What
is that which ladies used?" he asked. Rouge? Red Vermilion? "Yer," he
said, "that is _larmon_, a kind of clay or red paint, which they used
to get here."

We decided that we, too, would stop at this island, and fix up our
inner man, at least, by dining.

It was a large island, with an abundance of hemp nettle, but I did not
notice any kind of red paint there. The Olamon River, at its mouth at
least, is a dead stream. There was another large island in that
neighborhood, which the Indian called "_Soogle_" (_i. e._, Sugar)
Island.

About a dozen miles before reaching Oldtown he inquired, "How you like
'em your pilot?" But we postponed an answer till we had got quite back
again.

The Sunkhaze, another short dead stream, comes in from the east two
miles above Oldtown. There is said to be some of the best deer ground
in Maine on this stream. Asking the meaning of this name, the Indian
said, "Suppose you are going down Penobscot, just like we, and you see
a canoe come out of bank and go along before you, but you no see 'em
stream. That is _Sunkhaze_."

He had previously complimented me on my paddling, saying that I
paddled "just like anybody," giving me an Indian name which meant
"great paddler." When off this stream he said to me, who sat in the
bows, "Me teach you paddle." So, turning toward the shore, he got out,
came forward, and placed my hands as he wished. He placed one of them
quite outside the boat, and the other parallel with the first,
grasping the paddle near the end, not over the flat extremity, and
told me to slide it back and forth on the side of the canoe. This, I
found, was a great improvement which I had not thought of, saving me
the labor of lifting the paddle each time, and I wondered that he had
not suggested it before. It is true, before our baggage was reduced we
had been obliged to sit with our legs drawn up, and our knees above
the side of the canoe, which would have prevented our paddling thus,
or perhaps he was afraid of wearing out his canoe, by constant
friction on the side.

I told him that I had been accustomed to sit in the stern, and,
lifting my paddle at each stroke, give it a twist in order to steer
the boat, only getting a pry on the side each time, and I still
paddled partly as if in the stern. He then wanted to see me paddle in
the stern. So, changing paddles, for he had the longer and better one,
and turning end for end, he sitting flat on the bottom and I on the
crossbar, he began to paddle very hard, trying to turn the canoe,
looking over his shoulder and laughing; but finding it in vain, he
relaxed his efforts, though we still sped along a mile or two very
swiftly. He said that he had no fault to find with my paddling in the
stern, but I complained that he did not paddle according to his own
directions in the bows.

Opposite the Sunkhaze is the main boom of the Penobscot, where the
logs from far up the river are collected and assorted.

As we drew near to Oldtown I asked Polis if he was not glad to get
home again; but there was no relenting to his wildness, and he said,
"It makes no difference to me where I am." Such is the Indian's
pretense always.

We approached the Indian Island through the narrow strait called
"Cook." He said, "I 'xpect we take in some water there, river so
high,--never see it so high at this season. Very rough water there,
but short; swamp steamboat once. Don't you paddle till I tell you,
then you paddle right along." It was a very short rapid. When we were
in the midst of it he shouted "paddle," and we shot through without
taking in a drop.

Soon after the Indian houses came in sight, but I could not at first
tell my companion which of two or three large white ones was our
guide's. He said it was the one with blinds.

We landed opposite his door at about four in the afternoon, having
come some forty miles this day. From the Piscataquis we had come
remarkably and unaccountably quick, probably as fast as the stage or
the boat, though the last dozen miles was dead water.

Polis wanted to sell us his canoe, said it would last seven or eight
years, or with care, perhaps ten; but we were not ready to buy it.

We stopped for an hour at his house, where my companion shaved with
his razor, which he pronounced in very good condition. Mrs. P. wore a
hat and had a silver brooch on her breast, but she was not introduced
to us. The house was roomy and neat. A large new map of Oldtown and
the Indian Island hung on the wall, and a clock opposite to it.
Wishing to know when the cars left Oldtown, Polis's son brought one of
the last Bangor papers, which I saw was directed to "Joseph Polis,"
from the office.

This was the last that I saw of Joe Polis. We took the last train, and
reached Bangor that night.

FOOTNOTE:

[8] These twigs are called in Rasle's Dictionary _Sediak_.




APPENDIX


I. TREES

The prevailing trees (I speak only of what I saw) on the east and west
branches of the Penobscot and on the upper part of the Allegash were
the fir, spruce (both black and white), and arbor-vitæ, or "cedar."
The fir has the darkest foliage, and, together with the spruce, makes
a very dense "black growth," especially on the upper parts of the
rivers. A dealer in lumber with whom I talked called the former a
weed, and it is commonly regarded as fit neither for timber nor fuel.
But it is more sought after as an ornamental tree than any other
evergreen of these woods except the arbor-vitæ. The black spruce is
much more common than the white. Both are tall and slender trees. The
arbor-vitæ, which is of a more cheerful hue, with its light-green
fans, is also tall and slender, though sometimes two feet in diameter.
It often fills the swamps.

Mingled with the former, and also here and there forming extensive and
more open woods by themselves, indicating, it is said, a better soil,
were canoe and yellow birches (the former was always at hand for
kindling a fire,--we saw no small white birches in that wilderness),
and sugar and red maples.

The aspen (_Populus tremuloides_) was very common on burnt grounds. We
saw many straggling white pines, commonly unsound trees, which had
therefore been skipped by the choppers; these were the largest trees
we saw; and we occasionally passed a small wood in which this was the
prevailing tree; but I did not notice nearly so many of these trees as
I can see in a single walk in Concord. The speckled or hoary alder
(_Alnus incana_) abounds everywhere along the muddy banks of rivers
and lakes, and in swamps. Hemlock could commonly be found for tea, but
was nowhere abundant. Yet F. A. Michaux states that in Maine, Vermont,
and the upper part of New Hampshire, etc., the hemlock forms three
fourths of the evergreen woods, the rest being black spruce. It
belongs to cold hillsides.

The elm and black ash were very common along the lower and stiller
parts of the streams, where the shores were flat and grassy or there
were low gravelly islands. They made a pleasing variety in the
scenery, and we felt as if nearer home while gliding past them.

The above fourteen trees made the bulk of the woods which we saw.

The larch (juniper), beech, and Norway pine (_Pinus resinosa_, red
pine) were only occasionally seen in particular places. The _Pinus
Banksiana_ (gray or Northern scrub pine), and a single small red oak
(_Quercus rubra_) only, are on islands in Grand Lake, on the East
Branch.

The above are almost all peculiarly Northern trees, and found chiefly,
if not solely, on mountains southward.


II. FLOWERS AND SHRUBS

It appears that in a forest like this the great majority of flowers,
shrubs, and grasses are confined to the banks of the rivers and lakes,
and to the meadows, more open swamps, burnt lands, and mountain-tops;
comparatively very few indeed penetrate the woods. There is no such
dispersion even of wild-flowers as is commonly supposed, or as exists
in a cleared and settled country. Most of our wild-flowers, so called,
may be considered as naturalized in the localities where they grow.
Rivers and lakes are the great protectors of such plants against the
aggressions of the forest, by their annual rise and fall keeping open
a narrow strip where these more delicate plants have light and space
in which to grow. They are the _protégés_ of the rivers. These narrow
and straggling bands and isolated groups are, in a sense, the pioneers
of civilization. Birds, quadrupeds, insects, and man also, in the
main, follow the flowers, and the latter in his turn makes more room
for them and for berry-bearing shrubs, birds, and small quadrupeds.
One settler told me that not only blackberries and raspberries but
mountain maples came in, in the clearing and burning.

Though plants are often referred to primitive woods as their locality,
it cannot be true of very many, unless the woods are supposed to
include such localities as I have mentioned. Only those which require
but little light, and can bear the drip of the trees, penetrate the
woods, and these have commonly more beauty in their leaves than in
their pale and almost colorless blossoms.

The prevailing flowers and conspicuous small plants of the _woods_,
which I noticed, were: _Clintonia borealis_, linnæa, checkerberry
(_Gaultheria procumbens_), _Aralia nudicaulis_ (wild sarsaparilla),
great round-leaved orchis, _Dalibarda repens_, _Chiogenes hispidula_
(creeping snowberry), _Oxalis Acetosella_ (common wood-sorrel), _Aster
acuminatus_, _Pyrola secunda_ (one-sided pyrola), _Medeola Virginica_
(Indian cucumber-root), small _Circæa_ (enchanter's nightshade), and
perhaps _Cornus Canadensis_ (dwarf cornel).

Of these, the last of July, 1858, only the _Aster acuminatus_ and
great round-leaved orchis were conspicuously in bloom.

The most common flowers of the _river_ and _lake shores_ were:
_Thalictrum cornuti_ (meadow-rue); _Hypericum ellipticum_, _mutilum_,
and _Canadense_ (St. John's-wort); horsemint; horehound, _Lycopus
Virginicus_ and _Europæus_, var. _sinuatus_ (bugle-weed); _Scutellaria
galericulata_ (skullcap); _Solidago lanceolata_ and _squarrosa_, East
Branch, (goldenrod); _Diplopappus umbellatus_ (double-bristled aster);
_Aster Radula_; _Cicuta maculata_ and _bulbifera_ (water hemlock);
meadow-sweet; _Lysimachia stricta_ and _ciliata_ (loosestrife);
_Galium trifidum_ (small bed-straw); _Lilium Canadense_ (wild yellow
lily); _Platanthera peramœna_ and _psycodes_ (great purple orchis
and small purple fringed orchis); _Mimulus ringens_ (monkey-flower);
dock (water); blue flag; _Hydrocotyle Americana_ (marsh pennywort);
_Sanicula Canadensis_ (_?_) (black snake-root); _Clematis Virginiana_
(_?_) (common virgin's-bower); _Nasturtium palustre_ (marsh cress);
_Ranunculus recurvatus_ (hooked crow-foot); _Asclepias incarnata_
(swamp milkweed); _Aster Tradescanti_ (Tradescant's aster); _Aster
miser_, also _longifolius_; _Eupatorium purpureum_, apparently, lake
shores, (Joe-Pye-weed); _Apocynum Cannabinum_, East Branch, (Indian
hemp); _Polygonum cilinode_ (bindweed); and others. Not to mention,
among inferior orders, wool-grass and the sensitive fern.

In the water, _Nuphar advena_ (yellow pond-lily), some _potamogetons_
(pond-weed), _Sagittaria variabilis_ (arrowhead), _Sium lineare_ (_?_)
(water-parsnip).

Of these, those conspicuously in flower the last of July, 1857, were:
rue, _Solidago lanceolata_ and _squarrosa_, _Diplopappus umbellatus_,
_Aster Radula_, _Lilium Canadense_, great and small purple orchis,
_Mimulus ringens_, blue flag, virgin's-bower, etc.

The characteristic flowers in _swamps_ were: _Rubus triflorus_ (dwarf
raspberry); _Calla palustris_ (water-arum); and _Sarracenia purpurea_
(pitcher-plant). On _burnt grounds_: _Epilobium angustifolium_, in
full bloom, (great willow-herb); and _Erechthites hieracifolia_
(fire-weed). On _cliffs_: _Campanula rotundifolia_ (harebell); _Cornus
Canadensis_ (dwarf cornel); _Arctostaphylos Uva-Ursi_ (bear-berry);
_Potentilla tridentata_ (mountain cinquefoil); _Pteris aquilina_
(common brake). At _old camps, carries, and logging-paths_: _Cirsium
arvense_ (Canada thistle); _Prunella vulgaris_ (common self-heal);
clover; herd's-grass; _Achillea millefolium_ (common yarrow);
_Leucanthemum vulgare_ (whiteweed); _Aster macrophyllus_; _Halenia
deflexa_, East Branch, (spurred gentian); _Antennaria margaritacea_
(pearly everlasting); _Actæa rubra_ and _alba_, wet carries, (red and
white cohosh); _Desmodium Canadense_ (tick-trefoil); sorrel.

The handsomest and most interesting flowers were the great purple
orchises, rising ever and anon, with their great purple spikes
perfectly erect, amid the shrubs and grasses of the shore. It seemed
strange that they should be made to grow there in such profusion, seen
of moose and moose-hunters only, while they are so rare in Concord. I
have never seen this species flowering nearly so late with us, or with
the small one.

The prevailing underwoods were: _Dirca palustris_ (moose-wood), _Acer
spicatum_ (mountain maple), _Virburnum lantanoides_ (hobble-bush), and
frequently _Taxus baccata_, var. _Canadensis_ (American yew).

The prevailing shrubs and small trees along the shore were: _osier
rouge_ and alders (before mentioned); sallows, or small willows, of
two or three kinds, as _Salis humilis_, _rostrata_, and _discolor_
(_?_); _Sambucus Canadensis_ (black elder); rose; _Viburnum Opulus_
and _nudum_ (cranberry-tree and withe-rod); _Pyrus Americana_
(American mountain-ash); _Corylus rostrata_ (beaked hazelnut);
_Diervilla trifida_ (bush honeysuckle); _Prunus Virginiana_
(choke-cherry); _Myrica gale_ (sweet-gale); _Nemopanthes Canadensis_
(mountain holly); _Cephalanthus occidentalis_ (button-bush); _Ribes
prostratum_, in some places, (fetid currant).

More particularly of shrubs and small trees in _swamps_: some willows,
_Kalmia glauca_ (pale laurel), _Ledum latifolium_ and _palustre_
(Labrador tea), _Ribes lacustre_ (swamp gooseberry), and in one place
_Betula pumila_ (low birch). At _camps and carries_: raspberry,
_Vaccinium Canadense_ (Canada blueberry), _Prunus Pennsylvanica_ (also
alongshore) (wild red cherry), _Amelanchier Canadensis_ (shad-bush),
_Sambucus pubens_ (red-berried elder). Among those peculiar to the
_mountains_ would be the _Vaccinium Vitis-Idæa_ (cow-berry).

Of plants commonly regarded as _introduced_ from Europe, I observed at
Ansel Smith's clearing, Chesuncook, abundant in 1857: _Ranunculus
acris_ (buttercups); _Plantago major_ (common plantain); _Chenopodium
album_ (lamb's-quarters); _Capsella Bursa-pastoris_, 1853,
(shepherd's-purse); _Spergula arvensis_, also north shore of Moosehead
in 1853, and elsewhere, 1857, (corn-spurry); _Taraxacum
Dens-leonis_--regarded as indigenous by Gray, but evidently introduced
there--(common dandelion); _Polygonum Persicaria_ and _hydropiper_, by
a logging-path in woods at Smith's, (lady's-thumb and smart-weed);
_Rumex Acetosella_, common at carries, (sheep sorrel); _Trifolium
pratense_, 1853, on carries, frequent, (red clover); _Leucanthemum
vulgare_, carries, (whiteweed); _Phleum pratense_, carries, 1853 and
1857, (herd's-grass); _Verbena hastata_ (blue vervain); _Cirsium
arvense_, abundant at camps, 1857, (Canada thistle); _Rumex crispus_
(_?_), West Branch, 1853 (?), (curled dock); _Verbascum Thapsus_,
between Bangor and lake, 1853, (common mullein).

It appears that I saw about a dozen plants which had accompanied man
as far into the woods as Chesuncook, and had naturalized themselves
there, in 1853. Plants begin thus early to spring by the side of a
logging-path,--a mere vista through the woods, which can only be used
in the winter, on account of the stumps and fallen trees,--which at
length are the roadside plants in old settlements. The pioneers of
such are planted in part by the first cattle, which cannot be summered
in the woods.


III. LIST OF PLANTS

The following is a list of the plants which I noticed in the Maine
woods, in the years 1853 and 1857. (Those marked * not in woods.)

1. THOSE WHICH ATTAINED THE HEIGHT OF TREES

_Alnus incana_ (speckled or hoary alder), abundant along streams, etc.

_Thuja occidentalis_ (American arbor-vitæ), one of the prevailing.

_Fraxinus sambucifolia_ (black ash), very common, especially near dead
water. The Indian spoke of "yellow ash" as also found there.

_Populus tremuloides_ (American aspen), very common, especially on
burnt lands, almost as white as birches.

_Populus grandidentata_ (large-toothed aspen), perhaps two or three.

_Fagus ferruginea_ (American beech), not uncommon, at least on the
West Branch. (Saw more in 1846.)

_Betula papyracea_ (canoe birch), prevailing everywhere and about
Bangor.

_Betula excelsa_ (yellow birch), very common.

_Betula lenta_ (black birch), on the West Branch in 1853.

_Betula alba_ (American white birch), about Bangor only.

_Ulmus Americana_ (American or white elm), West Branch and low down
the East Branch, _i. e._ on the lower and alluvial part of the river,
very common.

_Larix Americana_ (American or black larch), very common on the
Umbazookskus; some elsewhere.

_Abies Canadensis_ (hemlock spruce); not abundant; some on the West
Branch, and a little everywhere.

_Acer saccharinum_ (sugar maple), very common.

_Acer rubrum_ (red or swamp maple), very common.

_Acer dasycarpum_ (white or silver maple), a little low on East Branch
and in Chesuncook woods.

_Quercus rubra_ (red oak), one on an island in Grand Lake, East
Branch, and, according to a settler, a few on the east side of
Chesuncook Lake; a few also about Bangor in 1853.

_Pinus Strobus_ (white pine), scattered along, most abundant at Heron
Lake.

_Pinus resinosa_ (red pine), Telos and Grand Lake, a little afterwards
here and there.

_Abies balsamea_ (balsam fir), perhaps the most common tree,
especially in the upper parts of rivers.

_Abies nigra_ (black or double spruce), next to the last the most
common, if not equally common, and on mountains.

_Abies alba_ (white or single spruce), common with the last along the
rivers.

_Pinus Banksiana_ (gray or Northern scrub pine), a few on an island in
Grand Lake.

Twenty-three in all (23).

2. SMALL TREES AND SHRUBS

_Prunus depressa_ (dwarf cherry), on gravel-bars, East Branch, near
Hunt's, with green fruit; obviously distinct from the _pumila_ of
river and meadows.

_Vaccinium corymbosum_ (common swamp blueberry), Bucksport.

_Vaccinium Canadense_ (Canada blueberry), carries and rocky hills
everywhere as far south as Bucksport.

_Vaccinium Pennsylvanicum_ (dwarf-blueberry?), Whetstone Falls.

_Betula pumila_ (low birch), Mud Pond Swamp.

_Prinos verticillatus_ (black alder), 1857, now placed with _Ilex_ by
Gray, 2d ed.

_Cephalanthus occidentalis_ (button-bush).

_Prunus Pennsylvanica_ (wild red cherry), very common at camps,
carries, etc., along rivers; fruit ripe August 1, 1857.

_Prunus Virginiana_ (choke-cherry), riverside, common.

_Cornus alternifolia_ (alternate-leaved cornel), West Branch, 1853.

_Ribes prostratum_ (fetid currant), common along streams; on Webster
Stream.

_Sambucus Canadensis_ (common elder), common along riversides.

_Sambucus pubens_ (red-berried elder), not quite so common; roadsides
toward Moosehead, and on carries afterward; fruit beautiful.

_Ribes lacustre_ (swamp-gooseberry), swamps, common; Mud Pond Swamp
and Webster Stream; not ripe July 29, 1857.

_Corylus rostrata_ (beaked hazelnut), common.

_Taxus baccata_, var. _Canadensis_ (American yew), a common undershrub
at an island in West Branch and Chesuncook woods.

_Viburnum lantanoides_ (hobble-bush), common, especially in Chesuncook
woods; fruit ripe in September, 1853, not in July, 1857.

_Viburnum Opulus_ (cranberry-tree), on West Branch; one in flower
still, July 25, 1857.

_Viburnum nudum_ (withe-rod), common along rivers.

_Kalmia glauca_ (pale laurel), swamps, common, as at Moosehead Carry
and Chamberlain Swamp.

_Kalmia angustifolia_ (lambkill), with _Kalmia glauca_.

_Acer spicatum_ (mountain maple), a prevailing underwood.

_Acer striatum_ (striped maple), in fruit July 30, 1857; green the
first year; green, striped with white, the second; darker, the third,
with dark blotches.

_Cornus stolonifera_ (red-osier dogwood), prevailing shrub on shore of
West Branch; fruit still white in August, 1857.

_Pyrus Americana_ (American mountain-ash), common along shores.

_Amelanchier Canadensis_ (shad-bush), rocky carries, etc.,
considerable fruit in 1857.

_Rubus strigosus_ (wild red raspberry), very abundant, burnt grounds,
camps, and carries, but not ripe till we got to Chamberlain dam and on
East Branch.

_Rosa Carolina_ (swamp rose), common on the shores of lakes, etc.

_Rhus typhina_* (staghorn sumach).

_Myrica Gale_ (sweet-gale), common.

_Nemopanthes Canadensis_ (mountain holly), common in low ground,
Moosehead Carry, and on Mount Kineo.

_Cratægus_ (_coccinea_? scarlet-fruited thorn), not uncommon; with
hard fruit in September, 1853.

_Salix_ (near to _petiolaris_, petioled willow), very common in
Umbazookskus meadows.

_Salix rostrata_ (long-beaked willow), common.

_Salix humilis_ (low bush willow), common.

_Salix discolor_ (glaucous willow) (?).

_Salix lucida_ (shining willow), at island in Heron Lake.

_Dirca palustris_ (moose-wood), common.

In all, 38.

3. SMALL SHRUBS AND HERBACEOUS PLANTS

_Agrimonia Eupatoria_ (common agrimony), not uncommon.

_Circæa alpina_ (enchanter's nightshade), very common in woods.

_Nasturtium palustre_ (marsh cress), var. _hispidum_, common, as at A.
Smith's.

_Aralia hispida_ (bristly sarsaparilla), on West Branch, both years.

_Aralia nudicaulis_ (wild sarsaparilla), Chesuncook woods.

_Sagittaria variabilis_ (arrowhead), common at Moosehead and
afterward.

_Arum triphyllum_ (Indian turnip), now _arisæma_, Moosehead Carry in
1853.

_Asclepias incarnata_ (swamp milkweed), Umbazookskus River and after;
redder than ours, and a different variety from our var. _pulchra_.

_Aster acuminatus_ (pointed-leaved aster), the prevailing aster in
woods, not long open on South Branch, July 31; two or more feet high.

_Aster macrophyllus_ (large-leaved aster), common, and the whole plant
surprisingly fragrant, like a medicinal herb; just out at Telos Dam,
July 29, 1857, and after to Bangor and Bucksport; bluish flower (in
woods on Pine Stream and at Chesuncook in 1853).

_Aster Radula_ (rough-leaved aster), common, Moosehead Carry and
after.

_Aster miser_ (petty aster), in 1853 on West Branch, and common on
Chesuncook shore.

_Aster longifolius_ (willow-leaved blue aster), 1853, Moosehead and
Chesuncook shores.

_Aster cordifolius_ (heart-leaved aster), 1853, West Branch.

_Aster Tradescanti_ (Tradescant's aster), 1857. A narrow-leaved one,
Chesuncook shore, 1853.

_Aster_, _longifolius_-like, with small flowers, West Branch, 1853.

_Aster puniceus_ (rough-stemmed aster), Pine Stream.

_Diplopappus umbellatus_ (large diplopappus aster), common along
river.

_Arctostaphylos Uva-Ursi_ (bear-berry), Kineo, etc., 1857.

_Polygonum cilinode_ (fringe-jointed false-buckwheat), common.

_Bidens cernua_ (bur-marigold), 1853, West Branch.

_Ranunculus acris_ (buttercups), abundant at Smith's dam, Chesuncook,
1853.

_Rubus triflorus_ (dwarf raspberry), low grounds and swamps, common.

_Utricularia vulgaris_* (greater bladderwort), Pushaw.

_Iris versicolor_ (larger blue flag), common, Moosehead, West Branch,
Umbazookskus, etc.

_Sparganium_ (bur-reed).

_Calla palustris_ (water-arum), in bloom July 27, 1857, Mud Pond
Swamp.

_Lobelia cardinalis_ (cardinal-flower), apparently common, but out of
bloom August, 1857.

_Cerastium nutans_ (clammy wild chickweed) (?).

_Gaultheria procumbens_ (checkerberry), prevailing everywhere in woods
along banks of rivers.

_Stellaria media_* (common chickweed), Bangor.

_Chiogenes hispidula_ (creeping snowberry), very common in woods.

_Cicuta maculata_ (water hemlock).

_Cicuta bulbifera_ (bulb-bearing water hemlock), Penobscot and
Chesuncook shore, 1853.

_Galium trifidum_ (small bed-straw), common.

_Galium Aparine_ (cleavers) (?), Chesuncook, 1853.

_Galium_, one kind on Pine Stream, 1853.

_Trifolium pratense_ (red clover), on carries, etc.

_Actæa spicata_, var. _alba_ (white cohosh), Chesuncook woods, 1853,
and East Branch, 1857.

_Actæa_, var. _rubra_ (red cohosh), East Branch, 1857.

_Vaccinium Vitis-Idæa_ (cow-berry), Ktaadn, very abundant.

_Cornus Canadensis_ (dwarf cornel), in woods Chesuncook, 1853; just
ripe at Kineo, July 24, 1857, common; still in bloom, Moosehead Carry,
September 16, 1853.

_Medeola Virginica_ (Indian cucumber-root), West Branch and Chesuncook
woods.

_Dalibarda repens_ (dalibarda), Moosehead Carry and after, common. In
flower still, August 1, 1857.

_Taraxacum Dens-leonis_ (common dandelion), Smith's, 1853; only there.
Is it not foreign?

_Diervilla trifida_ (bush honeysuckle), very common.

_Rumex Hydrolapathum_ (_?_) (great water dock), in 1857; noticed it
was large-seeded in 1853; common.

_Rumex crispus_ (_?_) (curled dock), West Branch, 1853.

_Apocynum cannabinum_ (Indian hemp), Kineo (Bradford) and East Branch,
1857, at Whetstone Falls.

_Apocynum androsæmifolium_ (spreading dogbane), Kineo (Bradford).

_Clintonia borealis_ (clintonia), all over woods; fruit just ripening,
July 25, 1857.

A _Lemna_ (duckweed), Pushaw, 1857.

_Elodea Virginica_ (marsh St. John's-wort), Moosehead, 1853.

_Epilobium angustifolium_ (great willow-herb), great fields on burnt
lands; some white at Webster Stream.

_Epilobium coloratum_ (purple-veined willow-herb), once in 1857.

_Eupatorium purpureum_ (Joe-Pye-weed), Heron, Moosehead, and
Chesuncook lake shores, common.

_Allium_ (onion), a new kind to me in bloom, without bulbs above, on
rocks near Whetstone Falls (?), East Branch.

_Halenia deflexa_ (spurred gentian), carries on East Branch, common.

_Geranium Robertianum_ (herb-robert).

_Solidago lanceolata_ (bushy goldenrod), very common.

_Solidago_, one of the three-ribbed, in both years.

_Solidago thyrsoidea_ (large mountain goldenrod), one on Webster
Stream.

_Solidago squarrosa_ (large-spiked goldenrod), the most common on East
Branch.

_Solidago altissima_ (rough hairy goldenrod), not uncommon both
years.

_Coptis trifolia_ (three-leaved gold-thread).

_Smilax herbacea_ (carrion-flower), not uncommon both years.

_Spiræa tomentosa_* (hardhack), Bangor.

_Campanula rotundifolia_ (harebell), cliffs, Kineo, Grand Lake, etc.

_Hieracium_ (hawkweed), not uncommon.

_Veratrum viride_ (American white hellebore).

_Lycopus Virginicus_ (bugle-weed), 1857.

_Lycopus Europæus_ (water horehound), var. _sinuatus_, Heron Lake
shore.

_Chenopodium album_ (lamb's-quarters), Smith's.

_Mentha Canadensis_ (wild mint), very common.

_Galeopsis tetrahit_ (common hemp-nettle), Olamon Isle, abundant, and
below, in prime, August 3, 1857.

_Houstonia cærulea_ (bluets), now _Oldenlandia_ (Gray, 2d ed.), 1857.

_Hydrocotyle Americana_ (marsh pennywort), common.

_Hypericum ellipticum_ (elliptical-leaved St. John's-wort), common.

_Hypericum mutilum_ (small St. John's-wort), both years, common.

_Hypericum Canadense_ (Canadian St. John's-wort), Moosehead Lake and
Chesuncook shores, 1853.

_Trientalis Americana_ (star-flower), Pine Stream, 1853.

_Lobelia inflata_ (Indian tobacco).

_Spiranthes cernua_ (ladies'-tresses), Kineo and after.

_Nabalus_ (rattlesnake-root), 1857; _altissimus_ (tall white lettuce),
Chesuncook woods, 1853.

_Antennaria margaritacea_ (pearly everlasting), common, Moosehead,
Smith's, etc.

_Lilium Canadense_ (wild yellow lily), very common and large, West
and East Branch; one on East Branch, 1857, with strongly revolute
petals, and leaves perfectly smooth beneath, but not larger than the
last, and apparently only a variety.

_Linnæa borealis_ (linnæa), almost everywhere in woods.

_Lobelia Dortmanna_ (water lobelia), pond in Bucksport.

_Lysimachia ciliata_ (hairy-stalked loosestrife), very common,
Chesuncook shore and East Branch.

_Lysimachia stricta_ (upright loosestrife), very common.

_Microstylis ophioglossoides_ (adder's-mouth), Kineo.

_Spiræa salicifolia_ (common meadow-sweet), common.

_Mimulus ringens_ (monkey-flower), common, lake-shores, etc.

_Scutellaria galericulata_ (skullcap), very common.

_Scutellaria lateriflora_ (mad-dog skullcap), Heron Lake, 1857;
Chesuncook, 1853.

_Platanthera psycodes_ (small purple fringed orchis), very common,
East Branch and Chesuncook, 1853.

_Platanthera fimbriata_ (large purple fringed orchis), very common,
West Branch and Umbazookskus, 1857.

_Platanthera orbiculata_ (large round-leaved orchis), very common in
woods, Moosehead and Chamberlain carries, Caucomgomoc, etc.

_Amphicarpæa monoica_ (hog peanut).

_Aralia racemosa_ (spikenard), common, Moosehead Carry, Telos Lake,
etc., and after; out about August 1, 1857.

_Plantago major_ (common plantain), common in open land at Smith's in
1853.

_Pontederia cordata_* (pickerel-weed), only near Oldtown, 1857.

_Potamogeton_ (pondweed), not common.

_Potentilla tridentata_ (mountain cinquefoil), Kineo.

_Potentilla Norvegica_ (cinquefoil), Heron Lake shore and Smith's.

_Polygonum amphibium_ (water persicaria), var. _aquaticum_ Second
Lake.

_Polygonum Persicaria_ (lady's-thumb), log-path, Chesuncook, 1853.

_Nuphar advena_ (yellow pond-lily), not abundant.

_Nymphæa odorata_ (sweet water-lily), a few in West Branch, 1853.

_Polygonum Hydropiper_ (smart-weed), log-path, Chesuncook.

_Pyrola secunda_ (one-sided pyrola), very common, Caucomgomoc.

_Pyrola elliptica_ (shin-leaf), Caucomgomoc River.

_Ranunculus Flammula_ (spearwort, var. _reptans_).

_Ranunculus recurvatus_ (hooked crowfoot), Umbazookskus landing, &c.

_Typha latifolia_* (common cat-tail or reed-mace), extremely abundant
between Bangor and Portland.

_Sanicula Marylandica_ (black snake-root), Moosehead Carry and after.

_Aralia nudicaulis_ (wild sarsaparilla).

_Capsella Bursa-pastoris_ (shepherd's-purse), Smith's, 1853.

_Prunella vulgaris_ (self-heal), very common everywhere.

_Erechthites hieracifolia_ (fire-weed), 1857, and Smith's open land,
1853.

_Sarracenia purpurea_ (pitcher-plant), Mud Pond Swamp.

_Smilacina bifolia_ (false Solomon's-seal), 1857, and Chesuncook
woods, 1853.

_Smilacina racemosa_ (false spikenard) (?), Umbazookskus Carry, July
27, 1853.

_Veronica scutellata_ (marsh speedwell).

_Spergula arvensis_ (corn-spurry), 1857, not uncommon, 1853, Moosehead
and Smith's.

_Fragaria_ (strawberry), 1853, Smith's; 1857, Bucksport.

_Thalictrum Cornuti_ (meadow-rue), very common, especially along
rivers, tall, and conspicuously in bloom in July, 1857.

_Cirsium arvense_ (Canada thistle), abundant at camps and
highway-sides in the north of Maine.

_Cirsium muticum_ (swamp thistle), well in bloom, Webster Stream,
August 31.

_Rumex acetosella_ (sheep sorrel), common by river and log-paths, as
Chesuncook log-path.

_Impatiens fulva_ (spotted touch-me-not).

_Trillium erythrocarpum_ (painted trillium), common West Branch and
Moosehead Carry.

_Verbena hastata_ (blue vervain).

_Clematis Virginiana_ (common virgin's-bower), common on river-banks;
feathered in September, 1853; in bloom July, 1857.

_Leucanthemum vulgare_ (whiteweed).

_Sium lineare_ (water-parsnip), 1857, and Chesuncook shore 1853.

_Achillea millefolium_ (common yarrow), by river and log-paths, and
Smith's.

_Desmodium Canadense_ (Canadian tick-trefoil), not uncommon.

_Oxalis Acetosella_ (common wood-sorrel), still out July 25 1853, at
Moosehead Carry and after.

_Oxalis stricta_ (yellow wood-sorrel), 1853, at Smith's and his
wood-path.

_Liparis liliifolia_ (tway-blade), Kineo (Bradford).

_Uvularia grandiflora_ (large-flowered bellwort), woods, common.

_Uvularia sessilifolia_ (sessile-leaved bellwort), Chesuncook woods,
1853.

In all, 145.

4. OF LOWER ORDER

_Scirpus Eriophorum_ (wool-grass), very common, especially on low
islands. A coarse grass, four or five feet high, along the river.

_Phleum pratense_ (herd's-grass), on carries, at camps and clearings.

_Equisetum sylvaticum_ (sylvatic horse-tail).

_Pteris aquilina_ (brake), Kineo and after.

_Onoclea sensibilis_ (sensitive fern), very common along the
riversides; some on the gravelly shore of Heron Lake Island.

_Polypodium Dryopteris_ (brittle polypody).

_Woodsia Ilvensis_ (rusty woodsia), Kineo.

_Lycopodium lucidulum_ (toothed club-moss).

_Usnea_ (a parmeliaceous lichen), common on various trees.


IV. LIST OF BIRDS

WHICH I SAW IN MAINE BETWEEN JULY 24 AND AUGUST 3, 1857

A very small hawk at Great Falls, on Webster Stream.

_Haliæetus leucocephalus_ (white-headed or bald eagle), at Ragmuff,
and above and below Hunt's, and on pond below Mattawamkeag.

_Pandion haliaëtus_ (fish hawk or osprey), heard, also seen on East
Branch.

_Bubo Virginianus_ (cat owl), near Camp Island, also above mouth of
Schoonis, from a stump back and forth, also near Hunt's on a tree.

_Icterus phœniceus_ (red-winged blackbird), Umbazookskus River.

_Corvus Americanus_ (American crow), a few, as at outlet of Grand
Lake; a peculiar cawing.

_Fringilla Canadensis_ (tree sparrow), think I saw one on Mount Kineo,
July 24, which behaved as if it had a nest there.

_Garrulus cristatus_ (blue jay).

_Parus atricapillus_ (chickadee), a few.

_Muscicapa tyrannus_ (kingbird).

_Muscicapa Cooperii_ (olive-sided flycatcher), everywhere a prevailing
bird.

_Muscicapa virens_ (wood pewee), Moosehead, and I think beyond.

_Muscicapa acadica_ (small pewee), common.

_Muscicapa ruticilla_ (American redstart), Moosehead.

_Vireo olivaceus_ (red-eyed vireo), everywhere common.

_Turdus migratorius_ (red-breasted robin), some everywhere.

_Turdus melodus_ (wood thrush), common in all the woods.

_Turdus Wilsonii_ (Wilson's thrush), Moosehead and beyond.

_Turdus aurocapillus_ (golden-crowned thrush or oven-bird), Moosehead.

_Fringilla albicollis_ (white-throated sparrow), Kineo and after,
apparently nesting; the prevailing bird early and late.

_Fringilla melodia_ (song sparrow), at Moosehead or beyond.

_Sylvia pinus_ (pine warbler), one part of voyage.

_Trichas Marylandica_ (Maryland yellow-throat), everywhere.

_Coccyzus Americanus_ (_?_) (yellow-billed cuckoo), common.

_Picus erythrocephalus_ (red-headed woodpecker), heard and saw, and
good to eat.

_Sitta Carolinensis_ (_?_) (white-breasted American nuthatch), heard.

_Alcedo alcyon_ (belted kingfisher), very common.

_Caprimulgus Americanus_ (nighthawk).

_Tetrao umbellus_ (partridge), Moosehead Carry, etc.

_Tetrao cupido_ (_?_) (pinnated grouse), Webster Stream.

_Ardea cærulea_ (blue heron), lower part of Penobscot.

_Totanus macularius_ (spotted sandpiper or peetweet), everywhere.

_Larus argentatus_ (_?_) (herring gull), Heron Lake on rocks, and
Chamberlain. Smaller gull on Second Lake.

_Anas obscura_ (dusky or black duck), once in East Branch.

_Anas sponsa_ (summer or wood duck), everywhere.

_Fuligula albeola_ (spirit duck or dipper), common.

_Colymbus glacialis_ (great northern diver or loon), in all the lakes.

_Mergus Merganser_ (buff-breasted merganser or sheldrake), common on
lakes and rivers.

A swallow; the night-warbler (?) once or twice.


V. QUADRUPEDS

A bat on West Branch; beaver skull at Grand Lake; Mr. Thatcher ate
beaver with moose on the Caucomgomoc. A muskrat on the last stream;
the red squirrel is common in the depths of the woods; a dead
porcupine on Chamberlain road; a cow moose and tracks of calf; skin of
a bear, just killed.


VI. OUTFIT FOR AN EXCURSION

The following will be a good outfit for one who wishes to make an
excursion of _twelve_ days into the Maine woods in July, with a
companion and one Indian, for the same purposes that I did.

_Wear_,--a check shirt, stout old shoes, thick socks, a neck-ribbon,
thick waistcoat, thick pants, old Kossuth hat, a linen sack.

_Carry_,--in an india-rubber knapsack, with a large flap, two shirts
(check), one pair thick socks, one pair drawers, one flannel shirt,
two pocket-handkerchiefs, a light india-rubber coat or a thick woolen
one, two bosoms and collars to go and come with, one napkin, pins,
needles, thread, one blanket, best gray, seven feet long.

_Tent_,--six by seven feet, and four feet high in middle, will do;
veil and gloves and insect-wash, or, better, mosquito-bars to cover
all at night; best pocket map, and perhaps description of the route;
compass; plant-book and red blotting-paper; paper and stamps, botany,
small pocket spy-glass for birds, pocket microscope, tape-measure,
insect-boxes.

Axe, full size if possible, jackknife, fish-lines, two only apiece,
with a few hooks and corks ready, and with pork for bait in a packet,
rigged; matches (some also in a small vial in the waistcoat pocket);
soap, two pieces; large knife and iron spoon (for all); three or four
old newspapers, much twine, and several rags for dish-cloths; twenty
feet of strong cord, four-quart tin pail for kettle, two tin dippers,
three tin plates, a fry-pan.

_Provisions._--Soft hard-bread, twenty-eight pounds; pork, sixteen
pounds; sugar, twelve pounds; one pound black tea or three pounds
coffee; one box or a pint of salt; one quart Indian meal, to fry fish
in; six lemons, good to correct the pork and warm water; perhaps two
or three pounds of rice, for variety. You will probably get some
berries, fish, etc., beside.

A gun is not worth the carriage, unless you go as hunters. The pork
should be in an open keg, sawed to fit; the sugar, tea or coffee,
meal, salt, etc., should be put in separate water-tight india-rubber
bags, tied with a leather string; and all the provisions, and part of
the rest of the baggage, put into two large india-rubber bags, which
have been proved to be water-tight and durable.

Expense of preceding outfit is twenty-four dollars.

An Indian may be hired for about one dollar and fifty cents per day,
and perhaps fifty cents a week for his canoe (this depends on the
demand). The canoe should be a strong and tight one. This expense will
be nineteen dollars.

Such an excursion need not cost more than twenty-five dollars apiece,
starting at the foot of Moosehead, if you already possess or can
borrow a reasonable part of the outfit. If you take an Indian and
canoe at Oldtown, it will cost seven or eight dollars more to
transport them to the lake.



I

YEARS OF DISCIPLINE


It was a happy thought of Thoreau's friend Ellery Channing, himself a
poet, to style our Concord hermit the "poet-naturalist;" for there
seemed to be no year of his life and no hour of his day when Nature
did not whisper some secret in his ear,--so intimate was he with her
from childhood. In another connection, speaking of natural beauty,
Channing said, "There is Thoreau,--he knows about it; give him
sunshine and a handful of nuts, and he has enough." He was also a
naturalist in the more customary sense,--one who studied and arranged
methodically in his mind the facts of outward nature; a good botanist
and ornithologist, a wise student of insects and fishes; an observer
of the winds, the clouds, the seasons, and all that goes to make up
what we call "weather" and "climate." Yet he was in heart a poet, and
held all the accumulated knowledge of more than forty years not so
much for use as for delight. As Gray's poor friend West said of
himself, "like a clear-flowing stream, he reflected the beauteous
prospect around;" and Mother Nature had given Thoreau for his prospect
the meandering Indian river of Concord, the woodland pastures and fair
lakes by which he dwelt or rambled most of his life. Born in the East
Quarter of Concord, July 12, 1817, he died in the village, May 6,
1862; he was there fitted for Harvard College, which he entered in
1833, graduating in 1837; and for the rest of his life was hardly away
from the town for more than a year in all. Consequently his letters to
his family are few, for he was usually among them; but when separated
from his elder brother John, or his sisters Helen and Sophia, he wrote
to them, and these are the earliest of his letters which have been
preserved. Always thoughtful for others, he has left a few facts to
aid his biographer, respecting his birth and early years. In his
Journal of December 27, 1855, he wrote:--

"Recalled this evening, with the aid of Mother, the various houses
(and towns) in which I have lived, and some events of my life. Born
... in the Minott house on the Virginia Road, where Father occupied
Grandmother's 'thirds,' carrying on the farm. The Catherines [had] the
other half of the house,--Bob Catherine and [brother] John threw up
the turkeys. Lived there about eight months; Si Merriam the next
neighbor. Uncle David [Dunbar] died when I was six weeks old.[2] I was
baptized in the old meeting-house, by Dr. Ripley, when I was three
months, and did not cry. [In] the Red House, where Grandmother lived,
we [had] the west side till October, 1818,--hiring of Josiah Davis,
agent for the Woodwards; there were Cousin Charles and Uncle Charles
[Dunbar], more or less. According to the day-book first used by
Grandfather [Thoreau],[3] dated 1797 (his part cut out and [then] used
by Father in Concord in 1808-9, and in Chelmsford in 1818-21), Father
hired of Proctor [in Chelmsford], and shop of Spaulding. Chelmsford
till March, 1821; last charge in Chelmsford about middle of March,
1821. Aunt Sarah taught me to walk there, when fourteen months old.
Lived next the meeting-house, where they kept the powder in the
garret. Father kept shop and painted signs, etc.

"Pope's house, at South End in Boston (a ten-footer) five or six
months,--moved from Chelmsford through Concord, and may have tarried
in Concord a little while.

"Day-book says, 'Moved to Pinkney Street [Boston], September 10, 1821,
on Monday;' Whitwell's house, Pinckney Street, to March, 1823; brick
house, Concord, to spring of 1826; Davis house (next to Samuel Hoar's)
to May 7, 1827; Shattuck house (now Wm. Munroe's) to spring of 1835;
Hollis Hall, Cambridge, 1833; Aunts' house to spring of 1837. [This
was what is now the inn called 'Thoreau House.'] At Brownson's
[Canton] while teaching in winter of 1835. Went to New York with
Father peddling in 1836."

This brings the date down to the year in which Henry Thoreau left
college, and when the family letters begin. The notes continue, and
now begin to have a literary value.

"Parkman house to fall of 1844; was graduated in 1837; kept town
school a fortnight in 1837; began the big Red Journal, October, 1837;
found my first arrowheads, fall of 1837; wrote a lecture (my first) on
Society, March 14, 1838, and read it before the Lyceum, in the Masons'
Hall, April 11, 1838; went to Maine for a school in May, 1838;
commenced school [in the Parkman house[4]] in the summer of 1838;
wrote an essay on 'Sound and Silence' December, 1838; fall of 1839 up
the Merrimack to White Mountains; 'Aulus Persius Flaccus' (first
printed paper of consequence), February 10, 1840; the Red Journal of
546 pages ended June, 1840; Journal of 396 pages ended January 31,
1841.

"Went to R. W. Emerson's in spring of 1841 [about April 25], and
stayed there to summer of 1843; went to [William Emerson's], Staten
Island, May, 1843, and returned in December, or to Thanksgiving, 1843;
made pencils in 1844; Texas house to August 29, 1850; at Walden,
July, 1845, to fall of 1847; then at R. W. Emerson's to fall of 1848,
or while he was in Europe; Yellow House (reformed) till the present."

As may be inferred from this simple record of the many mansions,
chiefly small ones, in which he had spent his first thirty-eight
years, there was nothing distinguished in the fortunes of Thoreau's
family, who were small merchants, artisans, or farmers mostly. On the
father's side they were from the isle of Jersey, where a French strain
mingled with his English or Scandinavian blood; on the other side he
was of Scotch and English descent, counting Jones, Dunbar, and Burns
among his feminine ancestors. Liveliness and humor came to him from
his Scotch connection; from father and grandfather he inherited a
grave steadiness of mind rather at variance with his mother's
vivacity. Manual dexterity was also inherited; so that he practiced
the simpler mechanic arts with ease and skill; his mathematical
training and his outdoor habits fitted him for a land-surveyor; and by
that art, as well as by pencil-making, lecturing, and writing, he paid
his way in the world, and left a small income from his writings to
those who survived him. He taught pupils also, as did his brother and
sisters; but it was not an occupation that he long followed after
John's death in 1842. With these introductory statements we may
proceed to Thoreau's first correspondence with his brother and
sisters.

As an introduction to the correspondence, and a key to the young man's
view of life, a passage may be taken from Thoreau's "part" at his
college commencement, August 16, 1837. He was one of two to hold what
was called a "Conference" on "The Commercial Spirit,"--his alternative
or opponent in the dispute being Henry Vose, also of Concord, who, in
later years, was a Massachusetts judge. Henry Thoreau,[5] then just
twenty, said:--

"The characteristic of our epoch is perfect freedom,--freedom of
thought and action. The indignant Greek, the oppressed Pole, the
jealous American assert it. The skeptic no less than the believer, the
heretic no less than the faithful child of the church, have begun to
enjoy it. It has generated an unusual degree of energy and activity;
it has generated the _commercial spirit_. Man thinks faster and freer
than ever before. He, moreover, moves faster and freer. He is more
restless, because he is more independent than ever. The winds and the
waves are not enough for him; he must needs ransack the bowels of the
earth, that he may make for himself a highway of iron over its
surface.

"Indeed, could one examine this beehive of ours from an observatory
among the stars, he would perceive an unwonted degree of bustle in
these later ages. There would be hammering and chipping in one
quarter; baking and brewing, buying and selling, money-changing and
speechmaking in another. What impression would he receive from so
general and impartial a survey. Would it appear to him that mankind
used this world as not abusing it? Doubtless he would first be struck
with the profuse beauty of our orb; he would never tire of admiring
its varied zones and seasons, with their changes of living. He could
not but notice that restless animal for whose sake it was contrived;
but where he found one man to admire with him his fair dwelling-place,
the ninety and nine would be scraping together a little of the gilded
dust upon its surface.... We are to look chiefly for the origin of the
commercial spirit, and the power that still cherishes and sustains it,
in a blind and unmanly love of wealth. Wherever this exists, it is too
sure to become the ruling spirit; and, as a natural consequence, it
infuses into all our thoughts and affections a degree of its own
selfishness; we become selfish in our patriotism, selfish in our
domestic relations, selfish in our religion.

"Let men, true to their natures, cultivate the moral affections, lead
manly and independent lives; let them make riches the means and not
the end of existence, and we shall hear no more of the commercial
spirit. The sea will not stagnate, the earth will be as green as ever,
and the air as pure. This curious world which we inhabit is more
wonderful than it is convenient; more beautiful than it is useful; it
is more to be admired and enjoyed than used. The order of things
should be somewhat reversed; the seventh should be man's day of toil,
wherein to earn his living by the sweat of his brow; and the other six
his Sabbath of the affections and the soul,--in which to range this
widespread garden, and drink in the soft influences and sublime
revelations of Nature.... The spirit we are considering is not
altogether and without exception bad. We rejoice in it as one more
indication of the entire and universal freedom that characterizes the
age in which we live,--as an indication that the human race is making
one more advance in that infinite series of progressions which awaits
it. We glory in those very excesses which are a source of anxiety to
the wise and good; as an evidence that man will not always be the
slave of matter,--but ere long, casting off those earth-born desires
which identify him with the brute, shall pass the days of his sojourn
in this his nether paradise, as becomes the Lord of Creation."[6]

This passage is noteworthy as showing how early the philosophic mind
was developed in Thoreau, and how much his thought and expression were
influenced by Emerson's first book,--"Nature." But the soil in which
that germinating seed fell was naturally prepared to receive it; and
the wide diversity between the master and the disciple soon began to
appear. In 1863, reviewing Thoreau's work, Emerson said, "That oaken
strength which I noted whenever he walked or worked, or surveyed
wood-lots,--the same unhesitating hand with which a field-laborer
accosts a piece of work which I should shun as a waste of strength,
Henry shows in his literary task. He has muscle, and ventures on and
performs feats which I am forced to decline. In reading him I find the
same thoughts, the same spirit that is in me; but he takes a step
beyond, and illustrates by excellent images that which I should have
conveyed in a sleepy generalization." True as this is, it omits one
point of difference only too well known to Emerson,--the controversial
turn of Thoreau's mind, in which he was so unlike Emerson and Alcott,
and which must have given to his youthful utterances in company the
air of something requiring an apology.

This, at all events, seems to have been the feeling of Helen
Thoreau,[7] whose pride in her brother was such that she did not wish
to see him misunderstood. A pleasing indication of both these traits
is seen in the first extant letter of Thoreau to this sister. I have
this in an autograph copy made by Mr. Emerson, when he was preparing
the letters for partial publication, soon after Henry's death. For
some reason he did not insert it in his volume; but it quite deserves
to be printed, as indicating the period when it was clear to Thoreau
that he must think for himself, whatever those around him might think.


TO HELEN THOREAU (AT TAUNTON).

     CONCORD, October 27, 1837.

DEAR HELEN,--Please you, let the defendant say a few words in defense
of his long silence. You know we have hardly done our own deeds,
thought our own thoughts, or lived our own lives hitherto. For a man
to act himself, he must be perfectly free; otherwise he is in danger
of losing all sense of responsibility or of self-respect. Now when
such a state of things exists, that the sacred opinions one advances
in argument are apologized for by his friends, before his face, lest
his hearers receive a wrong impression of the man,--when such gross
injustice is of frequent occurrence, where shall we look, and not look
in vain, for men, deeds, thoughts? As well apologize for the grape
that it is sour, or the thunder that it is noisy, or the lightning
that it tarries not.

Further, letter-writing too often degenerates into a communicating of
facts, and not of truths; of other men's deeds and not our thoughts.
What are the convulsions of a planet, compared with the emotions of
the soul? or the rising of a thousand suns, if that is not enlightened
by a ray?

     Your affectionate brother,
     HENRY.

It is presumed the tender sister did not need a second lesson; and
equally that Henry did not see fit always to write such letters as he
praised above,--for he was quite ready to give his correspondents
facts, no less than thoughts, especially in his family letters.

Next to this epistle, chronologically, comes one in the conventional
dialect of the American Indian, as handed down by travelers and
romancers, by Jefferson, Chateaubriand, Lewis, Clarke, and Fenimore
Cooper. John Thoreau, Henry's brother, was born in 1815 and died
January 11, 1842. He was teaching at Taunton in 1837.


TO JOHN THOREAU (AT TAUNTON).

(Written as from one Indian to another.)

MUSKETAQUID, 202 Summers, two Moons, eleven Suns, since the coming of
the Pale Faces.

(November 11, 1837.)

TAHATAWAN, Sachimaussan, to his brother sachem, Hopeful of
Hopewell,--hoping that he is well:--

Brother: It is many suns that I have not seen the print of thy
moccasins by our council-fire; the Great Spirit has blown more leaves
from the trees, and many clouds from the land of snows have visited
our lodge; the earth has become hard, like a frozen buffalo-skin, so
that the trampling of many herds is like the Great Spirit's thunder;
the grass on the great fields is like the old man of many winters, and
the small song sparrow prepares for his flight to the land whence the
summer comes.

Brother: I write these things because I know that thou lovest the
Great Spirit's creatures, and wast wont to sit at thy lodge-door, when
the maize was green, to hear the bluebird's song. So shalt thou, in
the land of spirits, not only find good hunting-grounds and sharp
arrowheads, but much music of birds.

Brother: I have been thinking how the Pale-Faces have taken away our
lands,--and was a woman. You are fortunate to have pitched your wigwam
nearer to the great salt lake, where the Pale-Face can never plant
corn.

Brother: I need not tell thee how we hunted on the lands of the
Dundees,--a great war-chief never forgets the bitter taunts of his
enemies. Our young men called for strong water; they painted their
faces and dug up the hatchet. But their enemies, the Dundees, were
women; they hastened to cover their hatchets with wampum. Our braves
are not many; our enemies took a few strings from the heap their
fathers left them, and our hatchets are buried. But not Tahatawan's;
his heart is of rock when the Dundees sing,--his hatchet cuts deep
into the Dundee braves.

Brother: There is dust on my moccasins; I have journeyed to the White
Lake, in the country of the Ninares.[8] The Long-Knife has been
there,--like a woman I paddled his war-canoe. But the spirits of my
fathers were angered; the waters were ruffled, and the Bad Spirit
troubled the air.

The hearts of the Lee-vites are gladdened; the young Peacock has
returned to his lodge at Naushawtuck. He is the Medicine of his tribe,
but his heart is like the dry leaves when the whirlwind breathes. He
has come to help choose new chiefs for the tribe, in the great
council-house, when two suns are past.--There is no seat for Tahatawan
in the council-house. He lets the squaws talk,--his voice is heard
above the war-whoop of his tribe, piercing the hearts of his foes; his
legs are stiff, he cannot sit.

Brother: Art thou waiting for the spring, that the geese may fly low
over thy wigwam? Thy arrows are sharp, thy bow is strong. Has Anawan
killed all the eagles? The crows fear not the winter. Tahatawan's eyes
are sharp,--he can track a snake in the grass, he knows a friend from
a foe; he welcomes a friend to his lodge though the ravens croak.

Brother: Hast thou studied much in the medicine-books of the
Pale-Faces? Dost thou understand the long talk of the Medicine whose
words are like the music of the mockingbird? But our chiefs have not
ears to hear him; they listen like squaws to the council of old
men,--they understand not his words. But, Brother, he never danced the
war-dance, nor heard the war-whoop of his enemies. He was a squaw; he
stayed by the wigwam when the braves were out, and tended the tame
buffaloes.

Fear not; the Dundees have faint hearts and much wampum. When the
grass is green on the Great Fields, and the small titmouse returns
again, we will hunt the buffalo together.

Our old men say they will send the young chief of the Karlisles, who
lives in the green wigwam and is a great Medicine, that his word may
be heard in the long talk which the wise men are going to hold at
Shawmut, by the salt lake. He is a great talk, and will not forget the
enemies of his tribe.

14th Sun. The fire has gone out in the council-house. The words of our
old men have been like the vaunts of the Dundees. The Eagle-Beak was
moved to talk like a silly Pale-Face, and not as becomes a great
war-chief in a council of braves. The young Peacock is a woman among
braves; he heard not the words of the old men,--like a squaw he looked
at his medicine-paper.[9] The young chief of the green wigwam has
hung up his moccasins; he will not leave his tribe till after the
buffalo have come down on to the plains.

Brother: This is a long talk, but there is much meaning to my words;
they are not like the thunder of canes when the lightning smites them.
Brother, I have just heard _thy talk_ and am well pleased; thou art
getting to be a great Medicine. The Great Spirit confound the enemies
of thy tribe.

     TAHATAWAN.

     His mark [a bow and arrow].

This singular letter was addressed to John Thoreau at Taunton, and was
so carefully preserved in the family that it must have had value in
their eyes, as recalling traits of the two Thoreau brothers, and also
events in the village life of Concord, more interesting to the young
people of 1837 than to the present generation. Some of its parables
are easy to read, others quite obscure. The annual State election was
an important event to Henry Thoreau then,--more so than it afterwards
appeared; and he was certainly on the Whig side in politics, like most
of the educated youths of Concord. His "young chief of the Karlisles"
was Albert Nelson, son of a Carlisle physician, who began to practice
law in Concord in 1836, and was afterwards chief justice of the
Superior Court of the County of Suffolk. He was defeated at the
election of 1837, as a Whig candidate for the legislature, by a
Democrat. Henry Vose, above named, writing from "Butternuts," in New
York, three hundred miles west of Concord, October 22, 1837, said to
Thoreau: "You envy my happy situation, and mourn over your fate, which
condemns you to loiter about Concord and grub among clamshells [for
Indian relics]. If this were your only source of enjoyment while in
Concord,--but I know that it is not. I well remember that 'antique and
fish-like' office of _Major_ Nelson (to whom, and to Mr. Dennis, and
Bemis, and John Thoreau, I wish to be remembered); and still more
vividly do I remember the fairer portion of the community in C." This
indicates a social habit in Henry and John Thoreau, which the Indian
"talk" also implies. Tahatawan, whom Henry here impersonated, was the
mythical Sachem of Musketaquid (the Algonquin name for Concord River
and region), whose fishing and hunting lodge was on the hill
Naushawtuck, between the two rivers so much navigated by the Thoreaus.
In 1837 the two brothers were sportsmen, and went shooting over the
Concord meadows and moors, but of course the "buffalo" was a figure of
speech; they never shot anything larger than a raccoon. A few years
later they gave up killing the game.


TO JOHN THOREAU (AT TAUNTON).

     CONCORD, February 10, 1838.

DEAR JOHN,--Dost expect to elicit a spark from so dull a steel as
myself, by that flinty subject of thine? Truly, one of your copper
percussion caps would have fitted this nail-head better.

Unfortunately, the "Americana"[10] has hardly two words on the
subject. The process is very simple. The stone is struck with a mallet
so as to produce pieces sharp at one end, and blunt at the other.
These are laid upon a steel line (probably a chisel's edge), and again
struck with the mallet, and flints of the required size are broken
off. A skillful workman may make a thousand in a day.

So much for the "Americana." Dr. Jacob Bigelow in his "Technology,"
says, "Gunflints are formed by a skillful workman, who breaks them out
with a hammer, a roller, and steel chisel, with small, repeated
strokes."

Your ornithological commission shall be executed. When are you coming
home?

     Your affectionate brother,
     HENRY D. THOREAU.


TO JOHN THOREAU (AT TAUNTON).

     CONCORD, March 17, 1838.

DEAR JOHN,--Your box of relics came safe to hand, but was speedily
deposited on the carpet, I assure you. What could it be? Some
declared it must be Taunton herrings: "Just nose it, sir!" So down we
went on to our knees, and commenced smelling in good earnest,--now
horizontally from this corner to that, now perpendicularly from the
carpet up, now diagonally,--and finally with a sweeping movement
describing the circumference. But it availed not. Taunton herring
would not be smelled. So we e'en proceeded to open it _vi et chisel_.
What an array of nails! Four nails make a quarter, four quarters a
yard,--i' faith, this is n't cloth measure! Blaze away, old boy! Clap
in another wedge, then! There, softly! she begins to gape. Just give
that old stickler, with a black hat on, another hoist. Aye, we'll pare
his nails for him! Well done, old fellow, there's a breathing-hole for
you. "Drive it in!" cries one; "Nip it off!" cries another. Be easy, I
say. What's done may be undone. Your richest veins don't lie nearest
the surface. Suppose we sit down and enjoy the prospect, for who knows
but we may be disappointed? When they opened Pandora's box, all the
contents escaped except Hope, but in this case hope is uppermost, and
will be the first to escape when the box is opened. However, the
general voice was for kicking the coverlid off.

The relics have been arranged numerically on a table. When shall we
set up housekeeping? Miss Ward thanks you for her share of the spoils;
also accept many thanks from your humble servant "for yourself."

I have a proposal to make. Suppose by the time you are released we
should start in company for the West, and there either establish a
school jointly, or procure ourselves separate situations. Suppose,
moreover, you should get ready to start previous to leaving Taunton,
to save time. Go _I_ must, at all events. Dr. Jarvis enumerates nearly
a dozen schools which I could have,--all such as would suit you
equally well.[11] I wish you would write soon about this. It is high
season to start. The canals are now open, and traveling comparatively
cheap. I think I can borrow the cash in this town. There's nothing
like trying.

Brigham wrote you a few words on the 8th, which father took the
liberty to read, with the advice and consent of the family. He wishes
you to send him those [numbers] of the "Library of Health" received
since 1838, if you are in Concord; otherwise, he says you need not
trouble yourself about it at present. He is in C., and enjoying better
health than usual. But one number, and that you have, has been
received.

The bluebirds made their appearance the 14th day of March; robins and
pigeons have also been seen. Mr. Emerson has put up the bluebird-box
in due form. All send their love.

     From your aff. br.
     H. D. THOREAU.

[Postscript by Helen Thoreau.]

DEAR JOHN,--Will you have the kindness to inquire at Mr. Marston's for
an old singing-book I left there,--the "Handel and Haydn Collection,"
without a cover? Have you ever got those red handkerchiefs? Much love
to the Marstons, Crockers, and Muenschers. Mr. Josiah Davis has
failed. Mr. and Mrs. Howe have both written again, urging my going to
Roxbury; which I suppose I shall do. What day of the month shall you
return?

     HELEN.

One remark in this letter calls for attention,--that concerning the
"bluebird-box" for Mr. Emerson. In 1853 Emerson wrote in his journal:
"Long ago I wrote of Gifts, and neglected a capital example. John
Thoreau, Jr., one day put a bluebird's box on my barn,--fifteen years
ago it must be,--and there it still is, with every summer a melodious
family in it, adorning the place and singing his praises. There's a
gift for you,--which cost the giver no money, but nothing which he
bought could have been so good. I think of another, quite inestimable.
John Thoreau knew how much I should value a head of little Waldo, then
five years old. He came to me and offered to take him to a
daguerreotypist who was then in town, and he (Thoreau) would see it
well done. He did it, and brought me the daguerre, which I thankfully
paid for. A few months after, my boy died; and I have since to thank
John Thoreau for that wise and gentle piece of friendship."

Little Waldo Emerson died January 27, 1842, and John Thoreau the same
month; so that this taking of the portrait must have been but a few
months before his own death, January 11. Henry Thoreau was then living
in the Emerson family.


TO JOHN THOREAU (AT WEST ROXBURY).

     CONCORD, July 8, 1838.

DEAR JOHN,--We heard from Helen to-day, and she informs us that you
are coming home by the first of August. Now I wish you to write and
let me know exactly when your vacation takes place, that I may take
one at the same time. I am in school from 8 to 12 in the morning, and
from 2 to 4 in the afternoon. After that I read a little Greek or
English, or, for variety, take a stroll in the fields. We have not had
such a year for berries this long time,--the earth is actually blue
with them. High blueberries, three kinds of low, thimble- and
raspberries constitute my diet at present. (Take notice,--I only diet
between meals.) Among my deeds of charity, I may reckon the picking of
a cherry tree for two helpless single ladies, who live under the hill;
but i' faith, it was robbing Peter to pay Paul,--for while I was
exalted in charity towards them, I had no mercy on my own stomach. Be
advised, my love for currants continues.

The only addition that I have made to my stock of ornithological
information is in the shape not of a _Fring. melod._,--but surely a
melodious Fringilla,--the _F. juncorum_, or rush-sparrow. I had long
known him by note, but never by name.

Report says that Elijah Stearns is going to take the town school. I
have four scholars, and one more engaged. Mr. Fenner left town
yesterday. Among occurrences of ill omen may be mentioned the falling
out and cracking of the inscription stone of Concord Monument.[12]
Mrs. Lowell and children are at Aunts'. Peabody [a college classmate]
walked up last Wednesday, spent the night, and took a stroll in the
woods.

Sophia says I must leave off and pen a few lines for her to Helen: so
good-by. Love from all, and among them your aff. brother,

     H. D. T.

The school above mentioned as begun by Henry Thoreau in this summer of
1838 was joined in by John, after finishing his teaching at West
Roxbury, and was continued for several years. It was in this school
that Louisa Alcott and her sister received some instruction, after
their father removed from Boston to Concord, in the spring of 1840. It
was opened in the Parkman house, where the family then lived, and soon
after was transferred to the building of the Concord Academy,[13] not
far off. John Thoreau taught the English branches and mathematics;
Henry taught Latin and Greek and the higher mathematics,--and it was
the custom of both brothers to go walking with their pupils one
afternoon each week. It is as a professional schoolmaster that Henry
thus writes to his sister Helen, then teaching at Roxbury, after a
like experience in Taunton.

  [Illustration: _Concord Battle-Ground_]


TO HELEN THOREAU (AT ROXBURY).

     CONCORD, October 6, 1838.

DEAR HELEN,--I dropped Sophia's letter into the box immediately on
taking yours out, else the tone of the former had been changed.

I have no acquaintance with "Cleaveland's First Lessons," though I
have peeped into his abridged grammar, which I should think very well
calculated for beginners,--at least for such as would be likely to
wear out one book before they would be prepared for the abstruser
parts of grammar. Ahem!

As no one can tell what was the Roman pronunciation, each nation makes
the Latin conform, for the most part, to the rules of its own
language; so that with us of the vowels only A has a peculiar sound.
In the end of a word of more than one syllable it is sounded like
"ah," as _pennah_, _Lydiah_, _Hannah_, etc., without regard to case;
but "_da_" is never sounded "_dah_," because it is a monosyllable. All
terminations in _es_, and plural cases in _os_, as you know, are
pronounced long,--as _homines_ (hominese), _dominos_ (dominose), or,
in English, _Johnny Vose_. For information, see Adams' "Latin
Grammar," before the Rudiments.

This is all law and gospel in the eyes of the world; but remember I am
speaking, as it were, in the third person, and should sing quite a
different tune if it were I that had made the quire. However, one must
occasionally hang his harp on the willows, and play on the Jew's harp,
in such a strange country as this.

One of your young ladies wishes to study mental philosophy, hey?
Well, tell her that she has the very best text-book that I know of in
her possession already. If she do not believe it, then she should have
bespoken another better in another world, and not have expected to
find one at "Little & Wilkins." But if she wishes to know how poor an
apology for a mental philosophy men have tacked together,
synthetically or analytically, in these latter days,--how they have
squeezed the infinite mind into a compass that would not nonplus a
surveyor of Eastern Lands--making Imagination and Memory to lie still
in their respective apartments like ink-stand and wafers in a lady's
escritoire,--why let her read Locke, or Stewart, or Brown. The fact
is, mental philosophy is very like Poverty, which, you know, begins at
home; and indeed, when it goes abroad, it is poverty itself.

_Chorus._ I should think an abridgment of one of the above authors, or
of Ambercrombie, would answer her purpose. It may set her a-thinking.
Probably there are many systems in the market of which I am ignorant.

As for themes, say first "Miscellaneous Thoughts." Set one up to a
window, to note what passes in the street, and make her comments
thereon; or let her gaze in the fire, or into a corner where there is
a spider's web, and philosophize, moralize, theorize, or what not.
What their hands find to putter about, or their minds to think about,
that let them write about. To say nothing of advantage or disadvantage
of this, that, or the other, let them set down their ideas at any
given season, preserving the chain of thought as complete as may be.

This is the style pedagogical. I am much obliged to you for your piece
of information. Knowing your dislike to a sentimental letter, I remain

     Your affectionate brother,
     H. D. T.

The next letter to Helen carries this pedagogical style a little
farther, for it is in Latin, addressed "Ad Helenam L. Thoreau,
Roxbury, Mass.," and postmarked "Concord, Jan. 25" (1840).


TO HELEN THOREAU (AT ROXBURY).

     CONCORDIAE, Dec. Kal. Feb. A. D. MDCCCXL.

CARA SOROR,--Est magnus acervus nivis ad limina, et frigus
intolerabile intus. Coelum ipsum ruit, credo, et terram operit. Sero
stratum linquo et mature repeto; in fenestris multa pruina prospectum
absumit; et hic miser scribo, non currente calamo, nam digiti
mentesque torpescunt. Canerem cum Horatio, si vox non faucibus
haeserit,--

     Vides ut alta stet nive candidum
     Nawshawtuct, nec jam sustineant onus
       Silvae laborantes, geluque
       Flumina constiterint acuto?

     Dissolve frigus, ligna super foco
     Large reponens, etc.

Sed olim, Musa mutata, et laetiore plectro,

     Neque jam stabulis gaudet pecus, aut arator igne,
             Nec prata canis albicant pruinis;
     Jam Cytherea choros ducit Venus imminente luna.

Quam turdus ferrugineus ver reduxerit, tu, spero, linques curas
scholasticas, et, negotio religato, desipere in loco audebis; aut
mecum inter sylvas, aut super scopulos Pulchri-Portus, aut in cymba
super lacum Waldensem, mulcens fluctus manu, aut speciem miratus sub
undas.

Bulwerius est mihi nomen incognitum,--unus ex ignobile vulgo, nec
refutandus nec laudandus. Certe alicui nonnullam honorem habeo qui
insanabili cacoethe scribendi teneatur.

Specie flagrantis Lexingtonis non somnia deturbat? At non Vulcanum
Neptunumque culpemus, cum superstitioso grege. Natura curat
animalculis aeque ac hominibus; cum serena, tum procellosa, amica est.

Si amas historiam et fortia facta heroum, non depone Rollin, precor;
ne Clio offendas nunc, nec illa det veniam olim. Quos libros Latinos
legis? legis, inquam, non studes. Beatus qui potest suos libellos
tractare, et saepe perlegere, sine metu domini urgentis! ab otio
injurioso procul est: suos amicos et vocare et dimittere quandocunque
velit, potest. Bonus liber opus nobilissimum hominis. Hinc ratio non
modo cur legeres, sed cur tu quoque scriberes; nec lectores carent;
ego sum. Si non librum meditaris, libellum certe. Nihil posteris
proderit te spirasse, et vitam nunc leniter nunc aspere egisse; sed
cogitasse praecipue et scripsisse. Vereor ne tibi pertaesum hujus
epistolae sit; necnon alma lux caret,

     Majoresque cadunt altis de montibus umbrae.

Quamobrem vale,--imo valete, et requiescatis placide, Sorores.

     H. D. THOREAUS.

Memento scribere!

CARA SOPHIA,--Samuel Niger crebris aegrotationibus, quae agilitatem et
aequum animum abstulere, obnoxius est; iis temporibus ad cellam
descendit, et multas horas (ibi) manet.

Flores, ah crudelis pruina! parvo leti discrimine sunt. Cactus frigore
ustus est, gerania vero adhuc vigent.

Conventus sociabiles hac hieme reinstituti fuere. Conveniunt (?) ad
meum domum mense quarto vel quinto, ut tu hic esse possis. Matertera
Sophia cum nobis remanet; quando urbem revertet non scio. Gravedine
etiamnum, sed non tam aegre, laboramus.

Adolescentula E. White apud pagum paulisper moratur. Memento scribere
intra duas hebdomedas.

Te valere desiderium est

     Tui Matris,
     C. THOREAUS.

P. S. Epistolam die solis proxima expectamus. (Amanuense, H. D. T.)

Barring a few slips, this is a good and lively piece of Latin, and
noticeable for its thought as well as its learning and humor. The
poets were evidently his favorites among Latin authors. Shall we
attempt a free translation, such as Thoreau would give?


VERNACULAR VERSION.

     CONCORD, January 23, 1840.

DEAR SISTER,--There is a huge snow-drift at the door, and the cold
inside is intolerable. The very sky is coming down, I guess, and
covering up the ground. I turn out late in the morning, and go to bed
early; there is thick frost on the windows, shutting out the view; and
here I write in pain, for fingers and brains are numb. I would chant
with Horace, if my voice did not stick in my throat,--

     See how Naushawtuct, deep in snow,
     Stands glittering, while the bending woods
     Scarce bear their burden, and the floods
     Feel arctic winter stay their flow.

     Pile on the firewood, melt the cold,
     Spare nothing, etc.

But soon, changing my tune, and with a cheerfuller note, I'll say,--

     No longer the flock huddles up in the stall, the plowman bends
       over the fire,
     No longer frost whitens the meadow;
     But the goddess of love, while the moon shines above,
     Sets us dancing in light and in shadow.

When Robin Redbreast brings back the springtime, I trust that you will
lay your school duties aside, cast off care, and venture to be gay now
and then; roaming with me in the woods, or climbing the Fair Haven
cliffs,--or else, in my boat on Walden, let the water kiss your hand,
or gaze at your image in the wave.

Bulwer is to me a name unknown,--one of the unnoticed crowd,
attracting neither blame nor praise. To be sure, I hold any one in
some esteem who is helpless in the grasp of the writing demon.

Does not the image of the Lexington afire trouble your dreams?[14] But
we may not, like the superstitious mob, blame Vulcan or
Neptune,--neither fire nor water was in fault. Nature takes as much
care for midgets as for mankind; she is our friend in storm and in
calm.

If you like history, and the exploits of the brave, don't give up
Rollin, I beg; thus would you displease Clio, who might not forgive
you hereafter. What Latin are you reading? I mean _reading_, not
studying. Blessed is the man who can have his library at hand, and oft
peruse the books, without the fear of a taskmaster! he is far enough
from harmful idleness, who can call in and dismiss these friends when
he pleases. An honest book's the noblest work of man. There's a
reason, now, not only for your reading, but for writing something,
too. You will not lack readers,--here am I, for one. If you cannot
compose a volume, then try a tract. It will do the world no good,
hereafter, if you merely exist, and pass life smoothly or roughly; but
to have thoughts, and write them down, that helps greatly.

I fear you will tire of this epistle; the light of day is dwindling,
too,--

     And longer fall the shadows of the hills.

Therefore, good-by; fare ye well, and sleep in quiet, both my sisters!
Don't forget to write.

     H. D. THOREAU.


POSTSCRIPT. (BY MRS. THOREAU.)

DEAR SOPHIA,--Sam Black [the cat] is liable to frequent attacks that
impair his agility and good-nature; at such times he goes down cellar,
and stays many hours. Your flowers--O, the cruel frost!--are all but
dead; the cactus is withered by cold, but the geraniums yet flourish.
The Sewing Circle has been revived this winter; they meet at our house
in April or May, so that you may then be here. Your Aunt Sophia
remains with us,--when she will return to the city I don't know. We
still suffer from heavy colds, but not so much. Young Miss E. White is
staying in the village a little while (is making a little visit in
town). Don't forget to write within two weeks. We expect a letter next
Sunday.

That you may enjoy good health is the prayer of

     Your mother,
     C. THOREAU.

(H. D. T. was the scribe.)

Cats were always an important branch of the Thoreaus' domestic
economy, and Henry was more tolerant of them than men are wont to be.
Flowers were the specialty of Sophia, who, when I knew her, from 1855
to 1876, usually had a small conservatory in a recess of the
dining-room. At this time (1840) she seems to have been aiding Helen
in her school. The next letter, to Helen, is of a graver tone:--


TO HELEN THOREAU (AT ROXBURY).

     CONCORD, June 13, 1840.

DEAR HELEN,--That letter to John, for which you had an opportunity
doubtless to substitute a more perfect communication, fell, as was
natural, into the hands of his "transcendental brother," who is his
proxy in such cases, having been commissioned to acknowledge and
receipt all bills that may be presented. But what's in a name? Perhaps
it does not matter whether it be John or Henry. Nor will those same
six months have to be altered, I fear, to suit his case as well. But
methinks they have not passed entirely without intercourse, provided
we have been sincere though humble worshipers of the same virtue in
the mean time. Certainly it is better that we should make ourselves
quite sure of such a communion as this by the only course which is
completely free from suspicion,--the coincidence of two earnest and
aspiring lives,--than run the risk of a disappointment by relying
wholly or chiefly on so meagre and uncertain a means as speech,
whether written or spoken, affords. How often, when we have been
nearest each other bodily, have we really been farthest off! Our
tongues were the witty foils with which we fenced each other off. Not
that we have not met heartily and with profit as members of one
family, but it was a small one surely, and not that other human
family. We have met frankly and without concealment ever, as befits
those who have an instinctive trust in one another, and the scenery of
whose outward lives has been the same, but never as prompted by an
earnest and affectionate desire to probe deeper our mutual natures.
Such intercourse, at least, if it has ever been, has not condescended
to the vulgarities of oral communication, for the ears are provided
with no lid as the eye is, and would not have been deaf to it in
sleep. And now glad am I, if I am not mistaken in imagining that some
such transcendental inquisitiveness has traveled post _thither_,--for,
as I observed before, where the bolt hits, thither was it aimed,--any
arbitrary direction notwithstanding.

Thus much, at least, our _kindred_ temperament of mind and body--and
long _family_-arity--have done for us, that we already find ourselves
standing on a solid and natural footing with respect to one another,
and shall not have to waste time in the so often unavailing endeavor
to arrive fairly at this simple ground.

Let us leave trifles, then, to accident; and politics, and finance,
and such gossip, to the moments when diet and exercise are cared for,
and speak to each other deliberately as out of one infinity into
another,--you there in time and space, and I here. For beside this
relation, all books and doctrines are no better than gossip or the
turning of a spit.

Equally to you and Sophia, from

     Your affectionate brother,
     H. D. THOREAU.

We come now to the period when Thoreau entered on more intimate
relations with Emerson. There was a difference of fourteen years in
their ages, which had hitherto separated them intellectually; but now
the young scholar, thinker, and naturalist had so fast advanced that
he could meet his senior on more equal terms, and each became
essential to the other. With all his prudence and common sense, in
which he surpassed most men, Emerson was yet lacking in some practical
faculties; while Thoreau was the most practical and handy person in
all matters of every-day life,--a good mechanic and gardener,
methodical in his habits, observant and kindly in the domestic world,
and attractive to children, who now were important members of the
Emerson household. He was therefore invited by Emerson to make his
house a home,--looking after the garden, the business affairs, and
performing the office of a younger brother or a grown-up son. The
invitation was accepted in April, 1841, and Thoreau remained in the
family, with frequent absences, until he went in May, 1843, to reside
with Mr. William Emerson, near New York, as the tutor of his sons.
During these two years much occurred of deep moment to the two
friends. Young Waldo Emerson, the beautiful boy, died, and just
before, John Thoreau, the sunny and hopeful brother, whom Henry seems
to have loved more than any human being. These tragedies brought the
bereaved nearer together, and gave to Mrs. Emerson in particular an
affection for Thoreau and a trust in him which made the intimate life
of the household move harmoniously, notwithstanding the independent
and eccentric genius of Thoreau.


TO MRS. LUCY BROWN[15] (AT PLYMOUTH).

     CONCORD, July 21, 1841.

DEAR FRIEND,--Don't think I need any prompting to write to you; but
what tough earthenware shall I put into my packet to travel over so
many hills, and thrid so many woods, as lie between Concord and
Plymouth? Thank fortune it is all the way down hill, so they will get
safely carried; and yet it seems as if it were writing against time
and the sun to send a letter east, for no natural force forwards it.
You should go dwell in the West, and then I would deluge you with
letters, as boys throw feathers into the air to see the wind take
them. I should rather fancy you at evening dwelling far away behind
the serene curtain of the West,--the home of fair weather,--than over
by the chilly sources of the east wind.

What quiet thoughts have you nowadays which will float on that east
wind to west, for so we may make our worst servants our
carriers,--what progress made from _can't_ to _can_, in practice and
theory? Under this category, you remember, we used to place all our
philosophy. Do you have any still, startling, well moments, in which
you think grandly, and speak with emphasis? Don't take this for
sarcasm, for not in a year of the gods, I fear, will such a golden
approach to plain speaking revolve again. But away with such fears; by
a few miles of travel we have not distanced each other's sincerity.

I grow savager and savager every day, as if fed on raw meat, and my
tameness is only the repose of untamableness. I dream of looking
abroad summer and winter, with free gaze, from some mountain-side,
while my eyes revolve in an Egyptian slime of health,--I to be nature
looking into nature with such easy sympathy as the blue-eyed grass in
the meadow looks in the face of the sky. From some such recess I would
put forth sublime thoughts daily, as the plant puts forth leaves.
Now-a-nights I go on to the hill to see the sun set, as one would go
home at evening; the bustle of the village has run on all day, and
left me quite in the rear; but I see the sunset, and find that it can
wait for my slow virtue.

But I forget that you think more of this human nature than of this
nature I praise. Why won't you believe that mine is more human than
any single man or woman can be? that in it, in the sunset there, are
all the qualities that can adorn a household, and that sometimes, in a
fluttering leaf, one may hear all your Christianity preached.

You see how unskillful a letter-writer I am, thus to have come to the
end of my sheet when hardly arrived at the beginning of my story. I
was going to be soberer, I assure you, but now have only room to add,
that if the fates allot you a serene hour, don't fail to communicate
some of its serenity to your friend,

     HENRY D. THOREAU.

No, no. Improve so rare a gift for yourself, and send me of your
leisure.


TO MRS. LUCY BROWN (AT PLYMOUTH).

     CONCORD, Wednesday evening,
     September 8, [1841.]

DEAR FRIEND,--Your note came wafted to my hand like the first leaf of
the fall on the September wind, and I put only another interpretation
upon its lines than upon the veins of those which are soon to be
strewed around me. It is nothing but Indian summer here at present. I
mean that any weather seems reserved expressly for our late purposes
whenever we happen to be fulfilling them. I do not know what right I
have to so much happiness, but rather hold it in reserve till the time
of my desert.

What with the crickets and the crowing of cocks, and the lowing of
kine, our Concord life is sonorous enough. Sometimes I hear the cock
bestir himself on his perch under my feet, and crow shrilly before
dawn; and I think I might have been born any year for all the
phenomena I know. We count sixteen eggs daily now, when arithmetic
will only fetch the hens up to thirteen; but the world is young, and
we wait to see this eccentricity complete its period.

My verses on Friendship are already printed in the _Dial_; not
expanded, but reduced to completeness by leaving out the long lines,
which always have, or should have, a longer or at least another sense
than short ones.

Just now I am in the mid-sea of verses, and they actually rustle
around me as the leaves would round the head of Autumnus himself
should he thrust it up through some vales which I know; but, alas!
many of them are but crisped and yellow leaves like his, I fear, and
will deserve no better fate than to make mould for new harvests. I see
the stanzas rise around me, verse upon verse, far and near, like the
mountains from Agiocochook, not all having a terrestrial existence as
yet, even as some of them may be clouds; but I fancy I see the gleam
of some Sebago Lake and Silver Cascade, at whose well I may drink one
day. I am as unfit for any practical purpose--I mean for the
furtherance of the world's ends--as gossamer for ship-timber; and I,
who am going to be a pencil-maker to-morrow,[16] can sympathize with
God Apollo, who served King Admetus for a while on earth. But I
believe he found it for his advantage at last,--as I am sure I shall,
though I shall hold the nobler part at least out of the service.

Don't attach any undue seriousness to this threnody, for I love my
fate to the very core and rind, and could swallow it without paring
it, I think. You ask if I have written any more poems? Excepting those
which Vulcan is now forging, I have only discharged a few more bolts
into the horizon,--in all, three hundred verses--and sent them, as I
may say, over the mountains to Miss Fuller, who may have occasion to
remember the old rhyme:--

     "Three scipen gode
     Comen mid than flode
     Three hundred cnihten."

But these are far more Vandalic than they. In this narrow sheet there
is not room even for one thought to root itself. But you must consider
this an odd leaf of a volume, and that volume

     Your friend,
     HENRY D. THOREAU.


TO MRS. LUCY BROWN (AT PLYMOUTH).

     CONCORD, October 5, 1841.

DEAR FRIEND,--I send you Williams's[17] letter as the last
remembrancer to one of those "whose acquaintance he had the pleasure
to form while in Concord." It came quite unexpectedly to me, but I was
very glad to receive it, though I hardly know whether my utmost
sincerity and interest can inspire a sufficient answer to it. I should
like to have you send it back by some convenient opportunity.

Pray let me know what you are thinking about any day,--what most
nearly concerns you. Last winter, you know, you did more than your
share of the talking, and I did not complain for want of an
opportunity. Imagine your stove-door out of order, at least, and then
while I am fixing it you will think of enough things to say.

What makes the value of your life at present? what dreams have you,
and what realizations? You know there is a high table-land which not
even the east wind reaches. Now can't we walk and chat upon its plane
still, as if there were no lower latitudes? Surely our two destinies
are topics interesting and grand enough for any occasion.

I hope you have many gleams of serenity and health, or, if your body
will grant you no positive respite, that you may, at any rate, enjoy
your sickness occasionally, as much as I used to tell of. But here is
the bundle going to be done up, so accept a "good-night" from

     HENRY D. THOREAU.


TO MRS. LUCY BROWN (AT PLYMOUTH).

     CONCORD, March 2, 1842.

DEAR FRIEND,--I believe I have nothing new to tell you, for what was
news you have learned from other sources. I am much the same person
that I was, who should be so much better; yet when I realize what has
transpired, and the greatness of the part I am unconsciously acting, I
am thrilled, and it seems as if there were none in history to match
it.

Soon after John's death I listened to a music-box, and if, at any
time, that event had seemed inconsistent with the beauty and harmony
of the universe, it was then gently constrained into the placid course
of nature by those steady notes, in mild and unoffended tone echoing
far and wide under the heavens. But I find these things more strange
than sad to me. What right have I to grieve, who have not ceased to
wonder? We feel at first as if some opportunities of kindness and
sympathy were lost, but learn afterward that any _pure grief_ is ample
recompense for all. That is, if we are faithful; for a great grief is
but sympathy with the soul that disposes events, and is as natural as
the resin on Arabian trees. Only Nature has a right to grieve
perpetually, for she only is innocent. Soon the ice will melt, and the
blackbirds sing along the river which he frequented, as pleasantly as
ever. The same everlasting serenity will appear in this face of God,
and we will not be sorrowful if he is not.

We are made happy when reason can discover no occasion for it. The
memory of some past moments is more persuasive than the experience of
present ones. There have been visions of such breadth and brightness
that these motes were invisible in their light.

I do not wish to see John ever again,--I mean him who is dead,--but
that other, whom only he would have wished to see, or to be, of whom
he was the imperfect representative. For we are not what we are, nor
do we treat or esteem each other for such, but for what we are capable
of being.

As for Waldo, he died as the mist rises from the brook, which the sun
will soon dart his rays through. Do not the flowers die every autumn?
He had not even taken root here. I was not startled to hear that he
was dead; it seemed the most natural event that could happen. His fine
organization demanded it, and nature gently yielded its request. It
would have been strange if he had lived. Neither will nature manifest
any sorrow at his death, but soon the note of the lark will be heard
down in the meadow, and fresh dandelions will spring from the old
stocks where he plucked them last summer.

I have been living ill of late, but am now doing better. How do you
live in that Plymouth world, nowadays?[18] Please remember me to Mary
Russell. You must not blame me if I do _talk to the clouds_, for I
remain

     Your friend,
     HENRY D. THOREAU.


TO MRS. LUCY BROWN (AT PLYMOUTH).

     CONCORD, January 24, 1843.

DEAR FRIEND,--The other day I wrote you a letter to go in Mrs.
Emerson's bundle, but, as it seemed unworthy, I did not send it, and
now, to atone for that, I am going to send this, whether it be worthy
or not. I will not venture upon news, for, as all the household are
gone to bed, I cannot learn what has been told you. Do you read any
noble verses nowadays? or do not verses still seem noble? For my own
part, they have been the only things I remembered, or that which
occasioned them, when all things else were blurred and defaced. All
things have put on mourning but they; for the elegy itself is some
victorious melody or joy escaping from the wreck.

It is a relief to read some true book, wherein all are equally
dead,--equally alive. I think the best parts of Shakespeare would only
be enchanced by the most thrilling and affecting events. I have found
it so. And so much the more, as they are not intended for consolation.

Do you think of coming to Concord again? I shall be glad to see you. I
should be glad to know that I could see you when I would.

We always seem to be living just on the brink of a pure and lofty
intercourse, which would make the ills and trivialness of life
ridiculous. After each little interval, though it be but for the
night, we are prepared to meet each other as gods and goddesses.

I seem to have dodged all my days with one or two persons, and lived
upon expectation,--as if the bud would surely blossom; and so I am
content to live.

What means the fact--which is so common, so universal--that some soul
that has lost all hope for itself can inspire in another listening
soul an infinite confidence in it, even while it is expressing its
despair?

I am very happy in my present environment, though actually mean enough
myself, and so, of course, all around me; yet, I am sure, we for the
most part are transfigured to one another, and are that to the other
which we aspire to be ourselves. The longest course of mean and
trivial intercourse may not prevent my practicing this divine courtesy
to my companion. Notwithstanding all I hear about brooms, and
scouring, and taxes, and housekeeping, I am constrained to live a
strangely mixed life,--as if even Valhalla might have its kitchen. We
are all of us Apollos serving some Admetus.

I think I must have some Muses in my pay that I know not of, for
certain musical wishes of mine are answered as soon as entertained.
Last summer I went to Hawthorne's suddenly for the express purpose of
borrowing his music-box, and almost immediately Mrs. Hawthorne
proposed to lend it to me. The other day I said I must go to Mrs.
Barrett's to hear hers, and lo! straightway Richard Fuller sent me one
for a present from Cambridge. It is a very good one. I should like to
have you hear it. I shall not have to employ you to borrow for me now.
Good-night.

     From your affectionate friend,
     H. D. T.


TO RICHARD F. FULLER (AT CAMBRIDGE).

     CONCORD, January 16, 1843.

DEAR RICHARD,--I need not thank you for your present, for I hear its
music, which seems to be playing just for us two pilgrims marching
over hill and dale of a summer afternoon, up those long Bolton hills
and by those bright Harvard lakes, such as I see in the placid Lucerne
on the lid; and whenever I hear it, it will recall happy hours passed
with its donor.

When did mankind make that foray into nature and bring off this booty?
For certainly it is but history that some rare virtue in remote times
plundered these strains from above and communicated them to men.
Whatever we may think of it, it is a part of the harmony of the
spheres you have sent me; which has condescended to serve us
Admetuses, and I hope I may so behave that this may always be the
tenor of your thought for me.

If you have any strains, the conquest of your own spear or quill, to
accompany these, let the winds waft them also to me.

I write this with one of the "primaries" of my osprey's wings, which I
have preserved over my glass for some state occasion, and now it
offers.

Mrs. Emerson sends her love.


TO MRS. LUCY BROWN (AT PLYMOUTH).

     CONCORD, Friday evening,
     January 25, 1843.

DEAR FRIEND,--Mrs. Emerson asks me to write you a letter, which she
will put into her bundle to-morrow along with the "Tribunes" and
"Standards," and miscellanies, and what not, to make an assortment.
But what shall I write? You live a good way off, and I don't know that
I have anything which will bear sending so far. But I am mistaken, or
rather impatient when I say this,--for we all have a gift to send, not
only when the year begins, but as long as interest and memory last. I
don't know whether you have got the many I have sent you, or rather
whether you were quite sure where they came from. I mean the letters I
have sometimes launched off eastward in my thought; but if you have
been happier at one time than another, think that then you received
them. But this that I now send you is of another sort. It will go
slowly, drawn by horses over muddy roads, and lose much of its little
value by the way. You may have to pay for it, and it may not make you
happy after all. But what shall be my new-year's gift, then? Why, I
will send you my still fresh remembrance of the hours I have passed
with you here, for I find in the remembrance of them the best gift
you have left to me. We are poor and sick creatures at best; but we
can have well memories, and sound and healthy thoughts of one another
still, and an intercourse may be remembered which was without blur,
and above us both.

Perhaps you may like to know of my estate nowadays. As usual, I find
it harder to account for the happiness I enjoy, than for the sadness
which instructs me occasionally. If the little of this last which
visits me would only be sadder, it would be happier. One while I am
vexed by a sense of meanness; one while I simply wonder at the mystery
of life; and at another, and at another, seem to rest on my oars, as
if propelled by propitious breezes from I know not what quarter. But
for the most part I am an idle, inefficient, lingering (one term will
do as well as another, where all are true and none true enough) member
of the great commonwealth, who have most need of my own charity,--if I
could not be charitable and indulgent to myself, perhaps as good a
subject for my own satire as any. You see how, when I come to talk of
myself, I soon run dry, for I would fain make that a subject which can
be no subject for me, at least not till I have the grace to rule
myself.

I do not venture to say anything about your griefs, for it would be
unnatural for me to speak as if I grieved with you, when I think I do
not. If I were to see you, it might be otherwise. But I know you will
pardon the trivialness of this letter; and I only hope--as I know that
you have reason to be so--that you are still happier than you are
sad, and that you remember that the smallest seed of faith is of more
worth than the largest fruit of happiness. I have no doubt that out of
S----'s death you sometimes draw sweet consolation, not only for that,
but for long-standing griefs, and may find some things made smooth by
it, which before were rough.

I wish you would communicate with me, and not think me unworthy to
know any of your thoughts. Don't think me unkind because I have not
written to you. I confess it was for so poor a reason as that you
almost made a principle of not answering. I could not speak truly with
this ugly fact in the way; and perhaps I wished to be assured, by such
evidence as you could not voluntarily give, that it was a kindness.
For every glance at the moon, does she not send me an answering ray?
Noah would hardly have done himself the pleasure to release his dove,
if she had not been about to come back to him with tidings of green
islands amid the waste.

But these are far-fetched reasons. I am not speaking directly enough
to yourself now; so let me say _directly_

     From your friend,
     HENRY D. THOREAU.

Exactly when correspondence began between Emerson and Thoreau is not
now to be ascertained, since all the letters do not seem to have been
preserved. Their acquaintance opened while Thoreau was in college,
although Emerson may have seen the studious boy at the town school in
Concord, or at the "Academy" there, while fitting for college. But
they only came to know each other as sharers of the same thoughts and
aspirations in the autumn of 1837, when, on hearing a new lecture of
Emerson's, Helen Thoreau said to Mrs. Brown, then living or visiting
in the Thoreau family, "Henry has a thought very like that in his
journal" (which he had newly begun to keep). Mrs. Brown desired to see
the passage, and soon bore it to her sister, Mrs. Emerson, whose
husband saw it, and asked Mrs. Brown to bring her young friend to see
him. By 1838 their new relation of respect was established, and
Emerson wrote to a correspondent, "I delight much in my young friend,
who seems to have as free and erect a mind as any I have ever met." A
year later (Aug. 9, 1839), he wrote to Carlyle, "I have a young poet
in this village, named Thoreau, who writes the truest verses." Indeed,
it was in the years 1839-40 that he seems to have written the poems by
which he is best remembered. Thoreau told me in his last illness that
he had written many verses and destroyed many,--this fact he then
regretted, although he had done it at the instance of Emerson, who did
not praise them. "But," said he, "they may have been better than we
thought them, twenty years ago."

The earliest note which I find from Emerson to Thoreau bears no date,
but must have been written before 1842, for at no later time could the
persons named in it have visited Concord together. Most likely it was
in the summer of 1840, and to the same date do I assign a note asking
Henry to join the Emersons in a party to the Cliffs (_scopuli
Pulchri-Portus_), and to bring his flute,--for on that pastoral reed
Thoreau played sweetly. The first series of letters from Thoreau to
Emerson begins early in 1843, about the time the letters just given
were written to Mrs. Brown. In the first he gives thanks to Emerson
for the hospitality of his house in the two preceding years; a theme
to which he returned a few months later,--for I doubt not the lovely
sad poem called "The Departure" was written at Staten Island soon
after his leaving the Emerson house in Concord for the more stately
but less congenial residence of William Emerson at Staten Island,
whither he betook himself in May, 1843. This first letter, however,
was sent from the Concord home to Waldo Emerson at Staten Island, or
perhaps in New York, where he was that winter giving a course of
lectures.

In explanation of the passages concerning Bronson Alcott, in this
letter, it should be said that he was then living at the Hosmer
Cottage, in Concord, with his English friends, Charles Lane and Henry
Wright, and that he had refused to pay a tax in support of what he
considered an unjust government, and was arrested by the constable,
Sam Staples, in consequence.


TO R. W. EMERSON (AT NEW YORK).

     CONCORD, January 24, 1843.

DEAR FRIEND,--The best way to correct a mistake is to make it right. I
had not spoken of writing to you, but as you say you are about to
write to me when you get my letter, I make haste on my part in order
to get yours the sooner. I don't well know what to say to earn the
forthcoming epistle, unless that Edith takes rapid strides in the arts
and sciences--or music and natural history--as well as over the
carpet; that she says "papa" less and less abstractedly every day,
looking in _my_ face,--which may sound like a _Ranz des Vaches_ to
yourself. And Ellen declares every morning that "papa _may_ come home
to-night;" and by and by it will have changed to such positive
statement as that "papa came home _larks_ night."

Elizabeth Hoar still flits about these clearings, and I meet her here
and there, and in all houses but her own, but as if I were not the
less of her family for all that. I have made slight acquaintance also
with one Mrs. Lidian Emerson, who almost persuades me to be a
Christian, but I fear I as often lapse into heathenism. Mr.
O'Sullivan[19] was here three days. I met him at the Atheneum
[Concord], and went to Hawthorne's [at the Old Manse] to tea with him.
He expressed a great deal of interest in your poems, and wished me to
give him a list of them, which I did; he saying he did not know but he
should notice them. He is a rather puny-looking man, and did not
strike me. We had nothing to say to one another, and therefore we said
a great deal! He, however, made a point of asking me to write for his
Review, which I shall be glad to do. He is, at any rate, one of the
not-bad, but does not by any means take you by storm,--no, nor by
calm, which is the best way. He expects to see you in New York. After
tea I carried him and Hawthorne to the Lyceum.

Mr. Alcott has not altered much since you left. I think you will find
him much the same sort of person. With Mr. Lane I have had one regular
chat _à la_ George Minott, which of course was greatly to our mutual
grati- and edification; and, as two or three as regular conversations
have taken place since, I fear there may have been a precession of the
equinoxes. Mr. Wright, according to the last accounts, is in Lynn,
with uncertain aims and prospects,--maturing slowly, perhaps, as
indeed are all of us. I suppose they have told you how near Mr. Alcott
went to the jail, but I can add a good anecdote to the rest. When
Staples came to collect Mrs. Ward's taxes, my sister Helen asked him
what he thought Mr. Alcott meant,--what his idea was,--and he
answered, "I vum, I believe it was nothing but principle, for I never
heerd a man talk honester."

There was a lecture on Peace by a Mr. Spear (ought he not to be beaten
into a plowshare?), the same evening, and, as the gentlemen, Lane and
Alcott, dined at our house while the matter was in suspense,--that is,
while the constable was waiting for his receipt from the jailer,--we
there settled it that we, that is, Lane and myself, perhaps, should
agitate the State while Winkelried lay in durance. But when, over the
audience, I saw our hero's head moving in the free air of the
Universalist church, my fire all went out, and the State was safe as
far as I was concerned. But Lane, it seems, had cogitated and even
written on the matter, in the afternoon, and so, out of courtesy,
taking his point of departure from the Spear-man's lecture, he drove
gracefully _in medias res_, and gave the affair a very good setting
out; but, to spoil all, our martyr very characteristically, but, as
artists would say, in bad taste, brought up the rear with a "My
Prisons," which made us forget Silvio Pellico himself.

Mr. Lane wishes me to ask you to see if there is anything for him in
the New York office, and pay the charges. Will you tell me what to do
with Mr. [Theodore] Parker, who was to lecture February 15th? Mrs.
Emerson says my letter is written instead of one from her.

At the end of this strange letter I will not write--what alone I had
to say--to thank you and Mrs. Emerson for your long kindness to me. It
would be more ungrateful than my constant thought. I have been your
pensioner for nearly two years, and still left free as under the sky.
It has been as free a gift as the sun or the summer, though I have
sometimes molested you with my mean acceptance of it,--I who have
failed to render even those slight services of the _hand_ which would
have been for a sign at least; and, by the fault of my nature, have
failed of many better and higher services. But I will not trouble you
with this, but for once thank you as well as Heaven.

     Your friend, H. D. T.

Mrs. Lidian Emerson, the wife of R. W. Emerson, and her two daughters,
Ellen and Edith, are named in this first letter, and will be
frequently mentioned in the correspondence. At this date, Edith, now
Mrs. W. H. Forbes, was fourteen months old. Mr. Emerson's mother,
Madam Ruth Emerson, was also one of the household, which had for a
little more than seven years occupied the well-known house under the
trees, east of the village.


TO R. W. EMERSON (AT NEW YORK).

     CONCORD, February 10, 1843.

DEAR FRIEND,--I have stolen one of your own sheets to write you a
letter upon, and I hope, with two layers of ink, to turn it into a
comforter. If you like to receive a letter from me, too, I am glad,
for it gives me pleasure to write. But don't let it come amiss; it
must fall as harmlessly as leaves settle on the landscape. I will tell
you what we are doing this now. Supper is done, and Edith--the
dessert, perhaps more than the dessert--is brought in, or even comes
in _per se_; and round she goes, now to this altar, and then to that,
with her monosyllabic invocation of "oc," "oc." It makes me think of
"Langue d'oc." She must belong to that province. And like the gypsies
she talks a language of her own while she understands ours. While she
jabbers Sanskrit, Parsee, Pehlvi, say "Edith go bah!" and "bah" it is.
No intelligence passes between us. She knows. It is a capital
joke,--that is the reason she smiles so. How well the secret is kept!
she never descends to explanation. It is not buried liked a common
secret, bolstered up on two sides, but by an eternal silence on the
one side, at least. It has been long kept, and comes in from the
unexplored horizon, like a blue mountain range, to end abruptly at our
door one day. (Don't stumble at this steep simile.) And now she
studies the heights and depths of nature

     On shoulders whirled in some eccentric orbit
     Just by old Pæstum's temples and the perch
     Where Time doth plume his wings.

And now she runs the race over the carpet, while all Olympia
applauds,--mamma, grandma, and uncle, good Grecians all,--and that
dark-hued barbarian, Partheanna Parker, whose shafts go through and
through, not backward! Grandmamma smiles over all, and mamma is
wondering what papa would say, should she descend on Carlton House
some day. "Larks night" 's abed, dreaming of "pleased faces" far away.
But now the trumpet sounds, the games are over; some Hebe comes, and
Edith is translated. I don't know where; it must be to some cloud, for
I never was there.

_Query_: what becomes of the answers Edith thinks, but cannot express?
She really gives you glances which are before this world was. You
can't feel any difference of age, except that you have longer legs and
arms.

Mrs. Emerson said I must tell you about domestic affairs, when I
mentioned that I was going to write. Perhaps it will inform you of the
state of all if I only say that I am well and happy in your house here
in Concord.

     Your friend,
     HENRY.

Don't forget to tell us what to do with Mr. Parker when you write
next. I lectured this week. It was as bright a night as you could
wish. I hope there were no stars thrown away on the occasion.

[A part of the same letter, though bearing a date two days later, and
written in a wholly different style, as from one sage to another, is
this postscript:]


     February 12, 1843.

DEAR FRIEND,--As the packet still tarries, I will send you some
thoughts, which I have lately relearned, as the latest public and
private news.

How mean are our relations to one another! Let us pause till they are
nobler. A little silence, a little rest, is good. It would be
sufficient employment only to cultivate true ones.

The richest gifts we can bestow are the least marketable. We hate the
kindness which we understand. A noble person confers no such gift as
his whole confidence: none so exalts the giver and the receiver; it
produces the truest gratitude. Perhaps it is only essential to
friendship that some vital trust should have been reposed by the one
in the other. I feel addressed and probed even to the remote parts of
my being when one nobly shows, even in trivial things, an implicit
faith in me. When such divine commodities are so near and cheap, how
strange that it should have to be each day's discovery! A threat or a
curse may be forgotten, but this mild trust translates me. I am no
more of this earth; it acts dynamically; it changes my very substance.
I cannot do what before I did. I cannot be what before I was. Other
chains may be broken, but in the darkest night, in the remotest place,
I trail this thread. Then things cannot _happen_. What if God were to
confide in us for a moment! Should we not then be gods?

How subtle a thing is this confidence! Nothing sensible passes
between; never any consequences are to be apprehended should it be
misplaced. Yet something has transpired. A new behavior springs; the
ship carries new ballast in her hold. A sufficiently great and
generous trust could never be abused. It should be cause to lay down
one's life,--which would not be to lose it. Can there be any mistake
up there? Don't the gods know where to invest their wealth? Such
confidence, too, would be reciprocal. When one confides greatly in
you, he will feel the roots of an equal trust fastening themselves in
him. When such trust has been received or reposed, we dare not speak,
hardly to see each other; our voices sound harsh and untrustworthy. We
are as instruments which the Powers have dealt with. Through what
straits would we not carry this little burden of a magnanimous trust!
Yet no harm could possibly come, but simply faithlessness. Not a
feather, not a straw, is intrusted; that packet is empty. It is only
_committed_ to us, and, as it were, all things are committed to us.

The kindness I have longest remembered has been of this sort,--the
sort unsaid; so far behind the speaker's lips that almost it already
lay in my heart. It did not have far to go to be communicated. The
gods cannot misunderstand, man cannot explain. We communicate like the
burrows of foxes, in silence and darkness, under ground. We are
undermined by faith and love. How much more full is Nature where we
think the empty space is than where we place the solids!--full of
fluid influences. Should we ever communicate but by these? The spirit
abhors a vacuum more than Nature. There is a tide which pierces the
pores of the air. These aerial rivers, let us not pollute their
currents. What meadows do they course through? How many fine mails
there are which traverse their routes! He is privileged who gets his
letter franked by them.

I believe these things.

     HENRY D. THOREAU.

Emerson replied to these letters in two epistles of dates from
February 4 to 12, 1843,--in the latter asking Thoreau to aid him in
editing the April number of the _Dial_ of which he had taken charge.
Among other things, Emerson desired a manuscript of Charles Lane,
Alcott's English friend, to be sent to him in New York, where he was
detained several weeks by his lectures. He added: "Have we no news
from Wheeler? Has Bartlett none?" Of these persons, the first, Charles
Stearns Wheeler, a college classmate of Thoreau, and later Greek tutor
in the college, had gone to Germany,--where he died the next
summer,--and was contributing to the quarterly _Dial_. Robert
Bartlett, of Plymouth, a townsman of Mrs. Emerson, was Wheeler's
intimate friend, with whom he corresponded.[20] To this editorial
request Thoreau, who was punctuality itself, replied at once.


TO R. W. EMERSON (AT NEW YORK).

     CONCORD, February 15, 1843.

MY DEAR FRIEND,--I got your letters, one yesterday and the other
to-day, and they have made me quite happy. As a packet is to go in the
morning, I will give you a hasty account of the _Dial_. I called on
Mr. Lane this afternoon, and brought away, together with an abundance
of good-will, first, a bulky catalogue of books without
commentary,--some eight hundred, I think he told me, with an
introduction filling one sheet,--ten or a dozen pages, say, though I
have only glanced at them; second, a review--twenty-five or thirty
printed pages--of Conversations on the Gospels, Record of a School,
and Spiritual Culture, with rather copious extracts. However, it is a
good subject, and Lane says it gives him satisfaction. I will give it
a faithful reading directly. [These were Alcott's publications,
reviewed by Lane.] And now I come to the little end of the horn; for
myself, I have brought along the Minor Greek Poets, and will mine
there for a scrap or two, at least. As for Etzler, I don't remember
any "rude and snappish speech" that you made, and if you did it must
have been longer than anything I had written; however, here is the
book still, and I will try. Perhaps I have some few scraps in my
Journal which you may choose to print. The translation of the Æschylus
I should like very well to continue anon, if it should be worth the
while. As for poetry, I have not remembered to write any for some
time; it has quite slipped my mind; but sometimes I think I hear the
mutterings of the thunder. Don't you remember that last summer we
heard a low, tremulous sound in the woods and over the hills, and
thought it was partridges or rocks, and it proved to be thunder gone
down the river? But sometimes it was over Wayland way, and at last
burst over our heads. So we'll not despair by reason of the drought.
You see it takes a good many words to supply the place of one deed; a
hundred lines to a cobweb, and but one cable to a man-of-war. The
_Dial_ case needs to be reformed in many particulars. There is no news
from Wheeler, none from Bartlett.

They all look well and happy in this house, where it gives me much
pleasure to dwell.

     Yours in haste, HENRY.

P. S.

     Wednesday evening, February 16.

DEAR FRIEND,--I have time to write a few words about the _Dial_. I
have just received the three first signatures, which do not yet
complete Lane's piece. He will place five hundred copies for sale at
Munroe's bookstore. Wheeler has sent you two full sheets--more about
the German universities--and proper names, which will have to be
printed in alphabetical order for convenience; what this one has done,
that one is doing, and the other intends to do. Hammer-Purgstall (Von
Hammer) may be one, for aught I know. However, there are two or three
_things_ in it, as well as names. One of the books of Herodotus is
discovered to be out of place. He says something about having sent
Lowell, by the last steamer, a budget of literary news, which he will
have communicated to you ere this. Mr. Alcott has a letter from
Heraud,[21] and a book written by him,--the Life of Savonarola,--which
he wishes to have republished here. Mr. Lane will write a notice of
it. (The latter says that what is in the New York post-office _may_ be
directed to Mr. Alcott.) Miss [Elizabeth] Peabody has sent a "Notice
to the readers of the _Dial_" which is not good.

Mr. Chapin lectured this evening, and so rhetorically that I forgot my
duty and heard very little. I find myself better than I have been,
and am meditating some other method of paying debts than by lectures
and writing,--which will only do to talk about. If anything of that
"other" sort should come to your ears in New York, will you remember
it for me?

Excuse this scrawl, which I have written over the embers in the
dining-room. I hope that you live on good terms with yourself and the
gods.

     Yours in haste,       HENRY.

Mr. Lane and his lucubrations proved to be tough subjects, and the
next letter has more to say about them and the _Dial_. Lane had
undertaken to do justice to Mr. Alcott and his books, as may still be
read in the pages of that April number of the Transcendentalist
quarterly.


TO R. W. EMERSON (AT NEW YORK).

     CONCORD, February 20, 1843.

MY DEAR FRIEND,--I have read Mr. Lane's review, and _can_ say,
speaking for this world and for fallen man, that "it is good for us."
As they say in geology, time never fails, there is always enough of
it, so I may say, criticism never fails; but if I go and read
elsewhere, I say it is good,--far better than any notice Mr. Alcott
has received, or is likely to receive from another quarter. It is at
any rate "the other side" which Boston needs to hear. I do not send it
to you, because time is precious, and because I think you would accept
it, after all. After speaking briefly of the fate of Goethe and
Carlyle in their own countries, he says, "To Emerson in his own
circle is but slowly accorded a worthy response; and Alcott, almost
utterly neglected," etc. I will strike out what relates to yourself,
and correcting some verbal faults, send the rest to the printer with
Lane's initials.

The catalogue needs amendment, I think. It wants completeness now. It
should consist of such books only as they would tell Mr. [F. H.] Hedge
and [Theodore] Parker they had got; omitting the Bible, the classics,
and much besides,--for there the incompleteness begins. But you will
be here in season for this.

It is frequently easy to make Mr. Lane more universal and attractive;
to write, for instance, "universal ends" instead of "the universal
end," just as we pull open the petals of a flower with our fingers
where they are confined by its own sweets. Also he had better not say
"books designed for the nucleus of a _Home_ University," until he
makes that word "home" ring solid and universal too. This is that
abominable dialect. He had just given me a notice of George Bradford's
Fénelon for the Record of the Months, and speaks of extras of the
Review and Catalogue, if they are printed,--even a hundred, or
thereabouts. How shall this be arranged? Also he wishes to use some
manuscripts of his which are in your possession, if you do not. Can I
get them?

I think of no news to tell you. It is a serene summer day here, all
above the snow. The hens steal their nests, and I steal their eggs
still, as formerly. This is what I do with the hands. Ah, labor,--it
is a divine institution, and conversation with many men and hens.

Do not think that my letters require as many special answers. I get
one as often as you write to Concord. Concord inquires for you daily,
as do all the members of this house. You must make haste home before
we have settled all the great questions, for they are fast being
disposed of. But I must leave room for Mrs. Emerson.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mrs. Emerson's letter, after speaking of other matters, gave a lively
sketch of Thoreau at one of Alcott's Conversations in her house, which
may be quoted as illustrating the young Nature-worshiper's position at
the time, and the more humane and socialistic spirit of Alcott and
Lane, who were soon to leave Concord for their experiment of
communistic life at "Fruitlands," in the rural town of Harvard.

"Last evening we had the 'Conversation,' though, owing to the bad
weather, but few attended. The subjects were: What is Prophecy? Who is
a Prophet? and The Love of Nature. Mr. Lane decided, as for all time
and the race, that this same love of nature--of which Henry [Thoreau]
was the champion, and Elizabeth Hoar and Lidian (though L. disclaimed
possessing it herself) his faithful squiresses--that this love was the
most subtle and dangerous of sins; a refined idolatry, much more to be
dreaded than gross wickednesses, because the gross sinner would be
alarmed by the depth of his degradation, and come up from it in
terror, but the unhappy idolaters of Nature were deceived by the
refined quality of their sin, and would be the last to enter the
kingdom. Henry frankly affirmed to both the wise men that they were
wholly deficient in the faculty in question, and therefore could not
judge of it. And Mr. Alcott as frankly answered that it was because
they went beyond the mere material objects, and were filled with
spiritual love and perception (as Mr. T. was not), that they seemed to
Mr. Thoreau not to appreciate outward nature. I am very heavy, and
have spoiled a most excellent story. I have given you no idea of the
scene, which was ineffably comic, though it made no laugh at the time;
I scarcely laughed at it myself,--too deeply amused to give the usual
sign. Henry was brave and noble; well as I have always liked him, he
still grows upon me."

Before going to Staten Island in May, 1843, Thoreau answered a letter
from the same Richard Fuller who had made him the musical gift in the
previous winter. He was at Harvard College, and desired to know
something of Thoreau's pursuits there,--concerning which Channing says
in his Life,[22] "He was a respectable student, having done there a
bold reading in English poetry,--even to some portions or the whole of
Davenant's 'Gondibert.'" This, Thoreau does not mention in his letter,
but it was one of the things that attracted Emerson's notice, since he
also had the same taste for the Elizabethan and Jacobean English
poets. An English youth, Henry Headley, pupil of Dr. Parr, and
graduate of Oxford in 1786, had preceded Thoreau in this study of
poets that had become obsolete; and it was perhaps Headley's volume,
"Select Beauties of Ancient English Poetry, with Remarks by the late
Henry Headley," published long after his death,[23] that served
Thoreau as a guide to Quarles and the Fletchers, Daniel, Drummond,
Drayton, Habington, and Raleigh,--poets that few Americans had heard
of in 1833.


TO RICHARD F. FULLER (AT CAMBRIDGE).

     CONCORD, April 2, 1843.

DEAR RICHARD,--I was glad to receive a letter from you so bright and
cheery. You speak of not having made any conquests with your own spear
or quill as yet; but if you are tempering your spear-head during these
days, and fitting a straight and tough shaft thereto, will not that
suffice? We are more pleased to consider the hero in the forest
cutting cornel or ash for his spear, than marching in triumph with his
trophies. The present hour is always wealthiest when it is poorer than
the future ones, as that is the pleasantest site which affords the
pleasantest prospects.

What you say about your studies furnishing you with a "mimic idiom"
only, reminds me that we shall all do well if we learn so much as to
talk,--to speak truth. The only fruit which even much living yields
seems to be often only some trivial success,--the ability to do some
slight thing better. We make conquest only of husks and shells for
the most part,--at least apparently,--but sometimes these are cinnamon
and spices, you know. Even the grown hunter you speak of slays a
thousand buffaloes, and brings off only their hides and tongues. What
immense sacrifices, what hecatombs and holocausts, the gods exact for
very slight favors! How much sincere life before we can even utter one
sincere word.

What I was learning in college was chiefly, I think, to express
myself, and I see now, that as the old orator prescribed, 1st, action;
2d, action; 3d, action; my teachers should have prescribed to me, 1st,
sincerity; 2d, sincerity; 3d, sincerity. The old mythology is
incomplete without a god or goddess of sincerity, on whose altars we
might offer up all the products of our farms, our workshops, and our
studies. It should be our Lar when we sit on the hearth, and our
Tutelar Genius when we walk abroad. This is the only panacea. I mean
sincerity in our dealings with ourselves mainly; any other is
comparatively easy. But I must stop before I get to 17thly. I believe
I have but one text and one sermon.

Your rural adventures beyond the West Cambridge hills have probably
lost nothing by distance of time or space. I used to hear only the
sough of the wind in the woods of Concord, when I was striving to give
my attention to a page of calculus. But, depend upon it, you will love
your native hills the better for being separated from them.

I expect to leave Concord, which is my Rome, and its people, who are
my Romans, in May, and go to New York, to be a tutor in Mr. William
Emerson's family. So I will bid you good-by till I see you or hear
from you again.

       *       *       *       *       *

Going to Staten Island, early in May, 1843, Thoreau's first care was
to write to his "Romans, countrymen, and lovers by the banks of the
Musketaquid,"--beginning with his mother, his sisters, and Mrs.
Emerson. To Sophia and Mrs. E. he wrote May 22,--to Helen, with a few
touching verses on his brother John, the next day; and then he resumed
the correspondence with Emerson. It seems that one of his errands near
New York was to make the acquaintance of literary men and journalists
in the city, in order to find a vehicle for publication, such as his
neighbor Hawthorne had finally found in the pages of the _Democratic
Review_. For this purpose Thoreau made himself known to Henry James,
and other friends of Emerson, and to Horace Greeley, then in the first
freshness of his success with the _Tribune_,--a newspaper hardly more
than two years old then, but destined to a great career, in which
several of the early Transcendentalists took some part.


TO HIS FATHER AND MOTHER (AT CONCORD).

     CASTLETON, STATEN ISLAND, May 11, 1843.

DEAR MOTHER AND FRIENDS AT HOME,--We arrived here safely at ten
o'clock on Sunday morning, having had as good a passage as usual,
though we ran aground and were detained a couple of hours in the
Thames River, till the tide came to our relief. At length we curtseyed
up to a wharf just the other side of their Castle Garden,--very
incurious about them and their city. I believe my vacant looks,
absolutely inaccessible to questions, did at length satisfy an army of
starving cabmen that I did not want a hack, cab, or anything of that
sort as yet. It was the only demand the city made on us; as if a
wheeled vehicle of some sort were the sum and summit of a reasonable
man's wants. "Having tried the water," they seemed to say, "will you
not return to the pleasant securities of land carriage? Else why your
boat's prow turned toward the shore at last?" They are a sad-looking
set of fellows, not permitted to come on board, and I pitied them.
They had been expecting me, it would seem, and did really wish that I
should take a cab; though they did not seem rich enough to supply me
with one.

It was a confused jumble of heads and soiled coats, dangling from
flesh-colored faces,--all swaying to and fro, as by a sort of
undertow, while each whipstick, true as the needle to the pole, still
preserved that level and direction in which its proprietor had
dismissed his forlorn interrogatory. They took sight from them,--the
lash being wound up thereon, to prevent your attention from wandering,
or to make it concentre upon its object by the spiral line. They began
at first, perhaps, with the modest, but rather confident inquiry,
"Want a cab, sir?" but as their despair increased, it took the
affirmative tone, as the disheartened and irresolute are apt to do:
"You want a cab, sir," or even, "You want a nice cab, sir, to take you
to Fourth Street." The question which one had bravely and hopefully
begun to put, another had the tact to take up and conclude with fresh
emphasis,--twirling it from his particular whipstick as if it had
emanated from his lips,--as the sentiment did from his heart. Each one
could truly say, "Them 's my sentiments." But it was a sad sight.

I am seven and a half miles from New York, and, as it would take half
a day at least, have not been there yet. I have already run over no
small part of the island, to the highest hill, and some way along the
shore. From the hill directly behind the house I can see New York,
Brooklyn, Long Island, the Narrows, through which vessels bound to and
from all parts of the world chiefly pass,--Sandy Hook and the
Highlands of Neversink (part of the coast of New Jersey),--and, by
going still farther up the hill, the Kill van Kull, and Newark Bay.
From the pinnacle of one Madame Grimes's house, the other night at
sunset, I could see almost round the island. Far in the horizon there
was a fleet of sloops bound up the Hudson, which seemed to be going
over the edge of the earth; and in view of these trading ships
commerce seems quite imposing.

But it is rather derogatory that your dwelling-place should be only a
neighborhood to a great city,--to live on an inclined plane. I do not
like their cities and forts, with their morning and evening guns, and
sails flapping in one's eye. I want a whole continent to breathe in,
and a good deal of solitude and silence, such as all Wall Street
cannot buy,--nor Broadway with its wooden pavement. I must live along
the beach, on the southern shore, which looks directly out to
sea,--and see what that great parade of water means, that dashes and
roars, and has not yet wet me, as long as I have lived.

I must not know anything about my condition and relations here till
what is not permanent is worn off. I have not yet subsided. Give me
time enough, and I may like it. All my inner man heretofore has been a
Concord impression; and here come these Sandy Hook and Coney Island
breakers to meet and modify the former; but it will be long before I
can make nature look as innocently grand and inspiring as in Concord.

     Your affectionate son,
     HENRY D. THOREAU.


TO SOPHIA THOREAU (AT CONCORD).

     CASTLETON, STATEN ISLAND, May 22, 1843.

DEAR SOPHIA,--I have had a severe cold ever since I came here, and
have been confined to the house for the last week with bronchitis,
though I am now getting out, so I have not seen much in the botanical
way. The cedar seems to be one of the most common trees here, and the
fields are very fragrant with it. There are also the gum and tulip
trees. The latter is not very common, but is very large and beautiful,
having flowers as large as tulips, and as handsome. It is not time for
it yet.

The woods are now full of a large honeysuckle in full bloom, which
differs from ours in being red instead of white, so that at first I
did not know its genus. The painted-cup is very common in the meadows
here. Peaches, and especially cherries, seem to grow by all the
fences. Things are very forward here compared with Concord. The
apricots growing out-of-doors are already as large as plums. The
apple, pear, peach, cherry, and plum trees have shed their blossoms.
The whole island is like a garden, and affords very fine scenery.

In front of the house is a very extensive wood, beyond which is the
sea, whose roar I can hear all night long, when there is a wind; if
easterly winds have prevailed on the Atlantic. There are always some
vessels in sight,--ten, twenty, or thirty miles off,--and Sunday
before last there were hundreds in long procession, stretching from
New York to Sandy Hook, and far beyond, for Sunday is a lucky day.

I went to New York Saturday before last. A walk of half an hour, by
half a dozen houses, along the Richmond road--that is the road that
leads to Richmond, on which we live--brings me to the village of
Stapleton, in Southfield, where is the lower dock; but if I prefer I
can walk along the shore three quarters of a mile farther toward New
York to the quarantine village of Castleton, to the upper dock, which
the boat leaves five or six times every day, a quarter of an hour
later than the former place. Farther on is the village of New
Brighton, and farther still Port Richmond, which villages another
steamboat visits.

In New York I saw George Ward, and also Giles Waldo and William
Tappan, whom I can describe better when I have seen them more. They
are young friends of Mr. Emerson. Waldo came down to the island to see
me the next day. I also saw the Great Western, the Croton water-works,
and the picture-gallery of the National Academy of Design. But I have
not had time to see or do much yet.

Tell Miss Ward I shall try to put my microscope to a good use, and if
I find any new and preservable flower, will throw it into my
commonplace-book. Garlic, the original of the common onion, grows here
all over the fields, and during its season spoils the cream and butter
for the market, as the cows like it very much.

Tell Helen there are two schools of late established in the
neighborhood, with large prospects, or rather designs, one for boys
and another for girls. The latter by a Miss Errington, and though it
is only small as yet, I will keep my ears open for her in such
directions. The encouragement is very slight.

I hope you will not be washed away by the Irish sea.

Tell Mother I think my cold was not wholly owing to imprudence.
Perhaps I was being acclimated.

Tell Father that Mr. Tappan, whose son I know,--and whose clerks young
Tappan and Waldo are,--has invented and established a new and very
important business, which Waldo thinks would allow them to burn
ninety-nine out of one hundred of the stores in New York, which now
only offset and cancel one another. It is a kind of intelligence
office for the whole country, with branches in the principal cities,
giving information with regard to the credit and affairs of every man
of business of the country. Of course it is not popular at the South
and West. It is an extensive business and will employ a great many
clerks.

Love to all--not forgetting Aunt and Aunts--and Miss and Mrs. Ward.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the 23d of May he wrote from Castleton to his sister Helen thus:--

DEAR HELEN,--In place of something fresher, I send you the following
verses from my Journal, written some time ago:--

     Brother, where dost thou dwell?
       What sun shines for thee now?
     Dost thou indeed fare well
       As we wished here below?

     What season didst thou find?
       'T was winter here.
     Are not the Fates more kind
       Than they appear?

     Is thy brow clear again,
       As in thy youthful years?
     And was that ugly pain
       The summit of thy fears?[24]

     Yet thou wast cheery still;
       They could not quench thy fire;
     Thou didst abide their will,
       And then retire.

     Where chiefly shall I look
       To feel thy presence near?
     Along the neighboring brook
       May I thy voice still hear?

     Dost thou still haunt the brink
       Of yonder river's tide?
     And may I ever think
       That thou art by my side?

     What bird wilt thou employ
       To bring me word of thee?
     For it would give them joy,--
       'T would give them liberty,
     To serve their former lord
       With wing and minstrelsy.

     A sadder strain mixed with their song,
       They've slowlier built their nests;
     Since thou art gone
       Their lively labor rests.

     Where is the finch, the thrush
       I used to hear?
     Ah, they could well abide
       The dying year.

     Now they no more return,
       I hear them not;
     They have remained to mourn,
       Or else forgot.

As the first letter of Thoreau to Emerson was to thank him for his
lofty friendship, so now the first letter to Mrs. Emerson, after
leaving her house, was to say similar things, with a passing allusion
to her love of flowers and of gardening, in which she surpassed all
his acquaintance in Concord, then and afterward. A letter to Emerson
followed, touching on the _Dial_ and on several of his new and old
acquaintance. "Rockwood Hoar" is the person since known as judge and
cabinet officer,--the brother of Senator Hoar, and of Thoreau's
special friends Elizabeth and Edward Hoar. Channing is the poet, who
had lately printed his first volume, without finding many readers.


TO MRS. EMERSON (AT CONCORD).

     CASTLETON, STATEN ISLAND, May 22, 1843.

MY DEAR FRIEND,--I believe a good many conversations with you were
left in an unfinished state, and now indeed I don't know where to take
them up. But I will resume some of the unfinished silence. I shall not
hesitate to know you. I think of you as some elder sister of mine,
whom I could not have avoided,--a sort of lunar influence,--only of
such age as the moon, whose time is measured by her light. You must
know that you represent to me woman, for I have not traveled very far
or wide,--and what if I had? I like to deal with you, for I believe
you do not lie or steal, and these are very rare virtues. I thank you
for your influence for two years. I was fortunate to be subjected to
it, and am now to remember it. It is the noblest gift we can make;
what signify all others that can be bestowed? You have helped to keep
my life "on loft," as Chaucer says of Griselda, and in a better sense.
You always seemed to look down at me as from some elevation,--some of
your high humilities,--and I was the better for having to look up. I
felt taxed not to disappoint your expectation; for could there be any
accident so sad as to be respected for something better than we are?
It was a pleasure even to go away from you, as it is not to meet some,
as it apprised me of my high relations; and such a departure is a sort
of further introduction and meeting. Nothing makes the earth seem so
spacious as to have friends at a distance; they make the latitudes and
longitudes.

You must not think that fate is so dark there, for even here I can see
a faint reflected light over Concord, and I think that at this
distance I can better weigh the value of a doubt there. Your
moonlight, as I have told you, though it is a reflection of the sun,
allows of bats and owls and other twilight birds to flit therein. But
I am very glad that you can elevate your life with a doubt, for I am
sure that it is nothing but an insatiable faith after all that deepens
and darkens its current. And your doubt and my confidence are only a
difference of expression.

I have hardly begun to live on Staten Island yet; but, like the man
who, when forbidden to tread on English ground, carried Scottish
ground in his boots, I carry Concord ground in my boots and in my
hat,--and am I not made of Concord dust? I cannot realize that it is
the roar of the sea I hear now, and not the wind in Walden woods. I
find more of Concord, after all, in the prospect of the sea, beyond
Sandy Hook, than in the fields and woods.

If you were to have this Hugh the gardener for your man, you would
think a new dispensation had commenced. He might put a fairer aspect
on the natural world for you, or at any rate a screen between you and
the almshouse. There is a beautiful red honeysuckle now in blossom in
the woods here, which should be transplanted to Concord; and if what
they tell me about the tulip tree be true, you should have that also.
I have not seen Mrs. Black yet, but I intend to call on her soon. Have
you established those simpler modes of living yet?--"In the full tide
of successful operation?"

Tell Mrs. Brown that I hope she is anchored in a secure haven and
derives much pleasure still from reading the poets, and that her
constellation is not quite set from my sight, though it is sunk so low
in that northern horizon. Tell Elizabeth Hoar that her bright present
did "carry ink safely to Staten Island," and was a conspicuous object
in Master Haven's inventory of my effects. Give my respects to Madam
Emerson, whose Concord face I should be glad to see here this summer;
and remember me to the rest of the household who have had vision of
me. Shake a day-day to Edith, and say good-night to Ellen for me.
Farewell.


TO R. W. EMERSON (AT CONCORD).

     CASTLETON, STATEN ISLAND, May 23.

MY DEAR FRIEND,--I was just going to write to you when I received your
letter. I was waiting till I had got away from Concord. I should have
sent you something for the _Dial_ before, but I have been sick ever
since I came here, rather unaccountably,--what with a cold,
bronchitis, acclimation, etc., still unaccountably. I send you some
verses from my Journal which will help make a packet. I have not time
to correct them, if this goes by Rockwood Hoar. If I can finish an
account of a winter's walk in Concord, in the midst of a Staten Island
summer,--not so wise as true, I trust,--I will send it to you soon.

I have had no later experiences yet. You must not count much upon what
I can do or learn in New York. I feel a good way off here; and it is
not to be visited, but seen and dwelt in. I have been there but once,
and have been confined to the house since. Everything there
disappoints me but the crowd; rather, I was disappointed with the rest
before I came. I have no eyes for their churches, and what else they
find to brag of. Though I know but little about Boston, yet what
attracts me, in a quiet way, seems much meaner and more pretending
than there,--libraries, pictures, and faces in the street. You don't
know where any respectability inhabits. It is in the crowd in Chatham
Street. The crowd is something new, and to be attended to. It is worth
a thousand Trinity Churches and Exchanges while it is looking at them,
and will run over them and trample them under foot one day. There are
two things I hear and am aware I live in the neighborhood of,--the
roar of the sea and the hum of the city. I have just come from the
beach (to find your letter), and I like it much. Everything there is
on a grand and generous scale,--seaweed, water, and sand; and even the
dead fishes, horses, and hogs have a rank, luxuriant odor; great
shad-nets spread to dry; crabs and horseshoes crawling over the sand;
clumsy boats, only for service, dancing like sea-fowl over the surf,
and ships afar off going about their business.

Waldo and Tappan carried me to their English alehouse the first
Saturday, and Waldo spent two hours here the next day. But Tappan I
have only seen. I like his looks and the sound of his silence. They
are confined every day but Sunday, and then Tappan is obliged to
observe the demeanor of a church-goer to prevent open war with his
father.

I am glad that Channing has got settled, and that, too, before the
inroad of the Irish. I have read his poems two or three times over,
and partially through and under, with new and increased interest and
appreciation. Tell him I saw a man buy a copy at Little & Brown's. He
may have been a virtuoso, but we will give him the credit. What with
Alcott and Lane and Hawthorne, too, you look strong enough to take New
York by storm. Will you tell L., if he asks, that I have been able to
do nothing about the books yet?

Believe that I have something better to write you than this. It would
be unkind to thank you for particular deeds.


TO R. W. EMERSON (AT CONCORD).

     STATEN ISLAND, June 8, 1843.

DEAR FRIEND,--I have been to see Henry James, and like him very much.
It was a great pleasure to meet him. It makes humanity seem more erect
and respectable. I never was more kindly and faithfully catechised. It
made me respect myself more to be thought worthy of such wise
questions. He is a man, and takes his own way, or stands still in his
own place. I know of no one so patient and determined to have the good
of you. It is almost friendship, such plain and human dealing. I think
that he will not write or speak inspiringly; but he is a refreshing,
forward-looking and forward-moving man, and he has naturalized and
humanized New York for me. He actually reproaches you by his respect
for your poor words. I had three hours' solid talk with him, and he
asks me to make free use of his house. He wants an expression of your
faith, or to be sure that it is faith, and confesses that his own
treads fast upon the neck of his understanding. He exclaimed, at some
careless answer of mine: "Well, you Transcendentalists are wonderfully
consistent. I must get hold of this somehow!" He likes Carlyle's
book,[25] but says that it leaves him in an excited and unprofitable
state, and that Carlyle is so ready to obey his humor that he makes
the least vestige of truth the foundation of any superstructure, not
keeping faith with his better genius nor truest readers.

I met Wright on the stairs of the Society Library, and W. H. Channing
and Brisbane on the steps. The former (Channing) is a concave man, and
you see by his attitude and the lines of his face that he is
retreating from himself and from yourself, with sad doubts. It is like
a fair mask swaying from the drooping boughs of some tree whose stem
is not seen. He would break with a conchoidal fracture. You feel as if
you would like to see him when he has made up his mind to run all the
risks. To be sure, he doubts because he has a great hope to be
disappointed, but he makes the possible disappointment of too much
consequence. Brisbane, with whom I did not converse, did not impress
me favorably. He looks like a man who has lived in a cellar, far gone
in consumption. I barely saw him, but he did not look as if he could
let Fourier go, in any case, and throw up his hat. But I need not have
come to New York to write this.

I have seen Tappan for two or three hours, and like both him and
Waldo; but I always see those of whom I have heard well with a slight
disappointment. They are so much better than the great herd, and yet
the heavens are not shivered into diamonds over their heads. Persons
and things flit so rapidly through my brain nowadays that I can hardly
remember them. They seem to be lying in the stream, stemming the tide,
ready to go to sea, as steamboats when they leave the dock go off in
the opposite direction first, until they are headed right, and then
begins the steady revolution of the paddle-wheels; and _they_ are not
quite cheerily headed anywhither yet, nor singing amid the shrouds as
they bound over the billows. There is a certain youthfulness and
generosity about them, very attractive; and Tappan's more reserved and
solitary thought commands respect.

After some ado, I discovered the residence of Mrs. Black, but there
was palmed off on me, in her stead, a Mrs. Grey (quite an inferior
color), who told me at last that she was not Mrs. Black, but her
mother, and was just as glad to see me as Mrs. Black would have been,
and so, forsooth, would answer just as well. Mrs. Black had gone with
Edward Palmer to New Jersey, and would return on the morrow.

I don't like the city better, the more I see it, but worse. I am
ashamed of my eyes that behold it. It is a thousand times meaner than
I could have imagined. It will be something to hate,--that's the
advantage it will be to me; and even the best people in it are a part
of it, and talk coolly about it. The pigs in the street are the most
respectable part of the population. When will the world learn that a
million men are of no importance compared with _one_ man? But I must
wait for a shower of shillings, or at least a slight dew or mizzling
of sixpences, before I explore New York very far.

The sea-beach is the best thing I have seen. It is very solitary and
remote, and you only remember New York occasionally. The distances,
too, along the shore, and inland in sight of it, are unaccountably
great and startling. The sea seems very near from the hills, but it
proves a long way over the plain, and yet you may be wet with the
spray before you can believe that you are there. The far seems near,
and the near far. Many rods from the beach, I step aside for the
Atlantic, and I see men drag up their boats on to the sand, with oxen,
stepping about amid the surf, as if it were possible they might draw
up Sandy Hook.

I do not feel myself especially serviceable to the good people with
whom I live, except as inflictions are sanctified to the righteous.
And so, too, must I serve the boy. I can look to the Latin and
mathematics sharply, and for the rest behave myself. But I cannot be
in his neighborhood hereafter as his Educator, of course, but as the
hawks fly over my own head. I am not attracted toward him but as to
youth generally. He shall frequent me, however, as much as he can, and
I'll be I.

Bradbury[26] told me, when I passed through Boston, that he was
coming to New York the following Saturday, and would then settle with
me, but he has not made his appearance yet. Will you, the next time
you go to Boston, present that order for me which I left with you?

If I say less about Waldo and Tappan now, it is, perhaps, because I
may have more to say by and by. Remember me to your mother and Mrs.
Emerson, who, I hope, is quite well. I shall be very glad to hear from
her, as well as from you. I have very hastily written out something
for the _Dial_, and send it only because you are expecting
something,--though something better. It seems idle and Howittish, but
it may be of more worth in Concord, where it belongs. In great haste.
Farewell.


TO HIS FATHER AND MOTHER (AT CONCORD).

     CASTLETON, June 8, 1843.

DEAR PARENTS,--I have got quite well now, and like the lay of the land
and the look of the sea veryDEAR PARENTS much,--only the country is so
fair that it seems rather too much as if it were made to be looked at.
I have been to New York four or five times, and have run about the
island a good deal.

George Ward, when I last saw him, which was at his house in Brooklyn,
was studying the daguerreotype process, preparing to set up in that
line. The boats run now almost every hour from 8 A. M. to 7 P. M.,
back and forth, so that I can get to the city much more easily than
before. I have seen there one Henry James, a lame man, of whom I had
heard before, whom I like very much; and he asks me to make free use
of his house, which is situated in a pleasant part of the city,
adjoining the University. I have met several people whom I knew
before, and among the rest Mr. Wright, who was on his way to Niagara.

I feel already about as well acquainted with New York as with
Boston,--that is, about as little, perhaps. It is large enough now,
and they intend it shall be larger still. Fifteenth Street, where some
of my new acquaintance live, is two or three miles from the Battery,
where the boat touches,--clear brick and stone, and no "give" to the
foot; and they have laid out, though not built, up to the 149th street
above. I had rather see a brick for a specimen, for my part, such as
they exhibited in old times. You see it is "quite a day's training" to
make a few calls in different parts of the city (to say nothing of
twelve miles by water and land,--_i. e._, not brick and stone),
especially if it does not rain shillings, which might interest
omnibuses in your behalf. Some omnibuses are marked "Broadway--Fourth
Street," and they go no farther; others "Eighth Street," and so
on,--and so of the other principal streets. (This letter will be
circumstantial enough for Helen.)

This is in all respects a very pleasant residence,--much more rural
than you would expect of the vicinity of New York. There are woods all
around. We breakfast at half past six, lunch, if we will, at twelve,
and dine or sup at five; thus is the day partitioned off. From nine
to two, or thereabouts, I am the schoolmaster, and at other times as
much the pupil as I can be. Mr. and Mrs. Emerson are not indeed of my
kith or kin in any sense; but they are irreproachable and kind. I have
met no one yet _on the island_ whose acquaintance I shall
cultivate,--or hoe round,--unless it be our neighbor Captain Smith, an
old fisherman, who catches the fish called "moss-bonkers"--so it
sounds--and invites me to come to the beach, where he spends the week,
and see him and his fish.

Farms are for sale all around here, and so, I suppose men are for
purchase. North of us live Peter Wandell, Mr. Mell, and Mr. Disosway
(don't mind the spelling), as far as the Clove road; and south, John
Britton, Van Pelt, and Captain Smith, as far as the Fingerboard road.
Behind is the hill, some 250 feet high, on the side of which we live;
and in front the forest and the sea,--the latter at the distance of a
mile and a half.

Tell Helen that Miss Errington is provided with assistance. This were
a good place as any to establish a school, if one could wait a little.
Families come down here to board in the summer, and three or four have
been already established this season.

As for money matters, I have not set my traps yet, but I am getting my
bait ready. Pray, how does the garden thrive, and what improvements in
the pencil line? I miss you all very much. Write soon, and send a
Concord paper to

     Your affectionate son,
     HENRY D. THOREAU.

The traps of this sportsman were magazine articles,--but the magazines
that would pay much for papers were very few in 1843. One such had
existed in Boston for a short time,--the _Miscellany_,--and it printed
a good paper of Thoreau's, but the pay was not forthcoming. His
efforts to find publishers more liberal in New York were not
successful. But he continued to write for fame in the _Dial_, and
helped to edit that.


TO MRS. EMERSON.

     STATEN ISLAND, June 20, 1843.

MY VERY DEAR FRIEND,--I have only read a page of your letter, and have
come out to the top of the hill at sunset, where I can see the ocean,
to prepare to read the rest. It is fitter that it should hear it than
the walls of my chamber. The very crickets here seem to chirp around
me as they did not before. I feel as if it were a great daring to go
on and read the rest, and then to live accordingly. There are more
than thirty vessels in sight going to sea. I am almost afraid to look
at your letter. I see that it will make my life very steep, but it may
lead to fairer prospects than this.

You seem to me to speak out of a very clear and high heaven, where any
one may be who stands so high. Your voice seems not a voice, but comes
as much from the blue heavens as from the paper.

My dear friend, it was very noble in you to write me so trustful an
answer. It will do as well for another world as for this; such a voice
is for no particular time nor person, but it makes him who may hear it
stand for all that is lofty and true in humanity. The thought of you
will constantly elevate my life; it will be something always above the
horizon to behold, as when I look up at the evening star. I think I
know your thoughts without seeing you, and as well here as in Concord.
You are not at all strange to me.

I could hardly believe, after the lapse of one night, that I had such
a noble letter still at hand to read,--that it was not some fine
dream. I looked at midnight to be sure that it was real. I feel that I
am unworthy to know you, and yet they will not permit it wrongfully.

I, perhaps, am more willing to deceive by appearances than you say you
are; it would not be worth the while to tell how willing; but I have
the power perhaps too much to forget my meanness as soon as seen, and
not be incited by permanent sorrow. My actual life is unspeakably mean
compared with what I know and see that it might be. Yet the ground
from which I see and say this is some part of it. It ranges from
heaven to earth, and is all things in an hour. The experience of every
past moment but belies the faith of each present. We never conceive
the greatness of our fates. Are not these faint flashes of light which
sometimes obscure the sun their certain dawn?

My friend, I have read your letter as if I was not reading it. After
each pause I could defer the rest forever. The thought of you will be
a new motive for every right action. You are another human being whom
I know, and might not our topic be as broad as the universe? What have
we to do with petty rumbling news? We have our own great affairs.
Sometimes in Concord I found my actions dictated, as it were, by your
influence, and though it led almost to trivial Hindoo observances, yet
it was good and elevating. To hear that you have sad hours is not sad
to me. I rather rejoice at the richness of your experience. Only think
of some sadness away in Pekin,--unseen and unknown there. What a mine
it is! Would it not weigh down the Celestial Empire, with all its gay
Chinese? Our sadness is not sad, but our cheap joys. Let us be sad
about all we see and are, for so we demand and pray for better. It is
the constant prayer and whole Christian religion. I could hope that
you would get well soon, and have a healthy body for this world, but I
know this cannot be; and the Fates, after all, are the accomplishers
of our hopes. Yet I do hope that you may find it a worthy struggle,
and life seem grand still through the clouds.

What wealth is it to have such friends that we cannot think of them
without elevation! And we can think of them any time and anywhere, and
it costs nothing but the lofty disposition. I cannot tell you the joy
your letter gives me, which will not quite cease till the latest time.
Let me accompany your finest thought.

I send my love to my other friend and brother, whose nobleness I
slowly recognize.

     HENRY.


TO MRS. THOREAU (AT CONCORD).

     STATEN ISLAND, July 7, 1843.

DEAR MOTHER,--I was very glad to get your letter and papers. Tell
Father that circumstantial letters make very substantial reading, at
any rate. I like to know even how the sun shines and garden grows
with you. I did not get my money in Boston, and probably shall not at
all. Tell Sophia that I have pressed some blossoms of the tulip tree
for her. They look somewhat like white lilies. The magnolia, too, is
in blossom here.

Pray, have you the seventeen-year locust in Concord? The air here is
filled with their din. They come out of the ground at first in an
imperfect state, and, crawling up the shrubs and plants, the perfect
insect bursts out through the back. They are doing great damage to the
fruit and forest trees. The latter are covered with dead twigs, which
in the distance look like the blossoms of the chestnut. They bore
every twig of last year's growth in order to deposit their eggs in it.
In a few weeks the eggs will be hatched, and the worms fall to the
ground and enter it, and in 1860 make their appearance again. I
conversed about their coming this season before they arrived. They do
no injury to the leaves, but, beside boring the twigs, suck their sap
for sustenance. Their din is heard by those who sail along the shore
from the distant woods,--Phar-r-r-aoh. Phar-r-r-aoh. They are
departing now. Dogs, cats, and chickens subsist mainly upon them in
some places.

I have not been to New York for more than three weeks. I have had an
interesting letter from Mr. Lane,[27] describing their new prospects.
My pupil and I are getting on apace. He is remarkably well advanced in
Latin, and is well advancing.

Your letter has just arrived. I was not aware that it was so long
since I wrote home; I only knew that I had sent five or six letters to
the town. It is very refreshing to hear from you, though it is not all
good news. But I trust that Stearns Wheeler is not dead. I should be
slow to believe it. He was made to work very well in this world. There
need be no tragedy in his death.

The demon which is said to haunt the Jones family, hovering over their
eyelids with wings steeped in juice of poppies, has commenced another
campaign against me. I am "clear Jones" in this respect at least. But
he finds little encouragement in my atmosphere, I assure you, for I do
not once fairly lose myself, except in those hours of truce allotted
to rest by immemorial custom. However, this skirmishing interferes
sadly with my literary projects, and I am apt to think it a good day's
work if I maintain a soldier's eye till nightfall. Very well, it does
not matter much in what wars we serve, whether in the Highlands or the
Lowlands. Everywhere we get soldiers' pay still.

Give my love to Aunt Louisa, whose benignant face I sometimes see
right in the wall, as naturally and necessarily shining on my path as
some star of unaccountably greater age and higher orbit than myself.
Let it be inquired by her of George Minott, as from me,--for she sees
him,--if he has seen any pigeons yet, and tell him there are plenty of
jack snipes here. As for William P., the "worthy young man,"--as I
live, my eyes have not fallen on him yet.

I have not had the influenza, though here are its
headquarters,--unless my first week's cold was it. Tell Helen I shall
write to her soon. I have heard Lucretia Mott. This is badly written;
but the worse the writing the sooner you get it this time from

     Your affectionate son,
     H. D. T.


TO R. W. EMERSON (AT CONCORD).

     STATEN ISLAND, July 8, 1843.

DEAR FRIENDS,--I was very glad to hear your voices from so far. I do
not believe there are eight hundred human beings on the globe. It is
all a fable, and I cannot but think that you speak with a slight
outrage and disrespect of Concord when you talk of fifty of them.
There are not so many. Yet think not that I have left all behind, for
already I begin to track my way over the earth, and find the cope of
heaven extending beyond its horizon,--forsooth, like the roofs of
these Dutch houses. My thoughts revert to those dear hills and that
_river_ which so fills up the world to its brim,--worthy to be named
with Mincius and Alpheus,--still drinking its meadows while I am far
away. How can it run heedless to the sea, as if I were there to
countenance it? George Minott, too, looms up considerably,--and many
another old familiar face. These things all look sober and
respectable. They are better than the environs of New York, I assure
you.

I am pleased to think of Channing as an inhabitant of the gray town.
Seven cities contended for Homer dead. Tell him to remain at least
long enough to establish Concord's right and interest in him. I was
beginning to know the man. In imagination I see you pilgrims taking
your way by the red lodge and the cabin of the brave farmer man, so
youthful and hale, to the still cheerful woods. And Hawthorne, too, I
remember as one with whom I sauntered, in old heroic times, along the
banks of the Scamander, amid the ruins of chariots and heroes. Tell
him not to desert, even after the tenth year. Others may say, "Are
there not the cities of Asia?" But what are they? Staying at home is
the heavenly way.

And Elizabeth Hoar, my brave townswoman, to be sung of poets,--if I
may speak of her whom I do not know. Tell Mrs. Brown that I do not
forget her, going her way under the stars through this chilly
world,--I did _not_ think of the wind,--and that I went a little way
with her. Tell her not to despair. Concord's little arch does not span
all our fate, nor is what transpires under it law for the universe.

And least of all are forgotten those walks in the woods in ancient
days,--too sacred to be idly remembered,--when their aisles were
pervaded as by a fragrant atmosphere. They still seem youthful and
cheery to my imagination as Sherwood and Barnsdale,--and of far purer
fame. Those afternoons when we wandered o'er Olympus,--and those
hills, from which the sun was seen to set, while still our day held on
its way.

     "At last he rose and twitched his mantle blue;
     To-morrow to fresh woods, and pastures new."

I remember these things at midnight, at rare intervals. But know, my
friends, that I a good deal hate you all in my most private thoughts,
as the substratum of the little love I bear you. Though you are a
rare band, and do not make half use enough of one another.

I think this is a noble number of the _Dial_.[28] It perspires thought
and feeling. I can speak of it now a little like a foreigner. Be
assured that it is not written in vain,--it is not for me. I hear its
prose and its verse. They provoke and inspire me, and they have my
sympathy. I hear the sober and the earnest, the sad and the cheery
voices of my friends, and to me it is a long letter of encouragement
and reproof; and no doubt so it is to many another in the land. So
don't give up the ship. Methinks the verse is hardly enough better
than the prose. I give my vote for the "Notes from the Journal of a
Scholar," and wonder you don't print them faster. I want, too, to read
the rest of the "Poet and the Painter." Miss Fuller's is a noble
piece,--rich, extempore writing, talking with pen in hand. It is too
good not to be better, even. In writing, conversation should be folded
many times thick. It is the height of art that, on the first perusal,
plain common sense should appear; on the second, severe truth; and on
a third, beauty; and, having these warrants for its depth and reality,
we may then enjoy the beauty for evermore. The sea-piece is of the
best that is going, if not of the best that is staying. You have
spoken a good word for Carlyle. As for the "Winter's Walk," I should
be glad to have it printed in the _Dial_ if you think it good enough,
and will criticise it; otherwise send it to me, and I will dispose of
it.

I have not been to New York for a month, and so have not seen Waldo
and Tappan. James has been at Albany meanwhile. You will know that I
only describe my personal adventures with people; but I hope to see
more of them, and _judge_ them too. I am sorry to learn that Mrs.
Emerson is no better. But let her know that the Fates pay a compliment
to those whom they make sick, and they have not to ask, "What have I
done?"

Remember me to your mother, and remember me yourself as you are
remembered by

     H. D. T.

I had a friendly and cheery letter from Lane a month ago.


TO HELEN THOREAU (AT ROXBURY).

     STATEN ISLAND, July 21, 1843.

DEAR HELEN,--I am not in such haste to write home when I remember that
I make my readers pay the postage. But I believe I have not taxed you
before.

I have pretty much explored this island, inland and along the shore,
finding my health inclined me to the peripatetic philosophy. I have
visited telegraph stations, Sailors' Snug Harbors, Seaman's Retreats,
Old Elm Trees, where the Huguenots landed, Britton's Mills, and all
the villages on the island. Last Sunday I walked over to Lake Island
Farm, eight or nine miles from here, where Moses Prichard lived, and
found the present occupant, one Mr. Davenport, formerly from
Massachusetts, with three or four men to help him, raising sweet
potatoes and tomatoes by the acre. It seemed a cool and pleasant
retreat, but a hungry soil. As I was coming away, I took my toll out
of the soil in the shape of arrowheads, which may after all be the
surest crop, certainly not affected by drought.

I am well enough situated here to observe one aspect of the modern
world at least. I mean the migratory,--the western movement. Sixteen
hundred immigrants arrived at quarantine ground on the 4th of July,
and more or less every day since I have been here. I see them
occasionally washing their persons and clothes: or men, women, and
children gathered on an isolated quay near the shore, stretching their
limbs and taking the air; the children running races and swinging on
this artificial piece of the land of liberty, while their vessels are
undergoing purification. They are detained but a day or two, and then
go up to the city, for the most part without having _landed_ here.

In the city, I have seen, since I wrote last, W. H. Channing, at whose
home, in Fifteenth Street, I spent a few pleasant hours, discussing
the all-absorbing question "what to do for the race." (He is sadly in
earnest about going up the river to rusticate for six weeks, and
issues a new periodical called _The Present_ in September.) Also
Horace Greeley, editor of the _Tribune_, who is cheerfully in earnest,
at his office of all work, a hearty New Hampshire boy as one would
wish to meet, and says, "Now be neighborly," and believes only, or
mainly, first, in the Sylvania Association, somewhere in Pennsylvania;
and, secondly, and most of all, in a new association to go into
operation soon in New Jersey, with which he is connected. Edward
Palmer came down to see me Sunday before last. As for Waldo and
Tappan, we have strangely dodged one another, and have not met for
some weeks.

I believe I have not told you anything about Lucretia Mott. It was a
good while ago that I heard her at the Quaker Church in Hester Street.
She is a preacher, and it was advertised that she would be present on
that day. I liked all the proceedings very well, their plainly greater
harmony and sincerity than elsewhere. They do nothing in a hurry.
Every one that walks up the aisle in his square coat and expansive hat
has a history, and comes from a house to a house. The women come in
one after another in their Quaker bonnets and handkerchiefs, looking
all like sisters or so many chickadees. At length, after a long
silence,--waiting for the Spirit,--Mrs. Mott rose, took off her
bonnet, and began to utter very deliberately what the Spirit
suggested. Her self-possession was something to see, if all else
failed; but it did not. Her subject was, "The Abuse of the Bible," and
thence she straightway digressed to slavery and the degradation of
woman. It was a good speech,--Transcendentalism in its mildest form.
She sat down at length, and, after a long and decorous silence, in
which some seemed to be really digesting her words, the elders shook
hands, and the meeting dispersed. On the whole, I liked their ways and
the plainness of their meeting-house. It looked as if it was indeed
made for service.

I think that Stearns Wheeler has left a gap in the community not easy
to be filled. Though he did not exhibit the highest qualities of the
scholar, he promised, in a remarkable degree, many of the essential
and rarer ones; and his patient industry and energy, his reverent love
of letters, and his proverbial accuracy, will cause him to be
associated in my memory even with many venerable names of former days.
It was not wholly unfit that so pure a lover of books should have
ended his pilgrimage at the great book-mart of the world. I think of
him as healthy and brave, and am confident that if he had lived he
would have proved useful in more ways than I can describe. He would
have been authority on all matters of fact, and a sort of connecting
link between men and scholars of different walks and tastes. The
literary enterprises he was planning for himself and friends remind me
of an older and more studious time. So much, then, remains for us to
do who survive. Love to all. Tell all my friends in Concord that I do
not send my love, but retain it still.

Your affectionate brother.


TO MRS. THOREAU (AT CONCORD).

     STATEN ISLAND, August 6, 1843.

DEAR MOTHER,--As Mr. William Emerson is going to Concord on Tuesday, I
must not omit sending a line by him,--though I wish I had something
more weighty for so direct a post. I believe I directed my last letter
to you by mistake; but it must have appeared that it was addressed to
Helen. At any rate, this is to you without mistake.

I am chiefly indebted to your letters for what I have learned of
Concord and family news, and am very glad when I get one. I should
have liked to be in Walden woods with you, but not with the railroad.
I think of you all very often, and wonder if you are still separated
from me only by so many miles of earth, or so many miles of memory.
This life we live is a strange dream, and I don't believe at all any
account men give of it. Methinks I should be content to sit at the
back door in Concord, under the poplar tree, henceforth forever. Not
that I am homesick at all,--for places are strangely indifferent to
me,--but Concord is still a cynosure to my eyes, and I find it hard to
attach it, even in imagination, to the rest of the globe, and tell
where the seam is.

I fancy that this Sunday evening you are pouring over some select
book, almost transcendental perchance, or else "Burgh's Dignity," or
Massillon, or the _Christian Examiner_. Father has just taken one more
look at the garden, and is now absorbed in Chaptelle, or reading the
newspaper quite abstractedly, only looking up occasionally over his
spectacles to see how the rest are engaged, and not to miss any newer
news that may not be in the paper. Helen has slipped in for the fourth
time to learn the very latest item. Sophia, I suppose, is at Bangor;
but Aunt Louisa, without doubt, is just flitting away to some good
meeting, to save the credit of you all.

It is still a cardinal virtue with me to keep awake. I find it
impossible to write or read except at rare intervals, but am,
generally speaking, tougher than formerly. I could make a pedestrian
tour round the world, and sometimes think it would perhaps be better
to do at once the things I _can_, rather than be trying to do what at
present I cannot do well. However, I shall awake sooner or later.

I have been translating some Greek, and reading English poetry, and a
month ago sent a paper to the _Democratic Review_, which, at length,
they were sorry they could not accept; but they could not adopt the
sentiments. However, they were very polite, and earnest that I should
send them something else, or reform that.

I go moping about the fields and woods here as I did in Concord, and,
it seems, am thought to be a surveyor,--an Eastern man inquiring
narrowly into the condition and value of land, etc., here, preparatory
to an extensive speculation. One neighbor observed to me, in a
mysterious and half-inquisitive way, that he supposed I must be pretty
well acquainted with the state of things; that I kept pretty close; he
did n't see any surveying instruments, but perhaps I had them in my
pocket.

I have received Helen's note, but have not heard of Frisbie Hoar
yet.[29] She is a faint-hearted writer, who could not take the
responsibility of blotting one sheet alone. However, I like very well
the blottings I get. Tell her I have not seen Mrs. Child nor Mrs.
Sedgwick.

Love to all from your affectionate son.


TO R. W. EMERSON (AT CONCORD).

     STATEN ISLAND, August 7, 1843.

MY DEAR FRIEND,--I fear I have nothing to send you worthy of so good
an opportunity. Of New York I still know but little, though out of so
many thousands there are no doubt many units whom it would be worth my
while to know. Mr. James[30] talks of going to Germany soon with his
wife to learn the language. He says he must know it; can never learn
it here; there he may absorb it; and is very anxious to learn
beforehand where he had best locate himself to enjoy the advantage of
the highest culture, learn the language in its purity, and not exceed
his limited means. I referred him to Longfellow. Perhaps you can help
him.

I have had a pleasant talk with Channing; and Greeley, too, it was
refreshing to meet. They were both much pleased with your criticism on
Carlyle, but thought that you had overlooked what chiefly concerned
them in the book,--its practical aim and merits.

I have also spent some pleasant hours with Waldo and Tappan at their
counting-room, or rather intelligence office.

I must still reckon myself with the innumerable army of
invalids,--undoubtedly in a fair field they would rout the
well,--though I am tougher than formerly. Methinks I could paint the
sleepy god more truly than the poets have done, from more intimate
experience. Indeed, I have not kept my eyes very steadily open to the
things of this world of late, and hence have little to report
concerning them. However, I trust the awakening will come before the
last trump,--and then perhaps I may remember some of my dreams.

I study the aspects of commerce at its Narrows here, where it passes
in review before me, and this seems to be beginning at the right end
to understand this Babylon. I have made a very rude translation of the
Seven against Thebes, and Pindar too I have looked at, and wish he was
better worth translating. I believe even the best things are not equal
to their fame. Perhaps it would be better to translate fame
itself,--or is not that what the poets themselves do? However, I have
not done with Pindar yet. I sent a long article on Etzler's book to
the _Democratic Review_ six weeks ago, which at length they have
determined not to accept, as they could not subscribe to all the
opinions, but asked for other matter,--purely literary, I suppose.
O'Sullivan wrote me that articles of this kind have to be referred to
the circle who, it seems, are represented by this journal, and said
something about "collective we" and "homogeneity."

Pray don't think of Bradbury & Soden[31] any more,--

     "For good deed done through praiere
     Is sold and bought too dear, I wis,
     To herte that of great valor is."

I see that they have given up their shop here.

Say to Mrs. Emerson that I am glad to remember how she too dwells
there in Concord, and shall send her anon some of the thoughts that
belong to her. As for Edith, I seem to see a star in the east over
where the young child is. Remember me to Mrs. Brown.

       *       *       *       *       *

These letters for the most part explain themselves, with the aid of
several to Thoreau's family, which the purpose of Emerson, in 1865, to
present his friend in a stoical character, had excluded from the
collection then printed. Mention of C. S. Wheeler and his sad death in
Germany had come to him from Emerson, as well as from his own family
at Concord,--of whose occupations Thoreau gives so genial a picture in
the letter of August 6 to his mother. Emerson wrote: "You will have
read and heard the sad news to the little village of Lincoln, of
Stearns Wheeler's death. Such an overthrow to the hopes of his parents
made me think more of them than of the loss the community will suffer
in his kindness, diligence, and ingenuous mind." He died at Leipsic,
in the midst of Greek studies which have since been taken up and
carried farther by a child of Concord, Professor Goodwin of the same
university. Henry James, several times mentioned in the
correspondence, was the moral and theological essayist (father of the
novelist Henry James, and the distinguished Professor James of
Harvard), who was so striking a personality in Concord and Cambridge
circles for many years. W. H. Channing was a Christian Socialist fifty
years ago,--cousin of Ellery Channing, and nephew and biographer of
Dr. Channing. Both he and Horace Greeley were then deeply interested
in the Fourierist scheme of association, one development of which was
going on at Brook Farm, under direction of George Ripley, and another,
differing in design, at Fruitlands, under Bronson Alcott and Charles
Lane. The jocose allusions of Thoreau to his Jones ancestors (the
descendants of the Tory Colonel Jones of Weston) had this foundation
in fact,--that his uncle, Charles Dunbar, soon to be named in
connection with Daniel Webster, suffered from a sort of lethargy,
which would put him to sleep in the midst of conversation. Webster had
been retained in the once famous "Wyman case," of a bank officer
charged with fraud, and had exerted his great forensic talent for a
few days in the Concord court-house. Emerson wrote Thoreau: "You will
have heard of the Wyman trial, and the stir it made in the village.
But the Cliff and Walden knew nothing of that."


TO MRS. THOREAU (AT CONCORD).

     CASTLETON, Tuesday, August 29, 1843.

DEAR MOTHER,--Mr. Emerson has just given me warning that he is about
to send to Concord, which I will endeavor to improve. I am a great
deal more wakeful than I was, and growing stout in other
respects,--so that I may yet accomplish something in the literary
way; indeed, I should have done so before now but for the slowness and
poverty of the "Reviews" themselves. I have tried sundry methods of
earning money in the city, of late, but without success: have rambled
into every bookseller's or publisher's house, and discussed their
affairs with them. Some propose to me to do what an honest man cannot.
Among others, I conversed with the Harpers--to see if they might not
find me useful to them; but they say that they are making $50,000
annually, and their motto is to let well alone. I find that I talk
with these poor men as if I were over head and ears in business, and a
few thousands were no consideration with me. I almost reproach myself
for bothering them so to no purpose; but it is a very valuable
experience, and the best introduction I could have.

We have had a tremendous rain here last Monday night and Tuesday
morning. I was in the city at Giles Waldo's, and the streets at
daybreak were absolutely impassable for the water. Yet the accounts of
the storm that you may have seen are exaggerated, as indeed are all
such things, to my imagination. On Sunday I heard Mr. Bellows preach
here on the island; but the fine prospect over the Bay and Narrows,
from where I sat, preached louder than he,--though he did far better
than the average, if I remember aright. I should have liked to see
Daniel Webster walking about Concord; I suppose the town shook, every
step he took. But I trust there were some sturdy Concordians who were
not tumbled down by the jar, but represented still the upright town.
Where was George Minott? he would not have gone far to see him. Uncle
Charles should have been there,--he might as well have been catching
cat naps in Concord as anywhere.

And then, what a whetter-up of his memory this event would have been!
You'd have had all the classmates again in alphabetical order
reversed,--"and Seth Hunt and Bob Smith--and he was a student of my
father's,--and where's Put now? and I wonder--you--if Henry's been to
see George Jones yet! A little account with Stow,--Balcom,--Bigelow,
poor miserable t-o-a-d,--(sound asleep.) I vow, you,--what noise was
that?--saving grace--and few there be--That's clear as preaching,--Easter
Brooks,--morally deprived,--How charming is divine philosophy,--some
wise and some otherwise,--Heighho! (sound asleep again) Webster's a
smart fellow--bears his age well,--how old should you think he was?
you--does he look as if he were ten years younger than I?"

I met, or rather, was overtaken by Fuller, who tended for Mr. How, the
other day, in Broadway. He dislikes New York very much. The Mercantile
Library,--that is, its Librarian, presented me with a stranger's
ticket, for a month, and I was glad to read the Reviews there, and
Carlyle's last article. I have bought some pantaloons; stockings show
no holes yet. These pantaloons cost $2.25 ready made.

In haste.


TO R. W. EMERSON (AT CONCORD).

     STATEN ISLAND, September 14, 1843.

DEAR FRIEND,--Miss Fuller will tell you the news from these parts, so
I will only devote these few moments to what she does n't know as
well. I was absent only one day and night from the island, the family
expecting me back immediately. I was to earn a certain sum before
winter, and thought it worth the while to try various experiments. I
carried _The Agriculturist_ about the city, and up as far as
Manhattanville, and called at the Croton Reservoir, where, indeed,
they did not want any Agriculturists, but paid well enough in their
way.

Literature comes to a poor market here; and even the little that I
write is more than will sell. I have tried _The Dem. Review_, _The New
Mirror_, and _Brother Jonathan_.[32] The last two, as well as the _New
World_, are overwhelmed with contributions which cost nothing, and are
worth no more. _The Knickerbocker_ is too poor, and only _The Ladies'
Companion_ pays. O'Sullivan is printing the manuscript I sent him some
time ago, having objected only to my want of sympathy with the
Committee.

I doubt if you have made more corrections in my manuscript than I
should have done ere this, though they may be better; but I am glad
you have taken any pains with it. I have not prepared any translations
for the _Dial_, supposing there would be no room, though it is the
only place for them.

I have been seeing men during these days, and trying experiments upon
trees; have inserted three or four hundred buds (quite a Buddhist, one
might say). Books I have access to through your brother and Mr.
McKean, and have read a good deal. Quarles's "Divine Poems" as well as
"Emblems" are quite a discovery.

I am very sorry Mrs. Emerson is so sick. Remember me to her and to
your mother. I like to think of your living on the banks of the Mill
Brook, in the midst of the garden with all its weeds; for what are
botanical distinctions at this distance?


TO HIS MOTHER (AT CONCORD).

     STATEN ISLAND, October 1, 1843.

DEAR MOTHER,--I hold together remarkably well as yet,--speaking of my
outward linen and woolen man; no holes more than I brought away, and
no stitches needed yet. It is marvelous. I think the Fates must be on
my side, for there is less than a plank between me and--Time, to say
the least. As for Eldorado, that is far off yet. My bait will not
tempt the rats,--they are too well fed. The _Democratic Review_ is
poor, and can only afford half or quarter pay, which it _will_ do; and
they say there is a _Ladies' Companion_ that pays,--but I could not
write anything companionable. However, speculate as we will, it is
quite gratuitous; for life, nevertheless and never the more, goes
steadily on, well or ill-fed, and clothed somehow, and "honor bright"
withal. It is very gratifying to live in the prospect of great
successes always; and for that purpose we must leave a sufficient
foreground to see them through. All the painters prefer distant
prospects for the greater breadth of view and delicacy of tint. But
this is no news, and describes no new conditions.

Meanwhile I am somnambulic at least,--stirring in my sleep; indeed,
quite awake. I read a good deal, and am pretty well known in the
libraries of New York. Am in with the librarian (one Dr. Forbes) of
the Society Library, who has lately been to Cambridge to learn
liberality, and has come back to let me take out some un-take-out-able
books, which I was threatening to read on the spot. And Mr. McKean, of
the Mercantile Library, is a true gentleman (a former tutor of mine),
and offers me every privilege there. I have from him a perpetual
stranger's ticket, and a citizen's rights besides,--all which
privileges I pay handsomely for by improving.

A canoe race "came off" on the Hudson the other day, between
Chippeways and New Yorkers, which must have been as moving a sight as
the buffalo hunt which I witnessed. But canoes and buffaloes are all
lost, as is everything here, in the mob. It is only the people have
come to see one another. Let them advertise that there will be a
gathering at Hoboken,--having bargained with the ferryboats,--and
there will be, and they need not throw in the buffaloes.

I have crossed the bay twenty or thirty times, and have seen a great
many immigrants going up to the city for the first time: Norwegians,
who carry their old-fashioned farming-tools to the West with them, and
will buy nothing here for fear of being cheated; English operatives,
known by their pale faces and stained hands, who will recover their
birthright in a little cheap sun and wind; English travelers on their
way to the Astor House, to whom I have done the honors of the city;
whole families of emigrants cooking their dinner upon the
pavement,--all sunburnt, so that you are in doubt where the
foreigner's face of flesh begins; their tidy clothes laid on, and then
tied to their swathed bodies, which move about like a bandaged
finger,--caps set on the head as if woven of the hair, which is still
growing at the roots,--each and all busily cooking, stooping from time
to time over the pot, and having something to drop in it, that so they
may be entitled to take something out, forsooth. They look like
respectable but straitened people, who may turn out to be Counts when
they get to Wisconsin, and will have this experience to relate to
their children.

Seeing so many people from day to day, one comes to have less respect
for flesh and bones, and thinks they must be more loosely joined, of
less firm fibre, than the few he had known. It must have a very bad
influence on children to see so many human beings at once,--mere herds
of men.

I came across Henry Bigelow a week ago, sitting in front of a hotel in
Broadway, very much as if he were under his father's stoop. He is
seeking to be admitted into the bar in New York, but as yet had not
succeeded. I directed him to Fuller's store, which he had not found,
and invited him to come and see me if he came to the island. Tell Mrs.
and Miss Ward that I have not forgotten them, and was glad to hear
from George--with whom I spent last night--that they had returned to
C. Tell Mrs. Brown that it gives me as much pleasure to know that she
thinks of me and my writing as if I had been the author of the piece
in question,--but I did not even read over the papers I sent. The
_Mirror_ is really the most readable journal here. I see that they
have printed a short piece that I wrote to sell, in the _Dem. Review_,
and still keep the review of "Paradise," that I may include in it a
notice of another book by the same author, which they have found, and
are going to send me.

I don't know when I shall come home; I like to keep that feast in
store. Tell Helen that I do not see any advertisement for her, and I
am looking for myself. If I could find a rare opening, I might be
tempted to try with her for a year, till I had paid my debts, but for
such I am sure it is not well to go out of New England. Teachers are
but poorly recompensed, even here. Tell her and Sophia (if she is not
gone) to write to me. Father will know that this letter is to him as
well as to you. I send him a paper which usually contains the
news,--if not all that is stirring, all that has stirred,--and even
draws a little on the future. I wish he would send me, by and by, the
paper which contains the results of the Cattle-Show. You must get
Helen's eyes to read this, though she is a scoffer at honest
penmanship.


TO MRS. EMERSON (AT CONCORD).

     STATEN ISLAND, October 16, 1843.

MY DEAR FRIEND,--I promised you some thoughts long ago, but it would
be hard to tell whether these are the ones. I suppose that the great
questions of "Fate, Freewill, Foreknowledge absolute," which used to
be discussed at Concord, are still unsettled. And here comes [W. H.]
Channing, with his _Present_ to vex the world again,--a rather
galvanic movement, I think. However, I like the man all the better,
though his schemes the less. I am sorry for his confessions. Faith
never makes a confession.

Have you had the annual berrying party, or sat on the Cliffs a whole
day this summer? I suppose the flowers have fared quite as well since
I was not there to scoff at them; and the hens, without doubt, keep up
their reputation.

I have been reading lately what of Quarles's poetry I could get. He
was a contemporary of Herbert, and a kindred spirit. I think you would
like him. It is rare to find one who was so much of a poet and so
little of an artist. He wrote long poems, almost epics for length,
about Jonah, Esther, Job, Samson, and Solomon, interspersed with
meditations after a quite original plan,--Shepherd's Oracles,
Comedies, Romances, Fancies, and Meditations,--the quintessence of
meditation,--and Enchiridions of Meditation all divine,--and what he
calls his Morning Muse; besides prose works as curious as the rest. He
was an unwearied Christian, and a reformer of some old school withal.
Hopelessly quaint, as if he lived all alone and knew nobody but his
wife, who appears to have reverenced him. He never doubts his genius;
it is only he and his God in all the world. He uses language sometimes
as greatly as Shakespeare; and though there is not much straight grain
in him, there is plenty of tough, crooked timber. In an age when
Herbert is revived, Quarles surely ought not to be forgotten.

I will copy a few such sentences as I should read to you if there.
Mrs. Brown, too, may find some nutriment in them.

How does the Saxon Edith do? Can you tell yet to which school of
philosophy she belongs,--whether she will be a fair saint of some
Christian order, or a follower of Plato and the heathen? Bid Ellen a
good-night or good-morning from me, and see if she will remember where
it comes from; and remember me to Mrs. Brown, and your mother, and
Elizabeth Hoar.


TO R. W. EMERSON (AT CONCORD).

     STATEN ISLAND, October 17, 1843.

MY DEAR FRIEND,--I went with my pupil to the Fair of the American
Institute, and so lost a visit from Tappan, whom I met returning from
the Island. I should have liked to hear more news from his lips,
though he had left me a letter and the _Dial_, which is a sort of
circular letter itself. I find Channing's[33] letters full of life,
and I enjoy their wit highly. Lane writes straight and solid, like a
guide-board, but I find that I put off the "social tendencies" to a
future day, which may never come. He is always Shaker fare, quite as
luxurious as his principles will allow. I feel as if I were ready to
be appointed a committee on poetry, I have got my eyes so whetted and
proved of late, like the knife-sharpener I saw at the Fair, certified
to have been "in constant use in a gentleman's family for more than
two years." Yes, I ride along the ranks of the English poets, casting
terrible glances, and some I blot out, and some I spare. McKean has
imported, within the year, several new editions and collections of old
poetry, of which I have the reading, but there is a good deal of chaff
to a little meal,--hardly worth bolting. I have just opened Bacon's
"Advancement of Learning" for the first time, which I read with great
delight. It is more like what Scott's novels _were_ than anything.

I see that I was very blind to send you my manuscript in such a state;
but I have a good _second_ sight, at least. I could still shake it in
the wind to some advantage, if it would hold together. There are some
sad mistakes in the printing. It is a little unfortunate that the
"Ethnical Scriptures" should hold out so well, though it does really
hold out. The Bible ought not to be very large. Is it not singular
that, while the religious world is gradually picking to pieces its old
testaments, here are some coming slowly after, on the seashore,
picking up the durable relics of perhaps older books, and putting them
together again?

Your Letter to Contributors is excellent, and hits the nail on the
head. It will taste sour to their palates at first, no doubt, but it
will bear a sweet fruit at last. I like the poetry, especially the
Autumn verses. They ring true. Though I am quite weather-beaten with
poetry, having weathered so many epics of late. The "Sweep Ho!" sounds
well this way. But I have a good deal of fault to find with your "Ode
to Beauty." The tune is altogether unworthy of the thoughts. You slope
too quickly to the rhyme, as if that trick had better be performed as
soon as possible, or as if you stood over the line with a hatchet, and
chopped off the verses as they came out, some short and some long. But
give us a long reel, and we'll cut it up to suit ourselves. It sounds
like parody. "Thee knew I of old," "Remediless thirst," are some of
those stereotyped lines. I am frequently reminded, I believe, of Jane
Taylor's "Philosopher's Scales," and how the world

     "Flew out with a bounce,"

which

     "Yerked the philosopher out of his cell;"

or else of

     "From the climes of the sun all war-worn and weary."

I had rather have the thought come ushered with a flourish of oaths
and curses. Yet I love your poetry as I do little else that is near
and recent, especially when you get fairly round the end of the line,
and are not thrown back upon the rocks. To read the lecture on "The
Comic" is as good as to be in our town meeting or Lyceum once more.

I am glad that the Concord farmers plowed well this year; it promises
that something will be done these summers. But I am suspicious of that
_Brittonner_, who advertises so many cords of _good_ oak, chestnut,
and maple wood for sale. _Good!_ ay, good for what? And there shall
not be left a stone upon a stone. But no matter,--let them hack away.
The sturdy Irish arms that do the work are of more worth than oak or
maple. Methinks I could look with equanimity upon a long street of
Irish cabins, and pigs and children reveling in the genial Concord
dirt; and I should still find my Walden Wood and Fair Haven in their
tanned and happy faces.

I write this in the corn-field--it being washing-day--with the
inkstand Elizabeth Hoar gave me;[34] though it is not redolent of
corn-stalks, I fear. Let me not be forgotten by Channing and
Hawthorne, nor our gray-suited neighbor under the hill [Edmund
Hosmer].

       *       *       *       *       *

This letter will be best explained by a reference to the _Dial_ for
October, 1843. The "Ethnical Scriptures" were selections from the
Brahminical books, from Confucius, etc., such as we have since seen in
great abundance. The Autumn verses are by Channing; "Sweep Ho!" by
Ellen Sturgis, afterwards Mrs. Hooper; the "Youth of the Poet and
Painter" also by Channing. The Letter to Contributors, which is headed
simply "A Letter," is by Emerson, and has been much overlooked by his
later readers; his "Ode to Beauty" is very well known, and does not
deserve the slashing censure of Thoreau, though, as it now stands, it
is better than first printed. Instead of

     "Love drinks at thy banquet
     _Remediless_ thirst,"

we now have the perfect phrase,

     "Love drinks at thy _fountain_
     _False waters of thirst_."

"The Comic" is also Emerson's. There is a poem, "The Sail," by William
Tappan, so often named in these letters, and a sonnet by Charles A.
Dana, afterwards of the _New York Sun_.


TO HELEN THOREAU (AT CONCORD).

     STATEN ISLAND, October 18, 1843.

Dear Helen,--What do you mean by saying that "_we_ have written eight
times by private opportunity"? Is n't it the more the better? And am I
not glad of it? But people have a habit of not letting me know it
when they go to Concord from New York. I endeavored to get you _The
Present_ when I was last in the city, but they were all sold; and now
another is out, which I will send, if I get it. I did not send the
_Democratic Review_, because I had no copy, and my piece was not worth
fifty cents. You think that Channing's words would apply to me too, as
living more in the natural than the moral world; but I think that you
mean the world of men and women rather, and reformers generally. My
objection to Channing and all that fraternity is that they need and
deserve sympathy themselves rather than are able to render it to
others. They want faith, and mistake their private ail for an infected
atmosphere; but let any one of them recover hope for a moment, and
right his _particular_ grievance, and he will no longer train in that
company. To speak or do anything that shall concern mankind, one must
speak and act as if well, or from that grain of health which he has
left. This _Present_ book indeed is blue, but the hue of its thoughts
is yellow. I say these things with the less hesitation, because I have
the jaundice myself; but I also know what it is to be well. But do not
think that one can escape from mankind who is one of them, and is so
constantly dealing with them.

I could not undertake to form a nucleus of an institution for the
development of infant minds, where none already existed. It would be
too cruel. And then, as if looking all this while one way with
benevolence, to walk off another about one's own affairs suddenly!
Something of this kind is an unavoidable objection to that.

I am very sorry to hear such bad news about Aunt Maria; but I think
that the worst is always the least to be apprehended, for nature is
averse to it as well as we. I trust to hear that she is quite well
soon. I send love to her and Aunt Jane. For three months I have not
known whether to think of Sophia as in Bangor or Concord, and now you
say that she is going directly. Tell her to write to me, and establish
her whereabouts, and also to get well directly. And see that she has
something worthy to do when she gets down there, for that's the best
remedy for disease.

     Your affectionate brother,
     H. D. THOREAU.


FOOTNOTES:

[2] He was named David for this uncle; Dr. Ripley was the minister of
the whole town in 1817. The Red House stood near the Emerson house on
the Lexington road; the Woodwards were a wealthy family, afterwards in
Quincy, to which town Dr. Woodward left a large bequest.

[3] John Thoreau, grandfather of Henry, born at St. Helier's, Jersey,
April, 1754, was a sailor on board the American privateer General
Lincoln, November, 1779, and recognized La Sensible, French frigate,
which carried John Adams from Boston to France. See _Journal_, vol. v,
June 11, 1853. This John Thoreau, son of Philip, died in Concord,
1800.

[4] This had been the abode of old Deacon Parkman, a granduncle of the
late Francis Parkman, the historian, and son of the Westborough
clergyman from whom this distinguished family descends. Deacon Parkman
was a merchant in Concord, and lived in what was then a good house. It
stood in the middle of the village, where the Public Library now is.
The "Texas" house was built by Henry Thoreau and his father John; it
was named from a section of the village then called "Texas," because a
little remote from the churches and schools; perhaps the same odd
fancy that had bestowed the name of "Virginia" on the road of
Thoreau's birthplace. The "Yellow House reformed" was a small cottage
rebuilt and enlarged by the Thoreaus in 1850; in this, on the main
street, Henry and his father and mother died.

[5] During the greater part of his college course he signed himself D.
H. Thoreau, as he was christened (David Henry); but being constantly
called "Henry," he put this name first about the time he left college,
and was seldom afterwards known by the former initials.

[6] The impression made on one classmate and former room-mate ("chum")
of Thoreau, by this utterance, will be seen by this fragment of a
letter from James Richardson of Dedham (afterwards Reverend J.
Richardson), dated Dedham, September 7, 1837:--

      "FRIEND THOREAU,--After you had finished your part in the
      Performances of Commencement (the tone and sentiment of
      which, by the way, I liked much, as being of a sound
      philosophy), I hardly saw you again at all. Neither at
      Mr. Quincy's levee, neither at any of our classmates'
      evening entertainments, did I find you; though for the
      purpose of taking a farewell, and leaving you some
      memento of an old chum, as well as on matters of
      business, I much wished to see your face once more. Of
      course you must be present at our October
      meeting,--notice of the time and place for which will be
      given in the newspapers. I hear that you are comfortably
      located, in your native town, as the guardian of its
      children, in the immediate vicinity, I suppose, of one of
      our most distinguished apostles of the future, R. W.
      Emerson, and situated under the ministry of our old
      friend Reverend Barzillai Frost, to whom please make my
      remembrances. I heard from you, also, that Concord
      Academy, lately under the care of Mr. Phineas Allen of
      Northfield, is now vacant of a preceptor; should Mr. Hoar
      find it difficult to get a scholar college-distinguished,
      perhaps he would take up with one, who, though in many
      respects a critical thinker, and a careful philosopher of
      language among other things, has never distinguished
      himself in his class as a regular attendant on college
      studies and rules. If so, could you do me the kindness to
      mention my name to him as of one intending to make
      teaching his profession, at least for a part of his life.
      If recommendations are necessary, President Quincy has
      offered me one, and I can easily get others."

[7] This eldest of the children of John Thoreau and Cynthia Dunbar was
born October 22, 1812, and died June 14, 1849. Her grandmother, Mary
Jones of Weston, Mass., belonged to a Tory family, and several of the
Jones brothers served as officers in the British army against General
Washington.

[8] White Pond, in the district called "Nine-Acre Corner," is here
meant; the "Lee-vites" were a family then living on Lee's Hill.
Naushawtuck is another name for this hill, where the old Tahatawan
lived at times, before the English settled in Concord in September,
1635. The real date of this letter is November 11-14, 1837, and
between its two dates the Massachusetts State election was held. The
"great council-house" was the Boston State-House, to which the Concord
people were electing deputies; the "Eagle-Beak" named on the next page
was doubtless Samuel Hoar, the first citizen of the town, and for a
time Member of Congress from Middlesex County. He was the father of
Rockwood and Frisbie Hoar, afterwards judge and senator respectively.

[9] A delicate sarcasm on young B., who could not finish his speech in
town-meeting without looking at his notes. The allusion to the
"Medicine whose words are like the music of the mockingbird" is hard
to explain; it may mean Edward Everett, then Governor of
Massachusetts, or, possibly, Emerson, whose lectures began to attract
notice in Boston and Cambridge. It can hardly mean Wendell Phillips,
though his melodious eloquence had lately been heard in attacks upon
slavery.

[10] _Americana_, in this note, is the old _Encyclopedia Americana_,
which had been edited from the German _Conversations-Lexicon_, and
other sources, by Dr. Francis Lieber, T. G. Bradford, and other Boston
scholars, ten years earlier, and was the only convenient book of
reference at Thoreau's hand. The inquiry of John Thoreau is another
evidence of the interest he took, like his brother, in the Indians and
their flint arrowheads. The relics mentioned in the next letter were
doubtless Indian weapons and utensils, very common about Taunton in
the region formerly controlled by King Philip.

[11] Dr. Edward Jarvis, born in Concord (1803), had gone to
Louisville, Ky., in April, 1837, and was thriving there as a
physician. He knew the Thoreaus well, and gave them good hopes of
success in Ohio or Kentucky as teachers. The plan was soon abandoned,
and Henry went to Maine to find a school, but without success. See
Sanborn's _Thoreau_, p. 57.

[12] This was the old monument of the Fight in 1775, for the
dedication of which Emerson wrote his hymn, "By the rude bridge." This
was sung by Thoreau, among others, to the tune of Old Hundred.

[13] For twenty-five years (1866-91) the house of Ellery Channing, and
now of Charles Emerson, nephew of Waldo Emerson.

[14] The steamer Lexington lately burnt on Long Island Sound, with Dr.
Follen on board.

[15] Mrs. Brown was the elder sister of Mrs. R. W. Emerson and of the
eminent chemist and geologist, Dr. Charles T. Jackson, of Plymouth and
Boston. She lived for a time in Mrs. Thoreau's family, and Thoreau's
early verses, "Sic Vita," were thrown into her window there by the
young poet, wrapped round a cluster of violets.

[16] This business of pencil-making had become the family
bread-winner, and Henry Thoreau worked at it and kindred arts by
intervals for the next twenty years.

[17] I. T. Williams, who had lived in Concord, but now wrote from
Buffalo, N. Y.

[18] Mrs. Brown, to whom this letter and several others of the years
1841-43 were written, lived by turns in Plymouth, her native place,
and in Concord, where she often visited Mrs. Emerson at the time when
Thoreau was an inmate of the Emerson household. In the early part of
1843 she was in Plymouth, and her sister was sending her newspapers
and other things, from time to time. The incident of the music-box,
mentioned above, occurred at the Old Manse, where Hawthorne was living
from the summer of 1842 until the spring of 1845, and was often
visited by Thoreau and Ellery Channing. In the letter following, this
incident is recalled, and with it the agreeable gift by Richard Fuller
(a younger brother of Margaret Fuller and of Ellen, the wife of Ellery
Channing, who came to reside in Concord about these years, and soon
became Thoreau's most intimate friend), which was a music-box for the
Thoreaus. They were all fond of music, and enjoyed it even in this
mechanical form,--one evidence of the simple conditions of life in
Concord then. The note of thanks to young Fuller, who had been,
perhaps, a pupil of Thoreau, follows this letter to Mrs. Brown, though
earlier in date. Mary Russell afterwards became Mrs. Marston Watson.

[19] Editor of the _Democratic Review_, for which Hawthorne, Emerson,
Thoreau, and Whittier all wrote, more or less.

[20] An interesting fact in connection with Thoreau and Wheeler (whose
home was in Lincoln, four miles southeast of Concord) is related by
Ellery Channing in a note to me. It seems that Wheeler had built for
himself, or hired from a farmer, a rough woodland study near Flint's
Pond, half-way from Lincoln to Concord, which he occupied for a short
time in 1841-42, and where Thoreau and Channing visited him. Mr.
Channing wrote me in 1883: "Stearns Wheeler built a 'shanty' on
Flint's Pond for the purpose of economy, for purchasing Greek books
and going abroad to study. Whether Mr. Thoreau assisted him to build
this shanty I cannot say, but I think he may have; also that he spent
six weeks with him there. As Mr. Thoreau was not too original and
inventive to follow the example of others, if good to him, it is very
probable this undertaking of Stearns Wheeler, whom he regarded (as I
think I have heard him say) a heroic character, suggested his own
experiment on Walden. I believe I visited this shanty with Mr.
Thoreau. It was very plain, with bunks of straw, and built in the
Irish manner. I think Mr. Wheeler was as good a mechanic as Mr.
Thoreau, and built this shanty for his own use. The object of these
two experiments was quite unlike, except in the common purpose of
economy. It seems to me highly probable that Mr. Wheeler's experiment
suggested Mr. Thoreau's, as he was a man he almost worshiped. But I
could not understand what relation Mr. Lowell had to this fact, if it
be one. Students, in all parts of the earth, have pursued a similar
course from motives of economy, and to carry out some special study.
Mr. Thoreau wished to study birds, flowers, and the stone age, just as
Mr. Wheeler wished to study Greek. And Mr. Hotham came next from just
the same motive of economy (necessity) and to study the Bible. The
prudential sides of all three were the same." Mr. Hotham was the young
theological student who dwelt in a cabin by Walden in 1869-70.

[21] An English critic and poetaster. See _Memoir of Bronson Alcott_,
pp. 292-318.

[22] _Thoreau, the Poet-Naturalist._ With Memorial Verses. By William
Ellery Channing, New Edition, enlarged, edited by F. B. Sanborn
(Boston: Charles Goodspeed, 1902). This volume, in some respects the
best biography of Thoreau, is no longer rare. Among the Verses are
those written by Channing for his friend's funeral; at which, also,
Mr. Alcott read Thoreau's poem of Sympathy.

[23] Headley died at the age of twenty-three, in 1788. His posthumous
book was edited in 1810 by Rev. Henry Kett, and published in London by
John Sharp.

[24] An allusion to the strange and painful death of John Thoreau, by
lockjaw. He had slightly wounded himself in shaving, and the cut
became inflamed and brought on that hideous and deforming malady, of
which, by sympathy, Henry also partook, though he recovered.

[25] _Past and Present._

[26] Of the publishing house of Bradbury & Soden, in Boston, which had
taken Nathan Hale's _Boston Miscellany_ off his hands, and had
published in it, with promise of payment, Thoreau's "Walk to
Wachusett." But much time had passed, and the debt was not paid; hence
the lack of a "shower of shillings" which the letter laments.
Emerson's reply gives the first news of the actual beginning of
Alcott's short-lived paradise at Fruitlands, and dwells with interest
on the affairs of the rural and lettered circle at Concord.

[27] At Fruitlands with the Alcotts. See Sanborn's _Thoreau_, p. 137,
for this letter.

[28] Emerson also was satisfied with it for once, and wrote to
Thoreau: "Our _Dial_ thrives well enough in these weeks. I print W. E.
Channing's 'Letters,' or the first ones, but he does not care to have
them named as his for a while. They are very agreeable reading."

[29] Afterwards Senator Hoar of Massachusetts, but then in Harvard
College.

[30] Henry James, Senior.

[31] Emerson had written, July 20: "I am sorry to say that when I
called on Bradbury & Soden, nearly a month ago, their partner, in
their absence, informed me that they should not pay you, at present,
any part of their debt on account of the _Boston Miscellany_. After
much talking, all the promise he could offer was 'that within a year
it would probably be paid,'--a probability which certainly looks very
slender. The very worst thing he said was the proposition that you
should take your payment in the form of _Boston Miscellanies_! I shall
not fail to refresh their memory at intervals."

[32] It may need to be said that these were New York weeklies--the
_Mirror_, edited in part by N. P. Willis, and the _New World_ by Park
Benjamin, formerly of Boston, whose distinction it is to have first
named Hawthorne as a writer of genius. "Miss Fuller" was
Margaret,--not yet resident in New York, whither she went to live in
1844.

[33] The allusion here is to Ellery Channing's "Youth of the Poet and
Painter," in the _Dial_,--an unfinished autobiography. The _Present_
of W. H. Channing, his cousin, named above, was a short-lived
periodical, begun September 15, 1843, and ended in April, 1844.
"McKean" was Henry Swasey McKean, who was a classmate of Charles
Emerson at Harvard in 1828, a tutor there in 1830-35, and who died in
1857.

[34] This inkstand was presented by Miss Hoar, with a note dated
"Boston, May 2, 1843," which deserves to be copied:--

DEAR HENRY,--The rain prevented me from seeing you the night before I
came away, to leave with you a parting assurance of good will and good
hope. We have become better acquainted within the two past years than
in our whole life as schoolmates and neighbors before; and I am
unwilling to let you go away without telling you that I, among your
other friends, shall miss you much, and follow you with remembrance
and all best wishes and confidence. Will you take this little inkstand
and try if it will carry ink safely from Concord to Staten Island? and
the pen, which, if you can write with steel, may be made sometimes the
interpreter of friendly thoughts to those whom you leave beyond the
reach of your voice,--or record the inspirations of Nature, who, I
doubt not, will be as faithful to you who trust her in the sea-girt
Staten Island as in Concord woods and meadows. Good-by, and εὖ πράττειν,
which, a wise man says, is the only salutation fit for the wise.

     Truly your friend,     E. HOAR.




II

GOLDEN AGE OF ACHIEVEMENT


This was the golden age of hope and achievement for the Concord poets
and philosophers. Their ranks were not yet broken by death (for
Stearns Wheeler was hardly one of them), their spirits were high, and
their faith in each other unbounded. Emerson wrote thus from Concord,
while Thoreau was perambulating Staten Island and calling on "the
false booksellers:" "Ellery Channing is excellent company, and we walk
in all directions. He remembers you with great faith and hope; thinks
you ought not to see Concord again these ten years--that you ought to
grind up fifty Concords in your mill--and much other opinion and
counsel he holds in store on this topic. Hawthorne walked with me
yesterday afternoon, and not until after our return did I read his
'Celestial Railroad,' which has a serene strength which we cannot
afford not to praise, in this low life."

The Transcendentalists had their quarterly, and even their daily
organ, for Mr. Greeley put the _Tribune_ at their service, and gave
places on its staff to Margaret Fuller and her brother-in-law
Channing, and would gladly have made room for Emerson in its columns,
if the swift utterance of a morning paper had suited his habit of
publication. While in the _Tribune_ office, Ellery Channing thus
wrote to Thoreau, after he had returned home, disappointed with New
York, to make lead pencils in his father's shop at Concord.


ELLERY CHANNING TO THOREAU (AT CONCORD).

     March 5, 1845.

MY DEAR THOREAU,--The handwriting of your letter is so miserable that
I am not sure I have made it out. If I have, it seems to me you are
the same old sixpence you used to be, rather rusty, but a genuine
piece. I see nothing for you in this earth but that field which I once
christened "Briars;" go out upon that, build yourself a hut, and there
begin the grand process of devouring yourself alive. I see no
alternative, no other hope for you. Eat yourself up; you will eat
nobody else, nor anything else. Concord is just as good a place as any
other; there are, indeed, more people in the streets of that village
than in the streets of this. This is a singularly muddy town; muddy,
solitary, and silent.

In your line, I have not done a great deal since I arrived here; I do
not mean the Pencil line, but the Staten Island line, having been
there once, to walk on a beach by the telegraph, but did not visit the
scene of your dominical duties. Staten Island is very distant from No.
30 Ann Street. I saw polite William Emerson in November last, but have
not caught any glimpse of him since then. I am as usual suffering the
various alternations from agony to despair, from hope to fear, from
pain to pleasure. Such wretched one-sided productions as you know
nothing of the universal man; you may think yourself well off.

That baker, Hecker, who used to live on two crackers a day, I have not
seen; nor Black, nor Vethake, nor Danesaz, nor Rynders, nor any of
Emerson's old cronies, excepting James, a little fat, rosy
Swedenborgian amateur with the look of a broker and the brains and
heart of a Pascal. William Channing, I see nothing of him; he is the
dupe of good feelings, and I have all-too-many of these now. I have
seen something of your friends, Waldo and Tappan, and have also seen
our good man McKean, the keeper of that stupid place, the Mercantile
Library.

       *       *       *       *       *

Acting on Channing's hint, and an old fancy of his own, Thoreau, in
the summer of 1845, built his cabin at Walden and retired there; while
Hawthorne entered the Salem custom-house, and Alcott, returning
defeated from his Fruitlands paradise, was struggling with poverty and
discouragement at Concord. Charles Lane, his English comrade, withdrew
to New York or its vicinity, and in 1846 to London, whence he had come
in 1842, full of hope and enthusiasm. A few notes of his, or about
him, may here find place. They were sent to Thoreau at Concord, and
show that Lane continued to value his candid friend. The first,
written after leaving Fruitlands, introduces the late Father Hecker,
who had been one of the family there, to Thoreau. The second and third
relate to the sale of the Alcott-Lane Library, and other matters.

  [Illustration: _Walden Woods_]


CHARLES LANE TO THOREAU (AT CONCORD).

     BOSTON, December 3, 1843.

DEAR FRIEND,--As well as my wounded hands permit, I have scribbled
something for friend Hecker, which if agreeable may be the opportunity
for entering into closer relations with him; a course I think likely
to be mutually encouraging, as well as beneficial to all men. But let
it reach him in the manner most conformable to your own feelings. That
from all perils of a false position you may shortly be relieved, and
landed in the position where you feel "at home," is the sincere wish
of yours most friendly,

     CHARLES LANE.

     MR. HENRY THOREAU,
     Earl House, Coach Office.


     NEW YORK, February 17, 1846.

DEAR FRIEND,--The books you were so kind as to deposit about two years
and a half ago with Messrs. Wiley & Putnam have all been sold, but as
they were left in your name it is needful, in strict business, that
you should send an order to them to pay to me the amount due. I will
therefore thank you to inclose me such an order at your earliest
convenience in a letter addressed to your admiring friend,

     CHARLES LANE,
     Post Office, New York City.


     BOONTON, N. J., March 30, 1846.

DEAR FRIEND,--If the human nature participates of the elemental I am
no longer in danger of becoming suburban, or super-urban, that is to
say, too urbane. I am now more likely to be converted into a
petrifaction, for slabs of rock and foaming waters never so abounded
in my neighborhood. A very Peter I shall become: on this rock _He_ has
built _his church_. You would find much joy in these eminences and in
the views therefrom.

My pen has been necessarily unproductive in the continued motion of
the sphere in which I have lately been moved. You, I suppose, have not
passed the winter to the world's unprofit.

You never have seen, as I have, the book with a preface of 450 pages
and a text of 60. My letter is like unto it.

I have only to add that your letter of the 26th February did its work,
and that I submit to you cordial thanks for the same. Yours truly,

     CHAS. LANE.

I hope to hear occasionally of your doings and those of your compeers
in your classic plowings and diggings.

     TO HENRY D. THOREAU,
     Concord Woods.

Thoreau's letters to Lane have not come into any editor's hands. In
England, before Lane's discovery by Alcott, in 1842, he had been the
editor of the _Mark-Lane Gazette_ (or something similar), which gave
the price-current of wheat, etc., in the English markets. Emerson
found him in Hampstead, London, in February, 1848, and wrote to
Thoreau: "I went last Sunday, for the first time, to see Lane at
Hampstead, and dined with him. He was full of friendliness and
hospitality; has a school of sixteen children, one lady as matron,
then Oldham. That is all the household. They looked just comfortable."

"Lane instructed me to ask you to forward his _Dials_ to him, which
must be done, if you can find them. Three bound volumes are among his
books in my library. The fourth volume is in unbound numbers at J.
Munroe & Co.'s shop, received there in a parcel to my address, a day
or two before I sailed, and which I forgot to carry to Concord. It
must be claimed without delay. It is certainly there,--was opened by
me and left; and they can inclose all four volumes to Chapman for me."

This would indicate that he had not lost interest in the days and
events of his American sojourn,--unpleasant as some of these must have
been to the methodical, prosaic Englishman.

While at Walden, Thoreau wrote but few letters; there is, however, a
brief correspondence with Mr. J. E. Cabot, then an active naturalist,
coöperating with Agassiz in his work on the American fishes, who had
requested Thoreau to procure certain species from Concord. The letters
were written from the cabin at Walden, and it is this same structure
that figures in the letters from Thoreau to Emerson in England, as the
proposed nucleus of the cottage of poor Hugh the gardener, before he
ran away from Concord, as there narrated, on a subsequent page. The
first sending of river-fish was in the end of April, 1847. Then
followed this letter:--


TO ELLIOT CABOT (AT BOSTON).

     CONCORD, May 8, 1847.

DEAR SIR,--I believe that I have not yet acknowledged the receipt of
your notes, and a five-dollar bill. I am very glad that the fishes
afforded Mr. Agassiz so much pleasure. I could easily have obtained
more specimens of the _Sternothærus odoratus_; they are quite numerous
here. I will send more of them ere long. Snapping turtles are perhaps
as frequently met with in our muddy river as anything, but they are
not always to be had when wanted. It is now rather late in the season
for them. As no one makes a business of seeking them, and they are
valued for soups, science may be forestalled by appetite in this
market, and it will be necessary to bid pretty high to induce persons
to obtain or preserve them. I think that from seventy-five cents to a
dollar apiece would secure all that are in any case to be had, and
will set this price upon their heads, if the treasury of science is
full enough to warrant it.

You will excuse me for taking toll in the shape of some, it may be,
impertinent and unscientific inquiries. There are found in the waters
of the Concord, so far as I know, the following kinds of fishes:--

_Pickerel._ Besides the common, fishermen distinguish the brook, or
grass pickerel, which bites differently, and has a shorter snout.
Those caught in Walden, hard by my house, are easily distinguished
from those caught in the river, being much heavier in proportion to
their size, stouter, firmer-fleshed, and lighter-colored. The little
pickerel which I sent last, jumped into the boat in its fright.

_Pouts._ Those in the pond are of different appearance from those that
I have sent.

_Breams._ Some more green, others more brown.

_Suckers._ The horned, which I sent first, and the black. I am not
sure whether the common or Boston sucker is found here. Are the three
which I sent last, which were speared in the river, identical with the
three black suckers, taken by hand in the brook, which I sent before?
I have never examined them minutely.

_Perch._ The river perch, of which I sent five specimens in the box,
are darker-colored than those found in the pond. There are myriads of
small ones in the latter place, and but few large ones. I have counted
ten transverse bands on some of the smaller.

_Lampreys._ Very scarce since the dams at Lowell and Billerica were
built.

_Shiners._ _Leuciscus chrysoleucus_, silver and golden. What is the
difference?

_Roach_ or _Chiverin_ (_Leuciscus pulchellus_, _argenteus_, or what
not). The _white_ and the _red_. The former described by Storer, but
the latter, which deserves distinct notice, not described, to my
knowledge. Are the minnows (called here dace), of which I sent three
live specimens, I believe, one larger and two smaller, the young of
this species?

_Trout._ Of different appearance in different brooks in this
neighborhood.

_Eels._

_Red-finned Minnows_, of which I sent you a dozen alive. I have never
recognized them in any books. Have they any scientific name?

If convenient, will you let Dr. Storer see these brook minnows? There
is also a kind of dace or fresh-water smelt in the pond, which is,
perhaps, distinct from any of the above. What of the above does M.
Agassiz particularly wish to see? Does he want more specimens of kinds
which I have already sent? There are also minks, muskrats, frogs,
lizards, tortoises, snakes, caddice-worms, leeches, muscles, etc., or
rather, _here they are_. The funds which you sent me are nearly
exhausted. Most fishes can now be taken with the hook, and it will
cost but little trouble or money to obtain them. The snapping turtles
will be the main expense. I should think that five dollars more, at
least, might be profitably expended.


TO ELLIOT CABOT (AT BOSTON).

     CONCORD, June 1, 1847.

_Dear Sir_,--I send you 15 pouts, 17 perch, 13 shiners, 1 larger land
tortoise, and 5 muddy tortoises, all from the pond by my house. Also 7
perch, 5 shiners, 8 breams, 4 dace(?), 2 muddy tortoises, 5 painted
do., and 3 land do., all from the river. One black snake, alive, and
one dormouse(?) caught last night in my cellar. The tortoises were all
put in alive; the fishes were alive yesterday, _i. e._, Monday, and
some this morning. Observe the difference between those from the pond,
which is pure water, and those from the river.

I will send the light-colored trout and the pickerel with the longer
snout, which is our large one, when I meet with them. I have set a
price upon the heads of snapping turtles, though it is late in the
season to get them.

If I wrote red-finned eel, it was a slip of the pen; I meant
red-finned minnow. This is their name here; though smaller specimens
have but a slight reddish tinge at the base of the pectorals.

Will you, at your leisure, answer these queries?

Do you mean to say that the twelve banded minnows which I sent are
undescribed, or only one? What are the scientific names of those
minnows which have any? Are the four dace I send to-day identical with
one of the former, and what are they called? Is there such a fish as
the black sucker described,--distinct from the common?


AGASSIZ TO THOREAU (AT CONCORD).

In October, 1849, Agassiz, in reply to a request from Thoreau that he
would lecture in Bangor, sent this characteristic letter:--

"I remember with much pleasure the time when you used to send me
specimens from your vicinity, and also our short interview in the
Marlborough Chapel.[35] I am under too many obligations of your
kindness to forget it. I am very sorry that I missed your visit in
Boston; but for eighteen months I have now been settled in Cambridge.
It would give me great pleasure to engage for the lectures you ask
from me for the Bangor Lyceum; but I find it has been last winter such
a heavy tax upon my health, that I wish for the present to make no
engagements; as I have some hope of making my living this year by
other efforts,--and beyond the necessity of my wants, both domestic
and scientific, I am determined not to exert myself; as all the time I
can thus secure to myself must be exclusively devoted to science. My
only business is my intercourse with nature; and could I do without
draughtsmen, lithographers, etc., I would live still more retired.
This will satisfy you that whenever you come this way I shall be
delighted to see you,--since I have also heard something of your mode
of living."

       *       *       *       *       *

Agassiz had reason indeed to remember the collections made by Thoreau,
since (from the letters of Mr. Cabot) they aided him much in his
comparison of the American with the European fishes. When the first
firkin of Concord fish arrived in Boston, where Agassiz was then
working, "he was highly delighted, and began immediately to spread
them out and arrange them for his draughtsman. Some of the species he
had seen before, but never in so fresh condition; others, as the
breams and the pout, he had seen only in spirits, and the little
tortoise he knew only from the books. I am sure you would have felt
fully repaid for your trouble," adds Mr. Cabot, "if you could have
seen the eager satisfaction with which he surveyed each fin and
scale." Agassiz himself wrote the same day: "I have been highly
pleased to find that the small mud turtle was really the _Sternothærus
odoratus_, as I suspected,--a very rare species, quite distinct from
the snapping turtle. The suckers were all of one and the same species
(_Catastomus tuberculatus_); the female has the tubercles. As I am
very anxious to send some snapping turtles home with my first boxes, I
would thank Mr. T. very much if he could have some taken for me."

Mr. Cabot goes on: "Of the perch Agassiz remarked that it was almost
identical with that of Europe, but distinguishable, on close
examination, by the tubercles on the sub-operculum.... More of the
painted tortoises would be acceptable. The snapping turtles are very
interesting to him as forming a transition from the turtles proper to
the alligator and crocodile.... We have received three boxes from you
since the first." (May 27.) "Agassiz was much surprised and pleased at
the extent of the collections you sent during his absence in New York.
Among the fishes there is one, and probably two, new species. The
fresh-water smelt he does not know. He is very anxious to see the
pickerel with the long snout, which he suspects may be the _Esox
estor_, or Maskalongé; he has seen this at Albany.... As to the minks,
etc., I know they would all be very acceptable to him. When I asked
him about these, and more specimens of what you have sent, he said, 'I
dare not make any request, for I do not know how much trouble I may be
giving to Mr. Thoreau; but my method of examination requires many more
specimens than most naturalists would care for.'" (June 1.) "Agassiz
is delighted to find one, and he thinks two, more new species; one is
a Pomotis,--the bream without the red spot in the operculum, and with
a red belly and fins. The other is the shallower and lighter colored
shiner. The four dace you sent last are _Leuciscus argenteus_. They
are different from that you sent before under this name, but which was
a new species. Of the four kinds of minnow, two are new. There is a
black sucker (_Catastomus nigricans_), but there has been no specimen
among those you have sent, and A. has never seen a specimen. He seemed
to know your mouse, and called it the white-bellied mouse. It was the
first specimen he had seen. I am in hopes to bring or send him to
Concord, to look after new _Leucisci_, etc." Agassiz did afterwards
come, more than once, and examined turtles with Thoreau.

Soon after this scientific correspondence, Thoreau left his retreat by
Walden to take the place of Emerson in his household, while his friend
went to visit Carlyle and give lectures in England. The letters that
follow are among the longest Thoreau ever composed, and will give a
new conception of the writer to those who may have figured him as a
cold, stoical, or selfish person, withdrawn from society and its
duties. The first describes the setting out of Emerson for Europe.


TO SOPHIA THOREAU (AT BANGOR).

     CONCORD, October 24, 1847.

DEAR SOPHIA,--I thank you for those letters about Ktaadn, and hope you
will save and send me the rest, and anything else you may meet with
relating to the Maine woods. That Dr. Young is both young and green
too at traveling in the woods. However, I hope he got "yarbs" enough
to satisfy him. I went to Boston the 5th of this month to see Mr.
Emerson off to Europe. He sailed in the Washington Irving
packet-ship; the same in which Mr. [F. H.] Hedge went before him. Up
to this trip the first mate aboard this ship was, as I hear, one
Stephens, a Concord boy, son of Stephens the carpenter, who used to
live above Mr. Dennis's. Mr. Emerson's stateroom was like a carpeted
dark closet, about six feet square, with a large keyhole for a window.
The window was about as big as a saucer, and the glass two inches
thick, not to mention another skylight overhead in the deck, the size
of an oblong doughnut, and about as opaque. Of course it would be in
vain to look up, if any contemplative promenader put his foot upon it.
Such will be his lodgings for two or three weeks; and instead of a
walk in Walden woods he will take a promenade on deck, where the few
trees, you know, are stripped of their bark. The steam-tug carried the
ship to sea against a head wind without a rag of sail being raised.

I don't remember whether you have heard of the new telescope at
Cambridge or not. They think it is the best one in the world, and have
already seen more than Lord Rosse or Herschel. I went to see Perez
Blood's, some time ago, with Mr. Emerson. He had not gone to bed, but
was sitting in the wood-shed, in the dark, alone, in his astronomical
chair, which is all legs and rounds, with a seat which can be inserted
at any height. We saw Saturn's rings, and the mountains in the moon,
and the shadows in their craters, and the sunlight on the spurs of the
mountains in the dark portion, etc., etc. When I asked him the power
of his glass, he said it was 85. But what is the power of the
Cambridge glass? 2000!!! The last is about twenty-three feet long.

I think you may have a grand time this winter pursuing some
study,--keeping a journal, or the like,--while the snow lies deep
without. Winter is the time for study, you know, and the colder it is
the more studious we are. Give my respects to the whole Penobscot
tribe, and tell them that I trust we are good brothers still, and
endeavor to keep the chain of friendship bright, though I do dig up a
hatchet now and then. I trust you will not stir from your comfortable
winter quarters, Miss Bruin, or even put your head out of your hollow
tree, till the sun has melted the snow in the spring, and "the green
buds, they are a-swellin'."

     From your         BROTHER HENRY.

This letter will explain some of the allusions in the first letter to
Emerson in England. Perez Blood was a rural astronomer living in the
extreme north quarter of Concord, next to Carlisle, with his two
maiden sisters, in the midst of a fine oak wood; their cottage being
one of the points in view when Thoreau and his friends took their
afternoon rambles. Sophia Thoreau, the younger and soon the only
surviving sister, was visiting her cousins in Maine, the "Penobscot
tribe" of whom the letter makes mention, with an allusion to the
Indians of that name near Bangor. His letter to her and those which
follow were written from Emerson's house, where Thoreau lived during
the master's absence across the ocean. It was in the orchard of this
house that Alcott was building that summer-house at which Thoreau,
with his geometrical eye, makes merry in the next letter.


TO R. W. EMERSON (IN ENGLAND).

     CONCORD, November 14, 1847.

DEAR FRIEND,--I am but a poor neighbor to you here,--a very poor
companion am I. I understand that very well, but that need not prevent
my _writing_ to you now. I have almost never written letters in my
life, yet I think I can write as good ones as I frequently see, so I
shall not hesitate to write this, such as it may be, knowing that you
will welcome anything that reminds you of Concord.

I have banked up the young trees against the winter and the mice, and
I will look out, in my careless way, to see when a pale is loose or a
nail drops out of its place. The broad gaps, at least, I will occupy.
I heartily wish I could be of good service to this household. But I,
who have only used these ten digits so long to solve the problem of a
living, how can I? The world is a cow that is hard to milk,--life does
not come so easy,--and oh, how thinly it is watered ere we get it! But
the young bunting calf, he will get at it. There is no way so direct.
This is to earn one's living by the sweat of his brow. It is a little
like joining a community, this life, to such a hermit as I am; and as
I don't keep the accounts, I don't know whether the experiment will
succeed or fail finally. At any rate, it is good for society, so I do
not regret my transient nor my permanent share in it.

Lidian [Mrs. Emerson] and I make very good housekeepers. She is a
very dear sister to me. Ellen and Edith and Eddy and Aunty Brown keep
up the tragedy and comedy and tragic-comedy of life as usual. The two
former have not forgotten their old acquaintance; even Edith carries a
young memory in her head, I find. Eddy can teach us all how to
pronounce. If you should discover any rare hoard of wooden or pewter
horses, I have no doubt he will know how to appreciate it. He
occasionally surveys mankind from my shoulders as wisely as ever
Johnson did. I respect him not a little, though it is I that lift him
up so unceremoniously. And sometimes I have to set him down again in a
hurry, according to his "mere will and good pleasure." He very
seriously asked me, the other day, "Mr. Thoreau, will you be my
father?" I am occasionally Mr. Rough-and-tumble with him that I may
not miss _him_, and lest he should miss _you_ too much. So you must
come back soon, or you will be superseded.

Alcott has heard that I laughed, and so set the people laughing, at
his arbor, though I never laughed louder than when I was on the
ridge-pole. But now I have not laughed for a long time, it is so
serious. He is very grave to look at. But, not knowing all this, I
strove innocently enough, the other day, to engage his attention to my
mathematics. "Did you ever study geometry, the relation of straight
lines to curves, the transition from the finite to the infinite? Fine
things about it in Newton and Leibnitz." But he would hear none of
it,--men of taste preferred the natural curve. Ah, he is a crooked
stick himself. He is getting on now so many _knots_ an hour. There is
one knot at present occupying the point of highest elevation,--the
present highest point; and as many knots as are not handsome, I
presume, are thrown down and cast into the pines. Pray show him this
if you meet him anywhere in London, for I cannot make him hear much
plainer words here. He forgets that I am neither old nor young, nor
anything in particular, and behaves as if I had still some of the
animal heat in me. As for the building, I feel a little oppressed when
I come near it. It has no great disposition to be beautiful; it is
certainly a wonderful structure, on the whole, and the fame of the
architect will endure as long as it shall stand. I should not show you
this side alone, if I did not suspect that Lidian had done complete
justice to the other.

Mr. [Edmund] Hosmer has been working at a tannery in Stow for a
fortnight, though he has just now come home sick. It seems that he was
a tanner in his youth, and so he has made up his mind a little at
last. This comes of reading the New Testament. was n't one of the
Apostles a tanner? Mrs. Hosmer remains here, and John looks stout
enough to fill his own shoes and his father's too.

Mr. Blood and his company have at length seen the stars through the
great telescope, and he told me that he thought it was worth the
while. Mr. Peirce made him wait till the crowd had dispersed (it was a
Saturday evening), and then was quite polite,--conversed with him, and
showed him the micrometer, etc.; and he said Mr. Blood's glass was
large enough for all ordinary astronomical work. [Rev.] Mr. Frost and
Dr. [Josiah] Bartlett seemed disappointed that there was no greater
difference between the Cambridge glass and the Concord one. They used
only a power of 400. Mr. Blood tells me that he is too old to study
the calculus or higher mathematics. At Cambridge they think that they
have discovered traces of another satellite to Neptune. They have been
obliged to exclude the public altogether, at last. The very dust which
they raised, "which is filled with minute crystals," etc., as
professors declare, having to be wiped off the glasses, would ere long
wear them away. It is true enough, Cambridge college is really
beginning to wake up and redeem its character and overtake the age. I
see by the catalogue that they are about establishing a scientific
school in connection with the university, at which any one above
eighteen, on paying one hundred dollars annually (Mr. Lawrence's fifty
thousand dollars will probably diminish this sum), may be instructed
in the highest branches of science,--in astronomy, "theoretical and
practical, with the use of the instruments" (so the great Yankee
astronomer may be born without delay), in mechanics and engineering to
the last degree. Agassiz will ere long commence his lectures in the
zoölogical department. A chemistry class has already been formed under
the direction of Professor Horsford. A new and adequate building for
the purpose is already being erected. They have been foolish enough to
put at the end of all this earnest the old joke of a diploma. Let
every sheep keep but his own skin, I say.

I have had a tragic correspondence, for the most part all on one side,
with Miss ----. She did really wish to--I hesitate to write--marry
me. That is the way they spell it. Of course I did not write a
deliberate answer. How could I deliberate upon it? I sent back as
distinct a _no_ as I have learned to pronounce after considerable
practice, and I trust that this _no_ has succeeded. Indeed, I wished
that it might burst, like hollow shot, after it had struck and buried
itself and made itself felt there. _There was no other way._ I really
had anticipated no such foe as this in my career.

I suppose you will like to hear of my book, though I have nothing
worth writing about it. Indeed, for the last month or two I have
forgotten it, but shall certainly remember it again. Wiley & Putnam,
Munroe, the Harpers, and Crosby & Nichols have all declined printing
it with the least risk to themselves; but Wiley & Putnam will print it
in their series, and any of them anywhere, at _my_ risk. If I liked
the book well enough, I should not delay; but for the present I am
indifferent. I believe this is, after all, the course you advised,--to
let it lie.

I do not know what to say of myself. I sit before my green desk, in
the chamber at the head of the stairs, and attend to my thinking,
sometimes more, sometimes less distinctly. I am not unwilling to think
great thoughts if there are any in the wind, but what they are I am
not sure. They suffice to keep me awake while the day lasts, at any
rate. Perhaps they will redeem some portion of the night ere long.

I can imagine you astonishing, bewildering, confounding, and sometimes
delighting John Bull with your Yankee notions, and that he begins to
take a pride in the relationship at last; introduced to all the stars
of England in succession, after the lecture, until you pine to thrust
your head once more into a genuine and unquestionable nebula, if there
be any left. I trust a common man will be the most uncommon to you
before you return to these parts. I have thought there was some
advantage even in death, by which we "mingle with the herd of common
men."

Hugh [the gardener] still has his eye on the Walden _agellum_, and
orchards are waving there in the windy future for him. That's the
where-I'll-go-next, thinks he; but no important steps are yet taken.
He reminds me occasionally of this open secret of his, with which the
very season seems to labor, and affirms seriously that as to his
wants--wood, stone, or timber--I know better than he. That is a
clincher which I shall have to avoid to some extent; but I fear that
it is a wrought nail and will not break. Unfortunately, the day after
cattle-show--the day after small beer--he was among the missing, but
not long this time. The Ethiopian cannot change his skin nor the
leopard his spots, nor indeed Hugh--his Hugh.

As I walked over Conantum, the other afternoon, I saw a fair column of
smoke rising from the woods directly over my house that was (as I
judged), and already began to conjecture if my deed of sale would not
be made invalid by this. But it turned out to be John Richardson's
young wood, on the southeast of your field. It was burnt nearly all
over, and up to the rails and the road. It was set on fire, no doubt,
by the same Lucifer that lighted Brooks's lot before. So you see that
your small lot is comparatively safe for this season, the back fire
having been already set for you.

They have been choosing between John Keyes and Sam Staples, if the
world wants to know it, as representative of this town, and Staples is
chosen. The candidates for governor--think of my writing this to
you!--were Governor Briggs and General Cushing, and Briggs is elected,
though the Democrats have gained. Ain't I a brave boy to know so much
of politics for the nonce? But I should n't have known it if Coombs
had n't told me. They have had a peace meeting here,--I should n't
think of telling you if I did n't know anything would do for the
English market,--and some men, Deacon Brown at the head, have signed a
long pledge, swearing that they will "treat all mankind as brothers
henceforth." I think I shall wait and see how they treat me first. I
think that Nature meant kindly when she made our brothers few.
However, my voice is still for peace. So good-by, and a truce to all
joking, my dear friend, from

     H. D. T.

Upon this letter some annotations are to be made. "Eddy" was Emerson's
youngest child, Edward Waldo, then three years old and upward,--of
late years his father's biographer. Hugh, the gardener, of whom more
anon, bargained for the house of Thoreau on Emerson's land at Walden,
and for a field to go with it; but the bargain came to naught, and the
cabin was removed three or four miles to the northwest, where it
became a granary for Farmer Clark and his squirrels, near the entrance
to the park known as Estabrook's. Edmund Hosmer was the farming
friend and neighbor with whom, at one time, G. W. Curtis and his
brother took lodgings, and at another time the Alcott family. The book
in question was "A Week on the Concord and Merrimack Rivers."

To these letters Emerson replied from England:--


DEAR HENRY,--Very welcome in the parcel was your letter, very precious
your thoughts and tidings. It is one of the best things connected with
my coming hither that you could and would keep the homestead; that
fireplace shines all the brighter, and has a certain permanent glimmer
therefor. Thanks, ever more thanks for the kindness which I well
discern to the youth of the house: to my darling little horseman of
pewter, wooden, rocking, and what other breeds,--destined, I hope, to
ride Pegasus yet, and, I hope, not destined to be thrown; to Edith,
who long ago drew from you verses which I carefully preserve; and to
Ellen, whom by speech, and now by letter, I find old enough to be
companionable, and to choose and reward her own friends in her own
fashions. She sends me a poem to-day, which I have read three times!


TO R. W. EMERSON (IN ENGLAND).

     CONCORD, December 15, 1847.

DEAR FRIEND,--You are not so far off but the affairs of _this_ world
still attract you. Perhaps it will be so when we are dead. Then look
out. Joshua R. Holman, of Harvard, who says he lived a month with
[Charles] Lane at Fruitlands, wishes to _hire_ said Lane's farm for
one or more years, and will pay $125 rent, taking out of the same a
half, if necessary, for repairs,--as for a new bank-wall to the barn
cellar, which he says is indispensable. Palmer is gone, Mrs. Palmer is
going. This is all that is known or that is worth knowing. Yes or no?
What to do?

Hugh's plot begins to thicken. He starts thus: eighty dollars on one
side; Walden, field and house, on the other. How to bring these
together so as to make a garden and a palace?

  [Illustration]

              $80       Field     House

     1st, let $10 go over to unite the two lots.
              $70

               $6 for Wetherbee's rocks to found your palace on.
              $64

              $64--so far, indeed, we have already got.
               $4 to bring the rocks to the field.
              $60

     Save     $20 by all means, to measure the field, and you have left
              $40 to complete the palace, build cellar, and dig well.
                     Build the cellar yourself, and let _well_
                     alone,--and now how does it stand?

              $40 to complete the palace somewhat like this.

For when one asks, "Why do you want twice as much room more?" the
reply is, "Parlor, kitchen, and bedroom,--these make the palace."

"Well, Hugh, what will you do? Here are forty dollars to buy a new
house, twelve feet by twenty-five, and add it to the old."

"Well, Mr. Thoreau, as I tell you, I know no more than a child about
it. It shall be just as you say."

"Then build it yourself, get it roofed, and get in.

     "Commence at one end and leave it half done,
     And let time finish what money's begun."

So you see we have forty dollars for a nest egg; sitting on which,
Hugh and I alternately and simultaneously, there may in course of time
be hatched a house that will long stand, and perchance even lay fresh
eggs one day for its owner; that is, if, when he returns, he gives the
young chick twenty dollars or more in addition, by way of "swichin,"
to give it a start in the world.

The _Massachusetts Quarterly Review_ came out the 1st of December, but
it does not seem to be making a sensation, at least not hereabouts. I
know of none in Concord who take or have seen it yet.

We wish to get by all possible means some notion of your success or
failure in England,--more than your two letters have furnished. Can't
you send a fair sample both of young and of old England's criticism,
if there is any printed? Alcott and [Ellery] Channing are equally
greedy with myself.

     HENRY THOREAU.

C. T. Jackson takes the _Quarterly_ (new one), and will lend it to us.
Are you not going to send your wife some news of your good or ill
success by the newspapers?


TO R. W. EMERSON (IN ENGLAND).

     CONCORD, December 29, 1847.

MY DEAR FRIEND,--I thank you for your letter. I was very glad to get
it; and I am glad again to write to you. However slow the steamer, no
time intervenes between the writing and the reading of thoughts, but
they come freshly to the most distant port. I am here still, and very
glad to be here, and shall not trouble you with any complaints because
I do not fill my place better. I have had many good hours in the
chamber at the head of the stairs,--a solid time, it seems to me. Next
week I am going to give an account to the Lyceum of my expedition to
Maine. Theodore Parker lectures to-night. We have had Whipple on
Genius,--too weighty a subject for him, with his antithetical
definitions new-vamped,--what it _is_, what it is _not_, but
altogether what it is _not_; cuffing it this way and cuffing it that,
as if it were an India-rubber ball. Really, it is a subject which
should expand, expand, accumulate itself before the speaker's eyes as
he goes on, like the snowballs which the boys roll in the street; and
when it stops, it should be so large that he cannot start it, but must
leave it there. [H. N.] Hudson, too, has been here, with a dark shadow
in the core of him, and his desperate wit, so much indebted to the
surface of him,--wringing out his words and snapping them off like a
dish-cloth; very remarkable, but not memorable. Singular that these
two best lecturers should have so much "wave" in their timber,--their
solid parts to be made and kept solid by shrinkage and contraction of
the whole, with consequent checks and fissures.

Ellen and I have a good understanding. I appreciate her genuineness.
Edith tells me after her fashion: "By and by I shall grow up and be a
woman, and then I shall remember how you exercised me." Eddy has been
to Boston to Christmas, but can remember nothing but the coaches, all
Kendall's coaches. There is no variety of that vehicle that he is not
familiar with. He _did_ try twice to tell us something else, but,
after thinking and stuttering a long time, said, "I don't know what
the word is,"--the _one_ word, forsooth, that would have disposed of
all that Boston phenomenon. If you did not know him better than I, I
could tell you more. He is a good companion for me, and I am glad that
we are all natives of Concord. It is _young Concord_. Look out, World!

Mr. Alcott seems to have sat down for the winter. He has got Plato and
other books to read. He is as large-featured and hospitable to
traveling thoughts and thinkers as ever; but with the same Connecticut
philosophy as ever, mingled with what is better. If he would only
stand upright and toe the line!--though he were to put off several
degrees of largeness, and put on a considerable degree of littleness.
After all, I think we must call him particularly _your_ man.

I have pleasant walks and talks with Channing. James Clark--the
Swedenborgian that was--is at the poorhouse, insane with too large
views, so that he cannot support himself. I see him working with Fred
and the rest. Better than be there and not insane. It is strange that
they will make ado when a man's body is buried, but not when he thus
really and tragically dies, or seems to die. Away with your funeral
processions,--into the ballroom with them! I hear the bell toll hourly
over there.[36]

Lidian and I have a standing quarrel as to what is a suitable state
of preparedness for a traveling professor's visit, or for whomsoever
else; but further than this we are not at war. We have made up a
dinner, we have made up a bed, we have made up a party, and our own
minds and mouths, three several times for your professor, and he came
not. Three several turkeys have died the death, which I myself carved,
just as if he had been there; and the company, too, convened and
demeaned themselves accordingly. Everything was done up in good style,
I assure you, with only the part of the professor omitted. To have
seen the preparation (though Lidian says it was nothing extraordinary)
I should certainly have said he was a-coming, but he did not. He must
have found out some shorter way to Turkey,--some overland route, I
think. By the way, he was complimented, at the conclusion of his
course in Boston, by the mayor moving the appointment of a committee
to draw up resolutions expressive, etc., which was done.

I have made a few verses lately. Here are some, though perhaps not the
best,--at any rate they are the shortest,--on that universal theme,
yours as well as mine, and several other people's:--

     The good how can we trust!
     Only the wise are just.
     The good, we use,
     The wise we cannot choose;
     These there are none above.
     The good, they know and love,
     But are not known again
     By those of lesser ken.
     They do not charm us with their eyes,
     But they transfix with their advice;
     No partial sympathy they feel
     With private woe or private weal,
     But with the universe joy and sigh,
     Whose knowledge is their sympathy.

     Good-night.     HENRY THOREAU.

P. S.--I am sorry to send such a medley as this to you. I have
forwarded Lane's _Dial_ to Munroe, and he tells the expressman that
all is right.


TO R. W. EMERSON (IN ENGLAND).

     CONCORD, January 12, 1848.

It is hard to believe that England is so near as from your letters it
appears; and that this identical piece of paper has lately come all
the way from there hither, begrimed with the English dust which made
you hesitate to use it; from England, which is only historical
fairyland to me, to America, which I have put my spade into, and about
which there is no doubt.

I thought that you needed to be informed of Hugh's progress. He has
moved his house, as I told you, and dug his cellar, and purchased
stone of Sol Wetherbee for the last, though he has not hauled it; all
which has cost sixteen dollars, which I have paid. He has also, as
next in order, run away from Concord without a penny in his pocket,
"crying" by the way,--having had another long difference with strong
beer, and a first one, I suppose, with his wife, who seems to have
complained that he sought other society; the one difference leading to
the other, perhaps, but I don't know which was the leader. He writes
back to his wife from Sterling, near Worcester, where he is chopping
wood, his distantly kind reproaches to her, which I read straight
through to her (not to his bottle, which he has with him, and no doubt
addresses orally). He says that he will go on to the South in the
spring, and will never return to Concord. Perhaps he will not. Life is
not tragic enough for him, and he must try to cook up a more highly
seasoned dish for himself. Towns which keep a barroom and a gun-house
and a reading-room, should also keep a steep precipice whereoff
impatient soldiers may jump. His sun went down, _to me_, bright and
steady enough in the west, but it never came up in the east. Night
intervened. He departed, as when a man dies suddenly; and perhaps
wisely, if he was to go, without settling his affairs. They knew that
that was a thin soil and not well calculated for pears. Nature is rare
and sensitive on the score of nurseries. You may cut down orchards and
grow forests at your pleasure. Sand watered with strong beer, though
stirred with industry, will not produce grapes. He dug his cellar for
the new part too near the old house, Irish like, though I warned him,
and it has caved and let one end of the house down. Such is the state
of his domestic affairs. I laugh with the Parcæ only. He had got the
upland and the orchard and a part of the meadow plowed by Warren, at
an expense of eight dollars, still unpaid, which of course is no
affair of yours.

I think that if an honest and small-familied man, who has no affinity
for moisture in him, but who has an affinity for sand, can be found,
it would be safe to rent him the shanty as it is, and the land; or you
can very easily and simply let nature keep them still, without great
loss. It may be so managed, perhaps, as to be a home for somebody, who
shall in return serve you as fencing stuff, and to fix and locate your
lot, as we plant a tree in the sand or on the edge of a stream;
without expense to you in the meanwhile, and without disturbing its
possible future value.

I read a part of the story of my excursion to Ktaadn to quite a large
audience of men and boys, the other night, whom it interested. It
contains many facts and some poetry. I have also written what will do
for a lecture on "Friendship."

I think that the article on you in _Blackwood's_ is a good deal to get
from the reviewers,--the first purely literary notice, as I remember.
The writer is far enough off, in every sense, to speak with a certain
authority. It is a better judgment of posterity than the public had.
It is singular how sure he is to be mystified by any uncommon sense.
But it was generous to put Plato into the list of mystics. His
confessions on this subject suggest several thoughts, which I have not
room to express here. The old word _seer_,--I wonder what the reviewer
thinks that means; whether that _he_ was a man who could _see more
than himself_.

I was struck by Ellen's asking me, yesterday, while I was talking with
Mrs. Brown, if I did not use "_colored_ words." She said that she
could tell the color of a great many words, and amused the children at
school by so doing. Eddy climbed up the sofa, the other day, _of his
own accord_, and kissed the picture of his father,--"right on his
shirt, I did."

I had a good talk with Alcott this afternoon. He is certainly the
youngest man of his age we have seen,--just on the threshold of life.
When I looked at his gray hairs, his conversation sounded pathetic;
but I looked again, and they reminded me of the gray dawn. He is
getting better acquainted with Channing, though he says that, if they
were to live in the same house, they would soon sit with their backs
to each other.[37]

You must excuse me if I do not write with sufficient directness to
yourself, who are a far-off traveler. It is a little like shooting on
the wing, I confess.

     Farewell.     HENRY THOREAU.


TO R. W. EMERSON (IN ENGLAND).

     CONCORD, February 23, 1848.

DEAR WALDO,--For I think I have heard that that is your name,--my
letter which was put last into the leathern bag arrived first.
Whatever I may _call_ you, I know you better than I know your name,
and what becomes of the fittest name if in any sense you are here with
him who _calls_, and not there simply to be called?

I believe I never thanked you for your lectures, one and all, which I
heard formerly read here in Concord. I _know_ I never have. There was
some excellent reason each time why I did not; but it will never be
too late. I have that advantage, at least, over you in my education.

Lidian is too unwell to write to you; so I must tell you what I can
about the children and herself. I am afraid she has not told you how
unwell she is,--or to-day perhaps we may say has been. She has been
confined to her chamber four or five weeks, and three or four weeks,
at least, to her bed, with the jaundice. The doctor, who comes once a
day, does not let her read (nor can she now) nor _hear_ much reading.
She has written her letters to you, till recently, sitting up in bed,
but he said he would not come again if she did so. She has Abby and
Almira to take care of her, and Mrs. Brown to read to her; and I also,
occasionally, have something to read or to say. The doctor says she
must not expect to "take any comfort of her life" for a week or two
yet. She wishes me to say that she has written two long and full
letters to you about the household economies, etc., which she hopes
have not been delayed. The children are quite well and full of
spirits, and are going through a regular course of picture-seeing,
with commentary by me, every evening, for Eddy's behoof. All the
Annuals and "Diadems" are in requisition, and Eddy is forward to
exclaim, when the hour arrives, "Now for the demdems!" I overheard
this dialogue when Frank [Brown] came down to breakfast the other
morning.

_Eddy._ "Why, Frank, I am astonished that you should leave your boots
in the dining-room."

_Frank._ "I guess you mean _surprised_, don't you?"

_Eddy._ "No, boots!"

"If Waldo were here," said he, the other night, at bedtime, "we'd be
four going upstairs." Would he like to tell papa anything? No, not
anything; but finally, yes, he would,--that one of the white horses in
his new barouche is broken! Ellen and Edith will perhaps speak for
themselves, as I hear something about letters to be written by them.

Mr. Alcott seems to be reading well this winter: Plato, Montaigne, Ben
Jonson, Beaumont and Fletcher, Sir Thomas Browne, etc., etc. "I
believe I have read them all now, or nearly all,"--those English
authors. He is rallying for another foray with his pen, in his latter
years, not discouraged by the past, into that crowd of unexpressed
ideas of his, that undisciplined Parthian army, which, as soon as a
Roman soldier would face, retreats on all hands, occasionally firing
backwards; easily routed, not easily subdued, hovering on the skirts
of society. Another summer shall not be devoted to the raising of
vegetables (Arbors?) which rot in the cellar for want of consumers;
but perchance to the arrangement of the material, the brain-crop which
the winter has furnished. I have good talks with him. His respect for
Carlyle has been steadily increasing for some time. He has read him
with new sympathy and appreciation.

I see Channing often. He also goes often to Alcott's, and confesses
that he has made a discovery in him, and gives vent to his admiration
or his confusion in characteristic exaggeration; but between this
extreme and that you may get a fair report, and draw an inference if
you can. Sometimes he will ride a broomstick still, though there is
nothing to keep him, or it, up but a certain centrifugal force of
whim, which is soon spent, and there lies your stick, not worth
picking up to sweep an oven with now. His accustomed path is strewn
with them. But then again, and perhaps for the most part, he sits on
the Cliffs amid the lichens, or flits past on noiseless pinion, like
the barred owl in the daytime, as wise and unobserved. He brought me a
poem the other day, for me, on Walden Hermitage: not remarkable.[38]

Lectures begin to multiply on my desk. I have one on Friendship which
is new, and the materials of some others. I read one last week to the
Lyceum, on The Rights and Duties of the Individual in Relation to
Government,--much to Mr. Alcott's satisfaction.

Joel Britton has failed and gone into chancery, but the woods continue
to fall before the axes of other men. Neighbor Coombs[39] was lately
found dead in the woods near Goose Pond, with his half-empty jug,
after he had been rioting a week. Hugh, by the last accounts, was
still in Worcester County. Mr. Hosmer, who is himself again, and
living in Concord, has just hauled the rest of your wood, amounting to
about ten and a half cords.

The newspapers say that they have printed a pirated edition of your
Essays in England. Is it as bad as they say, and undisguised and
unmitigated piracy? I thought that the printed scrap would entertain
Carlyle, notwithstanding its history. If this generation will see out
of its hind-head, why then you may turn your back on its
forehead. Will you forward it to him for me?

  [Illustration: _The Hosmer House_]

This stands written in your day-book: "September 3d. Received of
Boston Savings Bank, on account of Charles Lane, his deposit with
interest, $131.33. 16th. Received of Joseph Palmer, on account of
Charles Lane, three hundred twenty-three 36/100 dollars, being the
balance of a note on demand for four hundred dollars, with interest,
$323.36."

If you have any directions to give about the trees, you must not
forget that spring will soon be upon us.

Farewell. From your friend,

     HENRY THOREAU.

Before a reply came to this letter, Thoreau had occasion to write to
Mr. Elliot Cabot again. The allusions to the "Week" and to the Walden
house are interesting.


TO ELLIOT CABOT.

     CONCORD, March 8, 1848.

DEAR SIR,--Mr. Emerson's address is as yet, "R. W. Emerson, care of
Alexander Ireland, Esq., Examiner Office, Manchester, England." We had
a letter from him on Monday, dated at Manchester, February 10, and he
was then preparing to go to Edinburgh the next day, where he was to
lecture. He thought that he should get through his northern journeying
by the 25th of February, and go to London to spend March and April,
and if he did not go to Paris in May, then come home. He has been
eminently successful, though the papers this side of the water have
been so silent about his adventures.

My book,[40] fortunately, did not find a publisher ready to undertake
it, and you can imagine the effect of delay on an author's estimate of
his own work. However, I like it well enough to mend it, and shall
look at it again directly when I have dispatched some other things.

I have been writing lectures for our own Lyceum this winter, mainly
for my own pleasure and advantage. I esteem it a rare happiness to be
able to _write_ anything, but there (if I ever get there) my concern
for it is apt to end. Time & Co. are, after all, the only quite honest
and trustworthy publishers that we know. I can sympathize, perhaps,
with the barberry bush, whose business it is solely to _ripen_ its
fruit (though that may not be to sweeten it) and to protect it with
thorns, so that it holds on all winter, even, unless some hungry crows
come to pluck it. But I see that I must get a few dollars together
presently to manure my roots. Is your journal able to pay anything,
provided it likes an article well enough? I do not promise one. At any
rate, I mean always to spend only words enough to purchase silence
with; and I have found that this, which is so valuable, though many
writers do not prize it, does not cost much, after all.

I have not obtained any more of the mice which I told you were so
numerous in my cellar, as my house was removed immediately after I
saw you, and I have been living in the village since.

However, if I should happen to meet with anything rare, I will forward
it to you. I thank you for your kind offers, and will avail myself of
them so far as to ask if you can anywhere borrow for me for a short
time the copy of the _Revue des Deux Mondes_ containing a notice of
Mr. Emerson. I should like well to read it, and to read it to Mrs.
Emerson and others. If this book is not easy to be obtained, do not by
any means trouble yourself about it.


TO R. W. EMERSON.[41]

     CONCORD, March 23, 1848.

DEAR FRIEND,--Lidian says I must write a sentence about the children.
Eddy says he cannot sing,--"not till mother is a-going to be well." We
shall hear his voice very soon, in that case, I trust. Ellen is
already thinking what will be done when you come home; but then she
thinks it will be some loss that I shall go away. Edith says that I
shall come and see them, and always at tea-time, so that I can play
with her. Ellen thinks she likes father best because he jumps her
sometimes. This is the latest news from

     Yours, etc.,     HENRY.

P. S.--I have received three newspapers from you duly which I have not
acknowledged. There is an anti-Sabbath convention held in Boston
to-day, to which Alcott has gone.

       *       *       *       *       *

That friend to whom Thoreau wrote most constantly and fully, on all
topics, was Mr. Harrison Blake of Worcester, a graduate of Harvard two
years earlier than Thoreau, in the same class with two other young men
from Concord,--E. R. Hoar and H. B. Dennis. This circumstance may have
led to Mr. Blake's visiting the town occasionally, before his intimacy
with its poet-naturalist began, in the year 1848. At that time, as
Thoreau wrote to Horace Greeley, he had been supporting himself for
five years wholly by the labor of his hands; his Walden hermit life
was over, yet neither its record nor the first book had been
published, and Thoreau was known in literature chiefly by his papers
in the _Dial_, which had then ceased for four years. In March, 1848,
Mr. Blake read Thoreau's chapter on Persius in the _Dial_ for July,
1840,--and though he had read it before without being much impressed
by it, he now found in it "pure depth and solidity of thought." "It
has revived in me," he wrote to Thoreau, "a haunting impression of
you, which I carried away from some spoken words of yours.... When I
was last in Concord, you spoke of retiring farther from our
civilization. I asked you if you would feel no longings for the
society of your friends. Your reply was in substance, 'No, I am
nothing.' That reply was memorable to me. It indicated a depth of
resources, a completeness of renunciation, a poise and repose in the
universe, which to me is almost inconceivable; which in you seemed
domesticated, and to which I look up with veneration. I would know of
that soul which can say 'I am nothing.' I would be roused by its words
to a truer and purer life. Upon me seems to be dawning with new
significance the idea that God is here; that we have but to bow before
Him in profound submission at every moment, and He will fill our souls
with his presence. In this opening of the soul to God, all duties seem
to centre; what else have we to do?... If I understand rightly the
significance of your life, this is it: You would sunder yourself from
society, from the spell of institutions, customs, conventionalities,
that you may lead a fresh, simple life with God. Instead of breathing
a new life into the old forms, you would have a new life without and
within. There is something sublime to me in this attitude,--far as I
may be from it myself.... Speak to me in this hour as you are
prompted.... I honor you because you abstain from action, and open
your soul that you may _be_ somewhat. Amid a world of noisy, shallow
actors it is noble to stand aside and say, 'I will simply _be_.' Could
I plant myself at once upon the truth, reducing my wants to their
minimum, ... I should at once be brought nearer to nature, nearer to
my fellow-men,--and life would be infinitely richer. But, alas! I
shiver on the brink."

Thus appealed to by one who had so well attained the true
Transcendental shibboleth,--"God working in us, both to will and to
do,"--Thoreau could not fail to make answer, as he did at once, and
thus:--


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

[The first of many letters.]

     CONCORD, March 27, 1848.

I am glad to hear that any words of mine, though spoken so long ago
that I can hardly claim identity with their author, have reached you.
It gives me pleasure, because I have therefore reason to suppose that
I have uttered what concerns men, and that it is not in vain that man
speaks to man. This is the value of literature. Yet those days are so
distant, in every sense, that I have had to look at that page again,
to learn what was the tenor of my thoughts then. I should value that
article, however, if only because it was the occasion of your letter.

I do believe that the outward and the inward life correspond; that if
any should succeed to live a higher life, others would not know of it;
that difference and distance are one. To set about living a true life
is to go a journey to a distant country, gradually to find ourselves
surrounded by new scenes and men; and as long as the old are around
me, I know that I am not in any true sense living a new or a better
life. The outward is only the outside of that which is within. Men are
not concealed under habits, but are revealed by them; they are their
true clothes. I care not how curious a reason they may give for their
abiding by them. Circumstances are not rigid and unyielding, but our
habits are rigid. We are apt to speak vaguely sometimes, as if a
divine life were to be grafted on to or built over this present as a
suitable foundation. This might do if we could so build over our old
life as to exclude from it all the warmth of our affection, and addle
it, as the thrush builds over the cuckoo's egg, and lays her own atop,
and hatches that only; but the fact is, we--so thin is the
partition--hatch them both, and the cuckoo's always by a day first,
and that young bird crowds the young thrushes out of the nest. No.
Destroy the cuckoo's egg, or build a new nest.

Change is change. No new life occupies the old bodies;--they decay.
_It_ is born, and grows, and flourishes. Men very pathetically inform
the old, accept and wear it. Why put up with the almshouse when you
may go to heaven? It is embalming,--no more. Let alone your ointments
and your linen swathes, and go into an infant's body. You see in the
catacombs of Egypt the result of that experiment,--that is the end of
it.

I do believe in simplicity. It is astonishing as well as sad, how many
trivial affairs even the wisest man thinks he must attend to in a day;
how singular an affair he thinks he must omit. When the mathematician
would solve a difficult problem, he first frees the equation of all
incumbrances, and reduces it to its simplest terms. So simplify the
problem of life, distinguish the necessary and the real. Probe the
earth to see where your main roots run. I would stand upon facts. Why
not see,--use our eyes? Do men know nothing? I know many men who, in
common things, are not to be deceived; who trust no moonshine; who
count their money correctly, and know how to invest it; who are said
to be prudent and knowing, who yet will stand at a desk the greater
part of their lives, as cashiers in banks, and glimmer and rust and
finally go out there. If they _know_ anything, what under the sun do
they do that for? Do they know what _bread_ is? or what it is for? Do
they know what life is? If they _knew_ something, the places which
know them now would know them no more forever.

This, our respectable daily life, on which the man of common sense,
the Englishman of the world, stands so squarely, and on which our
institutions are founded, is in fact the veriest illusion, and will
vanish like the baseless fabric of a vision; but that faint glimmer of
reality which sometimes illuminates the darkness of daylight for all
men, reveals something more solid and enduring than adamant, which is
in fact the cornerstone of the world.

Men cannot conceive of a state of things so fair that it cannot be
realized. Can any man honestly consult his experience and say that it
is so? Have we any facts to appeal to when we say that our dreams are
premature? Did you ever hear of a man who had striven all his life
faithfully and singly toward an object and in no measure obtained it?
If a man constantly aspires, is he not elevated? Did ever a man try
heroism, magnanimity, truth, sincerity, and find that there was no
advantage in them? that it was a vain endeavor? Of course we do not
expect that our paradise will be a garden. We know not what we ask. To
look at literature;--how many fine thoughts has every man had! how few
fine thoughts are expressed! Yet we never have a fantasy so subtle and
ethereal, but that _talent merely_, with more resolution and faithful
persistency, after a thousand failures, might fix and engrave it in
distinct and enduring words, and we should see that our dreams are the
solidest facts that we know. But I speak not of dreams.

What can be expressed in words can be expressed in life.

My actual life is a fact, in view of which I have no occasion to
congratulate myself; but for my faith and aspiration I have respect.
It is from these that I speak. Every man's position is in fact too
simple to be described. I have sworn no oath. I have no designs on
society, or nature, or God. I am simply what I am, or I begin to be
that. I _live_ in the _present_. I only remember the past, and
anticipate the future. I love to live. I love reform better than its
modes. There is no history of how bad became better. I believe
something, and there is nothing else but that. I know that I am. I
know that another is who knows more than I, who takes interest in me,
whose creature, and yet whose kindred, in one sense, am I. I know that
the enterprise is worthy. I know that things work well. I have heard
no bad news.

As for positions, combinations, and details,--what are they? In clear
weather, when we look into the heavens, what do we see but the sky and
the sun?

If you would convince a man that he does wrong, do right. But do not
care to convince him. Men will believe what they see. Let them see.

Pursue, keep up with, circle round and round your life, as a dog does
his master's chaise. Do what you love. Know your own bone; gnaw at
it, bury it, unearth it, and gnaw it still. Do not be too moral. You
may cheat yourself out of much life so. Aim above morality. Be not
simply good; be good for something. All fables, indeed, have their
morals; but the innocent enjoy the story. Let nothing come between you
and the light. Respect men and brothers only. When you travel to the
Celestial City, carry no letter of introduction. When you knock, ask
to see God,--none of the servants. In what concerns you much, do not
think that you have companions: know that you are alone in the world.

Thus I write at random. I need to see you, and I trust I shall, to
correct my mistakes. Perhaps you have some oracles for me.

     HENRY THOREAU.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, May 2, 1848

"We must have our bread." But what is our bread? Is it baker's bread?
Methinks it should be very _home-made_ bread. What is our meat? Is it
butcher's meat? What is that which we _must_ have? Is that bread which
we are now earning sweet? Is it not bread which has been suffered to
sour, and then been sweetened with an alkali, which has undergone the
vinous, the acetous, and sometimes the putrid fermentation, and then
been whitened with vitriol? Is this the bread which we must have? Man
must earn his bread by the sweat of his brow, truly, but also by the
sweat of his brain within his brow. The body can feed the body only. I
have tasted but little bread in my life. It has been mere grub and
provender for the most part. Of bread that nourished the brain and the
heart, scarcely any. There is absolutely none on the tables even of
the rich.

There is not one kind of food for all men. You must and you will feed
those faculties which you exercise. The laborer whose body is weary
does not require the same food with the scholar whose brain is weary.
Men should not labor foolishly like brutes, but the brain and the body
should always, or as much as possible, work and rest together, and
then the work will be of such a kind that when the body is hungry the
brain will be hungry also, and the same food will suffice for both;
otherwise the food which repairs the waste energy of the overwrought
body will oppress the sedentary brain, and the degenerate scholar will
come to esteem all food vulgar, and all getting a living drudgery.

How shall we earn our bread is a grave question; yet it is a sweet and
inviting question. Let us not shirk it, as is usually done. It is the
most important and practical question which is put to man. Let us not
answer it hastily. Let us not be content to get our bread in some
gross, careless, and hasty manner. Some men go a-hunting, some
a-fishing, some a-gaming, some to war; but none have so pleasant a
time as they who in earnest seek to earn their bread. It is true
actually as it is true really; it is true materially as it is true
spiritually, that they who seek honestly and sincerely, with all their
hearts and lives and strength, to earn their bread, do earn it, and it
is sure to be very sweet to them. A very little bread,--a very few
crumbs are enough, if it be of the right quality, for it is
infinitely nutritious. Let each man, then, earn at least a crumb of
bread for his body before he dies, and know the taste of it,--that it
is identical with the bread of life, and that they both go down at one
swallow.

Our bread need not ever be sour or hard to digest. What Nature is to
the mind she is also to the body. As she feeds my imagination, she
will feed my body; for what she says she means, and is ready to do.
She is not simply beautiful to the poet's eye. Not only the rainbow
and sunset are beautiful, but to be fed and clothed, sheltered and
warmed aright, are equally beautiful and inspiring. There is not
necessarily any gross and ugly fact which may not be eradicated from
the life of man. We should endeavor practically in our lives to
correct all the defects which our imagination detects. The heavens are
as deep as our aspirations are high. So high as a tree aspires to
grow, so high it will find an atmosphere suited to it. Every man
should stand for a force which is perfectly irresistible. How can any
man be weak who dares _to be_ at all? Even the tenderest plants force
their way up through the hardest earth and the crevices of rocks; but
a man no material power can resist. What a wedge, what a beetle, what
a catapult, is an _earnest_ man! What can resist him?

It is a momentous fact that a man may be _good_, or he may be _bad_;
his life may be _true_, or it may be _false_; it may be either a shame
or a glory to him. The good man builds himself up; the bad man
destroys himself.

But whatever we do we must do confidently (if we are timid, let us,
then, act timidly), not expecting more light, but having light enough.
If we confidently expect more, then let us wait for it. But what is
this which we have? Have we not already waited? Is this the beginning
of time? Is there a man who does not see clearly beyond, though only a
hair's breadth beyond where he at any time stands?

If one hesitates in his path, let him not proceed. Let him respect his
doubts, for doubts, too, may have some divinity in them, That we have
but little faith is not sad, but that we have but little faithfulness.
By faithfulness faith is earned. When, in the progress of a life, a
man swerves, though only by an angle infinitely small, from his proper
and allotted path (and this is never done quite unconsciously even at
first; in fact, that was his broad and scarlet sin,--ah, he knew of it
more than he can tell), then the drama of his life turns to tragedy,
and makes haste to its fifth act. When once we thus fall behind
ourselves, there is no accounting for the obstacles which rise up in
our path, and no one is so wise as to advise, and no one so powerful
as to aid us while we abide on that ground. Such are cursed with
_duties_, and the _neglect of their duties_. For such the decalogue
was made, and other far more voluminous and terrible codes.

These departures,--who have not made them?--for they are as faint as
the parallax of a fixed star, and at the commencement we say they are
nothing,--that is, they originate in a kind of sleep and forgetfulness
of the soul when it is naught. A man cannot be too circumspect in
order to keep in the straight road, and be sure that he sees all that
he may at any time see, that so he may distinguish his true path.

You ask if there is no doctrine of sorrow in my philosophy. Of acute
sorrow I suppose that I know comparatively little. My saddest and most
genuine sorrows are apt to be but transient regrets. The place of
sorrow is supplied, perchance, by a certain hard and proportionately
barren indifference. I am of kin to the sod, and partake largely of
its dull patience,--in winter expecting the sun of spring. In my
cheapest moments I am apt to think that it is n't my business to be
"seeking the spirit," but as much its business to be seeking me. I
know very well what Goethe meant when he said that he never had a
chagrin but he made a poem out of it. I have altogether too much
patience of this kind. I am too easily contented with a slight and
almost animal happiness. My happiness is a good deal like that of the
woodchucks.

Methinks I am never quite committed, never wholly the creature of my
moods, but always to some extent their critic. My only integral
experience is in my vision. I see, perchance, with more integrity than
I feel.

But I need not tell you what manner of man I am,--my virtues or my
vices. You can guess if it is worth the while; and I do not
discriminate them well.

I do not write this at my hut in the woods. I am at present living
with Mrs. Emerson, whose house is an old home of mine, for company
during Mr. Emerson's absence.

You will perceive that I am as often talking to myself, perhaps, as
speaking to you.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here is a confession of faith, and a bit of self-portraiture worth
having; for there is little except faithful statement of the fact. Its
sentences are based on the questions and experiences of his
correspondent; yet they diverge into that atmosphere of humor and
hyperbole so native to Thoreau; in whom was the oddest mixture of the
serious and the comic, the literal and the romantic. He addressed
himself also, so far as his unbending personality would allow, to the
mood or the need of his correspondent; and he had great skill in
fathoming character and describing in a few touches the persons he
encountered; as may be seen in his letters to Emerson, especially, who
also had, and in still greater measure, this "fatal gift of
penetration," as he once termed it. This will be seen in the contrast
of Thoreau's correspondence with Mr. Blake, and that he was holding at
the same time with Horace Greeley,--persons radically unlike.

In August, 1846, Thoreau sent to Greeley his essay on Carlyle, asking
him to find a place for it in some magazine. Greeley sent it to R. W.
Griswold, then editing _Graham's Magazine_ in Philadelphia, who
accepted it and promised to pay for it, but did not publish it till
March and April, 1847; even then the promised payment was not
forthcoming. On the 31st of March, 1848, a year and a half after it
had been put in Griswold's possession, Thoreau wrote again to Greeley,
saying that no money had come to hand. At once, and at the very time
when Mr. Blake was opening his spiritual state to Thoreau (April 3,
1848), the busy editor of the _Tribune_ replied: "It saddens and
surprises me to know that your article was not paid for by Graham;
and, since my honor is involved, I will see that you are paid, and
that at no distant day." Accordingly, on May 17, he adds: "To-day I
have been able to lay my hand on the money due you. I made out a
regular bill for the contribution, drew a draft on G. R. Graham for
the amount, gave it to his brother in New York for collection, and
received the money. I have made Graham pay you seventy-five dollars,
but I only send you fifty dollars," having deducted twenty-five
dollars for the advance of that sum he had made a month before to
Thoreau for his "Ktaadn and the Maine Woods," which finally came out
in _Sartain's Union Magazine_ of Philadelphia, late in 1848. To this
letter and remittance of fifty dollars Thoreau replied, May 19, 1848,
substantially thus:--


TO HORACE GREELEY (AT NEW YORK).

     CONCORD, May 19, 1848.

MY FRIEND GREELEY,--I have to-day received from you fifty dollars. It
is five years that I have been maintaining myself entirely by manual
labor,--not getting a cent from any other quarter or employment. Now
this toil has occupied so few days,--perhaps a single month, spring
and fall each,--that I must have had more leisure than any of my
brethren for study and literature. I have done rude work of all kinds.
From July, 1845, to September, 1847, I lived by myself in the forest,
in a fairly good cabin, plastered and warmly covered, which I built
myself. There I earned all I needed, and kept to my own affairs.
During that time my weekly outlay was but seven and twenty cents; and
I had an abundance of all sorts. Unless the human race perspire more
than I do, there is no occasion to live by the sweat of their brow. If
men cannot get on without money (the smallest amount will suffice),
the truest method of earning it is by working as a laborer at one
dollar per day. You are least dependent so; I speak as an expert,
having used several kinds of labor.

Why should the scholar make a constant complaint that his fate is
specially hard? We are too often told of "the pursuit of knowledge
under difficulties,"--how poets depend on patrons and starve in
garrets, or at last go mad and die. Let us hear the other side of the
story. Why should not the scholar, if he is really wiser than the
multitude, do coarse work now and then? Why not let his greater wisdom
enable him to do without things? If you say the wise man is unlucky,
how could you distinguish him from the foolishly unfortunate?

My friend, how can I thank you for your kindness? Perhaps there is a
better way,--I will convince you that it is felt and appreciated. Here
have I been sitting idle, as it were, while you have been busy in my
cause, and have done so much for me. I wish you had had a better
subject; but good deeds are no less good because their object is
unworthy.

Yours was the best way to collect money,--but I should never have
thought of it; I might have waylaid the debtor perchance. Even a
business man might not have thought of it,--and I cannot be called
that, as business is understood usually,--not being familiar with the
routine. But your way has this to commend it also,--if you make the
draft, you decide how much to draw. You drew just the sum suitable.

The Ktaadn paper can be put in the guise of letters, if it runs best
so; dating each part on the day it describes. Twenty-five dollars more
for it will satisfy me; I expected no more, and do not hold you to pay
that,--for you asked for something else, and there was delay in
sending. So, if you use it, send me twenty-five dollars now or after
you sell it, as is most convenient; but take out the expenses that I
see you must have had. In such cases carriers generally get the most;
but you, as carrier here, get no money, but risk losing some, besides
much of your time; while I go away, as I must, giving you unprofitable
thanks. Yet trust me, my pleasure in your letter is not wholly a
selfish one. May my good genius still watch over me and my added
wealth!

P. S.--My book grows in bulk as I work on it; but soon I shall get
leisure for those shorter articles you want,--then look out.

       *       *       *       *       *

The "book," of course, was the "Week," then about to go through the
press; the shorter articles were some that Greeley suggested for the
Philadelphia magazines. Nothing came of this, but the correspondence
was kept up until 1854, and led to the partial publication of "Cape
Cod" and "The Yankee in Canada" in the newly launched _Putnam's
Magazine_, of which G. W. Curtis was editor. But he differed with
Thoreau on a matter of style or opinion (the articles appearing as
anonymous, or editorial), and the author withdrew his MS. The letters
of Greeley in this entertaining series are all preserved; but Greeley
seems to have given Thoreau's away for autographs; and the only one
accessible as yet is that just paraphrased.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT MILTON).

     CONCORD, August 10, 1849.

MR. BLAKE,--I write now chiefly to say, before it is too late, that I
shall be glad to see you in Concord, and will give you a chamber,
etc., in my father's house, and as much of my poor company as you can
bear.

I am in too great haste this time to speak to your, or out of my,
condition. I might say,--you might say,--comparatively speaking, be
not anxious to avoid poverty. In this way the wealth of the universe
may be securely invested. What a pity if we do not live this short
time according to the laws of the long time,--the eternal laws! Let us
see that we stand erect here, and do not lie along by our _whole
length_ in the dirt. Let our meanness be our footstool, not our
cushion. In the midst of this labyrinth let us live a _thread_ of
life. We must act with so rapid and resistless a purpose in _one_
direction, that our vices will necessarily trail behind. The nucleus
of a comet is almost a star. Was there ever a genuine dilemma? The
laws of earth are for the feet, or inferior man; the laws of heaven
are for the head, or superior man; the latter are the former sublimed
and expanded, even as radii from the earth's centre go on diverging
into space. Happy the man who observes the heavenly and the
terrestrial law in just proportion; whose every faculty, from the
soles of his feet to the crown of his head, obeys the law of its
level; who neither stoops nor goes on tiptoe, but lives a balanced
life, acceptable to nature and to God.

These things I say; other things I do.

I am sorry to hear that you did not receive my book earlier. I
directed it and left it in Munroe's shop to be sent to you
immediately, on the twenty-sixth of May, before a copy had been sold.

Will you remember me to Mr. Brown, when you see him next: he is well
remembered by

     HENRY THOREAU.

I still owe you a worthy answer.


TO HARRISON BLAKE.

     CONCORD, November 20, 1849.

MR. BLAKE,--I have not forgotten that I am your debtor. When I read
over your letters, as I have just done, I feel that I am unworthy to
have received or to answer them, though they are addressed, as I would
have them, to the ideal of me. It behooves me, if I would reply, to
speak out of the rarest part of myself.

At present I am subsisting on certain wild flavors which nature wafts
to me, which unaccountably sustain me, and make my apparently poor
life rich. Within a year my walks have extended themselves, and almost
every afternoon (I read, or write, or make pencils in the forenoon,
and by the last means get a living for my body) I visit some new hill,
or pond, or wood, many miles distant. I am astonished at the
wonderful retirement through which I move, rarely meeting a man in
these excursions, never seeing one similarly engaged, unless it be my
companion, when I have one. I cannot help feeling that of all the
human inhabitants of nature hereabouts, only we two have leisure to
admire and enjoy our inheritance.

"Free in this world as the birds in the air, disengaged from every
kind of chains, those who have practiced the _yoga_ gather in Brahma
the certain fruit of their works."

Depend upon it that, rude and careless as I am, I would fain practice
the _yoga_ faithfully.

"The yogi, absorbed in contemplation, contributes in his degree to
creation: he breathes a divine perfume, he hears wonderful things.
Divine forms traverse him without tearing him, and, united to the
nature which is proper to him, he goes, he acts as animating original
matter."

To some extent, and at rare intervals, even I am a yogi.

I know little about the affairs of Turkey, but I am sure that I know
something about barberries and chestnuts, of which I have collected a
store this fall. When I go to see my neighbor, he will formally
communicate to me the latest news from Turkey, which he read in
yesterday's mail,--"Now Turkey by this time looks determined, and Lord
Palmerston"--Why, I would rather talk of the bran, which,
unfortunately, was sifted out of my bread this morning, and thrown
away. It is a fact which lies nearer to me. The newspaper gossip with
which our hosts abuse our ears is as far from a true hospitality as
the viands which they set before us. We did not need them to feed our
bodies, and the news can be bought for a penny. We want the inevitable
news, be it sad or cheering, wherefore and by what means they are
extant this _new_ day. If they are well, let them whistle and dance;
if they are dyspeptic, it is their duty to complain, that so they may
in any case be _entertaining_. If words were invented to conceal
thought, I think that newspapers are a great improvement on a bad
invention. Do not suffer your life to be taken by newspapers.

I thank you for your hearty appreciation of my book. I am glad to have
had such a long talk with you, and that you had patience to listen to
me to the end. I think that I had the advantage of you, for I chose my
own mood, and in one sense your mood too,--that is, a quiet and
attentive reading mood. Such advantage has the writer over the talker.
I am sorry that you did not come to Concord in your vacation. Is it
not time for another vacation? I am here yet, and Concord is here.

You will have found out by this time who it is that writes this, and
will be glad to have you write to him, without his subscribing himself

     HENRY D. THOREAU.

P. S.--It is so long since I have seen you, that, as you will
perceive, I have to speak, as it were, _in vacuo_, as if I were
sounding hollowly for an echo, and it did not make much odds what kind
of a sound I made. But the gods do not hear any rude or discordant
sound, as we learn from the echo; and I know that the nature toward
which I launch these sounds is so rich that it will modulate anew and
wonderfully improve my rudest strain.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT MILTON).

     CONCORD, April 3, 1850.

MR. BLAKE,--I thank you for your letter, and I will endeavor to record
some of the thoughts which it suggests, whether pertinent or not. You
speak of poverty and dependence. Who are poor and dependent? Who are
rich and independent? When was it that men agreed to respect the
appearance and not the reality? Why should the appearance _appear_?
Are we well acquainted, then, with the reality? There is none who does
not lie hourly in the respect he pays to false appearance. How sweet
it would be to treat men and things, for an hour, for just what they
are! We wonder that the sinner does not confess his sin. When we are
weary with travel, we lay down our load and rest by the wayside. So,
when we are weary with the burden of life, why do we not lay down this
load of falsehoods which we have volunteered to sustain, and be
refreshed as never mortal was? Let the beautiful laws prevail. Let us
not weary ourselves by resisting them. When we would rest our bodies
we cease to support them; we recline on the lap of earth. So, when we
would rest our spirits, we must recline on the Great Spirit. Let
things alone; let them weigh what they will; let them soar or fall. To
succeed in letting only one thing alone in a winter morning, if it be
only one poor frozen-thawed apple that hangs on a tree, what a
glorious achievement! Methinks it lightens through the dusky universe.
What an infinite wealth we have discovered! God reigns, _i. e._, when
we take a liberal view,--when a liberal view is presented us.

Let God alone if need be. Methinks, if I loved him more, I should keep
him--I should keep myself rather--at a more respectful distance. It is
not when I am going to meet him, but when I am just turning away and
leaving him alone, that I discover that God is. I say, God. I am not
sure that that is the name. You will know whom I mean.

If for a moment we make way with our petty selves, wish no ill to
anything, apprehend no ill, cease to be but as the crystal which
reflects a ray,--what shall we not reflect! What a universe will
appear crystallized and radiant around us!

I should say, let the Muse lead the Muse,--let the understanding lead
the understanding, though in any case it is the farthest forward which
leads them both. If the Muse accompany, she is no muse, but an
amusement. The Muse should lead like a star which is very far off; but
that does not imply that we are to follow foolishly, falling into
sloughs and over precipices, for it is not foolishness, but
understanding, which is to follow, which the Muse is appointed to
lead, as a fit guide of a fit follower?

Will you live? or will you be embalmed? Will you live, though it be
astride of a sunbeam; or will you repose safely in the catacombs for a
thousand years? In the former case, the worst accident that can
happen is that you may break your neck. Will you break your heart,
your soul, to save your neck? Necks and pipe-stems are fated to be
broken. Men make a great ado about the folly of demanding too much of
life (or of eternity?), and of endeavoring to live according to that
demand. It is much ado about nothing. No harm ever came from that
quarter. I am not afraid that I shall exaggerate the value and
significance of life, but that I shall not be up to the occasion which
it is. I shall be sorry to remember that I was there, but noticed
nothing remarkable,--not so much as a prince in disguise; lived in the
golden age a hired man; visited Olympus even, but fell asleep after
dinner, and did not hear the conversation of the gods. I lived in
Judæa eighteen hundred years ago, but I never knew that there was such
a one as Christ among my contemporaries! If there is anything more
glorious than a congress of men a-framing or amending of a
constitution going on, which I suspect there is, I desire to see the
morning papers. I am greedy of the faintest rumor, though it were got
by listening at the keyhole. I will dissipate myself in that
direction.

I am glad to know that you find what I have said on Friendship worthy
of attention. I wish that I could have the benefit of your criticism;
it would be a rare help to me. Will you not communicate it?


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT MILTON).

     CONCORD, May 28, 1850.

MR. BLAKE,--"I never found any contentment in the life which the
newspapers record,"--anything of more value than the cent which they
cost. Contentment in being covered with dust an inch deep! We who walk
the streets, and hold time together, are but the refuse of ourselves,
and that life is for the shells of us,--of our body and our mind,--for
our scurf,--a thoroughly _scurvy_ life. It is coffee made of
coffee-grounds the twentieth time, which was only coffee the first
time,--while the living water leaps and sparkles by our doors. I know
some who, in their charity, give their coffee-grounds to the poor! We,
demanding news, and putting up with _such_ news! Is it a new
convenience, or a new accident, or, rather, a new perception of the
truth that we want!

You say that "the serene hours in which friendship, books, nature,
thought, seem alone primary considerations, visit you but faintly." Is
not the attitude of expectation somewhat divine?--a sort of home-made
divineness? Does it not compel a kind of sphere-music to attend on it?
And do not its satisfactions merge at length, by insensible degrees,
in the enjoyment of the thing expected?

What if I should forget to write about my not writing? It is not worth
the while to make that a theme. It is as if I had written every day.
It is as if I had never written before. I wonder that you think so
much about it, for not writing is the most like writing, in my case,
of anything I know.

Why will you not relate to me your dream? That would be to realize it
somewhat. You tell me that you dream, but not what you dream. I can
_guess_ what comes to pass. So do the frogs dream. Would that I knew
what. I have never found out whether they are awake or asleep,--whether
it is day or night with them.

I am preaching, mind you, to bare walls, that is, to myself; and if
you have chanced to come in and occupy a pew, do not think that my
remarks are directed at you particularly, and so slam the seat in
disgust. This discourse was written long before these exciting times.

Some absorbing employment on your higher ground,--your upland
farm,--whither no cart-path leads, but where you mount alone with your
hoe,--where the life everlasting grows; there you raise a crop which
needs not to be brought down into the valley to a market; which you
barter for heavenly products.

Do you separate distinctly enough the support of your body from that
of your essence? By how distinct a course commonly are these two ends
attained! Not that they should not be attained by one and the same
means,--that, indeed, is the rarest success,--but there is no half and
half about it.

I shall be glad to read my lecture to a small audience in Worcester
such as you describe, and will only require that my expenses be paid.
If only the parlor be large enough for an echo, and the audience will
embarrass themselves with hearing as much as the lecturer would
otherwise embarrass himself with reading. But I warn you that this is
no better calculated for a promiscuous audience than the last two
which I read to you. It requires, in every sense, a concordant
audience.

I will come on next Saturday and spend Sunday with you if you wish it.
Say so if you do.

"Drink deep, or taste not the Pierian spring."

Be not deterred by melancholy on the path which leads to immortal
health and joy. When they tasted of the water of the river over which
they were to go, they thought it tasted a little bitterish to the
palate, but it proved sweeter when it was down.

     H. D. T.

      NOTE.--The "companion" of his walks, mentioned by Thoreau
      in November, 1849, was Ellery Channing; the neighbor who
      insisted on talking of Turkey was perhaps Emerson, who,
      after his visit to Europe in 1848, was more interested in
      its politics than before. Pencil-making was Thoreau's
      manual work for many years; and it must have been about
      this time (1849-53) that he "had occasion to go to New
      York to peddle some pencils," as he says in his journal
      for November 20, 1853. He adds, "I was obliged to
      manufacture one thousand dollars' worth of pencils, and
      slowly dispose of, and finally sacrifice them, in order
      to pay an assumed debt of one hundred dollars." This debt
      was for the printing of the _Week_, published in 1849,
      and finally paid for in 1855. Thoreau's pencils have sold
      (in 1893) for 25 cents each. For other facts concerning
      his debt to James Munroe, see Sanborn's _Thoreau_, pp.
      230, 235.


FOOTNOTES:

[35] Where Agassiz was giving a course of Lowell lectures.

[36] The town almshouse was across the field from the Emerson house.

[37] At this date Alcott had passed his forty-eighth year, while
Channing and Thoreau were still in the latitude of thirty. Hawthorne
had left Concord, and was in the Salem custom-house, the Old Manse
having gone back into the occupancy of Emerson's cousins, the Ripleys,
who owned it.

[38] See Sanborn's _Thoreau_, p. 214, and Channing's _Thoreau_, New
Edition, pp. 207-210, for this poem.

[39] This is the political neighbor mentioned in a former letter.

[40] From England Emerson wrote: "I am not of opinion that your book
should be delayed a month. I should print it at once, nor do I think
that you would incur any risk in doing so that you cannot well afford.
It is very certain to have readers and debtors, here as well as there.
The Dial is absurdly well known here. We at home, I think, are always
a little ashamed of it,--I am,--and yet here it is spoken of with the
utmost gravity, and I do not laugh."

[41] This letter was addressed, "R. Waldo Emerson, care of Alexander
Ireland, Esq., Manchester, England, _via_ New York and Steamer
Cambria, March 25." It was mailed in Boston, March 24, and received in
Manchester, April 19.




III

FRIENDS AND FOLLOWERS


TO R. W. EMERSON[42] (AT CONCORD).

     FIRE ISLAND BEACH,
     Thursday morning, July 25, 1850.

DEAR FRIEND,--I am writing this at the house of Smith Oakes, within
one mile of the wreck. He is the one who rendered most assistance,
William H. Channing came down with me, but I have not seen Arthur
Fuller, nor Greeley, nor Marcus Spring. Spring and Charles Sumner were
here yesterday, but left soon. Mr. Oakes and wife tell me (all the
survivors came, or were brought, directly to their house) that the
ship struck at ten minutes after four A. M., and all hands, being
mostly in their nightclothes, made haste to the forecastle, the water
coming in at once. There they remained; the passengers _in_ the
forecastle, the crew above it, doing what they could. Every wave
lifted the forecastle roof and washed over those within. The first man
got ashore at nine; many from nine to noon. At flood-tide, about half
past three o'clock, when the ship broke up entirely, they came out of
the forecastle, and Margaret sat with her back to the foremast, with
her hands on her knees, her husband and child already drowned. A great
wave came and washed her aft. The steward (?) had just before taken
her child and started for shore. Both were drowned.

The broken desk, in a bag, containing no very valuable papers; a large
black leather trunk, with an upper and under compartment, the upper
holding books and papers; a carpetbag, probably Ossoli's, and one of
his shoes (?) are all the Ossoli effects known to have been found.
Four bodies remain to be found: the two Ossolis, Horace Sumner, and a
sailor. I have visited the child's grave. Its body will probably be
taken away to-day. The wreck is to be sold at auction, excepting the
hull, to-day.

The mortar would not go off. Mrs. Hasty, the captain's wife, told Mrs.
Oakes that she and Margaret divided their money, and tied up the
halves in handkerchiefs around their persons; that Margaret took sixty
or seventy dollars. Mrs. Hasty, who can tell all about Margaret up to
eleven o'clock on Friday, is said to be going to Portland, New
England, to-day. She and Mrs. Fuller must, and probably will, come
together. The cook, the last to leave, and the steward (?) will know
the rest. I shall try to see them. In the meanwhile I shall do what I
can to recover property and obtain particulars hereabouts. William H.
Channing--did I write it?--has come with me. Arthur Fuller[43] has
this moment reached the house. He reached the beach last night. We got
here yesterday noon. A good part of the wreck still holds together
where she struck, and something may come ashore with her fragments.
The last body was found on Tuesday, three miles west. Mrs. Oakes dried
the papers which were in the trunk, and she says they appeared to be
of various kinds. "Would they cover that table?" (a small round one).
"They would if spread out. Some were tied up." There were twenty or
thirty books "in the same half of the trunk. Another smaller trunk,
empty, came ashore, but there was no mark on it." She speaks of
Paulina as if she might have been a sort of nurse to the child. I
expect to go to Patchogue, whence the pilferers must have chiefly
come, and advertise, etc.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (IN MILTON).

     CONCORD August 9, 1850.

MR. BLAKE,--I received your letter just as I was rushing to Fire
Island beach to recover what remained of Margaret Fuller, and read it
on the way. That event and its train, as much as anything, have
prevented my answering it before. It is wisest to speak when you are
spoken to. I will now endeavor to reply, at the risk of having nothing
to say.

I find that actual events, notwithstanding the singular prominence
which we all allow them, are far less real than the creations of my
imagination. They are truly visionary and insignificant,--all that we
commonly call life and death,--and affect me less than my dreams. This
petty stream which from time to time swells and carries away the
mills and bridges of our habitual life, and that mightier stream or
ocean on which we securely float,--what makes the difference between
them? I have in my pocket a button which I ripped off the coat of the
Marquis of Ossoli, on the seashore, the other day. Held up, it
intercepts the light,--an actual button,--and yet all the life it is
connected with is less substantial to me, and interests me less, than
my faintest dream. Our thoughts are the epochs in our lives: all else
is but as a journal of the winds that blew while we were here.

I say to myself, Do a little more of that work which you have
confessed to be good. You are neither satisfied nor dissatisfied with
yourself, without reason. Have you not a thinking faculty of
inestimable value? If there is an experiment which you would like to
try, try it. Do not entertain doubts if they are not agreeable to you.
Remember that you need not eat unless you are hungry. Do not read the
newspapers. Improve every opportunity to be melancholy. As for health,
consider yourself well. Do not engage to find things as you think they
are. Do what nobody else can do for you. Omit to do anything else. It
is not easy to make our lives respectable by any course of activity.
We must repeatedly withdraw into our shells of thought, like the
tortoise, somewhat helplessly; yet there is more than philosophy in
that.

Do not waste any reverence on my attitude. I merely manage to sit up
where I have dropped. I am sure that my acquaintances mistake me. They
ask my advice on high matters, but they do not know even how poorly
on 't I am for hats and shoes. I have hardly a shift. Just as shabby
as I am in my outward apparel, ay, and more lamentably shabby, am I in
my inward substance. If I should turn myself inside out, my rags and
meanness would indeed appear. I am something to him that made me,
undoubtedly, but not much to any other that he has made.

Would it not be worth while to discover nature in Milton? be native to
the universe? I, too, love Concord best, but I am glad when I
discover, in oceans and wildernesses far away, the material of a
million Concords: indeed, I am lost, unless I discover them. I see
less difference between a city and a swamp than formerly. It is a
swamp, however, too dismal and dreary even for me, and I should be
glad if there were fewer owls, and frogs, and mosquitoes in it. I
prefer ever a more cultivated place, free from miasma and crocodiles.
I am so sophisticated, and I will take my choice.

As for missing friends,--what if we do miss one another? have we not
agreed on a rendezvous? While each wanders his own way through the
wood, without anxiety, ay, with serene joy, though it be on his hands
and knees, over rocks and fallen trees, he cannot but be in the right
way. There is no wrong way to him. How can he be said to miss his
friend, whom the fruits still nourish and the elements sustain? A man
who missed his friend at a turn, went on buoyantly, dividing the
friendly air, and humming a tune to himself, ever and anon kneeling
with delight to study each little lichen in his path, and scarcely
made three miles a day for friendship. As for conforming outwardly,
and living your own life inwardly, I do not think much of that. Let
not your right hand know what your left hand does in that line of
business. It will prove a failure. Just as successfully can you walk
against a sharp steel edge which divides you cleanly right and left.
Do you wish to try your ability to resist distension? It is a greater
strain than any soul can long endure. When you get God to pulling one
way, and the devil the other, each having his feet well braced,--to
say nothing of the conscience sawing transversely,--almost any timber
will give way.

I do not dare invite you earnestly to come to Concord, because I know
too well that the berries are not thick in my fields, and we should
have to take it out in viewing the landscape. But come, on every
account, and we will see--one another.

       *       *       *       *       *

No letters of the year 1851 have been found by me. On the 27th of
December, 1850, Mr. Cabot wrote to say that the Boston Society of
Natural History, of which he was secretary, had elected Thoreau a
corresponding member, "with all the _honores_, _privilegia_, _etc._,
_ad gradum tuum pertinentia_, without the formality of paying any
entrance fee, or annual subscription. Your duties in return are to
advance the interests of the Society by communications or otherwise,
as shall seem good." This is believed to be the only learned body
which honored itself by electing Thoreau. The immediate occasion of
this election was the present, by Thoreau, to the Society, of a fine
specimen of the American goshawk, caught or shot by Jacob Farmer,
which Mr. Cabot acknowledged, December 18, 1849, saying: "It was first
described by Wilson; lately Audubon has identified it with the
European goshawk, thereby committing a very flagrant blunder. It is
usually a very rare species with us. The European bird is used in
hawking; and doubtless ours would be equally _game_. If Mr. Farmer
skins him now, he will have to take second cut; for his skin is
already off and stuffed,--his remains dissected, measured, and
deposited in alcohol."


TO T. W. HIGGINSON (AT BOSTON).

     CONCORD, April 2-3, 1852.

DEAR SIR,--I do not see that I can refuse to read another lecture, but
what makes me hesitate is the fear that I have not another available
which will _entertain_ a large audience, though I have thoughts to
offer which I think will be quite as worthy of their attention.
However, I will try; for the prospect of earning a few dollars is
alluring. As far as I can foresee, my subject would be "Reality"
rather transcendentally treated. It lies still in "Walden, or Life in
the Woods." Since you are kind enough to undertake the arrangements, I
will leave it to you to name an evening of next week, decide on the
most suitable room, and advertise,--if this is not taking you too
literally at your word.

If you still think it worth the while to attend to this, will you let
me know as soon as may be what evening will be most convenient? I
certainly do not feel prepared to offer myself as a lecturer to the
Boston _public_, and hardly know whether more to dread a small
audience or a large one. Nevertheless, I will repress this
squeamishness, and propose no alteration in your arrangements. I shall
be glad to accept your invitation to tea.

       *       *       *       *       *

This lecture was given, says Colonel Higginson, "at the Mechanics'
Apprentices Library in Boston, with the snow outside, and the young
boys rustling their newspapers among the Alcotts and Blakes." Or,
possibly, this remark may apply to a former lecture in the same year,
which was that in which Thoreau first lectured habitually away from
Concord. He commenced by accepting an invitation to speak at Leyden
Hall, in Plymouth, where his friends the Watsons had organized Sunday
services, that the Transcendentalists and Abolitionists might have a
chance to be heard at a time when they were generally excluded from
the popular "Lyceum courses" throughout New England. Mr. B. M. Watson
says:--

"I have found two letters from Thoreau in answer to my invitation in
1852 to address our congregation at Leyden Hall on Sunday
mornings,--an enterprise I undertook about that time. I find among the
distinguished men who addressed us the names of Thoreau, Emerson,
Ellery Channing, Alcott, Higginson, Remond, S. Johnson, F. J.
Appleton, Edmund Quincy, Garrison, Phillips, J. P. Lesley, Shackford,
W. F. Channing, N. H. Whiting, Adin Ballou, Abby K. Foster and her
husband, J. T. Sargent, T. T. Stone, Jones Very, Wasson, Hurlbut, F.
W. Holland, and Scherb; so you may depend we had some fun."

These letters were mere notes. The first, dated February 17, 1852,
says: "I have not yet seen Mr. Channing, though I believe he is in
town,--having decided to come to Plymouth myself,--but I will let him
know that he is expected. Mr. Daniel Foster wishes me to say that he
accepts your invitation, and that he would like to come Sunday after
next. I will take the Saturday afternoon train. I shall be glad to get
a winter view of Plymouth Harbor, and see where your garden lies under
the snow."

The second letter follows:--


TO MARSTON WATSON (AT PLYMOUTH).

     CONCORD, December 31, 1852.

MR. WATSON,--I would be glad to visit Plymouth again, but at present I
have nothing to read which is not severely heathenish, or at least
secular,--which the dictionary defines as "relating to affairs of the
present world, not holy,"--though not necessarily unholy; nor have I
any leisure to prepare it. My writing at present is profane, yet in a
good sense, and, as it were, sacredly, I may say; for, finding the air
of the temple too close, I sat outside. Don't think I say this to get
off; no, no! It will not do to read such things to hungry ears. "If
they ask for bread, will you give them a stone?" When I have something
of the right kind, depend upon it I will let you know.

       *       *       *       *       *

Up to 1848, when he was invited to lecture before the Salem Lyceum by
Nathaniel Hawthorne, then its secretary, Thoreau seems to have spoken
publicly very little except in Concord; nor did he extend the circuit
of his lectures much until his two books had made him known as a
thinker. There was little to attract a popular audience in his manner
or his matter; but it was the era of lectures, and if one could once
gain admission to the circle of "lyceum lecturers," it did not so much
matter what he said; a lecture was a lecture, as a sermon was a
sermon, good, bad, or indifferent. But it was common to exclude the
antislavery speakers from the lyceums, even those of more eloquence
than Thoreau; this led to invitations from the small band of reformers
scattered about New England and New York, so that the most unlikely of
platform speakers (Ellery Channing, for example) sometimes gave
lectures at Plymouth, Greenfield, Newburyport, or elsewhere. The
present fashion of parlor lectures had not come in; yet at Worcester
Thoreau's friends early organized for him something of that kind, as
his letters to Mr. Blake show. In default of an audience of numbers,
Thoreau fell into the habit of lecturing in his letters to this
friend; the most marked instance being the thoughtful essay on Love
and Chastity which makes the bulk of his epistle dated September,
1852. Like most of his serious writing, this was made up from his
daily journal, and hardly comes under the head of "familiar letters;"
the didactic purpose is rather too apparent. Yet it cannot be spared
from any collection of his epistles,--none of which flowed more
directly from the quickened moral nature of the man.


TO SOPHIA THOREAU (AT BANGOR).

     CONCORD, July 13, 1852.

DEAR SOPHIA,--I am a miserable letter-writer, but perhaps if I should
say this at length and with sufficient emphasis and regret it would
make a letter. I am sorry that nothing transpires here of much moment;
or, I should rather say, that I am so slackened and rusty, like the
telegraph wire this season, that no wind that blows can extract music
from me.

I am not on the trail of any elephants or mastodons, but have
succeeded in trapping only a few ridiculous mice, which cannot feed my
imagination. I have become sadly scientific. I would rather come upon
the vast valley-like "spoor" only of some celestial beast which this
world's woods can no longer sustain, than spring my net over a bushel
of moles. You must do better in those woods where you are. You must
have some adventures to relate and repeat for years to come, which
will eclipse even mother's voyage to Goldsborough and Sissiboo.

They say that Mr. Pierce, the presidential candidate, was in town last
5th of July, visiting Hawthorne, whose college chum he was; and that
Hawthorne is writing a life of him, for electioneering purposes.

Concord is just as idiotic as ever in relation to the spirits and
their knockings. Most people here believe in a spiritual world which
no respectable junk bottle, which had not met with a slip, would
condescend to contain even a portion of for a moment,--whose
atmosphere would extinguish a candle let down into it, like a well
that wants airing; in spirits which the very bullfrogs in our meadows
would blackball. Their evil genius is seeing how low it can degrade
them. The hooting of owls, the croaking of frogs, is celestial wisdom
in comparison. If I could be brought to believe in the things which
they believe, I should make haste to get rid of my certificate of
stock in this and the next world's enterprises, and buy a share in the
first Immediate Annihilation Company that offered. I would exchange my
immortality for a glass of small beer this hot weather. Where _are_
the heathen? Was there ever any superstition before? And yet I suppose
there may be a vessel this very moment setting sail from the coast of
North America to that of Africa with a missionary on board! Consider
the dawn and the sunrise,--the rainbow and the evening,--the words of
Christ and the aspiration of all the saints! Hear music! see, smell,
taste, feel, hear,--anything,--and then hear these idiots, inspired by
the cracking of a restless board, humbly asking, "Please, Spirit, if
you cannot answer by knocks, answer by tips of the table." ! ! ! ! ! !
!


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, July 21, 1852.

MR. BLAKE,--I am too stupidly well these days to write to you. My life
is almost altogether outward,--all shell and no tender kernel; so that
I fear the report of it would be only a nut for you to crack, with no
meat in it for you to eat. Moreover, you have not cornered me up, and
I enjoy such large liberty in writing to you, that I feel as vague as
the air. However, I rejoice to hear that you have attended so
patiently to anything which I have said heretofore, and have detected
any truth in it. It encourages me to say more,--not in this letter, I
fear, but in some book which I may write one day. I am glad to know
that I am as much to any mortal as a persistent and consistent
scarecrow is to a farmer,--such a bundle of straw in a man's clothing
as I am, with a few bits of tin to sparkle in the sun dangling about
me, as if I were hard at work there in the field. However, if this
kind of life saves any man's corn,--why, he is the gainer. I am not
afraid that you will flatter me as long as you know what I am, as well
as what I think, or aim to be, and distinguish between these two, for
then it will commonly happen that if you praise the last you will
condemn the first.

I remember that walk to Asnebumskit very well,--a fit place to go to
on a Sunday; one of the true temples of the earth. A temple, you know,
was anciently "an open place without a roof," whose walls served
merely to shut out the world and direct the mind toward heaven; but a
modern _meeting-house_ shuts out the heavens, while it crowds the
world into still closer quarters. Best of all is it when, as on a
mountain-top, you have for all walls your own elevation and deeps of
surrounding ether. The partridge-berries, watered with mountain dews
which are gathered there, are more memorable to me than the words
which I last heard from the pulpit at least; and for my part, I would
rather look toward Rutland than Jerusalem. Rutland,--modern
town,--land of ruts,--trivial and worn,--not too sacred,--with no
holy sepulchre, but profane green fields and dusty roads, and
opportunity to live as holy a life as you can,--where the sacredness,
if there is any, is all in yourself and not in the place.

I fear that your Worcester people do not often enough go to the
hilltops, though, as I am told, the springs lie nearer to the surface
on your hills than in your valleys. They have the reputation of being
Free-Soilers.[44] Do they insist on a free atmosphere, too, that is,
on freedom for the head or brain as well as the feet? If I were
consciously to join any party, it would be that which is the most free
to entertain thought.

All the world complain nowadays of a press of trivial duties and
engagements, which prevents their employing themselves on some higher
ground they know of; but, undoubtedly, if they were made of the right
stuff to work on that higher ground, provided they were released from
all those engagements, they would now at once fulfill the superior
engagement, and neglect all the rest, as naturally as they breathe.
They would never be caught saying that they had no time for this, when
the dullest man knows that this is all that he has time for. No man
who acts from a sense of duty ever puts the lesser duty above the
greater. No man has the desire and the ability to work on high things,
but he has also the ability to build himself a high staging.

As for passing _through_ any great and glorious experience, and rising
_above_ it, as an eagle might fly athwart the evening sky to rise into
still brighter and fairer regions of the heavens, I cannot say that I
ever sailed so creditably; but my bark ever seemed thwarted by some
side wind, and went off over the edge, and now only occasionally tacks
back toward the centre of that sea again. I have outgrown nothing
good, but, I do not fear to say, fallen behind by whole continents of
virtue, which should have been passed as islands in my course; but I
trust--what else can I trust? that, with a stiff wind, some Friday,
when I have thrown some of my cargo overboard, I may make up for all
that distance lost.

Perchance the time will come when we shall not be content to go back
and forth upon a raft to some huge Homeric or Shakespearean Indiaman
that lies upon the reef, but build a bark out of that wreck and others
that are buried in the sands of this desolate island, and such new
timber as may be required, in which to sail away to whole new worlds
of light and life, where our friends are.

Write again. There is one respect in which you did not finish your
letter: you did not write it with ink, and it is not so good,
therefore, against or for you in the eye of the law, nor in the eye of

     H. D. T.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     September, 1852.

MR. BLAKE,--Here come the sentences which I promised you. You may keep
them, if you will regard and use them as the disconnected fragments of
what I may find to be a completer essay, on looking over my journal,
at last, and may claim again.

I send you the thoughts on Chastity and Sensuality with diffidence
and shame, not knowing how far I speak to the condition of men
generally, or how far I betray my peculiar defects. Pray enlighten me
on this point if you can.

LOVE.

What the essential difference between man and woman is, that they
should be thus attracted to one another, no one has satisfactorily
answered. Perhaps we must acknowledge the justness of the distinction
which assigns to man the sphere of wisdom, and to woman that of love,
though neither belongs exclusively to either. Man is continually
saying to woman, Why will you not be more wise? Woman is continually
saying to man, Why will you not be more loving? It is not in their
wills to be wise or to be loving; but, unless each is both wise and
loving, there can be neither wisdom nor love.

All transcendent goodness is one, though appreciated in different
ways, or by different senses. In beauty we see it, in music we hear
it, in fragrance we scent it, in the palatable the pure palate tastes
it, and in rare health the whole body feels it. The variety is in the
surface or manifestation; but the radical identity we fail to express.
The lover sees in the glance of his beloved the same beauty that in
the sunset paints the western skies. It is the same daimon, here
lurking under a human eyelid, and there under the closing eyelids of
the day. Here, in small compass, is the ancient and natural beauty of
evening and morning. What loving astronomer has ever fathomed the
ethereal depths of the eye?

The maiden conceals a fairer flower and sweeter fruit than any calyx
in the field; and, if she goes with averted face, confiding in her
purity and high resolves, she will make the heavens retrospective, and
all nature humbly confess its queen.

Under the influence of this sentiment, man is a string of an æolian
harp, which vibrates with the zephyrs of the eternal morning.

There is at first thought something trivial in the commonness of love.
So many Indian youths and maidens along these banks have in ages past
yielded to the influence of this great civilizer. Nevertheless, this
generation is not disgusted nor discouraged, for love is no
individual's experience; and though we are imperfect mediums, it does
not partake of our imperfection; though we are finite, it is infinite
and eternal; and the same divine influence broods over these banks,
whatever race may inhabit them, and perchance still would, even if the
human race did not dwell here.

Perhaps an instinct survives through the intensest actual love, which
prevents entire abandonment and devotion, and makes the most ardent
lover a little reserved. It is the anticipation of change. For the
most ardent lover is not the less practically wise, and seeks a love
which will last forever.

Considering how few poetical friendships there are, it is remarkable
that so many are married. It would seem as if men yielded too easy an
obedience to nature without consulting their genius. One may be drunk
with love without being any nearer to finding his mate. There is more
of good nature than of good sense at the bottom of most marriages.
But the good nature must have the counsel of the good spirit or
Intelligence. If common sense had been consulted, how many marriages
would never have taken place; if uncommon or divine sense, how few
marriages such as we witness would ever have taken place!

Our love may be ascending or descending. What is its character, if it
may be said of it,--

     "We must _respect_ the souls above,
     But only _those below we love_."

Love is a severe critic. Hate can pardon more than love. They who
aspire to love worthily, subject themselves to an ordeal more rigid
than any other.

Is your friend such a one that an increase of worth on your part will
surely make her more your friend? Is she retained--is she attracted by
more nobleness in you,--by more of that virtue which is peculiarly
yours; or is she indifferent and blind to that? Is she to be flattered
and won by your meeting her on any other than the ascending path? Then
duty requires that you separate from her.

Love must be as much a light as a flame.

Where there is not discernment, the behavior even of the purest soul
may in effect amount to coarseness.

A man of fine perceptions is more truly feminine than a merely
sentimental woman. The heart is blind; but love is not blind. None of
the gods is so discriminating.

In love and friendship the imagination is as much exercised as the
heart; and if either is outraged the other will be estranged. It is
commonly the imagination which is wounded first, rather than the
heart,--it is so much the more sensitive.

_Comparatively_, we can excuse any offense against the heart, but not
against the imagination. The imagination knows--nothing escapes its
glance from out its eyry--and it controls the breast. My heart may
still yearn toward the valley, but my imagination will not permit me
to jump off the precipice that debars me from it, for it is wounded,
its wings are clipt, and it cannot fly, even descendingly. Our
"blundering hearts!" some poet says. The imagination never forgets; it
is a re-membering. It is not foundationless, but most reasonable, and
it alone uses all the knowledge of the intellect.

Love is the profoundest of secrets. Divulged, even to the beloved, it
is no longer Love. As if it were merely I that loved you. When love
ceases, then it is divulged.

In our intercourse with one we love, we wish to have answered those
questions at the end of which we do not raise our voice; against which
we put no interrogation-mark,--answered with the same unfailing,
universal aim toward every point of the compass.

I require that thou knowest everything without being told anything. I
parted from my beloved because there was one thing which I had to tell
her. She _questioned_ me. She should have known all by sympathy. That
I had to tell it her was the difference between us,--the
misunderstanding.

A lover never hears anything that he is _told_, for that is commonly
either false or stale; but he hears things taking place, as the
sentinels heard Trenck[45] mining in the ground, and thought it was
moles.

The relation may be profaned in many ways. The parties may not regard
it with equal sacredness. What if the lover should learn that his
beloved dealt in incantations and philters! What if he should hear
that she consulted a clairvoyant! The spell would be instantly broken.

If to chaffer and higgle are bad in trade, they are much worse in
Love. It demands directness as of an arrow.

There is danger that we lose sight of what our friend is absolutely,
while considering what she is to us alone.

The lover wants no partiality. He says, Be so kind as to be just.

     Canst thou love with thy mind,
       And reason with thy heart?
     Canst thou be kind,
       And from thy darling part?

     Canst thou range earth, sea, and air,
     And so meet me everywhere?
     Through all events I will pursue thee,
     Through all persons I will woo thee.

I need thy hate as much as thy love. Thou wilt not repel me entirely
when thou repellest what is evil in me.

     Indeed, indeed, I cannot tell,
     Though I ponder on it well,
     Which were easier to state,
     All my love or all my hate.
     Surely, surely, thou wilt trust me
     When I say thou doth disgust me.

     O, I hate thee with a hate
     That would fain annihilate;
     Yet, sometimes, against my will,
     My dear Friend, I love thee still.
     It were treason to our love,
     And a sin to God above,
     One iota to abate
     Of a pure, impartial hate.

It is not enough that we are truthful; we must cherish and carry out
high purposes to be truthful about.

It must be rare, indeed, that we meet with one to whom we are prepared
to be quite ideally related, as she to us. We should have no reserve;
we should give the whole of ourselves to that society; we should have
no duty aside from that. One who could bear to be so wonderfully and
beautifully exaggerated every day. I would take my friend out of her
low self and set her higher, infinitely higher, and _there_ know her.
But, commonly, men are as much afraid of love as of hate. They have
lower engagements. They have near ends to serve. They have not
imagination enough to be thus employed about a human being, but must
be coopering a barrel, forsooth.

What a difference, whether, in all your walks, you meet only
strangers, or in one house is one who knows you, and whom you know. To
have a brother or a sister! To have a gold mine on your farm! To find
diamonds in the gravel heaps before your door! How rare these things
are! To share the day with you,--to people the earth. Whether to have
a god or a goddess for companion in your walks, or to walk alone with
hinds and villains and carles. Would not a friend enhance the beauty
of the landscape as much as a deer or hare? Everything would
acknowledge and serve such a relation; the corn in the field, and the
cranberries in the meadow. The flowers would bloom, and the birds
sing, with a new impulse. There would be more fair days in the year.

The object of love expands and grows before us to eternity, until it
includes all that is lovely, and we become all that can love.


CHASTITY AND SENSUALITY.

The subject of sex is a remarkable one, since, though its phenomena
concern us so much, both directly and indirectly, and, sooner or
later, it occupies the thoughts of all, yet all mankind, as it were,
agree to be silent about it, at least the sexes commonly one to
another. One of the most interesting of all human facts is veiled more
completely than any mystery. It is treated with such secrecy and awe
as surely do not go to any religion. I believe that it is unusual even
for the most intimate friends to communicate the pleasures and
anxieties connected with this fact,--much as the external affair of
love, its comings and goings, are bruited. The Shakers do not
exaggerate it so much by their manner of speaking of it as all mankind
by their manner of keeping silence about it. Not that men should speak
on this or any subject without having anything worthy to say; but it
is plain that the education of man has hardly commenced,--there is so
little genuine intercommunication.

In a pure society, the subject of marriage would not be so often
avoided,--from shame and not from reverence, winked out of sight, and
hinted at only; but treated naturally and simply,--perhaps simply
avoided, like the kindred mysteries. If it cannot be spoken of for
shame, how can it be acted of? But, doubtless, there is far more
purity, as well as more impurity, than is apparent.

Men commonly couple with their idea of marriage a slight degree at
least of sensuality; but every lover, the world over, believes in its
inconceivable purity.

If it is the result of a pure love, there can be nothing sensual in
marriage. Chastity is something positive, not negative. It is the
virtue of the married especially. All lusts or base pleasures must
give place to loftier delights. They who meet as superior beings
cannot perform the deeds of inferior ones. The deeds of love are less
questionable than any action of an individual can be, for, it being
founded on the rarest mutual respect, the parties incessantly
stimulate each other to a loftier and purer life, and the act in which
they are associated must be pure and noble indeed, for innocence and
purity can have no equal. In this relation we deal with one whom we
respect more religiously even than we respect our better selves, and
we shall necessarily conduct as in the presence of God. What presence
can be more awful to the lover than the presence of his beloved?

If you seek the warmth even of affection from a similar motive to that
from which cats and dogs and slothful persons hug the fire,--because
your temperature is low through sloth,--you are on the downward road,
and it is but to plunge yet deeper into sloth. Better the cold
affection of the sun, reflected from fields of ice and snow, or his
warmth in some still, wintry dell. The warmth of celestial love does
not relax, but nerves and braces its enjoyer. Warm your body by
healthful exercise, not by cowering over a stove. Warm your spirit by
performing independently noble deeds, not by ignobly seeking the
sympathy of your fellows who are no better than yourself. A man's
social and spiritual discipline must answer to his corporeal. He must
lean on a friend who has a hard breast, as he would lie on a hard bed.
He must drink cold water for his only beverage. So he must not hear
sweetened and colored words, but pure and refreshing truths. He must
daily bathe in truth cold as spring water, not warmed by the sympathy
of friends.

Can love be in aught allied to dissipation? Let us love by refusing,
not accepting one another. Love and lust are far asunder. The one is
good, the other bad. When the affectionate sympathize by their higher
natures, there is love; but there is danger that they will sympathize
by their lower natures, and then there is lust. It is not necessary
that this be deliberate, hardly even conscious; but, in the close
contact of affection, there is danger that we may stain and pollute
one another; for we cannot embrace but with an entire embrace.

We must love our friend so much that she shall be associated with our
purest and holiest thoughts alone. When there is impurity, we have
"descended to meet," though we knew it not.

The _luxury_ of affection,--there's the danger. There must be some
nerve and heroism in our love, as of a winter morning. In the religion
of all nations a purity is hinted at, which, I fear, men never attain
to. We may love and not elevate one another. The love that takes us as
it finds us degrades us. What watch we must keep over the fairest and
purest of our affections, lest there be some taint about them! May we
so love as never to have occasion to repent of our love!

There is to be attributed to sensuality the loss to language of how
many pregnant symbols! Flowers, which, by their infinite hues and
fragrance, celebrate the marriage of the plants, are intended for a
symbol of the open and unsuspected beauty of all true marriage, when
man's flowering season arrives.

Virginity, too, is a budding flower, and by an impure marriage the
virgin is deflowered. Whoever loves flowers, loves virgins and
chastity. Love and lust are as far asunder as a flower-garden is from
a brothel.

J. Biberg, in the "Amoenitates Botanicae," edited by Linnæus, observes
(I translate from the Latin): "The organs of generation, which, in the
animal kingdom, are for the most part concealed by nature, as if they
were to be ashamed of, in the vegetable kingdom are exposed to the
eyes of all; and, when the nuptials of plants are celebrated, it is
wonderful what delight they afford to the beholder, refreshing the
senses with the most agreeable color and the sweetest odor; and, at
the same time, bees and other insects, not to mention the hummingbird,
extract honey from their nectaries, and gather wax from their effete
pollen." Linnæus himself calls the calyx the _thalamus_, or bridal
chamber; and the corolla the _aulaeum_, or tapestry of it, and
proceeds to explain thus every part of the flower.

Who knows but evil spirits might corrupt the flowers themselves, rob
them of their fragrance and their fair hues, and turn their marriage
into a secret shame and defilement? Already they are of various
qualities, and there is one whose nuptials fill the lowlands in June
with the odor of carrion.

The intercourse of the sexes, I have dreamed, is incredibly beautiful,
too fair to be remembered. I have had thoughts about it, but they are
among the most fleeting and irrecoverable in my experience. It is
strange that men will talk of miracles, revelation, inspiration, and
the like, as things past, while love remains.

A true marriage will differ in no wise from illumination. In all
perception of the truth there is a divine ecstasy, an inexpressible
delirium of joy, as when a youth embraces his betrothed virgin. The
ultimate delights of a true marriage are one with this.

No wonder that, out of such a union, not as end, but as accompaniment,
comes the undying race of man. The womb is a most fertile soil.

Some have asked if the stock of men could not be improved,--if they
could not be bred as cattle. Let Love be purified, and all the rest
will follow. A pure love is thus, indeed, the panacea for all the ills
of the world.

The only excuse for reproduction is improvement. Nature abhors
repetition. Beasts merely propagate their kind; but the offspring of
noble men and women will be superior to themselves, as their
aspirations are. By their fruits ye shall know them.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, February 27, 1853.

MR. BLAKE,--I have not answered your letter before, because I have
been almost constantly in the fields surveying of late. It is long
since I have spent many days so profitably in a pecuniary sense; so
unprofitably, it seems to me, in a more important sense. I have earned
just a dollar a day for seventy-six days past; for, though I charge at
a higher rate for the days which are seen to be spent, yet so many
more are spent than appears. This is instead of lecturing, which has
not offered, to pay for that book which I printed.[46] I have not only
cheap hours, but cheap weeks and months; that is, weeks which are
bought at the rate I have named. Not that they are quite lost to me,
or make me very melancholy, alas! for I too often take a cheap
satisfaction in so spending them,--weeks of pasturing and browsing,
like beeves and deer,--which give me animal health, it may be, but
create a tough skin over the soul and intellectual part. Yet, if men
should offer my body a maintenance for the work of my head alone, I
feel that it would be a dangerous temptation.

As to whether what you speak of as the "world's way" (which for the
most part is my way), or that which is shown me, is the better, the
former is imposture, the latter is truth. I have the coldest
confidence in the last. There is only such hesitation as the
appetites feel in following the aspirations. The clod hesitates
because it is inert, wants _animation_. The one is the way of death,
the other of life everlasting. My hours are not "cheap in such a way
that _I_ doubt whether the world's way would not have been better,"
but cheap in such a way that I doubt whether the world's way, which I
have adopted for the time, could be worse. The whole enterprise of
this nation, which is not an upward, but a westward one, toward
Oregon, California, Japan, etc., is totally devoid of interest to me,
whether performed on foot, or by a Pacific railroad. It is not
illustrated by a thought; it is not warmed by a sentiment; there is
nothing in it which one should lay down his life for, nor even his
gloves,--hardly which one should take up a newspaper for. It is
perfectly heathenish,--a filibustering _toward_ heaven by the great
western route. No; they may go their way to their manifest destiny,
which I trust is not mine. May my seventy-six dollars, whenever I get
them, help to carry me in the other direction! I see them on their
winding way, but no music is wafted from their host,--only the
rattling of change in their pockets. I would rather be a captive
knight, and let them all pass by, than be free only to go whither they
are bound. What end do they propose to themselves beyond Japan? What
aims more lofty have they than the prairie dogs?

As it respects these things, I have not changed an opinion one iota
from the first. As the stars looked to me when I was a shepherd in
Assyria, they look to me now, a New-Englander. The higher the
mountain on which you stand, the less change in the prospect from
year to year, from age to age. Above a certain height there is no
change. I am a Switzer on the edge of the glacier, with his advantages
and disadvantages, goitre, or what not. (You may suspect it to be some
kind of swelling at any rate.) I have had but one _spiritual_ birth
(excuse the word), and now whether it rains or snows, whether I laugh
or cry, fall farther below or approach nearer to my standard; whether
Pierce or Scott is elected,--not a new scintillation of light flashes
on me, but ever and anon, though with longer intervals, the same
surprising and everlastingly new light dawns to me, with only such
variations as in the coming of the natural day, with which, indeed, it
is often coincident.

As to how to preserve potatoes from rotting, your opinion may change
from year to year; but as to how to preserve your soul from rotting, I
have nothing to learn, but something to practice.

Thus I declaim against them; but I in my folly am the world I condemn.

I very rarely, indeed, if ever, "feel any itching to be what is called
useful to my fellow-men." Sometimes--it may be when my thoughts for
want of employment fall into a beaten path or humdrum--I have dreamed
idly of stopping a man's horse that was running away; but, perchance,
I wished that he might run, in order that I might stop him;--or of
putting out a fire; but then, of course, it must have got well
a-going. Now, to tell the truth, I do not dream much of acting upon
horses before they run, or of preventing fires which are not yet
kindled. What a foul subject is this of doing good! instead of
minding one's life, which should be his business; doing good as a dead
carcass, which is only fit for manure, instead of as a living
man,--instead of taking care to flourish, and smell and taste sweet,
and refresh all mankind to the extent of our capacity and quality.
People will sometimes try to persuade you that you have done something
from that motive, as if you did not already know enough about it. If I
ever _did_ a man any good, in their sense, of course it was something
exceptional and insignificant compared with the good or evil which I
am constantly doing by being what I am. As if you were to preach to
ice to shape itself into burning-glasses, which are sometimes useful,
and so the peculiar properties of ice be lost. Ice that merely
performs the office of a burning-glass does not do its duty.

The problem of life becomes, one cannot say by how many degrees, more
complicated as our material wealth is increased,--whether that needle
they tell of was a gateway or not,--since the problem is not merely
nor mainly to get life for our bodies, but by this or a similar
discipline to get life for our souls; by cultivating the lowland farm
on right principles, that is, with this view, to turn it into an
upland farm. You have so many more talents to account for. If I
accomplish as much more in spiritual work as I am richer in worldly
goods, then I am just as worthy, or worth just as much, as I was
before, and no more. I see that, in my own case, money _might_ be of
great service to me, but probably it would not be; for the difficulty
now is, that I do not improve my opportunities, and therefore I am
not prepared to have my opportunities increased. Now, I warn you, if
it be as you say, you have got to put on the pack of an upland farmer
in good earnest the coming spring, the lowland farm being cared for;
ay, you must be selecting your seeds forthwith, and doing what winter
work you can; and, while others are raising potatoes and Baldwin
apples for you, you must be raising apples of the Hesperides for them.
(Only hear how he preaches!) No man can suspect that he is the
proprietor of an upland farm,--upland in the sense that it will
produce nobler crops, and better repay cultivation in the long
run,--but he will be perfectly sure that he ought to cultivate it.

Though we are desirous to earn our bread, we need not be anxious to
_satisfy_ men for it,--though we shall take care to pay them,--but
God, who alone gave it to us. Men may in effect put us in the debtors'
jail for that matter, simply for paying our whole debt to God, which
includes our debt to them, and though we have His receipt for it,--for
His paper is dishonored. The cashier will tell you that He has no
stock in his bank.

How prompt we are to satisfy the hunger and thirst of our bodies; how
slow to satisfy the hunger and thirst of our _souls_! Indeed, we
would-be practical folks cannot use this word without blushing because
of our infidelity, having starved this substance almost to a shadow.
We feel it to be as absurd as if a man were to break forth into a
eulogy on _his dog_, who has n't any. An ordinary man will work every
day for a year at shoveling dirt to support his body, or a family of
bodies; but he is an extraordinary man who will work a whole day in a
year for the support of his soul. Even the priests, the men of God, so
called, for the most part confess that they work for the support of
the body. But he alone is the truly enterprising and practical man who
succeeds in _maintaining_ his soul here. Have not we our everlasting
life to get? and is not that the only excuse at last for eating,
drinking, sleeping, or even carrying an umbrella when it rains? A man
might as well devote himself to raising pork as to fattening the
bodies, or temporal part merely, of the whole human family. If we made
the true distinction we should almost all of us be seen to be in the
almshouse for souls.

I am much indebted to you because you look so steadily at the better
side, or rather the true centre of me (for our true centre may, and
perhaps oftenest does, lie entirely aside from us, and we are in fact
eccentric), and, as I have elsewhere said, "give me an opportunity to
live." You speak as if the image or idea which I see were reflected
from me to you; and I see it again reflected from you to me, because
we stand at the right angle to one another; and so it goes zigzag to
what successive reflecting surfaces, before it is all dissipated or
absorbed by the more unreflecting, or differently reflecting,--who
knows? Or, perhaps, what you see directly, you refer to me. What a
little shelf is required, by which we may impinge upon another, and
build there our eyry in the clouds, and all the heavens we see above
us we refer to the crags around and beneath us. Some piece of mica, as
it were, in the face or eyes of one, as on the Delectable Mountains,
slanted at the right angle, reflects the heavens to us. But, in the
slow geological upheavals and depressions, these mutual angles are
disturbed, these suns set, and new ones rise to us. That ideal which I
worshiped was a greater stranger to the mica than to me. It was not
the hero I admired, but the reflection from his epaulet or helmet. It
is nothing (for us) permanently inherent in another, but his attitude
or relation to what we prize, that we admire. The meanest man may
glitter with micacious particles to his fellow's eye. These are the
spangles that adorn a man. The highest union,--the only _un_-ion
(don't laugh), or central oneness, is the coincidence of visual rays.
Our club-room was an apartment in a constellation where our visual
rays met (and there was no debate about the restaurant). The way
between us is over the mount.

Your words make me think of a man of my acquaintance whom I
occasionally meet, whom you, too, appear to have met, one Myself, as
he is called. Yet, why not call him _Your_self? If you have met with
him and know him, it is all I have done; and surely, where there is a
mutual acquaintance, the _my_ and _thy_ make a distinction without a
difference.

I do not wonder that you do not like my Canada story. It concerns me
but little, and probably is not worth the time it took to tell it. Yet
I had absolutely no design whatever in my mind, but simply to report
what I saw. I have inserted all of myself that was implicated, or made
the excursion. It has come to an end, at any rate; they will print no
more, but return me my MS. when it is but little more than half done,
as well as another I had sent them, because the editor[47] requires
the liberty to omit the heresies without consulting me,--a privilege
California is not rich enough to bid for.

I thank you again and again for attending to me; that is to say, I am
glad that you hear me and that you also are glad. Hold fast to your
most indefinite, waking dream. The very green dust on the walls is an
organized vegetable; the atmosphere has its fauna and flora floating
in it; and shall we think that dreams are but dust and ashes, are
always disintegrated and crumbling thoughts, and not dust-like
thoughts trooping to their standard with music,--systems beginning to
be organized? These expectations,--these are roots, these are nuts,
which even the poorest man has in his bin, and roasts or cracks them
occasionally in winter evenings,--which even the poor debtor retains
with his bed and his pig, i. e., his idleness and sensuality. Men go
to the opera because they hear there a faint expression in sound of
this news which is never quite distinctly proclaimed. Suppose a man
were to sell the hue, the least amount of coloring matter in the
superficies of his thought, for a farm,--were to exchange an absolute
and infinite value for a relative and finite one,--to gain the whole
world and lose his own soul!

Do not wait as long as I have before you write. If you will look at
another star, I will try to supply my side of the triangle.

Tell Mr. Brown that I remember him, and trust that he remembers me.

P. S.--Excuse this rather flippant preaching, which does not cost me
enough; and do not think that I mean you _always_, though your letter
_requested_ the subjects.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, April 10, 1853.

MR. BLAKE,--Another singular kind of spiritual football,--really
nameless, handleless, homeless, like myself,--a mere arena for
thoughts and feelings; definite enough outwardly, indefinite more than
enough inwardly. But I do not know why we should be styled "misters"
or "masters:" we come so near to being anything or nothing, and seeing
that we are mastered, and not wholly sorry to be mastered, by the
least phenomenon. It seems to me that we are the mere creatures of
thought,--one of the lowest forms of intellectual life, we men,--as
the sunfish is of animal life. As yet our thoughts have acquired no
definiteness nor solidity; they are purely molluscous, not vertebrate;
and the height of our existence is to float upward in an ocean where
the sun shines,--appearing only like a vast soup or chowder to the
eyes of the immortal navigators. It is wonderful that I can be here,
and you there, and that we can correspond, and do many other things,
when, in fact, there is so little of us, either or both, anywhere. In
a few minutes, I expect, this slight film or dash of vapor that I am
will be what is called asleep,--resting! forsooth from what? Hard
work? and thought? The hard work of the dandelion down, which floats
over the meadow all day; the hard work of a pismire that labors to
raise a hillock all day, and even by moonlight. Suddenly I can come
forward into the utmost apparent distinctness, and speak with a sort
of emphasis to you; and the next moment I am so faint an entity, and
make so slight an impression, that nobody can find the traces of me. I
try to hunt myself up, and find the little of me that is discoverable
is falling asleep, and then I assist and tuck it up. It is getting
late. How can _I_ starve or feed? Can _I_ be said to sleep? There is
not enough of me even for that. If you hear a noise,--'t ain't I,--'t
ain't I,--as the dog says with a tin kettle tied to his tail. I read
of something happening to another the other day: how happens it that
nothing ever happens to me? A dandelion down that never
alights,--settles,--blown off by a boy to see if his mother wanted
him,--some divine boy in the upper pastures.

Well, if there really is another such a meteor sojourning in these
spaces, I would like to ask you if you know whose estate this is that
we are on? For my part I enjoy it well enough, what with the wild
apples and the scenery; but I should n't wonder if the owner set his
dog on me next. I could remember something not much to the purpose,
probably; but if I stick to what I do know, then--

It is worth the while to live respectably unto ourselves. We can
possibly _get along_ with a neighbor, even with a bedfellow, whom we
respect but very little; but as soon as it comes to this, that we do
not respect ourselves, then we do not get along at all, no matter how
much money we are paid for halting. There are old heads in the world
who cannot help me by their example or advice to live worthily and
satisfactorily to myself; but I believe that it is in my power to
elevate myself this very hour above the common level of my life. It is
better to have your head in the clouds, and know where you are, if
indeed you cannot get it above them, than to breathe the clearer
atmosphere below them, and think that you are in paradise.

Once you were in Milton[48] doubting what to do. To live a better
life,--this surely can be done. Dot and carry one. Wait not for a
clear sight, for that you are to get. What you see clearly you may
omit to do. Milton and Worcester? It is all Blake, Blake. Never mind
the rats in the wall; the cat will take care of them. All that men
have said or are is a very faint rumor, and it is not worth the while
to remember or refer to that. If you are to meet God, will you refer
to anybody out of that court? How shall men know how I succeed, unless
they are in at the life? I did not see the _Times_ reporter there.

Is it not delightful to provide one's self with the necessaries of
life,--to collect dry wood for the fire when the weather grows cool,
or fruits when we grow hungry?--not till then. And then we have all
the time left for thought!

Of what use were it, pray, to get a little wood to burn, to warm your
body this cold weather, if there were not a divine fire kindled at the
same time to warm your spirit?

         "Unless above himself he can
     Erect himself, how poor a thing is man!"

I cuddle up by my stove, and there I get up another fire which warms
fire itself. Life is so short that it is not wise to take roundabout
ways, nor can we spend much time in waiting. Is it absolutely
necessary, then, that we should do as we are doing? Are we chiefly
under obligations to the devil, like Tom Walker? Though it is late to
leave off this wrong way, it will seem early the moment we begin in
the right way; instead of mid-afternoon, it will be early morning with
us. We have not got half-way to dawn yet.

As for the lectures, I feel that I have something to say, especially
on Traveling, Vagueness, and Poverty; but I cannot come now. I will
wait till I am fuller, and have fewer engagements. Your suggestions
will help me much to write them when I am ready. I am going to
Haverhill[49] to-morrow, surveying, for a week or more. You met me on
my last errand thither.

I trust that you realize what an exaggerator I am,--that I lay myself
out to exaggerate whenever I have an opportunity,--pile Pelion upon
Ossa, to reach heaven so. Expect no trivial truth from me, unless I am
on the witness-stand. I will come as near to lying as you can drive a
coach and four. If it is n't thus and so with me, it is with
something. I am not particular whether I get the shells or meat, in
view of the latter's worth.

I see that I have not at all answered your letter, but there is time
enough for that.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, December 19, 1853.

MR. BLAKE,--My debt has accumulated so that I should have answered
your last letter at once, if I had not been the subject of what is
called a press of engagements, having a lecture to write for last
Wednesday, and surveying more than usual besides. It has been a kind
of running fight with me,--the enemy not always behind me I trust.

True, a man cannot lift himself by his own waistbands, because he
cannot get out of himself; but he can expand himself (which is better,
there being no up nor down in nature), and so split his waistbands,
being already within himself.

You speak of doing and being, and the vanity, real or apparent, of
much doing. The suckers--I think it is they--make nests in our river
in the spring of more than a cart-load of small stones, amid which to
deposit their ova. The other day I opened a muskrat's house. It was
made of weeds, five feet broad at base, and three feet high, and far
and low within it was a little cavity, only a foot in diameter, where
the rat dwelt. It may seem trivial, this piling up of weeds, but so
the race of muskrats is preserved. We must heap up a great pile of
doing, for a small diameter of being. Is it not imperative on us that
we _do_ something, if we only work in a treadmill? And, indeed, some
sort of revolving is necessary to produce a centre and nucleus of
being. What exercise is to the body, employment is to the mind and
morals. Consider what an amount of drudgery must be performed,--how
much humdrum and prosaic labor goes to any work of the least value.
There are so many layers of mere white lime in every shell to that
thin inner one so beautifully tinted. Let not the shellfish think to
build his house of that alone; and pray, what are its tints to him? Is
it not his smooth, close-fitting shirt merely, whose tints _are not_
to him, being in the dark, but only when he is gone or dead, and his
shell is heaved up to light, a wreck upon the beach, do they appear.
With him, too, it is a Song of the Shirt, "Work,--work,--work!" And
the work is not merely a police in the gross sense, but in the higher
sense a discipline. If it is surely the means to the highest end we
know, can any work be humble or disgusting? Will it not rather be
elevating as a ladder, the means by which we are translated?

How admirably the artist is made to accomplish his self-culture by
devotion to his art! The wood-sawyer, through his effort to do his
work well, becomes not merely a better wood-sawyer, but measurably a
better _man_. Few are the men that can work on their navels,--only
some Brahmins that I have heard of. To the painter is given some paint
and canvas instead; to the Irishman a hog, typical of himself. In a
thousand apparently humble ways men busy themselves to make some right
take the place of some wrong,--if it is only to make a better paste
blacking,--and they are themselves _so much_ the better morally for
it.

You say that you do not succeed much. Does it concern you enough that
you do not? Do you work hard enough at it? Do you get the benefit of
discipline out of it? If so, persevere. Is it a more serious thing
than to walk a thousand miles in a thousand successive hours? Do you
get any corns by it? Do you ever think of hanging yourself on account
of failure?

If you are going into that line,--going to besiege the city of
God,--you must not only be strong in engines, but prepared with
provisions to starve out the garrison. An Irishman came to see me
to-day, who is endeavoring to get his family out to this New World. He
rises at half past four, milks twenty-eight cows (which has swollen
the joints of his fingers), and eats his breakfast, without any milk
in his tea or coffee, before six; and so on, day after day, for six
and a half dollars a month; and thus he keeps his virtue in him, if he
does not add to it; and he regards me as a gentleman able to assist
him; but if I ever get to be a gentleman, it will be by working after
my fashion harder than he does. If my joints are not swollen, it must
be because I deal with the teats of celestial cows before breakfast
(and the milker in this case is always allowed some of the milk for
his breakfast), to say nothing of the flocks and herds of Admetus
afterward.

It is the art of mankind to polish the world, and every one who works
is scrubbing in some part.

If the work is high and far,

     You must not only aim aright,
     But draw the bow with all your might.

You must qualify yourself to use a bow which no humbler archer can
bend.

     "Work,--work,--work!"

Who shall know it for a bow? It is not of yew tree. It is straighter
than a ray of light; flexibility is not known for one of its
qualities.


     December 22.

So far I had got when I was called off to survey. Pray read the life
of Haydon the painter, if you have not. It is a small revelation for
these latter days; a great satisfaction to know that he has lived,
though he is now dead. Have you met with the letter of a Turkish cadi
at the end of Layard's "Ancient Babylon"? that also is refreshing, and
a capital comment on the whole book which precedes it,--the Oriental
genius speaking through him.

Those Brahmins "put it through." They come off, or rather stand still,
conquerors, with some withered arms or legs at least to show; and they
are said to have cultivated the faculty of abstraction to a degree
unknown to Europeans. If we cannot sing of faith and triumph, we will
sing our despair. We will be that kind of bird. There are day owls,
and there are night owls, and each is beautiful and even musical while
about its business.

Might you not find some positive work to do with your back to Church
and State, letting your back do all the rejection of them? Can you not
_go_ upon your pilgrimage, Peter, along the winding mountain path
whither you face? A step more will make those funereal church bells
over your shoulder sound far and sweet as a natural sound.

     "Work,--work,--work!"

Why not make a _very large_ mud pie and bake it in the sun! Only put
no Church nor State into it, nor upset any other pepper-box that way.
Dig out a woodchuck,--for that has nothing to do with rotting
institutions. Go ahead.

Whether a man spends his day in an ecstasy or despondency, he must do
some work to show for it, even as there are flesh and bones to show
for him. We are superior to the joy we experience.

Your last two letters, methinks, have more nerve and will in them than
usual, as if you had erected yourself more. Why are not they good
work, if you only had a hundred correspondents to tax you?

Make your failure tragical by the earnestness and steadfastness of
your endeavor, and then it will not differ from success. Prove it to
be the inevitable fate of mortals,--of one mortal,--if you can.

You said that you were writing on Immortality. I wish you would
communicate to me what you know about that. You are sure to live while
that is your theme.

Thus I write on some text which a sentence of your letters may have
furnished.

I think of coming to see you as soon as I get a new coat, if I have
money enough left. I will write to you again about it.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, January 21, 1854.

MR. BLAKE,--My coat is at last done, and my mother and sister allow
that I am _so far_ in a condition to go abroad. I feel as if I had
gone abroad the moment I put it on. It is, as usual, a production
strange to me, the wearer,--invented by some Count D'Orsay; and the
maker of it was not acquainted with any of my real depressions or
elevations. He only measured a peg to hang it on, and might have made
the loop big enough to go over my head. It requires a not quite
innocent indifference, not to say insolence, to wear it. Ah! the
process by which we get our coats is not what it should be. Though the
Church declares it righteous, and its priest pardons me, my own good
genius tells me that it is hasty, and coarse, and false. I expect a
time when, or rather an integrity by which, a man will get his coat as
honestly and as perfectly fitting as a tree its bark. Now our garments
are typical of our conformity to the ways of the world, _i. e._, of
the devil, and to some extent react on us and poison us, like that
shirt which Hercules put on.

I think to come and see you next week, on Monday, if nothing hinders.
I have just returned from court at Cambridge, whither I was called as
a witness, having surveyed a water-privilege, about which there is a
dispute, since you were here.

Ah! what foreign countries there are, greater in extent than the
United States or Russia, and with no more souls to a square mile,
stretching away on every side from every human being with whom you
have no sympathy. Their humanity affects me as simply monstrous.
Rocks, earth, brute beasts, comparatively are not so strange to me.
When I sit in the parlors and kitchens of some with whom my business
brings me--I was going to say in contact--(business, like misery,
makes strange bedfellows), I feel a sort of awe, and as forlorn as if
I were cast away on a desolate shore. I think of Riley's Narrative[50]
and his sufferings. You, who soared like a merlin with your mate
through the realms of æther, in the presence of the unlike, drop at
once to earth, a mere amorphous squab, divested of your air-inflated
pinions. (By the way, excuse this writing, for I am using the stub of
the last feather I chance to possess.) You travel on, however, through
this dark and desert world; you see in the distance an intelligent and
sympathizing lineament; stars come forth in the dark, and oases appear
in the desert.

But (to return to the subject of coats), we are well-nigh smothered
under yet more fatal coats, which do not fit us, our whole lives long.
Consider the cloak that our employment or station is; how rarely men
treat each other for what in their true and naked characters they are;
how we use and tolerate pretension; how the judge is clothed with
dignity which does not belong to him, and the trembling witness with
humility that does not belong to him, and the criminal, perchance,
with shame or impudence which no more belong to him. It does not
matter so much, then, what is the fashion of the cloak with which we
cloak these cloaks. Change the coat; put the judge in the
criminal-box, and the criminal on the bench, and you might think that
you had changed the men.

No doubt the thinnest of all cloaks is conscious deception or lies;
it is sleazy and frays out; it is not close-woven like cloth; but its
meshes are a coarse network. A man can afford to lie only at the
intersection of the threads; but truth puts in the filling, and makes
a consistent stuff.

I mean merely to suggest how much the station affects the demeanor and
self-respectability of the parties, and that the difference between
the judge's coat of cloth and the criminal's is insignificant compared
with, or only partially significant of, the difference between the
coats which their respective stations permit them to wear. What airs
the judge may put on over his coat which the criminal may not! The
judge's opinion (_sententia_) of the criminal _sentences_ him, and is
read by the clerk of the court, and published to the world, and
executed by the sheriff; but the criminal's opinion of the judge has
the weight of a sentence, and is published and executed only in the
supreme court of the universe,--a court not of common pleas. How much
juster is the one than the other? Men are continually _sentencing_
each other; but, whether we be judges or criminals, the sentence is
ineffectual unless we continue ourselves.

I am glad to hear that I do not always limit your vision when you look
this way; that you sometimes see the light through me; that I am here
and there windows, and not all dead wall. Might not the community
sometimes petition a man to remove himself as a nuisance, a darkener
of the day, a too large mote?


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, August 8, 1854.

MR. BLAKE,--Methinks I have spent a rather unprofitable summer thus
far. I have been too much with the world, as the poet might say.[51]
The completest performance of the highest duties it imposes would
yield me but little satisfaction. Better the neglect of all such,
because your life passed on a level where it was impossible to
recognize them. Latterly, I have heard the very flies buzz too
distinctly, and have accused myself because I did not still this
superficial din. We must not be too easily distracted by the crying of
children or of dynasties. The Irishman erects his sty, and gets drunk,
and jabbers more and more under my eaves, and I am responsible for all
that filth and folly. I find it, as ever, very unprofitable to have
much to do with men. It is sowing the wind, but not reaping even the
whirlwind; only reaping an unprofitable calm and stagnation. Our
conversation is a smooth, and civil, and never-ending speculation
merely. I take up the thread of it again in the morning, with very
much such courage as the invalid takes his prescribed Seidlitz
powders. Shall I help you to some of the mackerel? It would be more
respectable if men, as has been said before, instead of being such
pigmy desperates, were Giant Despairs. Emerson says that his life is
so unprofitable and shabby for the most part, that he is driven to all
sorts of resources, and, among the rest, to men. I tell him that we
differ only in our resources. Mine is to get away from men. They very
rarely affect me as grand or beautiful; but I know that there is a
sunrise and a sunset every day. In the summer, this world is a mere
watering-place,--a Saratoga,--drinking so many tumblers of Congress
water; and in the winter, is it any better, with its oratorios? I have
seen more men than usual, lately; and, well as I was acquainted with
one, I am surprised to find what vulgar fellows they are. They do a
little business commonly each day, in order to pay their board, and
then they congregate in sitting-rooms and feebly fabulate and paddle
in the social slush; and when I think that they have sufficiently
relaxed, and am prepared to see them steal away to their shrines, they
go unashamed to their beds, and take on a new layer of sloth. They may
be single, or have families in their _faineancy_. I do not meet men
who can have nothing to do with me because they have so much to do
with themselves. However, I trust that a very few cherish purposes
which they never declare. Only think, for a moment, of a man about his
affairs! How we should respect him! How glorious he would appear! Not
working for any corporation, its agent, or president, but fulfilling
the end of his being! A man about _his business_ would be the cynosure
of all eyes.

The other evening I was determined that I would silence this shallow
din; that I would walk in various directions and see if there was not
to be found any depth of silence around. As Bonaparte sent out his
horsemen in the Red Sea on all sides to find shallow water, so I sent
forth my mounted thoughts to find deep water. I left the village and
paddled up the river to Fair Haven Pond. As the sun went down, I saw
a solitary boatman disporting on the smooth lake. The falling dews
seemed to strain and purify the air, and I was smoothed with an
infinite stillness. I got the world, as it were, by the nape of the
neck, and held it under in the tide of its own events, till it was
drowned, and then I let it go down-stream like a dead dog. Vast hollow
chambers of silence stretched away on every side, and my being
expanded in proportion, and filled them. Then first could I appreciate
sound, and find it musical.[52]

But now for your news. Tell us of the year. Have you fought the good
fight? What is the state of your crops? Will your harvest answer well
to the seed-time, and are you cheered by the prospect of stretching
cornfields? Is there any blight on your fields, any murrain in your
herds? Have you tried the size and quality of your potatoes? It does
one good to see their balls dangling in the lowlands. Have you got
your meadow hay before the fall rains shall have set in? Is there
enough in your barns to keep your cattle over? Are you killing weeds
nowadays? or have you earned leisure to go a-fishing? Did you plant
any Giant Regrets last spring, such as I saw advertised? It is not a
new species, but the result of cultivation and a fertile soil. They
are excellent for sauce. How is it with your marrow squashes for
winter use? Is there likely to be a sufficiency of fall feed in your
neighborhood? What is the state of the springs? I read that in your
county there is more water on the hills than in the valleys. Do you
find it easy to get all the help you require? Work early and late, and
let your men and teams rest at noon. Be careful not to drink too much
sweetened water, while at your hoeing, this hot weather. You can bear
the heat much better for it.


TO MARSTON WATSON (AT PLYMOUTH).

     CONCORD, September 19, 1854.

DEAR SIR,--I am glad to hear from you and the Plymouth men again. The
world still holds together between Concord and Plymouth, it seems. I
should like to be with you while Mr. Alcott is there, but I cannot
come next Sunday. I will come Sunday after next, that is, October 1st,
if that will do; and look out for you at the depot. I do not like to
promise more than one discourse. Is there a good precedent for two?

       *       *       *       *       *

The first of Thoreau's many lecturing visits to Worcester, the home of
his friend Blake, was in April, 1849, and from that time onward he
must have read lectures there at least annually, until his last
illness, in 1861-62. By 1854, the lecturing habit, in several places
besides Concord, had become established; and there was a constant
interchange of visits and excursions with his friends at Worcester,
Plymouth, New Bedford, etc. Soon after the publication of "Walden," in
the summer of 1854, Thoreau wrote these notes to Mr. Blake, touching
on various matters of friendly interest.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, September 21, 1854.

BLAKE,--I have just read your letter, but do not mean now to answer
it, solely for want of time to say what I wish. I directed a copy of
"Walden" to you at Ticknor's, on the day of its publication, and it
should have reached you before. I am encouraged to know that it
interests you as it now stands,--a printed book,--for you apply a very
severe test to it,--you make the highest demand on me. As for the
excursion you speak of, I should like it right well,--indeed I thought
of proposing the same thing to you and Brown, some months ago. Perhaps
it would have been better if I had done so then; for in that case I
should have been able to enter into it with that infinite margin to my
views,--spotless of all engagements,--which I think so necessary. As
it is, I have agreed to go a-lecturing to Plymouth, Sunday after next
(October 1) and to Philadelphia in November, and thereafter to the
West, _if they shall want me_; and, as I have prepared nothing in that
shape, I feel as if my hours were spoken for. However, I think that,
after having been to Plymouth, I may take a day or two--if that date
will suit you and Brown. _At any rate_ I will write to you then.


     CONCORD, October 5, 1854.

After I wrote to you, Mr. Watson postponed my going to Plymouth one
week, _i. e._, till next Sunday; and now he wishes me to carry my
instruments and survey his grounds, to which he has been adding. Since
I want a little money, though I contemplate but a short excursion, I
do not feel at liberty to decline this work. I do not know exactly how
long it will detain me,--but there is plenty of time yet, and I will
write to you again--perhaps from Plymouth.

There is a Mr. Thomas Cholmondeley (pronounced Chumly), a young
English author, staying at our house at present, who asks me to teach
him _botany_--_i. e._, anything which I know; and also to make an
excursion to some mountain with him. He is a well-behaved person, and
_possibly_ I may propose his taking that run to Wachusett with us--if
it will be agreeable to you. Nay, if I do not hear any objection from
you, I will consider myself _at liberty_ to invite him.

     CONCORD, Saturday P. M., October 14, 1854.

I have just returned from Plymouth, where I have been detained
surveying much longer than I expected. What do you say to visiting
Wachusett next Thursday? I will start at 7¼ A. M. _unless there is a
prospect of a stormy day_, go by cars to Westminster, and thence on
foot five or six miles to the mountain-top, where I may engage to meet
you, at (or before) 12 M. If the weather is unfavorable, I will try
again, on Friday,--and again on Monday. If a storm comes on after
starting, I will seek you at the tavern at Princeton centre, as soon
as circumstances will permit. I shall expect an answer at once, to
clinch the bargain.

       *       *       *       *       *

The year 1854 was a memorable one in Thoreau's life, for it brought
out his most successful book, "Walden," and introduced him to the
notice of the world, which had paid small attention to his first book,
the "Week," published five years earlier. This year also made him
acquainted with two friends to whom he wrote much, and who loved to
visit and stroll with him around Concord, or in more distant
places,--Thomas Cholmondeley, an Englishman from Shropshire, and
Daniel Ricketson, a New Bedford Quaker, of liberal mind and cultivated
tastes,--an author and poet, and fond of corresponding with poets, as
he did with the Howitts and William Barnes of England, and with
Bryant, Emerson, Channing, and Thoreau, in America. Few of the letters
to Cholmondeley are yet found, being buried temporarily in the mass of
family papers at Condover Hall, an old Elizabethan mansion near
Shrewsbury, which Thomas Cholmondeley inherited, and which remains in
his family's possession since his own death at Florence in 1864. But
the letters of the Englishman, recently printed in the _Atlantic
Monthly_ (December, 1893), show how sincere was the attachment of
this ideal friend to the Concord recluse, and how well he read that
character which the rest of England, and a good part of America, have
been so slow to recognize for what it really was.

Thomas Cholmondeley was the eldest son of Rev. Charles Cowper
Cholmondeley, rector of Overleigh, Cheshire, and of a sister to
Reginald Heber, the celebrated bishop of Calcutta. He was born in
1823, and brought up at Hodnet, in Shropshire, where his father, a
cousin of Lord Delamere, had succeeded his brother-in-law as rector,
on the departure of Bishop Heber for India, in 1823. The son was
educated at Oriel College, Oxford,--a friend, and perhaps pupil of
Arthur Hugh Clough, who gave him letters to Emerson in 1854. Years
before, after leaving Oxford, he had gone with some relatives to New
Zealand, and before coming to New England he had published a book,
"Ultima Thule," describing that Australasian colony of England, where
he lived for part of a year. He had previously studied in Germany, and
traveled on the Continent. He landed in America the first time in
August, 1854, and soon after went to Concord, where, at the suggestion
of Emerson, he became an inmate of Mrs. Thoreau's family. This made
him intimate with Henry Thoreau for a month or two, and also brought
him into acquaintance with Ellery Channing, then living across the
main street of Concord, in the west end of the village, and furnishing
to Thoreau a landing-place for his boat under the willows at the foot
of Channing's small garden. Alcott was not then in Concord, but
Cholmondeley made his acquaintance in Boston, and admired his
character and manners.[53]

  [Illustration: _Thoreau's Boat-landing, Concord River_]

With Channing and Thoreau the young Englishman visited their nearest
mountain, Wachusett, and in some of their walks the artist Rowse, who
had made the first portrait of Thoreau, joined, for he was then in
Concord, late in 1854, engraving the fine head of Daniel Webster from
a painting by Ames, and this engraving he gave both to Thoreau and to
Cholmondeley. In December the Englishman, whose patriotism was roused
by the delays and calamities of England in her Crimean war, resolved
to go home and raise a company, as he did, first spending some weeks
in lodgings at Boston (Orange Street) in order to hear Theodore Parker
preach and visit Harvard College, of which I was then a student, in
the senior class. He visited me and my classmate, Edwin Morton, and
called on some of the Cambridge friends of Clough. In January, 1855,
he sailed for England, and there received the letter of Thoreau
printed on pages 249-251.

The acquaintance with Mr. Ricketson began by letter before
Cholmondeley reached Concord, but Thoreau did not visit him until
December, 1854. Mr. Ricketson says, "In the summer of 1854 I
purchased, in New Bedford, a copy of 'Walden.' I had never heard of
its author, but in this admirable and most original book I found so
many observations on plants, birds, and natural objects generally in
which I was also interested, that I felt at once I had found a
congenial spirit. During this season I was rebuilding a house in the
country, three miles from New Bedford, and had erected a small
building which was called my 'shanty;' and my family being then in my
city house, I made this building my temporary home. From it I
addressed my first letter to the author of 'Walden.' In reply he
wrote, 'I had duly received your very kind and frank letter, but
delayed to answer it thus long because I have little skill as a
correspondent, and wished to send you something more than my thanks. I
was gratified by your prompt and hearty acceptance of my book. Yours
is the only word of greeting I am likely to receive from a dweller in
the woods like myself,--from where the whip-poor-will and cuckoo are
heard, and there are better than moral clouds drifting over, and real
breezes blow.' From that year until his death in 1862 we exchanged
visits annually, and letters more frequently. He was much interested
in the botany of our region, finding here many marine plants he had
not before seen. When our friendship began, the admirers of his only
two published books were few; most prominent among them were Emerson,
Alcott, and Channing of Concord, Messrs. Blake and T. Brown of
Worcester, Mr. Marston Watson of Plymouth, and myself. Many accused
him of being an imitator of Emerson; others thought him unsocial,
impracticable, and ascetic. Now he was none of these; a more original
man never lived, nor one more thoroughly personifying civility; no man
could hold a finer relationship with his family than he."

In reply to Mr. Ricketson's first letter (August 12, 1854) above
mentioned, Thoreau sent, after six weeks' delay, the reply of October
1, the beginning of which was just quoted. Continuing, Thoreau said:--

"Your account excites in me a desire to see the Middleborough ponds,
of which I had already heard somewhat; as also some very beautiful
ponds on the Cape, in Harwich, I think, near which I once passed. I
have sometimes also thought of visiting that remnant of _our_ Indians
still living near you. But then, you know, there is nothing like one's
native fields and lakes. The best news you send me is, not that Nature
with you is so fair and genial, but that there is one there who likes
her so well. That proves all that was asserted.

"Homer, of course, you include in your list of lovers of Nature; and,
by the way, let me mention here--for this is 'my thunder'
lately--William Gilpin's long series of books on the Picturesque, with
their illustrations. If it chances that you have not met with these, I
cannot just now frame a better wish than that you may one day derive
as much pleasure from the inspection of them as I have.

"Much as you have told me of yourself, you have still, I think, a
little the advantage of me in this correspondence, for I have told you
still more in my book. You have therefore the broadest mark to fire
at.

"A young English author, Thomas Cholmondeley, is just now waiting for
me to take a walk with him; therefore excuse this very barren note
from

     "Yours, hastily at last."

Between the letter just quoted and Thoreau's next, of December 19,
1854, a letter is obviously missing. Mr. Ricketson had answered
(October 12), the first letter, and on December 14 had written again
to convey an invitation from Mr. Mitchell that Thoreau should lecture
at New Bedford, the 26th, on his way to Nantucket for the 28th.
Probably Thoreau had replied to the letter of October 12, and to the
invitation to bring Cholmondeley with him in the pleasant October
season. In this reply he had said something which called forth from
Ricketson an expression of sympathy, as well as the December
invitation; for Thoreau thus replied to the letter of December 14:--


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, December 19, 1854.

DEAR SIR,--I wish to thank you for your sympathy. I had counted on
seeing you when I came to New Bedford, though I did not know exactly
how near to it you permanently dwelt; therefore I gladly accept your
invitation to stop at your house. I am going to lecture at Nantucket
the 28th, and as I suppose I must improve the earliest opportunity to
get there from New Bedford, I will endeavor to come on Monday, that I
may see yourself and New Bedford before my lecture.

I should like right well to see your ponds, but that is hardly to be
thought of at present. I fear that it is impossible for me to combine
such things with the business of lecturing. You cannot serve God and
Mammon. However, perhaps I shall have time to see something of your
country. I am aware that you have not so much snow as we; there has
been excellent sleighing here since the 5th inst.

Mr. Cholmondeley has left us, so that I shall come alone. Will you be
so kind as to warn Mr. Mitchell that I accept at once his invitation
to lecture on the 26th of this month, for I do not know that he has
got my letter. Excuse this short note.[54]


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, December 19, 1854.

MR. BLAKE,--I suppose you have heard of my truly providential meeting
with Mr. [T.] Brown; providential because it saved me from the
suspicion that my words had fallen altogether on stony ground, when it
turned out that there was some Worcester soil there. You will allow me
to consider that I correspond with him through you.

I confess that I am a very bad correspondent, so far as promptness of
reply is concerned; but then I am sure to answer sooner or later. The
longer I have forgotten you, the more I remember you. For the most
part I have not been idle since I saw you. How does the world go with
you? or rather, how do you get along without it? I have not yet
learned to live, that I can see, and I fear that I shall not very
soon. I find, however, that in the long run things correspond to my
original idea,--that they correspond to nothing else so much; and thus
a man may really be a true prophet without any great exertion. The day
is never so dark, nor the night even, but that the laws at least of
light still prevail, and so may make it light in our minds if they are
open to the truth. There is considerable danger that a man will be
crazy between dinner and supper; but it will not directly answer any
good purpose that I know of, and it is just as easy to be sane. We
have got to know what both life and death are, before we can begin to
live after our own fashion. Let us be learning our a-b-c's as soon as
possible. I never yet knew the sun to be knocked down and rolled
through a mud-puddle; he comes out honor-bright from behind every
storm. Let us then take sides with the sun, seeing we have so much
leisure. Let us not put all we prize into a football to be kicked,
when a bladder will do as well.

When an Indian is burned, his body may be broiled, it may be no more
than a beefsteak. What of that? They may broil his _heart_, but they
do not therefore broil his _courage_,--his principles. Be of good
courage! That is the main thing.

If a man were to place himself in an attitude to bear manfully the
greatest evil that can be inflicted on him, he would find suddenly
that there was no such evil to bear; his brave back would go
a-begging. When Atlas got his back made up, that was all that was
required. (In this case _a priv._, not _pleon._, and τλῆμι.)
The world rests on principles. The wise gods will never make
underpinning of a man. But as long as he crouches, and skulks, and
shirks his work, every creature that has weight will be treading on
his toes, and crushing him; he will himself tread with one foot on the
other foot.

The monster is never just there where we think he is. What is truly
monstrous is our cowardice and sloth.

Have no idle disciplines like the Catholic Church and others; have
only positive and fruitful ones. Do what you know you ought to do. Why
should we ever go abroad, even across the way, to ask a neighbor's
advice? There is a nearer neighbor within us incessantly telling us
how we should behave. But we wait for the neighbor without to tell us
of some false, easier way.

They have a census-table in which they put down the number of the
insane. Do you believe that they put them all down there? Why, in
every one of these houses there is at least one man fighting or
squabbling a good part of his time with a dozen pet demons of his own
breeding and cherishing, which are relentlessly gnawing at his vitals;
and if perchance he resolve at length that he will courageously combat
them, he says, "Ay! ay! I will attend to you after dinner!" And, when
that time comes, he concludes that he is good for another stage, and
reads a column or two about the _Eastern War_! Pray, to be in earnest,
where is Sevastopol? Who is Menchikoff? and Nicholas behind there? who
the Allies? Did not we fight a little (little enough to be sure, but
just enough to make it interesting) at Alma, at Balaclava, at
Inkermann? We love to fight far from home. Ah! the Minié musket is the
king of weapons. Well, let us get one then.

I just put another stick into my stove,--a pretty large mass of white
oak. How many men will do enough this cold winter to pay for the fuel
that will be required to warm them? I suppose I have burned up a
pretty good-sized tree to-night,--and for what? I settled with Mr.
Tarbell for it the other day; but that was n't the final settlement. I
got off cheaply from him. At last, one will say, "Let us see, how much
wood did you burn, sir?" And I shall shudder to think that the next
question will be, "What did you do while you were warm?" Do we think
the ashes will pay for it? that God is an ash-man? It is a fact that
we have got to render an account for the deeds done in the body.

Who knows but we shall be better the next year than we have been the
past? At any rate, I wish you a really _new_ year,--commencing from
the instant you read this,--and happy or unhappy, according to your
deserts.


TO HARRISON BLAKE.

     CONCORD, December 22, 1854.

MR. BLAKE,--I will lecture for your Lyceum on the 4th of January next;
and I hope that I shall have time for that good day out of doors. Mr.
Cholmondeley is in Boston, yet _perhaps_ I may invite him to
accompany me. I have engaged to lecture at New Bedford on the 26th
inst., stopping with Daniel Ricketson, three miles out of town; and at
Nantucket on the 28th, so that I shall be gone all next week. They say
there is some danger of being weather-bound at Nantucket; but I see
that others run the same risk. You had better acknowledge the receipt
of this at any rate, though you should write nothing else; otherwise I
shall not know whether you get it; but perhaps you will not wait till
you have seen me, to answer my letter (of December 19). I will tell
you what I think of lecturing when I see you. Did you see the notice
of "Walden" in the last _Anti-Slavery Standard_? You will not be
surprised if I tell you that it reminded me of you.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the Christmas Day that Thoreau reached New Bedford, he had left
home in the forenoon, as usual in his Cambridge visits, spent some
time at Harvard College, and gone on by the train in the afternoon,
which accounted for his delay. His host, who then saw him for the
first time, says:--

"I had expected him at noon, but as he did not arrive, I had given him
up for the day. In the latter part of the afternoon I was clearing off
the snow from my front steps, when, looking up, I saw a man walking up
the carriage-road, bearing a portmanteau in one hand and an umbrella
in the other. He was dressed in a long overcoat of dark color, and
wore a dark soft hat. I had no suspicion it was Thoreau, and rather
supposed it was a peddler of small wares."

This was a common mistake to make. When Thoreau ran the gantlet of the
Cape Cod villages,--"feeling as strange," he says, "as if he were in a
town in China,"--one of the old fishermen could not believe that he
had not something to sell. Being finally satisfied that it was not a
peddler with his pack, the old man said, "Wal, it makes no odds what
't is you carry, so long as you carry Truth along with ye." Mr.
Ricketson came to the same conclusion about his visitor, and in the
early September of 1855 returned the visit.

On the 4th of January, 1855, Ricketson wrote, saying, "Your visit,
short as it was, gave us all at Brooklawn much satisfaction;" adding
that he might visit Concord late in January, when he expected to be in
Boston. Thoreau replied:--


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, January 6, 1855.

MR. RICKETSON,--I am pleased to hear from the shanty, whose inside and
occupant I have seen. I had a very pleasant time at Brooklawn, as you
know, and thereafter at Nantucket. I was obliged to pay the usual
tribute to the sea, but it was more than made up to me by the
hospitality of the Nantucketers. Tell Arthur that I can now compare
notes with him; for though I went neither before nor behind the mast,
since we had n't any, I went with my head hanging over the side all the
way.

In spite of all my experience, I persisted in reading to the Nantucket
people the lecture which I read at New Bedford, and I found them to be
the very audience for me. I got home Friday night, after being lost
in the fog off Hyannis.[55] I have not yet found a new jackknife, but
I had a glorious skating with Channing the other day, on the skates
found long ago.

Mr. Cholmondeley sailed for England direct, in the America, on the 3d,
after spending a night with me. He thinks even to go to the East and
enlist. Last night I returned from lecturing in Worcester.

I shall be glad to see you when you come to Boston, as will also my
mother and sister, who know something about you as an abolitionist.
Come directly to our house. Please remember me to Mrs. Ricketson, and
also to the young folks.

       *       *       *       *       *

After writing that he expected to be at the anti-slavery meetings in
Boston, January 24 and 25, ill health and a snow-storm detained
Ricketson at Brooklawn, whereupon Thoreau wrote:--


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, February 1, 1855.

DEAR SIR,--I supposed, as I did not see you on the 24th or 25th, that
some track or other was obstructed; but the solid earth still holds
together between New Bedford and Concord, and I trust that as this
time you stayed away, you may live to come another day.

I did not go to Boston, for with regard to that place I sympathize
with one of my neighbors, an old man, who has not been there since the
last war, when he was compelled to go. No, I have a real genius for
staying at home.

I have been looking of late at Bewick's tail-pieces in the
"Birds,"--all they have of him at Harvard. Why will he be a little
vulgar at times? Yesterday I made an excursion up our river,--skated
some thirty miles in a few hours, if you will believe it. So with
reading and writing and skating the night comes round again.

       *       *       *       *       *

The early part of 1855 was spent by Thomas Cholmondeley in a tiresome
passage to England, whence he wrote (January 27) to say to Thoreau
that he had reached Shropshire, and been commissioned captain in the
local militia, in preparation for service at Sevastopol, but reminding
his Concord friend of a half promise to visit England some day. To
this Thoreau made answer thus:--


TO THOMAS CHOLMONDELEY (AT HODNET).

     CONCORD, Mass., February 7, 1855.

DEAR CHOLMONDELEY,--I am glad to hear that you have arrived safely at
Hodnet, and that there is a solid piece of ground of that name which
can support a man better than a floating plank, in that to me as yet
purely historical England. But have I not seen you with my own eyes, a
piece of England herself, and was not your letter come out to me
thence? I have now reason to believe that Salop is as real a place as
Concord; with at least as good an underpinning of granite, floating on
liquid fire. I congratulate you on having arrived safely at that
floating isle, after your disagreeable passage in the steamer America.
So are we not all making a passage, agreeable or disagreeable, in the
steamer Earth, trusting to arrive at last at some less undulating
Salop and brother's house?

I cannot say that I am surprised to hear that you have joined the
militia, after what I have heard from your lips; but I am glad to
doubt if there will be occasion for your volunteering into the line.
Perhaps I am thinking of the saying that it "is always darkest just
before day." I believe it is only necessary that England be fully
awakened to a sense of her position, in order that she may right
herself, especially as the weather will soon cease to be her foe. I
wish I could believe that the cause in which you are embarked is the
cause of the people of England. However, I have no sympathy with the
idleness that would contrast this fighting with the teachings of the
pulpit; for, perchance, more true virtue is being practiced at
Sevastopol than in many years of peace. It is a pity that we seem to
require a war, from time to time, to assure us that there is any
manhood still left in man.

I was much pleased with [J. J. G.] Wilkinson's vigorous and telling
assault on Allopathy, though he substitutes another and perhaps no
stronger _thy_ for that. Something as good on the whole conduct of the
war would be of service. Cannot Carlyle supply it? We will not require
him to provide the remedy. Every man to his trade. As you know, I am
not in any sense a politician. You, who live in that snug and compact
isle, may dream of a glorious commonwealth, but I have some doubts
whether I and the new king of the Sandwich Islands shall pull
together. When I think of the gold-diggers and the Mormons, the slaves
and the slaveholders and the flibustiers, I naturally dream of a
glorious private life. No, I am not patriotic; I shall not meddle with
the Gem of the Antilles. General Quitman[56] cannot count on my aid,
alas for him! nor can General Pierce.[57]

I still take my daily walk, or skate over Concord fields or meadows,
and on the whole have more to do with nature than with man. We have
not had much snow this winter, but have had some remarkably cold
weather, the mercury, February 6, not rising above 6° below zero
during the day, and the next morning falling to 26°. Some ice is still
thirty inches thick about us. A rise in the river has made uncommonly
good skating, which I have improved to the extent of some thirty miles
a day, fifteen out and fifteen in.

Emerson is off westward, enlightening the Hamiltonians [in Canada] and
others, mingling his thunder with that of Niagara. Channing still sits
warming his five wits--his sixth, you know, is always limber--over
that stove, with the dog down cellar. Lowell has just been appointed
Professor of Belles-Lettres in Harvard University, in place of
Longfellow, resigned, and will go very soon to spend another year in
Europe, before taking his seat.

I am from time to time congratulating myself on my general want of
success as a lecturer; apparent want of success, but is it not a real
triumph? I do my work clean as I go along, and they will not be likely
to want me anywhere again. So there is no danger of my repeating
myself, and getting to a barrel of sermons, which you must upset, and
begin again with.

My father and mother and sister all desire to be remembered to you,
and trust that you will never come within range of Russian bullets. Of
course, I would rather think of you as settled down there in
Shropshire, in the camp of the English people, making acquaintance
with your men, striking at the root of the evil, perhaps assaulting
that rampart of cotton bags that you tell of. But it makes no odds
where a man goes or stays, if he is only about his business.

Let me hear from you, wherever you are, and believe me yours ever in
the good fight, whether before Sevastopol or under the wreken.

       *       *       *       *       *

While Cholmondeley's first letter from England was on its way to
Concord, Thoreau was one day making his occasional call at the Harvard
College Library (where he found and was allowed to take away volumes
relating to his manifold studies), when it occurred to him to call at
my student-chamber in Holworthy Hall, and there leave a copy of his
"Week." I had never met him, and was then out; the occasion of his
call was a review of his two books that had come out a few weeks
earlier in the _Harvard Magazine_, of which I was an editor and might
be supposed to have had some share in the criticism. The volume was
left with my classmate Lyman, accompanied by a message that it was
intended for the critic in the Magazine. Accordingly, I gave it to
Edwin Morton, who was the reviewer, and notified Thoreau by letter of
that fact, and of my hope to see him soon in Cambridge or Concord.[58]
To this he replied in a few days as below:--


TO F. B. SANBORN (AT HAMPTON FALLS, N. H.).

     CONCORD, February 2, 1855.

DEAR SIR,--I fear that you did not get the note which I left with the
Librarian for you, and so will thank you again for your politeness. I
was sorry that I was obliged to go into Boston almost immediately.
However, I shall be glad to see you whenever you come to Concord, and
I will suggest nothing to discourage your coming, so far as I am
concerned; trusting that you know what it is to take a partridge on
the wing. You tell me that the author of the criticism is Mr. Morton.
I had heard as much,--and indeed guessed more. I have latterly found
Concord nearer to Cambridge than I believed I should, when I was
leaving my Alma Mater; and hence you will not be surprised if even I
feel some interest in the success of the _Harvard Magazine_.

     Believe me yours truly,
     HENRY D. THOREAU.

At this time I was under engagement with Mr. Emerson and others in
Concord to take charge of a small school there in March; and did so
without again seeing the author of "Walden" in Cambridge. Soon after
my settlement at Concord, in the house of Mr. Channing, just opposite
Thoreau's, he made an evening call on me and my sister (April 11,
1855), but I had already met him more than once at Mr. Emerson's, and
was even beginning to take walks with him, as frequently happened in
the next six years. In the following summer I began to dine daily at
his mother's table, and thus saw him almost every day for three years.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, June 27, 1855.

MR. BLAKE,--I have been sick and good for nothing but to lie on my
back and wait for something to turn up, for two or three months. This
has _compelled me_ to postpone several things, among them writing to
you, to whom I am so deeply in debt, and inviting you and Brown to
Concord,--not having brains adequate to such an exertion. I should
feel a little less ashamed if I could give any name to my
disorder,--but I cannot, and our doctor cannot help me to it,--and I
will not take the name of any disease in vain. However, there is one
consolation in being sick; and that is the possibility that you may
recover to a better state than you were ever in before. I expected in
the winter to be deep in the woods of Maine in my canoe, long before
this; but I am so far from this that I can only take a languid walk in
Concord streets.

I do not know how the mistake arose about the Cape Cod excursion. The
nearest I have come to that with anybody is this: About a month ago
Channing proposed to me to go to Truro on Cape Cod with him, and board
there a while,--but I declined. For a week past, however, I have been
a little inclined to go there and sit on the seashore a week or more;
but I do not venture to propose myself as the companion of him or of
any peripatetic man. Not that I should not rejoice to have you and
Brown or C. sitting there also. I am not sure that C. really wishes to
go now; and as I go simply for the medicine of it, I should not think
it worth the while to notify him when I am about to take my bitters.
Since I began this, or within five minutes, I have begun to think that
I will start for Truro next Saturday morning, the 30th. I do not know
at what hour the packet leaves Boston, nor exactly what kind of
accommodation I shall find at Truro.

I should be singularly favored if you and Brown were there at the same
time; and though you speak of the 20th of July, I will be so bold as
to suggest your coming to Concord Friday night (when, by the way,
Garrison and Phillips hold forth here), and going to the Cape with me.
Though we take short walks together there, we can have _long_ talks,
and you and Brown will have time enough for your own excursions
besides.

I received a letter from Cholmondeley last winter, which I should like
to show you, as well as his book.[59] He said that he had "accepted
the offer of a captaincy in the Salop Militia," and was hoping to take
an active part in the war before long.

I thank you again and again for the encouragement your letters are to
me. But I must stop this writing, or I shall have to pay for it.


     NORTH TRURO, July 8, 1855.

There being no packet, I did not leave Boston till last Thursday,
though I came down on Wednesday, and Channing with me. There is no
public house here; but we are boarding in a little house attached to
the Highland Lighthouse with Mr. James Small, the keeper. It is true
the table is not so clean as could be desired, but I have found it
much superior in that respect to a Provincetown hotel. They are what
are called "good livers." Our host has another larger and very good
house, within a quarter of a mile, unoccupied, where he says he can
accommodate several more. He is a very good man to deal with,--has
often been the representative of the town, and is perhaps the most
intelligent man in it. I shall probably stay here as much as ten days
longer. Board $3.50 per week. So you and Brown had better come down
forthwith. You will find either the schooner Melrose or another, or
both, leaving Commerce Street, or else T Wharf, at 9 A. M. (it
commonly means 10), Tuesdays, Thursdays, and Saturdays,--if not other
days. We left about 10 A. M., and reached Provincetown at 5 P. M.,--a
very good run. A stage runs up the Cape every morning but Sunday,
starting at 4½ A. M., and reaches the post-office in North Truro,
seven miles from Provincetown, and one from the lighthouse, about 6
o'clock. If you arrive at P. before night, you can walk over, and
leave your baggage to be sent. You can also come by cars from Boston
to Yarmouth, and thence by stage forty miles more,--through every day,
but it costs much more, and is not so pleasant. Come by all means, for
it is the best place to see the ocean in the States.... I _hope_ I
shall be worth meeting.


     July 14.

You say that you hope I will excuse your frequent writing. I trust you
will excuse my infrequent and curt writing until I am able to resume
my old habits, which for three months I have been compelled to
abandon. Methinks I am beginning to be better. I think to leave the
Cape next Wednesday, and so shall not see you here; but I shall be
glad to meet you in Concord, though I may not be able to go _before
the mast_, in a boating excursion. This is an admirable place for
coolness and sea-bathing and retirement. You must come prepared for
cool weather and fogs.

P. S.--There is no mail up till Monday morning.

       *       *       *       *       *

During the spring and early summer of 1855, Thoreau was much occupied
with his home duties, or was ill,--the earlier approaches of that
disease of which he languished, taking medical advice in 1860-61. This
must have prevented an earlier visit to Concord by his friend
Ricketson than September, 1855, and I find no letters intervening,
although there must have been one or two, to arrange the visit. He
reached Concord about September 20, and found me living in the lower
stories of Channing's house, while the owner chiefly occupied the
attic, where, no doubt, as in the old Hunt house, Ricketson smoked
with him. They went together to call on Edmund Hosmer, and it was at
the sight of this old house that Ricketson formed the plan of
occupying a chamber there. It stood a half-mile down the river, a
little below where the Assabet runs into the main channel. Writing to
Thoreau, Sunday, September 23, Ricketson said:--

"How charmingly you, Channing, and I dovetailed together! Few men
smoke such pipes as we did,--the real Calumet; the tobacco that we
smoked was free labor produce. I haven't lost sight of Solon Hosmer,
the wisest-looking man in Concord, and a real _feelosofer_. I want you
to see him, and tell him not to take down the old house where the
_feelosofers_ met. I think I should like to have the large chamber
for an occasional sojourn in Concord. It can be easily tinkered up so
as to be a comfortable roost for a _feelosofer_,--a few old chairs, a
table, bed, etc., would be all-sufficient; then you and Channing could
come over in your punt and rusticate."

The "punt" was Thoreau's boat, in which he sometimes set up a small
mast and sail, and which he kept at the foot of Channing's garden,
where, that summer, my heavy four-oared boat also lay, when my pupils
were not rowing in it. In his letter to Blake of September 26, Thoreau
described Ricketson, and the next day he answered Ricketson's letter.
Cholmondeley in the meantime, the war being not yet over, was making
his way to the Crimea through southern Europe.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, September 26, 1855.

MR. BLAKE,--The other day I thought that my health must be
better,--that I gave at last a sign of vitality,--because I
experienced a slight chagrin. But I do not see how strength is to be
got into my legs again. These months of feebleness have yielded few,
if any, thoughts, though they have not passed without serenity, such
as our sluggish Musketaquid suggests. I hope that the harvest is to
come. I trust that you have at least warped up the stream a little
daily, holding fast by your anchors at night, since I saw you, and
have kept my place for me while I have been absent.

Mr. Ricketson of New Bedford has just made me a visit of a day and a
half, and I have had a quite good time with him. He and Channing have
got on particularly well together. He is a man of very simple tastes,
notwithstanding his wealth; a lover of nature; but, above all,
singularly frank and plain-spoken. I think that you might enjoy
meeting him.

Sincerity is a great but rare virtue, and we pardon to it much
complaining, and the betrayal of many weaknesses. R. says of himself,
that he sometimes thinks that he has all the infirmities of genius
without the genius; is wretched without a hair pillow, etc.; expresses
a great and awful uncertainty with regard to "God," "Death," his
"immortality;" says, "If I only knew," etc. He loves Cowper's "Task"
better than anything else; and thereafter perhaps, Thomson, Gray, and
even Howitt. He has evidently suffered for want of sympathizing
companions. He says that he sympathizes with much in my books, but
much in them is naught to him,--"namby-pamby,"--"stuff,"--"mystical."
Why will not I, having common sense, write in plain English always;
_teach_ men in detail how to live a simpler life, etc.; not go off
into ----? But I say that I have no scheme about it,--no designs on
men at all; and, if I had, my mode would be to tempt them with the
fruit, and not with the manure. To what end do I lead a simple life at
all, pray? That I may teach others to simplify their lives?--and so
all our lives be _simplified_ merely, like an algebraic formula? Or
not, rather, that I may make use of the ground I have cleared, to live
more worthily and profitably? I would fain lay the most stress forever
on that which is the most important,--imports the most to me,--though
it were only (what it is likely to be) a vibration in the air. As a
preacher, I should be prompted to tell men, not so much how to get
their wheat bread cheaper, as of the bread of life compared with which
_that_ is bran. Let a man only taste these loaves, and he becomes a
skillful economist at once. He'll not waste much time in earning
those. Don't spend your time in drilling soldiers, who may turn out
hirelings after all, but give to undrilled peasantry a _country_ to
fight for. The schools begin with what they call the elements, and
where do they end?

I was glad to hear the other day that Higginson and ---- were gone to
Ktaadn; it must be so much better to go to than a Woman's Rights or
Abolition Convention; better still, to the delectable primitive mounts
within you, which you have dreamed of from your youth up, and seen,
perhaps, in the horizon, but never climbed.

But how do _you_ do? Is the air sweet to you? Do you find anything at
which you can work, accomplishing something solid from day to day?
Have you put sloth and doubt behind, considerably?--had one redeeming
dream this summer? I dreamed, last night, that I could vault over any
height it pleased me. That was _something_; and I contemplated myself
with a slight satisfaction in the morning for it.

Methinks I will write to you. Methinks you will be glad to hear. We
will stand on solid foundations to one another,--I a column planted on
this shore, you on that. We meet the same sun in his rising. We were
built slowly, and have come to our bearing. We will not mutually fall
over that we may meet, but will grandly and eternally guard the
straits. Methinks I see an inscription on you, which the architect
made, the stucco being worn off to it. The name of that ambitious
worldly king is crumbling away. I see it toward sunset in favorable
lights. Each must read for the other, as might a sailer-by. Be sure
you are star-y-pointing still. How is it on your side? I will not
require an answer until you think I have paid my debts to you.

I have just got a letter from Ricketson, urging me to come to New
Bedford, which possibly I may do. He says I can wear my old clothes
there.

Let me be remembered in your quiet house.


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, September 27, 1855.

FRIEND RICKETSON,--I am sorry that you were obliged to leave Concord
without seeing more of it,--its river and woods, and various pleasant
walks, and its worthies. I assure you that I am none the worse for my
walk with you, but on all accounts the better. Methinks I am regaining
my health; but I would like to know first what it was that ailed me.

I have not yet conveyed your message to Mr. Hosmer,[60] but will not
fail to do so. That idea of occupying the old house is a good
one,--quite feasible,--and you could bring your hair pillow with you.
It is an _inn_ in Concord which I had not thought of,--a philosopher's
inn. That large chamber might make a man's idea expand proportionately.
It would be well to have an interest in some old chamber in a deserted
house in every part of the country which attracted us. There would be
no such place to receive one's guests as that. If old furniture is
fashionable, why not go the whole house at once? I shall endeavor to
make Mr. Hosmer believe that the old house is the chief attraction of
his farm, and that it is his duty to preserve it by all honest
appliances. You might take a lease of it _in perpetuo_, and done with
it.

I am so wedded to my way of spending a day,--require such broad
margins of leisure, and such a complete wardrobe of old clothes,--that
I am ill fitted for going abroad. Pleasant is it sometimes to sit at
home, on a single egg all day, in your own nest, though it may prove
at last to be an egg of chalk. The old coat that I wear is Concord; it
is my morning robe and study gown, my working dress and suit of
ceremony, and my nightgown after all. Cleave to the simplest ever.
Home,--home,--home. _Cars_ sound like _cares_ to me.

I am accustomed to think very long of going anywhere,--am slow to
move. I hope to hear a response of the oracle first. However, I think
that I will try the effect of your talisman on the iron horse next
Saturday, and dismount at Tarkiln Hill. Perhaps your sea air will be
good for me. I conveyed your invitation to Channing, but he apparently
will not come.

Excuse my not writing earlier; but I had not decided.


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, October 12, 1855.

MR. RICKETSON,--I fear that you had a lonely and disagreeable ride
back to New Bedford through the Carver woods and so on,--perhaps in
the rain, too, and I am in part answerable for it. I feel very much in
debt to you and your family for the pleasant days I spent at
Brooklawn. Tell Arthur and Walton[61] that the shells which they gave
me are spread out, and make quite a show to inland eyes. Methinks I
still hear the strains of the piano, the violin, and the flageolet
blended together. Excuse _me_ for the noise which I believe drove you
to take refuge in the shanty. That shanty is indeed a favorable place
to expand in, which I fear I did not enough improve.

On my way through Boston I inquired for Gilpin's works at Little,
Brown & Co.'s, Munroe's, Ticknor's, and Burnham's. They have not got
them. They told me at Little, Brown & Co.'s that his works (not
complete), in twelve vols., 8vo, were imported and sold in this
country five or six years ago for about fifteen dollars. Their terms
for importing are ten per cent on the cost. I copied from the "London
Catalogue of Books, 1846-51," at their shop, the following list of
Gilpin's Works:--

  Gilpin (Wm.), Dialogues on Various Subjects. 8vo. 9_s._      Cadell.

  ---- Essays on Picturesque Subjects. 8vo. 15_s._             Cadell.

  ---- Exposition of the New Testament. 2 vols. 8vo. 16_s._   Longman.

  ---- Forest Scenery, by Sir T. D. Lauder. 2 vols. 8vo. 18_s._
                                                            Smith & E.

  ---- Lectures on the Catechism. 12mo. 3_s._ 6_d._           Longman.

  ---- Lives of the Reformers. 2 vols. 12mo. 8_s._          Rivington.

  ---- Sermons Illustrative and Practical. 8vo. 12_s._       Hatchard.

  ---- Sermons to Country Congregations. 4 vols. 8vo. £1 16_s._
                                                              Longman.

  ---- Tour in Cambridge, Norfolk, etc. 8vo. 18_s._            Cadell.

  ---- Tour of the River Wye. 12mo. 4s. With plates. 8vo. 17_s._
                                                               Cadell.

  Gilpin (W. S. (?)), Hints on Landscape Gardening. Royal 8vo. £1.
                                                               Cadell.

Beside these, I remember to have read one volume on "Prints;" his
"Southern Tour" (1775); "Lakes of Cumberland," two vols.; "Highlands
of Scotland and West of England," two vols.--_N. B._ There _must_ be
plates in every volume.

I still see an image of those Middleborough ponds in my mind's eye, broad
shallow lakes, with an iron mine at the bottom,--comparatively unvexed
by sails,--only by Tom Smith and his squaw Sepit's "sharper." I find
my map of the State to be the best I have seen of that district. It is
a question whether the islands of Long Pond or Great Quitticus offer
the greatest attractions to a Lord of the Isles. That plant which I
found on the shore of Long Pond chances to be a rare and beautiful
flower,--the _Sabbatia chloroides_,--referred to Plymouth.

In a Description of Middleborough in the Hist. Coll., vol. iii, 1810,
signed Nehemiah Bennet, Middleborough, 1793, it is said: "There is on
the easterly shore of Assawampsitt Pond, on the shore of Betty's Neck,
two rocks which have curious marks thereon (supposed to be done by the
Indians), which appear like the steppings of a person with naked feet
which settled into the rocks; likewise the prints of a hand on several
places, with a number of other marks; also there is a rock on a high
hill a little to the eastward of the old stone fishing wear, where
there is the print of a person's hand in said rock."

It would be well to look at those rocks again more carefully; also at
the rock on the hill.

I should think that you would like to explore Snipatuit Pond in
Rochester,--it is so large and near. It is an interesting fact that
the alewives used to ascend to it,--if they do not still,--both from
Mattapoisett and through Great Quitticus.

There will be no trouble about the chamber in the old house, though,
as I told you, Mr. Hosmer _may_ expect some compensation for it. He
says, "Give my respects to Mr. Ricketson, and tell him that I cannot
be at a large expense to preserve an antiquity or curiosity. Nature
must do its work." "But," says I, "he asks you only not to assist
nature."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was on October 1 that Thoreau made this visit to New Bedford,
spending the best part of a week with his friends there. They sailed
about the bay and visited the ponds in Middleborough, and on Saturday,
October 6, he parted with Ricketson at Plymouth, and returned home. At
that time Ricketson proposed to return Thoreau's visit before October
20, but, in a note now lost, Thoreau sent him word that Channing had
left Concord, "perhaps for the winter." The visit was then given
up,--which accounts for the tone of Thoreau's next letter, of October
16.


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, October 16, 1855.

FRIEND RICKETSON,--I have got both your letters at once. You must not
think Concord so barren a place when Channing[62] is away. There are
the river and fields left yet; and I, though ordinarily a man of
business, should have some afternoons and evenings to spend with you,
I trust,--that is, if you could stand so much of me. If you can spend
your time profitably here, or without _ennui_, having an occasional
ramble or _tête-à-tête_ with one of the natives, it will give me
pleasure to have you in the neighborhood. You see I am preparing you
for our awful unsocial ways,--keeping in our dens a good part of the
day,--sucking our claws perhaps. But then we make a religion of it,
and that you cannot but respect.

If you know the taste of your own heart, and like it, come to Concord,
and I'll warrant you enough here to season the dish with,--aye, even
though Channing and Emerson and I were all away. We might paddle
quietly up the river. Then there are one or two more ponds to be seen,
etc.

I should very much enjoy further rambling with you in your vicinity,
but must postpone it for the present. To tell the truth, I am planning
to get seriously to work after these long months of inefficiency and
idleness. I do not know whether you are haunted by any such demon
which puts you on the alert to pluck the fruit of each day as it
passes, and store it safely in your bin. True, it is well to live
abandonedly from time to time; but to our working hours that must be
as the spile to the bung. So for a long season I must enjoy only a low
slanting gleam in my mind's eye from the Middleborough ponds far away.

Methinks I am getting a little more strength into those knees of mine;
and, for my part, I believe that God _does_ delight in the strength of
a man's legs.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, December 9, 1855.

MR. BLAKE,--Thank you! thank you for going a-wooding with me,--and
enjoying it,--for being warmed by my wood fire. I have indeed enjoyed
it much alone. I see how I might enjoy it yet more with company,--how
we might help each other to live. And to be admitted to Nature's
hearth costs nothing. None is excluded, but excludes himself. You have
only to push aside the curtain.

I am glad to hear that you were there too. There are many more such
voyages, and longer ones, to be made on that river, for it is the water
of life. The Ganges is nothing to it. Observe its reflections,--no
idea but is familiar to it. That river, though to dull eyes it seems
terrestrial wholly, flows through Elysium. What powers bathe in it
invisible to villagers! Talk of its shallowness,--that hay-carts can
be driven through it at midsummer; its depth passeth my understanding.
If, forgetting the allurements of the world, I could drink deeply
enough of it; if, cast adrift from the shore, I could with complete
integrity float on it, I should never be seen on the Mill-Dam
again.[63] If there is any depth in me, there is a corresponding depth
in it. It is the cold blood of the gods. I paddle and bathe in their
artery.

I do not want a stick of wood for so trivial a use as to burn even,
but they get it overnight, and carve and gild it that it may please my
eye. What persevering lovers they are! What infinite pains to attract
and delight us! They will supply us with fagots wrapped in the
daintiest packages, and freight paid; sweet-scented woods, and
bursting into flower, and resounding as if Orpheus had just left
them,--these shall be our fuel, and we still prefer to chaffer with
the wood-merchant!

The jug we found still stands draining bottom up on the bank, on the
sunny side of the house. That river,--who shall say exactly whence it
came, and whither it goes? Does aught that flows come from a higher
source? Many things drift downward on its surface which would enrich a
man. If you could only be on the alert all day, and every day! And the
nights are as long as the days.

Do you not think you could contrive thus to get woody fibre enough to
bake your wheaten bread with? Would you not perchance have tasted the
sweet crust of another kind of bread in the meanwhile, which ever
hangs ready baked on the bread-fruit trees of the world?

Talk of burning your smoke after the wood has been consumed! There is
a far more important and warming heat, commonly lost, which precedes
the burning of the wood. It is the smoke of industry, which is
incense. I had been so thoroughly warmed in body and spirit, that when
at length my fuel was housed, I came near selling it to the ash-man,
as if I had extracted all its heat.

You should have been here to help me get in my boat. The last time I
used it, November 27th, paddling up the Assabet, I saw a great round
pine log sunk deep in the water, and with labor got it aboard. When I
was floating this home so gently, it occurred to me why I had found
it. It was to make wheels with to roll my boat into winter quarters
upon. So I sawed off two thick rollers from one end, pierced them for
wheels, and then of a joist which I had found drifting on the river in
the summer I made an axletree, and on this I rolled my boat out.

Miss Mary Emerson[64] is here,--the youngest person in Concord, though
about eighty,--and the most apprehensive of a genuine thought; earnest
to know of your inner life; most stimulating society; and exceedingly
witty withal. She says they called her old when she was young, and she
has never grown any older. I wish you could see her.

My books[65] did not arrive till November 30th, the cargo of the Asia
having been complete when they reached Liverpool. I have arranged them
in a case which I made in the meanwhile, partly of river boards. I
have not dipped far into the new ones yet. One is splendidly bound and
illuminated. They are in English, French, Latin, Greek, and Sanscrit.
I have not made out the significance of this godsend yet.

Farewell, and bright dreams to you!


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, December 25, 1855.

FRIEND RICKETSON,--Though you have not shown your face here, I trust
that you did not interpret my last note to my disadvantage. I remember
that, among other things, I wished to break it to you, that, owing to
engagements, I should not be able to show you so much attention as I
could wish, or as you had shown to me. How we did scour over the
country! I hope your horse will live as long as one which I hear just
died in the south of France at the age of forty. Yet I had no doubt
you would get quite enough of me. Do not give it up so easily. The old
house is still empty, and Hosmer is easy to treat with.

Channing was here about ten days ago. I told him of my visit to you,
and that he too must go and see you and your country.[66] This may
have suggested his writing to you.

That island lodge, especially for some weeks in a summer, and new
explorations in your vicinity, are certainly very alluring; but _such
are my engagements to myself_, that I dare not promise to wend your
way, but will for the present only heartily thank you for your kind
and generous offer. When my vacation comes, then look out.

My legs have grown considerably stronger, and that is all that ails
me.

But I wish now above all to inform you,--though I suppose you will not
be particularly interested,--that Cholmondeley has gone to the Crimea,
"a complete soldier," with a design, when he returns, if he ever
returns, to buy a cottage in the South of England, and tempt me over;
but that, before going, he busied himself in buying, and has caused to
be forwarded to me by Chapman, a royal gift, in the shape of
twenty-one distinct works (one in nine volumes,--forty-four volumes in
all), almost exclusively relating to ancient Hindoo literature, and
scarcely one of them to be bought in America.[67] I am familiar with
many of them, and know how to prize them. I send you information of
this as I might of the birth of a child.

Please remember me to all your family.

       *       *       *       *       *

On the date of Thoreau's letter of December 25, 1855, another event
occurred, of some note in these annals of friendship. Channing, from
his Dorchester abode, suddenly showed himself at Ricketson's door. "I
had just written his name when old Ranger announced him.... He arrived
on Christmas day" (as Thoreau had done the year before) "and his first
salutation on meeting me at the front door of my house was, 'That's
your shanty,' pointing towards it. He is engaged with the editor of
the N. B. _Mercury_, and boards in town, but whereabout I have not yet
[February 26, 1856] discovered. He usually spends Saturday and a part
of Sunday with me." In replying to this information, Thoreau gives
that admirable character of his poet neighbor which has often been
quoted.


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, March 5, 1856.

FRIEND RICKETSON,--I have been out of town, else I should have
acknowledged your letter before. Though not in the best mood for
writing, I will say what I can now. You plainly have a rare, though a
cheap, resource in your shanty. Perhaps the time will come when every
country-seat will have one,--when every country-seat will _be one_. I
would advise you to see that shanty business out, though you go
shanty-mad. Work your vein till it is exhausted, or conducts you to a
broader one; so that Channing shall stand before your shanty, and say,
"That is your house."

This has indeed been a grand winter for me, and for all of us. I am
not considering how much I have enjoyed it. What matters it how happy
or unhappy we have been, if we have minded our business and advanced
our affairs? I have made it a part of my business to wade in the snow
and take the measure of the ice. The ice on one of our ponds was just
two feet thick on the first of March; and I have to-day been surveying
a wood-lot, where I sank about two feet at every step.

It is high time that you, fanned by the warm breezes of the Gulf
Stream, had begun to "_lay_" for even the Concord hens have, though
one wonders where they find the raw material of egg-shell here. Beware
how you put off your laying to any later spring, else your cackling
will not have the inspiring early spring sound.

I was surprised to hear the other day that Channing was in New
Bedford. When he was here last (in December, I think), he said, like
himself, in answer to my inquiry where he lived, "that he did not know
the name of the place;" so it has remained in a degree of obscurity to
me. As you have made it certain to me that he is in New Bedford,
perhaps I can return the favor by putting you on the track to his
boarding-house there. Mrs. Arnold told Mrs. Emerson where it was; and
the latter thinks, though she may be mistaken, that it was at a Mrs.
Lindsay's.

I am rejoiced to hear that you are getting on so bravely with him and
his verses. He and I, as you know, have been old cronies,[68]--

     "Fed the same flock, by fountain, shade, and rill,
     Together both, ere the high lawns appeared
     Under the opening eyelids of the morn,
     We drove afield, and both together heared," etc.

"But O, the heavy change," now he is gone. The Channing you have seen
and described is the real Simon Pure. You have seen him. Many a good
ramble may you have together! You will see in him still more of the
same kind to attract and to puzzle you. How to serve him most
effectually has long been a problem with his friends. Perhaps it is
left for you to solve it. I suspect that the most that you or any one
can do for him is to appreciate his genius,--to buy and read, and
cause others to buy and read, his poems. That is the hand which he has
put forth to the world,--take hold of that. Review them if you
can,--perhaps take the risk of publishing something more which he may
write. Your knowledge of Cowper will help you to know Channing. He
will accept sympathy and aid, but he will not bear questioning, unless
the aspects of the sky are particularly auspicious. He will ever be
"reserved and enigmatic," and you must deal with him at arm's length.

I have no secrets to tell you concerning him, and do not wish to call
obvious excellences and defects by far-fetched names. I think I have
already spoken to you more, and more to the purpose, on this theme,
than I am likely to write now; nor need I suggest how witty and poetic
he is, and what an inexhaustible fund of good fellowship you will find
in him.

As for visiting you in April, though I am inclined enough to take some
more rambles in your neighborhood, especially by the seaside, I dare
not engage myself, nor allow you to expect me. The truth is, I have my
enterprises now as ever, at which I tug with ridiculous feebleness,
but admirable perseverance, and cannot say when I shall be
sufficiently fancy-free for such an excursion.

You have done well to write a lecture on Cowper. In the expectation of
getting you to read it here, I applied to the curators of our
Lyceum;[69] but, alas, our Lyceum has been a failure this winter for
want of funds. It ceased some weeks since, with a debt, they tell me,
to be carried over to the next year's account. Only one more lecture
is to be read by a Signor Somebody, an Italian, paid for by private
subscription, as a deed of charity to the lecturer. They are not rich
enough to offer you your expenses even, though probably a month or two
ago they would have been glad of the chance.

However, the old house has not failed yet. That offers you lodging for
an indefinite time after you get into it; and in the meanwhile I offer
you bed and board in my father's house,--always excepting hair pillows
and new-fangled bedding.

Remember me to your family.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, March 13, 1856.

MR. BLAKE,--It is high time I sent you a word. I have not heard from
Harrisburg since offering to go there, and have not been invited to
lecture anywhere else the past winter. So you see I am fast growing
rich. This is quite right, for such is my relation to the
lecture-goers, I should be surprised and alarmed if there were any
great call for me. I confess that I am considerably alarmed even when
I hear that an individual wishes to meet me, for my experience teaches
me that we shall thus only be made certain of a mutual strangeness,
which otherwise we might never have been aware of.

I have not yet recovered strength enough for such a walk as you
propose, though pretty well again for circumscribed rambles and
chamber work. Even now, I am probably the greatest walker in
Concord,--to its disgrace be it said. I remember our walks and talks
and sailing in the past with great satisfaction, and trust that we
shall have more of them ere long,--have more woodings-up,--for even in
the spring we must still seek "fuel to maintain our fires."

As you suggest, we would fain value one another for what we are
absolutely, rather than relatively. How will this do for a symbol of
sympathy?

                  / *  *  *  * \
                 /   *  *  *    \
                /      *  *      \
               A                  B

As for compliments, even the stars praise me, and I praise them. They
and I sometimes belong to a mutual admiration society. Is it not so
with you? I know you of old. Are you not tough and earnest to be
talked at, praised, or blamed? Must _you_ go out of the room because
you are the subject of conversation? Where will you go to, pray? Shall
we look into the "Letter Writer" to see what compliments are
admissible? I am not afraid of praise, for I have practiced it on
myself. As for my deserts, I never took an account of that stock, and
in this connection care not whether I am deserving or not. When I hear
praise coming, do I not elevate and arch myself to hear it like the
sky, and as impersonally? Think I appropriate any of it to my weak
legs? No. Praise away _till all is blue_.

I see by the newspapers that the season for making sugar is at hand.
Now is the time, whether you be rock, or white maple, or hickory. I
trust that you have prepared a store of sap-tubs and sumach spouts,
and invested largely in kettles. Early the first frosty morning, tap
your maples,--the sap will not run in summer, you know. It matters not
how little juice you get, if you get all you can, and boil it down. I
made just one crystal of sugar once, one twentieth of an inch cube,
out of a pumpkin, and it sufficed. Though the yield be no greater than
that, this is not less the season for it, and it will be not the less
sweet, nay, it will be infinitely the sweeter.

Shall, then, the maple yield sugar, and not man? Shall the farmer be
thus active, and surely have so much sugar to show for it, before this
very March is gone,--while I read the newspaper? While he works in his
sugar-camp let me work in mine,--for sweetness is in me, and to sugar
it shall come,--it shall not all go to leaves and wood. Am I not a
_sugar maple_ man, then? Boil down the sweet sap which the spring
causes to flow within you. Stop not at syrup,--go on to sugar, though
you present the world with but a single crystal,--a crystal not made
from trees in your yard, but from the new life that stirs in your
pores. Cheerfully skim your kettle, and watch it set and crystallize,
making a holiday of it if you will. Heaven will be propitious to you
as to him.

Say to the farmer: There is your crop; here is mine. Mine is a sugar
to sweeten sugar with. If you will listen to me, I will sweeten your
whole load,--your whole life.

Then will the callers ask, Where is Blake? He is in his sugar-camp on
the mountainside. Let the world await him. Then will the little boys
bless you, and the great boys too, for such sugar is the origin of
many condiments,--Blakians in the shops of Worcester, of new form,
with their mottoes wrapped up in them. Shall men taste only the
sweetness of the maple and the cane the coming year?

A walk over the crust to Asnebumskit, standing there in its inviting
simplicity, is tempting to think of,--making a fire on the snow under
some rock! The very poverty of outward nature implies an inward wealth
in the walker. What a Golconda is he conversant with, thawing his
fingers over such a blaze! But--but--

Have you read the new poem, "The Angel in the House"? Perhaps you will
find it good for you.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, May 21, 1856.

MR. BLAKE,--I have not for a long time been _putting such thoughts
together_ as I should like to read to the company you speak of. I have
enough of that sort to say, or even read, but not time now to arrange
it. Something I have prepared might prove for their entertainment or
refreshment perchance; but I would not like to have a hat carried
round for it. I have just been reading some papers to see if they
would do for your company; but though I thought pretty well of them as
long as I read them to myself, when I got an auditor to try them on, I
felt that they would not answer. How could I let you drum up a company
to hear them? In fine, what I have is either too scattered or loosely
arranged, or too light, or else is too scientific and matter-of-fact
(I run a good deal into that of late) for so hungry a company.

I am still a learner, not a teacher, feeding somewhat omnivorously,
browsing both stalk and leaves; but I shall perhaps be enabled to
speak with the more precision and authority by and by,--if philosophy
and sentiment are not buried under a multitude of details.

I do not refuse, but accept your invitation, only changing the time. I
consider myself invited to Worcester once for all, and many thanks to
the inviter. As for the Harvard excursion,[70] will you let me suggest
another? Do you and Brown come to Concord on Saturday, if the weather
promises well, and spend the Sunday here on the river or hills, or
both. So we shall save some of our money (which is of next importance
to our souls), and lose--I do not know what. You say you _talked_ of
coming here before; now _do_ it. I do not propose this because I think
that I am worth your spending time with, but because I hope that we
may prove flint and steel to one another. It is at most only an hour's
ride farther, and you can at any rate do what you please when you get
here.

Then we will see if we have any apology to offer for our existence. So
come to Concord,--come to Concord,--come to Concord! or--your suit
shall be defaulted.

As for the dispute about solitude and society, any comparison is
impertinent. It is an idling down on the plane at the base of a
mountain, instead of climbing steadily to its top. Of course you will
be glad of all the society you can get to go up with. Will you go to
glory with me? is the burden of the song. I love society so much that
I swallowed it all at a gulp,--that is, all that came in my way. It is
not that we love to be alone, but that we love to soar, and when we do
soar, the company grows thinner and thinner till there is none at all.
It is either the _Tribune_[71] on the plain, a sermon on the mount, or
a very private ecstasy still higher up. We are not the less to aim at
the summits, though the multitude does not ascend them. Use all the
society that will abet you. But perhaps I do not enter into the spirit
of your talk.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the spring of 1856, Mr. Alcott, then living in Walpole, N. H.,
visited Concord, and while there suggested to Thoreau that the upper
valley of the Connecticut, in which Walpole lies, was good
walking-ground, and that he would be glad to see him there. When
autumn began to hover in the distance, Thoreau recalled this
invitation, and sent the letter below.


TO BRONSON ALCOTT (AT WALPOLE, N. H.).

     CONCORD, SEPTEMBER 1, 1856.

MR. ALCOTT,--I remember that, in the spring, you invited me to visit
you. I feel inclined to spend a day or two with you and on your hills
at this season, returning, perhaps, by way of Brattleboro. What if I
should take the cars for Walpole next Friday morning? Are you at home?
And will it be convenient and agreeable to you to see me then? I will
await an answer.

I am but poor company, and it will not be worth the while to put
yourself out on my account; yet from time to time I have some thoughts
which would be the better for an airing. I also wish to get some hints
from September on the Connecticut to help me understand that season on
the Concord; to snuff the musty fragrance of the decaying year in the
primitive woods. There is considerable cellar-room in my nature for
such stores; a whole row of bins waiting to be filled, before I can
celebrate my Thanksgiving. Mould is the richest of soils, yet _I_ am
not mould. It will always be found that one flourishing institution
exists and battens on another mouldering one. The Present itself is
parasitic to this extent.

     Your fellow-traveler,
     HENRY D. THOREAU.

As fortune would have it, Mr. Alcott was then making his arrangements
for a conversational tour in the vicinity of New York; but he renewed
the invitation for himself, while repeating it in the name of Mrs.
Alcott and his daughters. Thoreau made the visit, I believe, and some
weeks later, at the suggestion of Mr. Alcott, he was asked by Marcus
Spring of New York to give lectures and survey their estate for a
community at Perth Amboy, N. J., in which Mr. Spring and his friends,
the Birneys, Welds, Grimkés, etc., had united for social and
educational purposes. It was a colony of radical opinions and
old-fashioned culture; the Grimkés having been bred in Charleston, S.
C., which they left by reason of their opposition to negro slavery,
and the elder Birney having held slaves in Alabama until his
conscience bade him emancipate them, after which he, too, could have
no secure home among slaveholders. He was the first presidential
candidate of the voting Abolitionists, as Lincoln was the last; and
his friend, Theodore Weld, who married Miss Grimké, had been one of
the early apostles of emancipation in Ohio. Their circle at Eagleswood
appealed to Thoreau's sense of humor, and is described by him in a
letter soon to be given.

       *       *       *       *       *

In June, 1856, Thoreau made a long visit at Brooklawn. In August, Mr.
Ricketson, who had proposed a summer visit to Concord, found himself
prevented by feeble health, and received the two following letters
from Thoreau:--


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, September 2, 1856.

FRIEND RICKETSON,--My father and mother regret that your indisposition
is likely to prevent your coming to Concord at present. It is as well
that you do not, if you depend on seeing me, for I expect to go to New
Hampshire the latter part of the week. I shall be glad to see you
afterward, if you are prepared for and can endure my unsocial habits.

I would suggest that you have one or two of the teeth which you can
best spare extracted at once, for the sake of your general, no less
than particular health. This is the advice of one who has had quite
his share of toothache in this world. I am a trifle stouter than when
I saw you last, yet far, far short of my best estate.

I thank you for two newspapers which you have sent me; am glad to see
that you have studied out the history of the ponds, got the Indian
names straightened,--which means made more crooked,--etc., etc. I
remember them with great satisfaction. They are all the more
interesting to me for the lean and sandy soil that surrounds them.
Heaven is not one of your fertile Ohio bottoms, you may depend on it.
Ah, the Middleborough ponds!--Great Platte lakes. Remember me to the
perch in them. I trust that I may have some better craft than that
oarless pumpkin-seed[72] the next time I navigate them.

From the size of your family I infer that Mrs. Ricketson and your
daughters have returned from Franconia. Please remember me to them,
and also to Arthur and Walton; and tell the latter that if, in the
course of his fishing, he should chance to come across the shell of a
terrapin, and will save it for me, I shall be exceedingly obliged to
him.

Channing dropped in on us the other day, but soon dropped out again.


     CONCORD, September 23, 1856.

FRIEND RICKETSON,--I have returned from New Hampshire, and find myself
_in statu quo_. My journey proved one of business purely. As you
suspected, I saw Alcott, and I spoke to him of you, and your good will
toward him; so now you may consider yourself introduced. He would be
glad to hear from you about a conversation in New Bedford. He was
about setting out on a conversing tour to Fitchburg, Worcester, and,
three or four weeks hence, Waterbury, Ct., New York, Newport (?) or
Providence (?). You may be sure that you will not have occasion to
repent of any exertions which you may make to secure an audience for
him. I send you one of his programmes, lest he should not have done so
himself.

You propose to me teaching the following winter. I find that I cannot
entertain the idea. It would require such a revolution of all my
habits, I think, and would sap the very foundations of me. I am
engaged to Concord and my own private pursuits by 10,000 ties, and it
would be suicide to rend them. If I were weaker, and not somewhat
stronger, physically, I should be more tempted. I am so busy that I
cannot even think of visiting you. The days are not long enough, or I
am not strong enough to do the work of the day, before bedtime.

Excuse my paper. It chances to be the best I have.

       *       *       *       *       *

In October, 1856, Mr. Spring, whom Mr. Alcott was then visiting, wrote
to Thoreau inviting him to come to Eagleswood, give lectures, and
survey two hundred acres of land belonging to the community, laying
out streets and making a map of the proposed village. Thoreau accepted
the proposal, and soon after wrote the following letter, which Miss
Thoreau submitted to Mr. Emerson for publication, with other letters,
in the volume of 1865; but he returned it, inscribed, "Not printable
at present." The lapse of time has removed this objection.


TO SOPHIA THOREAU.

     [Direct] EAGLESWOOD, PERTH AMBOY, N. J.,
     Saturday eve, November 1, 1856.

DEAR SOPHIA,--I have hardly had time and repose enough to write to you
before. I spent the afternoon of Friday (it seems some months ago) in
Worcester, but failed to see [Harrison] Blake, he having "gone to the
horse-race" in Boston; to atone for which I have just received a
letter from him, asking me to stop at Worcester and lecture on my
return. I called on [Theo.] Brown and [T. W.] Higginson; in the
evening came by way of Norwich to New York in the steamer
Commonwealth, and, though it was so windy inland, had a perfectly
smooth passage, and about as good a sleep as usually at home. Reached
New York about seven A. M., too late for the John Potter (there was n't
any Jonas), so I spent the forenoon there, called on Greeley (who was
not in), met [F. A. T.] Bellew in Broadway and walked into his
workshop, read at the Astor Library, etc. I arrived here, about thirty
miles from New York, about five P. M. Saturday, in company with Miss
E. Peabody, who was returning in the same covered wagon from the
Landing to Eagleswood, which last place she has just left for the
winter.

This is a queer place. There is one large long stone building, which
cost some forty thousand dollars, in which I do not know exactly who
or how many work (one or two familiar places and more familiar names
have turned up), a few shops and offices, an old farmhouse, and Mr.
Spring's perfectly private residence, within twenty rods of the main
building. The city of Perth Amboy is about as big as Concord, and
Eagleswood is one and a quarter miles southwest of it, on the Bay
side. The central fact here is evidently Mr. [Theodore] Weld's school,
recently established, around which various other things revolve.
Saturday evening I went to the schoolroom, hall, or what not, to see
the children and their teachers and patrons dance. Mr. Weld, a
kind-looking man with a long white beard, danced with them, and Mr.
[E. J.] Cutler, his assistant (lately from Cambridge, who is
acquainted with Sanborn), Mr. Spring, and others. This Saturday
evening dance is a regular thing, and it is thought something strange
if you don't attend. They take it for granted that you want society!

Sunday forenoon I attended a sort of Quaker meeting at the same place
(the Quaker aspect and spirit prevail here,--Mrs. Spring says, "Does
thee not?"), where it was expected that the Spirit would move me (I
having been previously spoken to about it); and it, or something else,
did,--an inch or so. I said just enough to set them a little by the
ears and make it lively. I had excused myself by saying that I could
not adapt myself to a particular audience; for all the speaking and
lecturing here have reference to the children, who are far the greater
part of the audience, and they are not so bright as New England
children. Imagine them sitting close to the wall, all around a hall,
with old Quaker-looking men and women here and there. There sat Mrs.
Weld [Grimké] and her sister, two elderly gray-headed ladies, the
former in extreme Bloomer costume, which was what you may call
remarkable; Mr. Arnold Buffum, with broad face and a great white
beard, looking like a pier-head made of the cork-tree with the bark
on, as if he could buffet a considerable wave; James G. Birney,
formerly candidate for the presidency, with another particularly white
head and beard; Edward Palmer, the anti-money man (for whom
communities were made), with his ample beard somewhat grayish. Some of
them, I suspect, are very worthy people. Of course you are wondering
to what extent all these make one family, and to what extent twenty.
Mrs. Kirkland[73] (and this a name only to me) I saw. She has just
bought a lot here. They all know more about your neighbors and
acquaintances than you suspected.

On Monday evening I read the moose story to the children, to their
satisfaction. Ever since I have been constantly engaged in surveying
Eagleswood,--through woods, salt marshes, and along the shore, dodging
the tide, through bushes, mud, and beggar-ticks, having no time to
look up or think where I am. (It takes ten or fifteen minutes before
each meal to pick the beggar-ticks out of my clothes; burs and the
rest are left, and rents mended at the first convenient opportunity.)
I shall be engaged perhaps as much longer. Mr. Spring wants me to help
him about setting out an orchard and vineyard, Mr. Birney asks me to
survey a small piece for him, and Mr. Alcott, who has just come down
here for the third Sunday, says that Greeley (I left my name for him)
invites him and me to go to his home with him next Saturday morning
and spend the Sunday.

It seems a twelvemonth since I was not here, but I hope to get settled
deep into my den again ere long. The hardest thing to find here is
solitude--and Concord. I am at Mr. Spring's house. Both he and she and
their family are quite agreeable.

I want you to write to me immediately (just left off to talk French
with the servant man), and let father and mother put in a word. To
them and to Aunts, love from

     HENRY.

The date of this visit to Eagleswood is worthy of note, because in
that November Thoreau made the acquaintance of the late Walt Whitman,
in whom he ever after took a deep interest. Accompanied by Mr. Alcott,
he called on Whitman, then living at Brooklyn; and I remember the calm
enthusiasm with which they both spoke of Whitman upon their return to
Concord. "Three men," said Emerson, in his funeral eulogy of Thoreau,
"have of late years strongly impressed Mr. Thoreau,--John Brown, his
Indian guide in Maine, Joe Polis, and a third person, not known to
this audience." This last was Whitman, who has since become well known
to a larger audience.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     EAGLESWOOD, N. J., November 19, 1856.

MR. BLAKE,--I have been here much longer than I expected, but have
deferred answering you, because I could not foresee when I should
return. I do not know yet within three or four days. This uncertainty
makes it impossible for me to appoint a day to meet you, until it
should be too late to hear from you again. I think, therefore, that I
must go straight home. I feel some objection to reading that "What
shall it profit" lecture again in Worcester; but if you are quite sure
that it will be worth the while (it is a grave consideration), I will
even make an independent journey from Concord for that purpose. I have
read three of my old lectures (that included) to the Eagleswood
people, and, unexpectedly, with rare success,--_i. e._, I was aware
that what I was saying was silently taken in by their ears.

You must excuse me if I write mainly a business letter now, for I am
sold for the time,--am merely Thoreau the surveyor here,--and
solitude is scarcely obtainable in these parts.

Alcott has been here three times, and, Saturday before last, I went
with him and Greeley, by invitation of the last, to G.'s farm,
thirty-six miles north of New York. The next day A. and I heard
Beecher preach; and what was more, we visited Whitman the next morning
(A. had already seen him), and were much interested and provoked. He
is apparently the greatest democrat the world has seen. Kings and
aristocracy go by the board at once, as they have long deserved to. A
remarkably strong though coarse nature, of a sweet disposition, and
much prized by his friends. Though peculiar and rough in his exterior,
his skin (all over (?)) red, he is essentially a gentleman. I am still
somewhat in a quandary about him,--feel that he is essentially strange
to me, at any rate; but I am surprised by the sight of him. He is very
broad, but, as I have said, not fine. He said that I misapprehended
him. I am not quite sure that I do. He told us that he loved to ride
up and down Broadway all day on an omnibus, sitting beside the driver,
listening to the roar of the carts, and sometimes gesticulating and
declaiming Homer at the top of his voice. He has long been an editor
and writer for the newspapers,--was editor of the _New Orleans
Crescent_ once; but now has no employment but to read and write in the
forenoon, and walk in the afternoon, like all the rest of the
scribbling gentry.

I shall probably be in Concord next week; so you can direct to me
there.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, December 6, 1853.

MR. BLAKE,--I trust that you got a note from me at Eagleswood, about a
fortnight ago. I passed through Worcester on the morning of the 25th
of November, and spent several hours (from 3.30 to 6.20) in the
travelers' room at the depot, as in a dream, it now seems. As the
first Harlem train unexpectedly connected with the first from
Fitchburg, I did not spend the forenoon with you as I had anticipated,
on account of baggage, etc. If it had been a seasonable hour, I should
have seen you,--_i. e._, if you had not gone to a horse-race. But
think of making a call at half past three in the morning! (would it
not have implied a three-o'clock-in-the-morning courage in both you
and me?) as it were, ignoring the fact that mankind are really not at
home,--are not out, but so deeply in that they cannot be seen,--nearly
half their hours at this season of the year.

I walked up and down the main street, at half past five, in the dark,
and paused long in front of Brown's store, trying to distinguish its
features; considering whether I might safely leave his _Putnam_ in the
door-handle, but concluded not to risk it. Meanwhile a watchman (?)
seemed to be watching me, and I moved off. Took another turn around
there, and had the very earliest offer of the _Transcript_[74] from an
urchin behind, whom I actually could not see, it was so dark. So I
withdrew, wondering if you and B. would know if I had been there. You
little dream who is occupying Worcester when you are all asleep.
Several things occurred there that night which I will venture to say
were not put into the _Transcript_. A cat caught a mouse at the depot,
and gave it to her kitten to play with. So that world-famous tragedy
goes on by night as well as by day, and nature is _emphatically_
wrong. Also I saw a young Irishman kneel before his mother, as if in
prayer, while she wiped a cinder out of his eye with her tongue; and I
found that it was never too late (or early?) to learn something. These
things transpired while you and B. were, to all practical purposes,
nowhere, and good for nothing,--not even for society,--not for
horse-races,--nor the taking back of a _Putnam's Magazine_. It is
true, I might have recalled you to life, but it would have been a
cruel act, considering the kind of life you would have come back to.

However, I would fain write to you now by broad daylight, and report
to you some of my life, such as it is, and recall you to your life,
which is not always lived by you, even by daylight. Blake! Brown! are
you awake? are you aware what an ever-glorious morning this is,--what
long-expected, never-to-be-repeated opportunity is now offered to get
life and knowledge?

For my part, I am trying to wake up,--to wring slumber out of my
pores; for, generally, I take events as unconcernedly as a
fence-post,--absorb wet and cold like it, and am pleasantly tickled
with lichens slowly spreading over me. Could I not be content, then,
to be a cedar post, which lasts twenty-five years? Would I not rather
be that than the farmer that set it? or he that preaches to the
farmer? and go to the heaven of posts at last? I think I should like
that as well as any would like it. But I should not care if I sprouted
into a living tree, put forth leaves and flowers, and bore fruit.

I am grateful for what I am and have. My thanksgiving is perpetual. It
is surprising how contented one can be with nothing definite,--only a
sense of existence. Well, anything for variety. I am ready to try this
for the next ten thousand years, and exhaust it. How sweet to think
of! my extremities well charred, and my intellectual part too, so that
there is no danger of worm or rot for a long while. My breath is sweet
to me. O how I laugh when I think of my vague, indefinite riches. No
run on my bank can drain it, for my wealth is not possession but
enjoyment.

What are all these years made for? and now another winter comes, so
much like the last? Can't we satisfy the beggars once for all?

Have you got in your wood for this winter? What else have you got in?
Of what use a great fire on the hearth, and a confounded little fire
in the heart? Are you prepared to make a decisive campaign,--to pay
for your costly tuition,--to pay for the suns of past summers,--for
happiness and unhappiness lavished upon you?

Does not Time go by swifter than the swiftest equine trotter or
racker?

Stir up Brown. Remind him of his duties, which outrun the date and
span of Worcester's years past and to come. Tell him to be sure that
he is on the main street, however narrow it may be, and to have a lit
sign, visible by night as well as by day.

Are they not patient waiters,--they who wait for us? But even they
shall not be losers.


     December 7.

That Walt Whitman, of whom I wrote to you, is the most interesting
fact to me at present. I have just read his second edition (which he
gave me), and it has done me more good than any reading for a long
time. Perhaps I remember best the poem of Walt Whitman, an American,
and the Sun-Down Poem. There are two or three pieces in the book which
are disagreeable, to say the least; simply sensual. He does not
celebrate love at all. It is as if the beasts spoke. I think that men
have not been ashamed of themselves without reason. No doubt there
have always been dens where such deeds were unblushingly recited, and
it is no merit to compete with their inhabitants. But even on this
side he has spoken more truth than any American or modern that I know.
I have found his poem exhilarating, encouraging. As for its
sensuality,--and it may turn out to be less sensual than it
appears,--I do not so much wish that those parts were not written, as
that men and women were so pure that they could read them without
harm, that is, without understanding them. One woman told me that no
woman could read it,--as if a man could read what a woman could not.
Of course Walt Whitman can communicate to us no experience, and if we
are shocked, whose experience is it that we are reminded of?

On the whole, it sounds to me very brave and American, after whatever
deductions. I do not believe that all the sermons, so called, that
have been preached in this land put together are equal to it for
preaching.

We ought to rejoice greatly in him. He occasionally suggests something
a little more than human. You can't confound him with the other
inhabitants of Brooklyn or New York. How they must shudder when they
read him! He is awfully good.

To be sure I sometimes feel a little imposed on. By his heartiness and
broad generalities he puts me into a liberal frame of mind prepared to
see wonders,--as it were, sets me upon a hill or in the midst of a
plain,--stirs me well up, and then--throws in a thousand of brick.
Though rude, and sometimes ineffectual, it is a great primitive
poem,--an alarum or trumpet-note ringing through the American camp.
Wonderfully like the Orientals, too, considering that when I asked him
if he had read them, he answered, "No: tell me about them."

I did not get far in conversation with him,--two more being
present,--and among the few things which I chanced to say, I remember
that one was, in answer to him as representing America, that I did not
think much of America or of politics, and so on, which may have been
somewhat of a damper to him.

Since I have seen him, I find that I am not disturbed by any brag or
egoism in his book. He may turn out the least of a braggart of all,
having a better right to be confident.

He is a great fellow.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is in Alcott's diary an account of this interview with Whitman,
and the Sunday morning in Ward Beecher's Brooklyn church, from which a
few passages may be taken. Hardly any person met by either of these
Concord friends in their later years made so deep an impression on
both as did this then almost unknown poet and thinker, concerning whom
Cholmondeley wrote to Thoreau in 1857: "Is there actually such a man
as Whitman? Has any one seen or handled him? His is a tongue 'not
understanded' of the English people. I find _the gentleman_ altogether
left out of the book. It is the first book I have ever seen which I
should call a 'new book.'"

Mr. Alcott writes under date of November 7, 1856, in New York: "Henry
Thoreau arrives from Eagleswood, and sees Swinton, a wise young
Scotchman, and Walt Whitman's friend, at my room (15 Laight
Street),--Thoreau declining to accompany me to Mrs. Botta's parlors,
as invited by her. He sleeps here. (November 8.) We find Greeley at
the Harlem station, and ride with him to his farm, where we pass the
day, and return to sleep in the city,--Greeley coming in with us;
Alice Cary, the authoress, accompanying us also. (Sunday, November 9.)
We cross the ferry to Brooklyn, and hear Ward Beecher at the Plymouth
Church. It was a spectacle,--and himself the preacher, if preacher
there be anywhere now in pulpits. His auditors had to weep, had to
laugh, under his potent magnetism, while his doctrine of justice to
all men, bond and free, was grand. House, entries, aisles, galleries,
all were crowded. Thoreau called it pagan, but I pronounced it good,
very good,--the best I had witnessed for many a day, and hopeful for
the coming time. At dinner at Mrs. Manning's. Miss M. S. was there,
curious to see Thoreau. After dinner we called on Walt Whitman
(Thoreau and I), but finding him out, we got all we could from his
mother, a stately, sensible matron, believing absolutely in Walter,
and telling us how good he was, and how wise when a boy; and how his
four brothers and two sisters loved him, and still take counsel of the
great man he has grown to be. We engaged to call again early in the
morning, when she said Walt would be glad to see us. (Monday, 10th.)
Mrs. Tyndale of Philadelphia goes with us to see Walt,--Walt the
satyr, the Bacchus, the very god Pan. We sat with him for two hours,
and much to our delight; he promising to call on us at the
International at ten in the morning to-morrow, and there have the rest
of it." Whitman failed to call at his hour the next day.


TO B. B. WILEY (AT CHICAGO).

     CONCORD, December 12, 1856.

MR. WILEY,[75]--It is refreshing to hear of your earnest purpose with
respect to your culture, and I can send you no better wish than that
you may not be thwarted by the cares and temptations of life. Depend
on it, _now_ is the accepted time, and probably you will never find
yourself better disposed or freer to attend to your culture than at
this moment. When _They_ who inspire us with the idea are ready, shall
not we be ready also?

I do not remember anything which Confucius has said directly
respecting man's "origin, purpose, and destiny." He was more practical
than that. He is full of wisdom applied to human relations,--to the
private life,--the family,--government, etc. It is remarkable that,
according to his own account, the sum and substance of his teaching
is, as you know, to do as you would be done by.

He also said (I translate from the French), "Conduct yourself suitably
towards the persons of your family, then you will be able to instruct
and to direct a nation of men."

"To nourish one's self with a little rice, to drink water, to have
only his bended arm to support his head, is a state which has also its
satisfaction. To be rich and honored by iniquitous means is for me as
the floating cloud which passes."

"As soon as a child is born he must respect its faculties: the
knowledge which will come to it by and by does not resemble at all its
present state. If it arrive at the age of forty or fifty years without
having learned anything, it is no more worthy of any respect." This
last, I think, will speak to your condition.

But at this rate I might fill many letters.

Our acquaintance with the ancient Hindoos is not at all personal. The
full names that can be relied upon are very shadowy. It is, however,
tangible works that we know. The best I think of are the Bhagvat Geeta
(an episode in an ancient heroic poem called the Mahabarat), the
Vedas, the Vishnu Purana, the Institutes of Menu, etc.

I cannot say that Swedenborg has been directly and practically
valuable to me, for I have not been a reader of him, except to a
slight extent; but I have the highest regard for him, and trust that I
shall read his works in some world or other. He had a wonderful
knowledge of our interior and spiritual life, though his illuminations
are occasionally blurred by trivialities. He comes nearer to
answering, or attempting to answer, literally, your questions
concerning man's origin, purpose, and destiny, than any of the
worthies I have referred to. But I think that that is not _altogether_
a recommendation; since such an answer to these questions cannot be
discovered any more than perpetual motion, for which no reward is now
offered. The noblest man it is, methinks, that knows, and by his life
suggests, the most about these things. Crack away at these nuts,
however, as long as you can,--the very exercise will ennoble you, and
you may get something better than the answer you expect.


TO B. B. WILEY (AT CHICAGO).

     CONCORD, April 26, 1857.

MR. WILEY,--I see that you are turning a broad furrow among the books,
but I trust that some very private journal all the while holds its own
through their midst. Books can only reveal us to ourselves, and as
often as they do us this service we lay them aside. I should say, read
Goethe's autobiography, by all means, also Gibbon's, Haydon the
painter's, and our Franklin's of course; perhaps also Alfieri's,
Benvenuto Cellini's, and De Quincey's "Confessions of an
Opium-Eater,"--since you like autobiography. I think you must read
Coleridge again, and further, skipping all his theology, _i. e._, if
you value precise definitions and a discriminating use of language. By
the way, read De Quincey's Reminiscences of Coleridge and Wordsworth.

How shall we account for our pursuits, if they are original? We get
the language with which to describe our various lives out of a common
mint. If others have their losses which they are busy repairing, so
have I mine, and their hound and horse may _perhaps_ be the symbols of
some of them.[76] But also I have lost, or am in danger of losing, a
far finer and more ethereal treasure which commonly no loss, of which
they are conscious, will symbolize. This I answer hastily and with
some hesitation, according as I now understand my words....

Methinks a certain polygamy with its troubles is the fate of almost
all men. They are married to two wives: their genius (a celestial
muse), and also to some fair daughter of the earth. Unless these two
were fast friends before marriage, and so are afterward, there will be
but little peace in the house.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, December 31, 1856.

MR. BLAKE,--I think it will not be worth the while for me to come to
Worcester to lecture at all this year. It will be better to wait till
I am--perhaps unfortunately--more in that line. My writing has not
taken the shape of lectures, and therefore I should be obliged to read
one of three or four old lectures, the best of which I have read to
some of your auditors before. I carried that one which I call
"Walking, or the Wild," to Amherst, N. H., the evening of that cold
Thursday,[77] and I am to read another at Fitchburg, February 3. I am
simply their hired man. This will probably be the extent of my
lecturing hereabouts.

I must depend on meeting Mr. Wasson some other time.

Perhaps it always costs me more than it comes to to lecture before a
promiscuous audience. It is an irreparable injury done to my modesty
even,--I become so indurated.

O solitude! obscurity! meanness! I never triumph so as when I have the
least success in my neighbor's eyes. The lecturer gets fifty dollars a
night; but what becomes of his winter? What consolation will it be
hereafter to have fifty thousand dollars for living in the world? I
should like not to exchange _any_ of my life for money.

These, you may think, are reasons for not lecturing, when you have no
great opportunity. It is even so, perhaps. I could lecture on dry oak
leaves; I could, but who could hear me? If I were to try it on any
large audience, I fear it would be no gain to them, and a positive
loss to me. I should have behaved rudely toward my rustling
friends.[78]

I am surveying, instead of lecturing, at present. Let me have a
skimming from your "pan of unwrinkled cream."

       *       *       *       *       *

The proposition about Mr. Alcott in Thoreau's letter of September 23,
1856, to Mr. Ricketson took effect in the spring of 1857, and early in
April he went to visit the Ricketsons in New Bedford, going down from
Walpole, and there met his younger friends Channing and Thoreau.
Anticipating Mr. Alcott's visit, Thoreau wrote thus:--


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, March 28, 1857.

FRIEND RICKETSON,--If it chances to be perfectly agreeable and
convenient to you, I will make you a visit next week (say Wednesday or
Thursday), and we will have some more rides to Assawampset and the
seashore. Have you got a boat on the former yet? Who knows but we may
camp out on the island? I propose this now, because it will be more
novel to me at this season, and I should like to see your early birds,
etc.

Your historical papers have all come safely to hand, and I thank you
for them. I see that they will be indispensable _mémoires pour
servir_. By the way, have you read Church's "History of Philip's War,"
and looked up the localities? It should make part of a chapter.

I had a long letter from Cholmondeley lately, which I should like to
show you,

I will expect an answer to this straightway,--but be sure you let your
own convenience and inclinations rule it. Please remember me to your
family.

       *       *       *       *       *

He was welcomed, of course, and went down April 2, as indicated in
the letter of the day before. But he had not been informed that Alcott
was already there, writing in his Diary of April 1, this sketch of
Brooklawn and its occupants:--

"A neat country residence, surrounded by wild pastures and low
woods,--the little stream Acushnet flowing east of the house, and into
Fairhaven Bay. The hamlet of Acushnet at the 'Head of the River' lies
within half a mile of Ricketson's house. His tastes are pastoral,
simple even to wildness; and he passes a good part of his day in the
fields and woods,--or in his rude 'Shanty' near his house, where he
writes and reads his favorite authors, Cowper having the first place.
He is in easy circumstances, and has the manners of an English
gentleman,--frank, hospitable, and with positive persuasions of his
own; mercurial, perhaps, and wayward a little sometimes, but full of
kindness and sensibility to suffering."


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, April 1, 1857.

DEAR RICKETSON,--I got your note of welcome night before last.
Channing is not here; at least I have not seen nor heard of him, but
depend on meeting him in New Bedford. I expect, if the weather is
favorable, to take the 4.30 train from Boston to-morrow, Thursday, P.
M., for I hear of no noon train, and shall be glad to find your wagon
at Tarkiln Hill, for I see it will be rather late for going across
lots.

Alcott was here last week, and will probably visit New Bedford within
a week or two.

I have seen all the spring signs you mention, and a few more, even
here. Nay, I heard one frog peep nearly a week ago,--methinks the very
first one in all this region. I wish that there were a few more signs
of spring in myself; however, I take it that there _are_ as many
within us as we think we hear _without_ us. I am decent for a steady
pace, but not yet for a race. I have a little cold at present, and you
speak of rheumatism about the head and shoulders. Your frost is not
quite out. I suppose that the earth itself has a little cold and
rheumatism about these times; but all these things together produce a
very fair general result. In a concert, you know, we must sing our
parts feebly sometimes, that we may not injure the general effect. I
should n't wonder if my two-year-old invalidity had been a positively
charming feature to some amateurs favorably located. Why not a blasted
man as well as a blasted tree, on your lawn?

If you should happen not to see me by the train named, do not go
again, but wait at home for me, or a note from

     Yours,
     HENRY D. THOREAU.

On that Thursday, April 2, Alcott wrote in his Diary, "Henry Thoreau
comes to tea, also Ellery Channing, and we talk till into the evening
late." This visit of Thoreau was his longest, lasting until April 15,
and it was during the fortnight that he sang "Tom Bowling" and danced
with vigor in the Brooklawn drawing-room, a scene which Alcott loved
to describe. Sophia Thoreau, writing in 1862, said: "I have so often
witnessed the like that I can easily imagine how it was, and I
remember that Henry gave me some account. I recollect he said that he
did not scruple to tread on Mr. Alcott's toes."


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, April 17, 1857.

MR. BLAKE,--I returned from New Bedford night before last. I met
Alcott there, and learned from him that probably you had gone to
Concord. I am very sorry that I missed you. I had expected you
earlier, and at last thought that I should get back before you came;
but I ought to have notified you of my absence. However, it would have
been too late, after I had made up my mind to go. I hope you lost
nothing by going a little round.

I took out the celtis seeds at your request, at the time we spoke of
them, and left them in the chamber on some shelf or other. If you have
found them, very well; if you have not found them, very well; but tell
Hale[79] of it, if you see him. My mother says that you and Brown and
Rogers and Wasson (titles left behind) talk of coming down on me some
day. Do not fail to come, one and all, and within a week or two, if
possible; else I may be gone again. Give me a short notice, and then
come and spend a day on Concord River,--or say that you will come if
it is fair, unless you are confident of bringing fair weather with
you. Come and be Concord, as I have been Worcestered.

Perhaps you came nearer to me for not finding me at home; for trains
of thought the more connect when trains of cars do not. If I had
actually met you, you would have gone again; but now I have not yet
dismissed you. I hear what you say about personal relations with joy.
It is as if you had said: "I value the best and finest part of you,
and not the worst. I can even endure your very near and real approach,
and prefer it to a shake of the hand." This intercourse is not subject
to time or distance.

I have a very long new and faithful letter from Cholmondeley which I
wish to show you. He speaks of sending me more books!!

If I were with you now, I could tell you much of Ricketson, and my
visit to New Bedford; but I do not know how it will be by and by. I
should like to have you meet R., who is the frankest man I know.
Alcott and he get along very well together. Channing has returned to
Concord with me,--probably for a short visit only.

Consider this a business letter, which you know _counts_ nothing in
the game we play. Remember me particularly to Brown.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, June 6, 1857, 3 P. M.

MR. BLAKE,--I have just got your note, but I am sorry to say that I
this very morning sent a note to Channing, stating that I would go
with him to Cape Cod next week on an excursion which we have been
talking of for some time. If there were time to communicate with you,
I should ask you to come to Concord on Monday, before I go; but as it
is, I must wait till I come back, which I think will be about ten days
hence. I do not like this delay, but there seems to be a fate in it.
Perhaps Mr. Wasson will be well enough to come by that time. I will
notify you of my return, and shall depend on seeing you all.

June 23d. I returned from Cape Cod last evening, and now take the
first opportunity to invite you men of Worcester to this quiet
_Mediterranean_ shore. Can you come this week on Friday, or next
Monday? I mention the earliest days on which I suppose you can be
ready. If more convenient, name some other time _within ten days_. I
shall be rejoiced to see you, and to act the part of skipper in the
contemplated voyage. I have just got another letter from Cholmondeley,
which may interest you somewhat.


TO MARSTON WATSON (AT PLYMOUTH).

     CONCORD, August 17, 1857.

MR. WATSON,--I am much indebted to you for your glowing communication
of July 20th. I had that very day left Concord for the wilds of Maine;
but when I returned, August 8th, two out of the six worms remained
nearly, if not quite, as bright as at first, I was assured. In their
best estate they had excited the admiration of many of the inhabitants
of Concord. It was a singular coincidence that I should find these
worms awaiting me, for my mind was full of a phosphorescence which I
had seen in the woods. I have waited to learn something more about
them before acknowledging the receipt of them. I have frequently met
with glow-worms in my night walks, but am not sure they were the same
kind with these. Dr. Harris once described to me a larger kind than I
had found, "nearly as big as your little finger;" but he does not name
them in his report.

The only authorities on Glow-worms which I chance to have (and I am
pretty well provided) are Kirby and Spence (the fullest), Knapp
("Journal of a Naturalist"), "The Library of Entertaining Knowledge"
(Rennie), a French work, etc., etc.; but there is no minute,
scientific description of any of these. This is apparently a female of
the genus _Lampyris_; but Kirby and Spence say that there are nearly
two hundred species of this genus alone. The one commonly referred to
by English writers is the _Lampyris noctiluca_; but judging from Kirby
and Spence's description, and from the description and plate in the
French work, this is not that one, for, besides other differences,
both say that the light proceeds from the abdomen. Perhaps the worms
exhibited by Durkee (whose statement to the Boston Society of Natural
History, second July meeting, in the _Traveller_ of August 12, 1857, I
send you) were the same with these. I do not see how they could be the
_L. noctiluca_, as he states.

I expect to go to Cambridge before long, and if I get any more light
on this subject I will inform you. The two worms are still alive.

I shall be glad to receive the drosera at any time, if you chance to
come across it. I am looking over Loudon's "Arboretum," which we have
added to our library, and it occurs to me that it was written
expressly for you, and that you cannot avoid placing it on your own
shelves.

I should have been glad to see the whale, and might perhaps have done
so, if I had not at that time been seeing "the elephant" (or moose) in
the Maine woods. I have been associating for about a month with one
Joseph Polis, the chief man of the Penobscot tribe of Indians, and
have learned a great deal from him, which I should like to tell you
some time.


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, August 18, 1857.

DEAR SIR,--Your Wilson Flagg[80] seems a serious person, and it is
encouraging to hear of a contemporary who recognizes Nature so
squarely, and selects such a theme as "Barns." (I would rather "Mount
Auburn" were omitted.) But he is not alert enough. He wants stirring
up with a pole. He should practice turning a series of somersets
rapidly or jump up and see how many times he can strike his feet
together before coming down. Let him make the earth turn round now the
other way, and whet his wits on it, whichever way it goes, as on a
grindstone; in short, see how many ideas he can entertain at once.

His style, as I remember, is singularly vague (I refer to the book),
and, before I got to the end of the sentences, I was off the track. If
you indulge in long periods, you must be sure to have a snapper at the
end. As for style of writing, if one has anything to say, it drops
from him simply and directly, as a stone falls to the ground. There
are no two ways about it, but down it comes, and he may stick in the
points and stops wherever he can get a chance. New ideas come into
this world somewhat like falling meteors, with a flash and an
explosion, and perhaps somebody's castle-roof perforated. To try to
polish the stone in its descent, to give it a peculiar turn, and make
it whistle a tune, perchance, would be of no use, if it were possible.
Your polished stuff turns out not to be meteoric, but of this earth.
However, there is plenty of time, and Nature is an admirable
schoolmistress.

Speaking of correspondence, you ask me if I "cannot turn over a new
leaf in that line." I certainly could if I were to receive it; but
just then I looked up and saw that your page was dated "May 10,"
though mailed in August, and it occurred to me that I had seen you
since that date this year. Looking again, it appeared that your note
was written in '56!! However, it was a _new_ leaf to me, and I _turned
it over_ with as much interest as if it had been written the day
before. Perhaps you kept it so long in order that the manuscript and
subject-matter might be more in keeping with the old-fashioned paper
on which it was written.

I traveled the length of Cape Cod on foot, soon after you were here,
and, within a few days, have returned from the wilds of Maine, where I
have made a journey of three hundred and twenty-five miles with a
canoe and an Indian, and a single white companion,--Edward Hoar, Esq.,
of this town, lately from California,--traversing the head waters of
the Kennebec, Penobscot, and St. John.

Can't you extract any advantage out of that depression of spirits you
refer to? It suggests to me cider-mills, wine-presses, etc., etc. All
kinds of pressure or power should be used and made to turn some kind
of machinery.

Channing was just leaving Concord for Plymouth when I arrived, but
said he should be here again in two or three days.

Please remember me to your family, and say that I have at length
learned to sing "Tom Bowlin" according to the notes.


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, September 9, 1857.

FRIEND RICKETSON,--I thank you for your kind invitation to visit you,
but I have taken so many vacations this year,--at New Bedford, Cape
Cod, and Maine,--that any more relaxation--call it rather
dissipation--will cover me with shame and disgrace. I have not earned
what I have already enjoyed. As some heads cannot carry much wine, so
it would seem that I cannot bear so much society as you can. I have an
immense appetite for solitude, like an infant for sleep, and if I
don't get enough of it this year, I shall cry all the next.

My mother's house is full at present; but if it were not, I would
have no right to invite you hither, while entertaining such designs as
I have hinted at. However, if you care to storm the town, I will
engage to take some afternoon walks with you,--retiring into
profoundest solitude the most sacred part of the day.

       *       *       *       *       *

Ricketson had written to invite Thoreau to visit him again, saying
among other things, "Walton's small sailboat is now on Assawampset
Pond." After visiting Concord that autumn, he proposed another visit
in December, saying (December 11, 1857), "I long to see your long
beard. Channing says it is terrible to behold, but improves you
mightily." This fixes the date, late in that year, when Thoreau first
wore his full beard, as shown in his latest portraits.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, August 18, 1857.

MR. BLAKE,--Fifteenthly. It seems to me that you need some absorbing
pursuit. It does not matter much what it is, so it be honest. Such
employment will be favorable to your development in more
characteristic and important directions. You know there must be
impulse enough for steerageway, though it be not toward your port, to
prevent your drifting helplessly on to rocks or shoals. Some sails are
set for this purpose only. There is the large fleet of scholars and
men of science, for instance, always to be seen standing off and on
every coast, and saved thus from running on to reefs, who will at last
run into their proper haven, we trust.

It is a pity you were not here with Brown and Wiley. I think that in
this case, _for a rarity_, the more the merrier.

You perceived that I did not entertain the idea of our going together
to Maine on such an excursion as I had planned. The more I thought of
it, the more imprudent it appeared to me. I did think to have written
you before going, though not to propose your going also; but I went at
last very suddenly, and could only have written a business letter, if
I had tried, when there was no business to be accomplished. I have now
returned, and think I have had a quite profitable journey, chiefly
from associating with an intelligent Indian. My companion, Edward
Hoar, also found his account in it, though he suffered considerably
from being obliged to carry unusual loads over wet and rough
"carries,"--in one instance five miles through a swamp, where the
water was frequently up to our knees, and the fallen timber higher
than our heads. He went over the ground three times, not being able to
carry all his load at once. This prevented his ascending Ktaadn. Our
best nights were those when it rained the hardest, on account of the
mosquitoes. I speak of these things, which were not unexpected, merely
to account for my not inviting you.

Having returned, I flatter myself that the world appears in some
respects a little larger, and not, as usual, smaller and shallower,
for having extended my range. I have made a short excursion into the
new world which the Indian dwells in, or is. He begins where we leave
off. It is worth the while to detect new faculties in man,--he is so
much the more divine; and anything that fairly excites our admiration
expands us. The Indian, who can find his way so wonderfully in the
woods, possesses so much intelligence which the white man does
not,--and it increases my own capacity, as well as faith, to observe
it. I rejoice to find that intelligence flows in other channels than I
knew. It redeems for me portions of what seemed brutish before.

It is a great satisfaction to find that your oldest convictions are
permanent. With regard to essentials, I have never had occasion to
change my mind. The aspect of the world varies from year to year, as
the landscape is differently clothed, but I find that the _truth_ is
still _true_, and I never regret any emphasis which it may have
inspired. Ktaadn is there still, but much more surely my old
conviction is there, resting with more than mountain breadth and
weight on the world, the source still of fertilizing streams, and
affording glorious views from its summit, if I can get up to it again.
As the mountains still stand on the plain, and far more unchangeable
and permanent,--stand still grouped around, farther or nearer to my
maturer eye, the ideas which I have entertained,--the everlasting
teats from which we draw our nourishment.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, November 16, 1857.

MR. BLAKE,--You have got the start again. It was I that owed you a
letter or two, if I mistake not.

They make a great ado nowadays about hard times;[81] but I think that
the community generally, ministers and all, take a wrong view of the
matter, though some of the ministers preaching according to a formula
may pretend to take a right one. This general failure, both private
and public, is rather occasion for rejoicing, as reminding us whom we
have at the helm,--that justice is always done. If our merchants did
not most of them fail, and the banks too, my faith in the old laws of
the world would be staggered. The statement that ninety-six in a
hundred doing such business surely break down is perhaps the sweetest
fact that statistics have revealed,--exhilarating as the fragrance of
sallows in spring. Does it not say somewhere, "The Lord reigneth, let
the earth rejoice"? If thousands are thrown out of employment, it
suggests that they were not well employed. Why don't they take the
hint? It is not enough to be industrious; so are the ants. What are
you industrious about?

The merchants and company have long laughed at transcendentalism,
higher laws, etc., crying, "None of your moonshine," as if they were
anchored to something not only definite, but sure and permanent. If
there was any institution which was presumed to rest on a solid and
secure basis, and more than any other represented this boasted common
sense, prudence, and practical talent, it was the bank; and now those
very banks are found to be mere reeds shaken by the wind. Scarcely one
in the land has kept its promise.... It would seem as if you only need
live forty years in any age of this world, to see its most promising
government become the government of Kansas, and banks nowhere. Not
merely the Brook Farm and Fourierite communities, but now the
community generally has failed. But there is the moonshine still,
serene, beneficent, and unchanged. Hard times, I say, have this value,
among others, that they show us what such promises are worth,--where
the _sure_ banks are. I heard some Mr. Eliot praised the other day
because he had paid some of his debts, though it took nearly all he
had (why, I've done as much as that myself many times, and a little
more), and then gone to board. What if he has? I hope he's got a good
boarding-place, and can pay for it. It's not everybody that can.
However, in my opinion, it is cheaper to keep house,--_i. e._, if you
don't keep too big a one.

Men will tell you sometimes that "money's hard." That shows it was not
made to eat, I say. Only think of a man in this new world, in his log
cabin, in the midst of a corn and potato patch, with a sheepfold on
one side, talking about money being hard! So are flints hard; there is
no alloy in them. What has that got to do with his raising his food,
cutting his wood (or breaking it), keeping indoors when it rains, and,
if need be, spinning and weaving his clothes? Some of those who sank
with the steamer the other day found out that money was _heavy_ too.
Think of a man's priding himself on this kind of wealth, as if it
greatly enriched him. As if one struggling in mid-ocean with a bag of
gold on his back should gasp out, "I am worth a hundred thousand
dollars." I see them struggling just as ineffectually on dry land,
nay, even more hopelessly, for, in the former case, rather than sink,
they will finally let the bag go; but in the latter they are pretty
sure to hold and go down with it. I see them swimming about in their
greatcoats, collecting their rents, really _getting their dues_,
drinking bitter draughts which only increase their thirst, becoming
more and more water-logged, till finally they sink plumb down to the
bottom. But enough of this.

Have you ever read Ruskin's books? If not, I would recommend [you] to
try the second and third volumes (not parts) of his "Modern Painters."
I am now reading the fourth, and have read most of his other books
lately. They are singularly good and encouraging, though not without
crudeness and bigotry. The themes in the volumes referred to are
Infinity, Beauty, Imagination, Love of Nature, etc.,--all treated in a
very living manner. I am rather surprised by them. It is remarkable
that these things should be said with reference to painting chiefly,
rather than literature. The "Seven Lamps of Architecture," too, is
made of good stuff; but, as I remember, there is too much about art in
it for me and the Hottentots. We want to know about matters and things
in general. Our house is as yet a hut.

You must have been enriched by your solitary walk over the mountains.
I suppose that I feel the same awe when on their summits that many do
on entering a church. To see what kind of earth that is on which you
have a house and garden somewhere, perchance! It is equal to the lapse
of many years. You must ascend a mountain to learn your relation to
matter, and so to your own body, for _it_ is at home there, though
_you_ are not. It might have been composed there, and will have no
farther to go to return to dust there, than in your garden; but your
spirit inevitably comes away, and brings your body with it, if it
lives. Just as awful really, and as glorious, is your garden. See how
I can play with my fingers! They are the funniest companions I have
ever found. Where did they come from? What strange control I have over
them! _Who_ am I? What are they?--those little peaks--call them
Madison, Jefferson, Lafayette. What is _the matter_? _My_ fingers, do
I say? Why, ere long, they may form the topmost crystal of Mount
Washington. I go up there to see my body's cousins. There are some
fingers, toes, bowels, etc., that I take an interest in, and therefore
I am interested in all their relations.

Let me suggest a theme for you: to state to yourself precisely and
completely what that walk over the mountains amounted to for
you,--returning to this essay again and again, until you are satisfied
that all that was important in your experience is in it. Give this
good reason to yourself for having gone over the mountains, for
mankind is ever going over a mountain. Don't suppose that you can tell
it precisely the first dozen times you try, but at 'em again,
especially where, after a sufficient pause, you suspect that you are
touching the heart or summit of the matter, reiterate your blows
there, and account for the mountain to yourself. Not that the story
need be long, but it will take a long while to make it short. It did
not take very long to get over the mountain, you thought; but have you
got over it indeed? If you have been to the top of Mount Washington,
let me ask, what did you find there? That is the way they prove
witnesses, you know. Going up there and being blown on is nothing. We
never do much climbing while we are there, but we eat our luncheon,
etc., very much as at home. It is after we get home that we really go
over the mountain, if ever. What did the mountain say? What did the
mountain do?

I keep a mountain anchored off eastward a little way, which I ascend
in my dreams both awake and asleep. Its broad base spreads over a
village or two, which does not know it; neither does it know them, nor
do I when I ascend it. I can see its general outline as plainly now in
my mind as that of Wachusett. I do not invent in the least, but state
exactly what I see. I find that I go up it when I am light-footed and
earnest. It ever smokes like an altar with its sacrifice. I am not
aware that a single villager frequents it or knows of it. I keep this
mountain to ride instead of a horse.

Do you not mistake about seeing Moosehead Lake from Mount Washington?
That must be about one hundred and twenty miles distant, or nearly
twice as far as the Atlantic, which last some doubt if they can see
thence. Was it not Umbagog?

Dr. Solger[82] has been lecturing in the vestry in this town on
Geography, to Sanborn's scholars, for several months past, at five P.
M. Emerson and Alcott have been to hear him. I was surprised when the
former asked me, the other day, if I was not going to hear Dr. Solger.
What, to be sitting in a meeting-house cellar at that time of day,
when you might possibly be outdoors! I never thought of such a thing.
What was the sun made for? If he does not prize daylight, I do. Let
him lecture to owls and dormice. He must be a wonderful lecturer
indeed who can keep me indoors at such an hour, when the night is
coming in which no man can walk.

Are you in want of amusement nowadays? Then play a little at the game
of getting a living. There never was anything equal to it. Do it
temperately, though, and don't sweat. Don't let this secret out, for I
have a design against the Opera. OPERA!! Pass along the exclamations,
devil.[83]

Now is the time to become conversant with your wood-pile (this comes
under Work for the Month), and be sure you put some warmth into it by
your mode of getting it. Do not consent to be passively warmed. An
intense degree of that is the hotness that is threatened. But a
positive warmth within can withstand the fiery furnace, as the vital
heat of a living man can withstand the heat that cooks meat.

       *       *       *       *       *

After returning from the last of his three expeditions to the Maine
woods (in 1846, 1853, and 1857), Thoreau was appealed to by his friend
Higginson, then living in Worcester, for information concerning a
proposed excursion from Worcester into Maine and Canada, then but
little visited by tourists, who now go there in droves. He replied in
this long letter, with its minute instructions and historical
references. The Arnold mentioned is General Benedict Arnold, who in
1775-76 made a toilsome march through the Maine forest with a small
New England army for the conquest of Canada, while young John Thoreau,
Henry's grandfather, was establishing himself as a merchant in Boston
(not yet evacuated by British troops), previous to his marriage with
Jane Burns.


TO T. W. HIGGINSON (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, January 28, 1858.

DEAR SIR,--It would be perfectly practicable to go to the Madawaska
the way you propose. As for the route to Quebec, I do not find the
Sugar Loaf Mountains on my maps. The most direct and regular way, as
you know, is substantially Montresor's and Arnold's and the younger
John Smith's--by the Chaudière; but this is less wild. If your object
is to see the St. Lawrence River below Quebec, you will probably
strike it at the Rivière du Loup. (_Vide_ Hodge's account of his
excursion thither _via_ the Allegash,--I believe it is the second
Report on the Geology of the Public Lands of Maine and Massachusetts
in '37.) I think that our Indian last summer, when we talked of going
to the St. Lawrence, named another route, near the Madawaska,--perhaps
the St. Francis,--which would save the long portage which Hodge made.

I do not know whether you think of ascending the St. Lawrence in a
canoe; but if you should, you might be delayed not only by the
current, but by the waves, which frequently run too high for a canoe
on such a mighty stream. It would be a grand excursion to go to Quebec
by the Chaudière, descend the St. Lawrence to the Rivière du Loup, and
return by the Madawaska and St. John to Fredericton, or
farther,--almost all the way _down-stream_--a very important
consideration.

I went to Moosehead in company with a party of four who were going
a-hunting down the Allegash and St. John, and thence by some other
stream over into the Restigouche, and down that to the Bay of
Chaleur,--to be gone six weeks. Our northern terminus was an island in
Heron Lake on the Allegash. (_Vide_ Colton's railroad and township map
of Maine.)

The Indian proposed that we should return to Bangor by the St. John
and Great Schoodic Lake, which we had thought of ourselves; and he
showed us on the map where we should be each night. It was then noon,
and the next day night, continuing down the Allegash, we should have
been at the Madawaska settlements, having made only one or two
portages; and thereafter, on the St. John there would be but one or
two more falls, with short carries; and if there was not too much
wind, we could go down that stream one hundred miles a day. It is
settled all the way below Madawaska. He knew the route well. He even
said that this was easier, and would take but little more time, though
much farther, than the route we decided on,--_i. e._, by Webster
Stream, the East Branch, and main Penobscot to Oldtown; but he may
have wanted a longer job. We preferred the latter, not only because it
was shorter, but because, as he said, it was wilder.

We went about three hundred and twenty-five miles with the canoe
(including sixty miles of stage between Bangor and Oldtown); were out
twelve nights, and spent about $40 apiece,--which was more than was
necessary. We paid the Indian, who was a very good one, $1.50 per day
and 50 cents a week for his canoe. This is enough in ordinary seasons.
I had formerly paid $2 for an Indian and for white batteau-men.

If you go to Madawaska in a leisurely manner, supposing no delay on
account of rain or the violence of the wind, you may reach Mt. Kineo
by noon, and have the afternoon to explore it. The next day you may
get to the head of the lake before noon, make the portage of two and a
half miles over a wooden railroad, and drop down the Penobscot half a
dozen miles. The third morning you will perhaps walk half a mile about
Pine Stream Falls, while the Indian runs down,--cross the head of
Chesuncook, reach the junction of the Caucomgomock and Umbazookskus by
noon, and ascend the latter to Umbazookskus Lake that night. If it is
low water, you may have to walk and carry a little on the Umbazookskus
before entering the lake. The fourth morning you will make the carry
of two miles to Mud Pond (Allegash water),--and a very wet carry it
is,--and reach Chamberlain Lake by noon, and Heron Lake, perhaps, that
night, after a couple of very short carries at the outlet of
Chamberlain. At the end of two days more you will probably be at
Madawaska. Of course the Indian _can_ paddle twice as far in a day as
he commonly does.

Perhaps you would like a few more details. We used (three of us)
exactly twenty-six pounds of hard bread, fourteen pounds of pork,
three pounds of coffee, twelve pounds of sugar (and could have used
more), besides a little tea, Indian meal, and rice,--and plenty of
berries and moose-meat. This was faring very luxuriously. I had not
formerly carried coffee, sugar, or rice. But for solid food, I decide
that it is not worth the while to carry anything but hard bread and
pork, whatever your tastes and habits may be. These wear best, and you
have no time nor dishes in which to cook anything else. Of course you
will take a little Indian meal to fry fish in; and half a dozen lemons
also, if you have sugar, will be very refreshing,--for the water is
warm.[84]

To save time, the sugar, coffee, tea, salt, etc., should be in
separate water-tight bags, labeled, and tied with a leathern string;
and all the provisions and blankets should be put into two large
india-rubber bags, if you can find them water-tight. Ours were not. A
four-quart tin pail makes a good kettle for all purposes, and tin
plates are portable and convenient. Don't forget an india-rubber
knapsack, with a large flap,--plenty of dish-cloths, old newspapers,
strings, and twenty-five feet of strong cord. Of india-rubber
clothing, the most you can wear, if any, is a very light coat,--and
that you cannot work in. I could be more particular,--but perhaps have
been too much so already.


TO MARSTON WATSON (AT PLYMOUTH).

     CONCORD, April 25, 1858.

DEAR SIR,--Your unexpected gift of pear trees reached me yesterday in
good condition, and I spent the afternoon in giving them a good
setting out; but I fear that this cold weather may hurt them. However,
I am inclined to think they are insured, since you have looked on
them. It makes one's mouth water to read their names only. From what I
hear of the extent of your bounty, if a reasonable part of the trees
succeed, this transplanting will make a new era for Concord to date
from.

Mine must be a lucky star, for day before yesterday I received a box
of mayflowers from Brattleboro, and yesterday morning your pear trees,
and at evening a hummingbird's nest from Worcester. This looks like
fairy housekeeping.

I discovered two new plants in Concord last winter, the Labrador tea
(_Ledum latifolium_), and yew (_Taxis baccata_).

By the way, in January I communicated with Dr. Durkee, whose report on
glow-worms I sent you, and it appeared, as I expected, that he (and by
his account Agassiz, Gould, Jackson, and others to whom he showed
them) did not consider them a distinct species, but a variety of the
common, or _Lampyris noctiluca_, some of which you got in Lincoln.
Durkee, at least, has never seen the last. I told him that I had no
doubt about their being a distinct species. His, however, were
luminous throughout every part of the body, as those which you sent me
were not, while I had them.

Is nature as full of vigor to your eyes as ever, or do you detect some
falling off at last? Is the mystery of the hog's bristle cleared up,
and with it that of our life? It is the question, to the exclusion of
every other interest.

I am sorry to hear of the burning of your woods, but, thank Heaven,
your great ponds and your sea cannot be burnt. I love to think of your
warm, sandy wood-roads, and your breezy island out in the sea. What a
prospect you can get every morning from the hilltop east of your
house![85] I think that even the heathen that I am could say, or
sing, or dance, morning prayers there of some kind.

Please remember me to Mrs. Watson, and to the rest of your family who
are helping the sun shine yonder.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of his habits in mountain-climbing, Channing says:[86] "He ascended
such hills as Monadnoc by his own path; would lay down his map on the
summit and draw a line to the point he proposed to visit
below,--perhaps forty miles away on the landscape, and set off bravely
to make the 'short-cut.' The lowland people wondered to see him
scaling the heights as if he had lost his way, or at his jumping over
their cow-yard fences,--asking if he had fallen from the clouds. In a
walk like this he always carried his umbrella; and on this Monadnoc
trip, when about a mile from the station [in Troy, N. H.], a torrent
of rain came down; without the umbrella his books, blankets, maps, and
provisions would all have been spoiled, or the morning lost by delay.
On the mountain there being a thick, soaking fog, the first object was
to camp and make tea. He spent five nights in camp, having built
another hut, to get varied views. Flowers, birds, lichens, and the
rocks were carefully examined, all parts of the mountain were visited,
and as accurate a map as could be made by pocket compass was
carefully sketched and drawn out, in the five days spent there,--with
notes of the striking aerial phenomena, incidents of travel and
natural history. The outlook across the valley over to Wachusett, with
its thunder-storms and battles in the cloud; the farmers' back-yards
in Jaffrey, where the family cotton can be seen bleaching on the
grass, but no trace of the pigmy family; the dry, soft air all night,
the lack of dew in the morning; the want of water,--a pint being a
good deal,--these, and similar things make up some part of such an
excursion."

The Monadnock excursion above mentioned began June 3d, and continued
three days. It inspired Thoreau to take a longer mountain tour with
his neighbor and friend Edward Hoar, to which these letters relate,
giving the ways and means of the journey,--a memorable one to all
concerned.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, June 29, 1858, 8 A. M.

MR. BLAKE,--Edward Hoar and I propose to start for the White Mountains
in a covered wagon, with one horse, on the morning of Thursday the 1st
of July, intending to explore the mountain-tops botanically, and camp
on them at least several times. Will you take a seat in the wagon with
us? Mr. Hoar prefers to hire the horse and wagon himself. Let us hear
by express, as soon as you can, whether you will join us here by the
earliest train on Thursday morning, or Wednesday night. Bring your map
of the mountains, and as much _provision_ for the road as you
can,--hard bread, sugar, tea, meat, etc.,--for we intend to live like
gipsies; also, a blanket and some thick clothes for the mountain-top.

       *       *       *       *       *

July 1st. Last Monday evening Mr. Edward Hoar said that he thought of
going to the White Mountains. I remarked casually that I should like
to go well enough if I could afford it. Whereupon he declared that if
I would go with him, he would hire a horse and wagon, so that the ride
would cost me nothing, and we would explore the mountain-tops
_botanically_, camping on them many nights. The next morning I
suggested you and Brown's accompanying us in another wagon, and we
could all camp and cook, gipsy-like, along the way,--or, perhaps, if
the horse could draw us, you would like to bear half the expense of
the horse and wagon, and take a seat with us. He liked either
proposition, but said that if you would take a seat with us, he would
prefer to hire the horse and wagon himself. You could contribute
something else if you pleased. Supposing that Brown would be confined,
I wrote to you accordingly, by _express_ on Tuesday morning, _via_
Boston, stating that we should start to-day, suggesting provision,
thick clothes, etc., and asking for an answer; but I have not received
one. I have just heard that you _may_ be at Sterling, and now write to
say that we shall still be glad if you will join us at Senter Harbor,
where we expect to be next Monday morning. In any case, will you
please direct a letter to us there _at once_?


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, June 30, 1858.

FRIEND RICKETSON,--I am on the point of starting for the White
Mountains in a wagon with my neighbor Edward Hoar, and I write to you
now rather to apologize for not writing, than to answer worthily your
three notes. I thank you heartily for them. You will not care for a
little delay in acknowledging them, since your date shows that you can
afford to wait. Indeed, my head has been so full of company, etc.,
that I could not reply to you fitly before, nor can I now.

As for preaching to men these days in the Walden strain, is it of any
consequence to preach to an audience of men who _can_ fail, or who can
be _revived_? There are few beside. Is it any success to interest these
parties? If a man has _speculated_ and _failed_, he will probably do
these things again, in spite of you or me. I confess that it is rare
that I rise to sentiment in my relations to men,--ordinarily to a mere
patient, or may be wholesome, good-will. I can imagine something more,
but the truth compels me to regard the ideal and the actual as two
things.

Channing has come, and as suddenly gone, and left a short poem, "Near
Home," published (?) or printed by Munroe, which I have hardly had
time to glance at. As you may guess, I learn nothing of you from him.

You already foresee my answer to your invitation to make you a summer
visit: I am bound for the mountains. But I trust that you have
vanquished, ere this, those dusky demons that seem to lurk around the
Head of the River.[87] You know that this warfare is nothing but a
kind of nightmare, and it is our thoughts alone which give those
_un_worthies any body or existence.

I made an excursion with Blake, of Worcester, to Monadnock, a few
weeks since. We took our blankets and food, spent two nights on the
mountain, and did not go into a house.

Alcott has been very busy for a long time repairing an old shell of a
house, and I have seen very little of him.[88] I have looked more at
the houses which birds build. Watson made us all very generous
presents from his nursery in the spring. Especially did he remember
Alcott.

Excuse me for not writing any more at present, and remember me to your
family.

       *       *       *       *       *

In explanation of the next letter (October 31, 1858), it may be said
that Ricketson had formed a plan for visiting Europe, which he gave
up, and had recommended an "English Australian" who proposed to see
Concord. In Thoreau's reply, he mentions Mr. Hoar, who was not only
his companion in later journeys, but, while in college or the Harvard
Law School, had assisted Thoreau in that accidental forest fire,
mentioned in the Journal, which brought both the young men into much
disrepute among the Concord farmers and owners of wood-lots. At the
date of the letter, Channing was flitting between New Bedford and
Concord, and soon returned to spend the rest of his days in Thoreau's
town, where he died, December 23, 1901, the last survivor of the group
of friends to whom these letters relate.

In July, 1858, as mentioned in this letter to Mr. Ricketson, Thoreau
journeyed from Concord to the White Mountains, first visited with his
brother John in 1839. His later companion was Edward Hoar, a botanist
and lover of nature, who had been a magistrate in California, and in
boyhood a comrade of Thoreau in shooting excursions on the Concord
meadows. They journeyed in a wagon and Thoreau disliked the loss of
independence in choice of camping-places involved in the care of a
horse. He complained also of the magnificent inns ("mountain houses")
that had sprung up in the passes and on the plateaus since his first
visit. "Give me," he said, "a spruce house made in the rain," such as
he and Channing afterward (1860) made on Monadnock in his last trip to
that mountain. The chief exploit in the White Mountain trip was a
visit to Tuckerman's Ravine on Mt. Washington, of which Mr. Hoar, some
years before his death (in 1893), gave me an account, containing the
true anecdote of Thoreau's finding the arnica plant when he needed it.

On their way to this rather inaccessible chasm, Thoreau and his
comrade went first to what was then but a small tavern on the
"tip-top" of Mt. Washington. It was a foggy day; and when the landlord
was asked if he could furnish a guide to Tuckerman's Ravine, he
replied, "Yes, my brother is the guide; but if he went to-day he could
never find his way back in this fog." "Well," said Thoreau, "if we
cannot have a guide we will find it ourselves;" and he at once
produced a map he had made the day before at a roadside inn, where he
had found a wall map of the mountain region, and climbed on a table to
copy that portion he needed. With this map and his pocket compass he
"struck a bee-line," said Mr. Hoar, for the ravine, and soon came to
it, about a mile away. They went safely down the steep stairs into the
chasm, where they found the midsummer iceberg they wished to see. But
as they walked down the bed of the Peabody River, flowing from this
ravine, over boulders five or six feet high, the heavy packs on their
shoulders weighed them down, and finally, Thoreau's foot slipping, he
fell and sprained his ankle. He rose, but had not limped five steps
from the place where he fell, when he said, "Here is the arnica,
anyhow,"--reached out his hand and plucked the _Arnica mollis_, which
he had not before found anywhere. Before reaching the mountains they
had marked in their botany books forty-six species of plants they
hoped to find there, and before they came away they had found
forty-two of them.

When they reached their camping-place, farther down, Thoreau was so
lame he could not move about, and lay there in the camp several days,
eating the pork and other supplies they had in their packs, Mr. Hoar
going each day to the inn at the mountain summit. This camp was in a
thicket of dwarf firs at the foot of the ravine, where, just before
his accident, by carelessness in lighting a fire, some acres of the
mountain woodland had been set on fire; but this proved to be the
signal for which Thoreau had told his Worcester friends to watch, if
they wished to join him on the mountain. "I had told Blake," says
Thoreau in his Journal, "to look out for a smoke and a white tent. We
had made a smoke sure enough. We slept five in the tent that night,
and found it quite warm." Mr. Hoar added: "In this journey Thoreau
insisted on our carrying heavy packs, and rather despised persons who
complained of the burden. He was chagrined, in the Maine woods, to
find his Indian, Joe Polis (whom, on the whole, he admired), excited
and tremulous at sight of a moose, so that he could scarcely load his
gun properly. Joe, who was a good Catholic, wanted us to stop
traveling on Sunday and hold a meeting; and when we insisted on going
forward, the Indian withdrew into the woods to say his prayers,--then
came back and picked up the breakfast things, and we paddled on. As to
Thoreau's courage and manliness, nobody who had seen him among the
Penobscot rocks and rapids--the Indian trusting his life and his canoe
to Henry's skill, promptitude, and nerve--would ever doubt it."

Channing says:[89] "In his later journeys, if his companion was
footsore or loitered, he steadily pursued his road. Once, when a
follower was done up with headache and incapable of motion, hoping his
associate would comfort him and perhaps afford him a sip of tea, he
said, 'There are people who are sick in that way every morning, and go
about their affairs,' and then marched off about his. In such limits,
so inevitable, was he compacted.... This tone of mind grew out of no
insensibility; or, if he sometimes looked coldly on the suffering of
more tender natures, he sympathized with their afflictions, but could
do nothing to admire them. He would not injure a plant unnecessarily.
At the time of the John Brown tragedy, Thoreau was driven sick. So the
country's misfortunes in the Union war acted on his feelings with
great force: he used to say he 'could never recover while the war
lasted.'" Hawthorne had an experience somewhat similar, though he,
too, was of stern stuff when need was, and had much of the old Salem
sea-captains in his sensitive nature.


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, October 31, 1858.

FRIEND RICKETSON,--I have not seen anything of your English author
yet. Edward Hoar, my companion in Maine and at the White Mountains,
his sister Elizabeth, and a Miss Prichard, another neighbor of ours,
went to Europe in the Niagara on the 6th. I told them to look out for
you under the Yardley Oak, but it seems they will not find you there.

I had a pleasant time in Tuckerman's Ravine at the White Mountains in
July, entertaining four beside myself under my little tent through
some soaking rains; and more recently I have taken an interesting walk
with Channing about Cape Ann. We were obliged to "dipper it" a good
way, on account of the scarcity of fresh water, for we got most of our
meals by the shore. Channing is understood to be here for the winter,
but I rarely see him.

I should be pleased to see your face here in the course of the Indian
summer, which may still be expected, if any authority can tell us when
that phenomenon _does_ occur. We would like to hear the story of your
travels; for if you have not been fairly intoxicated with Europe, you
have been half-seas-over, and so can probably tell more about it.

       *       *       *       *       *

This alludes to the fact that Ricketson got as far as Halifax in his
attempt at Europe; and in his reply (November 3, 1858) he gave Thoreau
an account of his short voyage, on which the next letter comments.


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, November 6, 1858.

FRIEND RICKETSON,--I was much pleased with your lively and lifelike
account of your voyage. You were more than repaid for your trouble
after all. The coast of Nova Scotia, which you sailed along from
Windsor westward, is particularly interesting to the historian of
this country, having been settled earlier than Plymouth. Your "Isle of
Haut" is properly "Isle Haute," or the High Island of Champlain's map.
There is another off the coast of Maine. By the way, the American elk
of _American authors_ (_Cervus Canadensis_) is a distinct animal from
the moose (_Cervus alces_), though the latter is called elk by many.

You drew a very vivid portrait of the Australian,--short and stout,
with a pipe in his mouth, and his book inspired by beer, Pot First,
Pot Second, etc. I suspect that he must be potbellied withal. Methinks
I see the smoke going up from him as from a cottage on the moor. If he
does not quench his genius with his beer, it may burst into a clear
flame at last. However, perhaps he intentionally adopts the low style.

What do you mean by that ado about smoking, and my "purer tastes"? I
should like his pipe as well as his beer at least. Neither of them is
so bad as to be "highly connected," which you say he is,
unfortunately. No! I expect nothing but pleasure in "smoke from _your_
pipe."

You and the Australian must have put your heads together when you
concocted those titles,--with pipes in your mouths over a pot of beer.
I suppose that your chapters are, Whiff the First, Whiff the Second,
etc. But of course it is a more modest expression for "Fire from my
Genius."

You must have been very busy since you came back, or before you
sailed, to have brought out your History, of whose publication I had
not heard. I suppose that I have read it in the _Mercury_. Yet I am
curious to see how it looks in a volume, with your name on the
title-page.

I am more curious still about the poems. Pray put some sketches into
the book: your shanty for frontispiece; Arthur and Walton's boat (if
you can) running for Cuttyhunk in a tremendous gale; not forgetting
"Be honest boys," etc., near by; the Middleborough ponds with a
certain island looming in the distance; the Quaker meeting-house, and
the Brady house, if you like; the villagers catching smelts with
dip-nets in the twilight, at the Head of the River, etc., etc. Let it
be a local and villageous book as much as possible. Let some one make
a characteristic selection of mottoes from your shanty walls, and
sprinkle them in an irregular manner, at all angles, over the
fly-leaves and margins, as a man stamps his name in a hurry; and also
canes, pipes, and jackknives, of all your patterns, about the
frontispiece. I can think of plenty of devices for tail-pieces.
Indeed, I should like to see a hair pillow, accurately drawn, for one;
a cat, with a bell on, for another; the old horse, with his age
printed in the hollow of his back; half a cocoanut-shell by a spring;
a sheet of blotted paper; a settle occupied by a settler at full
length, etc., etc., etc. Call all the arts to your aid.

Don't wait for the Indian summer, but bring it with you.

P. S.--Let me ask a favor. I am trying to write something about the
autumnal tints, and I wish to know how much our trees differ from
English and European ones in this respect. Will you observe, or learn
for me, what English or European trees, if any, still retain their
leaves in Mr. Arnold's garden (the gardener will supply the true
names); and also if the foliage of any (and what) European or foreign
trees there have been brilliant the past month. If you will do this
you will greatly oblige me. I return the newspaper with this.


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, November 22, 1858.

FRIEND RICKETSON,--I thank you for your "History."[90] Though I have
not yet read it again, I have looked far enough to see that I like the
homeliness of it; that is, the good, old-fashioned way of writing, as
if you actually lived where you wrote. A man's interest in a single
bluebird is worth more than a complete but dry list of the fauna and
flora of a town. It is also a considerable advantage to be able to say
at any time, "If D. R. is not here, here is his book." Alcott being
here, and inquiring after you (whom he has been expecting), I lent the
book to him almost immediately. He talks of going West the latter part
of this week. Channing is here again, as I am told, but I have not
seen him.

I thank you also for the account of the trees. It was to my purpose,
and I hope you got something out of it too. I suppose that the cold
weather prevented your coming here. Suppose you try a winter walk on
skates. Please remember me to your family.

       *       *       *       *       *

Late in November, 1858, Cholmondeley, who had not written for a year
and six months, suddenly notified Thoreau from Montreal that he was in
Canada, and would visit Concord the next week. Accordingly he arrived
early in December, and urged his friend to go with him to the West
Indies. John Thoreau, the father, was then in his last illness, and
for that and other reasons Thoreau could not accept the invitation;
but he detained Cholmondeley in Concord some days, and took him to New
Bedford, December 8th, having first written this note to Mr.
Ricketson:--

"Thomas Cholmondeley, my English acquaintance, is here, on his way to
the West Indies. He wants to see New Bedford, a whaling town. I tell
him I would like to introduce him to you there,--thinking more of his
seeing you than New Bedford. So we propose to come your way to-morrow.
Excuse this short notice, for the time is short. If on any account it
is inconvenient to see us, you will treat us accordingly."

Of this visit and his English visitor, Mr. Ricketson wrote in his
journal the next day:--

"We were all much pleased with Mr. Cholmondeley. He is a tall spare
man, thirty-five years of age, of fair and fresh complexion, blue
eyes, light-brown and fine hair, nose small and Roman, beard light and
worn full, with a mustache. A man of fine culture and refinement of
manners, educated at Oriel College, Oxford, of an old Cheshire family
by his father, a clergyman. He wore a black velvet sack coat, and
lighter-colored trousers,--a sort of genteel traveling suit; perhaps a
cap, but by no means a fashionable 'castor.' He reminded me of our
dear friend, George William Curtis." Few greater compliments could
this diarist give than to compare a visitor to Curtis, the lamented.

Mr. Cholmondeley left Concord for the South, going as far as to
Virginia, in December and January; then came back to Concord the 20th
of January, 1859, and after a few days returned to Canada, and thence
to England by way of Jamaica. He was in London when Theodore Parker
reached there from Santa Cruz, in June, and called on him, with offers
of service; but does not seem to have heard of Parker's death till I
wrote him in May, 1861. At my parting with him in Concord, he gave me
money with which to buy grapes for the invalid father of Thoreau,--an
instance of his constant consideration for others; the Thoreaus hardly
affording such luxuries as hothouse grapes for the sick. Sophia
Thoreau, who perhaps was more appreciative of him than her more
stoical brother, said after his death, "We have always had the truest
regard for him, as a person of rare integrity, great benevolence, and
the sincerest friendliness." This well describes the man whose
every-day guise was literally set down by Mr. Ricketson.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, January 1, 1859.

MR. BLAKE,--It may interest you to hear that Cholmondeley has been
this way again, _via_ Montreal and Lake Huron, going to the West
Indies, or rather to Weiss-nicht-wo, whither he urges me to accompany
him. He is rather more demonstrative than before, and, on the whole,
what would be called "a good fellow,"--is a man of principle, and
quite reliable, but very peculiar. I have been to New Bedford with
him, to show him a whaling town and Ricketson. I was glad to hear that
you had called on R. How did you like him? I suspect that you did not
see one another fairly.

I have lately got back to that glorious society called Solitude, where
we meet our friends continually, and can imagine the outside world
also to be peopled. Yet some of my acquaintance would fain hustle me
into the almshouse for _the sake of society_, as if I were pining for
that diet, when I seem to myself a most befriended man, and find
constant employment. However, they do not believe a word I say. They
have got a club, the handle of which is in the Parker House at Boston,
and with this they beat me from time to time, expecting to make me
tender or minced meat, so fit for a club to dine off.

     "Hercules with his club
     The Dragon did drub;
     But More of More Hall
     With nothing at all,
     He slew the Dragon of Wantley."

Ah! that More of More Hall knew what fair play was. Channing, who
wrote to me about it once, brandishing the club vigorously (being set
on by another, probably), says _now_, seriously, that he is sorry to
find by my letters that I am "absorbed in politics," and adds, begging
my pardon for his plainness, "Beware of an extraneous life!" and so he
does his duty, and washes his hands of me. I tell him that it is as
if he should say to the sloth, that fellow that creeps so slowly along
a tree, and cries _ai_ from time to time, "Beware of dancing!"

The doctors are all agreed that I am suffering for want of society.
Was never a case like it. First, I did not know that I was suffering
at all. Secondly, as an Irishman might say, I had thought it was
indigestion of the society I got.

As for the Parker House, I went there once, when the Club[91] was
away, but I found it hard to see through the cigar smoke, and men were
deposited about in chairs over the marble floor, as thick as legs of
bacon in a smoke-house. It was all smoke, and no salt, Attic or other.
The only room in Boston which I visit with alacrity is the Gentlemen's
Room at the Fitchburg Depot, where I wait for the cars, sometimes for
two hours, in order to get out of town. It is a paradise to the Parker
House, for no smoking is allowed, and there is far more retirement. A
large and respectable club of us hire it (Town and Country Club), and
I am pretty sure to find some one there whose face is set the same
way as my own.

My last essay, on which I am still engaged, is called "Autumnal
Tints." I do not know how readable (_i. e._, by me to others) it will
be.

I met Mr. James the other night at Emerson's, at an Alcottian
conversation, at which, however, Alcott did not talk much, being
disturbed by James's opposition. The latter is a hearty man enough,
with whom you can differ very satisfactorily, on account of both his
doctrines and his good temper. He utters _quasi_ philanthropic dogmas
in a metaphysic dress; but they are for all practical purposes very
crude. He charges society with all the crime committed, and praises
the criminal for committing it. But I think that all the remedies he
suggests out of his head--for he goes no farther, hearty as he
is--would leave us about where we are now. For, of course, it is not
by a gift of turkeys on Thanksgiving Day that he proposes to convert
the criminal, but by a true sympathy with each one,--with him, among
the rest, who lyingly tells the world from the gallows that he has
never been treated kindly by a single mortal since he was born. But it
is not so easy a thing to sympathize with another, though you may have
the best disposition to do it. There is Dobson over the hill. Have not
you and I and all the world been trying, ever since he was born, to
sympathize with him? (as doubtless he with us), and yet we have got no
farther than to send him to the house of correction once at least; and
he, on the other hand, as I hear, has sent us to another place several
times. This is the real state of things, as I understand it, at least
so far as James's remedies go. We are now, alas! exercising what
charity we actually have, and new laws would not give us any more.
But, perchance, we might make some improvements in the house of
correction. You and I are Dobson; what will James do for us?

Have you found at last in your wanderings a place where the solitude
is sweet?

What mountain are you camping on nowadays? Though I had a good time at
the mountains, I confess that the journey did not bear any fruit that
I know of. I did not expect it would. The mode of it was not simple
and adventurous enough. You must first have made an infinite demand,
and not unreasonably, but after a corresponding outlay, have an
all-absorbing purpose, and at the same time that your feet bear you
hither and thither, travel much more in imagination.

To let the mountains slide,--live at home like a traveler. It should
not be in vain that these things are shown us from day to day. Is not
each withered leaf that I see in my walks something which I have
traveled to find?--traveled, who can tell how far? What a fool he must
be who thinks that his El Dorado is anywhere but where he lives!

We are always, methinks, in some kind of ravine, though our bodies may
walk the smooth streets of Worcester. Our souls (I use this word for
want of a better) are ever perched on its rocky sides, overlooking
that lowland. (What a more than Tuckerman's Ravine is the body itself,
in which the "soul" is encamped, when you come to look into it!
However, eagles always have chosen such places for their eyries.)

Thus is it ever with your fair cities of the plain. Their streets may
be paved with silver and gold, and six carriages roll abreast in them,
but the real _homes_ of the citizens are in the Tuckerman's Ravines
which ray out from that centre into the mountains round about, one
from each man, woman, and child. The masters of life have so ordered
it. That is their _beau-ideal_ of a country-seat. There is no danger
of being _tuckered_ out before you get to it.

So we live in Worcester and in Concord, each man taking his exercise
regularly in his ravine, like a lion in his cage, and sometimes
spraining his ankle there. We have very few clear days, and a great
many small plagues which keep us busy. Sometimes, I suppose, you hear
a neighbor halloo (Brown, maybe) and think it is a bear. Nevertheless,
on the whole, we think it very grand and exhilarating, this ravine
life. It is a capital advantage withal, living so high, the excellent
drainage of that city of God. Routine is but a shallow and
insignificant sort of ravine, such as the ruts are, the conduits of
puddles. But these ravines are the source of mighty streams,
precipitous, icy, savage, as they are, haunted by bears and
loup-cerviers; there are born not only Sacos and Amazons, but prophets
who will redeem the world. The at last smooth and fertilizing water at
which nations drink and navies supply themselves begins with melted
glaciers, and burst thunder-spouts. Let us pray that, if we are not
flowing through some Mississippi valley which we fertilize,--and it is
not likely we are,--we may know ourselves shut in between grim and
mighty mountain walls amid the clouds, falling a thousand feet in a
mile, through dwarfed fir and spruce, over the rocky insteps of
slides, being exercised in our minds, and so developed.

     CONCORD, January 19, 1859.

MR. BLAKE,--If I could have given a favorable report as to the
skating, I should have answered you earlier. About a week before you
wrote there was good skating; there is now none. As for the lecture, I
shall be glad to come. I cannot now say when, but I will let you know,
I think within a week or ten days at most, and will then leave you a
week clear to make the arrangements in. I will bring something else
than "What shall it profit a Man?" My father is very sick, and has
been for a long time, so that there is the more need of me at home.
This occurs to me, even when contemplating so short an excursion as to
Worcester.

I want very much to see or hear your account of your adventures in the
Ravine,[92] and I trust I shall do so when I come to Worcester.
Cholmondeley has been here again, returning from Virginia (for he went
no farther south) to Canada; and will go thence to Europe, he thinks,
in the spring, and never ramble any more. (January 29.) I am expecting
daily that my father will die, therefore I cannot leave home at
present. I will write you again within ten days.

       *       *       *       *       *

The death of John Thoreau (who was born October 8, 1787) occurred
February 3d, and Thoreau gave his lecture on "Autumnal Tints" at
Worcester, February 22, 1859. Mrs. Thoreau survived all her children
except Sophia, and died in 1872.

At his fathers death, Thoreau sent a newspaper announcement of it to
Ricketson, who had already seen it mentioned by Channing in the
_Mercury_. Ricketson at once wrote, to pay his tribute to the
character of the elder Thoreau, saying: "I have rarely met a man who
inspired me with more respect. I remember with pleasure a ramble I
took with him about Concord some two or three years ago, at a time
when you were away from home; on which occasion I was much impressed
with his good sense, his fine social nature, and his genuine
hospitality." Of this remark Thoreau took notice in his interesting
reply.


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, 12th February, 1859.

FRIEND RICKETSON,--I thank you for your kind letter. I sent you the
notice of my father's death as much because you knew him as because
you knew me. I can hardly realize that he is dead. He had been sick
about two years, and at last declined rather rapidly, though steadily.
Till within a week or ten days before he died he was hoping to see
another spring, but he then discovered that this was a vain
expectation, and, thinking that he was dying, he took his leave of us
several times within a week before his departure. Once or twice he
expressed a slight impatience at the delay. He was quite conscious to
the last, and his death was so easy that, though we had all been
sitting around the bed for an hour or more expecting that event (as we
had sat before), he was gone at last, almost before we were aware of
it.

I am glad to read what you say of his social nature. I think I may say
that he was wholly unpretending; and there was this peculiarity in his
aim, that though he had pecuniary difficulties to contend with the
greater part of his life, he always studied how to make a _good_
article, pencil or other (for he practiced various arts), and was
never satisfied with what he had produced. Nor was he ever disposed in
the least to put off a poor one for the sake of pecuniary gain,--as if
he labored for a higher end.

Though he was not very old, and was not a native of Concord, I think
that he was, on the whole, more identified with Concord street than
any man now alive, having come here when he was about twelve years
old, and set up for himself as a merchant here, at the age of
twenty-one, fifty years ago. As I sat in a circle the other evening
with my mother and sister, my mother's two sisters, and my father's
two sisters, it occurred to me that my father, though seventy-one,
belonged to the youngest four of the eight who recently composed our
family.

How swiftly at last, but unnoticed, a generation passes away! Three
years ago I was called with my father to be a witness to the signing
of our neighbor Mr. Frost's will. Mr. Samuel Hoar, who was there
writing it, also signed it. I was lately required to go to Cambridge
to testify to the genuineness of the will, being the only one of the
four who could be there, and now I am the only one alive.

My mother and sister thank you heartily for your sympathy. The latter,
in particular, agrees with you in thinking that it is communion with
still living and healthy nature alone which can restore to sane and
cheerful views. I thank you for your invitation to New Bedford, but I
feel somewhat confined here for the present.

I did not know but we should see you the day after Alger was here. It
is not too late for a winter walk in Concord. It does me good to hear
of spring birds, and singing ones too,--for spring seems far away from
Concord yet. I am going to Worcester to read a parlor lecture on the
22d, and shall see Blake and Brown. What if you were to meet me there,
or go with me from here? You would see them to good advantage.
Cholmondeley has been here again, after going as far south as
Virginia, and left for Canada about three weeks ago. He is a good
soul, and I am afraid I did not sufficiently recognize him.

Please remember me to Mrs. Ricketson, and to the rest of your family.

       *       *       *       *       *

A long silence had passed on Thoreau's part before he wrote again to
Ricketson,--nearly two years, in fact,--and his friend complained of
it. He had followed the public utterances of Thoreau with entire
sympathy, although much in advance, in 1859-60, of public opinion
respecting John Brown and slavery, and he had sent him letters and
complimentary verses. Finally, he almost implored Thoreau to renew the
bond of friendship. This will explain the tenor of Thoreau's reply.


TO DANIEL RICKETSON, (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, November 4, 1860.

FRIEND RICKETSON,--I thank you for the verses. They are quite too good
to apply to me. However, I know what a poet's license is, and will not
get in the way.

But what do you mean by that prose? Why will you waste so many regards
on me, and not know what to think of my silence? Infer from it what
you might from the silence of a dense pine wood. It is its natural
condition, except when the winds blow, and the jays scream, and the
chickadee winds up his clock. My silence is just as inhuman as that,
and no more. You know that I never promised to correspond with you,
and so, when I do, I do more than I promised.

Such are my pursuits and habits that I rarely go abroad; and it is
quite a habit with me to decline invitations to do so. Not that I
could not enjoy such visits, if I were not otherwise occupied. I have
enjoyed very much my visits to you, and my rides in your neighborhood,
and am sorry that I cannot enjoy such things oftener; but life is
short, and there are other things also to be done. I admit that you
are more social than I am and far more attentive to "the common
courtesies of life;" but this is partly for the reason that you have
fewer or less exacting private pursuits.

Not to have written a note for a year is with me a very venial
offense. I think that I do not correspond with any one so often as
once in six months.

I have a faint recollection of your invitation referred to; but I
suppose that I had no new nor particular reason for declining, and so
made no new statement. I have felt that you would be glad to see me
almost whenever I got ready to come; but I only offer myself as a rare
visitor, and a still rarer correspondent.

I am very busy, after my fashion, little as there is to show for it,
and feel as if I could not spend many days nor dollars in traveling;
for the shortest visit must have a fair margin to it, and the days
thus affect the weeks, you know. Nevertheless, we cannot forego these
luxuries altogether. You must not regard me as a regular diet, but at
most only as acorns, which, too, are not to be despised,--which, at
least, we love to think are edible in a bracing walk. We have got
along pretty well together in several directions, though we are such
strangers in others.

I hardly know what to say in answer to your letter. Some are
accustomed to write many letters, others very few. I am one of the
last. At any rate, we are pretty sure, if we write at all, to send
those thoughts which we cherish, to that one who, we believe, will
most religiously attend to them.

This life is not for complaint, but for satisfaction. I do not feel
addressed by this letter of yours. It suggests only misunderstanding.
Intercourse may be good; but of what use are complaints and apologies?
Any complaint _I_ have to make is too serious to be uttered, for the
evil cannot be mended.

Turn over a new leaf.

My outdoor harvest this fall has been one Canada lynx, a
fierce-looking fellow, which, it seems, we have hereabouts; eleven
barrels of apples from trees of my own planting; and a large crop of
white oak acorns, which I did not raise.

Please remember me to your family. I have a very pleasant recollection
of your fireside, and I trust that I shall revisit it;--also of your
shanty and the surrounding regions.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, September 26, 1859.

MR. BLAKE,--I am not sure that I am in a fit mood to write to you, for
I feel and think rather too much like a business man, having some very
irksome affairs to attend to these months and years on account of my
family.[93] This is the way I am serving King Admetus, confound him!
If it were not for my relations, I would let the wolves prey on his
flocks to their bellies' content. Such fellows you have to deal with!
herdsmen of some other king, or of the same, who tell no tale, but in
the sense of counting their flocks, and then lie drunk under a hedge.
How is your grist ground? Not by some murmuring stream, while you lie
dreaming on the bank; but, it seems, you must take hold with your
hands, and shove the wheel round. You can't depend on streams, poor
feeble things! You can't depend on worlds, left to themselves; but
you've got to oil them and goad them along. In short, you've got to
carry on two farms at once,--the farm on the earth and the farm in
your mind. Those Crimean and Italian battles were mere boys'
play,--they are the scrapes into which truants get. But what a battle
a man must fight everywhere to maintain his standing army of thoughts,
and march with them in orderly array through the always hostile
country! How many enemies there are to sane thinking! Every soldier
has succumbed to them before he enlists for those other battles. Men
may sit in chambers, seemingly safe and sound, and yet despair, and
turn out at last only hollowness and dust within, like a Dead Sea
apple. A standing army of numerous, brave, and well-disciplined
thoughts, and you at the head of them, marching straight to your
goal,--how to bring this about is the problem, and Scott's Tactics
will not help you to it. Think of a poor fellow begirt only with a
sword-belt, and no such staff of athletic thoughts! his brains
rattling as he walks and _talks_! These are your prætorian guard. It
is easy enough to maintain a family, or a state, but it is hard to
maintain these children of your brain (or say, rather, these guests
that trust to enjoy your hospitality), they make such great demands;
and yet, he who does only the former, and loses the power to _think_
originally, or as only he ever can, fails miserably. Keep up the fires
of thought, and all will go well.

Zouaves?--pish! How you can overrun a country, climb any rampart, and
carry any fortress, with an army of _alert_ thoughts!--thoughts that
send their bullets home to heaven's door,--with which you can _take_
the whole world, without paying for it, or robbing anybody. See, the
conquering hero comes! You _fail_ in your thoughts, or you _prevail_
in your thoughts only. Provided you _think_ well, the heavens falling,
or the earth gaping, will be the music for you to march by. No foe can
ever see you, or you him; you cannot so much as _think_ of him. Swords
have no edges, bullets no penetration, for such a contest. In your
mind must be a liquor which will dissolve the world whenever it is
dropt in it. There is no universal solvent but this, and all things
together cannot saturate it. It will hold the universe in solution,
and yet be as translucent as ever. The vast machine may indeed roll
over our toes, and we not know it, but it would rebound and be staved
to pieces like an empty barrel, if it should strike fair and square on
the smallest and least angular of a man's thoughts.

You seem not to have taken Cape Cod the right way. I think that you
should have persevered in walking on the beach and on the bank, even
to the land's end, however soft, and so, by long knocking at Ocean's
gate, have gained admittance at last,--better, if separately, and in a
storm, not knowing where you would sleep by night, or eat by day. Then
you should have given a day to the sand behind Provincetown, and
ascended the hills there, and been blown on considerably. I hope that
you like to remember the journey better than you did to make it.

I have been confined at home all this year, but I am not aware that I
have grown any rustier than was to be expected. One while I explored
the bottom of the river pretty extensively. I have engaged to read a
lecture to Parker's society on the 9th of October next.

I am off--a-barberrying.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, October 31, 1859.

MR. BLAKE,--I spoke to my townsmen last evening on "The Character of
Captain Brown, now in the Clutches of the Slaveholder." I should like
to speak to any company at Worcester who may wish to hear me; and will
come if only my expenses are paid. I think we should express ourselves
at once, while Brown is alive. The sooner the better. Perhaps
Higginson may like to have a meeting. Wednesday evening would be a
good time. The people here are deeply interested in the matter. Let me
have an answer as soon as may be.

P. S.--I may be engaged toward the end of the week.

     HENRY D. THOREAU.

This address on John Brown was one of the first public utterances in
favor of that hero; it was made up mainly from the entries in
Thoreau's journals, since I had introduced Brown to him, and he to
Emerson, in March, 1857; and especially from those pages that Thoreau
had written after the news of Brown's capture in Virginia had reached
him. It was first given in the vestry of the old parish church in
Concord (where, in 1774, the Provincial Congress of Massachusetts had
met to prepare for armed resistance to British tyranny); was repeated
at Worcester the same week, and before a great audience in Boston, the
following Sunday,--after which it was published in the newspapers, and
had a wide reading. Mr. Alcott in his diary mentions it under date of
Sunday, October 30, thus: "Thoreau reads a paper on John Brown, his
virtues, spirit, and deeds, this evening, and to the delight of his
company,--the best that could be gathered at short notice,--and among
them Emerson. (November 4.) Thoreau calls and reports about the
reading of his lecture on Brown at Boston and Worcester. He has been
the first to speak and celebrate the hero's courage and magnanimity;
it is these that he discerns and praises. The men have much in
common,--the sturdy manliness, straightforwardness, and independence.
(November 5.) Ricketson from New Bedford arrives; he and Thoreau take
supper with us. Thoreau talks freely and enthusiastically about
Brown,--denouncing the Union, the President, the States, and Virginia
particularly; wishes to publish his late speech, and has seen Boston
publishers, but failed to find any to print it for him." It was soon
after published, along with Emerson's two speeches in favor of Brown,
by a new Boston publishing house (Thayer & Eldridge), in a volume
called "Echoes of Harper's Ferry," edited by the late James Redpath,
Brown's first biographer. In the following summer, Thoreau sent a
second paper on Brown (written soon after his execution) to be read at
a commemoration of the martyr, beside his grave among the Adirondack
Mountains. This is mentioned in his letter to Sophia Thoreau, July 8,
1860. He took an active part in arranging for the funeral service in
honor of Brown, at Concord, the day of his death, December 2, 1859.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, May 20, 1860.

MR. BLAKE,--I must endeavor to pay some of my debts to you. To begin
where we left off, then.

The presumption is that _we_ are always the same; our opportunities,
and Nature herself, fluctuating. Look at mankind. No great difference
between two, apparently; perhaps the same height, and breadth, and
weight; and yet, to the man who sits most east, this life is a
weariness, routine, dust and ashes, and he drowns his imaginary
_cares_ (!) (a sort of friction among his vital organs) in a bowl. But
to the man who sits most west, his _contemporary_ (!), it is a field
for all noble endeavors, an elysium, the dwelling-place of heroes and
demigods. The former complains that he has a thousand affairs to
attend to; but he does not realize that his affairs (though they may
be a thousand) and he are one.

Men and boys are learning all kinds of trades but how to make _men_ of
themselves. They learn to make houses; but they are not so well
housed, they are not so contented in their houses, as the woodchucks
in their holes. What is the use of a house if you haven't got a
tolerable planet to put it on?--if you cannot tolerate the planet it
is on? Grade the ground first. If a man believes and expects great
things of himself, it makes no odds where you put him, or what you
show him (of course _you_ cannot put him anywhere, nor show him
anything), he will be surrounded by grandeur. He is in the condition
of a healthy and hungry man, who says to himself,--How sweet this
crust is! If he despairs of himself, then Tophet is his
dwelling-place, and he is in the condition of a sick man who is
disgusted with the fruits of finest flavor.

Whether he sleeps or wakes,--whether he runs or walks,--whether he
uses a microscope or a telescope, or his naked eye,--a man never
discovers anything, never overtakes anything, or leaves anything
behind, but himself. Whatever he says or does, he merely reports
himself. If he is in love, he _loves_; if he is in heaven, he
_enjoys_; if he is in hell, he _suffers_. It is his condition that
determines his locality.

The principal, the only, thing a man makes, is his condition of fate.
Though commonly he does not know it, nor put up a sign to this effect,
"My own destiny made and mended here." (Not _yours_.) He is a master
workman in the business. He works twenty-four hours a day at it, and
gets it done. Whatever else he neglects or botches, no man was ever
known to neglect this work. A great many pretend to make _shoes_
chiefly, and would scout the idea that they make the hard times which
they experience.

Each reaching and aspiration is an instinct with which all nature
consists and coöperates, and therefore it is not in vain. But alas!
each relaxing and desperation is an instinct too. To be active, well,
happy, implies rare courage. To be ready to fight in a duel or a
battle implies desperation, or that you hold your life cheap.

If you take this life to be simply what old religious folks pretend (I
mean the effete, gone to seed in a drought, mere human galls stung by
the devil once), then all your joy and serenity is reduced to grinning
and bearing it. The fact is, you have got to take the world on your
shoulders like Atlas, and "put along" with it. You will do this for an
idea's sake, and your success will be in proportion to your devotion
to ideas. It may make your back ache occasionally, but you will have
the satisfaction of hanging it or twirling it to suit yourself.
Cowards suffer, heroes enjoy. After a long day's walk with it, pitch
it into a hollow place, sit down and eat your luncheon. Unexpectedly,
by some immortal thoughts, you will be compensated. The bank whereon
you sit will be a fragrant and flowery one, and your world in the
hollow a sleek and light gazelle.

Where is the "unexplored land" but in our own untried enterprises? To
an adventurous spirit any place--London, New York, Worcester, or his
own yard--is "unexplored land," to seek which Frémont and Kane travel
so far. To a sluggish and defeated spirit even the Great Basin and the
Polaris are trivial places. If they can get there (and, indeed, they
are there now), they will want to sleep, and give it up, just as they
always do. These are the regions of the Known and of the Unknown. What
is the use of going right over the old track again? There is an adder
in the path which your own feet have worn. You must make tracks into
the Unknown. That is what you have your board and clothes for. Why do
you ever mend your clothes, unless that, wearing them, you may mend
your ways? Let us sing.


TO SOPHIA THOREAU (AT CAMPTON, N. H.).

     CONCORD, July 8, 1860.

DEAR SOPHIA,--Mother reminds me that I must write to you, if only a
few lines, though I have sprained my thumb, so that it is questionable
whether I can write legibly, if at all. I can't "bear on" much. What
is worse, I believe that I have sprained my brain too--that is, it
sympathizes with my thumb. But that is no excuse, I suppose, for
writing a letter in such a case is like sending a newspaper, only a
hint to let you know that "all is well,"--but my thumb.

I hope that you begin to derive some benefit from that more
mountainous air which you are breathing. Have you had a distinct view
of the Franconia Notch Mountains (blue peaks in the northern horizon)?
which I told you you could get from the road in Campton, probably from
some other points nearer. Such a view of the mountains is more
memorable than any other. Have you been to Squam Lake or overlooked
it? I should think that you could make an excursion to some mountain
in that direction from which you could see the lake and mountains
generally. Is there no friend of N. P. Rogers who can tell you where
the "lions" are?

Of course I did not go to North Elba,[94] but I sent some
reminiscences of last fall. I hear that John Brown, Jr., has now come
to Boston for a few days. Mr. Sanborn's case, it is said, will come on
after some murder cases have been disposed of here.

I have just been invited formally to be present at the annual picnic
of Theodore Parker's society (that was), at Waverley, next Wednesday,
and to make some remarks. But that is wholly out of my line. I do not
go to picnics, even in Concord, you know.

Mother and Aunt Sophia rode to Acton in time yesterday. I suppose that
you have heard that Mr. Hawthorne has come home. I went to meet him
the other evening and found that he has not altered, except that he
was looking quite brown after his voyage. He is as simple and
childlike as ever.

I believe that I have fairly scared the kittens away, at last, by my
pretended fierceness, which was. I will consider my thumb--and your
eyes.

     HENRY.


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, August 3, 1860.

MR. BLAKE,--I some time ago asked Channing if he would not spend a
week with me on Monadnock; but he did not answer decidedly. Lately he
has talked of an excursion somewhere, but I said that _now_ I must
wait till my sister returned from Plymouth, N. H. She has
returned,--and accordingly, on receiving your note this morning, I
made known its contents to Channing, in order to see how far I was
engaged with him. The result is that he decides to go to Monadnock
to-morrow morning;[95] so I must defer making an excursion with you
and Brown to another season. Perhaps you will call as you pass the
mountain. I send this by the earliest mail.

P. S.--That was a very insufficient visit which you made here the last
time. My mother is better, though far from well; and if you should
chance along here any time after your journey, I trust that we shall
all do better.

       *       *       *       *       *

The mention by Thoreau of John Brown and my "case" recalls to me an
incident of those excited days which followed the attack by Brown on
slavery in Virginia. The day after Brown's death, but before the
execution of his comrades, I received a message from the late Dr.
David Thayer of Boston, implying, as I thought, that a son of Brown
was at his house, whither I hurried to meet him. Instead, I found
young F. J. Merriam of Boston, who had escaped with Owen Brown from
Harper's Ferry, and was now in Boston to raise another party against
the slaveholders. He was unfit to lead or even join in such a
desperate undertaking, and we insisted he should return to safety in
Canada,--a large reward being offered for his seizure. He agreed to go
back to Canada that night by the Fitchburg Railroad; but in his
hot-headed way he took the wrong train, which ran no farther than
Concord,--and found himself in the early evening at my house, where my
sister received him, but insisted that I should not see him, lest I
might be questioned about my guest. While he had supper and went to
bed, I posted down to Mr. Emerson's and engaged his horse and covered
wagon, to be ready at sunrise,--he asking no questions. In the same
way I engaged Mr. Thoreau to drive his friend's horse to South Acton
the next morning, and there put on board the first Canadian train a
Mr. Lockwood, whom he would find at my house. Thoreau readily consented,
asked no questions, walked to the Emerson stable the next morning,
found the horse ready, drove him to my door, and took up Merriam,
under the name of Lockwood,--neither knowing who the other was.
Merriam was so flighty that, though he had agreed to go to Montreal,
and knew that his life might depend on getting there early, he declared
he must see Mr. Emerson, to lay before him his plan for invading the
South, and consult him about some moral questions that troubled his
mind. His companion listened gravely,--and hurried the horse towards
Acton. Merriam grew more positive and suspicious,--"Perhaps YOU are
Mr. Emerson; you look somewhat like him."[96] "No, I am not," said
Thoreau, and drove steadily away from Concord. "Well, then, I am going
back," said the youth, and flung himself out of the wagon. How Thoreau
got him in again, he never told me; but I suspected some judicious
force, accompanying the grave persuasive speech natural to our friend.
At any rate, he took his man to Acton, saw him safe on the train, and
reported to me that "Mr. Lockwood had taken passage for Canada," where
he arrived that night. Nothing more passed between us until, more than
two years after, he inquired one day, in his last illness, who my
fugitive was. Merriam was then out of danger in that way, and had been
for months a soldier in the Union army, where he died. I therefore
said that "Lockwood" was the grandson of his mother's old friend,
Francis Jackson, and had escaped from Maryland. In return he gave me
the odd incidents of their drive, and mentioned that he had spoken of
the affair to his mother only since his illness. So reticent and
practically useful could he be; as Channing says, "He made no useless
professions, never asked one of those questions which destroy all
relation; but he was on the spot at the time, he meant friendship,
and meant nothing else, and stood by it without the slightest
abatement."


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, November 4, 1860.

MR. BLAKE,--I am glad to hear any particulars of your excursion. As
for myself, I looked out for you somewhat on that Monday, when, it
appears, you passed Monadnock; turned my glass upon several parties
that were ascending the mountain half a mile on one side of us. In
short, I came as near to seeing you as you to seeing me. I have no
doubt that we should have had a good time if you had come, for I had,
all ready, two good spruce houses, in which you could stand up,
complete in all respects, half a mile apart, and you and B. could have
lodged by yourselves in one, if not with us.

We made an excellent beginning of our mountain life.[97] You may
remember that the Saturday previous was a stormy day. Well, we went up
in the rain,--wet through,--and found ourselves in a cloud there at
mid-afternoon, in no situation to look about for the best place for a
camp. So I proceeded at once, through the cloud, to that memorable
stone, "chunk yard," in which we made our humble camp once, and there,
after putting our packs under a rock, having a good hatchet, I
proceeded to build a substantial house, which Channing declared the
handsomest he ever saw. (He never camped out before, and was, no
doubt, prejudiced in its favor.) This was done about dark, and by that
time we were nearly as wet as if we had stood in a hogshead of water.
We then built a fire before the door, directly on the site of our
little camp of two years ago, and it took a long time to burn through
its remains to the earth beneath. Standing before this, and turning
round slowly, like meat that is roasting, we were as dry, if not
drier, than ever, after a few hours, and so at last we "turned in."

This was a great deal better than going up there in fair weather, and
having no adventure (not knowing how to appreciate either fair weather
or foul) but dull, commonplace sleep in a useless house, and before a
comparatively useless fire,--such as we get every night. Of course we
thanked our stars, when we saw them, which was about midnight, that
they had seemingly withdrawn for a season. We had the mountain all to
ourselves that afternoon and night. There was nobody going up that day
to engrave his name on the summit, nor to gather blueberries. The
genius of the mountains saw us starting from Concord, and it said,
There come two of our folks. Let us get ready for them. Get up a
serious storm, that will send a-packing these holiday guests. (They
may have their say another time.) Let us receive them with true
mountain hospitality,--kill the fatted cloud. Let them know the value
of a spruce roof, and of a fire of dead spruce stumps. Every bush
dripped tears of joy at our advent. Fire did its best, and received
our thanks. What could fire have done in fair weather? Spruce roof got
its share of our blessings. And then, such a view of the wet rocks,
with the wet lichens on them, as we had the next morning, but did not
get again!

We and the mountain had a sound season, as the saying is. How glad we
were to be wet, in order that we might be dried! How glad we were of
the storm which made our house seem like a new home to us! This day's
experience was indeed lucky, for we did not have a thunder-shower
during all our stay. Perhaps our host reserved this attention in order
to tempt us to come again.

Our next house was more substantial still. One side was rock, good for
durability; the floor the same; and the roof which I made would have
upheld a horse. I stood on it to do the shingling.

I noticed, when I was at the White Mountains last, several nuisances
which render traveling thereabouts unpleasant. The chief of these was
the mountain houses. I might have supposed that the main attraction of
that region, even to citizens, lay in its wildness and unlikeness to
the city, and yet they make it as much like the city as they can
afford to. I heard that the Crawford House was lighted with gas, and
had a large saloon, with its band of music, for dancing. But give me a
spruce house made in the rain.

  [Illustration: _From the Summit of Monadnock_]

An old Concord farmer tells me that he ascended Monadnock once, and
danced on the top. How did that happen? Why, he being up there, a
party of young men and women came up, bringing boards and a fiddler;
and, having laid down the boards, they made a level floor, on which
they danced to the music of the fiddle. I suppose the tune was
"Excelsior." This reminds me of the fellow who climbed to the top of a
very high spire, stood upright on the ball, and hurrahed for--what?
Why, for Harrison and Tyler. That's the kind of sound which most
ambitious people emit when they culminate. They are wont to be
singularly frivolous in the thin atmosphere; they can't contain
themselves, though our comfort and their safety require it; it takes
the pressure of many atmospheres to do this; and hence they helplessly
evaporate there. It would seem that as they ascend, they breathe
shorter and shorter, and, at each _expiration_, some of their wits
leave them, till, when they reach the pinnacle, they are so
light-headed as to be fit only to show how the wind sits. I suspect
that Emerson's criticism called "Monadnoc" was inspired, not by
remembering the inhabitants of New Hampshire as they are in the
valleys, so much as by meeting some of them on the mountain-top.

After several nights' experience, Channing came to the conclusion that
he was "lying outdoors," and inquired what was the largest beast that
might nibble his legs there. I fear that he did not improve all the
night, as he might have done, to sleep. I had asked him to go and
spend a week there. We spent five nights, being gone six days, for C.
suggested that six working days made a week, and I saw that he was
ready to _decamp_. However, he found his account in it as well as I.

We were seen to go up in the rain, grim and silent, like two genii of
the storm, by Fassett's men or boys; but we were never identified
afterward, though we were the subject of some conversation which we
overheard. Five hundred persons at least came on to the mountain while
we were there, but not one found our camp. We saw one party of three
ladies and two gentlemen spread their blankets and spend the night on
the top, and heard them converse; but they did not know that they had
neighbors who were comparatively old settlers. We spared them the
chagrin which that knowledge would have caused them, and let them
print their story in a newspaper accordingly.

Yes, to meet men on an honest and simple footing, meet with rebuffs,
suffer from sore feet, as you did,--ay, and from a sore heart, as
perhaps you also did,--all that is excellent. What a pity that that
young prince[98] could not enjoy a little of the legitimate experience
of traveling--be dealt with simply and truly, though rudely. He might
have been invited to some hospitable house in the country, had his
bowl of bread and milk set before him, with a clean pinafore; been
told that there were the punt and the fishing-rod, and he could amuse
himself as he chose; might have swung a few birches, dug out a
woodchuck, and had a regular good time, and finally been sent to bed
with the boys,--and so never have been introduced to Mr. Everett at
all. I have no doubt that this would have been a far more memorable
and valuable experience than he got.

The snow-clad summit of Mt. Washington must have been a very
interesting sight from Wachusett. How wholesome winter is, seen far or
near; how good, above all mere sentimental, warm-blooded,
short-lived, soft-hearted, _moral_ goodness, commonly so called. Give
me the goodness which has forgotten its own deeds,--which God has seen
to be good, and let be. None of your _just made perfect_,--pickled
eels! All that will save them will be their picturesqueness, as with
blasted trees. Whatever is, and is not ashamed to be, is good. I value
no moral goodness or greatness unless it is good or great, even as
that snowy peak is. Pray, how could thirty feet of bowels improve it?
Nature is goodness crystallized. You looked into the land of promise.
Whatever beauty we behold, the more it is distant, serene, and cold,
the purer and more durable it is. It is better to warm ourselves with
ice than with fire.

Tell Brown that he sent me more than the price of the book, viz., a
word from himself, for which I am greatly his debtor.

       *       *       *       *       *

Thoreau began to be more seriously ill than he had been for some
years, early in December, 1860. He exposed himself unduly in one of
his walks, while counting the rings on stumps of trees, amid snow. He
ceased much of his small activity of letter-writing; but, in
addressing Ricketson the next spring, he took the unusual pains of
writing him a letter of some length which he never sent. It was found
among his papers after death,--the first draft of it, which ran as
follows, but was left a fragment:--


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     Concord, March 19, 1861.

FRIEND R,--Your letter reached me in due time, but I had already heard
the bluebirds. They were here on the 26th of February at least,--but
not yet do the larks sing or the flickers call, with us. The bluebirds
come again, as does the same spring, but it does not find the same
mortals here to greet it. You remember Minott's cottage on the
hillside,--well, it finds some change there, for instance. The little
gray hip-roofed cottage was occupied at the beginning of February,
this year, by George Minott and his sister Mary, respectively 78 and
80 years old, and Miss Potter, 74. These had been its permanent
occupants for many years. Minott had been on his last legs for some
time,--at last off his legs, expecting weekly to take his
departure,--a burden to himself and friends,--yet dry and natural as
ever. His sister took care of him, and supported herself and family
with her needle, as usual. He lately willed his little property to
her, as a slight compensation for her care. Feb. 13 their sister, 86
or 87, who lived across the way, died. Miss Minott had taken cold in
visiting her, and was so sick that she could not go to her funeral.
She herself died of lung fever[99] on the 18th (which was said to be
the same disease that her sister had),--having just willed her
property back to George, and added her own mite to it. Miss Potter,
too, had now become ill,--too ill to attend the funeral,--and she died
of the same disease on the 23d. All departed as gently as the sun
goes down, leaving George alone.

I called to see him the other day,--the 27th of February, a remarkably
pleasant spring day,--and as I was climbing the sunny slope to his
strangely deserted house, I heard the first bluebirds upon the elm
that hangs over it. They had come as usual, though some who used to
hear them were gone. Even Minott had not heard them, though the door
was open,--for he was thinking of other things. Perhaps there will be
a time when the bluebirds themselves will not return any more.

I hear that George, a few days after this, called out to his niece,
who had come to take care of him, and was in the next room, to know if
she did not feel lonely? "Yes, I do," said she. "So do I," added he.
He said he was like an old oak, all shattered and decaying. "I am
sure, Uncle," said his niece, "you are not much like an oak!" "I
mean," said he, "that I am like an oak or any other tree, inasmuch as
I cannot stir from where I am."

       *       *       *       *       *

Either this topic was too pathetic for Thoreau to finish the letter,
or perchance he thought it not likely to interest his friend; for he
threw aside this draft for three days, and then, with the same
beginning, wrote a very different letter. The Minotts were old
familiar acquaintance, and related to that Captain Minott whom
Thoreau's grandmother married as a second husband. George was his "old
man of Verona," who had not left Concord for more than forty years,
except to stray over the town bounds in hunting or wood-ranging; and
Mary was the "tailoress" who for years made Thoreau's garments.


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, March 22, 1861.

FRIEND RICKETSON,--The bluebird was here the 26th of February, at
least, which is one day earlier than you date; but I have not heard of
larks nor pigeon woodpeckers. To tell the truth, I am not on the alert
for the signs of spring, not having had any winter yet. I took a
severe cold about the 3d of December, which at length resulted in a
kind of bronchitis, so that I have been confined to the house ever
since, excepting a very few experimental trips as far as the
post-office in some particularly fine noons. My health otherwise has
not been affected in the least, nor my spirits. I have simply been
imprisoned for so long, and it has not prevented my doing a good deal
of reading and the like.

Channing has looked after me very faithfully; says he has made a study
of my case, and knows me better than I know myself, etc., etc. Of
course, if I knew how it began, I should know better how it would end.
I trust that when warm weather comes I shall begin to pick up my
crumbs. I thank you for your invitation to come to New Bedford, and
will bear it in mind; but at present my health will not permit my
leaving home.

The day I received your letter, Blake and Brown arrived here, having
walked from Worcester in two days, though Alcott, who happened in soon
after, could not understand what pleasure they found in walking
across the country in this season, when the ways were so unsettled. I
had a solid talk with them for a day and a half--though my pipes were
not in good order--and they went their way again.

You may be interested to hear that Alcott is at present, perhaps, the
most successful man in the town. He had his second annual exhibition
of all the schools in the town, at the Town Hall last Saturday; at
which all the masters and misses did themselves great credit, as I
hear, and of course reflected some on their teachers and parents. They
were making their little speeches from one till six o'clock P. M., to
a large audience, which patiently listened to the end. In the
meanwhile, the children made Mr. Alcott an unexpected present of a
fine edition of "Pilgrim's Progress" and Herbert's Poems, which, of
course, overcame all parties. I inclose an order of exercises.[100]

We had, last night, an old-fashioned northeast snow-storm, far worse
than anything in the winter; and the drifts are now very high above
the fences. The inhabitants are pretty much confined to their houses,
as I was already. All houses are one color, white, with the snow
plastered over them, and you cannot tell whether they have blinds or
not. Our pump has another pump, its ghost, as thick as itself,
sticking to one side of it. The town has sent out teams of eight oxen
each, to break out the roads; and the train due from Boston at 8½ A.
M. has not arrived yet (4 P. M.). All the passing has been a train
from above at 12 M., which also was due at 8½ A. M. Where are the
bluebirds now, think you? I suppose that you have not so much snow at
New Bedford, if any.


TO PARKER PILLSBURY (AT CONCORD N. H.).

     CONCORD, April 10, 1861.

FRIEND PILLSBURY,--I am sorry to say that I have not a copy of
"Walden" which I can spare; and know of none, unless possibly Ticknor
& Fields may have one. I send, nevertheless, a copy of "The Week," the
price of which is one dollar and twenty-five cents, which you can pay
at your convenience.

As for your friend, my prospective reader, I hope he ignores Fort
Sumter, and "Old Abe," and all that; for that is just the most fatal,
and, indeed, the only fatal weapon you can direct against evil, ever;
for, as long as you _know of it_, you are _particeps criminis_. What
business have you, if you are an "angel of light," to be pondering
over the deeds of darkness, reading the _New York Herald_, and the
like?

I do not so much regret the present condition of things in this
country (provided I regret it at all), as I do that I ever heard of
it. I know one or two, who have this year, for the first time, read a
President's Message; but they do not see that this implies a _fall_
in themselves, rather than a _rise_ in the President. Blessed were the
days before you read a President's Message. Blessed are the young, for
they do not read the President's Message. Blessed are they who never
read a newspaper, for they shall see Nature, and, through her, God.

But, alas! _I_ have heard of Sumter and Pickens, and even of Buchanan
(though I did not read his Message). I also read the _New York
Tribune_; but then, I am reading Herodotus and Strabo, and Blodget's
"Climatology," and "Six Years in the Desert of North America," as hard
as I can, to counterbalance it.

By the way, Alcott is at present our most popular and successful man,
and has just published a volume in size, in the shape of the Annual
School Report, which I presume he has sent to you.

Yours, for remembering all good things,

     HENRY D. THOREAU.

Parker Pillsbury, to whom this letter went, was an old friend of the
Thoreau family, with whom he became intimate in the antislavery
agitation, wherein they took part, while he was a famous orator,
celebrated by Emerson in one of his essays. Mr. Pillsbury visited
Thoreau in his last illness, when he could scarcely speak above a
whisper, and, having made to him some remark concerning the future
life, Thoreau replied, "My friend, one world at a time." His petulant
words in this letter concerning national affairs would hardly have
been said a few days later, when, at the call of Abraham Lincoln, the
people rose to protect their government, and every President's Message
became of thrilling interest, even to Thoreau.

Arrangements were now making for the invalid, about whose health his
friends had been anxious for some years, to travel for a better
climate than the New England spring affords, and early in May Thoreau
set out for the upper Mississippi. He thus missed the last letter sent
to him by his English friend Cholmondeley, which I answered, then
forwarded to him at Redwing, in Minnesota. It is of interest enough to
be given here.


T. CHOLMONDELEY TO THOREAU (IN MINNESOTA).

     SHREWSBURY [England], April 23, 1861.

MY DEAR THOREAU,--It is now some time since I wrote to you or heard
from you, but do not suppose that I have forgotten you, or shall ever
cease to cherish in my mind those days at dear old Concord. The last I
heard about you all was from Morton,[101] who was in England about a
year ago; and I hope that he has got over his difficulties and is now
in his own country again. I think he has seen rather more of English
country life than most Yankee tourists; and appeared to find it
_curious_, though I fear he was dulled by our ways; for he was too
full of ceremony and compliments and bows, which is a mistake here;
though very well in Spain. I am afraid he was rather on pins and
needles; but he made a splendid speech at a volunteer supper, and
indeed the _very best_, some said, ever heard in this part of the
country.

We are here in a state of alarm and apprehension, the world being so
troubled in East and West and everywhere. Last year the harvest was
bad and scanty. This year our trade is beginning to feel the events in
America. In reply to the northern tariff, of course we are going to
smuggle as much as we can. The supply of cotton being such a necessity
to us, we must work up India and South Africa a little better. There
is war even in old New Zealand, but not in the same island where my
people are! Besides, we are certainly on the eve of a continental
blaze, _so we are making merry and living while we can_; not being
sure where we shall be this time a year.

Give my affectionate regards to your father, mother, and sister, and
to Mr. Emerson and his family, and to Channing, Sanborn, Ricketson,
Blake, and Morton and Alcott and Parker. A thought arises in my mind
whether I may not be enumerating some dead men! Perhaps Parker is!

These rumors of wars make me wish that we had got done with this
brutal stupidity of war altogether; and I believe, Thoreau, that the
human race will at last get rid of it, though perhaps not in a
creditable way; but such _powers_ will be brought to bear that it will
become monstrous even to the French. Dundonald declared to the last
that he possessed secrets which from their tremendous character would
make war impossible. So peace may be begotten from the machinations of
evil.

Have you heard of any good books lately? I think "Burnt Njal" good,
and believe it to be genuine. "Hast thou not heard" (says Steinrora to
Thangbrand) "how Thor challenged Christ to single combat, and how he
did not dare to fight with Thor?" When Gunnar brandishes his sword,
three swords are seen in air. The account of Ospah and Brodir and
Brian's battle is the only historical account of that engagement,
which the Irish talk so much of; for I place little trust in
O'Halloran's authority, though the outline is the same in both.

Darwin's "Origin of Species" may be fanciful, but it is a move in the
right direction. Emerson's "Conduct of Life" has done me good; but it
will not go down in England for a generation or so. But _these_ are
some of them already a year or two old. The book of the season is Du
Chaillu's "Central Africa," with accounts of the Gorilla, of which you
are aware that you have had a skeleton at Boston for many years. There
is also one in the British Museum; but they have now several stuffed
specimens at the Geographical Society's rooms in Town. I suppose you
will have seen Sir Emerson Tennent's "Ceylon," which is perhaps as
complete a book as ever was published; and a better monument to a
governor's residence in a great province was never made.

We have been lately astonished by a foreign Hamlet, a supposed
impossibility; but Mr. Fechter does real wonders. No doubt he will
visit America, and then you may see the best actor in the world. He
has carried out Goethe's idea of Hamlet as given in the "Wilhelm
Meister," showing him forth as a fair-haired and fat man. I suppose
you are not got fat yet?

     Yours ever truly,
     THOS. CHOLMONDELEY.[102]


TO HARRISON BLAKE (AT WORCESTER).

     CONCORD, May 3, 1861.

MR. BLAKE,--I am still as much an invalid as when you and Brown were
here, if not more of one, and at this rate there is danger that the
cold weather may come again, before I get over my bronchitis. The
doctor accordingly tells me that I must "clear out" to the West
Indies, or elsewhere,--he does not seem to care much where. But I
decide against the West Indies, on account of their muggy heat in the
summer, and the South of Europe, on account of the expense of time and
money, and have at last concluded that it will be most expedient for
me to try the air of Minnesota, say somewhere about St. Paul's. I am
only waiting to be well enough to start. Hope to get off within a week
or ten days.

The inland air may help me at once, or it may not. At any rate, I am
so much of an invalid that I shall have to study my comfort in
traveling to a remarkable degree,--stopping to rest, etc., etc., if
need be. I think to get a through ticket to Chicago, with liberty to
stop frequently on the way, making my first stop of consequence at
Niagara Falls, several days or a week, at a private boarding-house;
then a night or day at Detroit; and as much at Chicago as my health
may require. At Chicago I can decide at what point (Fulton, Dunleith,
or another) to strike the Mississippi, and take a boat to St. Paul's.

I trust to find a private boarding-house in one or various agreeable
places in that region, and spend my time there. I expect, and shall be
prepared, to be gone three months; and I would like to return by a
different route,--perhaps Mackinaw and Montreal.

I have thought of finding a companion, of course, yet not seriously,
because I had no right to offer myself as a companion to anybody,
having such a peculiarly private and all-absorbing but miserable
business as _my_ health, and not altogether _his_, to attend to,
causing me to stop here and go there, etc., etc., unaccountably.

Nevertheless, I have just now decided to let you know of my intention,
thinking it barely possible that you might like to make a part or the
whole of this journey at the same time, and that perhaps your own
health may be such as to be benefited by it.

Pray let me know if such a statement offers any temptations to you. I
write in great haste for the mail, and must omit all the moral.


TO F. B. SANBORN (AT CONCORD).

     REDWING, MINNESOTA, June 26, 1861.

MR. SANBORN,--I was very glad to find awaiting me, on my arrival here
on Sunday afternoon, a letter from you. I have performed this journey
in a very dead and alive manner, but nothing has come so near waking
me up as the receipt of letters from Concord. I read yours, and one
from my sister (and Horace Mann, his four), near the top of a
remarkable isolated bluff here, called Barn Bluff, or the Grange, or
Redwing Bluff, some four hundred and fifty feet high, and half a mile
long,--a bit of the main bluff or bank standing alone. The top, as you
know, rises to the general level of the surrounding country, the river
having eaten out so much. Yet the valley just above and below this (we
are at the head of Lake Pepin) must be three or four miles wide.

I am not even so well informed as to the progress of the war as you
suppose. I have seen but one Eastern paper (that, by the way, _was_
the _Tribune_) for five weeks. I have not taken much pains to get
them; but, necessarily, I have not seen any paper at all for more
than a week at a time. The people of Minnesota have _seemed_ to me
more cold,--to feel less implicated in this war than the people of
Massachusetts. It is apparent that Massachusetts, for one State at
least, is doing much more than her share in carrying it on. However, I
have dealt partly with those of Southern birth, and have seen but
little way beneath the surface. I was glad to be told yesterday that
there was a good deal of weeping here at Redwing the other day, when
the volunteers stationed at Fort Snelling followed the regulars to the
seat of the war. They do not weep when their children go _up_ the
river to occupy the deserted forts, though they _may_ have to fight
the Indians there.

I do not even know what the attitude of England is at present.

The grand feature hereabouts is, of course, the Mississippi River. Too
much can hardly be said of its grandeur, and of the beauty of this
portion of it (from Dunleith, and probably from Rock Island to this
place). St. Paul is a dozen miles below the Falls of St. Anthony, or
near the head of uninterrupted navigation on the main stream, about
two thousand miles from its mouth. There is not a "rip" below that,
and the river is almost as wide in the upper as the lower part of its
course. Steamers go up the Sauk Rapids, above the Falls, near a
hundred miles farther, and then you are fairly in the pine woods and
lumbering country. Thus it flows from the pine to the palm.

The lumber, as you know, is sawed chiefly at the Falls of St. Anthony
(what is not rafted in the log to ports far below), having given rise
to the towns of St. Anthony, Minneapolis, etc., etc. In coming up the
river from Dunleith, you meet with great rafts of sawed lumber and of
logs, twenty rods or more in length, by five or six wide, floating
down, all from the pine region above the Falls. An old Maine lumberer,
who has followed the same business here, tells me that the sources of
the Mississippi were comparatively free from rocks and rapids, making
easy work for them; but he thought that the timber was more knotty
here than in Maine.

It has chanced that about half the men whom I have spoken with in
Minnesota, whether travelers or settlers, were from Massachusetts.

After spending some three weeks in and about St. Paul, St. Anthony,
and Minneapolis, we made an excursion in a steamer, some three hundred
or more miles up the Minnesota (St. Peter's) River, to Redwood, or the
Lower Sioux Agency, in order to see the plains, and the Sioux, who
were to receive their annual payment there. This is eminently _the_
river of Minnesota (for she shares the Mississippi with Wisconsin),
and it is of incalculable value to her. It flows through a very
fertile country destined to be famous for its wheat; but it is a
remarkably winding stream, so that Redwood is only half as far from
its mouth by land as by water. There was not a straight reach a mile
in length as far as we went,--generally you could not see a quarter of
a mile of water, and the boat was steadily turning this way or that.
At the greater bends, as the Traverse des Sioux, some of the
passengers were landed, and walked across to be taken in on the other
side. Two or three times you could have thrown a stone across the
neck of the isthmus, while it was from one to three miles around it.
It was a very novel kind of navigation to me. The boat was perhaps the
largest that had been up so high, and the water was rather low (it had
been about fifteen feet higher). In making a short turn, we repeatedly
and designedly ran square into the steep and soft bank, taking in a
cart-load of earth,--this being more effectual than the rudder to
fetch us about again; or the deeper water was so narrow and close to
the shore, that we were obliged to run into and break down at least
fifty trees which overhung the water, when we did not cut them off,
repeatedly losing a part of our outworks, though the most exposed had
been taken in. I could pluck almost any plant on the bank from the
boat. We very frequently got aground, and then drew ourselves along
with a windlass and a cable fastened to a tree, or we swung round in
the current, and completely blocked up and blockaded the river, one
end of the boat resting on each shore. And yet we would haul ourselves
round again with the windlass and cable in an hour or two, though the
boat was about one hundred and sixty feet long, and drew some three
feet of water, or, often, water and sand. It was one consolation to
know that in such a case we were all the while damming the river, and
so raising it. We once ran fairly on to a concealed rock, with a shock
that aroused all the passengers, and rested there, and the mate went
below with a lamp, expecting to find a hole, but he did not. Snags and
sawyers were so common that I forgot to mention them. The sound of the
boat rumbling over one was the ordinary music. However, as long as
the boiler did not burst, we knew that no serious accident was likely
to happen. Yet this was a singularly navigable river, more so than the
Mississippi above the Falls, and it is owing to its very crookedness.
Ditch it straight, and it would not only be very swift, but soon run
out. It was from ten to fifteen rods wide near the mouth, and from
eight to ten or twelve at Redwood. Though the current was swift, I did
not see a "rip" on it, and only three or four rocks. For three months
in the year I am told that it can be navigated by small steamers about
twice as far as we went, or to its source in Big Stone Lake; and a
former Indian agent told me that at high water it was thought that
such a steamer might pass into the Red River.

In short, this river proved so very _long_ and navigable, that I was
reminded of the last letter or two in the voyage of the Baron la
Hontan (written near the end of the seventeenth century, I _think_),
in which he states, that, after reaching the Mississippi (by the
Illinois or Wisconsin), the limit of previous exploration westward, he
voyaged up it with his Indians, and at length turned up a great river
coming in from the west, which he called "La Rivière Longue;" and he
relates various improbable things about the country and its
inhabitants, so that this letter has been regarded as pure fiction,
or, more properly speaking, a lie. But I am somewhat inclined now to
reconsider the matter.

The Governor of Minnesota (Ramsay), the superintendent of Indian
affairs in this quarter, and the newly appointed Indian agent were on
board; also a German band from St. Paul, a small cannon for salutes,
and the money for the Indians (ay, and the gamblers, it was said, who
were to bring it back in another boat). There were about one hundred
passengers, chiefly from St. Paul, and more or less recently from the
northeastern States; also half a dozen young educated Englishmen.
Chancing to speak with one who sat next to me, when the voyage was
nearly half over, I found that he was the son of the Rev. Samuel
May,[103] and a classmate of yours, and had been looking for us at St.
Anthony.

The last of the little settlements on the river was New Ulm, about one
hundred miles this side of Redwood. It consists wholly of Germans. We
left them one hundred barrels of salt, which will be worth something
more when the water is lowest than at present.

Redwood is a mere locality,--scarcely an Indian village,--where there
is a store, and some houses have been built for them. We were now
fairly on the great plains, and looking south; and, after walking that
way three miles, could see no tree in that horizon. The buffalo were
said to be feeding within twenty-five or thirty miles.

A regular council was held with the Indians, who had come in on their
ponies, and speeches were made on both sides through an interpreter,
quite in the described mode,--the Indians, as usual, having the
advantage in point of truth and earnestness, and therefore of
eloquence. The most prominent chief was named Little Crow. They were
quite dissatisfied with the white man's treatment of them, and
probably have reason to be so. This council was to be continued for
two or three days,--the payment to be made the second day; and another
payment to other bands a little higher up, on the Yellow Medicine (a
tributary of the Minnesota), a few days thereafter.

In the afternoon, the half-naked Indians performed a dance, at the
request of the Governor, for our amusement and their own benefit; and
then we took leave of them, and of the officials who had come to treat
with them.

Excuse these pencil marks, but my inkstand is _unscrewable_, and I can
only direct my letter at the bar. I could tell you more, and perhaps
more interesting things, if I had time. I am considerably better than
when I left home, but still far from well.

Our faces are already set toward home. Will you please let my sister
know that we shall _probably_ start for Milwaukee and Mackinaw in a
day or two (or as soon as we hear from home) _via_ Prairie du Chien,
and not La Crosse.

I am glad to hear that you have written Cholmondeley,[104] as it
relieves me of some _responsibility_.

       *       *       *       *       *

The tour described in this long letter was the first and last that
Thoreau ever made west of the Mohawk Valley, though his friend
Channing had early visited the great prairies, and lived in log cabins
of Illinois, or sailed on the chain of great lakes, by which Thoreau
made a part of this journey. It was proposed that Channing should
accompany him this time, as he had in the tour through Lower Canada,
and along Cape Cod, as well as in the journeys through the Berkshire
and Catskill mountains, and down the Hudson; but some misunderstanding
or temporary inconvenience prevented. The actual comrade was young
Horace Mann, eldest son of the school-reformer and statesman of that
name,--a silent, earnest, devoted naturalist, who died early. The
place where his party met the Indians--only a few months before the
Minnesota massacre of 1862--was in the county of Redwood, in the
southwest of the State, where now is a thriving village of 1500
people, and no buffaloes within five hundred miles. Red Wing, whence
the letter was written, is below St. Paul, on the Mississippi, and was
even then a considerable town,--now a city of 7000 people. The Civil
War had lately begun, and the whole North was in the first flush of
its uprising in defense of the Union,--for which Thoreau, in spite of
his earlier defiance of government (for its alliance with slavery),
was as zealous as any soldier. He returned in July, little benefited
by the journey, of which he did not take his usual sufficiency of
notes, and to which there is little allusion in his books. Nor does it
seem that he visited on the way his correspondent since January,
1856,--C. H. Greene, of Rochester, Michigan, who had never seen him in
Concord. The opinion of Thoreau himself concerning this journey will
be found in his next letter to Daniel Ricketson.


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, August 15, 1861.

FRIEND RICKETSON,--When your last letter was written I was away in the
far Northwest, in search of health. My cold turned to bronchitis,
which made me a close prisoner almost up to the moment of my starting
on that journey, early in May. As I had an incessant cough, my doctor
told me that I must "clear out,"--to the West Indies, or
elsewhere,--so I selected Minnesota. I returned a few weeks ago, after
a good deal of steady traveling, considerably, yet not essentially,
better; my cough still continuing. If I don't mend very quickly, I
shall be obliged to go to another climate again very soon.

My ordinary pursuits, both indoors and out, have been for the most
part omitted, or seriously interrupted,--walking, boating, scribbling,
etc. Indeed, I have been sick so long that I have almost forgotten
what it is to be well; and yet I feel that it is in all respects only
my envelope. Channing and Emerson are as well as usual; but Alcott, I
am sorry to say, has for some time been more or less confined by a
lameness, perhaps of a neuralgic character, occasioned by carrying too
great a weight on his back while gardening.

On returning home, I found various letters awaiting me; among others,
one from Cholmondeley, and one from yourself.

Of course I am sufficiently surprised to hear of your conversion;[105]
yet I scarcely know what to say about it, unless that, judging by
your account, it appears to me a change which concerns yourself
peculiarly, and will not make you more valuable to mankind. However,
perhaps I must see you before I can judge.

Remembering your numerous invitations, I write this short note now,
chiefly to say that, if you are to be at home, and it will be quite
agreeable to you, I will pay you a visit next week, and take such
rides or sauntering walks with you as an invalid may.

       *       *       *       *       *

The visit was made, and we owe to it the preservation of the latest
portraiture of Thoreau, who, at his friend's urgency, sat to a
photographer in New Bedford; and thus we have the full-bearded
likeness of August, 1861; from which, also, and from personal
recollection, Mr. Walton Ricketson made the fine profile medallion
reproduced in photogravure for this volume.


TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, October 14, 1861.

FRIEND RICKETSON,--I think that, on the whole, my health is better
than when you were here; but my faith in the doctors has not
increased. I thank you all for your invitation to come to New Bedford,
but I suspect that it must still be warmer here than there; that,
indeed, New Bedford is warmer than Concord only in the winter, and so
I abide by Concord.

September was pleasanter and much better for me than August, and
October has thus far been quite tolerable. Instead of riding on
horseback, I ride in a wagon about every other day. My neighbor, Mr.
E. R. Hoar, has two horses, and he, being away for the most part this
fall, has generously offered me the use of one of them; and, as I
notice, the dog throws himself in, and does scouting duty.

I am glad to hear that you no longer chew, but eschew, sugar-plums.
One of the worst effects of sickness is, that it may get one into the
_habit_ of taking a little something--his bitters, or sweets, as if
for his bodily good--from time to time, when he does not need it.
However, there is no danger of this if you do not dose even when you
are sick.

I went with a Mr. Rodman, a young man of your town, here the other
day, or week, looking at farms for sale, and rumor says that he is
inclined to buy a particular one. Channing says that he received his
book, but has not got any of yours.

It is easy to talk, but hard to write.

From the worst of all correspondents,

     HENRY D. THOREAU.

No later letter than this was written by Thoreau's own hand; for he
was occupied all the winter of 1861-62, when he could write, in
preparing his manuscripts for the press. Nothing appeared before his
death, but in June, 1862, Mr. Fields, then editing the _Atlantic_,
printed "Walking,"--the first of three essays which came out in that
magazine the same year. Nothing of Thoreau's had been accepted for the
_Atlantic_ since 1858, when he withdrew the rest of "Chesuncook," then
coming out in its pages, because the editor (Mr. Lowell) had made
alterations in the manuscript. In April, just before his death, the
_Atlantic_ printed a short and characteristic sketch of Thoreau by
Bronson Alcott, and in August, Emerson's funeral oration, given in the
parish church of Concord. During the last six months of his illness,
his sister and his friends wrote letters for him, as will be seen by
the two that follow.


SOPHIA THOREAU TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, December 19, 1861.

     MR. RICKETSON:

_Dear Sir_,--Thank you for your friendly interest in my dear brother.
I wish that I could report more favorably in regard to his health.
Soon after your visit to Concord, Henry commenced riding, and almost
every day he introduced me to some of his familiar haunts, far away in
the thick woods, or by the ponds; all very new and delightful to me.
The air and exercise which he enjoyed during the fine autumn days were
a benefit to him; he seemed stronger, had a good appetite, and was
able to attend somewhat to his writing; but since the cold weather has
come, his cough has increased, and he is able to go out but seldom.
Just now he is suffering from an attack of pleurisy, which confines
him wholly to the house. His spirits do not fail him; he continues in
his usual serene mood, which is very pleasant for his friends as well
as himself. I am hoping for a short winter and early spring, that the
invalid may again be out of doors.

I am sorry to hear of your indisposition, and trust that you will be
well again soon. It would give me pleasure to see some of your
newspaper articles, since you possess a hopeful spirit. My patience is
nearly exhausted. The times look _very_ dark. I think the next soldier
who is shot for sleeping on his post should be Gen. McClellan. Why
does he not do something in the way of fighting? I despair of ever
living under the reign of Sumner or Phillips.


BRONSON ALCOTT TO DANIEL RICKETSON (AT NEW BEDFORD).

     CONCORD, January 10, 1862.

DEAR FRIEND,--You have not been informed of Henry's condition this
winter, and will be sorry to hear that he grows feebler day by day,
and is evidently failing and fading from our sight. He gets some
sleep, has a pretty good appetite, reads at intervals, takes notes of
his readings, and likes to see his friends, conversing, however, with
difficulty, as his voice partakes of his general debility. We had
thought this oldest inhabitant of our Planet would have chosen to stay
and see it fairly dismissed into the Chaos (out of which he has
brought such precious jewels,--gifts to friends, to mankind generally,
diadems for fame to coming followers, forgetful of his own claims to
the honors) before he chose simply to withdraw from the spaces and
times he has adorned with the truth of his genius. But the masterly
work is nearly done for us here. And our woods and fields are
sorrowing, though not in sombre, but in robes of white, so becoming to
the piety and probity they have known so long, and soon are to miss.
There has been none such since Pliny, and it will be long before there
comes his like; the most sagacious and wonderful Worthy of his time,
and a marvel to coming ones.

I write at the suggestion of his sister, who thought his friends would
like to be informed of his condition to the latest date.

Ever yours and respectfully,

     A. BRONSON ALCOTT.

The last letter of Henry Thoreau, written by the hand of his sister,
was sent to Myron Benton, a young literary man then living in Dutchess
County, New York, who had written a grateful letter to the author of
"Walden" (January 6, 1862), though quite unacquainted with him. Mr.
Benton said that the news of Thoreau's illness had affected him as if
it were that "of a personal friend whom I had known a long time," and
added: "The secret of the influence by which your writings charm me is
altogether as intangible, though real, as the attraction of Nature
herself. I read and reread your books with ever fresh delight. Nor is
it pleasure alone; there is a singular spiritual healthiness with
which they seem imbued,--the expression of a soul essentially sound,
so free from any morbid tendency." After mentioning that his own home
was in a pleasant valley, once the hunting-ground of the Indians, Mr.
Benton said:--

"I was in hope to read something more from your pen in Mr. Conway's
_Dial_,[106] but only recognized that fine pair of Walden twinlets.
Of your two books, I perhaps prefer the 'Week'--but after all,
'Walden' is but little less a favorite. In the former, I like
especially those little snatches of poetry interspersed throughout. I
would like to ask what progress you have made in a work some way
connected with natural history,--I think it was on Botany,--which Mr.
Emerson told me something about in a short interview I had with him
two years ago at Poughkeepsie.... If you should feel perfectly able at
any time to drop me a few lines, I would like much to know what your
state of health is, and if there is, as I cannot but hope, a prospect
of your speedy recovery."

Two months and more passed before Thoreau replied; but his habit of
performing every duty, whether of business or courtesy, would not
excuse him from an answer, which was this:--


TO MYRON B. BENTON (AT LEEDSVILLE, N. Y.).

     CONCORD, March 21, 1862.

DEAR SIR,--I thank you for your very kind letter, which, ever since I
received it, I have intended to answer before I died, however briefly.
I am encouraged to know, that, so far as you are concerned, I have not
written my books in vain. I was particularly gratified, some years
ago, when one of my friends and neighbors said, "I wish you would
write another book,--write it for me." He is actually more familiar
with what I have written than I am myself.

The verses you refer to in Conway's _Dial_ were written by F. B.
Sanborn of this town. I never wrote for that journal.

I am pleased when you say that in the "Week" you like especially
"those little snatches of poetry interspersed through the book," for
these, I suppose, are the least attractive to most readers. I have not
been engaged in any particular work on Botany, or the like, though, if
I were to live, I should have much to report on Natural History
generally.

You ask particularly after my health. I _suppose_ that I have not many
months to live; but, of course, I know nothing about it. I may add
that I am enjoying existence as much as ever, and regret nothing.

     Yours truly,
     HENRY D. THOREAU,
     by SOPHIA E. THOREAU.

He died May 6, 1862; his mother died March 12, 1872, and his sister
Sophia, October, 1876. With the death of his aunt, Maria Thoreau,
nearly twenty years after her beloved nephew, the last person of the
name in America (or perhaps in England) passed away.


FOOTNOTES:

[42] It will readily be seen that this letter relates to the shipwreck
on Fire Island, near New York, in which Margaret Fuller, Countess
Ossoli, with her husband and child, was lost. A letter with no date of
the year, but probably written February 15, 1840, from Emerson to
Thoreau, represents them both as taking much trouble about a house in
Concord for Mrs. Fuller, the mother of Margaret, who had just sold her
Groton house, and wished to live with her daughter near Emerson.

[43] Rev. A. B. Fuller, then of Manchester, N. H., afterward of
Boston; a brother of Margaret, who died a chaplain in the Civil War.

[44] The name of a political party, afterwards called "Republicans."

[45] Baron Trenck, the famous prisoner.

[46] The _Week_.

[47] Of _Putnam's Magazine_.

[48] A town near Boston.

[49] A Massachusetts town, the birthplace of Whittier.

[50] An American seaman, wrecked on the coast of Arabia,--once a
popular book.

[51] "The world is too much with us."--_Wordsworth._

[52] A lady who made such a night voyage with Thoreau, years before,
says: "How wise he was to ask the elderly lady with a younger one for
a row on the Concord River one moonlit night! The river that night was
as deep as the heavens above; serene stars shone from its depths, as
far off as the stars above. Deep answered unto deep in our souls, as
the boat glided swiftly along, past low-lying fields, under
overhanging trees. A neighbor's cow waded into the cool water,--she
became at once a Behemoth, a river-horse, hippopotamus, or river-god.
A dog barked,--he was Diana's hound, he waked Endymion. Suddenly we
were landed on a little isle; our boatman, our boat glided far off in
the flood. We were left alone, in the power of the river-god; like two
white birds we stood on this bit of ground, the river flowing about
us; only the eternal powers of nature around us. Time for a prayer,
perchance,--and back came the boat and oarsman; we were ferried to our
homes,--no question asked or answered. We had drank of the cup of the
night,--had left the silence and the stars."

[53] See Memoir of Bronson Alcott, pp. 485-494. The remark of Emerson
quoted on p. 486, that Cholmondeley was "the son of a Shropshire
squire," was not strictly correct, his father being a Cheshire
clergyman of a younger branch of the ancient race of Cholmondeley. But
he was the _grandson_ of a Shropshire squire (owner of land), for his
mother was daughter and sister of such gentlemen, and it was her
brother Richard who presented Reginald Heber and Charles Cholmondeley
to the living of Hodnet, near Market Drayton.

[54] Mr. Ricketson's immediate reply was received by Thoreau before he
wrote to Blake on the 22d. He set out from Concord for Cambridge on
Christmas Day, and reached Brooklawn, the country-house of his friend,
towards evening of that short day, on foot, with his umbrella and
traveling-bag, and he made so striking a figure in the eyes of
Ricketson that he sketched it roughly in his shanty-book. His children
have engraved it in their pleasing volume _Daniel Ricketson and his
Friends_, from the pages of which several of these letters are taken.
It is by no means a bad likeness of the plain and upright Thoreau.

[55] Hyannis was once a port for the sailing of the steamers to
Nantucket, where probably Thoreau was to land on his return. He had
visited the Cape before, but never Nantucket. Thomas Cholmondeley went
home with the distinct purpose of going to the Crimean war, and did
so. The subject of the New Bedford lecture was "Getting a Living."

Channing, his wife and children having left him, was living by himself
in his house opposite to Thoreau. Late in 1855 he rejoined Mrs.
Channing, in a household near Dorchester, and became one of the
editors of the New Bedford _Mercury_, residing in that city in
1856-57, after the death of Mrs. Channing.

[56] Quitman, aided perhaps by Laurence Oliphant, was aiming to
capture Cuba with "filibusters" (flibustiers).

[57] Then President of the United States, whose life Hawthorne had
written in 1852.

[58] I had been visiting Emerson occasionally for a year or two, and
knew Alcott well at this time; was also intimate with Cholmondeley in
the autumn of 1854, but had never seen Thoreau, a fact which shows how
recluse were then his habits. The letter below, and the long one
describing his trip to Minnesota, were the only ones I received from
him in a friendship of seven years. See Sanborn's _Thoreau_, pp.
195-200. Edwin Morton was my classmate. See pp. 286, 353, 440.

[59] The book was _Ultima Thule_, describing New Zealand.

[60] This was Edmund Hosmer, a Concord farmer, before mentioned as a
friend of Emerson, who was fond of quoting his sagacious and often
cynical remarks. He had entertained George Curtis and the Alcotts at
his farm on the "Turnpike," southeast of Emerson's; but now was living
on a part of the old manor of Governor Winthrop, which soon passed to
the ownership of the Hunts; and this house which Mr. Ricketson
proposed to lease was the "old Hunt farmhouse,"--in truth built for
the Winthrops two centuries before. It was soon after torn down.

[61] Sons of Mr. Ricketson; the second, a sculptor, modeled the
medallion head of Thoreau reproduced in photogravure for the
frontispiece of this volume.

[62] Mr. Channing had gone, October, 1855, to live in New Bedford, and
help edit the _Mercury_ there.

[63] The centre of Concord village, where the post-office and shops
are,--so called from an old mill-dam where now is a street.

[64] The aunt of R. W. Emerson, then eighty-one years old, an admirer
of Thoreau, as her notes to him show. For an account of her see
Emerson's _Lectures and Biographical Sketches_, Centenary Ed., pp.
397-433; Riverside Ed., pp. 371-404.

[65] The books on India, Egypt, etc., sent by Cholmondeley. See p.
271. They were divided between the Concord Public Library and the
libraries of Alcott, Blake, Emerson, Sanborn, etc.

[66] Mr. Channing became a frequent visitor at Brooklawn in the years
of his residence at New Bedford, 1856-58. See p. 274.

[67] These books were ordered by Cholmondeley in London, and sent to
Boston just as he was starting for the Crimean War, in October, 1855,
calling them "a nest of Indian books." They included Mill's _History
of British India_, several translations of the sacred books of India,
and one of them in Sanscrit; the works of Bunsen, so far as then
published, and other valuable books. In the note accompanying this
gift, Cholmondeley said, "I think I never found so much kindness in
all my travels as in your country of New England." In return, Thoreau
sent his English friend, in 1857, his own _Week_, Emerson's Poems,
Walt Whitman's _Leaves of Grass_, and F. L. Olmsted's book on the
Southern States (then preparing for the secession which they attempted
four years later). This was perhaps the first copy of Whitman seen in
England, and when Cholmondeley began to read it to his stepfather,
Rev. Z. Macaulay, at Hodnet, that clergyman declared he would not hear
it, and threatened to throw it in the fire. On reading the _Week_ (he
had received _Walden_ from Thoreau when first in America),
Cholmondeley wrote me, "Would you tell dear Thoreau that the lines I
admire so much in his _Week_ begin thus:--

     'Low-anchored cloud,
     Newfoundland air,' etc.

In my mind the best thing he ever wrote."

[68] Ellery Channing is mentioned, though not by name, in the _Week_
(pp. 169, 378), and in _Walden_ (p. 295). He was the comrade of
Thoreau in Berkshire, and on the Hudson, in New Hampshire, Canada, and
Cape Cod, and in many rambles nearer Concord. He was also a companion
of Hawthorne in his river voyages, as mentioned in the _Mosses_.

[69] The Concord Lyceum, founded in 1829, and still extant, though not
performing its original function of lectures and debates. See pp. 51,
154, etc.

[70] This was the town of Harvard, not the college. Perhaps the
excursion was to visit Fruitlands, where Alcott and Lane had
established their short-lived community, in a beautiful spot near
Still River, an affluent of the Nashua, and half-way from Concord to
Wachusett. "Asnebumskit," mentioned in a former letter, is the highest
hill near Worcester, as "Nobscot" is the highest near Concord. Both
have Indian names.

[71] The New York newspaper.

[72] An odd boat.

[73] Mrs. Caroline Kirkland, wife of Prof. William Kirkland, then of
New York,--a writer of wit and fame at that time.

[74] A Worcester newspaper.

[75] B. B. Wiley, then of Providence, since of Chicago (deceased), had
written to Thoreau, September 4, for the _Week_, which the author was
then selling on his own account, having bought back the unsalable
first edition from his publisher, Munroe. In a letter of October 31,
to which the above is a reply, he mentions taking a walk with Charles
Newcomb, then of Providence, since of London and Paris, now dead,--a
_Dial_ contributor, and a special friend of Emerson; then inquires
about Confucius, the Hindoo philosophers, and Swedenborg.

[76] When, in 1855 or 1856, Thoreau started to wade across from
Duxbury to Clark's Island, and was picked up by a fishing-boat in the
deep water, and landed on the "back side" of the island (see letter to
Mr. Watson of April 25, 1858), Edward Watson ("Uncle Ed") was "saggin'
round" to see that everything was right alongshore, and encountered
the unexpected visitor. "How did _you_ come here?" "Oh, from Duxbury,"
said Thoreau, and they walked to the old Watson house together. "You
say in one of your books," said Uncle Ed, "that you once lost a horse
and a hound and a dove,--now I should like to know what you meant by
that?" "Why, everybody has met with losses, haven't they?"
"H'm,--pretty way to answer a fellow!" said Mr. Watson; but it seems
this was the usual answer. In the long dining-room of the old house
that night he sat by the window and told the story of the Norse
voyagers to New England,--perhaps to that very island and the Gurnet
near by,--as Morton fancies in his review of Thoreau in the _Harvard
Magazine_ (January, 1855).

[77] This was when he spoke in the vestry of the Calvinistic church,
and said, on his return to Concord, "that he hoped he had done
something to upheave and demolish the structure above,"--the vestry
being beneath the church.

[78] Notwithstanding this unwillingness to lecture, Thoreau did speak
at Worcester, February 13, 1857, on "Walking," but scrupulously added
to his consent (February 6), "I told Brown it had not been much
altered since I read it in Worcester; but now I think of it, much of
it must have been new to you, because, having since divided it into
two, I am able to read what before I omitted. Nevertheless, I should
like to have it understood by those whom it concerns, that I am
invited to read in public (if it be so) what I have already read, in
part, to a private audience." This throws some light on his method of
preparing lectures, which were afterwards published as essays; they
were made up from his journals, and new entries expanded them.

[79] Rev. Edward E. Hale, then pastor at Worcester. Others mentioned
in the letter are Rev. David A. Wasson and Dr. Seth Rogers,--the
latter a physician with whom Mr. Wasson was living in Worcester.

[80] A writer on scenery and natural history, who outlived Thoreau,
and never forgave him for the remark about "stirring up with a pole,"
which really might have been less graphic.

[81] The panic of 1857,--the worst since 1837.

[82] Reinhold Solger, Ph. D.,--a very intellectual and well-taught
Prussian, who was one of the lecturers for a year or two at my
"Concord School," the successor of the Concord "Academy," in which the
children of the Emerson, Alcott, Hawthorne, Hoar, and Ripley families
were taught. At this date the lectures were given in the vestry of the
parish church, which Thoreau playfully termed "a meeting-house
cellar." It was there that Louisa Alcott acted plays.

[83] Exclamation points and printer's devil.

[84] Channing says (_Thoreau, the Poet-Naturalist_, new ed., pp. 41,
42): "He made for himself a knapsack, with partitions for his books
and papers,--india-rubber cloth (strong and large and spaced, the
common knapsacks being unspaced).... After trying the merit of cocoa,
coffee, water, and the like, tea was put down as the felicity of a
walking '_travail_,'--tea plenty, strong, with enough sugar, made in a
tin pint cup.... He commended every party to carry 'a junk of heavy
cake' with plums in it, having found by long experience that after
toil it was a capital refreshment."

[85] Marston Watson, whose uncle, Edward Watson, with his nephews,
owned the "breezy island" where Thoreau had visited his friends
(Clark's Island, the only one in Plymouth Bay), had built his own
house, "Hillside," on the slope of one of the hills above Plymouth
town, and there laid out a fine park and garden, which Thoreau
surveyed for him in the autumn of 1854, Alcott and Mr. Watson carrying
the chain. For a description of Hillside, see Channing's _Wanderer_
(Boston, 1871) and Alcott's _Sonnets and Canzonets_ (Boston: Roberts,
1882). It was a villa much visited by Emerson, Alcott, Channing,
Thoreau, George Bradford, and the Transcendentalists generally. Mr.
Watson graduated at Harvard two years after Thoreau, and in an old
diary says, "I remember Thoreau in the college yard (1836) with
downcast thoughtful look intent, as if he were searching for
something; always in a green coat,--green because the authorities
required black, I suppose." In a letter he says: "I have always heard
the 'Maiden in the East' was Mrs. Watson,--Mary Russell Watson,--and I
suppose there is no doubt of it. I may be prejudiced, but I have
always thought it one of his best things,--and I have highly valued
his lines. I find in my _Dial_, No. 6, I have written six new stanzas
in the margin of Friendship, and they are numbered to show how they
should run. I think Mrs. Brown gave them to me."

[86] _Thoreau, the Poet-Naturalist_, new ed., pp. 42-45.

[87] Near which, at New Bedford, Mr. Ricketson lived.

[88] This was the "Orchard House," near Hawthorne's "Wayside." The
estate on which it stands, now owned by Mrs. Lothrop, who also owns
the "Wayside," was surveyed for Mr. Alcott by Thoreau in October,
1857.

[89] Channing's _Thoreau, the Poet-Naturalist_, new ed., pp. 6, 15,
16. Channing himself was, no doubt, the "follower" and "companion"
here mentioned; no person so frequently walked with Thoreau in his
long excursions. They were together in New Boston, N. H., when the
minister mentioned in the _Week_ reproved Thoreau for not going to
meeting on Sunday. When I first lived in Concord (March, 1855), and
asked the innkeeper what Sunday services the village held, he replied,
"There's the Orthodox, an' the Unitarian, an' th' Walden Pond
Association,"--meaning by the last what Emerson called "the
Walkers,"--those who rambled in the Walden woods on Sundays.

[90] Of New Bedford, first published in the _Mercury_ of that city,
while Channing was one of the editors, and afterwards in a volume.

[91] The club with which Thoreau here makes merry was the Saturday
Club, meeting at Parker's Hotel in Boston the last Saturday in each
month, of which Emerson, Agassiz, Longfellow, Holmes, Lowell, Henry
James, and other men of letters were members. Thoreau, though invited,
never seems to have met with them, as Channing did, on one memorable
occasion, at least, described by Mr. James in a letter cited in the
_Memoir of Bronson Alcott_, who also occasionally dined with this
club. The conversation at Emerson's next mentioned was also memorable
for the vigor with which Miss Mary Emerson, then eighty-four years
old, rebuked Mr. James for what she thought his dangerous Antinomian
views concerning the moral law.

[92] This was Tuckerman's Ravine at the White Mountains, where Thoreau
met with his mishap in the preceding July.

[93] He was looking after the manufacture of fine plumbago for the
electrotypers, which was the family business after pencil-making grew
unprofitable. The Thoreaus had a grinding-mill in Acton, and a
packing-shop attached to their Concord house. "Parker's society,"
mentioned at the close of the letter, was the congregation of Theodore
Parker, then in Italy, where he died in May, 1860.

[94] He was invited to a gathering of John Brown's friends at the
grave in the Adirondack woods. "Mr. Sanborn's case" was an indictment
and civil suit against Silas Carleton _et als._ for an attempt to
kidnap F. B. Sanborn, who had refused to accept the invitation of the
Senate at Washington to testify in the John Brown investigation.

[95] This is the excursion described by Thoreau in a subsequent
letter,--lasting six days, and the first that Channing had made which
involved "camping out." It was also Thoreau's last visit to this
favorite mountain; but Channing continued to go there after the death
of his friend; and some of these visits are recorded in his poem "The
Wanderer." The last one was in September, 1869, when I accompanied
him, and we again spent five nights on the plateau where he had camped
with Thoreau. At that time, one of the "two good spruce houses, half a
mile apart," mentioned by Thoreau, was still standing, in ruins,--the
place called by Channing "Henry's Camp," and thus described:--

           We built our fortress where you see
     Yon group of spruce-trees, sidewise on the line
     Where the horizon to the eastward bounds,--
     A point selected by sagacious art,
     Where all at once we viewed the Vermont hills,
     And the long outline of the mountain-ridge,
     Ever renewing, changeful every hour.

     See _The Wanderer_ (Boston, 1871), p. 61.


[96] See Thoreau's _Journal_, Dec. 3, 1859. Merriam mentioned
Thoreau's name to him, but never guessed who his companion was.

[97] This was Thoreau's last visit to Monadnock, and the one mentioned
in the note of August 3, and in Channing's _Wanderer_.

[98] The Prince of Wales (now King Edward VII), then visiting America
with the Duke of Newcastle.

[99] Now termed pneumonia.

[100] In April, 1859, Mr. Alcott was chosen superintendent of the
public schools of Concord, by a school committee of which Mr. Bull,
the creator of the Concord grape, and Mr. Sanborn, were members, and
for some years he directed the studies of the younger pupils, to their
great benefit and delight. At the yearly "exhibitions," songs were
sung composed by Louisa Alcott and others, and the whole town
assembled to see and hear. The stress of civil war gradually checked
this idyllic movement, and Mr. Alcott returned to his garden and
library. It was two years after this that Miss Alcott had her severe
experience as hospital nurse at Washington.

[101] Edwin Morton of Plymouth, Mass., a friend of John Brown and
Gerrit Smith, who went to England in October, 1859, to avoid
testifying against his friends.

[102] A word may be said of the after life of this magnanimous
Englishman, who did not long survive his Concord correspondent. In
March, 1863, being then in command of a battalion of Shropshire
Volunteers, which he had raised, he inherited Condover Hall and the
large estate adjacent, and took the name of Owen as a condition of the
inheritance. A year later he married Miss Victoria Cotes, daughter of
John and Lady Louisa Cotes (Co. Salop), a godchild of the Queen, and
went to Italy for his wedding tour. In Florence he was seized with a
malignant fever, April 10, 1864, and died there April 20,--not quite
two years after Thoreau's death. His brother Reginald, who had met him
in Florence, carried back his remains to England, and he is buried in
Condover churchyard. Writing to an American friend, Mr. R.
Cholmondeley said: "The whole county mourned for one who had made
himself greatly beloved. During his illness his thoughts went back
very much to America and her great sufferings. His large heart felt
for your country as if it were his own." It seems that he did not go
to New Zealand with the "Canterbury Pilgrims," as suggested in the
_Atlantic Monthly_ (December, 1893), but in the first of Lord
Lyttelton's ships (the Charlotte Jane), having joined in Lord L.'s
scheme for colonizing the island, where he remained only six months,
near Christchurch.

[103] Rev. Joseph May, a cousin of Louisa Alcott.

[104] I had answered T. Cholmondeley's last letter, explaining that
Thoreau was ill and absent.

[105] A return to religious Quakerism, of which his friend had written
enthusiastically.

[106] This was a short-lived monthly, edited at Cincinnati (1861-62)
by Moncure D. Conway, since distinguished as an author, who had
resided for a time in Concord, after leaving his native Virginia. He
wrote asking Thoreau and all his Concord friends to contribute to this
new _Dial_, and several of them did so.




APPENDIX


The letters of Thoreau, early or late, which did not reach me in time
to be used in the original edition of this book, and have since
appeared in print here and there, are included either in order of
their date in the preceding pages (in the case of the additional
Ricketson letters) or in this Appendix. I owe the right to use the
following correspondence to Mr. E. H. Russell of Worcester and to Dr.
S. A. Jones of Ann Arbor, Michigan, who first obtained from the family
of Calvin H. Greene of Rochester, Michigan, the Greene letters, five
in number, all short, but characteristic. Dr. Jones printed these in a
small edition at Jamaica, N. Y., and along with them some letters of
Miss Sophia Thoreau to Mr. Greene, and portions of Greene's Diary
during his two visits to Concord in September, 1863, and August, 1874.
In these papers he left initials, or letters commonly used for unknown
quantities, to stand for certain names occurring there. "X." and "X.
Y. Z." in this Diary, and in Miss Thoreau's letters, signify Ellery
Channing, to whom in March, 1863, Mr. Greene had sent the manzanita
cane, headed with buffalo-horn and tipped with silver, which he had
made with his own hands and intended for Thoreau, and which Mr.
Channing gave to me, as the mutual friend of the two Concord poets. In
the Diary I am "Mr. S." This Diary and the letters of Miss Thoreau
supply some useful facts for a Thoreau biography, which this
collection of Familiar Letters was meant to be,--a biography largely
in the words of its subject. Notice is taken of such facts in
footnotes.

The earlier letters to Isaac Hecker, afterwards known as Father Hecker
of New York, grew out of an acquaintance formed with him while he was
living at Mrs. Thoreau's, and taking lessons of the late George
Bradford, brother of Mrs. Ripley. They were subsequent to Hecker's
brief stay at Brook Farm and Fruitlands, and when he was studying to
be a Catholic priest. He cherished the vain hope of converting Thoreau
to his own newly acquired faith, amid the influences of Catholic
Europe. The brief correspondence is printed in the _Atlantic Monthly_
for September, 1902.

Isaac Hecker, born in December, 1819, two and a half years after
Thoreau, was the son of a German baker in New York city, and of little
education until he came to Massachusetts at the age of twenty-three,
as the disciple and friend of Dr. Brownson, then a Protestant preacher
and social democrat. In January, 1843, he entered the Brook Farm
community, not as a member, but as a worker and student, making the
bread for the family and taking lessons of George Ripley, George
Bradford, Charles Dana, and John S. Dwight,--all friends of the
Concord circle of authors. But he was restless, and yearned for a more
ascetic life, and before he had been at Brook Farm a month he was
writing to Bronson Alcott about entering the as yet unopened
Fruitlands convent, between which and Brook Farm Concord was a
half-way station, both physically and spiritually. Hecker tried all
three; was at Brook Farm, off and on, for six months, at Fruitlands
two weeks (from July 11 to July 25, 1843), and at Concord two months
(from April 22 to June 20, 1844). Then, August 1, he was baptized in
the Catholic faith at New York. The day before this final step,
towards which he had been tending for a year, he wrote to Thoreau,
proposing a journey through Europe on foot and without money. During
his brief Concord life he had been a lodger at the house of John
Thoreau (the Parkman house, where now the Public Library stands), and
had seen Henry Thoreau daily. Hecker thus describes his room, his
rent, and his landlady, who was Thoreau's mother:

"All that is needed for my comfort is here,--a room of good size, very
good people, furnished and to be kept in order for 75 cents a week,
including lights,--wood is extra pay; a good straw bed, a large table,
carpet, wash-stand, bookcase, stove, chairs, looking-glass,--all, all
that is needful. The lady of the house, Mrs. Thoreau, is a _woman_.
The only fear I have about her is that she is too much like dear
mother,--she will take too much care of me. If you were to see her,
Mother, you would be perfectly satisfied that I have fallen into good
hands, and met a second mother, if that is possible. I have just
finished my dinner,--unleavened bread from home, maple-sugar, and
apples which I purchased this morning. Previous to taking dinner I
said my first lesson to Mr. Bradford in Greek and Latin."

Hecker "boarded himself," but no doubt often partook of Mrs. Thoreau's
hospitality, and took long walks with Thoreau. Writing to him three
months after the first meeting at Concord, Hecker said: "I have formed
a certain project which your influence has no slight share in forming.
It is, to work our passage to Europe, and to walk, work, and beg, if
need be, as far, when there, as we are inclined to do."


TO ISAAC HECKER (AT NEW YORK).

     CONCORD, August 14, 1844.

FRIEND HECKER,--I am glad to hear your voice from that populous city,
and the more so for the tenor of its discourse. I have but just
returned from a pedestrian excursion somewhat similar to that you
propose, _parvis componere magna_, to the Catskill Mountains, over the
principal mountains of this State, subsisting mainly on bread and
berries, and slumbering on the mountain-tops. As usually happens, I
now feel a slight sense of dissipation. Still, I am strongly tempted
by your proposal, and experience a decided schism between my outward
and inward tendencies. Your method of traveling, especially,--to live
along the road, citizens of the world, without haste or petty
plans,--I have often proposed this to my dreams, and still do. But the
fact is, I cannot so decidedly postpone exploring the _Farther
Indies_, which are to be reached, you know, by other routes and other
methods of travel. I mean that I constantly return from every external
enterprise with disgust, to fresh faith in a kind of Brahminical,
Artesian, Inner Temple life. All my experience, as yours probably,
proves only this reality. Channing wonders how I can resist your
invitation, I, a single man--unfettered--and so do I. Why, there are
Roncesvalles, the Cape de Finisterre, and the Three Kings of Cologne;
Rome, Athens, and the rest, to be visited in serene, untemporal hours,
and all history to revive in one's memory, as he went by the way, with
splendors too bright for this world,--I know how it is. But is not
here, too, Roncesvalles with greater lustre? Unfortunately, it may
prove dull and desultory weather enough here, but better trivial days
with faith than the fairest ones lighted by sunshine alone. Perchance,
my _Wanderjahr_ has not arrived, but you cannot wait for that. I hope
you will find a companion who will enter as heartily into your schemes
as I should have done.

I remember you, as it were, with the whole Catholic Church at your
skirts. And the other day, for a moment, I think I understood your
relation to that body; but the thought was gone again in a twinkling,
as when a dry leaf falls from its stem over our heads, but is
instantly lost in the rustling mass at our feet.

I am really sorry that the Genius will not let me go with you, but I
trust that it will conduct to other adventures, and so, if nothing
prevents, we will compare notes at last.

       *       *       *       *       *

When this invitation reached Concord, Thoreau was absent on a tour
with Channing to the Berkshire Mountains and the Catskills,--Channing
coming up the Hudson from New York (where he then lived, aiding Horace
Greeley in the _Tribune_ office), and meeting his friend at the foot
of the Hoosac Mountain. On its summit Thoreau had spent the night,
sleeping under a board near the observatory tower built by the
Williams College students, as related by him in the _Week_. They then
crossed the Hudson and journeyed on to the Catskills, returning
together to Concord.[107] Meantime Hecker had got impatient, and wrote
again, to which Thoreau replied, August 17, thus briefly:--


TO ISAAC HECKER (AT NEW YORK).

I improve the occasion of my mother's sending to acknowledge the
receipt of your stirring letter. You have probably received mine by
this time. I thank you for not anticipating any vulgar objections on
my part. _Far_ travel, very _far_ travel, or travail, comes near to
the worth of staying at home. Who knows whence his education is to
come! Perhaps I may drag my anchor at length, or rather, when the
_winds_ which blow _over_ the deep fill my sails, may stand away for
distant parts,--for now I seem to have a firm _ground_ anchorage,
though the harbor is low-shored enough, and the traffic with the
natives inconsiderable. I may be away to Singapore by the next tide.

I like well the ring of your last maxim, "It is only the fear of death
makes us reason of impossibilities." And but for fear, death itself is
an impossibility.

Believe me, I can hardly let it end so. If you do not go soon, let me
hear from you again.

     Yrs. in great haste,
     HENRY D. THOREAU.

Hecker did not in fact go to Europe till a year later, and when he
walked over a part of central Europe, it was in company with one or
two young Catholic priests,--men very unlike Thoreau.

The short correspondence with Calvin Greene (longer than that with
Hecker) occurred at intervals, a dozen years and more after the
Fruitlands period, when the Walden experience had been lived through
and recorded, and the friendship with the Ricketson family was in its
earlier stages. Mr. Greene, when he called on me at his first visit to
the Thoreau family in 1863, mentioned that he had just read Thoreau's
poem, "The Departure," which at Sophia's request I had lately printed
in the Boston _Commonwealth_, a weekly that I had been editing since
Moncure Conway had left Concord for London, in the winter of 1862-63.
Greene was a plain, sincere man, never in New England before, who
amused Channing by saying he had "taken a boat-ride on the Atlantic."
He came once more in 1874, and spent an evening with me in the house
where Thoreau lived and died,--Mrs. Thoreau then being dead, and
Sophia at Bangor, where she died in 1876.


TO CALVIN H. GREENE (AT ROCHESTER, MICH.).

     CONCORD, January 18, 1856.

DEAR SIR,--I am glad to hear that my "Walden" has interested
you,--that perchance it holds some truth still as far off as Michigan.
I thank you for your note.

The "Week" had so poor a publisher that it is quite uncertain whether
you will find it in any shop. I am not sure but authors must turn
booksellers themselves. The price is $1.25. If you care enough for it
to send me that sum by mail (stamps will do for change), I will
forward you a copy by the same conveyance.

As for the "more" that is to come, I cannot speak definitely at
present, but I trust that the mine--be it silver or lead--is not yet
exhausted. At any rate, I shall be encouraged by the fact that you are
interested in its yield.

     Yours respectfully,
     HENRY D. THOREAU.


     CONCORD, February 10, 1856.

DEAR SIR,--I forwarded to you by mail on the 31st of January a copy of
my "Week," post paid, which I trust that you have received. I thank
you heartily for the expression of your interest in "Walden" and hope
that you will not be disappointed by the "Week." You ask how the
former has been received. It has found an audience of excellent
character, and quite numerous, some 2000 copies having been
dispersed.[108] I should consider it a greater success to interest one
wise and earnest soul, than a million unwise and frivolous.

You may rely on it that you have the best of me in my books, and that
I am not worth seeing personally, the stuttering, blundering
clod-hopper that I am. Even poetry, you know, is in one sense an
infinite brag and exaggeration. Not that I do not stand on all that I
have written,--but what am I to the truth I feebly utter?

I like the name of your county.[109] May it grow men as sturdy as its
trees! Methinks I hear your flute echo amid the oaks. Is not yours,
too, a good place to study theology? I hope that you will ere long
recover your turtle-dove, and that it may bring you glad tidings out
of that heaven in which it disappeared.

     Yours sincerely,
     HENRY D. THOREAU.


     CONCORD, May 31, 1856.

DEAR SIR,--I forwarded by mail a copy of my "Week," post paid to James
Newberry, Merchant, Rochester, Oakland Co., Mich., according to your
order, about ten days ago, or on the receipt of your note.

I will obtain and forward a copy of "Walden" and also of the "Week" to
California, to your order, post paid, for $2.60. The postage will be
between 60 and 70 cents.

I thank you heartily for your kind intentions respecting me. The West
has many attractions for me, particularly the lake country and the
Indians, yet I do [not] foresee what my engagements may be in the
fall. I have once or twice come near going West a-lecturing, and
perhaps some winter may bring me into your neighborhood, in which case
I should probably see you. Yet lecturing has commonly proved so
foreign and irksome to me, that I think I could only use it to acquire
the means with which to make an independent tour another time.

As for my pen, I can say that it is not altogether idle, though I have
finished nothing new in the book form. I am drawing a rather long bow,
though it may be a feeble one, but I pray that the archer may receive
new strength before the arrow is shot.

     With many thanks, yours truly,
     HENRY D. THOREAU.


     CONCORD, Saturday, June 21, 1856.

DEAR SIR,--On the 12th I forwarded the two books to California,
observing your directions in every particular, and I trust that Uncle
Sam will discharge his duty faithfully. While in Worcester this week I
obtained the accompanying daguerreotype,[110] which my friends think
is pretty good, though better-looking than I.

     Books and postage           $2.64
     Daguerreotype                 .50
     Postage                       .16
                                  ----
                                  3.30

          5.00 You will accordingly
          3.30
          ----
     find 1.70 enclosed with my shadow.

     Yrs.,
     HENRY D. THOREAU.


     CONCORD, July 8, 1857.

DEAR SIR,--You are right in supposing that I have not been Westward. I
am very little of a traveler. I am gratified to hear of the interest
you take in my books; it is additional encouragement to write more of
them. Though my pen is not idle, I have not published anything for a
couple of years at least. I like a private life, and cannot bear to
have the public in my mind.

You will excuse me for not responding more heartily to your notes,
since I realize what an interval there always is between the actual
and imagined author and feel that it would not be just for _me_ to
appropriate the sympathy and good will of my unseen readers.

Nevertheless, I should like to meet you, and if I ever come into your
neighborhood shall endeavor to do so. Can't you tell the world of your
life also? Then I shall know you, at least as well as you me.

     Yours truly,
     HENRY D. THOREAU.


     CONCORD, November 24, 1859.

DEAR SIR,--The lectures which you refer to were reported in the
newspapers, _after a fashion_,--the last one in some half-dozen of
them,--and if I possessed one, or all, I would send them to you, bad
as they are. The best, or at least longest one of the Boston lectures
was in the Boston _Atlas and Bee_ of November 2d,--maybe half the
whole. There were others in the _Traveller_, the _Journal_, etc., of
the same date.

I am glad to know that you are interested to see my things, and I wish
I had them in printed form to send to you. I exerted myself
considerably to get the last discourse printed and sold for the
benefit of Brown's family, but the publishers are afraid of pamphlets,
and it is now too late.[111]

I return the stamps which I have not used.

I shall be glad to see you if I ever come your way.


    EXCURSIONS.


NATURAL HISTORY OF MASSACHUSETTS.
[Footnote: _Reports--on the Fishes, Reptiles, and Birds; the Herbaceous
Plants and Quadrupeds; the Insects Injurious to Vegetation; and the
Invertebrate Animals of Massachusetts_. Published agreeably to an Order of
the Legislature, by the Commissioners on the Zoölogical and Botanical
Survey of the State.]
[1842.]

Books of natural history make the most cheerful winter reading. I read
in Audubon with a thrill of delight, when the snow covers the ground, of
the magnolia, and the Florida keys, and their warm sea-breezes; of the
fence-rail, and the cotton-tree, and the migrations of the rice-bird; of
the breaking up of winter in Labrador, and the melting of the snow on the
forks of the Missouri; and owe an accession of health to these
reminiscences of luxuriant nature.

Within the circuit of this plodding life,
There enter moments of an azure hue,
Untarnished fair as is the violet
Or anemone, when the spring strews them
By some meandering rivulet, which make
The best philosophy untrue that aims
But to console man for his grievances.
I have remembered when the winter came,
High in my chamber in the frosty nights,
When in the still light of the cheerful moon,
On every twig and rail and jutting spout,
The icy spears were adding to their length
Against the arrows of the coming sun,
How in the shimmering noon of summer past
Some unrecorded beam slanted across
The upland pastures where the Johnswort grew;
Or heard, amid the verdure of my mind,
The bee's long smothered hum, on the blue flag
Loitering amidst the mead; or busy rill,
Which now through all its course stands still and dumb
Its own memorial,--purling at its play
Along the slopes, and through the meadows next,
Until its youthful sound was hushed at last
In the staid current of the lowland stream;
Or seen the furrows shine but late upturned,
And where the fieldfare followed in the rear,
When all the fields around lay bound and hoar
Beneath a thick integument of snow.
So by God's cheap economy made rich
To go upon my winter's task again.

I am singularly refreshed in winter when I hear of service-berries,
poke-weed, juniper. Is not heaven made up of these cheap summer glories?
There is a singular health in those words, Labrador and East Main, which
no desponding creed recognizes. How much more than Federal are these
States. If there were no other vicissitudes than the seasons, our interest
would never tire. Much more is adoing than Congress wots of. What journal
do the persimmon and the buckeye keep, and the sharp-shinned hawk? What is
transpiring from summer to winter in the Carolinas, and the Great Pine
Forest, and the Valley of the Mohawk? The merely political aspect of the
land is never very cheering; men are degraded when considered as the
members of a political organization. On this side all lands present only
the symptoms of decay. I see but Bunker Hill and Sing-Sing, the District
of Columbia and Sullivan's Island, with a few avenues connecting them. But
paltry are they all beside one blast of the east or the south wind which
blows over them.

In society you will not find health, but in nature. Unless our feet at
least stood in the midst of nature, all our faces would be pale and livid.
Society is always diseased, and the best is the most so. There is no scent
in it so wholesome as that of the pines, nor any fragrance so penetrating
and restorative as the life-everlasting in high pastures. I would keep
some book of natural history always by me as a sort of elixir, the reading
of which should restore the tone of the system. To the sick, indeed,
nature is sick, but to the well, a fountain of health. To him who
contemplates a trait of natural beauty no harm nor disappointment can
come. The doctrines of despair, of spiritual or political tyranny or
servitude, were never taught by such as shared the serenity of nature.
Surely good courage will not flag here on the Atlantic border, as long as
we are flanked by the Fur Countries. There is enough in that sound to
cheer one under any circumstances. The spruce, the hemlock, and the pine
will not countenance despair. Methinks some creeds in vestries and
churches do forget the hunter wrapped in furs by the Great Slave Lake, and
that the Esquimaux sledges are drawn by dogs, and in the twilight of the
northern night, the hunter does not give over to follow the seal and
walrus on the ice. They are of sick and diseased imaginations who would
toll the world's knell so soon. Cannot these sedentary sects do better
than prepare the shrouds and write the epitaphs of those other busy living
men? The practical faith of all men belies the preacher's consolation.
What is any man's discourse to me, if I am not sensible of something in it
as steady and cheery as the creak of crickets? In it the woods must be
relieved against the sky. Men tire me when I am not constantly greeted and
refreshed as by the flux of sparkling streams. Surely joy is the condition
of life. Think of the young fry that leap in ponds, the myriads of insects
ushered into being on a summer evening, the incessant note of the hyla
with which the woods ring in the spring, the nonchalance of the butterfly
carrying accident and change painted in a thousand hues upon its wings, or
the brook minnow stoutly stemming the current, the lustre of whose scales
worn bright by the attrition is reflected upon the bank.

We fancy that this din of religion, literature, and philosophy, which is
heard in pulpits, lyceums, and parlors, vibrates through the universe,
and is as catholic a sound as the creaking of the earth's axle; but if a
man sleep soundly, he will forget it all between sunset and dawn. It is
the three-inch swing of a pendulum in a cupboard, which the great pulse of
nature vibrates by and through each instant. When we lift our eyelids and
open our ears, it disappears with smoke and rattle like the cars on a
railroad. When I detect a beauty in any of the recesses of nature, I am
reminded, by the serene and retired spirit in which it requires to be
contemplated, of the inexpressible privacy of a life,--how silent and
unambitious it is. The beauty there is in mosses must be considered from
the holiest, quietest nook. What an admirable training is science for the
more active warfare of life. Indeed, the unchallenged bravery, which these
studies imply, is far more impressive than the trumpeted valor of the
warrior. I am pleased to learn that Thales was up and stirring by night
not unfrequently, as his astronomical discoveries prove. Linnaeus, setting
out for Lapland, surveys his "comb" and "spare shirt," "leathern breeches"
and "gauze cap to keep off gnats," with as much complacency as Bonaparte a
park of artillery for the Russian campaign. The quiet bravery of the man
is admirable. His eye is to take in fish, flower, and bird, quadruped and
biped. Science is always brave, for to know, is to know good; doubt and
danger quail before her eye. What the coward overlooks in his hurry, she
calmly scrutinizes, breaking ground like a pioneer for the array of arts
that follow in her train. But cowardice is unscientific; for there cannot
be a science of ignorance. There may be a science of bravery, for that
advances; but a retreat is rarely well conducted; if it is, then is it an
orderly advance in the face of circumstances.

But to draw a little nearer to our promised topics. Entomology extends the
limits of being in a new direction, so that I walk in nature with a sense
of greater space and freedom. It suggests besides, that the universe is
not rough-hewn, but perfect in its details. Nature will bear the closest
inspection; she invites us to lay our eye level with the smallest leaf,
and take an insect view of its plain. She has no interstices; every part
is full of life. I explore, too, with pleasure, the sources of the myriad
sounds which crowd the summer noon, and which seem the very grain and
stuff of which eternity is made. Who does not remember the shrill
roll-call of the harvest fly? There were ears for these sounds in Greece
long ago, as Anacreon's ode will show.

"We pronounce thee happy, Cicada,
For on the tops of the trees,
Drinking a little dew,
Like any king thou singest,
For thine are they all,
Whatever thou seest in the fields,
And whatever the woods bear.
Thou art the friend of the husbandmen,
In no respect injuring any one;
And thou art honored among men,
Sweet prophet of summer.
The Muses love thee,
And Phoebus himself loves thee,
And has given thee a shrill song;
Age does not wrack thee,
Thou skilful, earthborn, song-loving,
Unsuffering, bloodless one;
Almost thou art like the gods."

In the autumn days, the creaking of crickets is heard at noon over all the
land, and as in summer they are heard chiefly at nightfall, so then by
their incessant chirp they usher in the evening of the year. Nor can all
the vanities that vex the world alter one whit the measure that night has
chosen. Every pulse-beat is in exact time with the cricket's chant and the
tickings of the deathwatch in the wall. Alternate with these if you can.

About two hundred and eighty birds either reside permanently in the State,
or spend the summer only, or make us a passing visit. Those which spend
the winter with us have obtained our warmest sympathy. The nut-hatch and
chicadee flitting in company through the dells of the wood, the one
harshly scolding at the intruder, the other with a faint lisping note
enticing him on; the jay screaming in the orchard; the crow cawing in
unison with the storm; the partridge, like a russet link extended over
from autumn to spring, preserving unbroken the chain of summers; the hawk
with warrior-like firmness abiding the blasts of winter; the robin
[Footnote: A white robin, and a white quail have occasionally been seen.
It is mentioned in Audubon as remarkable that the nest of a robin should
be found on the ground; but this bird seems to be less particular than
most in the choice of a building spot. I have seen its nest placed under
the thatched roof of a deserted barn, and in one instance, where the
adjacent country was nearly destitute of trees, together with two of the
phoebe, upon the end of a board in the loft of a saw-mill, but a few feet
from the saw, which vibrated several inches with the motion of the
machinery.]
and lark lurking by warm springs in the woods; the familiar snow-bird
culling a few seeds in the garden, or a few crumbs in the yard; and
occasionally the shrike, with heedless and unfrozen melody bringing back
summer again;--

His steady sails he never furls
At any time o' year,
And perching now on Winter's curls,
He whistles in his ear.

As the spring advances, and the ice is melting in the river, our earliest
and straggling visitors make their appearance. Again does the old Teian
poet sing, as well for New England as for Greece, in the

RETURN OF SPRING.

"Behold, how Spring appearing,
The Graces send forth roses;
Behold, how the wave of the sea
Is made smooth by the calm;
Behold, how the duck dives;
Behold, how the crane travels;
And Titan shines constantly bright.
The shadows of the clouds are moving;
The works of man shine;
The earth puts forth fruits;
The fruit of the olive puts forth.
The cup of Bacchus is crowned,
Along the leaves, along the branches,
The fruit, bending them down, flourishes."

The ducks alight at this season in the still water, in company with the
gulls, which do not fail to improve an east wind to visit our meadows, and
swim about by twos and threes, pluming themselves, and diving to peck at
the root of the lily, and the cranberries which the frost has not
loosened. The first flock of geese is seen beating to north, in long
harrows and waving lines; the gingle of the song-sparrow salutes us from
the shrubs and fences; the plaintive note of the lark comes clear and
sweet from the meadow; and the bluebird, like an azure ray, glances past
us in our walk. The fish-hawk, too, is occasionally seen at this season
sailing majestically over the water, and he who has once observed it will
not soon forget the majesty of its flight. It sails the air like a ship of
the line, worthy to struggle with the elements, falling back from time to
time like a ship on its beam ends, and holding its talons up as if ready
for the arrows, in the attitude of the national bird. It is a great
presence, as of the master of river and forest. Its eye would not quail
before the owner of the soil, but make him feel like an intruder on its
domains. And then its retreat, sailing so steadily away, is a kind of
advance. I have by me one of a pair of ospreys, which have for some years
fished in this vicinity, shot by a neighboring pond, measuring more than
two feet in length, and six in the stretch of its wings. Nuttall mentions
that "The ancients, particularly Aristotle, pretended that the ospreys
taught their young to gaze at the sun, and those who were unable to do so
were destroyed. Linnaeus even believed, on ancient authority, that one of
the feet of this bird had all the toes divided, while the other was partly
webbed, so that it could swim with one foot, and grasp a fish with the
other." But that educated eye is now dim, and those talons are nerveless.
Its shrill scream seems yet to linger in its throat, and the roar of the
sea in its wings. There is the tyranny of Jove in its claws, and his wrath
in the erectile feathers of the head and neck. It reminds me of the
Argonautic expedition, and would inspire the dullest to take flight over
Parnassus.

The booming of the bittern, described by Goldsmith and Nuttall, is
frequently heard in our fens, in the morning and evening, sounding like
a pump, or the chopping of wood in a frosty morning in some distant
farm-yard. The manner in which this sound is produced I have not seen
anywhere described. On one occasion, the bird has been seen by one of my
neighbors to thrust its bill into the water, and suck up as much as it
could hold, then raising its head, it pumped it out again with four or
five heaves of the neck, throwing it two or three feet, and making the
sound each time.

At length the summer's eternity is ushered in by the cackle of the flicker
among the oaks on the hill-side, and a new dynasty begins with calm
security.

In May and June the woodland quire is in full tune, and given the immense
spaces of hollow air, and this curious human ear, one does not see how the
void could be better filled.

  Each summer sound
  Is a summer round.

As the season advances, and those birds which make us but a passing visit
depart, the woods become silent again, and but few feathers ruffle the
drowsy air. But the solitary rambler may still find a response and
expression for every mood in the depths of the wood.

Sometimes-I hear the veery's[+] clarion,
Or brazen trump of the impatient jay,
And in secluded woods the chicadee
Doles out her scanty notes, which sing the praise
Of heroes, and set forth the loveliness
Of virtue evermore.

[Footnote +: This bird, which is so well described by Nuttall, but is
apparently unknown by the author of the Report, is one of the most common
in the woods in this vicinity, and in Cambridge I have heard the college
yard ring with its trill. The boys call it "_yorrick_," from the sound of
its querulous and chiding note, as it flits near the traveller through the
underwood. The cowbird's egg is occasionally found in its nest, as
mentioned by Audubon.]

The phoebe still sings in harmony with the sultry weather by the brink of
the pond, nor are the desultory hours of noon in the midst of the village
without their minstrel.

Upon the lofty elm-tree sprays
The vireo rings the changes sweet,
During the trivial summer days,
Striving to lift our thoughts above the street.

With the autumn begins in some measure a new spring. The plover is heard
whistling high in the air over the dry pastures, the finches flit from
tree to tree, the bobolinks and flickers fly in flocks, and the goldfinch
rides on the earliest blast, like a winged hyla peeping amid the rustle of
the leaves. The crows, too, begin now to congregate; you may stand and
count them as they fly low and straggling over the landscape, singly or by
twos and threes, at intervals of half a mile, until a hundred have passed.

I have seen it suggested somewhere that the crow was brought to this
country by the white man; but I shall as soon believe that the white man
planted these pines and hemlocks. He is no spaniel to follow our steps;
but rather flits about the clearings like the dusky spirit of the Indian,
reminding me oftener of Philip and Powhatan, than of Winthrop and Smith.
He is a relic of the dark ages. By just so slight, by just so lasting a
tenure does superstition hold the world ever; there is the rook in
England, and the crow in New England.

Thou dusky spirit of the wood,
Bird of an ancient brood,
Flitting thy lonely way,
A meteor in the summer's day,
From wood to wood, from hill to hill,
Low over forest, field, and rill,
What wouldst thou say?
Why shouldst thou haunt the day?
What makes thy melancholy float?
What bravery inspires thy throat,
And bears thee up above the clouds,
Over desponding human crowds,
Which far below
Lay thy haunts low?

The late walker or sailor, in the October evenings, may hear the
murmurings of the snipe, circling over the meadows, the most spirit-like
sound in nature; and still later in the autumn, when the frosts have
tinged the leaves, a solitary loon pays a visit to our retired ponds,
where he may lurk undisturbed till the season of moulting is passed,
making the woods ring with his wild laughter. This bird, the Great
Northern Diver, well deserves its name; for when pursued with a boat, it
will dive, and swim like a fish under water, for sixty rods or more, as
fast as a boat can be paddled, and its pursuer, if he would discover his
game again, must put his ear to the surface to hear where it comes up.
When it comes to the surface, it throws the water off with one shake of
its wings, and calmly swims about until again disturbed.

These are the sights and sounds which reach our senses oftenest during the
year. But sometimes one hears a quite new note, which has for background
other Carolinas and Mexicos than the books describe, and learns that his
ornithology has done him no service.

It appears from the Report that there are about forty quadrupeds belonging
to the State, and among these one is glad to hear of a few bears, wolves,
lynxes, and wildcats.

When our river overflows its banks in the spring, the wind from the
meadows is laden with a strong scent of musk, and by its freshness
advertises me of an unexplored wildness. Those backwoods are not far off
then. I am affected by the sight of the cabins of the musk-rat, made of
mud and grass, and raised three or four feet along the river, as when I
read of the barrows of Asia. The musk-rat is the beaver of the settled
States. Their number has even increased within a few years in this
vicinity. Among the rivers which empty into the Merrimack, the Concord is
known to the boatmen as a dead stream. The Indians are said to have called
it Musketaquid, or Prairie River. Its current being much more sluggish,
and its water more muddy than the rest, it abounds more in fish and game
of every kind. According to the History of the town, "The fur-trade was
here once very important. As early as 1641, a company was formed in the
colony, of which Major Willard of Concord was superintendent, and had the
exclusive right to trade with the Indians in furs and other articles; and
for this right they were obliged to pay into the public treasury one
twentieth of all the furs they obtained." There are trappers in our midst
still, as well as on the streams of the far West, who night and morning go
the round of their traps, without fear of the Indian. One of these takes
from one hundred and fifty to two hundred musk-rats in a year, and even
thirty-six have been shot by one man in a day. Their fur, which is not
nearly as valuable as formerly, is in good condition in the winter and
spring only; and upon the breaking up of the ice, when they are driven out
of their holes by the water, the greatest number is shot from boats,
either swimming or resting on their stools, or slight supports of grass
and reeds, by the side of the stream. Though they exhibit considerable
cunning at other times, they are easily taken in a trap, which has only to
be placed in their holes, or wherever they frequent, without any bait
being used, though it is sometimes rubbed with their musk. In the winter
the hunter cuts holes in the ice, and shoots them when they come to the
surface. Their burrows are usually in the high banks of the river, with
the entrance under water, and rising within to above the level of high
water. Sometimes their nests, composed of dried meadow grass and flags,
may be discovered where the bank is low and spongy, by the yielding of the
ground under the feet. They have from three to seven or eight young in the
spring.

Frequently, in the morning or evening, a long ripple is seen in the still
water, where a musk-rat is crossing the stream, with only its nose above
the surface, and sometimes a green bough in its mouth to build its house
with. When it finds itself observed, it will dive and swim five or six
rods under water, and at length conceal itself in its hole, or the weeds.
It will remain under water for ten minutes at a time, and on one occasion
has been seen, when undisturbed, to form an air-bubble under the ice,
which contracted and expanded as it breathed at leisure. When it suspects
danger on shore, it will stand erect like a squirrel, and survey its
neighborhood for several minutes, without moving.

In the fall, if a meadow intervene between their burrows and the stream,
they erect cabins of mud and grass, three or four feet high, near its
edge. These are not their breeding-places, though young are sometimes
found in them in late freshets, but rather their hunting-lodges, to which
they resort in the winter with their food, and for shelter. Their food
consists chiefly of flags and fresh-water muscles, the shells of the
latter being left in large quantities around their lodges in the spring.

The Penobscot Indian wears the entire skin of a musk-rat, with the legs
and tail dangling, and the head caught under his girdle, for a pouch, into
which he puts his fishing tackle, and essences to scent his traps with.

The bear, wolf, lynx, wildcat, deer, beaver, and marten, have disappeared;
the otter is rarely if ever seen here at present; and the mink is less
common than formerly.

Perhaps of all our untamed quadrupeds, the fox has obtained the widest and
most familiar reputation, from the time of Pilpay and Aesop to the present
day. His recent tracks still give variety to a winter's walk. I tread in
the steps of the fox that has gone before me by some hours, or which
perhaps I have started, with such a tiptoe of expectation, as if I were on
the trail of the Spirit itself which resides in the wood, and expected
soon to catch it in its lair. I am curious to know what has determined its
graceful curvatures, and how surely they were coincident with the
fluctuations of some mind. I know which way a mind wended, what horizon it
faced, by the setting of these tracks, and whether it moved slowly or
rapidly, by their greater or less intervals and distinctness; for the
swiftest step leaves yet a lasting trace. Sometimes you will see the
trails of many together, and where they have gambolled and gone through a
hundred evolutions, which testify to a singular listlessness and leisure
in nature.

When I see a fox run across the pond on the snow, with the carelessness of
freedom, or at intervals trace his course in the sunshine along the ridge
of a hill, I give up to him sun and earth as to their true proprietor. He
does not go in the sun, but it seems to follow him, and there is a visible
sympathy between him and it. Sometimes, when the snow lies light, and but
five or six inches deep, you may give chase and come up with one on foot.
In such a case he will show a remarkable presence of mind, choosing only
the safest direction, though he may lose ground by it. Notwithstanding his
fright, he will take no step which is not beautiful. His pace is a sort of
leopard canter, as if he were in nowise impeded by the snow, but were
husbanding his strength all the while. When the ground is uneven, the
course is a series of graceful curves, conforming to the shape of the
surface. He runs as though there were not a bone in his back. Occasionally
dropping his muzzle to the ground for a rod or two, and then tossing his
head aloft, when satisfied of his course. When he comes to a declivity, he
will put his forefeet together, and slide swiftly down it, shoving the
snow before him. He treads so softly that you would hardly hear it from
any nearness, and yet with such expression that it would not be quite
inaudible at any distance.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of fishes, seventy-five genera and one hundred and seven species are
described in the Report. The fisherman will be startled to learn that
there are but about a dozen kinds in the ponds and streams of any inland
town; and almost nothing is known of their habits. Only their names and
residence make one love fishes. I would know even the number of their
fin-rays, and how many scales compose the lateral line. I am the wiser in
respect to all knowledges, and the better qualified for all fortunes, for
knowing that there is a minnow in the brook. Methinks I have need even of
his sympathy, and to be his fellow in a degree.

I have experienced such simple delight in the trivial matters of fishing
and sporting, formerly, as might have inspired the muse of Homer or
Shakspeare; and now, when I turn the pages and ponder the plates of the
Angler's Souvenir, I am fain to exclaim,--

               "Can these things be,
  And overcome us like a summer's cloud?"

Next to nature, it seems as if man's actions were the most natural, they
so gently accord with her. The small seines of flax stretched across the
shallow and transparent parts of our river, are no more intrusion than the
cobweb in the sun. I stay my boat in midcurrent, and look down in the
sunny water to see the civil meshes of his nets, and wonder how the
blustering people of the town could have done this elvish work. The twine
looks like a new river weed, and is to the river as a beautiful memento of
man's presence in nature, discovered as silently and delicately as a
footprint in the sand.

When the ice is covered with snow, I do not suspect the wealth under my
feet; that there is as good as a mine under me wherever I go. How many
pickerel are poised on easy fin fathoms below the loaded wain. The
revolution of the seasons must be a curious phenomenon to them. At length
the sun and wind brush aside their curtain, and they see the heavens
again.

Early in the spring, after the ice has melted, is the time for spearing
fish. Suddenly the wind shifts from northeast and east to west and south,
and every icicle, which has tinkled on the meadow grass so long, trickles
down its stem, and seeks its level unerringly with a million comrades. The
steam curls up from every roof and fence.

  I see the civil sun drying earth's tears,
  Her tears of joy, which only faster flow.

In the brooks is heard the slight grating sound of small cakes of ice,
floating with various speed, full of content and promise, and where the
water gurgles under a natural bridge, you may hear these hasty rafts hold
conversation in an undertone. Every rill is a channel for the juices of
the meadow. In the ponds the ice cracks with a merry and inspiriting din,
and down the larger streams is whirled grating hoarsely, and crashing its
way along, which was so lately a highway for the woodman's team and the
fox, sometimes with the tracks of the skaters still fresh upon it, and the
holes cut for pickerel. Town committees anxiously inspect the bridges and
causeways, as if by mere eye-force to intercede with the ice, and save the
treasury.

The river swelleth more and more,
Like some sweet influence stealing o'er
The passive town; and for a while
Each tussuck makes a tiny isle,
Where, on some friendly Ararat,
Resteth the weary water-rat.

No ripple shows Musketaquid,
Her very current e'en is hid,
As deepest souls do calmest rest,
When thoughts are swelling in the breast,
And she that in the summer's drought
Doth make a rippling and a rout,
Sleeps from Nabshawtuck to the Cliff,
Unruffled by a single skiff.
But by a thousand distant hills
The louder roar a thousand rills,
And many a spring which now is dumb,
And many a stream with smothered hum,
Doth swifter well and faster glide,
Though buried deep beneath the tide.

Our village shows a rural Venice,
Its broad lagoons where yonder fen is;
As lovely as the Bay of Naples
Yon placid cove amid the maples;
And in my neighbor's field of corn
I recognize the Golden Horn.

Here Nature taught from year to year,
When only red men came to hear,
Methinks 'twas in this school of art
Venice and Naples learned their part;
But still their mistress, to my mind,
Her young disciples leaves behind.

The fisherman now repairs and launches his boat. The best time for
spearing is at this season, before the weeds have begun to grow, and while
the fishes lie in the shallow water, for in summer they prefer the cool
depths, and in the autumn they are still more or less concealed by the
grass. The first requisite is fuel for your crate; and for this purpose
the roots of the pitchpine are commonly used, found under decayed stumps,
where the trees have been felled eight or ten years.

With a crate, or jack, made of iron hoops, to contain your fire, and
attached to the bow of your boat about three feet from the water, a
fish-spear with seven tines, and fourteen feet long, a large basket, or
barrow, to carry your fuel and bring back your fish, and a thick outer
garment, you are equipped for a cruise. It should be a warm and still
evening; and then with a fire crackling merrily at the prow, you may
launch forth like a cucullo into the night. The dullest soul cannot go
upon such an expedition without some of the spirit of adventure; as if
he had stolen the boat of Charon and gone down the Styx on a midnight
expedition into the realms of Pluto. And much speculation does this
wandering star afford to the musing nightwalker, leading him on and on,
jack-o'lantern-like, over the meadows; or, if he is wiser, he amuses
himself with imagining what of human life, far in the silent night, is
flitting mothlike round its candle. The silent navigator shoves his craft
gently over the water, with a smothered pride and sense of benefaction, as
if he were the phosphor, or light-bringer, to these dusky realms, or some
sister moon, blessing the spaces with her light. The waters, for a rod or
two on either hand and several feet in depth, are lit up with more than
noonday distinctness, and he enjoys the opportunity which so many have
desired, for the roofs of a city are indeed raised, and he surveys the
midnight economy of the fishes. There they lie in every variety of
posture; some on their backs, with their white bellies uppermost, some
suspended in midwater, some sculling gently along with a dreamy motion of
the fins, and others quite active and wide awake,--a scene not unlike what
the human city would present. Occasionally he will encounter a turtle
selecting the choicest morsels, or a musk-rat resting on a tussuck. He may
exercise his dexterity, if he sees fit, on the more distant and active
fish, or fork the nearer into his boat, as potatoes out of a pot, or even
take the sound sleepers with his hands. But these last accomplishments he
will soon learn to dispense with, distinguishing the real object of his
pursuit, and find compensation in the beauty and never-ending novelty of
his position. The pines growing down to the water's edge will show newly
as in the glare of a conflagration; and as he floats under the willows
with his light, the song-sparrow will often wake on her perch, and sing
that strain at midnight, which she had meditated for the morning. And when
he has done, he may have to steer his way home through the dark by the
north star, and he will feel himself some degrees nearer to it for having
lost his way on the earth.

The fishes commonly taken in this way are pickerel, suckers, perch, eels,
pouts, breams, and shiners,--from thirty to sixty weight in a night.
Some are hard to be recognized in the unnatural light, especially the
perch, which, his dark bands being exaggerated, acquires a ferocious
aspect. The number of these transverse bands, which the Report states to
be seven, is, however, very variable, for in some of our ponds they have
nine and ten even.

       *       *       *       *       *

It appears that we have eight kinds of tortoises, twelve snakes,--but one
of which is venomous,--nine frogs and toads, nine salamanders, and one
lizard, for our neighbors.

I am particularly attracted by the motions of the serpent tribe. They make
our hands and feet, the wings of the bird, and the fins of the fish seems
very superfluous, as if nature had only indulged her fancy in making them.
The black snake will dart into a bush when pursued, and circle round and
round with an easy and graceful motion, amid the thin and bare twigs, five
or six feet from the ground, as a bird flits from bough to bough, or hang
in festoons between the forks. Elasticity and flexibleness in the simpler
forms of animal life are equivalent to a complex system of limbs in the
higher; and we have only to be as wise and wily as the serpent, to perform
as difficult feats without the vulgar assistance of hands and feet.

In May, the snapping turtle, _Emysaurus serpentina,_ is frequently taken
on the meadows and in the river. The fisherman, taking sight over the calm
surface, discovers its snout projecting above the water, at the distance
of many rods, and easily secures his prey through its unwillingness to
disturb the water by swimming hastily away, for, gradually drawing its
head under, it remains resting on some limb or clump of grass. Its eggs,
which are buried at a distance from the water, in some soft place, as a
pigeon-bed, are frequently devoured by the skunk. It will catch fish by
daylight, as a toad catches flies, and is said to emit a transparent fluid
from its mouth to attract them.

Nature has taken more care than the fondest parent for the education and
refinement of her children. Consider the silent influence which flowers
exert, no less upon the ditcher in the meadow than the lady in the bower.
When I walk in the woods, I am reminded that a wise purveyor has been
there before me; my most delicate experience is typified there. I am
struck with the pleasing friendships and unanimities of nature, as when
the lichen on the trees takes the form of their leaves. In the most
stupendous scenes you will see delicate and fragile features, as slight
wreaths of vapor, dewlines, feathery sprays, which suggest a high
refinement, a noble blood and breeding, as it were. It is not hard to
account for elves and fairies; they represent this light grace, this
ethereal gentility. Bring a spray from the wood, or a crystal from the
brook, and place it on your mantel, and your household ornaments will seem
plebeian beside its nobler fashion and bearing. It will wave superior
there, as if used to a more refined and polished circle. It has a salute
and a response to all your enthusiasm and heroism.

In the winter, I stop short in the path to admire how the trees grow up
without forethought, regardless of the time and circumstances. They do not
wait as man does, but now is the golden age of the sapling. Earth, air,
sun, and rain, are occasion enough; they were no better in primeval
centuries. The "winter of _their_ discontent" never comes. Witness the
buds of the native poplar standing gayly out to the frost on the sides of
its bare switches. They express a naked confidence. With cheerful heart
one could be a sojourner in the wilderness, if he were sure to find there
the catkins of the willow or the alder. When I read of them in the
accounts of northern adventurers, by Baffin's Bay or Mackenzie's river, I
see how even there too I could dwell. They are our little vegetable
redeemers. Methinks our virtue will hold out till they come again. They
are worthy to have had a greater than Minerva or Ceres for their inventor.
Who was the benignant goddess that bestowed them on mankind?

Nature is mythical and mystical always, and works with the license and
extravagance of genius. She has her luxurious and florid style as well as
art. Having a pilgrim's cup to make, she gives to the whole, stem, bowl,
handle, and nose, some fantastic shape, as if it were to be the car of
some fabulous marine deity, a Nereus or Triton.

In the winter, the botanist needs not confine himself to his books and
herbarium, and give over his out-door pursuits, but may study a new
department of vegetable physiology, what may be called crystalline botany,
then. The winter of 1837 was unusually favorable for this. In December of
that year, the Genius of vegetation seemed to hover by night over its
summer haunts with unusual persistency. Such a hoarfrost, as is very
uncommon here or anywhere, and whose full effects can never be witnessed
after sunrise, occurred several times. As I went forth early on a still
and frosty morning, the trees looked like airy creatures of darkness
caught napping; on this side huddled together with their gray hairs
streaming in a secluded valley, which the sun had not penetrated; on that
hurrying off in Indian file along some watercourse, while the shrubs and
grasses, like elves and fairies of the night, sought to hide their
diminished heads in the snow. The river, viewed from the high bank,
appeared of a yellowish green color, though all the landscape was white.
Every tree, shrub, and spire of grass, that could raise its head above the
snow, was covered with a dense ice-foliage, answering, as it were, leaf
for leaf to its summer dress. Even the fences had put forth leaves in the
night. The centre, diverging, and more minute fibres were perfectly
distinct, and the edges regularly indented. These leaves were on the side
of the twig or stubble opposite to the sun, meeting it for the most part
at right angles, and there were others standing out at all possible angles
upon these and upon one another, with no twig or stubble supporting them.
When the first rays of the sun slanted over the scene, the grasses seemed
hung with innumerable jewels, which jingled merrily as they were brushed
by the foot of the traveller, and reflected all the hues of the rainbow
as he moved from side to side. It struck me that these ghost leaves, and
the green ones whose forms they assume, were the creatures of but one law;
that in obedience to the same law the vegetable juices swell gradually
into the perfect leaf, on the one hand, and the crystalline particles
troop to their standard in the same order, on the other. As if the
material were indifferent, but the law one and invariable, and every plant
in the spring but pushed up into and filled a permanent and eternal mould,
which, summer and winter forever, is waiting to be filled.

This foliate structure is common to the coral and the plumage of birds,
and to how large a part of animate and inanimate nature. The same
independence of law on matter is observable in many other instances, as in
the natural rhymes, when some animal form, color, or odor, has its
counterpart in some vegetable. As, indeed, all rhymes imply an eternal
melody, independent of any particular sense.

As confirmation of the fact, that vegetation is but a kind of
crystallization, every one may observe how, upon the edge of the melting
frost on the window, the needle-shaped particles are bundled together
so as to resemble fields waving with grain, or shocks rising here and
there from the stubble; on one side the vegetation of the torrid zone,
high-towering palms and widespread banyans, such as are seen in pictures
of oriental scenery; on the other, arctic pines stiff frozen, with
downcast branches.

Vegetation has been made the type of all growth; but as in crystals the
law is more obvious, their material being more simple, and for the most
part more transient and fleeting, would it not be as philosophical as
convenient to consider all growth, all filling up within the limits of
nature, but a crystallization more or less rapid?

On this occasion, in the side of the high bank of the river, wherever
the water or other cause had formed a cavity, its throat and outer edge,
like the entrance to a citadel, bristled with a glistening ice-armor.
In one place you might see minute ostrich-feathers, which seemed the
waving plumes of the warriors filing into the fortress; in another, the
glancing, fan-shaped banners of the Lilliputian host; and in another, the
needle-shaped particles collected into bundles, resembling the plumes of
the pine, might pass for a phalanx of spears. From the under side of the
ice in the brooks, where there was a thicker ice below, depended a mass of
crystallization, four or five inches deep, in the form of prisms, with
their lower ends open, which, when the ice was laid on its smooth side,
resembled the roofs and steeples of a Gothic city, or the vessels of a
crowded haven under a press of canvas. The very mud in the road, where the
ice had melted, was crystallized with deep rectilinear fissures, and the
crystalline masses in the sides of the ruts resembled exactly asbestos in
the disposition of their needles. Around the roots of the stubble and
flower-stalks, the frost was gathered into the form of irregular conical
shells, or fairy rings. In some places the ice-crystals were lying upon
granite rocks, directly over crystals of quartz, the frost-work of a
longer night, crystals of a longer period, but to some eye unprejudiced by
the short term of human life, melting as fast as the former.

In the Report on the Invertebrate Animals, this singular fact is recorded,
which teaches us to put a new value on time and space. "The distribution
of the marine shells is well worthy of notice as a geological fact. Cape
Cod, the right arm of the Commonwealth, reaches out into the ocean, some
fifty or sixty miles. It is nowhere many miles wide; but this narrow point
of land has hitherto proved a barrier to the migrations of many species of
Mollusca. Several genera and numerous species, which are separated by the
intervention of only a few miles of land, are effectually prevented from
mingling by the Cape, and do not pass from one side to the other.... Of
the one hundred and ninety-seven marine species, eighty-three do not pass
to the south shore, and fifty are not found on the north shore of the
Cape."

That common muscle, the _Unio complanalus_, or more properly
_fluviatilis_, left in the spring by the musk-rat upon rocks and stumps,
appears to have been an important article of food with the Indians. In one
place, where they are said to have feasted, they are found in large
quantities, at an elevation of thirty feet above the river, filling the
soil to the depth of a foot, and mingled with ashes and Indian remains.

The works we have placed at the head of our chapter, with as much license,
as the preacher selects his text, are such as imply more labor than
enthusiasm. The State wanted complete catalogues of its natural riches,
with such additional facts merely as would be directly useful.

The reports on Fishes, Reptiles, Insects, and Invertebrate Animals,
however, indicate labor and research, and have a value independent of the
object of the legislature.

Those on Herbaceous Plants and Birds cannot be of much value, as long as
Bigelow and Nuttall are accessible. They serve but to indicate, with more
or less exactness, what species are found in the State. We detect several
errors ourselves, and a more practised eye would no doubt expand the list.

The Quadrupeds deserved a more final and instructive report than they have
obtained.

These volumes deal much in measurements and minute descriptions, not
interesting to the general reader, with only here and there a colored
sentence to allure him, like those plants growing in dark forests, which
bear only leaves without blossoms. But the ground was comparatively
unbroken, and we will not complain of the pioneer, if he raises no flowers
with his first crop. Let us not underrate the value of a fact; it will one
day flower in a truth. It is astonishing how few facts of importance are
added in a century to the natural history of any animal. The natural
history of man himself is still being gradually written. Men are knowing
enough after their fashion. Every countryman and dairymaid knows that the
coats of the fourth stomach of the calf will curdle milk, and what
particular mushroom is a safe and nutritious diet. You cannot go into any
field or wood, but it will seem as if every stone had been turned, and the
bark on every tree ripped up. But, after all, it is much easier to
discover than to see when the cover is off! It has been well said that
"the attitude of inspection is prone." Wisdom does not inspect, but
behold. We must look a long time before we can see. Slow are the
beginnings of philosophy. He has something demoniacal in him, who can
discern a law or couple two facts. We can imagine a time when,--"Water
runs down hill,"--may have been taught in the schools. The true man of
science will know nature better by his finer organization; he will smell,
taste, see, hear, feel, better than other men. His will be a deeper and
finer experience. We do not learn by inference and deduction, and the
application of mathematics to philosophy, but by direct intercourse and
sympathy. It is with science as with ethics,--we cannot know truth by
contrivance and method; the Baconian is as false as any other, and with
all the helps of machinery and the arts, the most scientific will still be
the healthiest and friendliest man, and possess a more perfect Indian
wisdom.



A WALK TO WACHUSETT.

[1843.]

  The needles of the pine
  All to the west incline.

CONCORD, _July_ 19, 1842.

Summer and winter our eyes had rested on the dim outline of the mountains
in our horizon, to which distance and indistinctness lent a grandeur not
their own, so that they served equally to interpret all the allusions of
poets and travellers; whether with Homer, on a spring morning, we sat down
on the many-peaked Olympus, or, with Virgil and his compeers, roamed the
Etrurian and Thessalian hills, or with Humboldt measured the more modern
Andes and Teneriffe. Thus we spoke our mind to them, standing on the
Concord cliffs.--

With frontier strength ye stand your ground,
With grand content ye circle round,
Tumultuous silence for all sound,
Ye distant nursery of rills,
Monadnock, and the Peterboro' hills;
Like some vast fleet,
Sailing through rain and sleet,
Through winter's cold and summer's heat;
Still holding on, upon your high emprise,
Until ye find a shore amid the skies;
Not skulking close to land,
With cargo contraband.
For they who sent a venture out by ye
Have set the sun to see
Their honesty.
Ships of the line, each one,
Ye to the westward run,
Always before the gale,
Under a press of sail,
With weight of metal all untold.
I seem to feel ye, in my firm seat here,
Immeasurable depth of hold,
And breadth of beam, and length of running gear.

Methinks ye take luxurious pleasure
In your novel western leisure;
So cool your brows, and freshly blue,
As Time had nought for ye to do;
For ye lie at your length,
An unappropriated strength,
Unhewn primeval timber,
For knees so stiff, for masts so limber;
The stock of which new earths are made,
One day to be our western trade,
Fit for the stanchions of a world
Which through the seas of space is hurled.

While we enjoy a lingering ray,
Ye still o'ertop the western day,
Reposing yonder, on God's croft,
Like solid stacks of hay.
Edged with silver, and with gold,
The clouds hang o'er in damask fold,
And with such depth of amber light
The west is dight,
Where still a few rays slant,
That even heaven seems extravagant.
On the earth's edge mountains and trees
Stand as they were on air graven,
Or as the vessels in a haven
Await the morning breeze.
I fancy even
Through your defiles windeth the way to heaven;
And yonder still, in spite of history's page,
Linger the golden and the silver age;
Upon the laboring gale
The news of future centuries is brought,
And of new dynasties of thought,
From your remotest vale.

But special I remember thee,
Wachusett, who like me
Standest alone without society.
Thy far blue eye,
A remnant of the sky,
Seen through the clearing or the gorge,
Or from the windows on the forge,
Doth leaven all it passes by.
Nothing is true,
But stands 'tween me and you,
Thou western pioneer,
Who know'st not shame nor fear,
By venturous spirit driven,
Under the eaves of heaven,
And can'st expand thee there,
And breathe enough of air?
Upholding heaven, holding down earth,
Thy pastime from thy birth,
Not steadied by the one, nor leaning on the other;
May I approve myself thy worthy brother!

At length, like Rasselas, and other inhabitants of happy valleys, we
resolved to scale the blue wall which bound the western horizon, though
not without misgivings, that thereafter no visible fairy land would exist
for us. But we will not leap at once to our journey's end, though near,
but imitate Homer, who conducts his reader over the plain, and along the
resounding sea, though it be but to the tent of Achilles. In the spaces of
thought are the reaches of land and water, where men go and come. The
landscape lies far and fair within, and the deepest thinker is the
farthest travelled.

At a cool and early hour on a pleasant morning in July, my companion and I
passed rapidly through Acton and Stow, stopping to rest and refresh us on
the bank of a small stream, a tributary of the Assabet, in the latter
town. As we traversed the cool woods of Acton, with stout staves in our
hands, we were cheered by the song of the red-eye, the thrushes, the
phoebe, and the cuckoo; and as we passed through the open country, we
inhaled the fresh scent of every field, and all nature lay passive, to be
viewed and travelled. Every rail, every farm-house, seen dimly in the
twilight, every tinkling sound told of peace and purity, and we moved
happily along the dank roads, enjoying not such privacy as the day leaves
when it withdraws, but such as it has not profaned. It was solitude with
light; which is better than darkness. But anon, the sound of the mower's
rifle was heard in the fields, and this, too, mingled with the lowing
kine.

This part of our route lay through the country of hops, which plant
perhaps supplies the want of the vine in American scenery, and may remind
the traveller of Italy, and the South of France, whether he traverses the
country when the hop-fields, as then, present solid and regular masses of
verdure, hanging in graceful festoons from pole to pole; the cool coverts
where lurk the gales which refresh the wayfarer; or in September, when the
women and children, and the neighbors from far and near, are gathered to
pick the hops into long troughs; or later still, when the poles stand
piled in vast pyramids in the yards, or lie in heaps by the roadside.

The culture of the hop, with the processes of picking, drying in the kiln,
and packing for the market, as well as the uses to which it is applied,
so analogous to the culture and uses of the grape, may afford a theme for
future poets.

The mower in the adjacent meadow could not tell us the name of the brook
on whose banks we had rested, or whether it had any, but his younger
companion, perhaps his brother, knew that it was Great Brook. Though they
stood very near together in the field, the things they knew were very far
apart; nor did they suspect each other's reserved knowledge, till the
stranger came by. In Bolton, while we rested on the rails of a cottage
fence, the strains of music which issued from within, probably in
compliment to us, sojourners, reminded us that thus far men were fed by
the accustomed pleasures. So soon did we, wayfarers, begin to learn that
man's life is rounded with the same few facts, the same simple relations
everywhere, and it is vain to travel to find it new. The flowers grow more
various ways than he. But coming soon to higher land, which afforded a
prospect of the mountains, we thought we had not travelled in vain, if it
were only to hear a truer and wilder pronunciation of their names, from
the lips of the inhabitants; not _Way_-tatic, _Way_-chusett, but
_Wor_-tatic, _Wor_-chusett. It made us ashamed of our tame and civil
pronunciation, and we looked upon them as born and bred farther west than
we. Their tongues had a more generous accent than ours, as if breath was
cheaper where they wagged. A countryman, who speaks but seldom, talks
copiously, as it were, as his wife sets cream and cheese before you
without stint. Before noon we had reached the highlands overlooking the
valley of Lancaster, (affording the first fair and open prospect into the
west,) and there, on the top of a hill, in the shade of some oaks, near to
where a spring bubbled out from a leaden pipe, we rested during the heat
of the day, reading Virgil, and enjoying the scenery. It was such a place
as one feels to be on the outside of the earth, for from it we could, in
some measure, see the form and structure of the globe. There lay
Wachusett, the object of our journey, lowering upon us with unchanged
proportions, though with a less ethereal aspect than had greeted our
morning gaze, while further north, in successive order, slumbered its
sister mountains along the horizon.

We could get no further into the Aeneid than

  --atque altae moenia Romae,
  --and the wall of high Rome,

before we were constrained to reflect by what myriad tests a work of
genius has to be tried; that Virgil, away in Rome, two thousand years off,
should have to unfold his meaning, the inspiration of Italian vales, to
the pilgrim on New England hills. This life so raw and modern, that so
civil and ancient; and yet we read Virgil, mainly to be reminded of the
identity of human nature in all ages, and, by the poet's own account, we
are both the children of a late age, and live equally under the reign of
Jupiter.

"He shook honey from the leaves, and removed fire,
And stayed the wine, everywhere flowing in rivers;
That experience, by meditating, might invent various arts
By degrees, and seek the blade of corn in furrows,
And strike out hidden fire from the veins of the flint."

The old world stands serenely behind the new, as one mountain yonder
towers behind another, more dim and distant. Rome imposes her story still
upon this late generation. The very children in the school we had that
morning passed, had gone through her wars, and recited her alarms, ere
they had heard of the wars of neighboring Lancaster. The roving eye still
rests inevitably on her hills, and she still holds up the skirts of the
sky on that side, and makes the past remote.

The lay of the land hereabouts is well worthy the attention of the
traveller. The hill on which we were resting made part of an extensive
range, running from southwest to northeast, across the country, and
separating the waters of the Nashua from those of the Concord, whose banks
we had left in the morning; and by bearing in mind this fact, we could
easily determine whither each brook was bound that crossed our path.
Parallel to this, and fifteen miles further west, beyond the deep and
broad valley in which lie Groton, Shirley, Lancaster, and Boylston, runs
the Wachusett range, in the same general direction. The descent into the
valley on the Nashua side, is by far the most sudden; and a couple of
miles brought us to the southern branch of the Nashua, a shallow but rapid
stream, flowing between high and gravelly banks. But we soon learned that
there were no _gelidae valles_ into which we had descended, and missing
the coolness of the morning air, feared it had become the sun's turn to
try his power upon us.

  "The sultry sun had gained the middle sky,
   And not a tree, and not an herb was nigh."

and with melancholy pleasure we echoed the melodious plaint of our
fellow-traveller, Hassan, in the desert,--

  "Sad was the hour, and luckless was the day,
   When first from Schiraz' walls I bent my way."

The air lay lifeless between the hills, as in a seething caldron, with no
leaf stirring, and instead of the fresh odor of grass and clover, with
which we had before been regaled, the dry scent of every herb seemed
merely medicinal. Yielding, therefore, to the heat, we strolled into the
woods, and along the course of a rivulet, on whose banks we loitered,
observing at our leisure the products of these new fields. He who
traverses the woodland paths, at this season, will have occasion to
remember the small drooping bell-like flowers and slender red stem of the
dogs-bane, and the coarser stem and berry of the poke, which are both
common in remoter and wilder scenes; and if "the sun casts such a
reflecting heat from the sweet fern," as makes him faint, when he is
climbing the bare hills, as they complained who first penetrated into
these parts, the cool fragrance of the swamp pink restores him again, when
traversing the valleys between.

As we went on our way late in the afternoon, we refreshed ourselves by
bathing our feet in every rill that crossed the road, and anon, as we were
able to walk in the shadows of the hills, recovered our morning
elasticity. Passing through Sterling, we reached the banks of the
Stillwater, in the western part of the town, at evening, where is a small
village collected. We fancied that there was already a certain western
look about this place, a smell of pines and roar of water, recently
confined by dams, belying its name, which were exceedingly grateful. When
the first inroad has been made, a few acres levelled, and a few houses
erected, the forest looks wilder than ever. Left to herself, nature is
always more or less civilized, and delights in a certain refinement; but
where the axe has

encroached upon the edge of the forest, the dead and unsightly limbs of
the pine, which she had concealed with green banks of verdure, are exposed
to sight. This village had, as yet, no post-office, nor any settled name.
In the small villages which we entered, the villagers gazed after us, with
a complacent, almost compassionate look, as if we were just making our
_debut_ in the world at a late hour. "Nevertheless," did they seem to say,
"come and study us, and learn men and manners." So is each one's world but
a clearing in the forest, so much open and inclosed ground. The landlord
had not yet returned from the field with his men, and the cows had yet to
be milked. But we remembered the inscription on the wall of the Swedish
inn, "You will find at Trolhate excellent bread, meat, and wine, provided
you bring them with you," and were contented. But I must confess it did
somewhat disturb our pleasure, in this withdrawn spot, to have our own
village newspaper handed us by our host, as if the greatest charm the
country offered to the traveller was the facility of communication with
the town. Let it recline on its own everlasting hills, and not be looking
out from their summits for some petty Boston or New York in the horizon.

At intervals we heard the murmuring of water, and the slumberous breathing
of crickets throughout the night; and left the inn the next morning in the
gray twilight, after it had been hallowed by the night air, and when only
the innocent cows were stirring, with a kind of regret. It was only four
miles to the base of the mountain, and the scenery was already more
picturesque. Our road lay along the course of the Stillwater, which was
brawling at the bottom of a deep ravine, filled with pines and rocks,
tumbling fresh from the mountains, so soon, alas! to commence its career
of usefulness. At first, a cloud hung between us and the summit, but it
was soon blown away. As we gathered the raspberries, which grew abundantly
by the roadside, we fancied that that action was consistent with a lofty
prudence, as if the traveller who ascends into a mountainous region should
fortify himself by eating of such light ambrosial fruits as grow there;
and, drinking of the springs which gush out from the mountain sides, as he
gradually inhales the subtler and purer atmosphere of those elevated
places, thus propitiating the mountain gods, by a sacrifice of their own
fruits. The gross products of the plains and valleys are for such as dwell
therein; but it seemed to us that the juices of this berry had relation to
the thin air of the mountain-tops.

In due time we began to ascend the mountain, passing, first, through a
grand sugar maple wood, which bore the marks of the augur, then a denser
forest, which gradually became dwarfed, till there were no trees whatever.
We at length pitched our tent on the summit. It is but nineteen hundred
feet above the village of Princeton, and three thousand above the level of
the sea; but by this slight elevation it is infinitely removed from the
plain, and when we reached it, we felt a sense of remoteness, as if we had
travelled into distant regions, to Arabia Petrea, or the farthest east. A
robin upon a staff, was the highest object in sight. Swallows were flying
about us, and the chewink and cuckoo were heard near at hand. The summit
consists of a few acres, destitute of trees, covered with bare rocks,
interspersed with blueberry bushes, raspberries, gooseberries,
strawberries, moss, and a fine wiry grass. The common yellow lily, and
dwarf-cornel, grow abundantly in the crevices of the rocks. This clear
space, which is gently rounded, is bounded a few feet lower by a thick
shrubbery of oaks, with maples, aspens, beeches, cherries, and
occasionally a mountain-ash intermingled, among which we found the bright
blueberries of the Solomon's Seal, and the fruit of the pyrola. From the
foundation of a wooden observatory, which was formerly erected on the
highest point, forming a rude, hollow structure of stone, a dozen feet in
diameter, and five or six in height, we could see Monadnock, in simple
grandeur, in the northwest, rising nearly a thousand feet higher, still
the "far blue mountain," though with an altered profile. The first day the
weather was so hazy that it was in vain we endeavored to unravel the
obscurity. It was like looking into the sky again, and the patches of
forest here and there seemed to flit like clouds over a lower heaven. As
to voyagers of an aërial Polynesia, the earth seemed like a larger island
in the ether; on every side, even as low as we, the sky shutting down,
like an unfathomable deep, around it, a blue Pacific island, where who
knows what islanders inhabit? and as we sail near its shores we see the
waving of trees, and hear the lowing of kine.

We read Virgil and Wordsworth in our tent, with new pleasure there, while,
waiting for a clearer atmosphere, nor did the weather prevent our
appreciating the simple truth and beauty of Peter Bell:

"And he had lain beside his asses,
 On lofty Cheviot hills."

"And he had trudged through Yorkshire dales,
 Among the rocks and winding _scars_,
 Where deep and low the hamlets lie
 Beneath their little patch of sky,
 And little lot of stars."

Who knows but this hill may one day be a Helvellyn, or even a Parnassus,
and the Muses haunt here, and other Homers frequent the neighboring
plains,

Not unconcerned Wachusett rears his head
  Above the field, so late from nature won,
With patient brow reserved, as one who read
  New annals in the history of man.

The blue-berries which the mountain afforded, added to the milk we had
brought, made our frugal supper, while for entertainment the evensong of
the wood-thrush rung along the ridge. Our eyes rested on no painted
ceiling nor carpeted hall, but on skies of nature's painting, and hills
and forests of her embroidery. Before sunset, we rambled along the ridge
to the north, while a hawk soared still above us. It was a place where
gods might wander, so solemn and solitary, and removed from all contagion
with the plain. As the evening came on, the haze was 'condensed in vapor,
and the landscape became more distinctly visible, and numerous sheets of
water were brought to light.

Et jam summa procul villarum culmina fumant,
Majoresque cadunt altis de montibus umbrae.

And now the tops of the villas smoke afar off,
And the shadows fall longer from the high mountains.

As we stood on the stone tower while the sun was setting, we saw the
shades of night creep gradually over the valleys of the east, and the
inhabitants went into their houses, and shut their doors, while the moon
silently rose up, and took possession of that part. And then the same
scene was repeated on the west side, as far as the Connecticut and the
Green Mountains, and the sun's rays fell on us two alone, of all New
England men.

It was the night but one before the full of the moon, so bright that we
could see to read distinctly by moonlight, and in the evening strolled
over the summit without danger. There was, by chance, a fire blazing on
Monadnock that night, which lighted up the whole western horizon, and by
making us aware of a community of mountains, made our position seem less
solitary. But at length the wind drove us to the shelter of our tent, and
we closed its door for the night, and fell asleep.

It was thrilling to hear the wind roar over the rocks, at intervals when
we waked, for it had grown quite cold and windy. The night was in its
elements, simple even to majesty in that bleak place,--a bright moonlight
and a piercing wind. It was at no time darker than twilight within the
tent, and we could easily see the moon through its transparent roof as we
lay; for there was the moon still above us, with Jupiter and Saturn on
either hand, looking down on Wachusett, and it was a satisfaction to know
that they were our fellow-travellers still, as high and out of our reach
as our own destiny. Truly the stars were given for a consolation to man.
We should not know but our life were fated to be always grovelling, but it
is permitted to behold them, and surely they are deserving of a fair
destiny. We see laws which never fail, of whose failure we never
conceived; and their lamps burn all the night, too, as well as all day,--
so rich and lavish is that nature which can afford this superfluity of
light.

The morning twilight began as soon as the moon had set, and we arose and
kindled our fire, whose blaze might have been seen for thirty miles
around. As the daylight increased, it was remarkable how rapidly the wind
went down. There was no dew on the summit, but coldness supplied its
place. When the dawn had reached its prime, we enjoyed the view of a
distinct horizon line, and could fancy ourselves at sea, and the distant
hills the waves in the horizon, as seen from the deck of a vessel. The
cherry-birds flitted around us, the nuthatch and flicker were heard among
the bushes, the titmouse perched within a few feet, and the song of the
wood-thrush again rung along the ridge. At length we saw the sun rise up
out of the sea, and shine on Massachusetts; and from this moment the
atmosphere grew more and more transparent till the time of our departure,
and we began to realize the extent of the view, and how the earth, in some
degree, answered to the heavens in breadth, the white villages to the
constellations in the sky. There was little of the sublimity and grandeur
which belong to mountain scenery, but an immense landscape to ponder on a
summer's day. We could see how ample and roomy is nature. As far as the
eye could reach, there was little life in the landscape; the few birds
that flitted past did not crowd. The travellers on the remote highways,
which intersect the country on every side, had no fellow-travellers for
miles, before or behind. On every side, the eye ranged over successive
circles of towns, rising one above another, like the terraces of a
vineyard, till they were lost in the horizon. Wachusett is, in fact, the
observatory of the State. There lay Massachusetts, spread out before us in
its length and breadth, like a map. There was the level horizon, which
told of the sea on the east and south, the well-known hills of New
Hampshire on the north, and the misty summits of the Hoosac and Green
Mountains, first made visible to us the evening before, blue and
unsubstantial, like some bank of clouds which the morning wind would
dissipate, on the northwest and west. These last distant ranges, on which
the eye rests unwearied, commence with an abrupt boulder in the north,
beyond the Connecticut, and travel southward, with three or four peaks
dimly seen. But Monadnock, rearing its masculine front in the northwest,
is the grandest feature. As we beheld it, we knew that it was the height
of land between the two rivers, on this side the valley of the Merrimack,
or that of the Connecticut, fluctuating with their blue seas of
air,--these rival vales, already teeming with Yankee men along their
respective streams, born to what destiny who shall tell? Watatic, and the
neighboring hills in this State and in New Hampshire, are a continuation
of the same elevated range on which we were standing. But that New
Hampshire bluff,--that promontory of a State,--lowering day and night on
this our State of Massachusetts, will longest haunt our dreams.

We could, at length, realize the place mountains occupy on the land, and
how they come into the general scheme of the universe. When first we climb
their summits and observe their lesser irregularities, we do not give
credit to the comprehensive intelligence which shaped them; but when
afterward we behold their outlines in the horizon, we confess that the
hand which moulded their opposite slopes, making one to balance the other,
worked round a deep centre, and was privy to the plan of the universe. So
is the least part of nature in its bearings referred to all space. These
lesser mountain ranges, as well as the Alleghanies, run from northeast to
southwest, and parallel with these mountain streams are the more fluent
rivers, answering to the general direction of the coast, the bank of the
great ocean stream itself. Even the clouds, with their thin bars, fall
into the same direction by preference, and such even is the course of the
prevailing winds, and the migration of men and birds. A mountain-chain
determines many things for the statesman and philosopher. The improvements
of civilization rather creep along its sides than cross its summit. How
often is it a barrier to prejudice and fanaticism? In passing over these
heights of land, through their thin atmosphere, the follies of the plain
are refined and purified; and as many species of plants do not scale their
summits, so many species of folly no doubt do not cross the Alleghanies;
it is only the hardy mountain plant that creeps quite over the ridge, and
descends into the valley beyond.

We get a dim notion of the flight of birds, especially of such as fly high
in the air, by having ascended a mountain. We can now see what landmarks
mountains are to their migrations; how the Catskills and Highlands have
hardly sunk to them, when Wachusett and Monadnock open a passage to the
northeast; how they are guided, too, in their course by the rivers and
valleys; and who knows but by the stars, as well as the mountain ranges,
and not by the petty landmarks which we use. The bird whose eye takes in
the Green Mountains on the one side, and the ocean on the other, need not
be at a loss to find its way.

At noon we descended the mountain, and having returned to the abodes of
men, turned our faces to the east again; measuring our progress, from time
to time, by the more ethereal hues which the mountain assumed. Passing
swiftly through Stillwater and Sterling, as with a downward impetus, we
found ourselves almost at home again in the green meadows of Lancaster, so
like our own Concord, for both are watered by two streams which unite near
their centres, and have many other features in common. There is an
unexpected refinement about this scenery; level prairies of great extent,
interspersed with elms and hop-fields and groves of trees, give it almost
a classic appearance. This, it will be remembered, was the scene of Mrs.
Kowlandson's capture, and of other events in the Indian wars, but from
this July afternoon, and under that mild exterior, those times seemed as
remote as the irruption of the Goths. They were the dark age of New
England. On beholding a picture of a New England village as it then
appeared, with a fair open prospect, and a light on trees and river, as if
it were broad noon, we find we had not thought the sun shone in those
days, or that men lived in broad daylight then. We do not imagine the sun
shining on hill and valley during Philip's war, nor on the war-path of
Paugus, or Standish, or Church, or Lovell, with serene summer weather, but
a dim twilight or night did those events transpire in. They must have
fought in the shade of their own dusky deeds.

At length, as we plodded along the dusty roads, our thoughts became as
dusty as they; all thought indeed stopped, thinking broke down, or
proceeded only passively in a sort of rhythmical cadence of the confused
material of thought, and we found ourselves mechanically repeating some
familiar measure which timed with our tread; some verse of the Robin Hood
ballads, for instance, which one can recommend to travel by.

"Swearers are swift, sayd lyttle John,
As the wind blows over the hill;
For if it be never so loud this night,
To-morrow it may be still."

And so it went up hill and down till a stone interrupted the line, when a
new verse was chosen.

"His shoote it was but loosely shot,
  Yet flewe not the arrowe in vaine,
For it met one of the sheriffe's men,
  And William-a-Trent was slaine."

There is, however, this consolation to the most way-worn traveller, upon
the dustiest road, that the path his feet describe is so perfectly
symbolical of human life,--now climbing the hills, now descending into the
vales. From the summits he beholds the heavens and the horizon, from the
vales he looks up to the heights again. He is treading his old lessons
still, and though he may be very weary and travel-worn, it is yet sincere
experience.

Leaving the Nashua, we changed our route a little, and arrived at
Stillriver Village, in the western part of Harvard, just as the sun was
setting. From this place, which lies to the northward, upon the western
slope of the same range of hills on which we had spent the noon before, in
the adjacent town, the prospect is beautiful, and the grandeur of the
mountain outlines unsurpassed. There was such a repose and quiet here at
this hour, as if the very hill-sides were enjoying the scene, and we
passed slowly along, looking back over the country we had traversed, and
listening to the evening song of the robin, we could not help contrasting
the equanimity of nature with the bustle and impatience of man. His words
and actions presume always a crisis near at hand, but she is forever
silent and unpretending.

And now that we have returned to the desultory life of the plain, let us
endeavor to import a little of that mountain grandeur into it. We will
remember within what walls we lie, and understand that this level life too
has its summit, and why from the mountain-top the deepest valleys have a
tinge of blue; that there is elevation in every hour, as no part of the
earth is so low that the heavens may not be seen from, and we have only to
stand on the summit of our hour to command an uninterrupted horizon.

We rested that night at Harvard, and the next morning, while one bent his
steps to the nearer village of Groton, the other took his separate and
solitary way to the peaceful meadows of Concord; but let him not forget to
record the brave hospitality of a farmer and his wife, who generously
entertained him at their board, though the poor wayfarer could only
congratulate the one on the continuance of hayweather, and silently accept
the kindness of the other. Refreshed by this instance of generosity, no
less than by the substantial viands set before him, he pushed forward with
new vigor, and reached the banks of the Concord before the sun had climbed
many degrees into the heavens.



THE LANDLORD.

[1843.]


Under the one word, house, are included the school-house, the alms-house,
the jail, the tavern, the dwelling-house; and the meanest shed or cave in
which men live contains the elements of all these. But nowhere on the
earth stands the entire and perfect house. The Parthenon, St. Peter's, the
Gothic minster, the palace, the hovel, are but imperfect executions of an
imperfect idea. Who would dwell in them? Perhaps to the eye of the gods,
the cottage is more holy than the Parthenon, for they look down with no
especial favor upon the shrines formally dedicated to them, and that
should be the most sacred roof which shelters most of humanity. Surely,
then, the gods who are most interested in the human race preside over the
Tavern, where especially men congregate. Methinks I see the thousand
shrines erected to Hospitality shining afar in all countries, as well
Mahometan and Jewish, as Christian, khans, and caravansaries,
and inns, whither all pilgrims without distinction resort.

Likewise we look in vain, east or west over the earth, to find the perfect
man; but each represents only some particular excellence. The Landlord is
a man of more open and general sympathies, who possesses a spirit of
hospitality which is its own reward, and feeds and shelters men from pure
love of the creatures. To be sure, this profession is as often filled by
imperfect characters, and such as have sought it from unworthy motives, as
any other, but so much the more should we prize the true and honest
Landlord when we meet with him.

Who has not imagined to himself a country inn, where the traveller shall
really feel _in_, and at home, and at his public-house, who was before at
his private house; whose host is indeed a _host_, and a _lord_ of the
_land_, a self-appointed brother of his race; called to his place, beside,
by all the winds of heaven and his good genius, as truly as the preacher
is called to preach; a man of such universal sympathies, and so broad and
genial a human nature, that he would fain sacrifice the tender but narrow
ties of private friendship, to a broad, sunshiny, fair-weather-and-foul
friendship for his race; who loves men, not as a philosopher, with
philanthropy, nor as an overseer of the poor, with charity, but by a
necessity of his nature, as he loves dogs and horses; and standing at his
open door from morning till night, would fain see more and more of them
come along the highway, and is never satiated. To him the sun and moon are
but travellers, the one by day and the other by night; and they too
patronize his house. To his imagination all things travel save his
sign-post and himself; and though you may be his neighbor for years, he
will show you only the civilities of the road. But on the other hand,
while nations and individuals are alike selfish and exclusive, he loves
all men equally; and if he treats his nearest neighbor as a stranger,
since he has invited all nations to share his hospitality, the farthest
travelled is in some measure kindred to him who takes him into the bosom
of his family.

He keeps a house of entertainment at the sign of the Black Horse or the
Spread Eagle, and is known far and wide, and his fame travels with
increasing radius every year. All the neighborhood is in his interest, and
if the traveller ask how far to a tavern, he receives some such answer as
this: "Well, sir, there's a house about three miles from here, where they
haven't taken down their sign yet; but it's only ten miles to Slocum's,
and that's a capital house, both for man and beast." At three miles he
passes a cheerless barrack, standing desolate behind its sign-post,
neither public nor private, and has glimpses of a discontented couple
who have mistaken their calling. At ten miles see where the Tavern
stands,--really an _entertaining_ prospect,--so public and inviting that
only the rain and snow do not enter. It is no gay pavilion, made of bright
stuffs, and furnished with nuts and gingerbread, but as plain and sincere
as a caravansary; located in no Tarrytown, where you receive only the
civilities of commerce, but far in the fields it exercises a primitive
hospitality, amid the fresh scent of new hay and raspberries, if it be
summer time, and the tinkling of cow-bells from invisible pastures; for it
is a land flowing with milk and honey, and the newest milk courses in a
broad, deep stream across the premises.

In these retired places the tavern is first of all a house--elsewhere,
last of all, or never,--and warms and shelters its inhabitants. It is as
simple and sincere in its essentials as the caves in which the first men
dwelt, but it is also as open and public. The traveller steps across the
threshold, and lo! he too is master, for he only can be called proprietor
of the house here who behaves with most propriety in it. The Landlord
stands clear back in nature, to my imagination, with his axe and spade
felling trees and raising potatoes with the vigor of a pioneer; with
Promethean energy making nature yield her increase to supply the wants of
so many; and he is not so exhausted, nor of so short a stride, but that he
comes forward even to the highway to this wide hospitality and publicity.
Surely, he has solved some of the problems of life. He comes in at his
backdoor, holding a log fresh cut for the hearth upon his shoulder with
one hand, while he greets the newly arrived traveller with the other.

Here at length we have free range, as not in palaces, nor cottages, nor
temples, and intrude nowhere. All the secrets of housekeeping are
exhibited to the eyes of men, above and below, before and behind. This is
the necessary way to live, men have confessed, in these days, and shall he
skulk and hide? And why should we have any serious disgust at kitchens?
Perhaps they are the holiest recess of the house. There is the hearth,
after all,--and the settle, and the fagots, and the kettle, and the
crickets. We have pleasant reminiscences of these. They are the heart, the
left ventricle, the very vital part of the house. Here the real and
sincere life which we meet in the streets was actually fed and sheltered.
Here burns the taper that cheers the lonely traveller by night, and from
this hearth ascend the smokes that populate the valley to his eyes by day.
On the whole, a man may not be so little ashamed of any other part of his
house, for here is his sincerity and earnest, at least. It may not be here
that the besoms are plied most,--it is not here that they need to be, for
dust will not settle on the kitchen floor more than in nature.

Hence it will not do for the Landlord to possess too fine a nature. He
must have health above the common accidents of life, subject to no modern
fashionable diseases; but no taste, rather a vast relish or appetite.
His sentiments on all subjects will be delivered as freely as the wind
blows; there is nothing private or individual in them, though still
original, but they are public, and of the hue of the heavens over his
house,--a certain out-of-door obviousness and transparency not to be
disputed. What he does, his manners are not to be complained of, though
abstractly offensive, for it is what man does, and in him the race is
exhibited. When he eats, he is liver and bowels, and the whole digestive
apparatus to the company, and so all admit the thing is done. He must have
no idiosyncrasies, no particular bents or tendencies to this or that, but
a general, uniform, and healthy development, such as his portly person
indicates, offering himself equally on all sides to men. He is not one of
your peaked and inhospitable men of genius, with particular tastes, but,
as we said before, has one uniform relish, and taste which never aspires
higher than a tavern-sign, or the cut of a weather-cock. The man of
genius, like a dog with a bone, or the slave who has swallowed a diamond,
or a patient with the gravel, sits afar and retired, off the road, hangs
out no sign of refreshment for man and beast, but says, by all possible
hints and signs, I wish to be alone--good-by--farewell. But the landlord
can afford to live without privacy. He entertains no private thought, he
cherishes no solitary hour, no Sabbath day, but thinks,--enough to assert
the dignity of reason,--and talks, and reads the newspaper. What he does
not tell to one traveller, he tells to another. He never wants to be
alone, but sleeps, wakes, eats, drinks, sociably, still remembering his
race. He walks abroad through the thoughts of men, and the Iliad and
Shakspeare are tame to him, who hears the rude but homely incidents of
the road from every traveller. The mail might drive through his brain in
the midst of his most lonely soliloquy, without disturbing his equanimity,
provided it brought plenty of news and passengers. There can be no
_pro_-fanity where there is no fane behind, and the whole world may see
quite round him. Perchance his lines have fallen to him in dustier places,
and he has heroically sat down where two roads meet, or at the Four
Corners, or the Five Points, and his life is sublimely trivial for the
good of men. The dust of travel blows ever in his eyes, and they preserve
their clear, complacent look. The hourlies and half-hourlies, the dailies
and weeklies, whirl on well-worn tracks, round and round his house, as if
it were the goal in the stadium, and still he sits within in unruffled
serenity, with no show of retreat. His neighbor dwells timidly behind a
screen of poplars and willows, and a fence with sheaves of spears at
regular intervals, or defended against the tender palms of visitors by
sharp spikes,--but the traveller's wheels rattle over the door-step of the
tavern, and he cracks his whip in the entry. He is truly glad to see you,
and sincere as the bull's-eye over his door. The traveller seeks to find,
wherever he goes, some one who will stand in this broad and catholic
relation to him, who will be an inhabitant of the land to him a stranger,
and represent its human nature, as the rock stands for its inanimate
nature; and this is he. As his crib furnishes provender for the
traveller's horse, and his larder provisions for his appetite, so his
conversation furnishes the necessary aliment to his spirits. He knows very
well what a man wants, for he is a man himself, and as it were the
farthest travelled, though he has never stirred from his door. He
understands his needs and destiny. He would be well fed and lodged, there
can be no doubt, and have the transient sympathy of a cheerful companion,
and of a heart which always prophesies fair weather. And after all the
greatest men, even, want much more the sympathy which every honest fellow
can give, than that which the great only can impart. If he is not the most
upright, let us allow him this praise, that he is the most downright of
men. He has a hand to shake and to be shaken, and takes a sturdy and
unquestionable interest in you, as if he had assumed the care of you, but
if you will break your neck, he will even give you the best advice as to
the method.

The great poets have not been ungrateful to their landlords. Mine host of
the Tabard Inn, in the Prologue to the Canterbury Tales, was an honor to
his profession:--

"A semely man our Hoste was, with alle,
For to han been an marshal in an halle.
A large man he was, with eyen stepe;
A fairer burgeis is ther nou in Chepe:
Bold of his speche, and wise, and well ytaught,
And of manhood him lacked righte naught.
Eke thereto, was he right a mery man,
And after souper plaien he began,
And spake of mirthe amonges other thinges,
Whan that we hadden made our reckoninges."

He is the true house-band, and centre of the company--of greater
fellowship and practical social talent than any. He it is that proposes
that each shall tell a tale to while away the time to Canterbury, and
leads them himself, and concludes with his own tale:--

"Now, by my fader's soule that is ded,
But ye be mery, smiteth of my hed:
Hold up your hondes withouten more speche."

If we do not look up to the Landlord, we look round for him on all
emergencies, for he is a man of infinite experience, who unites hands with
wit. He is a more public character than a statesman,--a publican, and not
consequently a sinner; and surely, he, if any, should be exempted from
taxation and military duty.

Talking with our host is next best and instructive to talking with one's
self. It is a more conscious soliloquy; as it were, to speak generally,
and try what we would say provided we had an audience. He has indulgent
and open ears, and does not require petty and particular statements.
"Heigho!" exclaims the traveller. Them's my sentiments, thinks mine host,
and stands ready for what may come next, expressing the purest sympathy by
his demeanor. "Hot as blazes!" says the other,--"Hard weather, sir,--not
much stirring nowadays," says he. He is wiser than to contradict his guest
in any case; he lets him go on, he lets him travel.

The latest sitter leaves him standing far in the night, prepared to live
right on, while suns rise and set, and his "good night" has as brisk a
sound as his "good morning;" and the earliest riser finds him tasting his
liquors in the bar ere flies begin to buzz, with a countenance fresh as
the morning star over the sanded floor,--and not as one who had watched
all night for travellers. And yet, if beds be the subject of conversation,
it will appear that no man has been a sounder sleeper in his time.

Finally, as for his moral character, we do not hesitate to say, that he
has no grain of vice or meanness in him, but represents just that degree
of virtue which all men relish without being obliged to respect. He is a
good man, as his bitters are good,--an unquestionable goodness. Not what
is called a good man,--good to be considered, as a work of art in
galleries and museums,--but a good fellow, that is, good to be associated
with. Who ever thought of the religion of an innkeeper--whether he was
joined to the Church, partook of the sacrament, said his prayers, feared
God, or the like? No doubt he has had his experiences, has felt a change,
and is a firm believer in the perseverance of the saints. In this last, we
suspect, does the peculiarity of his religion consist. But he keeps an
inn, and not a conscience. How many fragrant charities and sincere social
virtues are implied in this, daily offering of himself to the public. He
cherishes good will to all, and gives the wayfarer as good and honest
advice to direct him on his road as the priest.

To conclude, the tavern will compare favorably with the church. The church
is the place where prayers and sermons are delivered, but the tavern is
where they are to take effect, and if the former are good, the latter
cannot be bad.



A WINTER WALK.

[1843.]


The wind has gently murmured through the blinds, or puffed with feathery
softness against the windows, and occasionally sighed like a summer zephyr
lifting the leaves along, the livelong night. The meadow-mouse has slept
in his snug gallery in the sod, the owl has sat in a hollow tree in the
depth of the swamp, the rabbit, the squirrel, and the fox have all been
housed. The watch-dog has lain quiet on the hearth, and the cattle have
stood silent in their stalls. The earth itself has slept, as it were its
first, not its last sleep, save when some street-sign or wood-house door
has faintly creaked upon its hinge, cheering forlorn nature at her
midnight work,--the only sound awake twixt Venus and Mars,--advertising us
of a remote inward warmth, a divine cheer and fellowship, where gods are
met together, but where it is very bleak for men to stand. But while the
earth has slumbered, all the air has been alive with feathery flakes
descending, as if some northern Ceres reigned, showering her silvery grain
over all the fields.

We sleep, and at length awake to the still reality of a winter morning.
The snow lies warm as cotton or down upon the window-sill; the broadened
sash and frosted panes admit a dim and private light, which enhances the
snug cheer within. The stillness of the morning is impressive. The floor
creaks under our feet as we move toward the window to look abroad through
some clear space over the fields. We see the roofs stand under their snow
burden. From the eaves and fences hang stalactites of snow, and in the
yard stand stalagmites covering some concealed core. The trees and shrubs
rear white arms to the sky on every side; and where were walls and fences,
we see fantastic forms stretching in frolic gambols across the dusky
landscape, as if nature had strewn her fresh designs over the fields by
night as models for man's art.

Silently we unlatch the door, letting the drift fall in, and step abroad
to face the cutting air. Already the stars have lost some of their
sparkle, and a dull, leaden mist skirts the horizon. A lurid brazen light
in the east proclaims the approach of day, while the western landscape is
dim and spectral still, and clothed in a sombre Tartarian light, like the
shadowy realms. They are Infernal sounds only that you hear,--the crowing
of cocks, the barking of dogs, the chopping of wood, the lowing of kine,
all seem to come from Pluto's barn-yard and beyond the Styx;--not for any
melancholy they suggest, but their twilight bustle is too solemn and
mysterious for earth. The recent tracks of the fox or otter, in the yard,
remind us that each hour of the night is crowded with events, and the
primeval nature is still working and making tracks in the snow. Opening
the gate, we tread briskly along the lone country road, crunching the dry
and crisped snow under our feet, or aroused by the sharp clear creak of
the wood-sled, just starting for the distant market, from the early
farmer's door, where it has lain the summer long, dreaming amid the chips
and stubble; while far through the drifts and powdered windows we see the
farmer's early candle, like a paled star, emitting a lonely beam, as if
some severe virtue were at its matins there. And one by one the smokes
begin to ascend from the chimneys amidst the trees and snows.

The sluggish smoke curls up from some deep dell,
The stiffened air exploring in the dawn,
And making slow acquaintance with the day;
Delaying now upon its heavenward course,
In wreathed loiterings dallying with itself,
With as uncertain purpose and slow deed,
As its half-wakened master by the hearth,
Whose mind still slumbering and sluggish thoughts
Have not yet swept into the onward current
Of the new day;--and now it streams afar,
The while the chopper goes with step direct,
And mind intent to swing the early axe.

First in the dusky dawn he sends abroad
His early scout, his emissary, smoke,
The earliest, latest pilgrim from the roof,
To feel the frosty air, inform the day;
And while he crouches still beside the hearth,
Nor musters courage to unbar the door,
It has gone down the glen with the light wind,
And o'er the plain unfurled its venturous wreath,
Draped the tree-tops, loitered upon the hill,
And warmed the pinions of the early bird;
And now, perchance, high in the crispy air,
Has caught sight of the day o'er the earth's edge,
And greets its master's eye at his low door,
As some refulgent cloud in the upper sky.

We hear the sound of wood-chopping at the farmers' doors, far over the
frozen earth, the baying of the house-dog, and the distant clarion of the
cock. Though the thin and frosty air conveys only the finer particles of
sound to our ears, with short and sweet vibrations, as the waves subside
soonest on the purest and lightest liquids, in which gross substances sink
to the bottom. They come clear and bell-like, and from a greater distance
in the horizon, as if there were fewer impediments than in summer to make
them faint and ragged. The ground is sonorous, like seasoned wood, and
even the ordinary rural sounds are melodious, and the jingling of the ice
on the trees is sweet and liquid. There is the least possible moisture in
the atmosphere, all being dried up, or congealed, and it is of such
extreme tenuity and elasticity, that it becomes a source of delight.
The withdrawn and tense sky seems groined like the aisles of a cathedral,
and the polished air sparkles as if there were crystals of ice floating in
it. As they who have resided in Greenland tell us, that, when it freezes,
"the sea smokes like burning turf-land, and a fog or mist arises, called
frost-smoke," which "cutting smoke frequently raises blisters on the face
and hands, and is very pernicious to the health." But this pure stinging
cold is an elixir to the lungs, and not so much a frozen mist, as a
crystallized midsummer haze, refined and purified by cold.

The sun at length rises through the distant woods, as if with the faint
clashing swinging sound of cymbals, melting the air with his beams, and
with such rapid steps the morning travels, that already his rays are
gilding the distant western mountains. Meanwhile we step hastily along
through the powdery snow, warmed by an inward heat, enjoying an Indian
summer still, in the increased glow of thought and feeling. Probably if
our lives were more conformed to nature, we should not need to defend
ourselves against her heats and colds, but find her our constant nurse and
friend, as do plants and quadrupeds. If our bodies were fed with pure and
simple elements, and not with a stimulating and heating diet, they would
afford no more pasture for cold than a leafless twig, but thrive like the
trees, which find even winter genial to their expansion.

The wonderful purity of nature at this season is a most pleasing fact.
Every decayed stump and moss-grown stone and rail, and the dead leaves of
autumn, are concealed by a clean napkin of snow. In the bare fields and
tinkling woods, see what virtue survives. In the coldest and bleakest
places, the warmest charities still maintain a foothold. A cold and
searching wind drives away all contagion, and nothing can withstand it but
what has a virtue in it; and accordingly, whatever we meet with in cold
and bleak places, as the tops of mountains, we respect for a sort of
sturdy innocence, a Puritan toughness. All things beside seem to be called
in for shelter, and what stays out must be part of the original frame of
the universe, and of such valor as God himself. It is invigorating to
breathe the cleansed air. Its greater fineness and purity are visible to
the eye, and we would fain stay out long and late, that the-gales may sigh
through us, too, as through the leafless trees, and fit us for the
winter:--as if we hoped so to borrow some pure and steadfast virtue, which
will stead us in all seasons.

There is a slumbering subterranean fire in nature which never goes out,
and which no cold can chill. It finally melts the great snow, and in
January or July is only buried under a thicker or thinner covering. In the
coldest day it flows somewhere, and the snow melts around every tree. This
field of winter rye, which sprouted late in the fall, and now speedily
dissolves the snow, is where the fire is very thinly covered. We feel
warmed by it. In the winter, warmth stands for all virtue, and we resort
in thought to a trickling rill, with its bare stones shining in the sun,
and to warm springs in the woods, with as much eagerness as rabbits and
robins. The steam which rises from swamps and pools, is as dear and
domestic as that of our own kettle. What fire could ever equal the
sunshine of a winter's day, when the meadow mice come out by the
wallsides, and the chicadee lisps in the defiles of the wood? The warmth
comes directly from the sun, and is not radiated from the earth, as in
summer; and when we feel his beams on our backs as we are treading some
snowy dell, we are grateful as for a special kindness, and bless the sun
which has followed us into that by-place.

This subterranean fire has its altar in each man's breast, for in the
coldest day, and on the bleakest hill, the traveller cherishes a warmer
fire within the folds of his cloak than is kindled on any hearth. A
healthy man, indeed, is the complement of the seasons, and in winter,
summer is in his heart. There is the south. Thither have all birds and
insects migrated, and around the warm springs in his breast are gathered
the robin and the lark.

At length, having reached the edge of the woods, and shut out the gadding
town, we enter within their covert as we go under the roof of a cottage,
and cross its threshold, all ceiled and banked up with snow. They are glad
and warm still, and as genial and cheery in winter as in summer. As we
stand in the midst of the pines, in the nickering and checkered light
which straggles but little way into their maze, we wonder if the towns
have ever heard their simple story. It seems to us that no traveller has
ever explored them, and notwithstanding the wonders which science is
elsewhere revealing every day, who would not like to hear their annals?
Our humble villages in the plain are their contribution. We borrow from
the forest the boards which shelter, and the sticks which warm us. How
important is their evergreen to the winter, that portion of the summer
which does not fade, the permanent year, the unwithered grass. Thus
simply, and with little expense of altitude, is the surface of the earth
diversified. What would human life be without forests, those natural
cities? From the tops of mountains they appear like smooth shaven lawns,
yet whither shall we walk but in this taller grass?

In this glade covered with bushes of a year's growth, see how the silvery
dust lies on every seared leaf and twig, deposited in such infinite and
luxurious forms as by their very variety atone for the absence of color.
Observe the tiny tracks of mice around every stem, and the triangular
tracks of the rabbit. A pure elastic heaven hangs over all, as if the
impurities of the summer sky, refined and shrunk by the chaste winter's
cold, had been winnowed from the heavens upon the earth.

Nature confounds her summer distinctions at this season. The heavens seem
to be nearer the earth. The elements are less reserved and distinct. Water
turns to ice, rain to snow. The day is but a Scandinavian night. The
winter is an arctic summer.

How much more living is the life that is in nature, the furred life which
still survives the stinging nights, and, from amidst fields and woods
covered with frost and snow, sees the sun rise.

      "The foodless wilds
  Pour forth their brown inhabitants.".

The gray squirrel and rabbit are brisk and playful in the remote glens,
even on the morning of the cold Friday. Here is our Lapland and Labrador,
and for our Esquimaux and Knistenaux, Dog-ribbed Indians, Novazemblaites,
and Spitzbergeners, are there not the ice-cutter and wood-chopper, the
fox, musk-rat, and mink?

Still, in the midst of the arctic day, we may trace the summer to its
retreats, and sympathize with some contemporary life. Stretched over the
brooks, in the midst of the frost-bound meadows, we may observe the
submarine cottages of the caddice-worms, the larvae of the Plicipennes.
Their small cylindrical cases built around themselves, composed of flags,
sticks, grass, and withered leaves, shells, and pebbles, in form and color
like the wrecks which strew the bottom,--now drifting along over the
pebbly bottom, now whirling in tiny eddies and dashing down steep falls,
or sweeping rapidly along with the current, or else swaying to and fro at
the end of some grass-blade or root. Anon they will leave their sunken
habitations, and, crawling up the stems of plants, or to the surface, like
gnats, as perfect insects henceforth, flutter over the surface of the
water, or sacrifice their short lives in the flame of our candles at
evening. Down yonder little glen the shrubs are drooping under their
burden, and the red alder-berries contrast with the white ground. Here are
the marks of a myriad feet which have already been abroad. The sun rises
as proudly over such a glen, as over the valley of the Seine or the Tiber,
and it seems the residence of a pure and self-subsistent valor, such as
they never witnessed; which never knew defeat nor fear. Here reign the
simplicity and purity of a primitive age, and a health and hope far remote
from towns and cities. Standing quite alone, far in the forest, while the
wind is shaking down snow from the trees, and leaving the only human
tracks behind us, we find our reflections of a richer variety than the
life of cities. The chicadee and nuthatch are more inspiring society than
statesmen and philosophers, and we shall return to these last, as to more
vulgar companions. In this lonely glen, with its brook draining the
slopes, its creased ice and crystals of all hues, where the spruces and
hemlocks stand up on either side, and the rush and sere wild oats in the
rivulet itself, our lives are more serene and worthy to contemplate.

As the day advances, the heat of the sun is reflected by the hill-sides,
and we hear a faint but sweet music, where flows the rill released from
its fetters, and the icicles are melting on the trees; and the nuthatch
and partridge are heard and seen. The south wind melts the snow at noon,
and the bare ground appears with its withered grass and leaves, and we are
invigorated by the perfume which exhales from it, as by the scent of
strong meats.

Let us go into this deserted woodman's hut, and see how he has passed the
long winter nights and the short and stormy days. For here man has lived
under this south hill-side, and it seems a civilized and public spot. We
have such associations as when the traveller stands by the ruins of
Palmyra or Hecatompolis. Singing birds and flowers perchance have begun to
appear here, for flowers as well as weeds follow in the footsteps of man.
These hemlocks whispered over his head, these hickory logs were his fuel,
and these pitch-pine roots kindled his fire; yonder fuming rill in the
hollow, whose thin and airy vapor still ascends as busily as ever, though
he is far off now, was his well. These hemlock boughs, and the straw upon
this raised platform, were his bed, and this broken dish held his drink.
But he has not been here this season, for the phoebes built their nest
upon this shelf last summer. I find some embers left, as if he had but
just gone out, where he baked his pot of beans; and while at evening he
smoked his pipe, whose stemless bowl lies in the ashes, chatted with his
only companion, if perchance he had any, about the depth of the snow on
the morrow, already falling fast and thick without, or disputed whether
the last sound was the screech of an owl, or the creak of a bough, or
imagination only; and through this broad chimney throat, in the late
winter evening, ere he stretched himself upon the straw, he looked up to
learn the progress of the storm, and, seeing the bright stars of
Cassiopeia's chair shining brightly down upon him, fell contentedly
asleep. See how many traces from which we may learn the chopper's history.
From this stump we may guess the sharpness of his axe, and, from the slope
of the stroke, on which side he stood, and whether he cut down the tree
without going round it or changing hands; and, from the flexure of the
splinters, we may know which way it fell. This one chip contains inscribed
on it the whole history of the wood-chopper and of the world. On this
scrap of paper, which held his sugar or salt, perchance, or was the
wadding of his gun, sitting on a log in the forest, with what interest we
read the tattle of cities, of those larger huts, empty and to let, like
this, in High Streets and Broadways. The eaves are dripping on the south
side of this simple roof, while the titmouse lisps in the pine, and the
genial warmth of the sun around the door is somewhat kind and human.

After two seasons, this rude dwelling does not deform the scene. Already
the birds resort to it, to build their nests, and you may track to its
door the feet of many quadrupeds. Thus, for a long time, nature overlooks
the encroachment and profanity of-man. The wood still cheerfully and
unsuspiciously echoes the strokes of the axe that fells it, and while they
are few and seldom, they enhance its wildness, and all the elements strive
to naturalize the sound.

Now our path begins to ascend gradually to the top of this high hill,
from whose precipitous south side we can look over the broad country, of
forest and field and river, to the distant snowy mountains. See yonder
thin column of smoke curling up through the woods from some invisible
farm-house; the standard raised over some rural homestead. There must be
a warmer and more genial spot there below, as where we detect the vapor
from a spring forming a cloud above the trees. What fine relations are
established between the traveller who discovers this airy column from some
eminence in the forest, and him who sits below. Up goes the smoke as
silently and naturally as the vapor exhales from the leaves, and as busy
disposing itself in wreathes as the housewife on the hearth below. It is a
hieroglyphic of man's life, and suggests more intimate and important
things than the boiling of a pot. Where its fine column rises above the
forest, like an ensign, some human life has planted itself,--and such is
the beginning of Rome, the establishment of the arts, and the foundation
of empires, whether on the prairies of America, or the steppes of Asia.

And now we descend again to the brink of this woodland lake, which lies in
a hollow of the hills, as if it were their expressed juice, and that of
the leaves, which are annually steeped in it. Without outlet or inlet to
the eye, it has still its history, in the lapse of its waves, in the
rounded pebbles on its shore, and in the pines which grow down to its
brink. It has not been idle, though sedentary, but, like Abu Musa, teaches
that "sitting still at home is the heavenly way; the going out is the way
of the world." Yet in its evaporation it travels as far as any. In summer
it is the earth's liquid eye; a mirror in the breast of nature. The sins
of the wood are washed out in it. See how the woods form an amphitheatre
about it, and it is an arena for all the genialness of nature. All trees
direct the traveller to its brink, all paths seek it out, birds fly to it,
quadrupeds flee to it, and the very ground inclines toward it. It is
nature's saloon, where she has sat down to her toilet. Consider her silent
economy and tidiness; how the sun comes with his evaporation to sweep the
dust from its surface each morning, and a fresh surface is constantly
welling up; and annually, after whatever impurities have accumulated
herein, its liquid transparency appears again in the spring. In summer a
hushed music seems to sweep across its surface. But now a plain sheet of
snow conceals it from our eyes, except where the wind has swept the ice
bare, and the sere leaves are gliding from side to side, tacking and
veering on their tiny voyages. Here is one just keeled up against a pebble
on shove, a dry beech-leaf, rocking still, as if it would start again. A
skilful engineer, methinks, might project its course since it fell from
the parent stem. Here are all the elements for such a calculation. Its
present position, the direction of the wind, the level of the pond, and
how much more is given. In its scarred edges and veins is its log rolled
up.

We fancy ourselves in the interior of a larger house. The surface of the
pond is our deal table or sanded floor, and the woods rise abruptly from
its edge, like the walls of a cottage. The lines set to catch pickerel
through the ice look like a larger culinary preparation, and the men stand
about on the white ground like pieces of forest furniture. The actions of
these men, at the distance of half a mile over the ice and snow, impress
us as when we read the exploits of Alexander in history. They seem not
unworthy of the scenery, and as momentous as the conquest of kingdoms.

Again we have wandered through the arches of the wood, until from its
skirts we hear the distant booming of ice from yonder bay of the river, as
if it were moved by some other and subtler tide than oceans know. To me it
has a strange sound of home, thrilling as the voice of one's distant and
noble kindred. A mild summer sun shines over forest and lake, and though
there is but one green leaf for many rods, yet nature enjoys a serene
health. Every sound is fraught with the same mysterious assurance of
health, as well now the creaking of the boughs in January, as the soft
sough of the wind in July.

When Winter fringes every bough
  With his fantastic wreath,
And puts the seal of silence now
  Upon the leaves beneath;

When every stream in its pent-house
  Goes gurgling on its way,
And in his gallery the mouse
  Nibbleth the meadow hay;

Methinks the summer still is nigh,
  And lurketh underneath,
As that same meadow-mouse doth lie
  Snug in that last year's heath.

And if perchance the chicadee
  Lisp a faint note anon,
The snow is summer's canopy,
  Which she herself put on.

Fair blossoms deck the cheerful trees,
  And dazzling fruits depend,
The north wind sighs a summer breeze,
  The nipping frosts to fend,

Bringing glad tidings unto me,
  The while I stand all ear,
Of a serene eternity,
  Which need not winter fear.

Out on the silent pond straightway
  The restless ice doth crack,
And pond sprites merry gambols play
  Amid the deafening rack.

Eager I hasten to the vale,
  As if I heard brave news,
How nature held high festival,
  Which it were hard to lose.

I gambol with my neighbor ice,
  And sympathizing quake,
As each new crack darts in a trice
  Across the gladsome lake.

One with the cricket in the ground,
  And fagot on the hearth,
Resounds the rare domestic sound
  Along the forest path.

Before night we will take a journey on skates along the course of this
meandering river, as full of novelty to one who sits by the cottage fire
all the winter's day, as if it were over the polar ice, with Captain Parry
or Franklin; following the winding of the stream, now flowing amid hills,
now spreading out into fair meadows, and forming a myriad coves and bays
where the pine and hemlock overarch. The river flows in the rear of the
towns, and we see all things from a new and wilder side. The fields and
gardens come down to it with a frankness, and freedom from pretension,
which they do not wear on the highway. It is the outside and edge of the
earth. Our eyes are not offended by violent contrasts. The last rail of
the farmer's fence is some swaying willow bough, which still preserves its
freshness, and here at length all fences stop, and we no longer cross any
road. We may go far up within the country now by the most retired and
level road, never climbing a hill, but by broad levels ascending to the
upland meadows. It is a beautiful illustration of the law of obedience,
the flow of a river; the path for a sick man, a highway down which an
acorn cup may float secure with its freight. Its slight occasional falls,
whose precipices would not diversify the landscape, are celebrated by mist
and spray, and attract the traveller from far and near. From the remote
interior, its current conducts him by broad and easy steps, or by one
gentle inclined plane, to the sea. Thus by an early and constant yielding
to the inequalities of the ground, it secures itself the easiest passage.

No domain of nature is quite closed to man at all times, and now we draw
near to the empire of the fishes. Our feet glide swiftly over unfathomed
depths, where in summer our line tempted the pout and perch, and where the
stately pickerel lurked in the long corridors formed by the bulrushes. The
deep, impenetrable marsh, where the heron waded, and bittern squatted, is
made pervious to our swift shoes, as if a thousand railroads had been made
into it. With one impulse we are carried to the cabin of the musk-rat,
that earliest settler, and see him dart away under the transparent ice,
like a furred fish, to his hole in the bank; and we glide rapidly over
meadows where lately "the mower whet his scythe," through beds of frozen
cranberries mixed with meadow grass. We skate near to where the blackbird,
the pewee, and the kingbird hung their nests over the water, and the
hornets builded from the maple in the swamp. How many gay warblers
following the sun, have radiated from this nest of silver-birch and
thistledown. On the swamp's outer edge was hung the supermarine village,
where no foot penetrated. In this hollow tree the wood-duck reared her
brood, and slid away each day to forage in yonder fen.

In winter, nature is a cabinet of curiosities, full of dried specimens, in
their natural order and position. The meadows and forests are a _hortus
siccus_. The leaves and grasses stand perfectly pressed by the air without
screw or gum, and the birds' nests are not hung on an artificial twig, but
where they builded them. We go about dryshod to inspect the summer's work
in the rank swamp, and see what a growth have got the alders, the willows,
and the maples; testifying to how many warm suns, and fertilizing dews and
showers. See what strides their boughs took in the luxuriant summer,--and
anon these dormant buds will carry them onward and upward another span
into the heavens.

Occasionally we wade through fields of snow, under whose depths the river
is lost for many rods, to appear again to the right or left, where we
least expected; still holding on its way underneath, with a faint,
stertorous, rumbling sound, as if, like the bear and marmot, it too had
hibernated, and we had followed its faint summer-trail to where it earthed
itself in snow and ice. At first we should have thought that rivers would
be empty and dry in midwinter, or else frozen solid till the spring thawed
them; but their volume is not diminished even, for only a superficial cold
bridges their surface. The thousand springs which feed the lakes and
streams are flowing still. The issues of a few surface springs only are
closed, and they go to swell the deep reservoirs. Nature's wells are below
the frost. The summer brooks are not filled with snow-water, nor does the
mower quench his thirst with that alone. The streams are swollen when the
snow melts in the spring, because nature's work has been delayed, the
water being turned into ice and snow, whose particles are less smooth and
round, and do not find their level so soon.

Far over the ice, between the hemlock woods and snow-clad hills, stands
the pickerel fisher, his lines set in some retired cove, like a Finlander,
with his arms thrust into the pouches of his dreadnought; with dull,
snowy, fishy thoughts, himself a finless fish, separated a few inches from
his race; dumb, erect, and made to be enveloped in clouds and snows, like
the pines on shore. In these wild scenes, men stand about in the scenery,
or move deliberately and heavily, having sacrificed the sprightliness and
vivacity of towns to the dumb sobriety of nature. He does not make the
scenery less wild, more than the jays and musk-rats, but stands there as a
part of it, as the natives are represented in the voyages of early
navigators, at Nootka Sound, and on the Northwest coast, with their furs
about them, before they were tempted to loquacity by a scrap of iron. He
belongs to the natural family of man, and is planted deeper in nature and
has more root than the inhabitants of towns. Go to him, ask what luck, and
you will learn that he too is a worshipper of the unseen. Hear with what
sincere deference and waving gesture in his tone, he speaks of the lake
pickerel, which he has never seen, his primitive and ideal race of
pickerel. He is connected with the shore still, as by a fish-line, and yet
remembers the season when he took fish through the ice on the pond, while
the peas were up in his garden at home.

But now, while we have loitered, the clouds have gathered again, and a few
straggling snow-flakes are beginning to descend. Faster and faster they
fall, shutting out the distant objects from sight. The snow falls on every
wood and field, and no crevice is forgotten; by the river and the pond, on
the hill and in the valley. Quadrupeds are confined to their coverts, and
the birds sit upon their perches this peaceful hour. There is not so much
sound as in fair weather, but silently and gradually every slope, and the
gray walls and fences, and the polished ice, and the sere leaves, which
were not buried before, are concealed, and the tracks of men and beasts
are lost. With so little effort does nature reassert her rule and blot out
the traces of men. Hear how Homer has described the same. "The snow-flakes
fall thick and fast on a winter's day. The winds are lulled, and the snow
falls incessant, covering the tops of the mountains, and the hills, and
the plains where the lotus-tree grows, and the cultivated fields, and they
are falling by the inlets and shores of the foaming sea, but are silently
dissolved by the waves." The snow levels all things, and infolds them
deeper in the bosom of nature, as, in the slow summer, vegetation creeps
up to the entablature of the temple, and the turrets of the castle, and
helps her to prevail over art.

The surly night-wind rustles through the wood, and warns us to retrace our
steps, while the sun goes down behind the thickening storm, and birds seek
their roosts, and cattle their stalls.

      "Drooping the lab'rer ox
  Stands covered o'er with snow, and _now_ demands
  The fruit of all his toil."

Though winter is represented in the almanac as an old man, facing the wind
and sleet, and drawing his cloak about him, we rather think of him as a
merry wood-chopper, and warm-blooded youth, as blithe as summer. The
unexplored grandeur of the storm keeps up the spirits of the traveller. It
does not trifle with us, but has a sweet earnestness. In winter we lead a
more inward life. Our hearts are warm and cheery, like cottages under
drifts, whose windows and doors are half concealed, but from whose
chimneys the smoke cheerfully ascends. The imprisoning drifts increase the
sense of comfort which the house affords, and in the coldest days we are
content to sit over the hearth and see the sky through the chimney top,
enjoying the quiet and serene life that may be had in a warm corner by the
chimney side, or feeling our pulse by listening to the low of cattle in
the street, or the sound of the flail in distant barns all the long
afternoon. No doubt a skilful physician could determine our health by
observing how these simple and natural sounds affected us. We enjoy now,
not an oriental, but a boreal leisure, around warm stoves and fireplaces,
and watch the shadow of motes in the sunbeams.

Sometimes our fate grows too homely and familiarly serious ever to be
cruel. Consider how for three months the human destiny is wrapped in furs.
The good Hebrew Revelation takes no cognizance of all this cheerful snow.
Is there no religion for the temperate and frigid zones? We know of no
scripture which records the pure benignity of the gods on a New England
winter night. Their praises have never been sung, only their wrath
deprecated. The best scripture, after all, records but a meagre faith. Its
saints live reserved and austere. Let a brave devout man spend the year in
the woods of Maine or Labrador, and see if the Hebrew Scriptures speak
adequately to his condition and experience, from the setting in of winter
to the breaking up of the ice.

Now commences the long winter evening around the farmer's hearth, when the
thoughts of the indwellers travel far abroad, and men are by nature and
necessity charitable and liberal to all creatures. Now is the happy
resistance to cold, when the farmer reaps his reward, and thinks of his
preparedness for winter, and, through the glittering panes, sees with
equanimity "the mansion of the northern bear," for now the storm is over,

      "The full ethereal round,
Infinite worlds disclosing to the view,
Shines out intensely keen; and all one cope
Of starry glitter glows from pole to pole."



THE SUCCESSION OF FOREST TREES.
[An Address read to the Middlesex Agricultural Society, in Concord,
September, 1860.]

Every man is entitled to come to Cattle-show, even a transcendentalist;
and for my part I am more interested in the men than in the cattle. I wish
to see once more those old familiar faces, whose names I do not know,
which for me represent the Middlesex country, and come as near being
indigenous to the soil as a white man can; the men who are not above their
business, whose coats are not too black, whose shoes do not shine very
much, who never wear gloves to conceal their hands. It is true, there are
some queer specimens of humanity attracted to our festival, but all are
welcome. I am pretty sure to meet once more that weak-minded and whimsical
fellow, generally weak-bodied too, who prefers a crooked stick for a cane;
perfectly useless, you would say, only _bizarre_, fit for a cabinet, like
a petrified snake. A ram's horn would be as convenient, and is yet more
curiously twisted. He brings that much indulged bit of the country with
him, from some town's end or other, and introduces it to Concord groves,
as if he had promised it so much sometime. So some, it seems to me, elect
their rulers for their crookedness. But I think that a straight stick
makes the best cane, and an upright man the best ruler. Or why choose a
man to do plain work who is distinguished for his oddity? However, I do
not know but you will think that they have committed this mistake who
invited me to speak to you to-day.

In my capacity of surveyor, I have often talked with some of you, my
employers, at your dinner-tables, after having gone round and round and
behind your farming, and ascertained exactly what its limits were.
Moreover, taking a surveyor's and a naturalist's liberty, I have been in
the habit of going across your lots much oftener than is usual, as many
of you, perhaps to your sorrow, are aware. Yet many of you, to my relief,
have seemed not to be aware of it; and when I came across you in some
out-of-the-way nook of your farms, have inquired, with an air of surprise,
if I were not lost, since you had never seen me in that part of the town
or county before; when, if the truth were known, and it had not been for
betraying my secret, I might with more propriety have inquired if _you_
were not lost, since I had never seen _you_ there before. I have several
times shown the proprietor the shortest way out of his wood-lot.

Therefore, it would seem that I have some title to speak to you to-day;
and considering what that title is, and the occasion that has called us
together, I need offer no apology if I invite your attention, for the few
moments that are allotted me, to a purely scientific subject.

At those dinner-tables referred to, I have often been asked, as many of
you have been, if I could tell how it happened, that when a pine wood was
cut down an oak one commonly sprang up, and _vice versa_. To which I have
answered, and now answer, that I can tell,--that it is no mystery to me.
As I am not aware that this has been clearly shown by any one, I shall lay
the more stress on this point. Let me lead you back into your wood-lots
again.

When, hereabouts, a single forest tree or a forest springs up naturally
where none of its kind grew before, I do not hesitate to say, though in
some quarters still it may sound paradoxical, that it came from a seed. Of
the various ways by which trees are _known_ to be propagated,--by
transplanting, cuttings, and the like,--this is the only supposable one
under these circumstances. No such tree has ever been known to spring from
anything else. If any one asserts that it sprang from something else, or
from nothing, the burden of proof lies with him.

It remains, then, only to show how the seed is transported from where it
grows, to where it is planted. This is done chiefly by the agency of the
wind, water, and animals. The lighter seeds, as those of pines and maples,
are transported chiefly by wind and water; the heavier, as acorns and
nuts, by animals.

In all the pines, a very thin membrane, in appearance much like an
insect's wing, grows over and around the seed, and independent of it,
while the latter is being developed within its base. Indeed this is often
perfectly developed, though the seed is abortive; nature being, you would
say, more sure to provide the means of transporting the seed, than to
provide the seed to be transported. In other words, a beautiful thin sack
is woven around the seed, with a handle to it such as the wind can take
hold of, and it is then committed to the wind, expressly that it may
transport the seed and extend the range of the species; and this it does,
as effectually, as when seeds are sent by mail in a different kind of sack
from the patent-office. There is a patent-office at the seat of government
of the universe, whose managers are as much interested in the dispersion
of seeds as anybody at Washington can be, and their operations are
infinitely more extensive and regular.

There is then no necessity for supposing that the pines have sprung up
from nothing, and I am aware that I am not at all peculiar in asserting
that they come from seeds, though the mode of their propagation _by
nature_ has been but little attended to. They are very extensively raised
from the seed in Europe, and are beginning to be here.

When you cut down an oak wood, a pine wood will not _at once_ spring up
there unless there are, or have been, quite recently, seed-bearing pines
near enough for the seeds to be blown from them. But, adjacent to a forest
of pines, if you prevent other crops from growing there, you will surely
have an extension of your pine forest, provided the soil is suitable.

As for the heavy seeds and nuts which are not furnished with wings, the
notion is still a very common one that, when the trees which bear these
spring up where none of their kind were noticed before, they have come
from seeds or other principles spontaneously generated there in an unusual
manner, or which have lain dormant in the soil for centuries, or perhaps
been called into activity by the heat of a burning. I do not believe these
assertions, and I will state some of the ways in which, according to my
observation, such forests are planted and raised.

Every one of these seeds, too, will be found to be winged or legged in
another fashion. Surely it is not wonderful that cherry-trees of all kinds
are widely dispersed, since their fruit is well known to be the favorite
food of various birds. Many kinds are called bird-cherries, and they
appropriate many more kinds, which are not so called. Eating cherries is a
bird-like employment, and unless we disperse the seeds occasionally, as
they do, I shall think that the birds have the best right to them. See how
artfully the seed of a cherry is placed in order that a bird may be
compelled to transport it--in the very midst of a tempting pericarp, so
that the creature that would devour this must commonly take the stone also
into its mouth or bill. If you ever ate a cherry, and did not make two
bites of it, you must have perceived it--right in the centre of the
luscious morsel, a large earthy residuum left on the tongue. We thus take
into our mouths cherry stones as big as peas, a dozen at once, for Nature
can persuade us to do almost anything when she would compass her ends.
Some wild men and children instinctively swallow these, as the birds do
when in a hurry, it being the shortest way to get rid of them. Thus,
though these seeds are not provided with vegetable wings, Nature has
impelled the thrush tribe to take them into their bills and fly away with
them; and they are winged in another sense, and more effectually than the
seeds of pines, for these are carried even against the wind. The
consequence is, that cherry-trees grow not only here but there. The same
is true of a great many other seeds.

But to come to the observation which suggested these remarks. As I have
said, I suspect that I can throw some light on the fact, that when
hereabouts a dense pine wood is cut down, oaks and other hard woods may at
once take its place. I have got only to show that the acorns and nuts,
provided they are grown in the neighborhood, are regularly planted in such
woods; for I assert that if an oak-tree has not grown within ten miles,
and man has not carried acorns thither, then an oak wood will not spring
up _at once_, when a pine wood is cut down.

Apparently, there were only pines there before. They are cut off, and
after a year or two you see oaks and other hard woods springing up there,
with scarcely a pine amid them, and the wonder commonly is, how the seed
could have lain in the ground so long without decaying. But the truth is,
that it has not lain in the ground so long, but is regularly planted each
year by various quadrupeds and birds.

In this neighborhood, where oaks and pines are about equally dispersed,
if you look through the thickest pine wood, even the seemingly unmixed
pitch-pine ones, you will commonly detect many little oaks, birches, and
other hard woods, sprung from seeds carried into the thicket by squirrels
and other animals, and also blown thither, but which are over-shadowed and
choked by the pines. The denser the evergreen wood, the more likely it is
to be well planted with these seeds, because the planters incline to
resort with their forage to the closest covert. They also carry it into
birch and other woods. This planting is carried on annually, and the
oldest seedlings annually die; but when the pines are cleared off, the
oaks, having got just the start they want, and now secured favorable
conditions, immediately spring up to trees.

The shade of a dense pine wood, is more unfavorable to the springing up of
pines of the same species than of oaks within it, though the former may
come up abundantly when the pines are cut, if there chance to be sound
seed in the ground.

But when you cut off a lot of hard wood, very often the little pines mixed
with it have a similar start, for the squirrels have carried off the nuts
to the pines, and not to the more open wood, and they commonly make pretty
clean work of it; and moreover, if the wood was old, the sprouts will be
feeble or entirely fail; to say nothing about the soil being, in a
measure, exhausted for this kind of crop.

If a pine wood is surrounded by a white oak one chiefly, white oaks may be
expected to succeed when the pines are cut. If it is surrounded, instead
by an edging of shrub-oaks, then you will probably have a dense shrub-oak
thicket.

I have no time to go into details, but will say, in a word, that while the
wind is conveying the seeds of pines into hard woods and open lands, the
squirrels and other animals are conveying the seeds of oaks and walnuts
into the pine woods, and thus a rotation of crops is kept up.

I affirmed this confidently many years ago, and an occasional examination
of dense pine woods confirmed me in my opinion. It has long been known to
observers that squirrels bury nuts in the ground, but I am not aware that
any one has thus accounted for the regular succession of forests.

On the 24th of September, in 1857, as I was paddling down the Assabet, in
this town, I saw a red squirrel run along the bank under some herbage,
with something large in its mouth. It stopped near the foot of a hemlock,
within a couple of rods of me, and, hastily pawing a hole with its
forefeet, dropped its booty into it, covered it up, and retreated part way
up the trunk of the tree. As I approached the shore to examine the
deposit, the squirrel, descending part way, betrayed no little anxiety
about its treasure, and made two or three motions to recover it before it
finally retreated. Digging there, I found two green pig-nuts joined
together, with the thick husks on, buried about an inch and a half under
the reddish soil of decayed hemlock leaves,--just the right depth to plant
it. In short, this squirrel was then engaged in accomplishing two objects,
to wit, laying up a store of winter food for itself, and planting a
hickory wood for all creation. If the squirrel was killed, or neglected
its deposit, a hickory would spring up. The nearest hickory tree was
twenty rods distant. These nuts were there still just fourteen days later,
but were gone when I looked again, November 21, or six weeks later still.

I have since examined more carefully several dense woods, which are said
to be, and are apparently exclusively pine, and always with the same
result. For instance, I walked the same day to a small, but very dense and
handsome white-pine grove, about fifteen rods square, in the east part of
this town. The trees are large for Concord, being from ten to twenty
inches in diameter, and as exclusively pine as any wood that I know.
Indeed, I selected this wood because I thought it the least likely to
contain anything else. It stands on an open plain or pasture, except that
it adjoins another small pine wood, which has a few little oaks in it, on
the southeast side. On every other side, it was at least thirty rods from
the nearest woods. Standing on the edge of this grove and looking through
it, for it is quite level and free from underwood, for the most part bare,
red-carpeted ground, you would have said that there was not a hard wood
tree in it, young or old. But on looking carefully along over its floor I
discovered, though it was not till my eye had got used to the search,
that, alternating with thin ferns, and small blueberry bushes, there was,
not merely here and there, but as often as every five feet and with a
degree of regularity, a little oak, from three to twelve inches high, and
in one place I found a green acorn dropped by the base of a pine.

I confess, I was surprised to find my theory so perfectly proved in this
case. One of the principal agents in this planting, the red squirrels,
were all the while curiously inspecting me, while I was inspecting their
plantation. Some of the little oaks had been browsed by cows, which
resorted to this wood for shade.

After seven or eight years, the hard woods evidently find such a locality
unfavorable to their growth, the pines being allowed to stand. As an
evidence of this, I observed a diseased red-maple twenty-five feet long,
which had been recently prostrated, though it was still covered with green
leaves, the only maple in any position in the wood.

But although these oaks almost invariably die if the pines are not cut
down, it is probable that they do better for a few years under their
shelter than they would anywhere else.

The very extensive and thorough experiments of the English, have at length
led them to adopt a method of raising oaks almost precisely like this,
which somewhat earlier had been adopted by nature and her squirrels here;
they have simply rediscovered the value of pines as nurses for oaks. The
English experimenters seem early and generally, to have found out the
importance of using trees of some kind, as nurse-plants for the young
oaks. I quote from Loudon what he describes as "the ultimatum on the
subject of planting and sheltering oaks,"--"an abstract of the practice
adopted by the government officers in the national forests" of England,
prepared by Alexander Milne.

At first some oaks had been planted by themselves, and others mixed with
Scotch pines; "but in all cases," says Mr. Milne, "where oaks were planted
actually among the pines, and surrounded by them, [though the soil might
be inferior,] the oaks were found to be much the best." "For several years
past, the plan pursued has been to plant the inclosures with Scotch pines
only, [a tree very similar to our pitch-pine,] and when the pines have got
to the height of five or six feet, then to put in good strong oak plants
of about four or five years' growth among the pines,--not cutting away any
pines at first, unless they happen to be so strong and thick as to
overshadow the oaks. In about two years, it becomes necessary to shred the
branches of the pines, to give light and air to the oaks, and in about two
or three more years to begin gradually to remove the pines altogether,
taking out a certain number each year, so that, at the end of twenty or
twenty-five years, not a single Scotch pine shall be left; although, for
the first ten or twelve years, the plantation may have appeared to contain
nothing else but pine. The advantage of this mode of planting has been
found to be that the pines dry and ameliorate the soil, destroying the
coarse grass and brambles which frequently choke and injure oaks; and that
no mending over is necessary, as scarcely an oak so planted is found to
fail."

Thus much the English planters have discovered by patient experiment, and,
for aught I know, they have taken out a patent for it; but they appear not
to have discovered that it was discovered before, and that they are merely
adopting the method of Nature, which she long ago made patent to all.
She is all the while planting the oaks amid the pines without our
knowledge, and at last, instead of government officers, we send a party of
wood-choppers to cut down the pines, and so rescue an oak forest, at which
we wonder as if it had dropped from the skies.

As I walk amid hickories, even in August, I hear the sound of green
pig-nuts falling from time to time, cut off by the chickaree over my head.
In the fall, I notice on the ground, either within or in the neighborhood
of oak woods, on all sides of the town, stout oak twigs three or four
inches long, bearing half-a-dozen empty acorn-cups, which twigs have been
gnawed off by squirrels, on both sides of the nuts, in order to make them
more portable. The jays scream and the red squirrels scold while you are
clubbing and shaking the chestnut trees, for they are there on the same
errand, and two of a trade never agree. I frequently see a red or gray
squirrel cast down a green chestnut bur, as I am going through the woods,
and I used to think, sometimes, that they were cast at me. In fact, they
are so busy about it, in the midst of the chestnut season, that you cannot
stand long in the woods without hearing one fall. A sportsman told me that
he had, the day before,--that was in the middle of October,--seen a green
chestnut bur dropt on our great river meadow, fifty rods from the nearest
wood, and much further from the nearest chestnut-tree, and he could not
tell how it came there. Occasionally, when chestnutting in midwinter, I
find thirty or forty nuts in a pile, left in its gallery, just under the
leaves, by the common wood-mouse (_mus leucopus_).

But especially, in the winter, the extent to which this transportation and
planting of nuts is carried on is made apparent by the snow. In almost
every wood, you will see where the red or gray squirrels have pawed down
through the snow in a hundred places, sometimes two feet deep, and almost
always directly to a nut or a pine-cone, as directly as if they had
started from it and bored upward,--which you and I could not have done. It
would be difficult for us to find one before the snow falls. Commonly, no
doubt, they had deposited them there in the fall. You wonder if they
remember the localities, or discover them by the scent. The red squirrel
commonly has its winter abode in the earth under a thicket of evergreens,
frequently under a small clump of evergreens in the midst of a deciduous
wood. If there are any nut-trees, which still retain their nuts, standing
at a distance without the wood, their paths often lead directly to and
from them. We, therefore, need not suppose an oak standing here and there
_in_ the wood in order to seed it, but if a few stand within twenty or
thirty rods of it, it is sufficient.

I think that I may venture to say that every white-pine cone that falls to
the earth naturally in this town, before opening and losing its seeds, and
almost every pitch-pine one that falls at all, is cut off by a squirrel,
and they begin to pluck them long before they are ripe, so that when the
crop of white-pine cones is a small one, as it commonly is, they cut off
thus almost every one of these before it fairly ripens. I think, moreover,
that their design, if I may so speak, in cutting them off green, is,
partly, to prevent their opening and losing their seeds, for these are the
ones for which they dig through the snow, and the only white-pine cones
which contain anything then. I have counted in one heap, within a diameter
of four feet, the cores of 239 pitch-pine cones which had been cut off and
stripped by the red squirrel the previous winter.

The nuts thus left on the surface, or buried just beneath it, are placed
in the most favorable circumstances for germinating. I have sometimes
wondered how those which merely fell on the surface of the earth got
planted; but, by the end of December, I find the chestnut of the same year
partially mixed with the mould, as it were, under the decaying and mouldy
leaves, where there is all the moisture and manure they want, for the nuts
fall first. In a plentiful year, a large proportion of the nuts are thus
covered loosely an inch deep, and are, of course, somewhat concealed from
squirrels. One winter, when the crop had been abundant, I got, with the
aid of a rake, many quarts of these nuts as late as the tenth of January,
and though some bought at the store the same day were more than half of
them mouldy, I did not find a single mouldy one among these which I picked
from under the wet and mouldy leaves, where they had been snowed on once
or twice. Nature knows how to pack them best. They were still plump and
tender. Apparently, they do not heat there, though wet. In the spring they
were all sprouting.

Loudon says that "when the nut [of the common walnut of Europe] is to be
preserved through the winter for the purpose of planting in the following
spring, it should be laid in a rot-heap, as soon as gathered, with the
husk on; and the heap should be turned over frequently in the course of
the winter."

Here, again, he is stealing Nature's "thunder." How can a poor mortal do
otherwise? for it is she that finds fingers to steal with, and the
treasure to be stolen. In the planting of the seeds of most trees, the
best gardeners do no more than follow Nature, though they may not know it.
Generally, both large and small ones are most sure to germinate, and
succeed best, when only beaten into the earth with the back of a spade,
and then covered with leaves or straw. These results to which planters
have arrived, remind us of the experience of Kane and his companions at
the North, who, when learning to live in that climate, were surprised to
find themselves steadily adopting the customs of the natives, simply
becoming Esquimaux. So, when we experiment in planting forests, we find
ourselves at last doing as Nature does. Would it not be well to consult
with Nature in the outset? for she is the most extensive and experienced
planter of us all, not excepting the Dukes of Athol.

In short, they who have not attended particularly to this subject are but
little aware to what an extent quadrupeds and birds are employed,
especially in the fall, in collecting, and so disseminating and planting
the seeds of trees. It is the almost constant employment of the squirrels
at that season and you rarely meet with one that has not a nut in its
mouth, or is not just going to get one. One squirrel-hunter of this town
told me that he knew of a walnut-tree which bore particularly good nuts,
but that on going to gather them one fall, he found that he had been
anticipated by a family of a dozen red squirrels. He took out of the tree,
which was hollow, one bushel and three pecks by measurement, without the
husks, and they supplied him and his family for the winter. It would be
easy to multiply instances of this kind. How commonly in the fall you see
the cheek-pouches of the striped squirrel distended by a quantity of nuts!
This species gets its scientific name _Tamias_, or the steward, from its
habit of storing up nuts and other seeds. Look under a nut-tree a month
after the nuts have fallen, and see what proportion of sound nuts to the
abortive ones and shells you will find ordinarily. They have been already
eaten, or dispersed far and wide. The ground looks like a platform before
a grocery, where the gossips of the village sit to crack nuts and less
savory jokes. You have come, you would say, after the feast was over, and
are presented with the shells only.

Occasionally, when threading the woods in the fall, you will hear a sound
as if some one had broken a twig, and, looking up, see a jay pecking at an
acorn, or you will see a flock of them at once about it, in the top of an
oak, and hear them break them off. They then fly to a suitable limb, and
placing the acorn under one foot, hammer away at it busily, making a sound
like a woodpecker's tapping, looking round from time to time to see if any
foe is approaching, and soon reach the meat, and nibble at it, holding up
their heads to swallow, while they hold the remainder very firmly with
their claws. Nevertheless, it often drops to the ground before the bird
has done with it. I can confirm what Wm. Bartram wrote to Wilson, the
Ornithologist, that "The jay is one of the most useful agents in the
economy of nature, for disseminating forest trees and other nuciferous and
hard-seeded vegetables on which they feed. Their chief employment during
the autumnal season is foraging to supply their winter stores. In
performing this necessary duty they drop abundance of seed in their flight
over fields, hedges, and by fences, where they alight to deposit them in
the post-holes, &c. It is remarkable what numbers of young trees rise up
in fields and pastures after a wet winter and spring. These birds alone
are capable, in a few years' time, to replant all the cleared lands."

I have noticed that squirrels also frequently drop their nuts in open
land, which will still further account for the oaks and walnuts which
spring up in pastures, for, depend on it, every new tree comes from a
seed. When I examine the little oaks, one or two years old, in such
places, I invariably find the empty acorn from which they sprung.

So far from the seed having lain dormant in the soil since oaks grew there
before, as many believe, it is well known that it is difficult to preserve
the vitality of acorns long enough to transport them to Europe; and it is
recommended in Loudon's Arboretum, as the safest course, to sprout them in
pots on the voyage. The same authority states that "very few acorns of any
species will germinate after having been kept a year," that beechmast,
"only retains its vital properties one year," and the black-walnut,
"seldom more than six months after it has ripened." I have frequently
found that in November, almost every acorn left on the ground had sprouted
or decayed. What with frost, drouth, moisture, and worms, the greater part
are soon destroyed. Yet it is stated by one botanical writer that "acorns
that have lain for centuries, on being ploughed up, have soon vegetated."

Mr. George B. Emerson, in his valuable Report on the Trees and Shrubs of
this State, says of the pines: "The tenacity of life of the seeds is
remarkable. They will remain for many years unchanged in the ground,
protected by the coolness and deep shade of the forest above them. But
when the forest is removed, and the warmth of the sun admitted, they
immediately vegetate." Since he does not tell us on what observation his
remark is founded, I must doubt its truth. Besides, the experience of
nurserymen makes it the more questionable.

The stories of wheat raised from seed buried with an ancient Egyptian, and
of raspberries raised from seed found in the stomach of a man in England,
who is supposed to have died sixteen or seventeen hundred years ago, are
generally discredited, simply because the evidence is not conclusive.

Several men of science, Dr. Carpenter among them, have used the statement
that beach-plums sprang up in sand which was dug up forty miles inland in
Maine, to prove that the seed had lain there a very long time, and some
have inferred that the coast has receded so far. But it seems to me
necessary to their argument to show, first, that beach-plums grow only on
a beach. They are not uncommon here, which is about half that distance
from the shore; and I remember a dense patch a few miles north of us,
twenty-five miles inland, from which the fruit was annually carried to
market. How much further inland they grow, I know not. Dr. Chas. T.
Jackson speaks of finding "beach-plums" (perhaps they were this kind) more
than one hundred miles inland in Maine.

It chances that similar objections lie against all the more notorious
instances of the kind on record.

Yet I am prepared to believe that some seeds, especially small ones, may
retain their vitality for centuries under favorable circumstances. In the
spring of 1859, the old Hunt House, so called, in this town, whose chimney
bore the date 1703, was taken down. This stood on land which belonged to
John Winthrop, the first Governor of Massachusetts, and a part of the
house was evidently much older than the above date, and belonged to the
Winthrop family. For many years, I have ransacked this neighborhood for
plants, and I consider myself familiar with its productions. Thinking of
the seeds which are said to be sometimes dug up at an unusual depth in the
earth, and thus to reproduce long extinct plants, it occurred to me last
fall that some new or rare plants might have sprung up in the cellar of
this house, which had been covered from the light so long. Searching there
on the 22d of September, I found, among other rank weeds, a species of
nettle (_Urtica urens_), which I had not found before; dill, which I had
not seen growing spontaneously; the Jerusalem oak (_Chenopodium botrys_),
which I had seen wild in but one place; black nightshade (_Solanum
nigrum_), which is quite rare hereabouts, and common tobacco, which,
though it was often cultivated here in the last century, has for fifty
years been an unknown plant in this town, and a few months before this not
even I had heard that one man in the north part of the town, was
cultivating a few plants for his own use. I have no doubt that some or all
of these plants sprang from seeds which had long been buried under or
about that house, and that that tobacco is an additional evidence that the
plant was formerly cultivated here. The cellar has been filled up this
year, and four of those plants, including the tobacco, are now again
extinct in that locality.

It is true, I have shown that the animals consume a great part of the
seeds of trees, and so, at least, effectually prevent their becoming
trees; but in all these cases, as I have said, the consumer is compelled
to be at the same time the disperser and planter, and this is the tax
which he pays to nature. I think it is Linnaeus, who says, that while the
swine is rooting for acorns, he is planting acorns.

Though I do not believe that a plant will spring up where no seed has
been, I have great faith in a seed--a, to me, equally mysterious origin
for it. Convince me that you have a seed there, and I am prepared to
expect wonders. I shall even believe that the millennium is at hand, and
that the reign of justice is about to commence, when the Patent Office, or
Government, begins to distribute, and the people to plant the seeds of
these things.'

In the spring of 1857, I planted six seeds sent to me from the Patent
Office, and labelled, I think, "_Poitrine jaune grosse,_" large yellow
squash. Two came up, and one bore a squash which weighed 123-1/2 pounds,
the other bore four, weighing together 186-1/4 pounds. Who would have
believed that there was 310 pounds of _poitrine jaune grosse_ in that
corner of my garden? These seeds were the bait I used to catch it, my
ferrets which I sent into its burrow, my brace of terriers which unearthed
it. A little mysterious hoeing and manuring was all the _abra cadabra
presto-change,_ that I used, and lo! true to the label, they found for me
310 pounds of _poitrine jaune grosse_ there, where it never was known to
be, nor was before. These talismen had perchance sprung from America at
first, and returned to it with unabated force. The big squash took a
premium at your fair that fall, and I understood that the man who bought
it, intended to sell the seeds for ten cents a piece. (Were they not cheap
at that?) But I have more hounds of the same breed. I learn that one which
I despatched to a distant town, true to its instinct, points to the large
yellow squash there, too, where no hound ever found it before, as its
ancestors did here and in France.

Other seeds I have which will find other things in that corner of my
garden, in like fashion, almost any fruit you wish, every year for ages,
until the crop more than fills the whole garden. You have but little more
to do, than throw up your cap for entertainment these American days.
Perfect alchemists I keep, who can transmute substances without end; and
thus the corner of my garden is an inexhaustible treasure-chest. Here you
can dig, not gold, but the value which gold merely represents; and there
is no Signor Blitz about it. Yet farmers' sons will stare by the hour to
see a juggler draw ribbons from his throat, though he tells them it is all
deception. Surely, men love darkness rather than light.



WALKING.

[1862.]


I wish to speak a word for Nature, for absolute freedom and wildness, as
contrasted with a freedom and culture merely civil,--to regard man as an
inhabitant, or a part and parcel of Nature, rather than a member of
society. I wish to make an extreme statement, if so I may make an emphatic
one, for there are enough champions of civilization: the minister and the
school-committee, and every one of you will take care of that.

       *       *       *       *       *

I have met with but one or two persons in the course of my life who
understood the art of Walking, that is, of taking walks,--who had a
genius, so to speak, for _sauntering_: which word is beautifully derived
"from idle people who roved about the country, in the Middle Ages, and
asked charity, under pretence of going _à la Sainte Terre_" to the Holy
Land, till the children exclaimed, "There goes a _Sainte-Terrer_," a
Saunterer,--a Holy-Lander. They who never go to the Holy Land in their
walks, as they pretend, are indeed mere idlers and vagabonds; but they who
do go there are saunterers in the good sense, such as I mean. Some,
however, would derive the word from _sans terre_, without land or a home,
which, therefore, in the good sense, will mean, having no particular home,
but equally at home everywhere. For this is the secret of successful
sauntering. He who sits still in a house all the time may be the greatest
vagrant of all; but the saunterer, in the good sense, is no more vagrant
than the meandering river, which is all the while sedulously seeking the
shortest course to the sea. But I prefer the first, which, indeed, is the
most probable derivation. For every walk is a sort of crusade, preached by
some Peter the Hermit in us, to go forth and reconquer this Holy Land from
the hands of the Infidels.

It is true, we are but faint-hearted crusaders, even the walkers,
nowadays, who undertake no persevering, never-ending enterprises. Our
expeditions are but tours, and come round again at evening to the old
hearth-side from which we set out. Half the walk is but retracing our
steps. We should go forth on the shortest walk, perchance, in the spirit
of undying adventure, never to return,--prepared to send back our embalmed
hearts only as relics to our desolate kingdoms. If you are ready to leave
father and mother, and brother and sister, and wife and child and friends,
and never see them again,--if you have paid your debts, and made your
will, and settled all your affairs, and are a free man, then you are ready
for a walk.

To come down to my own experience, my companion and I, for I sometimes
have a companion, take pleasure in fancying ourselves knights of a new, or
rather an old, order,--not Equestrians or Chevaliers, not Ritters or
riders, but Walkers, a still more ancient and honorable class, I trust.
The chivalric and heroic spirit which once belonged to the Rider seems now
to reside in, or perchance to have subsided into, the Walker,--not the
Knight, but Walker Errant. He is a sort of fourth estate, outside of
Church and State and People.

We have felt that we almost alone hereabouts practised this noble art;
though, to tell the truth, at least, if their own assertions are to be
received, moat of my townsmen would fain walk sometimes, as I do, but they
cannot. No wealth can buy the requisite leisure, freedom, and
independence, which are the capital in this profession. It comes only by
the grace of God. It requires a direct dispensation from Heaven to become
a walker. You must be born into the family of the Walkers. _Ambulator
nascitur, non fit._ Some of my townsmen, it is true, can remember and have
described to me some walks which they took ten years ago, in which they
were so blessed as to lose themselves for half an hour in the woods; but I
know very well that they have confined themselves to the highway ever
since, whatever pretensions they may make to belong to this select class.
No doubt they were elevated for a moment as by the reminiscence of a
previous state of existence, when even they were foresters and outlaws.

"When he came to grene wode,
  In a mery mornynge,
There he herde the notes small
  Of byrdes mery syngynge.

"It is ferre gone, sayd Robyn,
  That I was last here;
Me lyste a lytell for to shote
  At the donne dere."

I think that I cannot preserve my health and spirits, unless I spend four
hours a day at least,--and it is commonly more than that,--sauntering
through the woods and over the hills and fields, absolutely free from all
worldly engagements. You may safely say, A penny for your thoughts, or a
thousand pounds. When sometimes I am reminded that the mechanics and
shopkeepers stay in their shops not only all the forenoon, but all the
afternoon too, sitting with crossed legs, so many of them,--as if the legs
were made to sit upon, and not to stand or walk upon,--I think that they
deserve some credit for not having all committed suicide long ago.

I, who cannot stay in my chamber for a single day without acquiring some
rust, and when sometimes I have stolen forth for a walk at the eleventh
hour of four o'clock in the afternoon, too late to redeem the day, when
the shades of night were already beginning to be mingled with the
daylight, have felt as if I had committed some sin to be atoned for,--I
confess that I am astonished at the power of endurance, to say nothing of
the moral insensibility, of my neighbors who confine themselves to shops
and offices the whole day for weeks and months, ay, and years almost
together. I know not what manner of stuff they are of,--sitting there now
at three o'clock in the afternoon, as if it were three o'clock in the
morning. Bonaparte may talk of the three-o'clock-in-the-morning courage,
but it is nothing to the courage which can sit down cheerfully at this
hour in the afternoon over against one's self whom you have known all the
morning, to starve out a garrison to whom you are bound by such strong
ties of sympathy. I wonder that about this time, or say between four and
five o'clock in the afternoon, too late for the morning papers and too
early for the evening ones, there is not a general explosion heard up and
down the street, scattering a legion of antiquated and house-bred notions
and whims to the four winds for an airing,--and so the evil cure itself.

How womankind, who are confined to the house still more than men, stand it
I do not know; but I have ground to suspect that most of them do not
_stand_ it at all. When, early in a summer afternoon, we have been shaking
the dust of the village from the skirts of our garments, making haste past
those houses with purely Doric or Gothic fronts, which have such an air of
repose about them, my companion whispers that probably about these times
their occupants are all gone to bed. Then it is that I appreciate the
beauty and the glory of architecture, which itself never turns in, but
forever stands out and erect, keeping watch over the slumberers.

No doubt temperament, and, above all, age, have a good deal to do with it.
As a man grows older, his ability to sit still and follow indoor
occupations increases. He grows vespertinal in his habits as the evening
of life approaches, till at last he comes forth only just before sundown,
and gets all the walk that he requires in half an hour.

But the walking of which I speak has nothing in it akin to taking
exercise, as it is called, as the sick take medicine at stated hours,--as
the swinging of dumb-bells or chairs; but is itself the enterprise and
adventure of the day. If you would get exercise, go in search of the
springs of life. Think of a man's swinging dumb-bells for his health, when
those springs are bubbling up in far-off pastures unsought by him!

Moreover, you must walk like a camel, which is said to be the only beast
which ruminates when walking. When a traveller asked Wordsworth's servant
to show him her master's study, she answered, "Here is his library, but
his study is out of doors."

Living much out of doors, in the sun and wind, will no doubt produce a
certain roughness of character,--will cause a thicker cuticle to grow over
some of the finer qualities of our nature, as on the face and hands, or as
severe manual labor robs the hands of some of their delicacy of touch. So
staying in the house, on the other hand, may produce a softness and
smoothness, not to say thinness of skin, accompanied by an increased
sensibility to certain impressions. Perhaps we should be more susceptible
to some influences important to our intellectual and moral growth, if the
sun had shone and the wind blown on us a little less; and no doubt it is a
nice matter to proportion rightly the thick and thin skin. But methinks
that is a scurf that will fall off fast enough,--that the natural remedy
is to be found in the proportion which the night bears to the day, the
winter to the summer, thought to experience. There will be so much the
more air and sunshine in our thoughts. The callous palms of the laborer
are conversant with finer tissues of self-respect and heroism, whose touch
thrills the heart, than the languid fingers of idleness. That is mere
sentimentality that lies abed by day and thinks itself white, far from the
tan and callus of experience.

When we walk, we naturally go to the fields and woods: what would become
of us, if we walked only in a garden or a mall? Even some sects of
philosophers have felt the necessity of importing the woods to themselves,
since they did not go to the woods. "They planted groves and walks of
Platanes," where they took _subdiales ambulationes_ in porticos open to
the air. Of course it is of no use to direct our steps to the woods, if
they do not carry us thither. I am alarmed when it happens that I have
walked a mile into the woods bodily, without getting there in spirit. In
my afternoon walk I would fain forget all my morning occupations and my
obligations to society. But it sometimes happens that I cannot easily
shake off the village. The thought of some work will run in my head, and I
am not where my body is,--I am out of my senses. In my walks I would fain
return to my senses. What business have I in the woods, if I am thinking
of something out of the woods? I suspect myself, and cannot help a
shudder, when I find myself so implicated even in what are called good
works,--for this may sometimes happen.

My vicinity affords many good walks; and though for so many years I have
walked almost every day, and sometimes for several days together, I have
not yet exhausted them. An absolutely new prospect is a great happiness,
and I can still get this any afternoon. Two or three hours' walking will
carry me to as strange a country as I expect ever to see. A single
farmhouse which I had not seen before is sometimes as good as the
dominions of the King of Dahomey. There is in fact a sort of harmony
discoverable between the capabilities of the landscape within a circle of
ten miles' radius, or the limits of an afternoon walk, and the threescore
years and ten of human life. It will never become quite familiar to you.

Nowadays almost all man's improvements, so called, as the building of
houses, and the cutting down of the forest and of all large trees, simply
deform the landscape, and make it more and more tame and cheap. A people
who would begin by burning the fences and let the forest stand! I saw the
fences half consumed, their ends lost in the middle of the prairie, and
some worldly miser with a surveyor looking after his bounds, while heaven
had taken place around him, and he did not see the angels going to and
fro, but was looking for an old post-hole in the midst of paradise. I
looked again, and saw him standing in the middle of a boggy, stygian fen,
surrounded by devils, and he had found his bounds without a doubt, three
little stones, where a stake had been driven, and looking nearer, I saw
that the Prince of Darkness was his surveyor.

I can easily walk ten, fifteen, twenty, any number of miles, commencing at
my own door, without going by any house, without crossing a road except
where the fox and the mink do: first along by the river, and then the
brook, and then the meadow and the wood-side. There are square miles in my
vicinity which have no inhabitant. From many a hill I can see civilization
and the abodes of man afar. The farmers and their works are scarcely more
obvious than woodchucks and their burrows. Man and his affairs, church and
state and school, trade and commerce, and manufactures and agriculture,
even politics, the most alarming of them all,--I am pleased to see how
little space they occupy in the landscape. Politics is but a narrow field,
and that still narrower highway yonder leads to it. I sometimes direct the
traveller thither. If you would go to the political world, follow the
great road,--follow that market-man, keep his dust in your eyes, and it
will lead you straight to it; for it, too, has its place merely, and does
not occupy all space. I pass from it as from a bean-field into the forest,
and it is forgotten. In one half-hour I can walk off to some portion of
the earth's surface where a man does not stand from one year's end to
another, and there, consequently, politics are not, for they are but as
the cigar-smoke of a man.

The village is the place to which the roads tend, a sort of expansion of
the highway, as a lake of a river. It is the body of which roads are the
arms and legs,--a trivial or quadrivial place, the thoroughfare and
ordinary of travellers. The word is from the Latin _villa_, which,
together with _via_, a way, or more anciently _ved_ and _vella_, Varro
derives from _veho_, to carry, because the villa is the place to and from
which things are carried. They who got their living by teaming were said
_vellaturam facere_. Hence, too, apparently, the Latin word _vilis_ and
our vile; also _villain_. This suggests what kind of degeneracy villagers
are liable to. They are wayworn by the travel that goes by and over them,
without travelling themselves.

Some do not walk at all; others walk in the highways; a few walk across
lots. Roads are made for horses and men of business. I do not travel in
them much, comparatively, because I am not in a hurry to get to any tavern
or grocery or livery-stable or depot to which they lead. I am a good horse
to travel, but not from choice a roadster. The landscape-painter uses the
figures of men to mark a road. He would not make that use of my figure. I
walk out into a Nature such as the old prophets and poets, Menu, Moses,
Homer, Chaucer, walked in. You may name it America, but it is not America:
neither Atnericus Vespucius, nor Columbus, nor the rest were the
discoverers of it. There is a truer account of it in mythology than in any
history of America, so called, that I have seen.

However, there are a few old roads that may be trodden with profit, as if
they led somewhere now that they are nearly discontinued. There is the Old
Marlborough Road, which does not go to Marlborough now, methinks, unless
that is Marlborough where it carries me. I am the bolder to speak of it
here, because I presume that there are one or two such roads in every
town.

    THE OLD MARLBOROUGH ROAD.

    Where they once dug for money,
    But never found any;
    Where sometimes Martial Miles
    Singly files,
    And Elijah Wood,
    I fear for no good:
    No other man,
    Save Elisha Dugan,--
    O man of wild habits,
    Partridges and rabbits,
    Who hast no cares
    Only to set snares,
    Who liv'st all alone,
    Close to the bone,
    And where life is sweetest
    Constantly eatest.
When the spring stirs my blood
  With the instinct to travel,
  I can get enough gravel
On the Old Marlborough Road.
    Nobody repairs it,
    For nobody wears it;
    It is a living way,
    As the Christians say.
Not many there be
  Who enter therein,
Only the guests of the
  Irishman Quin.
What is it, what is it,
  But a direction out there,
And the bare possibility
  Of going somewhere?
    Great guide-boards of stone,
    But travellers none;
    Cenotaphs of the towns
    Named on their crowns.
    It is worth going to see
    Where you _might_ be.
    What king
    Did the thing,
    I am still wondering;
    Set up how or when,
    By what selectmen,
    Gourgas or Lee,
    Clark or Darby?
    They're a great endeavor
    To be something forever;
    Blank tablets of stone,
    Where a traveller might groan,
    And in one sentence
    Grave all that is known;
    Which another might read,
    In his extreme need.
    I know one or two
    Lines that would do,
    Literature that might stand
    All over the land,
    Which a man could remember
    Till next December,
    And read again in the spring,
    After the thawing.
If with fancy unfurled
  You leave your abode,
You may go round the world
  By the Old Marlborough Road.

At present, in this vicinity, the best part of the land is not private
property; the landscape is not owned, and the walker enjoys comparative
freedom. But possibly the day will come when it will be partitioned off
into so-called pleasure-grounds, in which a few will take a narrow and
exclusive pleasure only,--when fences shall be multiplied, and man-traps
and other engines invented to confine men to the _public_ road, and
walking over the surface of God's earth shall be construed to mean
trespassing on some gentleman's grounds. To enjoy a thing exclusively is
commonly to exclude yourself from the true enjoyment of it. Let us improve
our opportunities, then, before the evil days come.

       *       *       *       *       *

What is it that makes it so hard sometimes to determine whither we will
walk? I believe that there is a subtile magnetism in Nature, which, if we
unconsciously yield to it, will direct us aright. It is not indifferent to
us which way we walk. There is a right way; but we are very liable from
heedlessness and stupidity to take the wrong one. We would fain take that
walk, never yet taken by us through this actual world, which is perfectly
symbolical of the path which we love to travel in the interior and ideal
world; and sometimes, no doubt, we find it difficult to choose our
direction, because it does not yet exist distinctly in our idea.

When I go out of the house for a walk, uncertain as yet whither I will
bend my steps, and submit myself to my instinct to decide for me, I find,
strange and whimsical as it may seem, that I finally and inevitably settle
southwest, toward some particular wood or meadow or deserted pasture or
hill in that direction. My needle is slow to settle,--varies a few
degrees, and does not always point due southwest, it is true, and it has
good authority for this 'variation, but it always settles between west and
south-southwest. The future lies that way to me, and the earth seems more
unexhausted and richer on that side. The outline which would bound my
walks would be, not a circle, but a parabola, or rather like one of those
cometary orbits which have been thought to be non-returning curves, in
this case opening westward, in which my house occupies the place of the
sun. I turn round and round irresolute sometimes for a quarter of an hour,
until I decide, for a thousandth time, that I will walk into the southwest
or west. Eastward I go only by force; but westward I go free. Thither no
business leads me. It is hard for me to believe that I shall find fair
landscapes or sufficient wildness and freedom behind the eastern horizon.
I am not excited by the prospect of a walk thither; but I believe that the
forest which I see in the western horizon stretches uninterruptedly toward
the setting sun, and there are no towns nor cities in it of enough
consequence to disturb me. Let me live where I will, on this side is the
city, on that the wilderness, and ever I am leaving the city more and
more, and withdrawing into the wilderness. I should not lay so much stress
on this fact, if I did not believe that something like this is the
prevailing tendency of my countrymen. I must walk toward Oregon, and not
toward Europe. And that way the nation is moving, and I may say that
mankind progress from east to west. Within a few years we have witnessed
the phenomenon of a southeastward migration, in the settlement of
Australia; but this affects us as a retrograde movement, and, judging from
the moral and physical character of the first generation of Australians,
has not yet proved a successful experiment. The eastern Tartars think that
there is nothing west beyond Thibet. "The world ends there," say they,
"beyond there is nothing but a shoreless sea." It is unmitigated East
where they live.

We go eastward to realize history and study the works of art and
literature, retracing the steps of the race; we go westward as into the
future, with a spirit of enterprise and adventure. The Atlantic is a
Lethean stream, in our passage over which we have had an opportunity to
forget the Old World and its institutions. If we do not succeed this time,
there is perhaps one more chance for the race left before it arrives on
the banks of the Styx; and that is in the Lethe of the Pacific, which is
three times as wide.

I know not how significant it is, or how far it is an evidence of
singularity, that an individual should thus consent in his pettiest walk
with the general movement of the race; but I know that something akin to
the migratory instinct in birds and quadrupeds,--which, in some instances,
is known to have affected the squirrel tribe, impelling them to a general
and mysterious movement, in which they were seen, say some, crossing the
broadest rivers, each on its particular chip, with its tail raised for a
sail, and bridging narrower streams with their dead,--that something like
the _furor_ which affects the domestic cattle in the spring, and which is
referred to a worm in their tails,--affects both nations and individuals,
either perennially or from time to time. Not a flock of wild geese cackles
over our town, but it to some extent unsettles the value of real estate
here, and, if I were a broker, I should probably take that disturbance
into account.

  "Than longen folk to gon on pilgrimages,
   And palmeres for to seken strange strondes."

Every sunset which I witness inspires me with the desire to go to a West
as distant and as fair as that into which the sun goes down. He appears to
migrate westward daily, and tempt us to follow him. He is the Great
Western Pioneer whom the nations follow. We dream all night of those
mountain-ridges in the horizon, though they may be of vapor only, which
were last gilded by his rays. The island of Atlantis, and the islands and
gardens of the Hesperides, a sort of terrestrial paradise, appear to have
been the Great West of the ancients, enveloped in mystery and poetry. Who
has not seen in imagination, when looking into the sunset sky, the gardens
of the Hesperides, and the foundation of all those fables?

Columbus felt the westward tendency more strongly than any before. He
obeyed it, and found a New World for Castile and Leon. The herd of men in
those days scented fresh pastures from afar.

  "And now the sun had stretched out all the hills,
   And now was dropped into the western bay;
   At last _he_ rose, and twitched his mantle blue;
   To-morrow to fresh woods and pastures new."

Where on the globe can there be found an area of equal extent with that
occupied by the bulk of our States, so fertile and so rich and varied in
its productions, and at the same time so habitable by the European, as
this is? Michaux, who knew but part of them, says that "the species of
large trees are much more numerous in North America than in Europe; in the
United States there are more than one hundred and forty species that
exceed thirty feet in height; in France there are but thirty that attain
this size." Later botanists more than confirm his observations. Humboldt
came to America to realize his youthful dreams of a tropical vegetation,
and he beheld it in its greatest perfection in the primitive forests of
the Amazon, the most gigantic wilderness on the earth, which he has so
eloquently described. The geographer Guyot, himself a European, goes
farther,--farther than I am ready to follow him; yet not when he says,--
"As the plant is made for the animal, as the vegetable world is made for
the animal world, America is made for the man of the Old World.... The man
of the Old World sets out upon his way. Leaving the highlands of Asia, he
descends from station to station towards Europe. Each of his steps is
marked by a new civilization superior to the preceding, by a greater power
of development. Arrived at the Atlantic, he pauses on the shore of this
unknown ocean, the bounds of which he knows not, and turns upon his
footprints for an instant." When he has exhausted the rich soil of Europe,
and reinvigorated himself, "then recommences his adventurous career
westward as in the earliest ages." So far Guyot.

From this western impulse coming in contact with the barrier of the
Atlantic sprang the commerce and enterprise of modern times. The younger
Michaux, in his "Travels West of the Alleghanies in 1802," says that the
common inquiry in the newly settled West was, "'From what part of the
world have you come?' As if these vast and fertile regions would naturally
be the place of meeting and common country of all the inhabitants of the
globe."

To use an obsolete Latin word, I might say, _Ex Oriente lux; ex Occidente
FRUX_. From the East light; from the West fruit.

Sir Francis, Head, an English traveller and a Governor-General of Canada,
tells us that "in both the northern and southern hemispheres of the New
World, Nature has not only outlined her works on a larger scale, but has
painted the whole picture with brighter and more costly colors than she
used in delineating and in beautifying the Old World.... The heavens of
America appear infinitely higher, the sky is bluer, the air is fresher,
the cold is intenser, the moon looks larger, the stars are brighter, the
thunder is louder, the lightning is vivider, the wind is stronger, the
rain is heavier, the mountains are higher, the rivers longer, the forests
bigger, the plains broader." This statement will do at least to set
against Buffon's account of this part of the world and its productions.

Linnaeus said long ago, "Nescio quae facies _laeta, glabra_ plantis
Americanis: I know not what there is of joyous and smooth in the aspect of
American plants;" and I think that in this country there are no, or at
most very few, _Africanae bestiae_, African beasts, as the Romans called
them, and that in this respect also it is peculiarly fitted for the
habitation of man. We are told that within three miles of the centre of
the East-Indian city of Singapore, some of the inhabitants are annually
carried off by tigers; but the traveller can lie down in the woods at
night almost anywhere in North America without fear of wild beasts.

These are encouraging testimonies. If the moon looks larger here than in
Europe, probably the sun looks larger also. If the heavens of America
appear infinitely higher, and the stars brighter, I trust that these facts
are symbolical of the height to which the philosophy and poetry and
religion of her inhabitants may one day soar. At length, perchance, the
immaterial heaven will appear as much higher to the American mind, and the
intimations that star it as much brighter. For I believe that climate does
thus react on man,--as there is something in the mountain-air that feeds
the spirit and inspires. Will not man grow to greater perfection
intellectually as well as physically under these influences? Or is it
unimportant how many foggy days there are in his life? I trust that we
shall be more imaginative, that our thoughts will be clearer, fresher, and
more ethereal, as our sky,--our understanding more comprehensive and
broader, like our plains,--our intellect generally on a grander scale,
like our thunder and lightning, our rivers and mountains and forests,--and
our hearts shall even correspond in breadth and depth and grandeur to our
inland seas. Perchance there will appear to the traveller something, he
knows not what, of _laeta_ and _glabra_, of joyous and serene, in our very
faces. Else to what end does the world go on, and why was America
discovered?

To Americans I hardly need to say,--

  "Westward the star of empire takes its way."

As a true patriot, I should be ashamed to think that Adam in paradise was
more favorably situated on the whole than the backwoodsman in this
country.

Our sympathies in Massachusetts are not confined to New England; though we
may be estranged from the South, we sympathize with the West. There is the
home of the younger sons, as among the Scandinavians they took to the sea
for their inheritance. It is too late to be studying Hebrew; it is more
important to understand even the slang of to-day.

Some months ago I went to see a panorama of the Rhine. It was like a dream
of the Middle Ages. I floated down its historic stream in something more
than imagination, under bridges built by the Romans, and repaired by later
heroes, past cities and castles whose very names were music to my ears,
and each of which was the subject of a legend. There were Ehrenbreitstein
and Rolandseck and Coblentz, which I knew only in history. They were ruins
that interested me chiefly. There seemed to come up from its waters and
its vine-clad hills and valleys a hushed music as of Crusaders departing
for the Holy Land. I floated along under the spell of enchantment, as if I
had been transported to an heroic age, and breathed an atmosphere of
chivalry.

Soon after, I went to see a panorama of the Mississippi, and as I worked
my way up the river in the light of to-day, and saw the steamboats wooding
up, counted the rising cities, gazed on the fresh ruins of Nauvoo, beheld
the Indians moving west across the stream, and, as before I had looked up
the Moselle now looked up the Ohio and the Missouri, and heard the legends
of Dubuque and of Wenona's Cliff,--still thinking more of the future than
of the past or present,--I saw that this was a Rhine stream of a different
kind; that the foundations of castles were yet to be laid, and the famous
bridges were yet to be thrown over the river; and I felt that _this was
the heroic age itself_, though we know it not, for the hero is commonly
the simplest and obscurest of men.

       *       *       *       *       *

The West of which I speak is but another name for the Wild; and what I
have been preparing to say is, that in Wildness is the preservation of the
World. Every tree sends its fibres forth in search of the Wild. The cities
import it at any price. Men plough and sail for it. From the forest and
wilderness come the tonics and barks which brace mankind. Our ancestors
were savages. The story of Romulus and Remus being suckled by a wolf is
not a meaningless fable. The founders of every State which has risen to
eminence have drawn their nourishment and vigor from a similar wild
source. It was because the children of the Empire were not suckled by the
wolf that they were conquered and displaced by the children of the
Northern forests who were.

I believe in the forest, and in the meadow, and in the night in which the
corn grows. We require an infusion of hemlock-spruce or arbor-vitae in our
tea. There is a difference between eating and drinking for strength and
from mere gluttony. The Hottentots eagerly devour the marrow of the koodoo
and other antelopes raw, as a matter of course. Some of our Northern
Indians eat raw the marrow of the Arctic reindeer, as well as various
other parts, including the summits of the antlers, as long as they are
soft. And herein, perchance, they have stolen a march on the cooks of
Paris. They get what usually goes to feed the fire. This is probably
better than stall-fed beef and slaughter-house pork to make a man of. Give
me a wildness whose glance no civilization can endure,--as if we lived on
the marrow of koodoos devoured raw.

There are some intervals which border the strain of the wood-thrush, to
which I would migrate,--wild lands where no settler has squatted; to
which, methinks, I am already acclimated.

The African hunter Cummings tells us that the skin of the eland, as well
as that of most other antelopes just killed, emits the most delicious
perfume of trees and grass. I would have every man so much like a wild
antelope, so much a part and parcel of Nature, that his very person should
thus sweetly advertise our senses of his presence, and remind us of those
parts of Nature which he most haunts. I feel no disposition to be
satirical, when the trapper's coat emits the odor of musquash even; it is
a sweeter scent to me than that which commonly exhales from the merchant's
or the scholar's garments. When I go into their wardrobes and handle their
vestments, I am reminded of no grassy plains and flowery meads which they
have frequented, but of dusty merchants' exchanges and libraries rather.

A tanned skin is something more than respectable, and perhaps olive is a
fitter color than white for a man,--a denizen of the woods. "The pale
white man!" I do not wonder that the African pitied him. Darwin the
naturalist says, "A white man bathing by the side of a Tahitian was like a
plant bleached by the gardener's art, compared with a fine, dark green
one, growing vigorously in the open fields."

Ben Jonson exclaims,--

  "How near to good is what is fair!"

So I would say,--

  How near to good is what is _wild_!

Life consists with wildness. The most alive is the wildest. Not yet
subdued to man, its presence refreshes him. One who pressed forward
incessantly and never rested from his labors, who grew fast and made
infinite demands on life, would always find himself in a new country or
wilderness, and surrounded by the raw material of life. He would be
climbing over the prostrate stems of primitive forest-trees.

Hope and the future for me are not in lawns and cultivated fields, not in
towns and cities, but in the impervious and quaking swamps. When,
formerly, I have analyzed my partiality for some farm which I had
contemplated purchasing, I have frequently found that I was attracted
solely by a few square rods of impermeable and unfathomable bog,--a
natural sink in one corner of it. That was the jewel which dazzled me. I
derive more of my subsistence from the swamps which surround my native
town than from the cultivated gardens in the village. There are no richer
parterres to my eyes than the dense beds of dwarf andromeda _(Cassandra
calyculata_) which cover these tender places on the earth's surface.
Botany cannot go farther than tell me the names of the shrubs which grow
there,--the high-blueberry, panicled andromeda, lamb-kill, azalea, and
rhodora,--all standing in the quaking sphagnum. I often think that I
should like to have my house front on this mass of dull red bushes,
omitting other flower plots and borders, transplanted spruce and trim box,
even gravelled walks,--to have this fertile spot under my windows, not a
few imported barrow-fulls of soil only to cover the sand which was thrown
out in digging the cellar. Why not put my house, my parlor, behind this
plot, instead of behind that meagre assemblage of curiosities, that poor
apology for a Nature and Art, which I call my front-yard? It is an effort
to clear up and make a decent appearance when the carpenter and mason have
departed, though done as much for the passer-by as the dweller within. The
most tasteful front-yard fence was never an agreeable object of study to
me; the most elaborate ornaments, acorn-tops, or what not, soon wearied
and disgusted me. Bring your sills up to the very edge of the swamp, then,
(though it may not be the best place for a dry cellar,) so that there be
no access on that side to citizens. Front-yards are not made to walk in,
but, at most, through, and you could go in the back way.

Yes, though you may think me perverse, if it were proposed to me to dwell
in the neighborhood of the most beautiful garden that ever human art
contrived, or else of a Dismal swamp, I should certainly decide for the
swamp. How vain, then, have been all your labors, citizens, for me!

My spirits infallibly rise in proportion to the outward dreariness. Give
me the ocean, the desert or the wilderness! In the desert, pure air and
solitude compensate for want of moisture and fertility. The traveller
Burton says of it,--"Your _morale_ improves; you become frank and cordial,
hospitable and single-minded..... In the desert, spirituous liquors excite
only disgust. There is a keen enjoyment in a mere animal existence." They
who have been travelling long on the steppes of Tartary say,--"On
reëntering cultivated lands, the agitation, perplexity, and turmoil of
civilization oppressed and suffocated us; the air seemed to fail us, and
we felt every moment as if about to die of asphyxia." When I would
recreate myself, I seek the darkest wood, the thickest and most
interminable, and, to the citizen, most dismal swamp. I enter a swamp as a
sacred place,--a _sanctum sanctorum_. There is the strength, the marrow of
Nature. The wild-wood covers the virgin mould,--and the same soil is good
for men and for trees. A man's health requires as many acres of meadow to
his prospect as his farm does loads of muck. There are the strong meats on
which he feeds. A town is saved, not more by the righteous men in it than
by the woods and swamps that surround it. A township where one primitive
forest waves above, while another primitive forest rots below,--such a
town is fitted to raise not only corn and potatoes, but poets and
philosophers for the coming ages. In such a soil grew Homer and Confucius
and the rest, and out of such a wilderness comes the Reformer eating
locusts and wild honey.

To preserve wild animals implies generally the creation of a forest for
them to dwell in or resort to. So it is with man. A hundred years ago they
sold bark in our streets peeled from our own woods. In the very aspect of
those primitive and rugged trees, there was, methinks, a tanning principle
which hardened and consolidated the fibres of men's thoughts. Ah! already
I shudder for these comparatively degenerate days of my native village,
when you cannot collect a load of bark of good thickness,--and we no
longer produce tar and turpentine.

The civilized nations--Greece, Rome, England--have been sustained by the
primitive forests which anciently rotted where they stand. They survive as
long as the soil is not exhausted. Alas for human culture! little is to be
expected of a nation, when the vegetable mould is exhausted, and it is
compelled to make manure of the bones of its fathers. There the poet
sustains himself merely by his own superfluous fat, and the philosopher
comes down on his marrow-bones.

It is said to be the task of the American "to work the virgin soil," and
that "agriculture here already assumes proportions unknown everywhere
else." I think that the farmer displaces the Indian even because he
redeems the meadow, and so makes himself stronger and in some respects
more natural. I was surveying for a man the other day a single straight
line one hundred and thirty-two rods long, through a swamp, at whose
entrance might have been written the words which Dante read over the
entrance to the infernal regions,--"Leave all hope, ye that enter,"--that
is, of ever getting out again; where at one time I saw my employer
actually up to his neck and swimming for his life in his property, though
it was still winter. He had another similar swamp which I could not survey
at all, because it was completely under water, and nevertheless, with
regard to a third swamp, which I did _survey_ from a distance, he remarked
to me, true to his instincts, that he would not part with it for any
consideration, on account of the mud which it contained. And that man
intends to put a girdling ditch round the whole in the course of forty
months, and so redeem it by the magic of his spade. I refer to him only as
the type of a class.

The weapons with which we have gained our most important victories, which
should be handed down as heirlooms from father to son, are not the sword
and the lance, but the bushwhack, the turf-cutter, the spade, and the
bog-hoe, rusted with the blood of many a meadow, and begrimed with the
dust of many a hard-fought field. The very winds blew the Indian's
cornfield into the meadow, and pointed out the way which he had not the
skill to follow. He had no better implement with which to intrench himself
in the land than a clam-shell. But the farmer is armed with plough and
spade.

In Literature it is only the wild that attracts us. Dullness is but
another name for tameness. It is the uncivilized free and wild thinking in
"Hamlet" and the "Iliad," in all the Scriptures and Mythologies, not
learned in the schools, that delights us. As the wild duck is more swift
and beautiful than the tame, so is the wild--the mallard--thought, which
'mid falling dews wings its way above the fens. A truly good book is
something as natural, and as unexpectedly and unaccountably fair and
perfect, as a wild flower discovered on the prairies of the West or in the
jungles of the East. Genius is a light which makes the darkness visible,
like the lightning's flash, which perchance shatters the temple of
knowledge itself,--and not a taper lighted at the hearth-stone of the
race, which pales before the light of common day.

English literature, from the days of the minstrels to the Lake Poets,--
Chaucer and Spenser and Milton, and even Shakspeare, included,--breathes
no quite fresh and in this sense wild strain. It is an essentially tame
and civilized literature, reflecting Greece and Rome. Her wilderness is a
green wood,--her wild man a Robin Hood. There is plenty of genial love of
Nature, but not so much of Nature herself. Her chronicles inform us when
her wild animals, but not when the wild man in her, became extinct.

The science of Humboldt is one thing, poetry is another thing. The poet
to-day, notwithstanding all the discoveries of science, and the
accumulated learning of mankind, enjoys no advantage over Homer.

Where is the literature which gives expression to Nature? He would be a
poet who could impress the winds and streams into his service, to speak
for him; who nailed words to their primitive senses, as farmers drive down
stakes in the spring, which the frost has heaved; who derived his words as
often as he used them,--transplanted them to his page with earth adhering
to their roots; whose words were so true and fresh and natural that they
would appear to expand like the buds at the approach of spring, though
they lay half-smothered between two musty leaves in a library,--ay, to
bloom and bear fruit there, after their kind, annually, for the faithful
reader, in sympathy with surrounding Nature.

I do not know of any poetry to quote which adequately expresses this
yearning for the Wild. Approached from this side, the best poetry is tame.
I do not know where to find in any literature, ancient or modern, any
account which contents me of that Nature with which even I am acquainted.
You will perceive that I demand something which no Augustan nor
Elizabethan age, which no _culture_, in short, can give. Mythology comes
nearer to it than anything. How much more fertile a Nature, at least, has
Grecian mythology its root in than English literature! Mythology is the
crop which the Old World bore before its soil was exhausted, before the
fancy and imagination were affected with blight; and which it still bears,
wherever its pristine vigor is unabated. All other literatures endure only
as the elms which overshadow our houses; but this is like the great
dragon-tree of the Western Isles, as old as mankind, and, whether that
does or not, will endure as long; for the decay of other literatures makes
the soil in which it thrives.

The West is preparing to add its fables to those of the East. The valleys
of the Ganges, the Nile, and the Rhine, having yielded their crop, it
remains to be seen what the valleys of the Amazon, the Plate, the Orinoco,
the St. Lawrence, and the Mississippi will produce. Perchance, when, in
the course of ages, American liberty has become a fiction of the past,--as
it is to some extent a fiction of the present,--the poets of the world
will be inspired by American mythology.

The wildest dreams of wild men, even, are not the less true, though they
may not recommend themselves to the sense which is most common among
Englishmen and Americans today. It is not every truth that recommends
itself to the common sense. Nature has a place for the wild clematis as
well as for the cabbage. Some expressions of truth are reminiscent,--
others merely _sensible_, as the phrase is,--others prophetic. Some forms
of disease, even, may prophesy forms of health. The geologist has
discovered that the figures of serpents, griffins, flying dragons, and
other fanciful embellishments of heraldry, have their prototypes in the
forms of fossil species which were extinct before man was created, and
hence "indicate a faint and shadowy knowledge of a previous state of
organic existence." The Hindoos dreamed that the earth rested on an
elephant, and the elephant on a tortoise, and the tortoise on a serpent;
and though it may be an unimportant coincidence, it will not be out of
place here to state, that a fossil tortoise has lately been discovered in
Asia large enough to support an elephant. I confess that I am partial to
these wild fancies, which transcend the order of time and development.
They are the sublimest recreation of the intellect. The partridge loves
peas, but not those that go with her into the pot.

In short, all good things are wild and free. There is something in
a strain of music, whether produced by an instrument or by the human
voice,--take the sound of a bugle in a summer night, for instance,--which
by its wildness, to speak without satire, reminds me of the cries emitted
by wild beasts in their native forests. It is so much of their wildness as
I can understand. Give me for my friends and neighbors wild men, not tame
ones. The wildness of the savage is but a faint symbol of the awful ferity
with which good men and lovers meet.

I love even to see the domestic animals reassert their native rights,--any
evidence that they have not wholly lost their original wild habits and
vigor; as when my neighbor's cow breaks out of her pasture early in the
spring and boldly swims the river, a cold, gray tide, twenty-five or
thirty rods wide, swollen by the melted snow. It is the buffalo crossing
the Mississippi. This exploit confers some dignity on the herd in my
eyes,--already dignified. The seeds of instinct are preserved under the
thick hides of cattle and horses, like seeds in the bowels of the earth,
an indefinite period.

Any sportiveness in cattle is unexpected. I saw one day a herd of a dozen
bullocks and cows running about and frisking in unwieldly sport, like huge
rats, even like kittens. They shook their heads, raised their tails, and
rushed up and down a hill, and I perceived by their horns, as well as by
their activity, their relation to the deer tribe. But, alas! a sudden loud
_Whoa_! would have damped their ardor at once, reduced them from venison
to beef, and stiffened their sides and sinews like the locomotive. Who but
the Evil One has cried, "Whoa!" to mankind? Indeed, the life of cattle,
like that of many men, is but a sort of locomotiveness; they move a side
at a time, and man, by his machinery, is meeting the horse and the ox
half-way. Whatever part the whip has touched is thenceforth palsied. Who
would ever think of a _side_ of any of the supple cat tribe, as we speak
of a _side_ of beef?

I rejoice that horses and steers have to be broken before they can be made
the slaves of men, and that men themselves have some, wild oats still left
to sow before they become submissive members of society. Undoubtedly, all
men are not equally fit subjects for civilization; and because the
majority, like dogs and sheep, are tame by inherited disposition, this is
no reason why the others should have their natures broken that they may be
reduced to the same level. Men are in the main alike, but they were made
several in order that they might be various. If a low use is to be served,
one man will do nearly or quite as well as another; if a high one,
individual excellence is to be regarded. Any man can stop a hole to keep
the wind away, but no other man could serve so rare a use as the author of
this illustration did. Confucius says,--"The skins of the tiger and the
leopard, when they are tanned, are as the skins of the dog and the sheep
tanned." But it is not the part of a true culture to tame tigers, any more
than it is to make sheep ferocious; and tanning their skins for shoes is
not the best use to which they can be put.

When looking over a list of men's names in a foreign language, as of
military officers, or of authors who have written on a particular subject,
I am reminded once more that there is nothing in a name. The name
Menschikoff, for instance, has nothing in it to my ears more human than a
whisker, and it may belong to a rat. As the names of the Poles and
Russians are to us, so are ours to them. It is as if they had been named
by the child's rigmarole,--_Iery wiery ichery van, tittle-tol-tan._ I see
in my mind a herd of wild creatures swarming over the earth, and to each
the herdsman has affixed some barbarous sound in his own dialect. The
names of men are of course as cheap and meaningless as _Bose_ and _Tray_,
the names of dogs.

Methinks it would be some advantage to philosophy, if men were named
merely in the gross, as they are known. It would be necessary only to know
the genus and perhaps the race or variety, to know the individual. We are
not prepared to believe that every private soldier in a Roman army had a
name of his own,--because we have not supposed that he had a character of
his own. At present our only true names are nicknames. I knew a boy who,
from his peculiar energy, was called "Buster" by his playmates, and this
rightly supplanted his Christian name. Some travellers tell us that an
Indian had no name given him at first, but earned it, and his name was his
fame; and among some tribes he acquired a new name with every new exploit.
It is pitiful when a man bears a name for convenience merely, who has
earned neither name nor fame.

I will not allow mere names to make distinctions for me, but still see men
in herds for all them. A familiar name cannot make a man less strange to
me. It may be given to a savage who retains in secret his own wild title
earned in the woods. We have a wild savage in us, and a savage name is
perchance somewhere recorded as ours. I see that my neighbor, who bears
the familiar epithet William, or Edwin, takes it off with his jacket. It
does not adhere to him when asleep or in anger, or aroused by any passion
or inspiration. I seem to hear pronounced by some of his kin at such a
time his original wild name in some jaw-breaking or else melodious tongue.

Here is this vast, savage, howling mother of ours, Nature, lying all
around, with such beauty, and such affection for her children, as the
leopard; and yet we are so early weaned from her breast to society, to
that culture which is exclusively an interaction of man on man,--a sort of
breeding in and in, which produces at most a merely English nobility, a
civilization destined to have a speedy limit.

In society, in the best institutions of men, it is easy to detect a
certain precocity. When we should still be growing children, we are
already little men. Give me a culture which imports much muck from the
meadows, and deepens the soil,--not that which trusts to heating manures,
and improved implements and modes of culture only!

Many a poor sore-eyed student that I have heard of would grow faster, both
intellectually and physically, if, instead of sitting up so very late, he
honestly slumbered a fool's allowance.

There may be an excess even of informing light. Niépce, a Frenchman,
discovered "actinism," that power in the sun's rays which produces a
chemical effect,--that granite rocks, and stone structures, and statues of
metal, "are all alike destructively acted upon during the hours of
sunshine, and, but for provisions of Nature no less wonderful, would soon
perish under the delicate touch of the most subtile of the agencies of
the universe." But he observed that "those bodies which underwent this
change during the daylight possessed the power of restoring themselves to
their original conditions during the hours of night, when this excitement
was no-longer influencing them." Hence it has been inferred that "the
hours of darkness are as necessary to the inorganic creation as we know
night and sleep are to the organic kingdom." Not even does the moon shine
every night, but gives place to darkness.

I would not have every man nor every part of a man cultivated, any more
than I would have every acre of earth cultivated: part will be tillage,
but the greater part will be meadow and forest, not only serving an
immediate use, but preparing a mould against a distant future, by the
annual decay of the vegetation which it supports.

There are other letters for the child to learn than those which Cadmus
invented. The Spaniards have a good term to express this wild and dusky
knowledge,--_Gramática parda_, tawny grammar,--a kind of mother-wit
derived from that same leopard to which I have referred.

We have heard of a Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge. It is
said that knowledge is power; and the like. Methinks there is equal need
of a Society for the Diffusion of Useful Ignorance, what we will call
Beautiful Knowledge, a knowledge useful in a higher sense: for what is
most of our boasted so-called knowledge but a conceit that we know
something, which robs us of the advantage of our actual ignorance? What we
call knowledge is often our positive ignorance; ignorance our negative
knowledge. By long years of patient industry and reading of the
newspapers,--for what are the libraries of science but files of
newspapers?--a man accumulates a myriad facts, lays them up in his memory,
and then when in some spring of his life he saunters abroad into the Great
Fields of thought, he, as it were, goes to grass like a horse, and leaves
all his harness behind in the stable. I would say to the Society for the
Diffusion of Useful Knowledge, sometimes,--Go to grass. You have eaten hay
long enough. The spring has come with its green crop. The very cows are
driven to their country pastures before the end of May; though I have
heard of one unnatural farmer who kept his cow in the barn and fed her on
hay all the year round. So, frequently, the Society for the Diffusion of
Useful Knowledge treats its cattle.

A man's ignorance sometimes is not only useful, but beautiful,--while his
knowledge, so called, is oftentimes worse than useless, besides being
ugly. Which is the best man to deal with,--he who knows nothing about a
subject, and, what is extremely rare, knows that he knows nothing, or he
who really knows something about it, but thinks that he knows all?

My desire for knowledge is intermittent; but my desire to bathe my head in
atmospheres unknown to my feet is perennial and constant. The highest that
we can attain to is not Knowledge, but Sympathy with Intelligence. I do
not know that this higher knowledge amounts to anything more definite than
a novel and grand surprise on a sudden revelation of the insufficiency of
all that we called Knowledge before,--a discovery that there are more
things in heaven and earth than are dreamed of in our philosophy. It is
the lighting up of the mist by the sun. Man cannot _know_ in any higher
sense than this, any more than he can look serenely and with impunity in
the face of sun: [Greek: 'Os thi noon, ou keiuou uoaeseis],--"You will not
perceive that, as perceiving a particular thing," say the Chaldean
Oracles.

There is something servile in the habit of seeking after a law which we
may obey. We may study the laws of matter at and for our convenience, but
a successful life knows no law. It is an unfortunate discovery certainly,
that of a law which binds us where we did not know before that we were
bound. Live free, child of the mist,--and with respect to knowledge we are
all children of the mist. The man who takes the liberty to live is
superior to all the laws, by virtue of his relation to the law-maker.
"That is active duty," says the Vishnu Parana, "which is not for our
bondage; that is knowledge which is for our liberation: all other duty is
good only unto weariness; all other knowledge is only the cleverness of an
artist."

       *       *       *       *       *

It is remarkable how few events or crises there are in our histories; how
little exercised we have been in our minds; how few experiences we have
had. I would fain be assured that I am growing apace and rankly, though my
very growth disturb this dull equanimity,--though it be with struggle
through long, dark, muggy nights or seasons of gloom. It would be well, if
all our lives were a divine tragedy even, instead of this trivial comedy
or farce. Dante, Bunyan, and others, appear to have been exercised in
their minds more than we: they were subjected to a kind of culture such as
our district schools and colleges do not contemplate. Even Mahomet, though
many may scream at his name, had a good deal more to live for, ay, and to
die for, than they have commonly.

When, at rare intervals, some thought visits one, as perchance he is
walking on a railroad, then indeed the cars go by without his hearing
them. But soon, by some inexorable law, our life goes by and the cars
return.

  "Gentle breeze, that wanderest unseen,
   And bendest the thistles round Loira of storms,
   Traveller of the windy glens,
   Why hast thou left my ear so soon?"

While almost all men feel an attraction drawing them to society, few are
attracted strongly to Nature. In their relation to Nature men appear to me
for the most part, notwithstanding their arts, lower than the animals. It
is not often a beautiful relation, as in the case of the animals. How
little appreciation of the beauty of the landscape there is among us! We
have to be told that the Greeks called the world [Greek: Kosmos], Beauty,
or Order, but we do not see clearly why they did so, and we esteem it at
best only a curious philological fact.

For my part, I feel that with regard to Nature I live a sort of border
life, on the confines of a world into which I make occasional and
transional and transient forays only, and my patriotism and allegiance
to the State into whose territories I seem to retreat are those of a
moss-trooper. Unto a life which I call natural I would gladly follow even
a will-o'-the-wisp through bogs and sloughs unimaginable, but no moon nor
fire-fly has shown me the causeway to it. Nature is a personality so vast
and universal that we have never seen one of her features. The walker in
the familiar fields which stretch around my native town sometimes finds
himself in another land than is described in their owners' deeds, as it
were in some far-away field on the confines of the actual Concord, where
her jurisdiction ceases, and the idea which the word Concord suggests
ceases to be suggested. These farms which I have myself surveyed, these
bounds which I have set up, appear dimly still as through a mist; but they
have no chemistry to fix them; they fade from the surface of the glass;
and the picture which the painter painted stands out dimly from beneath.
The world with which we are commonly acquainted leaves no trace, and it
will have no anniversary.

I took a walk on Spaulding's Farm the other afternoon. I saw the setting
sun lighting up the opposite side of a stately pine wood. Its golden rays
straggled into the aisles of the wood as into some noble hall. I was
impressed as if some ancient and altogether admirable and shining family
had settled there in that part of the land called Concord, unknown to
me,--to whom the sun was servant,--who had not gone into society in
the village,--who had not been called on. I saw their park, their
pleasure-ground, beyond through the wood, in Spaulding's cranberry-meadow.
The pines furnished them with gables as they grew. Their house was not
obvious, to vision; the trees grew through it. I do not know whether I
heard the sounds of a suppressed hilarity or not. They seemed to recline
on the sunbeams. They have sons and daughters. They are quite well. The
farmer's cart-path, which leads directly through their hall, does not in
the least put them out,--as the muddy bottom of a pool is sometimes seen
through the reflected skies. They never heard of Spaulding, and do not
know that he is their neighbor,--notwithstanding I heard him whistle as he
drove his team through the house. Nothing can equal the serenity of their
lives. Their coat of arms is simply a lichen. I saw it painted on the
pines and oaks. Their attics were in the tops of the trees. They are of no
politics. There was no noise of labor. I did not perceive that they were
weaving or spinning. Yet I did detect, when the wind lulled and hearing
was done away, the finest imaginable sweet musical hum,--as of a distant
hive in May, which perchance was the sound of their thinking. They had no
idle thoughts, and no one without could see their work, for their industry
was not as in knots and excrescences embayed.

But I find it difficult to remember them. They fade irrevocably out of my
mind even now while I speak and endeavor to recall them, and recollect
myself. It is only after a long and serious effort to recollect my best
thoughts that I become again aware of their cohabitancy. If it were not
for such families as this, I think I should move out of Concord.

       *       *       *       *       *

We are accustomed to say in New England that few and fewer pigeons visit
us every year. Our forests furnish no mast for them. So, it would seem,
few and fewer thoughts visit each growing man from year to year, for the
grove in our minds is laid waste,--sold to feed unnecessary fires of
ambition, or sent to mill, and there is scarcely a twig left for them to
perch on. They no longer build nor breed with us. In some more genial
season, perchance, a faint shadow flits across the landscape of the mind,
cast by the _wings_ of some thought in its vernal or autumnal migration,
but, looking up, we are unable to detect the substance of the thought
itself. Our winged thoughts are turned to poultry. They no longer soar,
and they attain only to a Shanghai and Cochin-China grandeur. Those
_gra-a-ate thoughts_, those _gra-a-ate men_ you hear of!

       *       *       *       *       *

We hug the earth,--how rarely we mount! Methinks we might elevate
ourselves a little more. We might climb a tree, at least. I found my
account in climbing a tree once. It was a tall white pine, on the top of a
hill; and though I got well pitched, I was well paid for it, for I
discovered new mountains in the horizon which I had never seen before,--so
much more of the earth and the heavens. I might have walked about the foot
of the tree for threescore years and ten, and yet I certainly should never
have seen them. But, above all, I discovered around me,--it was near the
end of June,--on the ends of the topmost branches only, a few minute and
delicate red cone-like blossoms, the fertile flower of the white pine
looking heavenward. I carried straightway to the village the topmost
spire, and showed it to stranger jurymen who walked the streets,--for it
was court-week,--and to farmers and lumber-dealers and wood-choppers and
hunters, and not one had ever seen the like before, but they wondered as
at a star dropped down. Tell of ancient architects finishing their works
on the tops of columns as perfectly as on the lower and more visible
parts! Nature has from the first expanded the minute blossoms of the
forest only toward the heavens, above men's heads and unobserved by them.
We see only the flowers that are under our feet in the meadows. The pines
have developed their delicate blossoms on the highest twigs of the wood
every summer for ages, as well over the heads of Nature's red children as
of her white ones; yet scarcely a farmer or hunter in the land has ever
seen them.

       *       *       *       *       *

Above all, we cannot afford not to live in the present. He is blessed over
all mortals who loses no moment of the passing life in remembering the
past. Unless our philosophy hears the cock crow in every barn-yard within
our horizon, it is belated. That sound commonly reminds us that we are
growing rusty and antique in our employments and habits of thought. His
philosophy comes down to a more recent time than ours. There is something
suggested by it that is a newer testament,--the gospel according to this
moment. He has not fallen astern; he has got up early, and kept up early,
and to be where he is to be in season, in the foremost rank of time. It is
an expression of the health and soundness of Nature, a brag for all the
world,--healthiness as of a spring burst forth, a new fountain of the
Muses, to celebrate this last instant of time. Where he lives no fugitive
slave laws are passed. Who has not betrayed his master many times since
last he heard that note?

The merit of this bird's strain is in its freedom from all plaintiveness.
The singer can easily move us to tears or to laughter, but where is he who
can excite in us a pure morning joy? When, in doleful dumps, breaking the
awful stillness of our wooden sidewalk on a Sunday, or, perchance, a
watcher in the house of mourning, I hear a cockerel crow far or near, I
think to myself, "There is one of us well, at any rate,"--and with a
sudden gush return to my senses.

We had a remarkable sunset one day last November. I was walking in a
meadow, the source of a small brook, when the sun at last, just before
setting, after a cold gray day, reached a clear stratum in the horizon,
and the softest, brightest morning sunlight fell on the dry grass and on
the stems of the trees in the opposite horizon, and on the leaves of the
shrub-oaks on the hill-side, while our shadows stretched long over the
meadow eastward, as if we were the only motes in its beams. It was such a
light as we could not have imagined a moment before, and the air also was
so warm and serene that nothing was wanting to make a paradise of that
meadow. When we reflected that this was not a solitary phenomenon, never
to happen again, but that it would happen forever and ever an infinite
number of evenings, and cheer and reassure the latest child that walked
there, it was more glorious still.

The sun sets on some retired meadow, where no house is visible, with all
the glory and splendor that it lavishes on cities, and perchance, as it
has never set before,--where there is but a solitary marsh-hawk to have
his wings gilded by it, or only a musquash looks out from his cabin, and
there is some little black-veined brook in the midst of the marsh, just
beginning to meander, winding slowly round a decaying stump. We walked in
so pure and bright a light, gilding the withered grass and leaves, so
softly and serenely bright, I thought I had never bathed in such a golden
flood, without a ripple or a murmur to it. The west side of every wood and
rising ground gleamed like the boundary of Elysium, and the sun on our
backs seemed like a gentle herdsman driving us home at evening.

So we saunter toward the Holy Land, till one day the sun shall shine more
brightly than ever he has done, shall perchance shine into our minds and
hearts, and light up our whole lives with a great awakening light, as warm
and serene and golden as on a bank-side in autumn.



AUTUMNAL TINTS.

[1862.]


Europeans coming to America are surprised by the brilliancy of our
autumnal foliage. There is no account of such a phenomenon in English
poetry, because the trees acquire but few bright colors there. The most
that Thomson says on this subject in his "Autumn" is contained in the
lines,--

  "But see the fading many-colored woods,
   Shade deepening over shade, the country round
   Imbrown; a crowded umbrage, dusk and dun,
   Of every hue, from wan declining green to sooty dark":--

and in the line in which he speaks of

         "Autumn beaming o'er the yellow woods."

The autumnal change of our woods has not made a deep impression on our own
literature yet. October has hardly tinged our poetry.

A great many, who have spent their lives in cities, and have never chanced
to come into the country at this season, have never seen this, the flower,
or rather the ripe fruit, of the year. I remember riding with one such
citizen, who, though a fortnight too, late for the most brilliant tints,
was taken by surprise, and would not believe that there had been any
brighter. He had never heard of this phenomenon before. Not only many in
our towns have never witnessed it, but it is scarcely remembered by the
majority from year to year.

Most appear to confound changed leaves with withered ones, as if they were
to confound ripe apples with rotten ones. I think that the change to some
higher color in a leaf is an evidence that it has arrived at a late and
perfect maturity, answering to the maturity of fruits. It is generally the
lowest and oldest leaves which change first. But as the perfect winged and
usually bright-colored insect is short-lived, so the leaves ripen but to
fall.

Generally, every fruit, on ripening, and just before it falls, when it
commences a more independent and individual existence, requiring less
nourishment from any source, and that not so much from the earth through
its stem as from the sun and air, acquires a bright tint. So do leaves.
The physiologist says it is "due to an increased absorption of oxygen."
That is the scientific account of the matter,--only a reassertion of the
fact. But I am more interested in the rosy cheek than I am to know what
particular diet the maiden fed on. The very forest and herbage, the
pellicle of the earth, must acquire a bright color, an evidence of its
ripeness,--as if the globe itself were a fruit on its stem, with ever a
cheek toward the sun.

Flowers are but colored leaves, fruits but ripe ones. The edible part of
most fruits is, as the physiologist says, "the parenchyma or fleshy tissue
of the leaf," of which they are formed.

Our appetites have commonly confined our views of ripeness and its
phenomena, color, mellowness, and perfectness, to the fruits which we eat,
and we are wont to forget that an immense harvest which we do not eat,
hardly use at all, is annually ripened by Nature. At our annual Cattle
Shows and Horticultural Exhibitions, we make, as we think, a great show of
fair fruits, destined, however, to a rather ignoble end, fruits not valued
for their beauty chiefly. But round about and within our towns there is
annually another show of fruits, on an infinitely grander scale, fruits
which address our taste for beauty alone.

October is the month for painted leaves. Their rich glow now flashes round
the world. As fruits and leaves and the day itself acquire a bright tint
just before they fall, so the year near its setting. October is its sunset
sky; November the later twilight.

I formerly thought that it would be worth the while to get a specimen leaf
from each changing tree, shrub, and herbaceous plant, when it had acquired
its brightest characteristic color, in its transition from the green to
the brown state, outline it, and copy its color exactly, with paint in a
book, which should be entitled, "_October, or Autumnal Tints_";--beginning
with the earliest reddening,--Woodbine and the lake of radical leaves, and
coming down through the Maples, Hickories, and Sumachs, and many
beautifully freckled leaves less generally known, to the latest Oaks and
Aspens. What a memento such a book would be! You would need only to turn
over its leaves to take a ramble through the autumn woods whenever you
pleased. Or if I could preserve the leaves themselves, unfaded, it would
be better still. I have made but little progress toward such a book, but I
have endeavored, instead, to describe all these bright tints in the order
in which they present themselves. The following are some extracts from my
notes.

THE PURPLE GRASSES.

By the twentieth of August, everywhere in woods and swamps, we are
reminded of the fall, both by the richly spotted Sarsaparilla-leaves and
Brakes, and the withering and blackened Skunk-Cabbage and Hellebore, and,
by the river-side, the already blackening Pontederia.

The Purple Grass (_Eragrostis pectinacea_) is now in the height of its
beauty. I remember still when I first noticed this grass particularly.
Standing on a hillside near our river, I saw, thirty or forty rods off, a
stripe of purple half a dozen rods long, under the edge of a wood, where
the ground sloped toward a meadow. It was as high-colored and interesting,
though not quite so bright, as the patches of Rhexia, being a darker
purple, like a berry's stain laid on close and thick. On going to and
examining it, I found it to be a kind of grass in bloom, hardly a foot
high, with but few green blades, and a fine spreading panicle of purple
flowers, a shallow, purplish mist trembling around me. Close at hand it
appeared but a dull purple, and made little impression on the eye; it was
even difficult to detect; and if you plucked a single plant, you were
surprised to find how thin it was, and how little color it had. But viewed
at a distance in a favorable light, it was of a fine lively purple,
flower-like, enriching the earth. Such puny causes combine to produce
these decided effects. I was the more surprised and charmed because grass
is commonly of a sober and humble color.

With its beautiful purple blush it reminds me, and supplies the place, of
the Rhexia, which is now leaving off, and it is one of the most
interesting phenomena of August. The finest patches of it grow on waste
strips or selvages of land at the base of dry hills, just above the edge
of the meadows, where the greedy mower does not deign to swing his scythe;
for this is a thin and poor grass, beneath his notice. Or, it may be,
because it is so beautiful he does not know that it exists; for the same
eye does not see this and Timothy. He carefully gets the meadow hay and
the more nutritious grasses which grow next to that, but he leaves this
fine purple mist for the walker's harvest,--fodder for his fancy stock.
Higher up the hill, perchance, grow also Blackberries, John's-Wort, and
neglected, withered, and wiry June-Grass. How fortunate that it grows in
such places, and not in the midst of the rank grasses which are annually
cut! Nature thus keeps use and beauty distinct. I know many such
localities, where it does not fail to present itself annually, and paint
the earth with its blush. It grows on the gentle slopes, either in a
continuous patch or in scattered and rounded tufts a foot in diameter, and
it lasts till it is killed by the first smart frosts.

In most plants the corolla or calyx is the part which attains the highest
color, and is the most attractive; in many it is the seed-vessel or fruit;
in others, as the Red Maple, the leaves; and in others still it is the
very culm itself which is the principal flower or blooming part.

The last is especially the case with the Poke or Garget (_Phytolacca
decandra_). Some which stand under our cliffs quite dazzle me with their
purple stems now and early in September. They are as interesting to me as
most flowers, and one of the most important fruits of our autumn. Every
part is flower, (or fruit,) such is its superfluity of color,--stem,
branch, peduncle, pedicel, petiole, and even the at length yellowish
purple-veined leaves. Its cylindrical racemes of berries of various hues,
from green to dark purple, six or seven inches long, are gracefully
drooping on all sides, offering repasts to the birds; and even the sepals
from which the birds have picked the berries are a brilliant lake-red,
with crimson flame-like reflections, equal to anything of the kind,--all
on fire with ripeness. Hence the _lacca_, from _lac_, lake. There are at
the same time flower-buds, flowers, green berries, dark purple or ripe
ones, and these flower-like sepals, all on the same plant.

We love to see any redness in the vegetation of the temperate zone. It is
the color of colors. This plant speaks to our blood. It asks a bright sun
on it to make it show to best advantage, and it must be seen at this
season of the year. On warm hillsides its stems are ripe by the
twenty-third of August. At that date I walked through a beautiful grove of
them, six or seven feet high, on the side of one of our cliffs, where they
ripen early. Quite to the ground they were a deep brilliant purple with a
bloom, contrasting with the still clear green leaves. It appears a rare
triumph of Nature to have produced and perfected such a plant, as if this
were enough for a summer. What a perfect maturity it arrives at! It is the
emblem of a successful life concluded by a death not premature, which is
an ornament to Nature. What if we were to mature as perfectly, root and
branch, glowing in the midst of our decay, like the Poke! I confess that
it excites me to behold them. I cut one for a cane, for I would fain
handle and lean on it. I love to press the berries between my fingers, and
see their juice staining my hand. To walk amid these upright, branching
casks of purple wine, which retain and diffuse a sunset glow, tasting each
one with your eye, instead of counting the pipes on a London dock, what a
privilege! For Nature's vintage is not confined to the vine. Our poets
have sung of wine, the product of a foreign plant which commonly they
never saw, as if our own plants had no juice in them more than the
singers. Indeed, this has been called by some the American Grape, and,
though a native of America, its juices are used in some foreign countries
to improve the color of the wine; so that the poetaster may be celebrating
the virtues of the Poke without knowing it. Here are berries enough to
paint afresh the western sky, and play the bacchanal with, if you will.
And what flutes its ensanguined stems would make, to be used in such a
dance! It is truly a royal plant. I could spend the evening of the year
musing amid the Poke-stems. And perchance amid these groves might arise at
last a new school of philosophy or poetry. It lasts all through September.

At the same time with this, or near the end of August, a to me very
interesting genus of grasses, Andropogons, or Beard-Grasses, is in
its prime. _Andropogon furcatus_, Forked Beard-Grass, or call it
Purple-Fingered Grass; _Andropogon scoparius,_ Purple Wood Grass; and
_Andropogon_ (now called _Sorghum_) _nutans_, Indian-Grass. The first is a
very tall and slender-culmed grass, three to seven feet high, with four or
five purple finger-like spikes raying upward from the top. The second is
also quite slender, growing in tufts two feet high by one wide, with culms
often somewhat curving, which, as the spikes go out of bloom, have a
whitish fuzzy look. These two are prevailing grasses at this season on
dry and sandy fields and hillsides. The culms of both, not to mention
their pretty flowers, reflect a purple tinge, and help to declare the
ripeness of the year. Perhaps I have the more sympathy with them because
they are despised by the farmer, and occupy sterile and neglected soil.
They are high-colored, like ripe grapes, and express a maturity which the
spring did not suggest. Only the August sun could have thus burnished
these culms and leaves. The farmer has long since done his upland haying,
and he will not condescend to bring his scythe to where these slender wild
grasses have at length flowered thinly; you often see spaces of bare sand
amid them. But I walk encouraged between the tufts of Purple Wood-Grass,
over the sandy fields, and along the edge of the Shrub-Oaks, glad to
recognize these simple contemporaries. With thoughts cutting a broad
swathe I "get" them, with horse-raking thoughts I gather them into
windrows. The fine-eared poet may hear the whetting of my scythe. These
two were almost the first grasses that I learned to distinguish, for I had
not known by how many friends I was surrounded,--I had seen them simply as
grasses standing. The purple of their culms also excites me like that of
the Poke-Weed stems.

Think what refuge there is for one, before August is over, from college
commencements and society that isolates! I can skulk amid the tufts
of Purple Wood-Grass on the borders of the "Great Fields." Wherever I
walk these afternoons, the Purple-Fingered Grass also stands like a
guide-board, and points my thoughts to more poetic paths than they have
lately travelled.

A man shall perhaps rush by and trample down plants as high as his head,
and cannot be said to know that they exist, though he may have cut many
tons of them, littered his stables with them, and fed them to his cattle
for years. Yet, if he ever favorably attends to them, he may be overcome
by their beauty. Each humblest plant, or weed, as we call it, stands there
to express some thought or mood of ours; and yet how long it stands in
vain! I had walked over those Great Fields so many Augusts, and never yet
distinctly recognized these purple companions that I had there. I had
brushed against them and trodden on them, forsooth; and now, at last,
they, as it were, rose up and blessed me. Beauty and true wealth are
always thus cheap and despised. Heaven might be defined as the place which
men avoid. Who can doubt that these grasses, which the farmer says are of
no account to him, find some compensation in your appreciation of them? I
may say that I never saw them before,--though, when I came to look them
face to face, there did come down to me a purple gleam from previous
years; and now, wherever I go, I see hardly anything else. It is the reign
and presidency of the Andropogons.

Almost the very sands confess the ripening influence of the August sun,
and methinks, together with the slender grasses waving over them, reflect
a purple tinge. The impurpled sands! Such is the consequence of all this
sunshine absorbed into the pores of plants and of the earth. All sap or
blood is now wine-colored. At last we have not only the purple sea, but
the purple land.

The Chestnut Beard-Grass, Indian-Grass, or Wood-Grass, growing here and
there in waste places, but more rare than the former, (from two to four or
five feet high,) is still handsomer and of more vivid colors than its
congeners, and might well have caught the Indian's eye. It has a long,
narrow, one-sided, and slightly nodding panicle of bright purple and
yellow flowers, like a banner raised above its reedy leaves. These bright
standards are now advanced on the distant hill-sides, not in large armies,
but in scattered troops or single file, like the red men. They stand thus
fair and bright, representative of the race which they are named after,
but for the most part unobserved as they. The expression of this grass
haunted me for a week, after I first passed and noticed it, like the
glance of an eye. It stands like an Indian chief taking a last look at his
favorite hunting-grounds.

THE RED MAPLE.

By the twenty-fifth of September, the Red Maples generally are beginning
to be ripe. Some large ones have been conspicuously changing for a week,
and some single trees are now very brilliant. I notice a small one, half a
mile off across a meadow, against the green wood-side there, a far
brighter red than the blossoms of any tree in summer, and more
conspicuous. I have observed this tree for several autumns invariably
changing earlier than its fellows, just as one tree ripens its fruit
earlier than another. It might serve to mark the season, perhaps. I should
be sorry, if it were cut down. I know of two or three such trees in
different parts of our town, which might, perhaps, be propagated from, as
early ripeners or September trees, and their seed be advertised in the
market, as well as that of radishes, if we cared as much about them.

At present these burning bushes stand chiefly along the edge of the
meadows, or I distinguish them afar on the hillsides here and there.
Sometimes you will see many small ones in a swamp turned quite crimson
when all other trees around are still perfectly green, and the former
appear so much the brighter for it. They take you by surprise, as you are
going by on one side, across the fields, thus early in the season, as if
it were some gay encampment of the red men, or other foresters, of whose
arrival you had not heard.

Some single trees, wholly bright scarlet, seen against others of their
kind still freshly green, or against evergreens, are more memorable than
whole groves will be by-and-by. How beautiful, when a whole tree is like
one great scarlet fruit full of ripe juices, every leaf, from lowest limb
to topmost spire, all aglow, especially if you look toward the sun! What
more remarkable object can there be in the landscape? Visible for miles,
too fair to be believed. If such a phenomenon occurred but once, it would
be handed down by tradition to posterity, and get into the mythology at
last.

The whole tree thus ripening in advance of its fellows attains a singular
preeminence, and sometimes maintains it for a week or two. I am thrilled
at the sight of it, bearing aloft its scarlet standard for the regiment of
green-clad foresters around, and I go half a mile out of my way to examine
it. A single tree becomes thus the crowning beauty of some meadowy vale,
and the expression of the whole surrounding forest is at once more
spirited for it.

A small Red Maple has grown, perchance, far away at the head of some
retired valley, a mile from any road, unobserved. It has faithfully
discharged the duties of a Maple there, all winter and summer, neglected
none of its economies, but added to its stature in the virtue which
belongs to a Maple, by a steady growth for so many months, never having
gone gadding abroad, and is nearer heaven than it was in the spring.
It has faithfully husbanded its sap, and afforded a shelter to the
wandering bird, has long since ripened its seeds and committed them to
the winds, and has the satisfaction of knowing, perhaps, that a thousand
little well-behaved Maples are already settled in life somewhere.
It deserves well of Mapledom. Its leaves have been asking it from time
to time, in a whisper, "When shall we redden?" And now, in this month
of September, this month of travelling, when men are hastening to the
sea-side, or the mountains, or the lakes, this modest Maple, still without
budging an inch, travels in its reputation,--runs up its scarlet flag on
that hillside, which shows that it has finished its summer's work before
all other trees, and withdraws from the contest. At the eleventh hour of
the year, the tree which no scrutiny could have detected here when it was
most industrious is thus, by the tint of its maturity, by its very
blushes, revealed at last to the careless and distant traveller, and leads
his thoughts away from the dusty road into those brave solitudes which it
inhabits. It flashes out conspicuous with all the virtue and beauty of a
Maple,--_Acer rubrum_. We may now read its title, or _rubric_, clear. Its
_virtues_, not its sins, are as scarlet.

Notwithstanding the Red Maple is the most intense scarlet of any of our
trees, the Sugar-Maple has been the most celebrated, and Michaux in his
"Sylva" does not speak of the autumnal color of the former. About the
second of October, these trees, both large and small, are most brilliant,
though many are still green. In "sprout-lands" they seem to vie with one
another, and ever some particular one in the midst of the crowd will be of
a peculiarly pure scarlet, and by its more intense color attract our eye
even at a distance, and carry off the palm. A large Red-Maple swamp, when
at the height of its change, is the most obviously brilliant of all
tangible things, where I dwell, so abundant is this tree with us. It
varies much both in form and color. A great many are merely yellow, more
scarlet, others scarlet deepening into crimson, more red than common. Look
at yonder swamp of Maples mixed with Pines, at the base of a Pine-clad
hill, a quarter of a mile off, so that you get the full effect of the
bright colors, without detecting the imperfections of the leaves, and see
their yellow, scarlet, and crimson fires, of all tints, mingled and
contrasted with the green. Some Maples are yet green, only yellow or
crimson-tipped on the edges of their flakes, like the edges of a Hazel-Nut
burr; some are wholly brilliant scarlet, raying out regularly and finely
every way, bilaterally, like the veins of a leaf; others, of more
irregular form, when I turn my head slightly, emptying out some of its
earthiness and concealing the trunk of the tree, seem to rest heavily
flake on flake, like yellow and scarlet clouds, wreath upon wreath, or
like snowdrifts driving through the air, stratified by the wind. It adds
greatly to the beauty of such a swamp at this season, that, even though
there may be no other trees interspersed, it is not seen as a simple mass
of color, but, different trees being of different colors and hues, the
outline of each crescent tree-top is distinct, and where one laps on to
another. Yet a painter would hardly venture to make them thus distinct a
quarter of a mile off.

As I go across a meadow directly toward a low rising ground this bright
afternoon, I see, some fifty rods off toward the sun, the top of a Maple
swamp just appearing over the sheeny russet edge of the hill, a stripe
apparently twenty rods long by ten feet deep, of the most intensely
brilliant scarlet, orange, and yellow, equal to any flowers or fruits, or
any tints ever painted. As I advance, lowering the edge of the hill which
makes the firm foreground or lower frame of the picture, the depth of the
brilliant grove revealed steadily increases, suggesting that the whole of
the inclosed valley is filled with such color. One wonders that the
tithing-men and fathers of the town are not out to see what the trees mean
by their high colors and exuberance of spirits, fearing that some mischief
is brewing. I do not see what the Puritans did at this season, when the
Maples blaze out in scarlet. They certainly could not have worshipped in
groves then. Perhaps that is what they built meeting-houses and fenced
them round with horse-sheds for.

THE ELM.

Now, too, the first of October, or later, the Elms are at the height of
their autumnal beauty, great brownish-yellow masses, warm from their
September oven, hanging over the highway Their leaves are perfectly ripe.
I wonder if there is any answering ripeness in the lives of the men who
live beneath them. As I look down our street, which is lined with them,
they remind me both by their form and color of yellowing sheaves of grain,
as if the harvest had indeed come to the village itself, and we might
expect to find some maturity and _flavor_ in the thoughts of the villagers
at last. Under those bright rustling yellow piles just ready to fall on
the heads of the walkers, how can any crudity or greenness of thought or
act prevail? When I stand where half a dozen large Elms droop over a
house, it is as if I stood within a ripe pumpkin-rind, and I feel as
mellow as if I were the pulp, though I may be somewhat stringy and seedy
withal. What is the late greenness of the English Elm, like a cucumber out
of season, which does not know when to have done, compared with the early
and golden maturity of the American tree? The street is the scene of a
great harvest-home. It would be worth the while to set out these trees, if
only for their autumnal value. Think of these great yellow canopies or
parasols held over our heads and houses by the mile together, making the
village all one and compact,--an _ulmarium_, which is at the same time a
nursery of men! And then how gently and unobserved they drop their burden
and let in the sun when it is wanted, their leaves not heard when they
fall on our roofs and in our streets; and thus the village parasol is shut
up and put away! I see the market-man driving into the village, and
disappearing under its canopy of Elm-tops, with _his_ crop, as into a
great granary or barn-yard. I am tempted to go thither as to a husking of
thoughts, now dry and ripe, and ready to be separated from their
integuments; but, alas! I foresee that it will be chiefly husks and little
thought, blasted pig-corn, fit only for cob-meal,--for, as you sow, so
shall you reap.

FALLEN LEAVES.

By the sixth of October the leaves generally begin to fall, in successive
showers, after frost or rain; but the principal leaf-harvest, the acme of
the _Fall_, is commonly about the sixteenth. Some morning at that date
there is perhaps a harder frost than we have seen, and ice formed under
the pump, and now, when the morning wind rises, the leaves come down in
denser showers than ever. They suddenly form thick beds or carpets on the
ground, in this gentle air, or even without wind, just the size and form
of the tree above. Some trees, as small Hickories, appear to have dropped
their leaves instantaneously, as a soldier grounds arms at a signal; and
those of the Hickory, being bright yellow still, though withered, reflect
a blaze of light from the ground where they lie. Down they have come on
all sides, at the first earnest touch of autumn's wand, making a sound
like rain.

Or else it is after moist and rainy weather that we notice how great a
fall of leaves there has been in the night, though it may not yet be the
touch that loosens the Rock-Maple leaf. The streets are thickly strewn
with the trophies, and fallen Elm-leaves make a dark brown pavement under
our feet. After some remarkably warm Indian-summer day or days, I perceive
that it is the unusual heat which, more than anything, causes the leaves
to fall, there having been, perhaps, no frost nor rain for some time. The
intense heat suddenly ripens and wilts them, just as it softens and ripens
peaches and other fruits, and causes them to drop.

The leaves of late Red Maples, still bright, strew the earth, often
crimson-spotted on a yellow ground, like some wild apples,--though they
preserve these bright colors on the ground but a day or two, especially
if it rains. On causeways I go by trees here and there all bare and
smoke-like, having lost their brilliant clothing; but there it lies,
nearly as bright as ever, on the ground on one side, and making nearly as
regular a figure as lately on the tree, I would rather say that I first
observe the trees thus flat on the ground like a permanent colored shadow,
and they suggest to look for the boughs that bore them. A queen might be
proud to walk where these gallant trees have spread their bright cloaks in
the mud. I see wagons roll over them as a shadow or a reflection, and the
drivers heed them just as little as they did their shadows before.

Birds'-nests, in the Huckleberry and other shrubs, and in trees, are
already being filled with the withered leaves. So many have fallen in the
woods, that a squirrel cannot run after a falling nut without being heard.
Boys are raking them in the streets, if only for the pleasure of dealing
with such clean crisp substances. Some sweep the paths scrupulously neat,
and then stand to see the next breath strew them with new trophies. The
swamp-floor is thickly covered, and the _Lycopodium lucidulum_ looks
suddenly greener amid them. In dense woods they half-cover pools that are
three or four rods long. The other day I could hardly find a well-known
spring, and even suspected that it had dried up, for it was completely
concealed by freshly fallen leaves; and when I swept them aside and
revealed it, it was like striking the earth, with Aaron's rod, for a new
spring. Wet grounds about the edges of swamps look dry with them. At one
swamp, where I was surveying, thinking to step on a leafy shore from a
rail, I got into the water more than a foot deep. When I go to the river
the day after the principal fall of leaves, the sixteenth, I find my boat
all covered, bottom and seats, with the leaves of the Golden Willow under
which it is moored, and I set sail with a cargo of them rustling under my
feet. If I empty it, it will be full again to-morrow. I do not regard them
as litter, to be swept out, but accept them as suitable straw or matting
for the bottom of my carriage. When I turn up into the mouth of the
Assabet, which is wooded, large fleets of leaves are floating on its
surface, as it were getting out to sea, with room to tack; but next the
shore, a little farther up, they are thicker than foam, quite concealing
the water for a rod in width, under and amid the Alders, Button-Bushes,
and Maples, still perfectly light and dry, with fibre unrelaxed; and at a
rocky bend where they are met and stopped by the morning wind, they
sometimes form a broad and dense crescent quite across the river. When I
turn my prow that way, and the wave which it makes strikes them, list what
a pleasant rustling from these dry substances grating on one another!
Often it is their undulation only which reveals the water beneath them.
Also every motion of the wood-turtle on the shore is betrayed by their
rustling there. Or even in mid-channel, when the wind rises, I hear them
blown with a rustling sound. Higher up they are slowly moving round and
round in some great eddy which the river makes, as that at the "Leaning
Hemlocks," where the water is deep, and the current is wearing into the
bank.

Perchance, in the afternoon of such a day, when the water is perfectly
calm and full of reflections, I paddle gently down the main stream, and,
turning up the Assabet, reach a quiet cove, where I unexpectedly find
myself surrounded by myriads of leaves, like fellow-voyagers, which seem
to have the same purpose, or want of purpose, with myself. See this great
fleet of scattered leaf-boats which we paddle amid, in this smooth
river-bay, each one curled up on every side by the sun's skill, each nerve
a stiff spruce-knee,--like boats of hide, and of all patterns, Charon's
boat probably among the rest, and some with lofty prows and poops, like
the stately vessels of the ancients, scarcely moving in the sluggish
current,--like the great fleets, the dense Chinese cities of boats, with
which you mingle on entering some great mart, some New York or Canton,
which we are all steadily approaching together. How gently each has been
deposited on the water! No violence has been used towards them yet,
though, perchance, palpitating hearts were present at the launching. And
painted ducks, too, the splendid wood-duck among the rest, often come to
sail and float amid the painted leaves,--barks of a nobler model still!

What wholesome herb-drinks are to be had in the swamps now! What strong
medicinal, but rich, scents from the decaying leaves! The rain falling on
the freshly dried herbs and leaves, and filling the pools and ditches into
which they have dropped thus clean and rigid, will soon convert them into
tea,--green, black, brown, and yellow teas, of all degrees of strength,
enough to set all Nature a gossiping. Whether we drink them or not, as
yet, before their strength is drawn, these leaves, dried on great Nature's
coppers, are of such various pure and delicate tints as might make the
fame of Oriental teas.

How they are mixed up, of all species, Oak and Maple and Chestnut and
Birch! But Nature is not cluttered with them; she is a perfect husbandman;
she stores them all. Consider what a vast crop is thus annually shed on
the earth! This, more than any mere grain or seed, is the great harvest of
the year. The trees are now repaying the earth with interest what they
have taken from it. They are discounting. They are about to add a leaf's
thickness to the depth of the soil. This is the beautiful way in which
Nature gets her muck, while I chaffer with this man and that, who talks to
me about sulphur and the cost of carting. We are all the richer for their
decay. I am more interested in this crop than in the English grass alone
or in the corn. It prepares the virgin mould for future cornfields and
forests, on which the earth fattens. It keeps our homestead in good heart.

For beautiful variety no crop can be compared with this. Here is not
merely the plain yellow of the grains, but nearly all the colors that we
know, the brightest blue not excepted: the early blushing Maple, the
Poison-Sumach blazing its sins as scarlet, the mulberry Ash, the rich
chrome-yellow of the Poplars, the brilliant red Huckleberry, with which
the hills' backs are painted, like those of sheep. The frost touches them,
and, with the slightest breath of returning day or jarring of earth's
axle, see in what showers they come floating down! The ground is all
party-colored with them. But they still live in the soil, whose fertility
and bulk they increase, and in the forests that spring from it. They stoop
to rise, to mount higher in coming years, by subtle chemistry, climbing by
the sap in the trees, and the sapling's first fruits thus shed, transmuted
at last, may adorn its crown, when, in after-years, it has become the
monarch of the forest.

It is pleasant to walk over the beds of these fresh, crisp, and rustling
leaves. How beautifully they go to their graves! how gently lay themselves
down and turn to mould!--painted of a thousand hues, and fit to make the
beds of us living. So they troop to their last resting-place, light and
frisky. They put on no weeds, but merrily they go scampering over the
earth, selecting the spot, choosing a lot, ordering no iron fence,
whispering all through the woods about it,--some choosing the spot where
the bodies of men are mouldering beneath, and meeting them half-way. How
many flutterings before they rest quietly in their graves! They that
soared so loftily, how contentedly they return to dust again, and are laid
low, resigned to lie and decay at the foot of the tree, and afford
nourishment to new generations of their kind, as well as to flutter on
high! They teach us how to die. One wonders if the time will ever come
when men, with their boasted faith in immortality, will lie down as
gracefully and as ripe,--with such an Indian-summer serenity will shed
their bodies, as they do their hair and nails.

When the leaves fall, the whole earth is a cemetery pleasant to walk in. I
love to wander and muse over them in their graves. Here are no lying nor
vain epitaphs. What though you own no lot at Mount Auburn? Your lot is
surely cast somewhere in this vast cemetery, which has been consecrated
from of old. You need attend no auction to secure a place. There is room
enough here. The Loose-strife shall bloom and the Huckleberry-bird sing
over your bones. The woodman and hunter shall be your sextons, and the
children shall tread upon the borders as much as they will. Let us walk in
the cemetery of the leaves,--this is your true Greenwood Cemetery.

THE SUGAR-MAPLE.

But think not that the splendor of the year is over; for as one leaf does
not make a summer, neither does one falling leaf make an autumn. The
smallest Sugar-Maples in our streets make a great show as early as the
fifth of October, more than any other trees there. As I look up the Main
Street, they appear like painted screens standing before the houses;
yet many are green. But now, or generally by the seventeenth of October,
when almost all Red Maples, and some White Maples, are bare, the large
Sugar-Maples also are in their glory, glowing with yellow and red, and
show unexpectedly bright and delicate tints. They are remarkable for the
contrast they often afford of deep blushing red on one half and green on
the other. They become at length dense masses of rich yellow with a deep
scarlet blush, or more than blush, on the exposed surfaces. They are the
brightest trees now in the street.

The large ones on our Common are particularly beautiful. A delicate, but
warmer than golden yellow is now the prevailing color, with scarlet
cheeks. Yet, standing on the east side of the Common just before sundown,
when the western light is transmitted through them, I see that their
yellow even, compared with the pale lemon yellow of an Elm close by,
amounts to a scarlet, without noticing the bright scarlet portions.
Generally, they are great regular oval masses of yellow and scarlet. All
the sunny warmth of the season, the Indian-summer, seems to be absorbed in
their leaves. The lowest and inmost leaves next the bole are, as usual, of
the most delicate yellow and green, like the complexion of young men
brought up in the house. There is an auction on the Common to-day, but its
red flag is hard to be discerned amid this blaze of color.

Little did the fathers of the town anticipate this brilliant success, when
they caused to be imported from farther in the country some straight poles
with their tops cut off, which they called Sugar-Maples; and, as I
remember, after they were set out, a neighboring merchant's clerk, by way
of jest, planted beans about them. Those which were then jestingly called
bean-poles are to-day far the most beautiful objects noticeable in our
streets. They are worth all and more than they have cost,--though one of
the selectmen, while setting them out, took the cold which occasioned his
death,--if only because they have filled the open eyes of children with
their rich color unstintedly so many Octobers. We will not ask them to
yield us sugar in the spring, while they afford us so fair a prospect in
the autumn. Wealth in-doors may be the inheritance of few, but it is
equally distributed on the Common. All children alike can revel in this
golden harvest.

Surely trees should be set in our streets with a view to their October
splendor; though I doubt whether this is ever considered by the "Tree
Society." Do you not think it will make some odds to these children that
they were brought up under the Maples? Hundreds of eyes are steadily
drinking in this color, and by these teachers even the truants are caught
and educated the moment they step abroad. Indeed, neither the truant nor
the studious is at present taught color in the schools. These are instead
of the bright colors in apothecaries' shops and city windows. It is a pity
that we have no more _Red_ Maples, and some Hickories, in our streets as
well. Our paint-box is very imperfectly filled. Instead of, or beside,
supplying such paint-boxes as we do, we might supply these natural colors
to the young. Where else will they study color under greater advantages?
What School of Design can vie with this? Think how much the eyes of
painters of all kinds, and of manufacturers of cloth and paper, and
paper-stainers, and countless others, are to be educated by these autumnal
colors. The stationer's envelopes may be of very various tints, yet, not
so various as those of the leaves of a single tree. If you want a
different shade or tint of a particular color, you have only to look
farther within or without the tree or the wood. These leaves are not many
dipped in one dye, as at the dye-house, but they are dyed in light of
infinitely various degrees of strength, and left to set and dry there.

Shall the names of so many of our colors continue to be derived from those
of obscure foreign localities, as Naples yellow, Prussian blue, raw
Sienna, burnt Umber, Gamboge?--(surely the Tyrian purple must have faded
by this time),--or from comparatively trivial articles of commerce,--
chocolate, lemon, coffee, cinnamon, claret?--(shall we compare our
Hickory to a lemon, or a lemon to a Hickory?)--or from ores and oxides
which few ever see? Shall we so often, when describing to our neighbors
the color of something we have seen, refer them, not to some natural
object in our neighborhood, but perchance to a bit of earth fetched from
the other side of the planet, which possibly they may find at the
apothecary's, but which probably neither they nor we ever saw? Have we not
an _earth_ under our feet,--ay, and a sky over our heads? Or is the
last _all_ ultramarine? What do we know of sapphire, amethyst, emerald,
ruby, amber, and the like,--most of us who take these names in vain? Leave
these precious words to cabinet-keepers, virtuosos, and maids-of-honor,--
to the Nabobs, Begums, and Chobdars of Hindostan, or wherever else. I do
not see why, since America and her autumn woods have been discovered, our
leaves should not compete with the precious stones in giving names to
colors; and, indeed, I believe that in course of time the names of some of
our trees and shrubs, as well as flowers, will get into our popular
chromatic nomenclature.

But of much more importance than a knowledge of the names and distinctions
of color is the joy and exhilaration which these colored leaves excite.
Already these brilliant trees throughout the street, without any more
variety, are at least equal to an annual festival and holiday, or a week
of such. These are cheap and innocent gala-days, celebrated by one and all
without the aid of committees or marshals, such a show as may safely be
licensed, not attracting gamblers or rum-sellers, not requiring any
special police to keep the peace. And poor indeed must be that New-England
village's October which has not the Maple in its streets. This October
festival costs no powder, nor ringing of bells, but every tree is a living
liberty-pole on which a thousand bright flags are waving.

No wonder that we must have our annual Cattle-Show, and Fall Training,
and perhaps Cornwallis, our September Courts, and the like. Nature
herself holds her annual fair in October, not only in the streets, but
in every hollow and on every hill-side. When lately we looked into that
Red-Maple swamp all ablaze, where the trees were clothed in their vestures
of most dazzling tints, did it not suggest a thousand gypsies beneath,--a
race capable of wild delight,--or even the fabled fawns, satyrs, and
wood-nymphs come back to earth? Or was it only a congregation of wearied
wood-choppers, or of proprietors come to inspect their lots, that we
thought of? Or, earlier still, when we paddled on the river through that
fine-grained September air, did there not appear to be something new going
on under the sparkling surface of the stream, a shaking of props, at
least, so that we made haste in order to be up in time? Did not the rows
of yellowing Willows and Button-Bushes on each side seem like rows of
booths, under which, perhaps, some fluviatile egg-pop equally yellow was
effervescing? Did not all these suggest that man's spirits should rise as
high as Nature's,--should hang out their flag, and the routine of his life
be interrupted by an analogous expression of joy and hilarity?

No annual training or muster of soldiery, no celebration with its scarfs
and banners, could import into the town a hundredth part of the annual
splendor of our October. We have only to set the trees, or let them stand,
and Nature will find the colored drapery,--flags of all her nations, some
of whose private signals hardly the botanist can read,--while we walk
under the triumphal arches of the Elms. Leave it to Nature to appoint the
days, whether the same as in neighboring States or not, and let the clergy
read her proclamations, if they can understand them. Behold what a
brilliant drapery is her Woodbine flag! What public-spirited merchant,
think you, has contributed this part of the show? There is no handsomer
shingling and paint than this vine, at present covering a whole side of
some houses. I do not believe that the Ivy _never sere_ is comparable to
it. No wonder it has been extensively introduced into London. Let us have
a good many Maples and Hickories and Scarlet Oaks, then, I say. Blaze
away! Shall that dirty roll of bunting in the gun-house be all the colors
a village can display? A village is not complete unless it have these
trees to mark the season in it. They are important, like the town-clock. A
village that has them not will not be found to work well. It has a screw
loose, an essential part is wanting. Let us have Willows for spring, Elms
for summer, Maples and Walnuts and Tupeloes for autumn, Evergreens for
winter, and Oaks for all seasons. What is a gallery in a house to a
gallery in the streets, which every market-man rides through, whether he
will or not? Of course, there is not a picture-gallery in the country
which would be worth so much to us as is the western view at sunset under
the Elms of our main street. They are the frame to a picture which is
daily painted behind them. An avenue of Elms as large as our largest and
three miles long would seem to lead to some admirable place, though only
C---- were at the end of it.

A village needs these innocent stimulants of bright and cheering prospects
to keep off melancholy and superstition. Show me two villages, one
embowered in trees and blazing with all the glories of October, the other
a merely trivial and treeless waste, or with only a single tree or two for
suicides, and I shall be sure that in the latter will be found the most
starved and bigoted religionists and the most desperate drinkers. Every
washtub and milkcan and gravestone will be exposed. The inhabitants will
disappear abruptly behind their barns and houses, like desert Arabs amid
their rocks, and I shall look to see spears in their hands. They will be
ready to accept the most barren and forlorn doctrine,--as that the world
is speedily coming to an end, or has already got to it, or that they
themselves are turned wrong side outward. They will perchance crack their
dry joints at one another and call it a spiritual communication.

But to confine ourselves to the Maples. What if we were to take half as
much pains in protecting them as we do in setting them out,--not stupidly
tie our horses to our dahlia-stems?

What meant the fathers by establishing this _perfectly living_ institution
before the church,--this institution which needs no repairing nor
repainting, which is continually enlarged and repaired by its growth?
Surely they

  "Wrought in a sad sincerity;
   Themselves from God they could not free;
   They _planted_ better than they knew;--
   The conscious _trees_ to beauty grew."

Verily these Maples are cheap preachers, permanently settled, which preach
their half-century, and century, ay, and century-and-a-half sermons, with
constantly increasing unction and influence, ministering to many
generations of men; and the least we can do is to supply them with
suitable colleagues as they grow infirm.

THE SCARLET OAK.

Belonging to a genus which is remarkable for the beautiful form of its
leaves, I suspect that some Scarlet-Oak leaves surpass those of all other
Oaks in the rich and wild beauty of their outlines. I judge from an
acquaintance with twelve species, and from drawings which I have seen of
many others.

Stand under this tree and see how finely its leaves are cut against the
sky,--as it were, only a few sharp points extending from a midrib. They
look like double, treble, or quadruple crosses. They are far more ethereal
than the less deeply scolloped Oak-leaves. They have so little leafy
_terra firma_ that they appear melting away in the light, and scarcely
obstruct our view. The leaves of very young plants are, like those of
full-grown Oaks of other species, more entire, simple, and lumpish in
their outlines; but these, raised high on old trees, have solved the leafy
problem. Lifted higher and higher, and sublimated more and more, putting
off some earthiness and cultivating more intimacy with the light each
year, they have at length the least possible amount of earthy matter, and
the greatest spread and grasp of skyey influences. There they dance, arm
in arm with the light,--tripping it on fantastic points, fit partners in
those aerial halls. So intimately mingled are they with it, that, what
with their slenderness and their glossy surfaces, you can hardly tell at
last what in the dance is leaf and what is light. And when no zephyr
stirs, they are at most but a rich tracery to the forest-windows.

I am again struck with their beauty, when, a month later, they thickly
strew the ground in the woods, piled one upon another under my feet. They
are then brown above, but purple beneath. With their narrow lobes and
their bold deep scollops reaching almost to the middle, they suggest that
the material must be cheap, or else there has been a lavish expense in
their creation, as if so much had been cut out. Or else they seem to us
the remnants of the stuff out of which leaves have been cut with a die.
Indeed, when they lie thus one upon another, they remind me of a pile of
scrap-tin.

Or bring one home, and study it closely at your leisure, by the fireside.
It is a type, not from any Oxford font, not in the Basque nor the
arrow-headed character, not found on the Rosetta Stone, but destined to be
copied in sculpture one day, if they ever get to whittling stone here.
What a wild and pleasing outline, a combination of graceful curves and
angles! The eye rests with equal delight on what is not leaf and on what
is leaf,--on the broad, free, open sinuses, and on the long, sharp,
bristle-pointed lobes. A simple oval outline would include it all, if you
connected the points of the leaf; but how much richer is it than that,
with its half-dozen deep scollops, in which the eye and thought of the
beholder are embayed! If I were a drawing-master, I would set my pupils to
copying these leaves, that they might learn to draw firmly and gracefully.

Regarded as water, it is like a pond with half a dozen broad rounded
promontories extending nearly to its middle, half from each side, while
its watery bays extend far inland, like sharp friths, at each of whose
heads several fine streams empty in,--almost a leafy archipelago.

But it oftener suggests land, and, as Dionysius and Pliny compared
the form of the Morea to that of the leaf of the Oriental Plane-tree,
so this leaf reminds me of some fair wild island in the ocean, whose
extensive coast, alternate rounded bays with smooth strands, and
sharp-pointed rocky capes, mark it as fitted for the habitation of man,
and destined to become a centre of civilization at last. To the sailor's
eye, it is a much-indented shore. Is it not, in fact, a shore to the
aerial ocean, on which the windy surf beats? At sight of this leaf we are
all mariners,--if not vikings, buccaneers, and filibusters. Both our love
of repose and our spirit of adventure are addressed. In our most casual
glance, perchance, we think, that, if we succeed in doubling those sharp
capes, we shall find deep, smooth, and secure havens in the ample bays.
How different from the White-Oak leaf, with its rounded headlands, on
which no lighthouse need be placed! That is an England, with its long
civil history, that may be read. This is some still unsettled New-found
Island or Celebes. Shall we go and be rajahs there?

By the twenty-sixth of October the large Scarlet Oaks are in their prime,
when other Oaks are usually withered. They have been kindling their fires
for a week past, and now generally burst into a blaze. This alone of _our_
indigenous deciduous trees (excepting the Dogwood, of which I do not know
half a dozen, and they are but large bushes) is now in its glory. The two
Aspens and the Sugar-Maple come nearest to it in date, but they have lost
the greater part of their leaves. Of evergreens, only the Pitch-Pine is
still commonly bright.

But it requires a particular alertness, if not devotion to these
phenomena, to appreciate the wide-spread, but late and unexpected glory of
the Scarlet Oaks. I do not speak here of the small trees and shrubs, which
are commonly observed, and which are now withered, but of the large trees.
Most go in and shut their doors, thinking that bleak and colorless
November has already come, when some of the most brilliant and memorable
colors are not yet lit.

This very perfect and vigorous one, about forty feet high, standing in an
open pasture, which was quite glossy green on the twelfth, is now, the
twenty-sixth, completely changed to bright dark scarlet,--every leaf,
between you and the sun, as if it had been dipped into a scarlet dye. The
whole tree is much like a heart in form, as well as color. Was not this
worth waiting for? Little did you think, ten days ago, that that cold
green tree would assume such color as this. Its leaves are still firmly
attached, while those of other trees are falling around it. It seems to
say,--"I am the last to blush, but I blush deeper than any of ye. I bring
up the rear in my red coat. We Scarlet ones, alone of Oaks, have not given
up the fight."

The sap is now, and even far into November, frequently flowing fast in
these trees, as in Maples in the spring; and apparently their bright
tints, now that most other Oaks are withered, are connected with this
phenomenon. They are full of life. It has a pleasantly astringent,
acorn-like taste, this strong Oak-wine, as I find on tapping them with my
knife.

Looking across this woodland valley, a quarter of a mile wide, how rich
those Scarlet Oaks, embosomed in Pines, their bright red branches
intimately intermingled with them! They have their full effect there. The
Pine-boughs are the green calyx to their red petals. Or, as we go along a
road in the woods, the sun striking endwise through it, and lighting up
the red tents of the Oaks, which on each side are mingled with the liquid
green of the Pines, makes a very gorgeous scene. Indeed, without the
evergreens for contrast, the autumnal tints would lose much of their
effect.

The Scarlet Oak asks a clear sky and the brightness of late October days.
These bring out its colors. If the sun goes into a cloud, they become
comparatively indistinct. As I sit on a cliff in the southwest part of our
town, the sun is now getting low, and the woods in Lincoln, south and east
of me, are lit up by its more level rays; and in the Scarlet Oaks,
scattered so equally over the forest, there is brought out a more
brilliant redness than I had believed was in them. Every tree of this
species which is visible in those directions, even to the horizon, now
stands out distinctly red. Some great ones lift their red backs high above
the woods, in the next town, like huge roses with a myriad of fine petals;
and some more slender ones, in a small grove of White Pines on Pine Hill
in the east, on the very verge of the horizon, alternating with the Pines
on the edge of the grove, and shouldering them with their red coats, look
like soldiers in red amid hunters in green. This time it is Lincoln green,
too. Till the sun got low, I did not believe that there were so many red
coats in the forest army. Theirs is an intense burning red, which would
lose some of its strength, methinks, with every step you might take toward
them; for the shade that lurks amid their foliage does not report itself
at this distance, and they are unanimously red. The focus of their
reflected color is in the atmosphere far on this side. Every such tree
becomes a nucleus of red, as it were, where, with the declining sun, that
color grows and glows. It is partly borrowed fire, gathering strength from
the sun on its way to your eye. It has only some comparatively dull red
leaves for a rallying-point, or kindling-stuff, to start it, and it
becomes an intense scarlet or red mist, or fire, which finds fuel for
itself in the very atmosphere. So vivacious is redness. The very rails
reflect a rosy light at this hour and season. You see a redder tree than
exists.

If you wish to count the Scarlet Oaks, do it now. In a clear day stand
thus on a hill-top in the woods, when the sun is an hour high, and every
one within range of your vision, excepting in the west, will be revealed.
You might live to the age of Methuselah and never find a tithe of them,
otherwise. Yet sometimes even in a dark day I have thought them as bright
as I ever saw them. Looking westward, their colors are lost in a blaze of
light; but in other directions the whole forest is a flower-garden, in
which these late roses burn, alternating with green, while the so-called
"gardeners," walking here and there, perchance, beneath, with spade and
water-pot, see only a few little asters amid withered leaves.

These are _my_ China-asters, _my_ late garden-flowers. It costs me nothing
for a gardener. The falling leaves, all over the forest, are protecting
the roots of my plants. Only look at what is to be seen, and you will have
garden enough, without deepening the soil in your yard. We have only to
elevate our view a little, to see the whole forest as a garden. The
blossoming of the Scarlet Oak,--the forest-flower, surpassing all in
splendor, (at least since the Maple)! I do not know but they interest me
more than the Maples, they are so widely and equally dispersed throughout
the forest; they are so hardy, a nobler tree on the whole;--our chief
November flower, abiding the approach of winter with us, imparting warmth
to early November prospects. It is remarkable that the latest bright color
that is general should be this deep, dark scarlet and red, the intensest
of colors. The ripest fruit of the year; like the cheek of a hard, glossy,
red apple, from the cold Isle of Orleans, which will not be mellow for
eating till next spring! When I rise to a hilltop, a thousand of these
great Oak roses, distributed on every side, as far as the horizon! I
admire them four or five miles off! This my unfailing prospect for a
fortnight past! This late forest-flower surpasses all that spring or
summer could do. Their colors were but rare and dainty specks
comparatively, (created for the near-sighted, who walk amid the humblest
herbs and underwoods,) and made no impression on a distant eye. Now it is
an extended forest or a mountain-side, through or along which we journey
from day to day, that bursts into bloom. Comparatively, our gardening is
on a petty scale,--the gardener still nursing a few asters amid dead
weeds, ignorant of the gigantic asters and roses, which, as it were,
overshadow him, and ask for none of his care. It is like a little red
paint ground on a saucer, and held up against the sunset sky. Why not take
more elevated and broader views, walk in the great garden, not skulk in a
little "debauched" nook of it? consider the beauty of the forest, and not
merely of a few impounded herbs?

Let your walks now be a little more adventurous; ascend the hills. If,
about the last of October, you ascend any hill in the outskirts of our
town, and probably of yours, and look over the forest, you may see--well,
what I have endeavored to describe. All this you surely _will_ see, and
much more, if you are prepared to see it,--if you _look_ for it.
Otherwise, regular and universal as this phenomenon is, whether you stand
on the hill-top or in the hollow, you will think for threescore years and
ten that all the wood is, at this season, sere and brown. Objects are
concealed from our view, not so much because they are out of the course of
our visual ray as because we do not bring our minds and eyes to bear on
them; for there is no power to see in the eye itself, any more than in any
other jelly. We do not realize how far and widely, or how near and
narrowly, we are to look. The greater part of the phenomena of Nature are
for this reason concealed from us all our lives. The gardener sees only
the gardener's garden. Here, too, as in political economy, the supply
answers to the demand. Nature does not cast pearls before swine. There is
just as much beauty visible to us in the landscape as we are prepared to
appreciate,--not a grain more. The actual objects which one man will see
from a particular hill-top are just as different from those which another
will see as the beholders are different. The Scarlet Oak must, in a sense,
be in your eye when you go forth. We cannot see anything until we are
possessed with the idea of it, take it into our heads,--and then we can
hardly see anything else. In my botanical rambles, I find, that, first,
the idea, or image, of a plant occupies my thoughts, though it may seem
very foreign to this locality,--no nearer than Hudson's Bay,--and for some
weeks or months I go thinking of it, and expecting it, unconsciously, and
at length I surely see it. This is the history of my finding a score or
more of rare plants, which I could name. A man sees only what concerns
him. A botanist absorbed in the study of grasses does not distinguish the
grandest Pasture Oaks. He, as it were, tramples down Oaks unwittingly in
his walk, or at most sees only their shadows. I have found that it
required a different intention of the eye, in the same locality, to see
different plants, even when they were closely allied, as _Juncaceoe_ and
_Gramineoe_: when I was looking for the former, I did not see the latter
in the midst of them. How much more, then, it requires different
intentions of the eye and of the mind to attend to different departments
of knowledge! How differently the poet and the naturalist look at objects!

Take a New-England selectman, and set him on the highest of our hills, and
tell him to look,--sharpening his sight to the utmost, and putting on the
glasses that suit him best, (ay, using a spy-glass, if he likes,)--and
make a full report. What, probably, will he _spy_?--what will he _select_
to look at? Of course, he will see a Brocken spectre of himself. He will
see several meeting-houses, at least, and, perhaps, that somebody ought to
be assessed higher than he is, since he has so handsome a wood-lot. Now
take Julius Caesar, or Immanuel Swedenborg, or a Fegee-Islander, and set
him up there. Or suppose all together, and let them compare notes
afterward. Will it appear that they have enjoyed the same prospect? What
they will see will be as different as Rome was from Heaven or Hell, or the
last from the Fegee Islands. For aught we know, as strange a man as any of
these is always at our elbow.

Why, it takes a sharp-shooter to bring down even such trivial game as
snipes and woodcocks; he must take very particular aim, and know what he
is aiming at. He would stand a very small chance, if he fired at random
into the sky, being told that snipes were flying there. And so is it with
him that shoots at beauty; though he wait till the sky falls, he will not
bag any, if he does not already know its seasons and haunts, and the color
of its wing,--if he has not dreamed of it, so that he can _anticipate_ it;
then, indeed, he flushes it at every step, shoots double and on the wing,
with both barrels, even in cornfields. The sportsman trains himself,
dresses and watches unweariedly, and loads and primes for his particular
game. He prays for it, and offers sacrifices, and so he gets it. After due
and long preparation, schooling his eye and hand, dreaming awake and
asleep, with gun and paddle and boat he goes out after meadow-hens, which
most of his townsmen never saw nor dreamed of, and paddles for miles
against a head-wind, and wades in water up to his knees, being out all day
without his dinner, and _therefore_ he gets them. He had them half-way
into his bag when he started, and has only to shove them down. The true
sportsman can shoot you almost any of his game from his windows: what else
has he windows or eyes for? It comes and perches at last on the barrel of
his gun; but the rest of the world never see it _with the feathers on_.
The geese fly exactly under his zenith, and honk when they get there, and
he will keep himself supplied by firing up his chimney; twenty musquash
have the refusal of each one of his traps before it is empty. If he lives,
and his game-spirit increases, heaven and earth shall fail him sooner than
game; and when he dies, he will go to more extensive, and, perchance,
happier hunting-grounds. The fisherman, too, dreams of fish, sees a
bobbing cork in his dreams, till he can almost catch them in his
sink-spout. I knew a girl who, being sent to pick huckleberries, picked
wild gooseberries by the quart, where no one else knew that there were
any, because she was accustomed to pick them up country where she came
from. The astronomer knows where to go star-gathering, and sees one
clearly in his mind before any have seen it with a glass. The hen
scratches and finds her food right under where she stands; but such is not
the way with the hawk.

These bright leaves which I have mentioned are not the exception, but the
rule; for I believe that all leaves, even grasses and mosses, acquire
brighter colors just before their fall. When you come to observe
faithfully the changes of each humblest plant, you find that each has,
sooner or later, its peculiar autumnal tint; and if you undertake to make
a complete list of the bright tints, it will be nearly as long as a
catalogue of the plants in your vicinity.



WILD APPLES.

(1862.)


THE HISTORY OF THE APPLE-TREE.

It is remarkable how closely the history of the Apple-tree is connected
with that of man. The geologist tells us that the order of the _Rosaceae_,
which includes the Apple, also the true Grasses, and the _Labiatae_ or
Mints, were introduced only a short time previous to the appearance of man
on the globe.

It appears that apples made a part of the food of that unknown primitive
people whose traces have lately been found at the bottom of the Swiss
lakes, supposed to be older than the foundation of Rome, so old that they
had no metallic implements. An entire black and shrivelled Crab-Apple has
been recovered from their stores.

Tacitus says of the ancient Germans, that they satisfied their hunger with
wild apples (_agrestia poma_) among other things.

Niebuhr observes that "the words for a house, a field, a plough,
ploughing, wine, oil, milk, sheep, apples, and others relating to
agriculture and the gentler way of life, agree in Latin and Greek, while
the Latin words for all objects pertaining to war or the chase are utterly
alien from the Greek." Thus the apple-tree may be considered a symbol of
peace no less than the olive.

The apple was early so important, and generally distributed, that its name
traced to its root in many languages signifies fruit in general. [Greek:
Maelon], in Greek, means an apple, also the fruit of other trees, also a
sheep and any cattle, and finally riches in general.

The apple-tree has been celebrated by the Hebrews, Greeks, Romans, and
Scandinavians. Some have thought that the first human pair were tempted by
its fruit. Goddesses are fabled to have contended for it, dragons were set
to watch it, and heroes were employed to pluck it.

The tree is mentioned in at least three places in the Old Testament, and
its fruit in two or three more. Solomon sings,--"As the apple-tree among
the trees of the wood, so is my beloved among the sons." And again,--"Stay
me with flagons, comfort me with apples." The noblest part of man's
noblest feature is named from this fruit, "the apple of the eye."

The apple-tree is also mentioned by Homer and Herodotus. Ulysses saw in
the glorious garden of Alcinous "pears and pomegranates, and apple-trees
bearing beautiful fruit" (kai maeleui aglaokarpoi). And according to
Homer, apples were among the fruits which Tantalus could not pluck, the
wind ever blowing their boughs away from him. Theophrastus knew and
described the apple-tree as a botanist.

According to the Prose Edda, "Iduna keeps in a box the apples which the
gods, when they feel old age approaching, have only to taste of to become
young again. It is in this manner that they will be kept in renovated
youth until Ragnarök" (or the destruction of the gods).

I learn from Loudon that "the ancient Welsh bards were rewarded for
excelling in song by the token of the apple-spray;" and "in the Highlands
of Scotland the apple-tree is the badge of the-clan Lamont."

The apple-tree (_Pyrus malus_) belongs chiefly to the northern temperate
zone. Loudon says, that "it grows spontaneously in every part of Europe
except the frigid zone, and throughout Western Asia, China, and Japan." We
have also two or three varieties of the apple indigenous in North America.
The cultivated apple-tree was first introduced into this country by the
earliest settlers, and is thought to do as well or better here than
anywhere else. Probably some of the varieties which are now cultivated
were first introduced into Britain by the Romans.

Pliny, adopting the distinction of Theophrastus, says,--"Of trees there
are some which are altogether wild (_sylvestres_), some more civilized
(_urbaniores_)." Theophrastus includes the apple among the last; and,
indeed, it is in this sense the most civilized of all trees. It is as
harmless as a dove, as beautiful as a rose, and as valuable as flocks and
herds. It has been longer cultivated than any other, and so is more
humanized; and who knows but, like the dog, it will at length be no longer
traceable to its wild original? It migrates with man, like the dog and
horse and cow: first, perchance, from Greece to Italy, thence to England,
thence to America; and our Western emigrant is still marching steadily
toward the setting sun with the seeds of the apple in his pocket, or
perhaps a few young trees strapped to his load. At least a million
apple-trees are thus set farther westward this year than any cultivated
ones grew last year. Consider how the Blossom-Week, like the Sabbath, is
thus annually spreading over the prairies; for when man migrates, he
carries with him not only his birds, quadrupeds, insects, vegetables, and
his very sward, but his orchard also.

The leaves and tender twigs are an agreeable food to many domestic
animals, as the cow, horse, sheep, and goat; and the fruit is sought after
by the first, as well as by the hog. Thus there appears to have existed
a natural alliance between these animals and this tree from the first.
"The fruit of the Crab in the forests of France" is said to be "a great
resource for the wild-boar."

Not only the Indian, but many indigenous insects, birds, and quadrupeds,
welcomed the apple-tree to these shores. The tent-caterpillar saddled her
eggs on the very first twig that was formed, and it has since shared her
affections with the wild cherry; and the canker-worm also in a measure
abandoned the elm to feed on it. As it grew apace, the bluebird, robin,
cherry-bird, king-bird, and many more, came with haste and built their
nests and warbled in its boughs, and so became orchard-birds, and
multiplied more than ever. It was an era in the history of their race.
The downy woodpecker found such a savory morsel under its bark, that he
perforated it in a ring quite round the tree, before he left it,--a thing
which he had never done before, to my knowledge. It did not take the
partridge long to find out how sweet its buds were, and every winter eve
she flew, and still flies, from the wood, to pluck them, much to the
farmer's sorrow. The rabbit, too, was not slow to learn the taste of its
twigs and bark; and when the fruit was ripe, the squirrel half-rolled,
half-carried it to his hole; and even the musquash crept up the bank from
the brook at evening, and greedily devoured it, until he had worn a path
in the grass there; and when it was frozen and thawed, the crow and the
jay were glad to taste it occasionally. The owl crept into the first
apple-tree that became hollow, and fairly hooted with delight, finding it
just the place for him; so, settling down into it, he has remained there
ever since.

My theme being the Wild Apple, I will merely glance at some of the seasons
in the annual growth of the cultivated apple, and pass on to my special
province.

The flowers of the apple are perhaps the most beautiful of any tree's, so
copious and so delicious to both sight and scent. The walker is frequently
tempted to turn and linger near some more than usually handsome one, whose
blossoms are two thirds expanded. How superior it is in these respects to
the pear, whose blossoms are neither colored nor fragrant!

By the middle of July, green apples are so large as to remind us of
coddling, and of the autumn. The sward is commonly strewed with little
ones which fall still-born, as it were,--Nature thus thinning them for us.
The Roman writer Palladius said,--"If apples are inclined to fall before
their time, a stone placed in a split root will retain them." Some such
notion, still surviving, may account for some of the stones which we see
placed to be overgrown in the forks of trees. They have a saying in
Suffolk, England,--

  "At Michaelmas time, or a little before,
   Half an apple goes to the core."

Early apples begin to be ripe about the first of August; but I think that
none of them are so good to eat as some to smell. One is worth more to
scent your handkerchief with than any perfume which they sell in the
shops. The fragrance of some fruits is not to be forgotten, along with
that of flowers. Some gnarly apple which I pick up in the road reminds me
by its fragrance of all the wealth of Pomona,--carrying me forward to
those days when they will be collected in golden and ruddy heaps in the
orchards and about the cider-mills.

A week or two later, as you are going by orchards or gardens, especially
in the evenings, you pass through a little region possessed by the
fragrance of ripe apples, and thus enjoy them without price, and without
robbing anybody.

There is thus about all natural products a certain volatile and ethereal
quality which represents their highest value, and which cannot be
vulgarized, or bought and sold. No mortal has ever enjoyed the perfect
flavor of any fruit, and only the godlike among men begin to taste its
ambrosial qualities. For nectar and ambrosia are only those fine flavors
of every earthly fruit which our coarse palates fail to perceive,--just as
we occupy the heaven of the gods without knowing it. When I see a
particularly mean man carrying a load of fair and fragrant early apples to
market, I seem to see a contest going on between him and his horse, on the
one side, and the apples on the other, and, to my mind, the apples always
gain it. Pliny says that apples are the heaviest of all things, and that
the oxen begin to sweat at the mere sight of a load of them. Our driver
begins to lose his load the moment he tries to transport them to where
they do not belong, that is, to any but the most beautiful. Though he gets
out from time to time, and feels of them, and thinks they are all there, I
see the stream of their evanescent and celestial qualities going to heaven
from his cart, while the pulp and skin and core only are going to market.
They are not apples, but pomace. Are not these still Iduna's apples, the
taste of which keeps the gods forever young? and think you that they will
let Loki or Thjassi carry them off to Jötunheim, while they grow wrinkled
and gray? No, for Ragnarök, or the destruction of the gods, is not yet.

There is another thinning of the fruit, commonly near the end of August or
in September, when the ground is strewn with windfalls; and this happens
especially when high winds occur after rain. In some orchards you may see
fully three quarters of the whole crop on the ground, lying in a circular
form beneath the trees, yet hard and green,--or, if it is a hill-side,
rolled far down the hill. However, it is an ill wind that blows nobody any
good. All the country over, people are busy picking up the windfalls, and
this will make them cheap for early apple-pies.

In October, the leaves falling, the apples are more distinct on the trees.
I saw one year in a neighboring town some trees fuller of fruit than I
remember to have ever seen before, small yellow apples hanging over the
road. The branches were gracefully drooping with their weight, like a
barberry-bush, so that the whole tree acquired a new character. Even the
topmost branches, instead of standing erect, spread and drooped in all
directions; and there were so many poles supporting the lower ones, that
they looked like pictures of banian-trees. As an old English manuscript
says, "The mo appelen the tree bereth, the more sche boweth to the folk."

Surely the apple is the noblest of fruits. Let the most beautiful or the
swiftest have it. That should be the "going" price of apples.

Between the fifth and twentieth of October I see the barrels lie under the
trees. And perhaps I talk with one who is selecting some choice barrels to
fulfil an order. He turns a specked one over many times before he leaves
it out. If I were to tell what is passing in my mind, I should say that
every one was specked which he had handled; for he rubs off all the bloom,
and those fugacious ethereal qualities leave it. Cool eveings prompt the
farmers to make haste, and at length I see only the ladders here and there
left leaning against the trees.

It would be well, if we accepted these gifts with more joy and gratitude,
and did not think it enough simply to put a fresh load of compost about
the tree. Some old English customs are suggestive at least. I find them
described chiefly in Brand's "Popular Antiquities." It appears that "on
Christmas eve the farmers and their men in Devonshire take a large bowl of
cider, with a toast in it, and carrying it in state to the orchard, they
salute the apple-trees with much ceremony, in order to make them bear well
the next season." This salutation consists in "throwing some of the cider
about the roots of the tree, placing bits of the toast on the branches,"
and then, "encircling one of the best bearing trees in the orchard, they
drink the following toast three several times:--

  'Here's to thee, old apple-tree,
 Whence thou mayst bud, and whence thou mayst blow,
 And whence thou mayst bear apples enow!
   Hats-full! caps-full!
   Bushel, bushel, sacks-full!
   And my pockets full, too! Hurra!'"

Also what was called "apple-howling" used to be practised in various
counties of England on New-Year's eve. A troop of boys visited the
different orchards, and, encircling the apple-trees, repeated the
following words:--

  "Stand fast, root! bear well, top!
   Pray God send us a good howling crop:
   Every twig, apples big;
   Every bow, apples enow!"

"They then shout in chorus, one of the boys accompanying them on a cow's
horn. During this ceremony they rap the trees with their sticks." This is
called "wassailing" the trees, and is thought by some to be "a relic of
the heathen sacrifice to Pomona."

Herrick sings,--

  "Wassaile the trees that they may beare
   You many a plum and many a peare;
   For more or less fruits they will bring
   As you so give them wassailing."

Our poets have as yet a better right to sing of cider than of wine; but it
behooves them to sing better than English Phillips did, else they will do
no credit to their Muse.

THE WILD APPLE.

So much for the more civilized apple-trees (_urbaniores_, as Pliny
calls them). I love better to go through the old orchards of ungrafted
apple-trees, at whatever season of the year,--so irregularly planted:
sometimes two trees standing close together; and the rows so devious that
you would think that they not only had grown while the owner was sleeping,
but had been set out by him in a somnambulic state. The rows of grafted
fruit will never tempt me to wander amid them like these. But I now, alas,
speak rather from memory than from any recent experience, such ravages
have been made!

Some soils, like a rocky tract called the Easterbrooks Country in my
neighborhood, are so suited to the apple, that it will grow faster in them
without any care, or if only the ground is broken up once a year, than it
will in many places with any amount of care. The owners of this tract
allow that the soil is excellent for fruit, but they say that it is so
rocky that they have not patience to plough it, and that, together with
the distance, is the reason why it is not cultivated. There are, or were
recently, extensive orchards there standing without order. Nay, they
spring up wild and bear well there in the midst of pines, birches, maples,
and oaks. I am often surprised to see rising amid these trees the rounded
tops of apple-trees glowing with red or yellow fruit; in harmony with the
autumnal tints of the forest.

Going up the side of a cliff about the first of November, I saw a vigorous
young apple-tree, which, planted by birds or cows, had shot up amid the
rocks and open woods there, and had now much fruit on it, uninjured by
the frosts, when all cultivated apples were gathered. It was a rank
wild growth, with many green leaves on it still, and made an impression
of thorniness. The fruit was hard and green, but looked as if it would be
palatable in the winter. Some was dangling on the twigs, but more
half-buried in the wet leaves under the tree, or rolled far down the hill
amid the rocks. The owner knows nothing of it. The day was not observed
when it first blossomed, nor when it first bore fruit, unless by the
chickadee. There was no dancing on the green beneath it in its honor, and
now there is no hand to pluck its fruit,--which is only gnawed by
squirrels, as I perceive. It has done double duty,--not only borne this
crop, but each twig has grown a foot into the air. And this is _such_
fruit! bigger than many berries, we must admit, and carried home will be
sound and palatable next spring. What care I for Iduna's apples so long as
I can get these?

When I go by this shrub thus late and hardy, and see its dangling fruit,
I respect the tree, and I am grateful for Nature's bounty, even though
I cannot eat it. Here on this rugged and woody hill-side has grown an
apple-tree, not planted by man, no relic of a former orchard, but a
natural growth, like the pines and oaks. Most fruits which we prize and
use depend entirely on our care. Corn and grain, potatoes, peaches,
melons, etc., depend altogether on our planting; but the apple emulates
man's independence and enterprise. It is not simply carried, as I have
said, but, like him, to some extent, it has migrated to this New World,
and is even, here and there, making its way amid the aboriginal trees;
just as the ox and dog and horse sometimes run wild and maintain
themselves.

Even the sourest and crabbedest apple, growing in the most unfavorable
position, suggests such thoughts as these, it is so noble a fruit.

THE CRAB.

Nevertheless, _our_ wild apple is wild only like myself, perchance, who
belong not to the aboriginal race here, but have strayed into the woods
from the cultivated stock. Wilder still, as I have said, there grows
elsewhere in this country a native and aboriginal Crab-Apple, _Malus
coronaria_, "whose nature has not yet been modified by cultivation."
It is found from Western New-York to Minnesota, and southward. Michaux
says that its ordinary height "is fifteen or eighteen feet, but it is
sometimes found twenty-five or thirty feet high," and that the large ones
"exactly resemble the common apple-tree." "The flowers are white mingled
with rose-color, and are collected in corymbs." They are remarkable for
their delicious odor. The fruit, according to him, is about an inch and a
half in diameter, and is intensely acid. Yet they make fine sweetmeats,
and also cider of them. He concludes, that "if, on being cultivated, it
does not yield new and palatable varieties, it will at least be celebrated
for the beauty of its flowers, and for the sweetness of its perfume."

I never saw the Crab-Apple till May, 1861. I had heard of it through
Michaux, but more modern botanists, so far as I know, have not treated it
as of any peculiar importance. Thus it was a half-fabulous tree to me. I
contemplated a pilgrimage to the "Glades," a portion of Pennsylvania where
it was said to grow to perfection. I thought of sending to a nursery for
it, but doubted if they had it, or would distinguish it from European
varieties. At last I had occasion to go to Minnesota, and on entering
Michigan I began to notice from the cars a tree with handsome rose-colored
flowers. At first I thought it some variety of thorn; but it was not long
before the truth flashed on me, that this was my long-sought Crab-Apple.
It was the prevailing flowering shrub or tree to be seen from the cars at
that season of the year,--about the middle of May. But the cars never
stopped before one, and so I was launched on the bosom of the Mississippi
without having touched one, experiencing the fate of Tantalus. On arriving
at St. Anthony's Falls, I was sorry to be told that I was too far north
for the Crab-Apple. Nevertheless I succeeded in finding it about eight
miles west of the Falls; touched it and smelled it, and secured a
lingering corymb of flowers for my herbarium. This must have been near its
northern limit.

HOW THE WILD APPLE GROWS.

But though these are indigenous, like the Indians, I doubt whether they
are any hardier than those backwoodsmen among the apple-trees, which,
though descended from cultivated stocks, plant themselves in distant
fields and forests, where the soil is favorable to them. I know of no
trees which have more difficulties to contend with, and which more
sturdily resist their foes. These are the ones whose story we have to
tell. It oftentimes reads thus:--

Near the beginning of May, we notice little thickets of apple-trees just
springing up in the pastures where cattle have been,--as the rocky ones of
our Easterbrooks Country, or the top of Nobscot Hill, in Sudbury. One or
two of these perhaps survive the drought and other accidents,--their very
birthplace defending them against the encroaching grass and some other
dangers, at first.

In two years' time 't had thus
  Reached the level of the rocks,
Admired the stretching world,
  Nor feared the wandering flocks.

But at this tender age
  Its sufferings began:
There came a browsing ox
 And cut it down a span.

This time, perhaps, the ox does not notice it amid the grass; but the next
year, when it has grown more stout, he recognizes it for a fellow-emigrant
from the old country, the flavor of whose leaves and twigs he well knows;
and though at first he pauses to welcome it, and express his surprise, and
gets for answer, "The same cause that brought you here brought me," he
nevertheless browses it again, reflecting, it may be, that he has some
title to it.

Thus cut down annually, it does not despair; but, putting forth two short
twigs for every one cut off, it spreads out low along the ground in the
hollows or between the rocks, growing more stout and scrubby, until it
forms, not a tree as yet, but a little pyramidal, stiff, twiggy mass,
almost as solid and impenetrable as a rock. Some of the densest and most
impenetrable clumps of bushes that I have ever seen, as well on account of
the closeness and stubbornness of their branches as of their thorns, have
been these wild-apple scrubs. They are more like the scrubby fir and black
spruce on which you stand, and sometimes walk, on the tops of mountains,
where cold is the demon they contend with, than anything else. No wonder
they are prompted to grow thorns at last, to defend themselves against
such foes. In their thorniness, however, there is no malice, only some
malic acid.

The rocky pastures of the tract I have referred to,--for they maintain
their ground best in a rocky field,--are thickly sprinkled with these
little tufts, reminding you often of some rigid gray mosses or lichens,
and you see thousands of little trees just springing up between them, with
the seed still attached to them.

Being regularly clipped all around each year by the cows, as a hedge with
shears, they are often of a perfect conical or pyramidal form, from one to
four feet high, and more or less sharp, as if trimmed by the gardener's
art. In the pastures on Nobscot Hill and its spurs, they make fine dark
shadows when the sun is low. They are also an excellent covert from hawks
for many small birds that roost and build in them. Whole flocks perch in
them at night, and I have seen three robins' nests in one which was six
feet in diameter.

No doubt many of these are already old trees, if you reckon from the day
they were planted, but infants still when you consider their development
and the long life before them. I counted the annual rings of some which
were just one foot high, and as wide as high, and found that they were
about twelve years old, but quite sound and thrifty! They were so low that
they were unnoticed by the walker, while many of their contemporaries from
the nurseries were already bearing considerable crops. But what you gain
in time is perhaps in this case, too, lost in power,--that is, in the
vigor of the tree. This is their pyramidal state.

The cows continue to browse them thus for twenty years or more, keeping
them down and compelling them to spread, until at last they are so broad
that they become their own fence, when some interior shoot, which their
foes cannot reach, darts upward with joy: for it has not forgotten its
high calling, and bears its own peculiar fruit in triumph.

Such are the tactics by which it finally defeats its bovine foes. Now, if
you have watched the progress of a particular shrub, you will see that it
is no longer a simple pyramid or cone, but that out of its apex there
rises a sprig or two, growing more lustily perchance than an orchard-tree,
since the plant now devotes the whole of its repressed energy to these
upright parts. In a short time these become a small tree, an inverted
pyramid resting on the apex of the other, so that the whole has now the
form of a vast hour-glass. The spreading bottom, having served its
purpose, finally disappears, and the generous tree permits the now
harmless cows to come in and stand in its shade, and rub against and
redden its trunk, which has grown in spite of them, and even to taste a
part of its fruit, and so disperse the seed.

Thus the cows create their own shade and food; and the tree, its
hour-glass being inverted, lives a second life, as it were.

It is an important question with some nowadays, whether you should trim
young apple-trees as high as your nose or as high as your eyes. The ox
trims them up as high as he can reach, and that is about the right height,
I think.

In spite of wandering kine, and other adverse circumstances, that despised
shrub, valued only by small birds as a covert and shelter from hawks, has
its blossom-week at last, and in coarse of time its harvest, sincere,
though small.

By the end of some October, when its leaves have fallen, I frequently see
such a central sprig, whose progress I have watched, when I thought it had
forgotten its destiny, as I had, bearing its first crop of small green or
yellow or rosy fruit, which the cows cannot get at over the bushy and
thorny hedge which surrounds it, and I make haste to taste the new and
undescribed variety. We have all heard of the numerous varieties of fruit
invented by Van Mons and Knight. This is the system of Van Cow, and she
has invented far more and more memorable varieties than both of them.

Through what hardships it may attain to bear a sweet fruit! Though
somewhat small, it may prove equal, if not superior, in flavor to that
which has grown in a garden,--will perchance be all the sweeter and more
palatable for the very difficulties it has had to contend with. Who knows
but this chance wild fruit, planted by a cow or a bird on some remote and
rocky hillside, where it is as yet unobserved by man, may be the choicest
of all its kind, and foreign potentates shall hear of it, and royal
societies seek to propagate it, though the virtues of the perhaps truly
crabbed owner of the soil may never be heard of,--at least, beyond the
limits of his village? It was thus the Porter and the Baldwin grew.

Every wild-apple shrub excites our expectation thus, somewhat as every
wild child. It is, perhaps, a prince in disguise. What a lesson to man! So
are human beings, referred to the highest standard, the celestial fruit
which they suggest and aspire to bear, browsed on by fate; and only the
most persistent and strongest genius defends itself and prevails, sends a
tender scion upward at last, and drops its perfect fruit on the ungrateful
earth. Poets and philosophers and statesmen thus spring up in the country
pastures, and outlast the hosts of unoriginal men.

Such is always the pursuit of knowledge. The celestial fruits, the golden
apples of the Hesperides, are ever guarded by a hundred-headed dragon
which never sleeps, so that it is an Herculean labor to pluck them.

This is one, and the most remarkable way, in which the wild apple is
propagated; but commonly it springs up at wide intervals in woods and
swamps, and by the sides of roads, as the soil may suit it, and grows with
comparative rapidity. Those which grow in dense woods are very tall and
slender. I frequently pluck from these trees a perfectly mild and tamed
fruit. As Palladius says, "_Et injussu consternitur ubere mali_": And the
ground is strewn with the fruit of an unbidden apple-tree.

It is an old notion, that, if these wild trees do not bear a valuable
fruit of their own, they are the best stocks by which to transmit to
posterity the most highly prized qualities of others. However, I am not in
search of stocks, but the wild fruit itself, whose fierce gust has
suffered no "inteneration." It is not my

               "highest plot
       To plant the Bergamot."

THE FRUIT, AND ITS FLAVOR.

The time for wild apples is the last of October and the first of November.
They then get to be palatable, for they ripen late, and they are still
perhaps as beautiful as ever. I make a great account of these fruits,
which the farmers do not think it worth the while to gather,--wild flavors
of the Muse, vivacious and inspiriting. The farmer thinks that he has
better in his barrels, but he is mistaken, unless he has a walker's
appetite and imagination, neither of which can he have.

Such as grow quite wild, and are left out till the first of November, I
presume that the owner does not mean to gather. They belong to children as
wild as themselves,--to certain active boys that I know,--to the wild-eyed
woman of the fields, to whom nothing comes amiss, who gleans after all the
world,--and, moreover, to us walkers. We have met with them, and they are
ours. These rights, long enough insisted upon, have come to be an
institution in some old countries, where they have learned how to live. I
hear that "the custom of grippling, which may be called apple-gleaning,
is, or was formerly, practised in Herefordshire. It consists in leaving a
few apples, which are called the gripples, on every tree, after the
general gathering, for the boys, who go with climbing-poles and bags to
collect them."

As for those I speak of, I pluck them as a wild fruit, native to this
quarter of the earth,--fruit of old trees that have been dying ever since
I was a boy and are not yet dead, frequented only by the woodpecker and
the squirrel, deserted now by the owner, who has not faith enough to look
under their boughs. From the appearance of the tree-top, at a little
distance, you would expect nothing but lichens to drop from it, but your
faith is rewarded by finding the ground strewn with spirited fruit,--some
of it, perhaps, collected at squirrel-holes, with the marks of their teeth
by which they carried them,--some containing a cricket or two silently
feeding within, and some, especially in damp days, a shelless snail. The
very sticks and stones lodged in the tree-top might have convinced you of
the savoriness of the fruit which has been so eagerly sought after in past
years.

I have seen no account of these among the "Fruits and Fruit-Trees of
America," though they are more memorable to my taste than the grafted
kinds; more racy and wild American flavors do they possess, when October
and November, when December and January, and perhaps February and March
even, have assuaged them somewhat. An old farmer in my neighborhood, who
always selects the right word, says that "they have a kind of bow-arrow
tang."

Apples for grafting appear to have been selected commonly, not so much for
their spirited flavor, as for their mildness, their size, and bearing
qualities,--not so much for their beauty, as for their fairness and
soundness. Indeed, I have no faith in the selected lists of pomological
gentlemen. Their "Favorites" and "None-suches" and "Seek-no-farthers,"
when I have fruited them, commonly turn out very tame and forgetable.
They are eaten with comparatively little zest, and have no real _tang_ nor
_smack_ to them.

What if some of these wildings are acrid and puckery, genuine _verjuice_,
do they not still belong to the _Pomaceae_, which are uniformly innocent
and kind to our race? I still begrudge them to the cider-mill. Perhaps
they are not fairly ripe yet.

No wonder that these small and high-colored apples are thought to make the
best cider. Loudon quotes from the "Herefordshire Report," that "apples of
a small size are always, if equal in quality, to be preferred to those of
a larger size, in order that the rind and kernel may bear the greatest
proportion to the pulp, which affords the weakest and most watery juice."
And he says, that, "to prove this, Dr. Symonds, of Hereford, about the
year 1800, made one hogshead of cider entirely from the rinds and cores of
apples, and another from the pulp only, when the first was found of
extraordinary strength and flavor, while the latter was sweet and
insipid."

Evelyn says that the "Red-strake" was the favorite cider-apple in his day;
and he quotes one Dr. Newburg as saying, "In Jersey 't is a general
observation, as I hear, that the more of red any apple has in its rind,
the more proper it is for this use. Pale-faced apples they exclude as much
as may be from their cider-vat." This opinion still prevails.

All apples are good in November. Those which the farmer leaves out as
unsalable, and unpalatable to those who frequent the markets, are choicest
fruit to the walker. But it is remarkable that the wild apple, which I
praise as so spirited and racy when eaten in the fields or woods, being
brought into the house, has frequently a harsh and crabbed taste.
The Saunterer's Apple not even the saunterer can eat in the house.
The palate rejects it there, as it does haws and acorns, and demands a
tamed one; for there you miss the November air, which is the sauce it is
to be eaten with. Accordingly, when Tityrus, seeing the lengthening
shadows, invites Meliboeus to go home and pass the night with him, he
promises him _mild_ apples and soft chestnuts,--_mitia poma, castaneae
molles_. I frequently pluck wild apples of so rich and spicy a flavor that
I wonder all orchardists do not get a scion from that tree, and I fail not
to bring home my pockets full. But perchance, when I take one out of my
desk and taste it in my chamber, I find it unexpectedly crude,--sour
enough to set a squirrel's teeth on edge and make a jay scream.

These apples have hung in the wind and frost and rain till they have
absorbed the qualities of the weather or season, and thus are highly
_seasoned,_ and they _pierce_ and _sting_ and _permeate_ us with their
spirit. They must be eaten in _season_, accordingly,--that is,
out-of-doors.

To appreciate the wild and sharp flavors of these October fruits, it is
necessary that you be breathing the sharp October or November air. The
out-door air and exercise which the walker gets give a different tone to
his palate, and he craves a fruit which the sedentary would call harsh and
crabbed. They must be eaten in the fields, when your system is all aglow
with exercise, when the frosty weather nips your fingers, the wind rattles
the bare boughs or rustles the few remaining leaves, and the jay is heard
screaming around. What is sour in the house a bracing walk makes sweet.
Some of these apples might be labelled, "To be eaten in the wind."

Of course no flavors are thrown away; they are intended for the taste that
is up to them. Some apples have two distinct flavors, and perhaps one-half
of them must be eaten in the house, the other out-doors. One Peter Whitney
wrote from Northborough in 1782, for the Proceedings of the Boston
Academy, describing an apple-tree in that town "producing fruit of
opposite qualities, part of the same apple being frequently sour and the
other sweet;" also some all sour, and others all sweet, and this diversity
on all parts of the tree.

There is a wild apple on Nawshawtuck Hill in my town which has to me a
peculiarly pleasant bitter tang, not perceived till it is three-quarters
tasted. It remains on the tongue. As you eat it, it smells exactly like a
squash-bug. It is a sort of triumph to eat and relish it.

I hear that the fruit of a kind of plum-tree in Provence is "called
_Prunes sibarelles_, because it is impossible to whistle after having
eaten them, from their sourness." But perhaps they were only eaten in the
house and in summer, and if tried out-of-doors in a stinging atmosphere,
who knows but you could whistle an octave higher and clearer?

In the fields only are the sours and bitters of Nature appreciated; just
as the wood-chopper eats his meal in a sunny glade, in the middle of a
winter day, with content, basks in a sunny ray there and dreams of summer
in a degree of cold which, experienced in a chamber, would make a student
miserable. They who are at work abroad are not cold, but rather it is they
who sit shivering in houses. As with temperatures, so with flavors; as,
with cold and heat, so with sour and sweet. This natural raciness, the
sours and bitters which the diseased palate refuses, are the true
condiments.

Let your condiments be in the condition of your senses. To appreciate the
flavor of these wild apples requires vigorous and healthy senses,
_papillae_ firm and erect on the tongue and palate, not easily flattened
and tamed.

From my experience with wild apples, I can understand that there may be
reason for a savage's preferring many kinds of food which the civilized
man rejects. The former has the palate of an out-door man. It takes a
savage or wild taste to appreciate a wild fruit.

What a healthy out-of-door appetite it takes to relish the apple of life,
the apple of the world, then!

  "Nor is it every apple I desire,
   Nor that which pleases every palate best;
   'T is not the lasting Deuxan I require,
   Nor yet the red-cheeked Greening I request,
   Nor that which first beshrewed the name of wife,
   Nor that whose beauty caused the golden strife:
   No, no I bring me an apple from the tree of life."

So there is one _thought_ for the field, another for the house. I would
have my thoughts, like wild apples, to be food for walkers, and will not
warrant them to be palatable, if tasted in the house.

THEIR BEAUTY.

Almost all wild apples are handsome. They cannot be too gnarly and crabbed
and rusty to look at. The gnarliest will have some redeeming traits even
to the eye. You will discover some evening redness dashed or sprinkled on
some protuberance or in some cavity. It is rare that the summer lets an
apple go without streaking or spotting it on some part of its sphere. It
will have some red stains, commemorating the mornings and evenings it has
witnessed; some dark and rusty blotches, in memory of the clouds and
foggy, mildewy days that have passed over it; and a spacious field of
green reflecting the general face of Nature,--green even as the fields; or
a yellow ground, which implies a milder flavor,--yellow as the harvest, or
russet as the hills.

Apples, these I mean, unspeakably fair,--apples not of Discord, but of
Concord! Yet not so rare but that the homeliest may have a share. Painted
by the frosts, some a uniform clear bright yellow, or red, or crimson, as
if their spheres had regularly revolved, and enjoyed the influence of the
sun on all sides alike,--some with the faintest pink blush imaginable,--
some brindled with deep red streaks like a cow, or with hundreds of fine
blood-red rays running regularly from the stem-dimple to the blossom-end,
like meridional lines, on a straw-colored ground,--some touched with a
greenish rust, like a fine lichen, here and there, with crimson blotches
or eyes more or less confluent and fiery when wet,--and others gnarly, and
freckled or peppered all over on the stem side with fine crimson spots on
a white ground, as if accidentally sprinkled from the brush of Him who
paints the autumn leaves. Others, again, are sometimes red inside,
perfused with a beautiful blush, fairy food, too beautiful to eat,--apple
of the Hesperides, apple of the evening sky! But like shells and pebbles
on the sea-shore, they must be seen as they sparkle amid the withering
leaves in some dell in the woods, in the autumnal air, or as they lie in
the wet grass, and not when they have wilted and faded in the house.

THE NAMING OF THEM.

It would be a pleasant pastime to find suitable names for the hundred
varieties which go to a single heap at the cider-mill. Would it not tax a
man's invention,--no one to be named after a man, and all in the _lingua
vernacula_? Who shall stand godfather at the christening of the wild
apples? It would exhaust the Latin and Greek languages, if they were used,
and make the _lingua vernacula_ flag. We should have to call in the
sunrise and the sunset, the rainbow and the autumn woods and the wild
flowers, and the woodpecker and the purple finch and the squirrel and the
jay and the butterfly, the November traveller and the truant boy, to our
aid.

In 1836 there were in the garden of the London Horticultural Society more
than fourteen hundred distinct sorts. But here are species which they have
not in their catalogue, not to mention the varieties which our Crab might
yield to cultivation.

Let us enumerate a few of these. I find myself compelled, after all, to
give the Latin names of some for the benefit of those who live where
English is not spoken,--for they are likely to have a world-wide
reputation.

There is, first of all, the Wood-Apple (_Malus sylvatica_); the Blue-Jay
Apple; the Apple which grows in Dells in the Woods, (_sylvestrivallis_,)
also in Hollows in Pastures (_campestrivallis_); the Apple that
grows in an old Cellar-Hole (_Malus cellaris_); the Meadow-Apple;
the Partridge-Apple; the Truant's Apple, (_Cessatoris_,) which no boy
will ever go by without knocking off some, however _late_ it may be;
the Saunterer's Apple,--you must lose yourself before you can find
the way to that; the Beauty of the Air (_Decus Aeris_); December-Eating;
the Frozen-Thawed _(gelato-soluta),_ good only in that state; the Concord
Apple, possibly the same with the _Musketaquidensis_; the Assabet Apple;
the Brindled Apple; Wine of New England; the Chickaree Apple; the Green
Apple _(Malus viridis);_--this has many synonymes; in an imperfect
state, it is the _Cholera morbifera aut dysenterifera, puerulis
dilectissima_;--the Apple which Atalanta stopped to pick up; the
Hedge-Apple _(Malus Sepium_); the Slug-Apple _(limacea)_; the
Railroad-Apple, which perhaps came from a core thrown out of the cars;
the Apple whose Fruit we tasted in our Youth; our Particular Apple,
not to be found in any catalogue,--_Pedestrium Solatium_; also the Apple
where hangs the Forgotten Scythe; Iduna's Apples, and the Apples which
Loki found in the Wood; and a great many more I have on my list, too
numerous to mention,--all of them good. As Bodaeus exclaims, referring to
the cultivated kinds, and adapting Virgil to his case, so I, adapting
Bodaeus,--

  "Not if I had a hundred tongues, a hundred mouths,
   An iron voice, could I describe all the forms
   And reckon up all the names of these _wild apples_."

THE LAST GLEANING.

By the middle of November the wild apples have lost some of their
brilliancy, and have chiefly fallen. A great part are decayed on the
ground, and the sound ones are more palatable than before. The note of
the chickadee sounds now more distinct, as you wander amid the old trees,
and the autumnal dandelion is half-closed and tearful. But still, if you
are a skilful gleaner, you may get many a pocket-full even of grafted
fruit, long after apples are supposed to be gone out-of-doors. I know
a Blue-Pearmain tree, growing within the edge of a swamp, almost as good
as wild. You would not suppose that there was any fruit left there,
on the first survey, but you must look according to system. Those which
lie exposed are quite brown and rotten now, or perchance a few still show
one blooming cheek here and there amid the wet leaves. Nevertheless,
with experienced eyes, I explore amid the bare alders and the
huckleberry-bushes and the withered sedge, and in the crevices of the
rocks, which are full of leaves, and pry under the fallen and decaying
ferns, which, with apple and alder leaves, thickly strew the ground. For I
know that they lie concealed, fallen into hollows long since and covered
up by the leaves of the tree itself,--a proper kind of packing. From these
lurking-places, anywhere within the circumference of the tree, I draw
forth the fruit, all wet and glossy, maybe nibbled by rabbits and hollowed
out by crickets and perhaps with a leaf or two cemented to it (as Curzon
an old manuscript from a monastery's mouldy cellar), but still with a rich
bloom on it, and at least as ripe and well kept, if not better than those
in barrels, more crisp and lively than they. If these resources fail to
yield anything, I have learned to look between the bases of the suckers
which spring thickly from some horizontal limb, for now and then one
lodges there, or in the very midst of an alder-clump, where they are
covered by leaves, safe from cows which may have smelled them out. If I am
sharp-set, for I do not refuse the Blue-Pearmain, I fill my pockets on
each side; and as I retrace my steps in the frosty eve, being perhaps four
or five miles from home, I eat one first from this side, and then from
that, to keep my balance.

I learn from Topsell's Gesner, whose authority appears to be Albertus,
that the following is the way in which the hedgehog collects and carries
home his apples. He says,--"His meat is apples, worms, or grapes: when he
findeth apples or grapes on the earth, he rolleth himself upon them, until
he have filled all his prickles, and then carrieth them home to his den,
never bearing above one in his mouth; and if it fortune that one of them
fall off by the way, he likewise shaketh off all the residue, and
walloweth upon them afresh, until they be all settled upon his back again.
So, forth he goeth, making a noise like a cart-wheel; and if he have any
young ones in his nest, they pull off his load wherewithal he is loaded,
eating thereof what they please, and laying up the residue for the time to
come."

THE "FROZEN-THAWED" APPLE.

Toward the end of November, though some of the sound ones are yet more
mellow and perhaps more edible, they have generally, like the leaves, lost
their beauty, and are beginning to freeze. It is finger-cold, and prudent
farmers get in their barrelled apples, and bring you the apples and cider
which they have engaged; for it is time to put them into the cellar.
Perhaps a few on the ground show their red cheeks above the early snow,
and occasionally some even preserve their color and soundness under the
snow throughout the winter. But generally at the beginning of the winter
they freeze hard, and soon, though undecayed, acquire the color of a baked
apple.

Before the end of December, generally, they experience their first
thawing. Those which a month ago were sour, crabbed, and quite unpalatable
to the civilized taste, such at least as were frozen while sound, let a
warmer sun come to thaw them, for they are extremely sensitive to its
rays, are found to be filled with a rich, sweet cider, better than any
bottled cider that I know of, and with which I am better acquainted than
with wine. All apples are good in this state, and your jaws are the
cider-press. Others, which have more substance, are a sweet and luscious
food,--in my opinion of more worth than the pine-apples which are imported
from the West Indies. Those which lately even I tasted only to repent of
it,--for I am semi-civilized,--which the farmer willingly left on the
tree, I am now glad to find have the property of hanging on like the
leaves of the young oaks. It is a way to keep cider sweet without boiling.
Let the frost come to freeze them first, solid as stones, and then the
rain or a warm winter day to thaw them, and they will seem to have
borrowed a flavor from heaven through the medium of the air in which they
hang. Or perchance you find, when you get home, that those which rattled
in your pocket have thawed, and the ice is turned to cider. But after the
third or fourth freezing and thawing they will not be found so good.

What are the imported half-ripe fruits of the torrid South, to this
fruit matured by the cold of the frigid North? These are those crabbed
apples with which I cheated my companion, and kept a smooth face that
I might tempt him to eat. Now we both greedily fill our pockets with
them,--bending to drink the cup and save our lappets from the overflowing
juice,--and grow more social with their wine. Was there one that hung so
high and sheltered by the tangled branches that our sticks could not
dislodge it?

It is a fruit never carried to market, that I am aware of,--quite distinct
from the apple of the markets, as from dried apple and cider,--and it is
not every winter that produces it in perfection.

       *       *       *       *       *

The era of the Wild Apple will soon be past. It is a fruit which will
probably become extinct in New England. You may still wander through old
orchards of native fruit of great extent, which for the most part went to
the cider-mill, now all gone to decay. I have heard of an orchard in a
distant town, on the side of a hill, where the apples rolled down and lay
four feet deep against a wall on the lower side, and this the owner cut
down for fear they should be made into cider. Since the temperance reform
and the general introduction of grafted fruit, no native apple-trees, such
as I see everywhere in deserted pastures, and where the woods have grown
up around them, are set out. I fear that he who walks over these fields a
century hence will not know the pleasure of knocking off wild apples. Ah,
poor man, there are many pleasures which he will not know! Notwithstanding
the prevalence of the Baldwin and the Porter, I doubt if so extensive
orchards are set out to-day in my town as there were a century ago, when
those vast straggling cider-orchards were planted, when men both ate and
drank apples, when the pomace-heap was the only nursery, and trees cost
nothing but the trouble of setting them out. Men could afford then to
stick a tree by every wall-side and let it take its chance. I see nobody
planting trees to-day in such out-of-the-way places, along the lonely
roads and lanes, and at the bottom of dells in the wood. Now that they
have grafted trees, and pay a price for them, they collect them into a
plat by their houses, and fence them in,--and the end of it all will be
that we shall be compelled to look for our apples in a barrel.

This is "The word of the Lord that came to Joel the son of Pethuel.

"Hear this, ye old men, and give ear, all ye inhabitants of the land!
Hath this been in your days, or even in the days of your fathers?...

"That which the palmer-worm hath left hath the locust eaten; and that
which the locust hath left hath the canker-worm eaten; and that which the
canker-worm hath left hath the caterpillar eaten.

"Awake, ye drunkards, and weep! and howl, all ye drinkers of wine, because
of the new wine! for it is cut off from your mouth.

"For a nation is come up upon my land, strong, and without number, whose
teeth are the teeth of a lion, and he hath the cheek-teeth of a great
lion.

"He hath laid my vine waste, and barked my fig-tree; he hath made it clean
bare, and cast it away; the branches thereof are made white....

"Be ye ashamed, O ye husbandmen! howl, O ye vine-dressers!...

"The vine is dried up, and the fig-tree languisheth; the pomegranate-tree,
the palm-tree also, and the apple-tree, even all the trees of the field,
are withered: because joy is withered away from the sons of men."



NIGHT AND MOONLIGHT.

Chancing to take a memorable walk by moonlight some years ago, I resolved
to take more such walks, and make acquaintance with another side of
nature: I have done so.

According to Pliny, there is a stone in Arabia called Selenites, "wherein
is a white, which increases and decreases with the moon." My journal for
the last year or two, has been _selenitic_ in this sense.

Is not the midnight like Central Africa to most of us? Are we not tempted
to explore it,--to penetrate to the shores of its lake Tchad, and discover
the source of its Nile, perchance the Mountains of the Moon? Who knows
what fertility and beauty, moral and natural, are there to be found? In
the Mountains of the Moon, in the Central Africa of the night, there is
where all Niles have their hidden heads. The expeditions up the Nile as
yet extend but to the Cataracts, or perchance to the mouth of the White
Nile; but it is the Black Nile that concerns us.

I shall be a benefactor if I conquer some realms from the night, if I
report to the gazettes anything transpiring about us at that season worthy
of their attention,--if I can show men that there is some beauty awake
while they are asleep,--if I add to the domains of poetry.

Night is certainly more novel and less profane than day. I soon discovered
that I was acquainted only with its complexion, and as for the moon, I had
seen her only as it were through a crevice in a shutter, occasionally. Why
not walk a little way in her light?

Suppose you attend to the suggestions which the moon makes for one month,
commonly in vain, will it not be very different from anything in
literature or religion? But why not study this Sanscrit? What if one moon
has come and gone with its world of poetry, its weird teachings, its
oracular suggestions,--so divine a creature freighted with hints for me,
and I have not used her? One moon gone by unnoticed?

I think it was Dr. Chalmers who said, criticising Coleridge, that for his
part he wanted ideas which he could see all round, and not such as he must
look at away up in the heavens. Such a man, one would say, would never
look at the moon, because she never turns her other side to us. The light
which comes from ideas which have their orbit as distant from the earth,
and which is no less cheering and enlightening to the benighted traveller
than that of the moon and stars, is naturally reproached or nicknamed as
moonshine by such. They are moonshine, are they? Well, then do your
night-travelling when there is no moon to light you; but I will be
thankful for the light that reaches me from the star of least magnitude.
Stars are lesser or greater only as they appear to us so. I will be
thankful that I see so much as one side of a celestial idea,--one side of
the rainbow,--and the sunset sky.

Men talk glibly enough about moonshine, as if they knew its qualities very
well, and despised them; as owls might talk of sunshine. None of your
sunshine,--but this word commonly means merely something which they do not
understand,--which they are abed and asleep to, however much it may be
worth their while to be up and awake to it.

It must be allowed that the light of the moon, sufficient though it is for
the pensive walker, and not disproportionate to the inner light we have,
is very inferior in quality and intensity to that of the sun. But the moon
is not to be judged alone by the quantity of light she sends to us, but
also by her influence on the earth and its inhabitants. "The moon
gravitates toward the earth, and the earth reciprocally toward the moon."
The poet who walks by moonlight is conscious of a tide in his thought
which is to be referred to lunar influence. I will endeavor to separate
the tide in my thoughts from the current distractions of the day. I would
warn my hearers that they must not try my thoughts by a daylight standard,
but endeavor to realize that I speak out of the night. All depends on your
point of view. In Drake's "Collection of Voyages," Wafer says of some
Albinoes among the Indians of Darien, "They are quite white, but their
whiteness is like that of a horse, quite different from the fair or pale
European, as they have not the least tincture of a blush or sanguine
complexion. * * * Their eyebrows are milk-white, as is likewise the hair
of their heads, which is very fine. * * * They seldom go abroad in the
daytime, the sun being disagreeable to them, and causing their eyes, which
are weak and poring, to water, especially if it shines towards them, yet
they see very well by moonlight, from which we call them moon-eyed."

Neither in our thoughts in these moonlight walks, methinks, is there "the
least tincture of a blush or sanguine complexion," but we are
intellectually and morally Albinoes,--children of Endymion,--such is the
effect of conversing much with the moon.

I complain of Arctic voyagers that, they do not enough remind us of the
constant peculiar dreariness of the scenery, and the perpetual twilight of
the Arctic night. So he whose theme is moonlight, though he may find it
difficult, must, as it were, illustrate it with the light of the moon
alone.

Many men walk by day; few walk by night. It is a very different season.
Take a July night, for instance. About ten o'clock,--when man is asleep,
and day fairly forgotten,--the beauty of moonlight is seen over lonely
pastures where cattle are silently feeding. On all sides novelties present
themselves. Instead of the sun there are the moon and stars, instead of
the wood-thrush there is the whip-poor-will,--instead of butterflies in
the meadows, fire-flies, winged sparks of fire! who would have believed
it? What kind of cool deliberate life dwells in those dewy abodes
associated with a spark of fire? So man has fire in his eyes, or blood, or
brain. Instead of singing birds, the half-throttled note of a cuckoo
flying over, the croaking of frogs, and the intenser dream of crickets.
But above all, the wonderful trump of the bull-frog, ringing from Maine to
Georgia. The potato-vines stand upright, the corn grows apace, the bushes
loom, the grain-fields are boundless. On our open river terraces once
cultivated by the Indian, they appear to occupy the ground like an army,--
their heads nodding in the breeze.

Small trees and shrubs are seen in the midst, overwhelmed as by an
inundation. The shadows of rocks and trees, and shrubs and hills, are more
conspicuous than the objects themselves. The slightest irregularities in
the ground are revealed by the shadows, and what the feet find
comparatively smooth, appears rough and diversified in consequence. For
the same reason the whole landscape is more variegated and picturesque
than by day. The smallest recesses in the rocks are dim and cavernous; the
ferns in the wood appear of tropical size. The sweet fern and indigo in
overgrown wood-paths wet you with dew up to your middle. The leaves of the
shrub-oak are shining as if a liquid were flowing over them. The pools
seen through the trees are as full of light as the sky. "The light of the
day takes refuge in their bosoms," as the Purana says of the ocean. All
white objects are more remarkable than by day. A distant cliff looks like
a phosphorescent space on a hillside. The woods are heavy and dark. Nature
slumbers. You see the moonlight reflected from particular stumps in the
recesses of the forest, as if she selected what to shine on. These small
fractions of her light remind one of the plant called moon-seed,--as if
the moon were sowing it in such places.

In the night the eyes are partly closed or retire into the head. Other
senses take the lead. The walker is guided as well by the sense of smell.
Every plant and field and forest emits its odor now, swamp-pink in the
meadow and tansy in the road; and there is the peculiar dry scent of corn
which has begun to show its tassels. The senses both of hearing and
smelling are more alert. We hear the tinkling of rills which we never
detected before. From time to time, high up on the sides of hills, you
pass through a stratum of warm air. A blast which has come up from the
sultry plains of noon. It tells of the day, of sunny noon-tide hours and
banks, of the laborer wiping his brow and the bee humming amid flowers. It
is an air in which work has been done,--which men have breathed. It
circulates about from wood-side to hill-side like a dog that has lost its
master, now that the sun is gone. The rocks retain all night the warmth of
the sun which they have absorbed. And so does the sand. If you dig a few
inches into it you find a warm bed. You lie on your back on a rock in a
pasture on the top of some bare hill at midnight, and speculate on the
height of the starry canopy. The stars are the jewels of the night, and
perchance surpass anything which day has to show. A companion with whom I
was sailing one very windy but bright moonlight night, when the stars were
few and faint, thought that a man could get along with _them_,--though he
was considerably reduced in his circumstances,--that they were a kind of
bread and cheese that never failed.

No wonder that there have been astrologers, that some have conceived that
they were personally related to particular stars. Dubartas, as translated
by Sylvester, says he'll

    "not believe that the great architect
  With all these fires the heavenly arches decked
  Only for show, and with these glistering shields,
  T' awake poor shepherds, watching in the fields."
  He'll "not believe that the least flower which pranks
  Our garden borders, or our common banks,
  And the least stone, that in her warming lap
  Our mother earth doth covetously wrap,
  Hath some peculiar virtue of its own,
  And that the glorious stars of heav'n have none."

And Sir Walter Raleigh well says, "the stars are instruments of far
greater use, than to give an obscure light, and for men to gaze on after
sunset;" and he quotes Plotinus as affirming that they "are significant,
but not efficient;" and also Augustine as saying, "_Deus regit inferiora
corpora per superiora_:" God rules the bodies below by those above. But
best of all is this which another writer has expressed: "_Sapiens
adjuvabit opus astrorum quemadmodum agricola terrae naturam_:" a wise man
assisteth the work of the stars as the husbandman helpeth the nature of
the soil.

It does not concern men who are asleep in their beds, but it is very
important to the traveller, whether the moon shines brightly or is
obscured. It is not easy to realize the serene joy of all the earth, when
she commences to shine unobstructedly, unless you have often been abroad
alone in moonlight nights. She seems to be waging continual war with the
clouds in your behalf. Yet we fancy the clouds to be _her_ foes also. She
comes on magnifying her dangers by her light, revealing, displaying them
in all their hugeness and blackness, then suddenly casts them behind into
the light concealed, and goes her way triumphant through a small space of
clear sky.

In short, the moon traversing, or appearing to traverse, the small clouds
which lie in her way, now obscured by them, now easily dissipating and
shining through them, makes the drama of the moonlight night to all
watchers and night-travellers. Sailors speak of it as the moon eating up
the clouds. The traveller all alone, the moon all alone, except for his
sympathy, overcoming with incessant victory whole squadrons of clouds
above the forests and lakes and hills. When she is obscured he so
sympathizes with her that he could whip a dog for her relief, as Indians
do. When she enters on a clear field of great extent in the heavens, and
shines unobstructedly, he is glad. And when she has fought her way through
all the squadron of her foes, and rides majestic in a clear sky unscathed,
and there are no more any obstructions in her path, he cheerfully and
confidently pursues his way, and rejoices in his heart, and the cricket
also seems to express joy in its song.

How insupportable would be the days, if the night with its dews and
darkness did not come to restore the drooping world. As the shades begin
to gather around us, our primeval instincts are aroused, and we steal
forth from our lairs, like the inhabitants of the jungle, in search of
those silent and brooding thoughts which are the natural prey of the
intellect.

Richter says that "The earth is every day overspread with the veil of
night for the same reason as the cages of birds are darkened, viz: that we
may the more readily apprehend the higher harmonies of thought in the hush
and quiet of darkness. Thoughts which day turns into smoke and mist, stand
about us in the night as light and flames; even as the column which
fluctuates above the crater of Vesuvius, in the daytime appears a pillar
of cloud, but by night a pillar of fire."

There are nights in this climate of such serene and majestic beauty, so
medicinal and fertilizing to the spirit, that methinks a sensitive nature
would not devote them to oblivion, and perhaps there is no man but would
be better and wiser for spending them out of doors, though he should sleep
all the next day to pay for it; should sleep an Endymion sleep, as the
ancients expressed it,--nights which warrant the Grecian epithet
ambrosial, when, as in the land of Beulah, the atmosphere is charged with
dewy fragrance, and with music, and we take our repose and have our dreams
awake,--when the moon, not secondary to the sun,

            "gives us his blaze again,
  Void of its flame, and sheds a softer day.
  Now through the passing cloud she seems to stoop,
  Now up the pure cerulean rides sublime."

Diana still hunts in the New England sky.

  "In Heaven queen she is among the spheres.
    She, mistress-like, makes all things to be pure.
  Eternity in her oft change she bears;
    She Beauty is; by her the fair endure.

  Time wears her not; she doth his chariot guide;
    Mortality below her orb is placed;
  By her lie virtues of the stars down slide;
    By her is Virtue's perfect image cast."

The Hindoos compare the moon to a saintly being who has reached the last
stage of bodily existence.

Great restorer of antiquity, great enchanter. In a mild night, when the
harvest or hunter's moon shines unobstructedly, the houses in our village,
whatever architect they may have had by day, acknowledge only a master.
The village street is then as wild as the forest. New and old things are
confounded. I know not whether I am sitting on the ruins of a wall, or on
the material which is to compose a new one. Nature is an instructed and
impartial teacher, spreading no crude opinions, and flattering none; she
will be neither radical nor conservative. Consider the moonlight, so
civil, yet so savage!

The light is more proportionate to our knowledge than that of day. It is
no more dusky in ordinary nights, than our mind's habitual atmosphere, and
the moonlight is as bright as our most illuminated moments are.

  "In such a night let me abroad remain
   Till morning breaks, and all's confused again."

Of what significance the light of day, if it is not the reflection of an
inward dawn?--to what purpose is the veil of night withdrawn, if the
morning reveals nothing to the soul? It is merely garish and glaring.

When Ossian in his address to the sun exclaims,

  "Where has darkness its dwelling?
   Where is the cavernous home of the stars,
   When thou quickly followest their steps,
   Pursuing them like a hunter in the sky,--
   Thou climbing the lofty hills,
   They descending on barren mountains?"

who does not in his thought accompany the stars to their "cavernous home,"
"descending" with them "on barren mountains?"

Nevertheless, even by night the sky is blue and not black, for we see
through the shadow of the earth into the distant atmosphere of day, where
the sunbeams are revelling.




I

MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY JULY 20-23, 1857


I started on my third excursion to the Maine woods Monday, July 20,
1857, with one companion, arriving at Bangor the next day at noon. The
succeeding morning, a relative of mine who is well acquainted with the
Penobscot Indians took me in his wagon to Oldtown to assist me in
obtaining an Indian for this expedition. We were ferried across to the
Indian Island in a bateau. The ferryman's boy had the key to it, but the
father, who was a blacksmith, after a little hesitation, cut the chain
with a cold chisel on the rock. He told me that the Indians were nearly
all gone to the seaboard and to Massachusetts, partly on account of the
smallpox, of which they are very much afraid, having broken out in
Oldtown. The old chief Neptune, however, was there still.

The first man we saw on the island was an Indian named Joseph Polis,
whom my relative addressed familiarly as "Joe." He was dressing a
deerskin in his yard. The skin was spread over a slanting log, and he
was scraping it with a stick held by both hands. He was stoutly built,
perhaps a little above the middle height, with a broad face, and, as
others said, perfect Indian features and complexion. His house was a
two-story white one with blinds, the best-looking that I noticed there,
and as good as an average one on a New England village street. It was
surrounded by a garden and fruit trees, single cornstalks standing
thinly amid the beans. We asked him if he knew any good Indian who would
like to go into the woods with us, that is, to the Allegash Lakes by way
of Moosehead, and return by the East Branch of the Penobscot.

To which he answered out of that strange remoteness in which the Indian
ever dwells to the white man, "Me like to go myself; me want to get some
moose"; and kept on scraping the skin.

The ferryman had told us that all the best Indians were gone except
Polis, who was one of the aristocracy. He, to be sure, would be the best
man we could have, but if he went at all would want a great price. Polis
asked at first two dollars a day but agreed to go for a dollar and a
half, and fifty cents a week for his canoe. He would come to Bangor with
his canoe by the seven o'clock train that evening--we might depend on
him. We thought ourselves lucky to secure the services of this man, who
was known to be particularly steady and trustworthy.

I spent the afternoon with my companion, who had remained in Bangor, in
preparing for our expedition, purchasing provisions, hard-bread,[1]
pork, coffee, sugar, etc., and some india-rubber clothing.

At evening the Indian arrived in the cars, and I led the way, while he
followed me, three quarters of a mile to my friend's house, with the
canoe on his head. I did not know the exact route, but steered by the
lay of the land, as I do in Boston. I tried to enter into conversation
with him, but as he was puffing under the weight of his canoe, not
having the usual apparatus for carrying it, but, above all, as he was an
Indian, I might as well have been thumping on the bottom of his birch
the while. In answer to the various observations that I made he only
grunted vaguely from beneath his canoe once or twice, so that I knew he
was there.

Early the next morning the stage called for us. My companion and I had
each a large knapsack as full as it would hold, and we had two large
rubber bags which held our provisions and utensils. As for the Indian,
all the baggage he had, beside his axe and gun, was a blanket, which he
brought loose in his hand. However, he had laid in a store of tobacco
and a new pipe for the excursion. The canoe was securely lashed
diagonally across the top of the stage, with bits of carpet tucked under
the edge to prevent its chafing. The driver appeared as much accustomed
to carrying canoes in this way as bandboxes.

At the Bangor House we took in four men bound on a hunting excursion,
one of the men going as cook. They had a dog, a middling-sized brindled
cur, which ran by the side of the stage, his master showing his head and
whistling from time to time. But after we had gone about three miles the
dog was suddenly missing, and two of the party went back for him, while
the stage, which was full of passengers, waited. At length one man came
back, while the other kept on. This whole party of hunters declared
their intention to stop till the dog was found, but the very obliging
driver was ready to wait a spell longer. He was evidently unwilling to
lose so many passengers, who would have taken a private conveyance, or
perhaps the other line of stages, the next day. Such progress did we
make, with a journey of over sixty miles to be accomplished that day,
and a rainstorm just setting in. We discussed the subject of dogs and
their instincts till it was threadbare, while we waited there, and the
scenery of the suburbs of Bangor is still distinctly impressed on my
memory.

[Illustration: _The Stage on the Road to Moosehead Lake_]

After full half an hour the man returned, leading the dog by a rope. He
had overtaken him just as he was entering the Bangor House. He was then
tied on the top of the stage, but, being wet and cold, several times in
the course of the journey he jumped off, and I saw him dangling by his
neck. This dog was depended on to stop bears. He had already stopped one
somewhere in New Hampshire, and I can testify that he stopped a stage in
Maine. This party of four probably paid nothing for the dog's ride,
nor for his run, while our party of three paid two dollars--and were
charged four--for the light canoe which lay still on the top.

The stage was crowded all the way. If you had looked inside you would
have thought that we were prepared to run the gantlet of a band of
robbers, for there were four or five guns on the front seat and one or
two on the back one, each man holding his darling in his arms. It
appeared that this party of hunters was going our way, but much farther.
Their leader was a handsome man about thirty years old, of good height,
but not apparently robust, of gentlemanly address and faultless toilet.
He had a fair white complexion as if he had always lived in the shade,
and an intellectual face, and with his quiet manners might have passed
for a divinity student who had seen something of the world. I was
surprised to find that he was probably the chief white hunter of Maine
and was known all along the road. I afterwards heard him spoken of as
one who could endure a great deal of exposure and fatigue without
showing the effect of it; and he could not only use guns, but make them,
being himself a gunsmith. In the spring he had saved a stage-driver and
two passengers from drowning in the backwater of the Piscataquis on this
road, having swum ashore in the freezing water and made a raft and got
them off--though the horses were drowned--at great risk to himself,
while the only other man who could swim withdrew to the nearest house to
prevent freezing. He knew our man, and remarked that we had a good
Indian there, a good hunter; adding that he was said to be worth six
thousand dollars. The Indian also knew him, and said to me, "The great
hunter."

The Indian sat on the front seat with a stolid expression of face as if
barely awake to what was going on. Again I was struck by the peculiar
vagueness of his replies when addressed in the stage or at the taverns.
He really never said anything on such occasions. He was merely stirred
up like a wild beast, and passively muttered some insignificant
response. His answer, in such cases, was vague as a puff of smoke,
suggesting no _responsibility_, and if you considered it you would find
that you had got nothing out of him. This was instead of the
conventional palaver and smartness of the white man, and equally
profitable. Most get no more than this out of the Indian, and pronounce
him stolid accordingly. I was surprised to see what a foolish and
impertinent style a Maine man, a passenger, used in addressing him, as
if he were a child, which only made his eyes glisten a little. A tipsy
Canadian asked him at a tavern, in a drawling tone, if he smoked, to
which he answered with an indefinite "Yes."

"Won't you lend me your pipe a little while?" asked the other.

He replied, looking straight by the man's head, with a face singularly
vacant to all neighboring interests, "Me got no pipe"; yet I had seen
him put a new one, with a supply of tobacco, into his pocket that
morning.

Our little canoe, so neat and strong, drew a favorable criticism from
all the wiseacres among the tavern loungers along the road. By the
roadside, close to the wheels, I noticed a splendid great purple fringed
orchis which I would fain have stopped the stage to pluck, but as this
had never been known to stop a bear, like the cur on the stage, the
driver would probably have thought it a waste of time.

When we reached the lake, about half past eight in the evening, it was
still steadily raining, and in that fresh, cool atmosphere the hylas
were peeping and the toads ringing about the lake. It was as if the
season had revolved backward two or three months, or I had arrived at
the abode of perpetual spring.

We had expected to go upon the lake at once, and, after paddling up two
or three miles, to camp on one of its islands, but on account of the
rain we decided to go to one of the taverns for the night.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Hard-bread or ship-bread is a kind of hard biscuit commonly baked in
large cakes and much used by sailors and soldiers.




II

FRIDAY, JULY 24.


About four o'clock the next morning, though it was quite cloudy,
accompanied by the landlord to the water's edge, in the twilight, we
launched our canoe from a rock on Moosehead Lake. We had a rather small
canoe for three persons, eighteen and one fourth feet long by two feet
six and one half inches wide in the middle, and one foot deep within. I
judged that it would weigh not far from eighty pounds. The Indian had
recently made it himself, and its smallness was partly compensated for
by its newness, as well as stanchness and solidity, it being made of
very thick bark and ribs. Our baggage weighed about one hundred and
sixty-six pounds. The principal part of the baggage was, as usual,
placed in the middle of the broadest part, while we stowed ourselves in
the chinks and crannies that were left before and behind it, where there
was no room to extend our legs, the loose articles being tucked into the
ends. The canoe was thus as closely packed as a market basket. The
Indian sat on a crossbar in the stern, but we flat on the bottom with a
splint or chip behind our backs to protect them from the crossbar, and
one of us commonly paddled with the Indian.

Paddling along the eastern side of the lake in the still of the morning,
we soon saw a few sheldrakes, which the Indian called _Shecorways_, and
some peetweets on the rocky shore. We also saw and heard loons. It was
inspiriting to hear the regular dip of the paddles, as if they were our
fins or flippers, and to realize that we were at length fairly embarked.

Having passed the small rocky isles within two or three miles of the
foot of the lake, we had a short consultation respecting our course, and
inclined to the western shore for the sake of its lee; for otherwise,
if the wind should rise, it would be impossible for us to reach Mount
Kineo, which is about midway up the lake on the east side, but at its
narrowest part, where probably we could recross if we took the western
side. The wind is the chief obstacle to crossing the lakes, especially
in so small a canoe. The Indian remarked several times that he did not
like to cross the lakes "in littlum canoe," but nevertheless, "just as
we say, it made no odds to him."

Moosehead Lake is twelve miles wide at the widest place, and thirty
miles long in a direct line, but longer as it lies. Paddling near the
shore, we frequently heard the _pe-pe_ of the olive-sided flycatcher,
also the wood pewee and the kingfisher. The Indian reminding us that he
could not work without eating, we stopped to breakfast on the main shore
southwest of Deer Island. We took out our bags, and the Indian made a
fire under a very large bleached log, using white pine bark from a
stump, though he said that hemlock was better, and kindling with canoe
birch bark. Our table was a large piece of freshly peeled birch bark,
laid wrong side up, and our breakfast consisted of hard-bread, fried
pork, and strong coffee well sweetened, in which we did not miss the
milk.

While we were getting breakfast a brood of twelve black dippers,[2] half
grown, came paddling by within three or four rods, not at all alarmed;
and they loitered about as long as we stayed, now huddled close
together, now moving off in a long line, very cunningly.

Looking northward from this place it appeared as if we were entering a
large bay, and we did not know whether we should be obliged to diverge
from our course and keep outside a point which we saw, or should find a
passage between this and the mainland. It was misty dog-day weather, and
we had already penetrated a smaller bay of the same kind, and knocked
the bottom out of it, though we had been obliged to pass over a bar
between an island and the shore, where there was but just breadth and
depth enough to float the canoe, and the Indian had observed, "Very easy
makum bridge here," but now it seemed that if we held on we should be
fairly embayed. Presently, however, the mist lifted somewhat and
revealed a break in the shore northward. The Indian immediately
remarked, "I guess you and I go there."

This was his common expression instead of saying "we." He never
addressed us by our names, though curious to know how they were spelled
and what they meant. We called him Polis. He had already guessed very
accurately at our ages, and said that he was forty-eight.

After breakfast I emptied the melted pork that was left into the lake,
making what the sailors call a "slick," and watching to see how much it
spread over and smoothed the agitated surface. The Indian looked at it
a moment and said, "That make hard paddlum through; hold 'em canoe. So
say old times."

We hastily reloaded, putting the dishes loose in the bows, that they
might be at hand when wanted, and set out again. The western shore, near
which we paddled along, rose gently to a considerable height and was
everywhere densely covered with the forest, in which was a large
proportion of hard wood to enliven and relieve the fir and spruce.

The Indian said that the lichen which we saw hanging from the trees was
called _chorchorque_. We asked him the names of several birds which we
heard this morning. The thrush, which was quite common, and whose note
he imitated, he said was called _Adelungquamooktum_; but sometimes he
could not tell the name of some small bird which I heard and knew, but
he said, "I tell all the birds about here; can't tell littlum noise, but
I see 'em, then I can tell."

I observed that I should like to go to school to him to learn his
language, living on the Indian island the while; could not that be done?

"Oh, yer," he replied, "good many do so."

I asked how long he thought it would take. He said one week. I told him
that in this voyage I would tell him all I knew, and he should tell me
all he knew, to which he readily agreed.

Mount Kineo, which was generally visible, though occasionally concealed
by islands or the mainland in front, had a level bar of cloud concealing
its summit, and all the mountain-tops about the lake were cut off at the
same height. Ducks of various kinds were quite common, and ran over the
water before us as fast as a horse trots.

The Indian asked the meaning of _reality_, as near as I could make out
the word, which he said one of us had used; also of _interrent_, that
is, intelligent. I observed that he could rarely sound the letter r,
but used l, as also r for l sometimes; as _load_ for road, _pickelel_
for pickerel, _Soogle_ Island for Sugar Island. He generally added the
syllable _um_ to his words, as _paddlum_, etc.

On a point on the mainland where we landed to stretch our legs and look
at the vegetation, going inland a few steps, I discovered a fire still
glowing beneath its ashes, where somebody had breakfasted, and a bed of
twigs prepared for the following night. So I knew not only that they had
just left, but that they designed to return, and by the breadth of the
bed that there was more than one in the party. You might have gone
within six feet of these signs without seeing them. There grew the
beaked hazel, rue seven feet high, and red osier, whose bark the Indian
said was good to smoke, "tobacco before white people came to this
country, Indian tobacco."

The Indian was always very careful in approaching the shore, lest he
should injure his canoe on the rocks, letting it swing round slowly
sidewise, and was still more particular that we should not step into it
on shore, nor till it floated free, and then should step gently lest we
should open its seams, or make a hole in the bottom.

After passing Deer Island we saw the little steamer from Greenville, far
east in the middle of the lake. Sometimes we could hardly tell her from
an island which had a few trees on it. Here we were exposed to the wind
from over the whole breadth of the lake, and ran a little risk of being
swamped. While I had my eye fixed on the spot where a large fish had
leaped, we took in a gallon or two of water; but we soon reached the
shore and took the canoe over the bar at Sand-bar Island, a few feet
wide only, and so saved a considerable distance.

We crossed a broad bay and found the water quite rough. A very little
wind on these broad lakes raises a sea which will swamp a canoe. Looking
off from the shore, the surface may appear to be almost smooth a mile
distant, or if you see a few white crests they appear nearly level with
the rest of the lake, but when you get out so far, you may find quite a
sea running, and ere long, before you think of it, a wave will gently
creep up the side of the canoe and fill your lap, like a monster
deliberately covering you with its slime before it swallows you, or it
will strike the canoe violently and break into it. The same thing may
happen when the wind rises suddenly, though it were perfectly calm and
smooth there a few minutes before; so that nothing can save you, unless
you can swim ashore, for it is impossible to get into a canoe when it is
upset. Since you sit flat on the bottom, though the danger should not be
imminent, a little water is a great inconvenience, not to mention the
wetting of your provisions. We rarely crossed even a bay directly, from
point to point, when there was wind, but made a slight curve
corresponding somewhat to the shore, that we might the sooner reach it
if the wind increased.

When the wind is aft, and not too strong, the Indian makes a spritsail
of his blanket. He thus easily skims over the whole length of this lake
in a day.

The Indian paddled on one side, and one of us on the other, to keep the
canoe steady, and when he wanted to change hands he would say, "T' other
side." He asserted, in answer to our questions, that he had never upset
a canoe himself, though he may have been upset by others.

Think of our little eggshell of a canoe tossing across that great lake,
a mere black speck to the eagle soaring above it!

My companion trailed for trout as we paddled along, but, the Indian
warning him that a big fish might upset us, for there are some very
large ones there, he agreed to pass the line quickly to the stern if he
had a bite.

While we were crossing this bay, where Mount Kineo rose dark before us
within two or three miles, the Indian repeated the tradition respecting
this mountain's having anciently been a cow moose--how a mighty Indian
hunter succeeded in killing this queen of the moose tribe with great
difficulty, while her calf was killed somewhere among the islands in
Penobscot Bay, and, to his eyes, this mountain had still the form of the
moose in a reclining posture. He told this at some length and with
apparent good faith, and asked us how we supposed the hunter could have
killed such a mighty moose as that. An Indian tells such a story as if
he thought it deserved to have a good deal said about it, only he has
not got it to say, and so he makes up for the deficiency by a drawling
tone, long-windedness, and a dumb wonder which he hopes will be
contagious.

We approached the land again through pretty rough water, and then
steered directly across the lake at its narrowest part to the eastern
side, and were soon partly under the lee of the mountain, having
paddled about twenty miles. It was now about noon.

We designed to stop there that afternoon and night, and spent half an
hour looking along the shore northward for a suitable place to camp. At
length, by going half a dozen rods into the dense spruce and fir wood on
the side of the mountain almost as dark as a cellar, we found a place
sufficiently clear and level to lie down on, after cutting away a few
bushes. The Indian cleared a path to it from the shore with his axe, and
we then carried up all our baggage, pitched our tent, and made our bed,
in order to be ready for foul weather, which then threatened us, and for
the night. He gathered a large armful of fir twigs, breaking them off,
which he said were the best for our bed, partly, I thought, because they
were the largest and could be most rapidly collected. It had been
raining more or less for four or five days, and the wood was even damper
than usual, but he got dry bark from the under side of a dead leaning
hemlock, which he said he could always do.

This noon his mind was occupied with a law question, and I referred him
to my companion, who was a lawyer. It appeared that he had been buying
land lately--I think it was a hundred acres--but there was probably an
incumbrance to it, somebody else claiming to have bought some grass on
it for this year. He wished to know to whom the grass belonged, and was
told that if the other man could prove that he bought the grass before
he, Polis, bought the land, the former could take it whether the latter
knew it or not. To which he only answered, "Strange!" He went over this
several times, fairly sat down to it, with his back to a tree, as if he
meant to confine us to this topic henceforth; but as he made no headway,
only reached the jumping-off place of his wonder at white men's
institutions after each explanation, we let the subject die.

He said that he had fifty acres of grass, potatoes, etc., somewhere
above Oldtown, besides some about his house; that he hired a good deal
of his work, hoeing, etc., and preferred white men to Indians because
"they keep steady and know how."

After dinner we returned southward along the shore, in the canoe, on
account of the difficulty of climbing over the rocks and fallen trees,
and began to ascend the mountain along the edge of the precipice. But, a
smart shower coming up just then, the Indian crept under his canoe,
while we, protected by our rubber coats, proceeded to botanize. So we
sent him back to the camp for shelter, agreeing that he should come for
us with his canoe toward night. It had rained a little in the forenoon,
and we trusted that this would be the clearing-up shower, which it
proved; but our feet and legs were thoroughly wet by the bushes. The
clouds breaking away a little, we had a glorious wild view, as we
ascended, of the broad lake with its numerous forest-clad islands
extending beyond our sight both north and south, and the boundless
forest undulating away from its shores on every side, as densely packed
as a rye-field and enveloping nameless mountains in succession. It was a
perfect lake of the woods.

Looking southward, the heavens were completely overcast, the mountains
capped with clouds, and the lake generally wore a dark and stormy
appearance, but from its surface six or eight miles distant there was
reflected upward through the misty air a bright blue tinge from the
unseen sky of another latitude beyond. They probably had a clear sky
then at the south end of the lake.

Again we mistook a little rocky islet seen through the "drisk," with
some taller bare trunks or stumps on it, for the steamer with its
smoke-pipes, but as it had not changed its position after half an hour
we were undeceived. So much do the works of man resemble the works of
nature. A moose might mistake a steamer for a floating isle, and not be
scared till he heard its puffing or its whistle.

If I wished to see a mountain or other scenery under the most favorable
auspices, I would go to it in foul weather so as to be there when it
cleared up. We are then in the most suitable mood, and nature is most
fresh and inspiring. There is no serenity so fair as that which is just
established in a tearful eye.

Jackson, in his "Report on the Geology of Maine," says: "Hornstone,
which will answer for flints, occurs in various parts of the State. The
largest mass of this stone known in the world is Mount Kineo, upon
Moosehead Lake, which appears to be entirely composed of it, and rises
seven hundred feet above the lake level. This variety of hornstone I
have seen in every part of New England in the form of Indian
arrow-heads, hatchets, chisels, etc., which were probably obtained from
this mountain by the aboriginal inhabitants of the country."

I have myself found hundreds of arrow-heads made of the same material.
It is generally slate-colored, with white specks, becoming a uniform
white where exposed to the light and air. I picked up a small thin piece
which had so sharp an edge that I used it as a knife, and, to see what I
could do, fairly cut off an aspen one inch thick with it, by bending it
and making many cuts; though I cut my fingers badly with the back of it
in the meanwhile.

From the summit of the precipice which forms the southern and eastern
sides of this mountain peninsula, five or six hundred feet high, we
probably might have jumped down to the water, or to the seemingly
dwarfish trees on the narrow neck of land which connects it with the
main. It is a dangerous place to try the steadiness of your nerves.

The plants which attracted our attention on this mountain were the
mountain cinquefoil, abundant and in bloom still at the very base by
the waterside, very beautiful harebells overhanging the precipice,
bearberry, the Canada blueberry, wild holly, the great round-leafed
orchis, bunchberry, reddening as we ascended, green at the base of the
mountain, red at the top, and the small fern _Woodsia ilvensis_, growing
in tufts, now in fruit. Having explored the wonders of the mountain, and
the weather being now cleared up, we commenced the descent. We met the
Indian, puffing and panting, about one third of the way up, but thinking
that he must be near the top. On reaching the canoe we found that he had
caught a lake trout weighing about three pounds, while we were on the
mountain.

When we got to the camp, the canoe was taken out and turned over, and a
log laid across it to prevent its being blown away. The Indian cut some
large logs of damp and rotten wood to smoulder and keep fire through the
night. The trout was fried for supper.

Our tent was of thin cotton cloth and quite small, forming with the
ground a triangular prism closed at the rear end, six feet long, seven
wide, and four high, so that we could barely sit up in the middle. It
required two forked stakes, a smooth ridgepole, and a dozen or more pins
to pitch it. It kept off dew and wind and an ordinary rain, and answered
our purpose well enough. We reclined within it till bedtime, each with
his baggage at his head, or else sat about the fire, having hung our wet
clothes on a pole before the fire for the night.

As we sat there, just before night, looking out through the dusky wood,
the Indian heard a noise which he said was made by a snake. He imitated
it at my request, making a low whistling note--_pheet_--_pheet_--two or
three times repeated, somewhat like the peep of the hyla, but not so
loud. He said that he had never seen them while making it, but going to
the spot he finds the snake. This, he said, was a sign of rain. When I
had selected this place for our camp he had remarked that there were
snakes there. "But they won't do any hurt," I said.

"Oh, no," he answered, "just as you say; it makes no difference to me."

He lay on the right side of the tent, because, as he said, he was partly
deaf in one ear, and he wanted to lie with his good ear up. As we lay
there he inquired if I ever heard "Indian sing." I replied that I had
not often, and asked him if he would not favor us with a song. He
readily assented, and, lying on his back, with his blanket wrapped
around him, he commenced a slow, somewhat nasal, yet musical chant, in
his own language, which probably was taught his tribe long ago by the
Catholic missionaries. He translated it to us, sentence by sentence,
afterward. It proved to be a very simple religious exercise or hymn, the
burden of which was that there was only one God who ruled all the
world.

His singing carried me back to the period of the discovery of America,
when Europeans first encountered the simple faith of the Indian. There
was, indeed, a beautiful simplicity about it; nothing of the dark and
savage, only the mild and infantile. The sentiments of humility and
reverence chiefly were expressed.

It was a dense and damp spruce and fir wood in which we lay, and, except
for our fire, perfectly dark; and when I awoke in the night, I either
heard an owl from deeper in the forest behind us, or a loon from a
distance over the lake. Getting up some time after midnight to collect
the scattered brands together, while my companions were sound asleep, I
observed, partly in the fire, which had ceased to blaze, a perfectly
regular elliptical ring of light, about five inches in its shortest
diameter, six or seven in its longer, and from one eighth to one quarter
of an inch wide. It was fully as bright as the fire, but not reddish or
scarlet like a coal, but a white and slumbering light, like the
glowworm's. I saw at once that it must be phosphorescent wood, which I
had often heard of, but never chanced to see. Putting my finger on it,
with a little hesitation, I found that it was a piece of dead moosewood
which the Indian had cut off in a slanting direction the evening before.

Using my knife, I discovered that the light proceeded from that portion
of the sapwood immediately under the bark, and thus presented a regular
ring at the end, and when I pared off the bark and cut into the sap, it
was all aglow along the log. I was surprised to find the wood quite hard
and apparently sound, though probably decay had commenced in the sap,
and I cut out some little triangular chips, and, placing them in the
hollow of my hand, carried them into the camp, waked my companion, and
showed them to him. They lit up the inside of my hand, revealing the
lines and wrinkles, and appearing exactly like coals of fire raised to a
white heat.

I noticed that part of a decayed stump within four or five feet of the
fire, an inch wide and six inches long, soft and shaking wood, shone
with equal brightness.

I neglected to ascertain whether our fire had anything to do with this,
but the previous day's rain and long-continued wet weather undoubtedly
had.

I was exceedingly interested by this phenomenon. It could hardly have
thrilled me more if it had taken the form of letters, or of the human
face. I little thought that there was such a light shining in the
darkness of the wilderness for me.

The next day the Indian told me their name for the
light--_artoosoqu'_--and on my inquiring concerning the will-o'-the-wisp
he said that his "folks" sometimes saw fires passing along at various
heights, even as high as the trees, and making a noise. I was prepared
after this to hear of the most startling and unimagined phenomena
witnessed by "his folks," they are abroad at all hours and seasons in
scenes so unfrequented by white men. Nature must have made a thousand
revelations to them which are still secrets to us.

I did not regret my not having seen this before, since I now saw it
under circumstances so favorable. I was in just the frame of mind to see
something wonderful, and this was a phenomenon adequate to my
circumstances and expectation, and it put me on the alert to see more
like it. I let science slide, and rejoiced in that light as if it had
been a fellow creature. A scientific _explanation_, as it is called,
would have been altogether out of place there. That is for pale
daylight. Science with its retorts would have put me to sleep; it was
the opportunity to be ignorant that I improved. It made a believer of me
more than before. I believed that the woods were not tenantless, but
choke-full of honest spirits as good as myself any day--not an empty
chamber in which chemistry was left to work alone, but an inhabited
house. It suggested, too, that the same experience always gives birth
to the same sort of belief or religion. One revelation has been made to
the Indian, another to the white man. I have much to learn of the
Indian, nothing of the missionary. I am not sure but all that would
tempt me to teach the Indian my religion would be his promise to teach
me _his_. Long enough I had heard of irrelevant things; now at length I
was glad to make acquaintance with the light that dwells in rotten wood.

I kept those little chips and wet them again the next night, but they
emitted no light.

FOOTNOTES:

[2] The name dipper is applied to several species of water-birds that
are notable for their skill in diving.




III

SATURDAY, JULY 25


At breakfast, the Indian, evidently curious to know what would be
expected of him the next day, asked me how I spent the Sunday when at
home. I told him that I commonly sat in my chamber reading, etc., in the
forenoon, and went to walk in the afternoon. At which he shook his head
and said, "Er, that is ver' bad."

"How do you spend it?" I asked.

He said that he did no work, that he went to church at Oldtown when he
was at home; in short, he did as he had been taught by the whites.

When we were washing the dishes in the lakes, many fishes came close up
to us to get the particles of grease.

The weather seemed to be more settled this morning, and we set out early
in order to finish our voyage up the lake before the wind arose. Soon
after starting, the Indian directed our attention to the Northeast
Carry, which we could plainly see, about thirteen miles distant. This
carry is a rude wooden railroad running north and south about two miles,
perfectly straight, from the lake to the Penobscot through a low tract,
with a clearing three or four rods wide. This opening appeared as a
clear bright, or light, point in the horizon, resting on the edge of the
lake. We should not have suspected it to be visible if the Indian had
not drawn our attention to it. It was a remarkable kind of light to
steer for--daylight seen through a vista in the forest--but visible as
far as an ordinary beacon by night.

We crossed a deep wide bay north of Kineo, leaving an island on our left
and keeping up the eastern side of the lake. We then crossed another
broad bay, which, as we could no longer observe the shore particularly,
afforded ample time for conversation. The Indian said that he had got
his money by hunting, mostly high up the West Branch of the Penobscot,
and toward the head of the St. John. He had hunted there from a boy, and
knew all about that region. His game had been beaver, otter, black cat
(or fisher), sable, moose, etc. Canada lynx were plenty yet in burnt
grounds. For food in the woods he uses partridges, ducks, dried moose
meat, hedgehog, etc. Loons, too, were good, only "bile 'em good."

Pointing into the bay he said that it was the way to various lakes which
he knew. Only solemn bear-haunted mountains with their great wooded
slopes were visible. The Indian said that he had been along there
several times. I asked him how he guided himself in the woods.

"Oh," said he, "I can tell good many ways."

When I pressed him further he answered, "Sometimes I lookum sidehill,"
and he glanced toward a high hill or mountain on the eastern shore;
"great difference between the north and south; see where the sun has
shone most. So trees--the large limbs bend toward south. Sometimes I
lookum locks" (rocks).

I asked what he saw on the rocks, but he did not describe anything in
particular, answering vaguely, in a mysterious or drawling tone, "bare
locks on lake shore--great difference between north, south, east, west
side--can tell what the sun has shone on."

"Suppose," said I, "that I should take you in a dark night right up here
into the middle of the woods a hundred miles, set you down, and turn you
round quickly twenty times, could you steer straight to Oldtown?"

"Oh, yer," said he, "have done pretty much same thing. I will tell you.
Some years ago I met an old white hunter at Millinocket; very good
hunter. He said he could go anywhere in the woods. He wanted to hunt
with me that day, so we start. We chase a moose all the forenoon, round
and round, till middle of afternoon, when we kill him. Then I said to
him, 'Now you go straight to camp.'

"He said, 'I can't do that. I don't know where I am.'

"'Where you think camp?' I asked.

"He pointed so. Then I laugh at him. I take the lead and go right off
the other way, cross our tracks many times, straight camp."

"How do you do that?" asked I.

"Oh, I can't tell _you_," he replied. "Great difference between me and
white man."

It appeared as if the sources of information were so various that he did
not give a distinct conscious attention to any one, and so could not
readily refer to any when questioned about it, but he found his way very
much as an animal does. Perhaps what is commonly called instinct in the
animal in this case is merely a sharpened and educated sense. Often,
when an Indian says, "I don't know," in regard to the route he is to
take, he does not mean what a white man would by those words, for his
Indian instinct may tell him still as much as the most confident white
man knows. He does not carry things in his head, nor remember the route
exactly, like a white man, but relies on himself at the moment. Not
having experienced the need of the other sort of knowledge--all labeled
and arranged--he has not acquired it.

The hunter with whom I talked in the stage knew some of the resources of
the Indian. He said that he steered by the wind, or by the limbs of the
hemlocks, which were largest on the south side; also sometimes, when he
knew that there was a lake near, by firing his gun and listening to hear
the direction and distance of the echo from over it.

As the forenoon advanced the wind increased. The last bay which we
crossed before reaching the desolate pier at the Northeast Carry, was
two or three miles over, and the wind was southwesterly. After going a
third of the way, the waves had increased so as occasionally to wash
into the canoe, and we saw that it was worse ahead. At first we might
have turned about, but were not willing to. It would have been of no use
to follow the course of the shore, for the waves ran still higher there
on account of the greater sweep the wind had. At any rate it would have
been dangerous now to alter our course, because the waves would have
struck us at an advantage. It will not do to meet them at right angles,
for then they will wash in both sides, but you must take them
quartering. So the Indian stood up in the canoe and exerted all his
skill and strength for a mile or two, while I paddled right along in
order to give him more steerage-way. For more than a mile he did not
allow a single wave to strike the canoe as it would, but turned it
quickly from this side to that, so that it would always be on or near
the crest of a wave when it broke, where all its force was spent, and we
merely settled down with it. At length I jumped out onto the end of the
pier against which the waves were dashing violently, in order to lighten
the canoe and catch it at the landing, which was not much sheltered, but
just as I jumped we took in two or three gallons of water. I remarked to
the Indian, "You managed that well," to which he replied: "Ver' few men
do that. Great many waves; when I look out for one, another come quick."

While the Indian went to get cedar bark, etc., to carry his canoe with,
we cooked the dinner on the shore in the midst of a sprinkling rain. He
prepared his canoe for carrying in this wise. He took a cedar shingle or
splint eighteen inches long and four or five wide, rounded at one end,
that the corners might not be in the way, and tied it with cedar bark by
two holes made midway, near the edge on each side, to the middle
crossbar of the canoe. When the canoe was lifted upon his head bottom
up, this shingle, with its rounded end uppermost, distributed the weight
over his shoulders and head, while a band of cedar bark, tied to the
crossbar on each side of the shingle, passed round his breast, and
another longer one, outside of the last, round his forehead; also a hand
on each side rail served to steer the canoe and keep it from rocking. He
thus carried it with his shoulders, head, breast, forehead, and both
hands, as if the upper part of his body were all one hand to clasp and
hold it. A cedar tree furnished all the gear in this case, as it had the
woodwork of the canoe. One of the paddles rested on the crossbars in the
bows. I took the canoe upon my head and found that I could carry it with
ease, but I let him carry it, not caring to establish a different
precedent. This shingle remained tied to the crossbar throughout the
voyage, was always ready for the carries, and also served to protect the
back of one passenger.

We were obliged to go over this carry twice, our load was so great. But
the carries were an agreeable variety, and we improved the opportunity
to gather the rare plants which we had seen, when we returned
empty-handed.

We reached the Penobscot about four o'clock, and found there some St.
Francis Indians encamped on the bank. They were making a canoe and
drying moose meat. Their camp was covered with spruce bark. They had a
young moose, taken in the river a fortnight before, confined in a sort
of cage of logs piled up cob-fashion, seven or eight feet high. It was
quite tame, about four feet high, and covered with moose flies. There
was a large quantity of cornel, red maple, and also willow and aspen
boughs, stuck through between the logs on all sides, butt ends out, and
on their leaves it was browsing. It looked at first as if it were in a
bower rather than a pen.

Our Indian said that _he_ used _black_ spruce roots to sew canoes with,
obtaining it from high lands or mountains. The St. Francis Indians
thought that _white_ spruce roots might be best. But the former said,
"No good, break, can't split 'em."

I told him I thought that I could make a canoe, but he expressed great
doubt of it; at any rate he thought that my work would not be "neat" the
first time.

Having reloaded, we paddled down the Penobscot. We saw a splendid yellow
lily by the shore, which I plucked. It was six feet high and had twelve
flowers, in two whorls, forming a pyramid. We afterward saw many more
thus tall along this stream, and on the East Branch. The Indian said
that the roots were good for soup, that is, to cook with meat, to
thicken it, taking the place of flour. They get them in the fall. I dug
some, and found a mass of bulbs pretty deep in the earth, two inches in
diameter, looking, and even tasting, somewhat like raw green corn on the
ear.

When we had gone about three miles down the Penobscot, we saw through
the tree-tops a thunder-shower coming up in the west, and we looked out
a camping-place in good season, about five o'clock.

I will describe the routine of camping. We generally told the Indian
that we would stop at the first suitable place, so that he might be on
the lookout for it. Having observed a clear, hard, and flat beach to
land on, free from mud, and from stones which would injure the canoe,
one would run up the bank to see if there were open and level space
enough for the camp between the trees, or if it could be easily cleared,
preferring at the same time a cool place, on account of insects.
Sometimes we paddled a mile or more before finding one to our minds, for
where the shore was suitable the bank would often be too steep, or else
too low and grassy, and therefore mosquitoey. We then took out the
baggage and drew up the canoe. The Indian cut a path to the spot we had
selected, which was usually within two or three rods of the water, and
we carried up our baggage.

One, perhaps, takes birch bark, always at hand, and dead dry wood, and
kindles a fire five or six feet in front of where we intend to lie. It
matters not, commonly, on which side this is, because there is little or
no wind in so dense a wood at that season; and then he gets a kettle of
water from the river, and takes out the pork, bread, coffee, etc., from
their several packages.

Another, meanwhile, having the axe, cuts down the nearest dead rock
maple or other dry hard wood, collecting several large logs to last
through the night, also a green stake, with a notch or fork to it, which
is slanted over the fire, perhaps resting on a rock or forked stake, to
hang the kettle on, and two forked stakes and a pole for the tent.

[Illustration: _Making a Camp in the Streamside Woodland_]

The third man pitches the tent, cuts a dozen or more pins with his knife
to fasten it down with, and then collects an armful or two of fir twigs,
arbor-vitæ, spruce, or hemlock, whichever is at hand, and makes the
bed, beginning at either end, and laying the twigs wrong side up, in
regular rows, covering the stub ends of the last row; first, however,
filling the hollows, if there are any, with coarser material.

Commonly, by the time the bed is made, or within fifteen or twenty
minutes, the water boils, the pork is fried, and supper is ready. We eat
this sitting on the ground, or a stump, around a large piece of birch
bark for a table, each holding a dipper in one hand and a piece of
ship-bread or fried pork in the other, frequently making a pass with his
hand, or thrusting his head into the smoke, to avoid the mosquitoes.

Next, pipes are lit by those who smoke, and veils are donned by those
who have them, and we hastily examine and dry our plants, anoint our
faces and hands, and go to bed.

Though you have nothing to do but see the country, there's rarely any
time to spare, hardly enough to examine a plant, before the night or
drowsiness is upon you.

Such was the ordinary experience, but this evening we had camped earlier
on account of the rain, and had more time. We found that our camp was on
an old indistinct supply-road, running along the river. What is called a
road there shows no ruts or trace of wheels, for they are not used; nor,
indeed, of runners, since they are used only in the winter when the snow
is several feet deep. It is only an indistinct vista through the wood,
which it takes an experienced eye to detect.

We had no sooner pitched our tent than the thunder-shower burst on us,
and we hastily crept under it, drawing our bags after us, curious to see
how much of a shelter our thin cotton roof was going to be in this
excursion. Though the violence of the rain forced a fine shower through
the cloth before it was fairly wetted and shrunk, with which we were
well bedewed, we managed to keep pretty dry, only a box of matches
having been left out and spoiled, and before we were aware of it the
shower was over, and only the dripping trees imprisoned us.

Wishing to see what fishes were in the river there, we cast our lines
over the wet bushes on the shore, but they were repeatedly swept down
the swift stream in vain. So, leaving the Indian, we took the canoe,
just before dark, and dropped down the river a few rods to fish at the
mouth of a sluggish brook. We pushed up this a rod or two, but were soon
driven off by the mosquitoes. While there we heard the Indian fire his
gun twice in rapid succession. His object was to clean out and dry it
after the rain, and he then loaded it with ball, being now on ground
where he expected to meet with large game. This sudden loud crashing
noise in the still aisles of the forest affected me like an insult to
nature, or ill manners at any rate, as if you were to fire a gun in a
hall or temple. It was not heard far, however, except along the river,
the sound being rapidly hushed up or absorbed by the damp trees and
mossy ground.

The Indian made a little smothered fire of damp leaves close to the back
of the camp, that the smoke might drive through and keep out the
mosquitoes, but just before we fell asleep this suddenly blazed up and
came near setting fire to the tent.




IV

SUNDAY, JULY 26


The note of the white-throated sparrow was the first heard in the
morning, and with this all the woods rang. Though commonly unseen, their
simple _ah, te-te-te, te-te-te, te-te-te_, so sharp and piercing, was as
distinct to the ear as the passage of a spark of fire shot into the
darkest of the forest would be to the eye. We were commonly aroused by
their lively strain very early. What a glorious time they must have in
that wilderness, far from mankind!

I told the Indian that we would go to church to Chesuncook this morning,
some fifteen miles. It was settled weather at last. A few swallows
flitted over the water, we heard Maryland yellow-throats along the
shore, the notes of the chickadee, and, I believe, redstarts.
Moose-flies of large size pursued us in midstream.

The Indian thought that we should lie by on Sunday. Said he, "We come
here lookum things, look all round, but come Sunday look up all that,
and then Monday look again."

He spoke of an Indian of his acquaintance who had been with some
ministers to Katahdin and had told him how they conducted. This he
described in a low and solemn voice. "They make a long prayer every
morning and night, and at every meal. Come Sunday, they stop 'em, no go
at all that day--keep still--preach all day--first one, then another,
just like church. Oh, ver' good men. One day going along a river, they
came to the body of a man in the water, drowned good while. They go
right ashore--stop there, go no farther that day--they have meeting
there, preach and pray just like Sunday. Then they go back and carry the
body with them. Oh, they ver' good men."

I judged from this account that their every camp was a camp-meeting, and
that they wanted an opportunity to preach somewhere more than to see
Katahdin.

However, the Indian added, plying the paddle all the while, that if we
would go along he must go with us, he our man, and he suppose that if he
no takum pay for what he do Sunday then ther's no harm, but if he takum
pay then wrong. I told him that he was stricter than white men.
Nevertheless, I noticed that he did not forget to reckon in the Sundays
at last.

He appeared to be a very religious man, and said his prayers in a loud
voice, in Indian, kneeling before the camp, morning and
evening--sometimes scrambling up in haste when he had forgotten this,
and saying them with great rapidity. In the course of the day he
remarked, "Poor man rememberum God more than rich."

We soon passed the island where I had camped four years before. The
deadwater, a mile or two below it, the Indian said was "a great place
for moose." We saw the grass bent where a moose came out the night
before, and the Indian said that he could smell one as far as he could
see him, but he added that if he should see five or six to-day close by
canoe he no shoot 'em. Accordingly, as he was the only one of the party
who had a gun, or had come a-hunting, the moose were safe.

Just below this a cat owl flew heavily over the stream, and he, asking
if I knew what it was, imitated very well the common _hoo, hoo, hoo,
hoorer, hoo_, of our woods.

We carried a part of the baggage about Pine Stream Falls, while the
Indian went down in the canoe. A Bangor merchant had told us that two
men in his employ were drowned some time ago while passing these falls
in a bateau, and a third clung to a rock all night and was taken off in
the morning. There were magnificent great purple fringed orchises on
this carry and the neighboring shores. I measured the largest canoe
birch which I saw in this journey near the end of the carry. It was
fourteen and one half feet in circumference at two feet from the ground,
but at five feet divided into three parts. The Indian cut a small woody
knob as big as a filbert from the trunk of a fir, apparently an old
balsam vesicle filled with wood, which he said was good medicine.

After we had embarked and gone half a mile, my companion remembered that
he had left his knife, and we paddled back to get it, against the strong
and swift current. This taught us the difference between going up and
down the stream, for while we were working our way back a quarter of a
mile, we should have gone down a mile and half at least. So we landed,
and while he and the Indian were gone back for it, I watched the motions
of the foam, a kind of white waterfowl near the shore, forty or fifty
rods below. It alternately appeared and disappeared behind the rock,
being carried round by an eddy.

Immediately below these falls was the Chesuncook Deadwater, caused by
the flowing back of the lake. As we paddled slowly over this, the Indian
told us a story of his hunting thereabouts, and something more
interesting about himself. It appeared that he had represented his tribe
at Augusta, and once at Washington. He had a great idea of education,
and would occasionally break out into such expressions as this,
"Kademy--good thing--I suppose they usum Fifth Reader there. You been
college?"

We steered across the northwest end of the lake. It is an agreeable
change to cross a lake after you have been shut up in the woods, not
only on account of the greater expanse of water, but also of sky. It is
one of the surprises which Nature has in store for the traveler in the
forest. To look down, in this case, over eighteen miles of water was
liberating and civilizing even. The lakes also reveal the mountains, and
give ample scope and range to our thought. Already there were half a
dozen log huts about this end of the lake, though so far from a road. In
these woods the earliest settlements are clustering about the lakes,
partly, I think, for the sake of the neighborhood as the oldest
clearings. Water is a pioneer which the settler follows, taking
advantage of its improvements.

About noon we turned northward up a broad kind of estuary, and at its
northeast corner found the Caucomgomoc River, and after going about a
mile from the lake reached the Umbazookskus. Our course was up the
Umbazookskus, but as the Indian knew of a good camping-place, that is, a
cool place where there were few mosquitoes, about half a mile farther up
the Caucomgomoc, we went thither. So quickly we changed the civilizing
sky of Chesuncook for the dark wood of the Caucomgomoc. On reaching the
Indian's camping-ground on the south side, where the bank was about a
dozen feet high, I read on the trunk of a fir tree blazed by an axe an
inscription in charcoal which had been left by him. It was surmounted by
a drawing of a bear paddling a canoe, which he said was the sign used by
his family always. The drawing, though rude, could not be mistaken for
anything but a bear, and he doubted my ability to copy it. The
inscription ran thus. I interline the English of his Indian as he gave
it to me.

      (The figure of a bear in a boat.)
                July 26
                 1853

               _niasoseb_
             We alone Joseph
               _Polis  elioi_
                Polis  start
               _sia  olta_
                for  Oldtown
               _onke  ni_
                right away
               _quambi_

                 July 15
                  1855
               _niasoseb_

He added now below:--

                  1857
                 July 26
                Jo. Polis

This was one of his homes. I saw where he had sometimes stretched his
moose-hides on the sunny north side of the river where there was a
narrow meadow.

After we had selected a place for our camp, and kindled our fire, almost
exactly on the site of the Indian's last camp here, he, looking up,
observed, "That tree danger."

It was a dead part, more than a foot in diameter, of a large canoe
birch, which branched at the ground. This branch, rising thirty feet or
more, slanted directly over the spot which we had chosen for our bed. I
told him to try it with his axe, but he could not shake it perceptibly,
and, therefore, seemed inclined to disregard it, and my companion
expressed his willingness to run the risk. But it seemed to me that we
should be fools to lie under it, for though the lower part was firm,
the top, for aught we knew, might be just ready to fall, and we should
at any rate be very uneasy if the wind arose in the night. It is a
common accident for men camping in the woods to be killed by a falling
tree. So the camp was moved to the other side of the fire.

The Indian said that the Umbazookskus, being a dead stream with broad
meadows, was a good place for moose, and he frequently came a-hunting
here, being out alone three weeks or more from Oldtown. He sometimes,
also, went a-hunting to the Seboois Lakes, taking the stage, with his
gun and ammunition, axe and blankets, hard-bread and pork, perhaps for a
hundred miles of the way, and jumped off at the wildest place on the
road, where he was at once at home, and every rod was a tavern-site for
him. Then, after a short journey through the woods, he would build a
spruce-bark canoe in one day, putting but few ribs into it, that it
might be light, and, after doing his hunting with it on the lakes,
would return with his furs the same way he had come. Thus you have an
Indian availing himself of the advantages of civilization, without
losing any of his woodcraft, but proving himself the more successful
hunter for it.

This man was very clever and quick to learn anything in his line. Our
tent was of a kind new to him, but when he had once seen it pitched it
was surprising how quickly he would find and prepare the pole and forked
stakes to pitch it with, cutting and placing them right the first time,
though I am sure that the majority of white men would have blundered
several times.

Now I thought I would observe how he spent his Sunday. While I and my
companion were looking about at the trees and river he went to sleep.
Indeed, he improved every opportunity to get a nap, whatever the day.

Rambling about the woods at this camp, I noticed that they consisted
chiefly of firs, spruce, red maple, birch, and, along the river, the
hoary alder. I could trace the outlines of large birches that had fallen
long ago, collapsed and rotted and turned to soil, by faint
yellowish-green lines of featherlike moss, eighteen inches wide and
twenty or thirty feet long, crossed by other similar lines.

Wild as it was, it was hard for me to get rid of the associations of the
settlements. Any steady and monotonous sound, to which I did not
distinctly attend, passed for a sound of human industry. The waterfalls
which I heard were not without their dams and mills to my imagination;
and several times I found that I had been regarding the steady rushing
sound of the wind from over the woods beyond the rivers as that of a
train of cars. Our minds anywhere, when left to themselves, are always
thus busily drawing conclusions from false premises.

I asked the Indian to make us a sugar-bowl of birch bark, which he did,
using the great knife which dangled in a sheath from his belt; but the
bark broke at the corners when he bent it up, and he said it was not
good--that there was a great difference in this respect between the bark
of one canoe birch and that of another.

My companion, wishing to distinguish between the black and white spruce,
asked Polis to show him a twig of the latter, which he did at once,
together with the black; indeed, he could distinguish them about as far
as he could see them. As the two twigs appeared very much alike, my
companion asked the Indian to point out the difference; whereupon the
latter, taking the twigs, instantly remarked, as he passed his hand over
them successively in a stroking manner, that the white was rough, that
is, the needles stood up nearly perpendicular, but the black smooth,
that is, as if bent down. This was an obvious difference, both to sight
and touch.

I asked him to get some black spruce root and make some thread.
Whereupon, without looking up at the trees overhead, he began to grub in
the ground, instantly distinguishing the black spruce roots, and cutting
off a slender one, three or four feet long, and as big as a pipestem, he
split the end with his knife, and taking a half between the thumb and
forefinger of each hand, rapidly separated its whole length into two
equal semi-cylindrical halves. Then, giving me another root, he said,
"You try."

But in my hands it immediately ran off one side, and I got only a very
short piece. Though it looked easy, I found that there was a great art
in splitting these roots. The split is skillfully humored by bending
short with this hand or that, and so kept in the middle. He then took
off the bark from each half, pressing a short piece of cedar bark
against the convex side with both hands, while he drew the root upward
with his teeth. An Indian's teeth are strong, and I noticed that he
used his often where we should have used a hand. They amounted to a
third hand. He thus obtained in a moment a very neat, tough, and
flexible string, which he could tie into a knot, or make into a fishline
even. He said that you would be obliged to give half a dollar for spruce
root enough for a canoe, thus prepared.

He had discovered the day before that his canoe leaked a little, and
said that it was owing to stepping into it violently. I asked him where
he would get pitch to mend it with, for they commonly use hard pitch,
obtained of the whites at Oldtown. He said that he could make something
very similar, and equally good, of material which we had with us; and he
wished me to guess what. But I could not, and he would not tell me,
though he showed me a ball of it when made, as big as a pea and like
black pitch, saying, at last, that there were some things which a man
did not tell even his wife.

Being curious to see what kind of fishes there were in this dark, deep,
sluggish river, I cast in my line just before night, and caught several
small sucker-like fishes, which the Indian at once rejected, saying that
they were good for nothing. Also, he would not touch a pout, which I
caught, and said that neither Indians nor whites thereabouts ever ate
them. But he said that some small silvery fishes, which I called white
chivin, were the best fish in the Penobscot waters, and if I would toss
them up the bank to him, he would cook them for me. After cleaning them,
not very carefully, leaving the heads on, he laid them on the coals and
so broiled them.

[Illustration: _Fishing_]

Returning from a short walk, he brought a vine in his hand, saying that
it made the best tea of anything in the woods. It was the creeping
snowberry, which was quite common there, its berries just grown. So we
determined to have some tea made of this. It had a slight
checkerberry flavor, and we both agreed that it was really better
than the black tea which we had brought. We thought it quite a
discovery, and that it might well be dried and sold in the shops. I for
one, however, am not an old tea-drinker and cannot speak with authority
to others. The Indian said that they also used for tea a certain herb
which grew in low ground, which he did not find there, and Labrador tea;
also hemlock leaves, the last especially in winter when the other plants
were covered with snow; and various other things. We could have had a
new kind of tea every night.

Just before night we saw a _musquash_, the only one we saw in this
voyage, swimming downward on the opposite side of the stream. The
Indian, wishing to get one to eat, hushed us, saying, "Stop, me call
'em"; and, sitting flat on the bank, he began to make a curious
squeaking, wiry sound with his lips, exerting himself considerably. I
was greatly surprised--thought that I had at last got into the
wilderness, and that he was a wild man indeed, to be talking to a
musquash! I did not know which of the two was the strangest to me. He
seemed suddenly to have quite forsaken humanity, and gone over to the
musquash side. The musquash, however, as near as I could see, did not
turn aside, and the Indian said that he saw our fire; but it was evident
that he was in the habit of calling the musquash to him, as he said. An
acquaintance of mine who was hunting moose in these woods a month after
this, tells me that his Indian in this way repeatedly called the
musquash within reach of his paddle in the moonlight, and struck at
them.

The Indian said a particularly long prayer this Sunday evening, as if to
atone for working in the morning.




V

MONDAY, JULY 27


Having rapidly loaded the canoe, which the Indian always carefully
attended to, that it might be well trimmed, and each having taken a
look, as usual, to see that nothing was left, we set out again,
descending the Caucomgomoc, and turning northeasterly up the
Umbazookskus. This name, the Indian said, meant _Much Meadow River_. We
found it now very wide on account of the rains. The space between the
woods, chiefly bare meadow, was from fifty to two hundred rods in
breadth.

In the water on the meadows grew sedges, wool-grass, the common blue
flag abundantly, its flower just showing itself above the high water, as
if it were a blue water-lily, and higher in the meadows a great many
clumps of a peculiar narrow-leaved willow. Here also grew the red
osier, its large fruit now whitish.

It was unusual for the woods to be so distant from the shore, and there
was quite an echo from them, but when I was shouting in order to awake
it, the Indian reminded me that I should scare the moose, which he was
looking out for, and which we all wanted to see.

Having paddled several miles up the Umbazookskus, it suddenly contracted
to a mere brook, narrow and swift, the larches and other trees
approaching the bank and leaving no open meadow. We landed to get a
black spruce pole for pushing against the stream. The one selected was
quite slender, cut about ten feet long, merely whittled to a point, and
the bark shaved off.

While we were thus employed, two Indians in a canoe hove in sight round
the bushes, coming down stream. Our Indian knew one of them, an old man,
and fell into conversation with him. He belonged at the foot of
Moosehead. The other was of another tribe. They were returning from
hunting. I asked the younger if they had seen any moose, to which he
said "No"; but I, seeing the moose-hides sticking out from a great
bundle made with their blankets in the middle of the canoe, added, "Only
their hides."

As he was a foreigner, he may have wished to deceive me, for it is
against the law for white men and foreigners to kill moose in Maine at
this season. But perhaps he need not have been alarmed, for the
moose-wardens are not very particular. I heard of one who, being asked
by a white man going into the woods what he would say if he killed a
moose, answered, "If you bring me a quarter of it I guess you won't be
troubled." His duty being, as he said, only to prevent the
"indiscriminate" slaughter of them for their hides. I suppose that he
would consider it an _indiscriminate_ slaughter when a quarter was not
reserved for himself.

We continued along through the most extensive larch wood which I had
seen--tall and slender trees with fantastic branches. You do not find
straggling trees of this species here and there throughout the wood, but
rather a little forest of them. The same is the case with the white and
red pines and some other trees, greatly to the convenience of the
lumberer. They are of a social habit, growing in "veins," "clumps,"
"groups," or "communities," as the explorers call them, distinguishing
them far away, from the top of a hill or a tree, the white pines
towering above the surrounding forest, or else they form extensive
forests by themselves. I should have liked to come across a large
community of pines which had never been invaded by the lumbering army.

[Illustration: _The Red Squirrel_]

We saw some fresh moose-tracks along the shore. The stream was only from
one and one half to three rods wide, quite winding, with occasional
small islands, meadows, and some very swift and shallow places. When
we came to an island the Indian never hesitated which side to take, as
if the current told him which was the shortest and deepest. It was lucky
for us that the water was so high. We had to walk but once on this
stream, carrying a part of the load, at a swift and shallow reach, while
he got up with the canoe, not being obliged to take out, though he said
it was very strong water. Once or twice we passed the red wreck of a
bateau which had been stove some spring.

While making this portage I saw many splendid specimens of the great
purple fringed orchis, three feet high. It is remarkable that such
delicate flowers should here adorn these wilderness paths.

The Umbazookskus is called ten miles long. Having poled up the narrowest
part some three or four miles, the next opening in the sky was over
Umbazookskus Lake, which we suddenly entered about eleven o'clock in the
forenoon. It stretches north-westerly four or five miles. We crossed
the southeast end to the carry into Mud Pond.

Hodge, who went through this way to the St. Lawrence in the service of
the State, calls the portage here a mile and three quarters long. The
Indian said this was the wettest carry in the State, and as the season
was a very wet one we anticipated an unpleasant walk. As usual he made
one large bundle of the pork-keg, cooking-utensils, and other loose
traps, by tying them up in his blanket. We should be obliged to go over
the carry twice, and our method was to carry one half part way, and then
go back for the rest.

Our path ran close by the door of a log hut in a clearing at this end of
the carry, which the Indian, who alone entered it, found to be occupied
by a Canadian and his family, and that the man had been blind for a
year. This was the first house above Chesuncook, and was built here, no
doubt, because it was the route of the lumberers in the winter and
spring.

After a slight ascent from the lake through the springy soil of the
Canadian's clearing, we entered on a level and very wet and rocky path
through the dense evergreen forest, a loosely paved gutter merely, where
we went leaping from rock to rock and from side to side in the vain
attempt to keep out of the water and mud. It was on this carry that the
white hunter whom I met in the stage, as he told me, had shot two bears
a few months before. They stood directly in the path and did not turn
out for him. He said that at this season bears were found on the
mountains and hillsides in search of berries and were apt to be saucy.

Here commences what was called, twenty years ago, the best timber land
in the State. This very spot was described as "covered with the greatest
abundance of pine," but now this appeared to me, comparatively, an
uncommon tree there--and yet you did not see where any more could have
stood, amid the dense growth of cedar, fir, etc.

The Indian with his canoe soon disappeared before us, but ere long he
came back and told us to take a path which turned off westward, it being
better walking, and, at my suggestion, he agreed to leave a bough in the
regular carry at that place that we might not pass it by mistake.
Thereafter, he said, we were to keep the main path, and he added, "You
see 'em my tracks."

But I had not much faith that we could distinguish his tracks, since
others had passed over the carry within a few days. We turned off at the
right place, but were soon confused by numerous logging-paths coming
into the one we were on. However, we kept what we considered the main
path, though it was a winding one, and in this, at long intervals, we
distinguished a faint trace of a footstep. This, though comparatively
unworn, was at first a better, or, at least, a dryer road than the
regular carry which we had left. It led through an arbor-vitæ wilderness
of the grimmest character. The great fallen and rotting trees had been
cut through and rolled aside, and their huge trunks abutted on the path
on each side, while others still lay across it two or three feet high.

It was impossible for us to discern the Indian's trail in the elastic
moss, which, like a thick carpet, covered every rock and fallen tree, as
well as the earth. Nevertheless, I did occasionally detect the track of
a man, and I gave myself some credit for it. I carried my whole load at
once, a heavy knapsack, and a large rubber bag containing our bread and
a blanket, swung on a paddle, in all about sixty pounds; but my
companion preferred to make two journeys by short stages while I waited
for him. We could not be sure that we were not depositing our loads each
time farther off from the true path.

As I sat waiting for my companion, he would seem to be gone a long time,
and I had ample opportunity to make observations on the forest. I now
first began to be seriously molested by the black fly, a very small but
perfectly formed fly of that color, about one tenth of an inch long,
which I felt, and then saw, in swarms about me, as I sat by a wider and
more than usually doubtful fork in this dark forest path. Remembering
that I had a wash in my knapsack, prepared by a thoughtful hand in
Bangor, I made haste to apply it to my face and hands, and was glad to
find it effectual, as long as it was fresh, or for twenty minutes, not
only against black flies, but all the insects that molested us. They
would not alight on the part thus defended. It was composed of sweet oil
and oil of turpentine, with a little oil of spearmint, and camphor.
However, I finally concluded that the remedy was worse than the disease,
it was so disagreeable and inconvenient to have your face and hands
covered with such a mixture.

Three large slate-colored birds of the jay genus, the Canada jay, came
flitting silently and by degrees toward me, and hopped down the limbs
inquisitively to within seven or eight feet. Fish hawks from the lake
uttered their sharp whistling notes low over the top of the forest near
me, as if they were anxious about a nest there.

After I had sat there some time I noticed at this fork in the path a
tree which had been blazed, and the letters "Chamb. L." written on it
with red chalk. This I knew to mean Chamberlain Lake. So I concluded
that on the whole we were on the right course.

My companion having returned with his bag, we set forward again. The
walking rapidly grew worse and the path more indistinct, and at length
we found ourselves in a more open and regular swamp made less passable
than ordinary by the unusual wetness of the season. We sank a foot deep
in water and mud at every step, and sometimes up to our knees. The trail
was almost obliterated, being no more than a musquash leaves in similar
places when he parts the floating sedge. In fact, it probably was a
musquash trail in some places. We concluded that if Mud Pond was as
muddy as the approach to it was wet, it certainly deserved its name. It
would have been amusing to behold the dogged and deliberate pace at
which we entered that swamp, without interchanging a word, as if
determined to go through it, though it should come up to our necks.
Having penetrated a considerable distance into this and found a tussock
on which we could deposit our loads, though there was no place to sit,
my companion went back for the rest of his pack.

After a long while my companion came back, and the Indian with him. We
had taken the wrong road, and the Indian had lost us. He had gone back
to the Canadian's camp and asked him which way we had probably gone,
since he could better understand the ways of white men, and he told him
correctly that we had undoubtedly taken the supply road to Chamberlain
Lake. The Indian was greatly surprised that we should have taken what he
called a "tow," that is, tote, toting, or supply, road instead of a
carry path,--that we had not followed his tracks,--said it was
"strange," and evidently thought little of our woodcraft.

Having held a consultation and eaten a mouthful of bread, we concluded
that it would perhaps be nearer for us two now to keep on to Chamberlain
Lake, omitting Mud Pond, than to go back and start anew for the last
place, though the Indian had never been through this way and knew
nothing about it. In the meanwhile he would go back and finish carrying
over his canoe and bundle to Mud Pond, cross that, and go down its
outlet and up Chamberlain Lake, and trust to meet us there before night.
It was now a little after noon. He supposed that the water in which we
stood had flowed back from Mud Pond, which could not be far off
eastward, but was unapproachable through the dense cedar swamp.

Keeping on, we were ere long agreeably disappointed by reaching firmer
ground, and we crossed a ridge where the path was more distinct, but
there was never any outlook over the forest. At one place I heard a very
clear and piercing note from a small hawk as he dashed through the
tree-tops over my head. We also saw and heard several times the red
squirrel. This, according to the Indian, is the only squirrel found in
those woods, except a very few striped ones. It must have a solitary
time in that dark evergreen forest, where there is so little life,
seventy-five miles from a road as we had come. I wondered how he could
call any particular tree there his home, and yet he would run up the
stem of one out of the myriads, as if it were an old road to him. I
fancied that he must be glad to see us, though he did seem to chide us.
One of those somber fir and spruce woods is not complete unless you
hear from out its cavernous mossy and twiggy recesses his fine
alarum--his spruce voice, like the working of the sap through some crack
in a tree. Such an impertinent fellow would occasionally try to alarm
the wood about me.

"Oh," said I, "I am well acquainted with your family. I know your
cousins in Concord very well." But my overtures were vain, for he would
withdraw by his aerial turnpikes into a more distant cedar-top, and
spring his rattle again.

We entered another swamp, at a necessarily slow pace, where the walking
was worse than ever, not only on account of the water, but the fallen
timber, which often obliterated the indistinct trail entirely. The
fallen trees were so numerous that for long distances the route was
through a succession of small yards, where we climbed over fences as
high as our heads, down into water often up to our knees, and then over
another fence into a second yard, and so on. In many places the canoe
would have run if it had not been for the fallen timber. Again it would
be more open, but equally wet, too wet for trees to grow. It was a mossy
swamp, which it required the long legs of a moose to traverse, and it is
very likely that we scared some of them in our transit, though we saw
none. It was ready to echo the growl of a bear, the howl of a wolf, or
the scream of a panther; but when you get fairly into the middle of one
of these grim forests you are surprised to find that the larger
inhabitants are not at home commonly, but have left only a puny red
squirrel to bark at you. Generally speaking, a howling wilderness does
not howl; it is the imagination of the traveler that does the howling. I
did, however, see one dead porcupine. Perhaps he had succumbed to the
difficulties of the way. These bristly fellows are a very suitable small
fruit of such unkempt wildernesses.

Making a logging-road in the Maine woods is called "swamping" it, and
they who do the work are called "swampers." I now perceived the fitness
of the term. This was the most perfectly swamped of all the roads I ever
saw. Nature must have coöperated with art here. However, I suppose they
would tell you that this name took its origin from the fact that the
chief work of roadmakers in those woods is to make the swamps passable.
We came to a stream where the bridge, which had been made of logs tied
together with cedar bark, had been broken up, and we got over as we
could. Such as it was, this ruined bridge was the chief evidence that we
were on a path of any kind.

We then crossed another low rising ground, and I, who wore shoes, had an
opportunity to wring out my stockings, but my companion, who used boots,
had found that this was not a safe experiment for him, for he might not
be able to get his wet boots on again. He went over the whole ground, or
water, three times, for which reason our progress was very slow. Beside
that, the water softened our feet, and to some extent unfitted them for
walking.

As I sat waiting for him it would naturally seem an unaccountable time
that he was gone. Therefore, as I could see through the woods that the
sun was getting low, and it was uncertain how far the lake might be,
even if we were on the right course, and in what part of the world we
should find ourselves at nightfall, I proposed that I should push
through with what speed I could, leaving boughs to mark my path, and
find the lake and the Indian, if possible, before night, and send the
latter back to carry my companion's bag.

Having gone about a mile I heard a noise like the note of an owl, which
I soon discovered to be made by the Indian, and answering him, we soon
came together. He had reached the lake after crossing Mud Pond and
running some rapids below it, and had come up about a mile and a half
on our path. If he had not come back to meet us, we probably should not
have found him that night, for the path branched once or twice before
reaching this particular part of the lake. So he went back for my
companion and his bag. Having waded through another stream, where the
bridge of logs had been broken up and half floated away, we continued on
through alternate mud and water to the shores of Apmoojenegamook Lake,
which we reached in season for a late supper, instead of dining there,
as we had expected, having gone without our dinner.

It was at least five miles by the way we had come, and as my companion
had gone over most of it three times he had walked full a dozen miles.
In the winter, when the water is frozen and the snow is four feet deep,
it is no doubt a tolerable path to a footman. If you want an exact
recipe for making such a road, take one part Mud Pond, and dilute it
with equal parts of Umbazookskus and Apmoojenegamook; then send a
family of musquash through to locate it, look after the grades and
culverts, and finish it to their minds, and let a hurricane follow to do
the fencing.

We had come out on a point extending into Apmoojenegamook, or
Chamberlain Lake, where there was a broad, gravelly, and rocky shore,
encumbered with bleached logs and trees. We were rejoiced to see such
dry things in that part of the world. But at first we did not attend to
dryness so much as to mud and wetness. We all three walked into the lake
up to our middle to wash our clothes.

This was another noble lake, twelve miles long; if you add Telos Lake,
which, since the dam was built, has been connected with it by dead
water, it will be twenty; and it is apparently from a mile and a half to
two miles wide. We were about midway its length on the south side. We
could see the only clearing in these parts, called the "Chamberlain
Farm," with two or three log buildings close together, on the opposite
shore, some two and a half miles distant. The smoke of our fire on the
shore brought over two men in a canoe from the farm, that being a common
signal agreed on when one wishes to cross. It took them about half an
hour to come over, and they had their labor for their pains this time.

After putting on such dry clothes as we had, and hanging the others to
dry on the pole which the Indian arranged over the fire, we ate our
supper, and lay down on the pebbly shore with our feet to the fire
without pitching our tent, making a thin bed of grass to cover the
stones.

Here first I was molested by the little midge called the no-see-em,
especially over the sand at the water's edge, for it is a kind of
sand-fly. You would not observe them but for their light-colored wings.
They are said to get under your clothes and produce a feverish heat,
which I suppose was what I felt that night.

Our insect foes in this excursion were, first, mosquitoes, only
troublesome at night, or when we sat still on shore by day; second,
black flies (_simulium molestum_), which molested us more or less on the
carries by day, and sometimes in narrower parts of the stream; third,
moose-flies, stout brown flies much like a horsefly. They can bite
smartly, according to Polis, but are easily avoided or killed. Fourth,
the no-see-ems. Of all these, the mosquitoes are the only ones that
troubled me seriously, but as I was provided with a wash and a veil,
they have not made any deep impression.

The Indian would not use our wash to protect his face and hands, for
fear that it would hurt his skin, nor had he any veil. He, therefore,
suffered from insects throughout this journey more than either of us. He
regularly tied up his face in his handkerchief, and buried it in his
blanket, and he now finally lay down on the sand between us and the fire
for the sake of the smoke, which he tried to make enter his blanket
about his face, and for the same purpose he lit his pipe and breathed
the smoke into his blanket.

In the middle of the night we heard the voice of the loon, loud and
distinct, from far over the lake. It is a very wild sound, quite in
keeping with the place and the circumstances of the traveler, and very
unlike the voice of a bird. I could lie awake for hours listening to it,
it is so thrilling. When camping in such a wilderness as this, you are
prepared to hear sounds from some of its inhabitants which will give
voice to its wildness. Some idea of bears, wolves, or panthers runs in
your head naturally, and when this note is first heard very far off at
midnight, as you lie with your ear to the ground,--the forest being
perfectly still about you, you take it for granted that it is the voice
of a wolf or some other wild beast,--you conclude that it is a pack of
wolves baying the moon, or, perchance, cantering after a moose. It was
the unfailing and characteristic sound of those lakes.

Some friends of mine, who two years ago went up the Caucomgomoc River,
were serenaded by wolves while moose-hunting by moonlight. It was a
sudden burst, as if a hundred demons had broke loose,--a startling sound
enough, which, if any, would make your hair stand on end,--and all was
still again. It lasted but a moment, and you'd have thought there were
twenty of them, when probably there were only two or three. They heard
it twice only, and they said that it gave expression to the wilderness
which it lacked before. I heard of some men, who, while skinning a moose
lately in those woods, were driven off from the carcass by a pack of
wolves, which ate it up.

This of the loon--I do not mean its laugh, but its looning--is a
long-drawn call, as it were, sometimes singularly human to my
ear--_hoo-hoo-ooooo_, like the hallooing of a man on a very high key,
having thrown his voice into his head. I have heard a sound exactly like
it when breathing heavily through my own nostrils, half awake at ten at
night, suggesting my affinity to the loon; as if its language were but a
dialect of my own, after all. Formerly, when lying awake at midnight in
those woods, I had listened to hear some words or syllables of their
language, but it chanced that I listened in vain until I heard the cry
of the loon. I have heard it occasionally on the ponds of my native
town, but there its wildness is not enhanced by the surrounding scenery.

I was awakened at midnight by some heavy, low-flying bird, probably a
loon, flapping by close over my head along the shore. So, turning the
other side of my half-clad body to the fire, I sought slumber again.




VI

TUESDAY, JULY 28


When we awoke we found a heavy dew on our blankets. I lay awake very
early and listened to the clear, shrill _ah, te te, te te, te_ of the
white-throated sparrow, repeated at short intervals, without the least
variation, for half an hour, as if it could not enough express its
happiness.

We did some more washing in the lake this morning, and, with our clothes
hung about on the dead trees and rocks, the shore looked like
washing-day at home. The Indian, taking the hint, borrowed the soap,
and, walking into the lake, washed his only cotton shirt on his person,
then put on his pants and let it dry on him.

I observed that he wore a cotton shirt, originally white, a greenish
flannel one over it, but no waistcoat, flannel drawers, and strong
linen or duck pants, which also had been white, blue woolen stockings,
cowhide boots, and a Kossuth hat.[3] He carried no change of clothing,
but, putting on a stout, thick jacket, which he laid aside in the canoe,
and seizing a full-sized axe, his gun and ammunition, and a blanket,
which would do for a sail or knapsack, if wanted, and strapping on his
belt, which contained a large sheath-knife, he walked off at once, ready
to be gone all summer. This looked very independent--a few simple and
effective tools, and no rubber clothing. He was always the first ready
to start in the morning. Instead of carrying a large bundle of his own
extra clothing, etc., he brought back the greatcoats of moose tied up in
his blanket. I found that his outfit was the result of a long
experience, and in the main hardly to be improved on, unless by washing
and an extra shirt. Wanting a button here, he walked off to a place
where some Indians had recently encamped, and searched for one, but I
believe in vain.

Having softened our stiffened boots and shoes with the pork fat, the
usual disposition of what was left at breakfast, we crossed the lake,
steering in a diagonal direction northeastly about four miles to the
outlet. The Indian name, Apmoojenegamook, means lake that is crossed,
because the usual course lies across and not along it. We did not intend
to go far down the Allegash, but merely to get a view of the lakes which
are its source, and then return this way to the East Branch of the
Penobscot.

After reaching the middle of the lake, we found the waves pretty high,
and the Indian warned my companion, who was nodding, that he must not
allow himself to fall asleep in the canoe lest he should upset us;
adding, that when Indians want to sleep in a canoe, they lie down
straight on the bottom. But in this crowded one that was impossible.
However, he said that he would nudge him if he saw him nodding.

A belt of dead trees stood all around the lake, some far out in the
water, with others prostrate behind them, and they made the shore, for
the most part, almost inaccessible. This is the effect of the dam at the
outlet. Thus the natural sandy or rocky shore, with its green fringe,
was concealed and destroyed. We coasted westward along the north side,
searching for the outlet, about quarter of a mile distant from this
savage-looking shore, on which the waves were breaking violently,
knowing that it might easily be concealed amid this rubbish, or by the
overlapping of the shore. It is remarkable how little these important
gates to a lake are blazoned. There is no triumphal arch over the modest
inlet or outlet, but at some undistinguished point it trickles in or out
through the uninterrupted forest, almost as through a sponge.

We reached the outlet in about an hour, and carried over the dam there,
which is quite a solid structure, and about one quarter of a mile
farther there was a second dam. The result of this particular damming
about Chamberlain Lake is that the headwaters of the St. John are made
to flow by Bangor. They have thus dammed all the larger lakes, raising
their broad surfaces many feet, thus turning the forces of Nature
against herself, that they might float their spoils out of the country.
They rapidly run out of these immense forests all the finer and more
accessible pine timber, and then leave the bears to watch the decaying
dams, not clearing nor cultivating the land, nor making roads, nor
building houses, but leaving it a wilderness, as they found it. In many
parts only these dams remain, like deserted beaver dams. Think how much
land they have flowed without asking Nature's leave.

The wilderness experiences a sudden rise of all her streams and lakes.
She feels ten thousand vermin gnawing at the base of her noblest trees.
Many combining drag them off, jarring over the roots of the survivors,
and tumble them into the nearest stream, till, the fairest having
fallen, they scamper off to ransack some new wilderness, and all is
still again. It is as when a migrating army of mice girdles a forest of
pines. The chopper fells trees from the same motive that the mouse gnaws
them--to get his living. You tell me that he has a more interesting
family than the mouse. That is as it happens. He speaks of a "berth" of
timber, a good place for him to get into, just as a worm might.

When the chopper would praise a pine he will commonly tell you that the
one he cut was so big that a yoke of oxen stood on its stump; as if that
were what the pine had grown for, to become the footstool of oxen. In my
mind's eye I can see these unwieldy tame deer, with a yoke binding them
together, the brazen-tipped horns betraying their servitude, taking
their stand on the stump of each giant pine in succession throughout
this whole forest, and chewing their cud there, until it is nothing but
an ox-pasture, and run out at that. As if it were good for the oxen, and
some medicinal quality ascended into their nostrils. Or is their
elevated position intended merely as a symbol of the fact that the
pastoral comes next in order to the sylvan or hunter life?

The character of the logger's admiration is betrayed by his very mode of
expressing it. If he told all that was in his mind, he would say, "It
was so big that I cut it down, and then a yoke of oxen could stand on
its stump." He admires the log, the carcass or corpse, more than the
tree. Why, my dear sir, the tree might have stood on its own stump, and
a great deal more comfortably and firmly than a yoke of oxen can, if you
had not cut it down.

The Anglo-American can indeed cut down and grub up all this waving
forest, and make a stump speech on its ruins, but he cannot converse
with the spirit of the tree he fells, he cannot read the poetry and
mythology which retire as he advances. He ignorantly erases mythological
tablets in order to print his handbills and town-meeting warrants on
them. Before he has learned his a b c in the beautiful but mystic lore
of the wilderness he cuts it down, puts up a "deestrict" schoolhouse,
and introduces Webster's spelling-book.

Below the last dam, the river being swift and shallow, we two walked
about half a mile to lighten the canoe. I made it a rule to carry my
knapsack when I walked, and also to keep it tied to a crossbar when in
the canoe, that it might be found with the canoe if we should upset.

I heard the dog-day locust here, a sound which I had associated only
with more open, if not settled countries.

We were now fairly on the Allegash River. After perhaps two miles of
river we entered Heron Lake, scaring up forty or fifty young sheldrakes,
at the entrance, which ran over the water with great rapidity, as usual
in a long line.

This lake, judging from the map, is about ten miles long. We had entered
it on the southwest side, and saw a dark mountain northeast over the
lake which the Indian said was called Peaked Mountain, and used by
explorers to look for timber from. The shores were in the same ragged
and unsightly condition, encumbered with dead timber, both fallen and
standing, as in the last lake, owing to the dam on the Allegash below.
Some low points or islands were almost drowned.

I saw something white a mile off on the water, which turned out to be a
great gull on a rock, which the Indian would have been glad to kill and
eat. But it flew away long before we were near; and also a flock of
summer ducks that were about the rock with it. I asking him about
herons, since this was Heron Lake, he said that he found the blue
heron's nests in the hard-wood trees.

Rounding a point, we stood across a bay toward a large island three or
four miles down the lake. We met with shadflies midway, about a mile
from the shore, and they evidently fly over the whole lake. On Moosehead
I had seen a large devil's-needle half a mile from the shore, coming
from the middle of the lake, where it was three or four miles wide at
least. It had probably crossed.

We landed on the southeast side of the island, which was rather
elevated, and densely wooded, with a rocky shore, in season for an early
dinner. Somebody had camped there not long before and left the frame on
which they stretched a moose-hide. The Indian proceeded at once to cut a
canoe birch, slanted it up against another tree on the shore, tying it
with a withe, and lay down to sleep in its shade. We made this island
the limit of our excursion in this direction.

The next dam was about fifteen miles farther north down the Allegash. We
had been told in Bangor of a man who lived alone, a sort of hermit, at
that dam, to take care of it, who spent his time tossing a bullet from
one hand to the other, for want of employment. This sort of tit-for-tat
intercourse between his two hands, bandying to and fro a leaden subject,
seems to have been his symbol for society.

There was another island visible toward the north end of the lake, with
an elevated clearing on it; but we learned afterward that it was not
inhabited, had only been used as a pasture for cattle which summered in
these woods. This unnaturally smooth-shaven, squarish spot, in the midst
of the otherwise uninterrupted forest, only reminded us how uninhabited
the country was. You would sooner expect to meet a bear than an ox in
such a clearing. At any rate, it must have been a surprise to the bears
when they came across it. Such, seen far or near, you know at once to be
man's work, for Nature never does it. In order to let in the light to
the earth he clears off the forest on the hillsides and plains, and
sprinkles fine grass seed like an enchanter, and so carpets the earth
with a firm sward.

Polis had evidently more curiosity respecting the few settlers in those
woods than we. If nothing was said, he took it for granted that we
wanted to go straight to the next log hut. Having observed that we came
by the log huts at Chesuncook, and the blind Canadian's at the Mud Pond
carry, without stopping to communicate with the inhabitants, he took
occasion now to suggest that the usual way was, when you came near a
house, to go to it, and tell the inhabitants what you had seen or heard,
and then they told you what they had seen; but we laughed and said that
we had had enough of houses for the present, and had come here partly to
avoid them.

In the meanwhile, the wind, increasing, blew down the Indian's birch and
created such a sea that we found ourselves prisoners on the island, the
nearest shore being perhaps a mile distant, and we took the canoe out
to prevent its drifting away. We did not know but we should be compelled
to spend the rest of the day and the night there. At any rate, the
Indian went to sleep again, my companion busied himself drying his
plants, and I rambled along the shore westward, which was quite stony,
and obstructed with fallen bleached or drifted trees for four or five
rods in width.

Our Indian said that he was a doctor, and could tell me some medicinal
use for every plant I could show him. I immediately tried him. He said
that the inner bark of the aspen was good for sore eyes; and so with
various other plants, proving himself as good as his word. According to
his account, he had acquired such knowledge in his youth from a wise old
Indian with whom he associated, and he lamented that the present
generation of Indians "had lost a great deal."

He said that the caribou was a "very great runner," that there were none
about this lake now, though there used to be many, and, pointing to the
belt of dead trees caused by the dams, he added: "No likum stump. When
he sees that he scared."

Pointing southeasterly over the lake and distant forest, he observed,
"Me go Oldtown in three days."

I asked how he would get over the swamps and fallen trees. "Oh," said
he, "in winter all covered, go anywhere on snowshoes, right across
lakes."

What a wilderness walk for a man to take alone! None of your half-mile
swamps, none of your mile-wide woods merely, as on the skirts of our
towns, without hotels, only a dark mountain or a lake for guide-board
and station, over ground much of it impassable in summer!

Here was traveling of the old heroic kind over the unaltered face of
nature. From the Allegash River, across great Apmoojenegamook, he takes
his way under the bear-haunted slopes of Katahdin to Pamadumcook and
Millinocket's inland seas, and so to the forks of the Nicketow, ever
pushing the boughs of the fir and spruce aside, with his load of furs,
contending day and night, night and day, with the shaggy demon
vegetation, traveling through the mossy graveyard of trees. Or he could
go by "that rough tooth of the sea" Kineo, great source of arrows and of
spears to the ancients, when weapons of stone were used. Seeing and
hearing moose, caribou, bears, porcupines, lynxes, wolves, and panthers.
Places where he might live and die and never hear of the United
States--never hear of America.

There is a lumberer's road called the Eagle Lake Road from the Seboois
to the east side of this lake. It may seem strange that any road through
such a wilderness should be passable, even in winter, but at that
season, wherever lumbering operations are actively carried on, teams are
continually passing on the single track, and it becomes as smooth almost
as a railway. I am told that in the Aroostook country the sleds are
required by law to be of one width, four feet, and sleighs must be
altered to fit the track, so that one runner may go in one rut and the
other follow the horse. Yet it is very bad turning out.

We had for some time seen a thunder-shower coming up from the west over
the woods of the island, and heard the muttering of the thunder, though
we were in doubt whether it would reach us; but now the darkness rapidly
increasing, and a fresh breeze rustling the forest, we hastily put up
the plants which we had been drying, and with one consent made a rush
for the tent material and set about pitching it. A place was selected
and stakes and pins cut in the shortest possible time, and we were
pinning it down lest it should be blown away, when the storm suddenly
burst over us.

As we lay huddled together under the tent, which leaked considerably
about the sides, with our baggage at our feet, we listened to some of
the grandest thunder which I ever heard--rapid peals, round and plump,
bang, bang, bang, in succession, like artillery from some fortress in
the sky; and the lightning was proportionally brilliant. The Indian
said, "It must be good powder." All for the benefit of the moose and us,
echoing far over the concealed lakes. I thought it must be a place which
the thunder loved, where the lightning practiced to keep its hand in,
and it would do no harm to shatter a few pines.

Looking out, I perceived that the violent shower falling on the lake had
almost instantaneously flattened the waves, and, it clearing off, we
resolved to start immediately, before the wind raised them again.

Getting outside, I said that I saw clouds still in the southwest, and
heard thunder there. We embarked, nevertheless, and paddled rapidly back
toward the dams.

At the outlet of Chamberlain Lake we were overtaken by another gusty
rainstorm, which compelled us to take shelter, the Indian under his
canoe on the bank, and we under the edge of the dam. However, we were
more scared than wet. From my covert I could see the Indian peeping out
from beneath his canoe to see what had become of the rain. When we had
taken our respective places thus once or twice, the rain not coming down
in earnest, we commenced rambling about the neighborhood, for the wind
had by this time raised such waves on the lake that we could not stir,
and we feared that we should be obliged to camp there. We got an early
supper on the dam and tried for fish, while waiting for the tumult to
subside. The fishes were not only few, but small and worthless.

At length, just before sunset, we set out again. It was a wild evening
when we coasted up the north side of this Apmoojenegamook Lake. One
thunder-storm was just over, and the waves which it had raised still
running with violence, and another storm was now seen coming up in the
southwest, far over the lake; but it might be worse in the morning, and
we wished to get as far as possible on our way while we might.

It blew hard against the shore, which was as dreary and harborless as
you can conceive. For half a dozen rods in width it was a perfect maze
of submerged trees, all dead and bare and bleaching, some standing half
their original height, others prostrate, and criss-across, above or
beneath the surface, and mingled with them were loose trees and limbs
and stumps, beating about. We could not have landed if we would, without
the greatest danger of being swamped; so blow as it might, we must
depend on coasting. It was twilight, too, and that stormy cloud was
advancing rapidly in our rear. It was a pleasant excitement, yet we were
glad to reach, at length, the cleared shore of the Chamberlain Farm.

We landed on a low and thinly wooded point, and while my companions
were pitching the tent, I ran up to the house to get some sugar, our
six pounds being gone. It was no wonder they were, for Polis had a sweet
tooth. He would first fill his dipper nearly a third full of sugar, and
then add the coffee to it. Here was a clearing extending back from the
lake to a hilltop, with some dark-colored log buildings and a storehouse
in it, and half a dozen men standing in front of the principal hut,
greedy for news. Among them was the man who tended the dam on the
Allegash and tossed the bullet. He, having charge of the dams, and
learning that we were going to Webster Stream the next day, told me that
some of their men, who were haying at Telos Lake, had shut the dam at
the canal there in order to catch trout, and if we wanted more water to
take us through the canal we might raise the gate.

They were unwilling to spare more than four pounds of brown
sugar,--unlocking the storehouse to get it,--since they only kept a
little for such cases as this, and they charged twenty cents a pound for
it, which certainly it was worth to get it up there.

When I returned to the shore it was quite dark, but we had a rousing
fire to warm and dry us by, and a snug apartment behind it. The Indian
went up to the house to inquire after a brother who had been absent
hunting a year or two, and while another shower was beginning, I groped
about cutting spruce and arbor-vitæ twigs for a bed. I preferred the
arbor-vitæ on account of its fragrance, and spread it particularly thick
about the shoulders. It is remarkable with what pure satisfaction the
traveler in those woods will reach his camping-ground on the eve of a
tempestuous night like this, as if he had got to his inn, and, rolling
himself in his blanket, stretch himself on his six-feet-by-two bed of
dripping fir twigs, with a thin sheet of cotton for roof, snug as a
meadow mouse in its nest. Invariably our best nights were those when it
rained, for then we were not troubled with mosquitoes.

You soon come to disregard rain on such excursions, at least in the
summer, it is so easy to dry yourself, supposing a dry change of
clothing is not to be had. You can much sooner dry you by such a fire as
you can make in the woods than in anybody's kitchen, the fireplace is so
much larger, and wood so much more abundant. A shed-shaped tent will
catch and reflect the heat, and you may be drying while you are
sleeping.

Some who have leaky roofs in the towns may have been kept awake, but we
were soon lulled asleep by a steady, soaking rain, which lasted all
night.

FOOTNOTES:

[3] A soft felt hat of the kind worn by the Hungarian patriot, Kossuth,
on his visit to this country in 1851-52.




VII

WEDNESDAY, JULY 29


When we awoke it had done raining, though it was still cloudy. The fire
was put out, and the Indian's boots, which stood under the eaves of the
tent, were half full of water. He was much more improvident in such
respects than either of us, and he had to thank us for keeping his
powder dry. We decided to cross the lake at once, before breakfast; and
before starting I took the bearing of the shore which we wished to
strike, about three miles distant, lest a sudden misty rain should
conceal it when we were midway.

Though the bay in which we were was perfectly quiet and smooth, we found
the lake already wide awake outside, but not dangerously or unpleasantly
so. Nevertheless, when you get out on one of those lakes in a canoe like
this, you do not forget that you are completely at the mercy of the
wind, and a fickle power it is. The playful waves may at any time become
too rude for you in their sport, and play right on over you. After much
steady paddling and dancing over the dark waves we found ourselves in
the neighborhood of the southern land. We breakfasted on a rocky point,
the first convenient place that offered.

It was well enough that we crossed thus early, for the waves now ran
quite high, but beyond this point we had comparatively smooth water. You
can commonly go along one side or the other of a lake, when you cannot
cross it.

My companion and I, having a discussion on some point of ancient
history, were amused by the attitude which the Indian, who could not
tell what we were talking about, assumed. He constituted himself umpire,
and, judging by our air and gesture, he very seriously remarked from
time to time, "You beat," or "He beat."

Leaving a spacious bay on our left, we entered through a short strait
into a small lake a couple of miles over, and thence into Telos Lake.
This curved round toward the northeast, and may have been three or four
miles long as we paddled.

The outlet from the lake into the East Branch of the Penobscot is an
artificial one, and it was not very apparent where it was exactly, but
the lake ran curving far up northeasterly into two narrow valleys or
ravines, as if it had for a long time been groping its way toward the
Penobscot waters. By observing where the horizon was lowest, and
following the longest of these, we at length reached the dam, having
come about a dozen miles from the last camp. Somebody had left a line
set for trout, and the jackknife with which the bait had been cut on the
dam beside it, and, on a log close by, a loaf of bread. These proved the
property of a solitary hunter, whom we soon met, and canoe and gun and
traps were not far off. He told us that it was twenty miles to the foot
of Grand Lake, and that the first house below the foot of the lake, on
the East Branch, was Hunt's, about forty-five miles farther.

This hunter, who was a quite small, sunburnt man, having already carried
his canoe over, had nothing so interesting and pressing to do as to
observe our transit. He had been out a month or more alone. How much
more respectable is the life of the solitary pioneer or settler in
these, or any woods--having real difficulties, not of his own creation,
drawing his subsistence directly from nature--than that of the helpless
multitudes in the towns who depend on gratifying the extremely
artificial wants of society and are thrown out of employment by hard
times!

Telos Lake, the head of the St. John on this side, and Webster Pond, the
head of the East Branch of the Penobscot, are only about a mile apart,
and they are connected by a ravine, in which but little digging was
required to make the water of the former, which is the highest, flow
into the latter. This canal is something less than a mile long and about
four rods wide. The rush of the water has produced such changes in the
canal that it has now the appearance of a very rapid mountain stream
flowing through a ravine, and you would not suspect that any digging had
been required to persuade the waters of the St. John to flow into the
Penobscot here. It was so winding that one could see but a little way
down.

It is wonderful how well watered this country is. As you paddle across a
lake, bays will be pointed out to you, by following up which, and
perhaps the tributary stream which empties in, you may, after a short
portage, or possibly, at some seasons, none at all, get into another
river, which empties far away from the one you are on. Generally, you
may go in any direction in a canoe, by making frequent but not very long
portages. It seems as if the more youthful and impressionable streams
can hardly resist the numerous invitations and temptations to leave
their native beds and run down their neighbors' channels.

Wherever there is a channel for water there is a road for the canoe. It
is said that some Western steamers can run on a heavy dew, whence we can
imagine what a canoe may do.

This canal, so called, was a considerable and extremely rapid and rocky
river. The Indian decided that there was water enough in it without
raising the dam, which would only make it more violent, and that he
would run down it alone, while we carried the greater part of the
baggage. Our provisions being about half consumed, there was the less
left in the canoe. We had thrown away the pork-keg and wrapped its
contents in birch bark.

Following a moist trail through the forest, we reached the head of
Webster Pond about the same time with the Indian, notwithstanding the
velocity with which he moved, our route being the most direct. The pond
was two or three miles long.

At the outlet was another dam, at which we stopped and picked
raspberries, while the Indian went down the stream a half-mile through
the forest, to see what he had got to contend with. There was a deserted
log camp here, apparently used the previous winter, with its "hovel" or
barn for cattle. In the hut was a large fir-twig bed, raised two feet
from the floor, occupying a large part of the single apartment, a long
narrow table against the wall, with a stout log bench before it, and
above the table a small window, the only one there was, which admitted a
feeble light. It was a simple and strong fort erected against the cold.

We got our dinner on the shore, on the upper side of the dam. As we were
sitting by our fire, concealed by the earth bank of the dam, a long
line of sheldrakes, half grown, came waddling over it from the water
below, passing within about a rod of us, so that we could almost have
caught them in our hands. They were very abundant on all the streams and
lakes which we visited, and every two or three hours they would rush
away in a long string over the water before us, twenty to fifty of them
at once, rarely ever flying, but running with great rapidity up or down
the stream, even in the midst of the most violent rapids, and apparently
as fast up as down.

An Indian at Oldtown had told us that we should be obliged to carry ten
miles between Telos Lake on the St. John and Second Lake on the East
Branch of the Penobscot; but the lumberers whom we met assured us that
there would not be more than a mile of carry. It turned out that the
Indian was nearest right, as far as we were concerned. However, if one
of us could have assisted the Indian in managing the canoe in the
rapids, we might have run the greater part of the way; but as he was
alone in the management of the canoe in such places we were obliged to
walk the greater part.

My companion and I carried a good part of the baggage on our shoulders,
while the Indian took that which would be least injured by wet in the
canoe. We did not know when we should see him again, for he had not been
this way since the canal was cut. He agreed to stop when he got to
smooth water, come up and find our path if he could, and halloo for us,
and after waiting a reasonable time go on and try again--and we were to
look out in like manner for him.

He commenced by running through the sluiceway and over the dam, as
usual, standing up in his tossing canoe, and was soon out of sight
behind a point in a wild gorge. This Webster Stream is well known to
lumbermen as a difficult one. It is exceedingly rapid and rocky, and
also shallow, and can hardly be considered navigable, unless that may
mean that what is launched in it is sure to be carried swiftly down it,
though it may be dashed to pieces by the way. It is somewhat like
navigating a thunder-spout. With commonly an irresistible force urging
you on, you have got to choose your own course each moment between the
rocks and shallows, and to get into it, moving forward always with the
utmost possible moderation, and often holding on, if you can, that you
may inspect the rapids before you.

By the Indian's direction we took an old path on the south side, which
appeared to keep down the stream. It was a wild wood-path, with a few
tracks of oxen which had been driven over it, probably to some old camp
clearing for pasturage, mingled with the tracks of moose which had
lately used it. We kept on steadily for about an hour without putting
down our packs, occasionally winding around or climbing over a fallen
tree, for the most part far out of sight and hearing of the river;
till, after walking about three miles, we were glad to find that the
path came to the river again at an old camp-ground, where there was a
small opening in the forest, at which we paused.

Swiftly as the shallow and rocky river ran here, a continuous rapid with
dancing waves, I saw, as I sat on the shore, a long string of
sheldrakes, which something scared, run up the opposite side of the
stream by me, just touching the surface of the waves, and getting an
impulse from them as they flowed from under them; but they soon came
back, driven by the Indian, who had fallen a little behind us on account
of the windings. He shot round a point just above, and came to land by
us with considerable water in his canoe. He had found it, as he said,
"very strong water," and had been obliged to land once before to empty
out what he had taken in.

[Illustration: _Coming Down the Rapids_]

He complained that it strained him to paddle so hard in order to keep
his canoe straight in its course, having no one in the bows to aid
him, and, shallow as it was, said that it would be no joke to upset
there, for the force of the water was such that he had as lief I would
strike him over the head with a paddle as have that water strike him.
Seeing him come out of that gap was as if you should pour water down an
inclined and zigzag trough, then drop a nutshell into it, and, taking a
short cut to the bottom, get there in time to see it come out,
notwithstanding the rush and tumult, right side up, and only partly full
of water.

After a moment's breathing-space, while I held his canoe, he was soon
out of sight again around another bend, and we, shouldering our packs,
resumed our course.

Before going a mile we heard the Indian calling to us. He had come up
through the woods and along the path to find us, having reached
sufficiently smooth water to warrant his taking us in. The shore was
about one fourth of a mile distant through a dense, dark forest, and as
he led us back to it, winding rapidly about to the right and left, I had
the curiosity to look down carefully and found that he was following his
steps backward. I could only occasionally perceive his trail in the
moss, and yet he did not appear to look down nor hesitate an instant,
but led us out exactly to his canoe. This surprised me, for without a
compass, or the sight or noise of the river to guide us, we could not
have kept our course many minutes, and could have retraced our steps but
a short distance, with a great deal of pains and very slowly, using a
laborious circumspection. But it was evident that he could go back
through the forest wherever he had been during the day.

After this rough walking in the dark woods it was an agreeable change to
glide down the rapid river in the canoe once more. This river, though
still very swift, was almost perfectly smooth here, and showed a very
visible declivity, a regularly inclined plane, for several miles, like
a mirror set a little aslant, on which we coasted down. It was very
exhilarating, and the perfection of traveling, the coasting down this
inclined mirror between two evergreen forests edged with lofty dead
white pines, sometimes slanted half-way over the stream. I saw some
monsters there, nearly destitute of branches, and scarcely diminishing
in diameter for eighty or ninety feet.

As we were thus swept along, our Indian repeated in a deliberate and
drawling tone the words, "Daniel Webster, great lawyer," apparently
reminded of him by the name of the stream, and he described his calling
on him once in Boston at what he supposed was his boarding-house. He had
no business with him but merely went to pay his respects, as we should
say. It was on the day after Webster delivered his Bunker Hill oration.
The first time he called he waited till he was tired without seeing him,
and then went away. The next time he saw him go by the door of the room
in which he was waiting several times, in his shirt-sleeves, without
noticing him. He thought that if he had come to see Indians they would
not have treated him so. At length, after very long delay, he came in,
walked toward him, and asked in a loud voice, gruffly, "What do you
want?" and he, thinking at first, by the motion of his hand, that he was
going to strike him, said to himself, "You'd better take care; if you
try that I shall know what to do."

He did not like him, and declared that all he said "was not worth talk
about a musquash."

Coming to falls and rapids, our easy progress was suddenly terminated.
The Indian went alongshore to inspect the water, while we climbed over
the rocks, picking berries. When the Indian came back, he remarked, "You
got to walk; ver' strong water."

So, taking out his canoe, he launched it again below the falls, and was
soon out of sight. At such times he would step into the canoe, take up
his paddle, and start off, looking far down-stream as if absorbing all
the intelligence of forest and stream into himself. We meanwhile
scrambled along the shore with our packs, without any path. This was the
last of _our_ boating for the day.

The Indian now got along much faster than we, and waited for us from
time to time. I found here the only cool spring that I drank at anywhere
on this excursion, a little water filling a hollow in the sandy bank. It
was a quite memorable event, and due to the elevation of the country,
for wherever else we had been the water in the rivers and the streams
emptying in was dead and warm, compared with that of a mountainous
region. It was very bad walking along the shore over fallen and drifted
trees and bushes, and rocks, from time to time swinging ourselves round
over the water, or else taking to a gravel bar or going inland. At one
place, the Indian being ahead, I was obliged to take off all my clothes
in order to ford a small but deep stream emptying in, while my
companion, who was inland, found a rude bridge, high up in the woods,
and I saw no more of him for some time. I saw there very fresh moose
tracks, and I passed one white pine log, lodged in the forest near the
edge of the stream, which was quite five feet in diameter at the butt.

Shortly after this I overtook the Indian at the edge of some burnt land,
which extended three or four miles at least, beginning about three miles
above Second Lake, which we were expecting to reach that night. This
burnt region was still more rocky than before, but, though comparatively
open, we could not yet see the lake. Not having seen my companion for
some time, I climbed with the Indian a high rock on the edge of the
river forming a narrow ridge only a foot or two wide at top, in order to
look for him. After calling many times I at length heard him answer
from a considerable distance inland, he having taken a trail which led
off from the river, and being now in search of the river again. Seeing a
much higher rock of the same character about one third of a mile farther
down-stream, I proceeded toward it through the burnt land, in order to
look for the lake from its summit, and hallooing all the while that my
companion might join me on the way.

Before we came together I noticed where a moose, which possibly I had
scared by my shouting, had apparently just run along a large rotten
trunk of a pine, which made a bridge thirty or forty feet long over a
hollow, as convenient for him as for me. The tracks were as large as
those of an ox, but an ox could not have crossed there. This burnt land
was an exceedingly wild and desolate region. Judging by the weeds and
sprouts, it appeared to have been burnt about two years before. It was
covered with charred trunks, either prostrate or standing, which
crocked our clothes and hands. Great shells of trees, sometimes unburnt
without, or burnt on one side only, but black within, stood twenty or
forty feet high. The fire had run up inside, as in a chimney, leaving
the sapwood. There were great fields of fireweed, which presented masses
of pink. Intermixed with these were blueberry and raspberry bushes.

Having crossed a second rocky ridge, when I was beginning to ascend the
third, the Indian, whom I had left on the shore, beckoned to me to come
to him, but I made sign that I would first ascend the rock before me. My
companion accompanied me to the top.

There was a remarkable series of these great rock-waves revealed by the
burning; breakers, as it were. No wonder that the river that found its
way through them was rapid and obstructed by falls. We could see the
lake over the woods, and that the river made an abrupt turn southward
around the end of the cliff on which we stood, and that there was an
important fall in it a short distance below us. I could see the canoe a
hundred rods behind, but now on the opposite shore, and supposed that
the Indian had concluded to take out and carry round some bad rapids on
that side, but after waiting a while I could still see nothing of him,
and I began to suspect that he had gone inland to look for the lake from
some hilltop on that side. This proved to be the case, for after I had
started to return to the canoe I heard a faint halloo, and descried him
on the top of a distant rocky hill. I began to return along the ridge
toward the angle in the river. My companion inquired where I was going;
to which I answered that I was going far enough back to communicate with
the Indian.

When we reached the shore the Indian appeared from out the woods on the
opposite side, but on account of the roar of the water it was difficult
to communicate with him. He kept along the shore westward to his canoe,
while we stopped at the angle where the stream turned southward around
the precipice. I said to my companion that we would keep along the shore
and keep the Indian in sight. We started to do so, being close together,
the Indian behind us having launched his canoe again, but I saw the
latter beckoning to me, and I called to my companion, who had just
disappeared behind large rocks at the point of the precipice on his way
down the stream, that I was going to help the Indian.

I did so--helped get the canoe over a fall, lying with my breast over a
rock, and holding one end while he received it below--and within ten or
fifteen minutes I was back at the point where the river turned
southward, while Polis glided down the river alone, parallel with me.
But to my surprise, when I rounded the precipice, though the shore was
bare of trees, without rocks, for a quarter of a mile at least, my
companion was not to be seen. It was as if he had sunk into the earth.
This was the more unaccountable to me, because I knew that his feet were
very sore, and that he wished to keep with the party.

I hastened along, hallooing and searching for him, thinking he might be
concealed behind a rock, but the Indian had got along faster in his
canoe, till he was arrested by the falls, about a quarter of a mile
below. He then landed, and said that we could go no farther that night.
The sun was setting, and on account of falls and rapids we should be
obliged to leave this river and carry a good way into another farther
east. The first thing then was to find my companion, for I was now very
much alarmed about him, and I sent the Indian along the shore
down-stream, which began to be covered with unburnt wood again just
below the falls, while I searched backward about the precipice which we
had passed.

The Indian showed some unwillingness to exert himself, complaining that
he was very tired in consequence of his day's work, that it had strained
him getting down so many rapids alone; but he went off calling somewhat
like an owl. I remembered that my companion was nearsighted, and I
feared that he had either fallen from the precipice, or fainted and sunk
down amid the rocks beneath it. I shouted and searched above and below
this precipice in the twilight till I could not see, expecting nothing
less than to find his body beneath it. For half an hour I anticipated
and believed only the worst. I thought what I should do the next day if
I did not find him, and how his relatives would feel if I should return
without him. I felt that if he were really lost away from the river
there, it would be a desperate undertaking to find him; and where were
they who could help you? What would it be to raise the country, where
there were only two or three camps, twenty or thirty miles apart, and
no road, and perhaps nobody at home?

I rushed down from this precipice to the canoe in order to fire the
Indian's gun, but found that my companion had the caps. When the Indian
returned he said that he had seen his tracks once or twice along the
shore. This encouraged me very much. He objected to firing the gun,
saying that if my companion heard it, which was not likely, on account
of the roar of the stream, it would tempt him to come toward us, and he
might break his neck in the dark. For the same reason we refrained from
lighting a fire on the highest rock. I proposed that we should both keep
down the stream to the lake, or that I should go at any rate, but the
Indian said: "No use, can't do anything in the dark. Come morning, then
we find 'em. No harm--he make 'em camp. No bad animals here--warm
night--he well off as you and I."

The darkness in the woods was by this so thick that it decided the
question. We must camp where we were. I knew that he had his knapsack,
with blankets and matches, and, if well, would fare no worse than we,
except that he would have no supper nor society.

This side of the river being so encumbered with rocks, we crossed to the
eastern or smoother shore, and proceeded to camp there, within two or
three rods of the falls. We pitched no tent, but lay on the sand,
putting a few handfuls of grass and twigs under us, there being no
evergreen at hand. For fuel we had some of the charred stumps. Our
various bags of provisions had got quite wet in the rapids, and I
arranged them about the fire to dry. The fall close by was the principal
one on this stream, and it shook the earth under us. It was a cool, dewy
night. I lay awake a good deal from anxiety. From time to time I fancied
that I heard his voice calling through the roar of the falls from the
opposite side of the river; but it is doubtful if we could have heard
him across the stream there. Sometimes I doubted whether the Indian had
really seen his tracks, since he manifested an unwillingness to make
much of a search.

It was the most wild and desolate region we had camped in, where, if
anywhere, one might expect to meet with befitting inhabitants, but I
heard only the squeak of a nighthawk flitting over. The moon in her
first quarter, in the fore part of the night, setting over the bare
rocky hills garnished with tall, charred, and hollow stumps or shells of
trees, served to reveal the desolation.




VIII

THURSDAY, JULY 30


I aroused the Indian early to go in search of our companion, expecting
to find him within a mile or two, farther down the stream. The Indian
wanted his breakfast first, but I reminded him that my companion had had
neither breakfast nor supper. We were obliged first to carry our canoe
and baggage over into another stream, the main East Branch, about three
fourths of a mile distant, for Webster Stream was no farther navigable.
We went twice over this carry, and the dewy bushes wet us through like
water up to the middle. I hallooed from time to time, though I had
little expectation that I could be heard over the roar of the rapids.

In going over this portage the last time, the Indian, who was before me
with the canoe on his head, stumbled and fell heavily once, and lay for
a moment silent as if in pain. I hastily stepped forward to help him,
asking if he was much hurt, but after a moment's pause, without
replying, he sprang up and went forward.

We had launched our canoe and gone but little way down the East Branch,
when I heard an answering shout from my companion, and soon after saw
him standing on a point where there was a clearing a quarter of a mile
below, and the smoke of his fire was rising near by. Before I saw him I
naturally shouted again and again, but the Indian curtly remarked, "He
hears you," as if once was enough.

It was just below the mouth of Webster Stream. When we arrived he was
smoking his pipe, and said that he had passed a pretty comfortable
night, though it was rather cold, on account of the dew. It appeared
that when we stood together the previous evening, and I was shouting to
the Indian across the river, he, being nearsighted, had not seen the
Indian nor his canoe, and when I went back to the Indian's assistance,
did not see which way I went, and supposed that we were below and not
above him, and so, making haste to catch up, he ran away from us. Having
reached this clearing, a mile or more below our camp, the night overtook
him, and he made a fire in a little hollow, and lay down by it in his
blanket, still thinking that we were ahead of him.

He had stuck up the remnant of a lumberer's shirt, found on the point,
on a pole by the waterside for a signal, and attached a note to it to
inform us that he had gone on to the lake, and that if he did not find
us there he would be back in a couple of hours. If he had not found us
soon he had some thoughts of going back in search of the solitary hunter
whom we had met at Telos Lake, ten miles behind, and, if successful,
hire him to take him to Bangor. But if this hunter had moved as fast as
we, he would have been twenty miles off by this time, and who could
guess in what direction? It would have been like looking for a needle in
a haymow to search for him in these woods. He had been considering how
long he could live on berries alone.

We all had good appetites for the breakfast which we made haste to cook
here, and then, having partially dried our clothes, we glided swiftly
down the winding stream toward Second Lake.

As the shores became flatter with frequent sandbars, and the stream more
winding in the lower land near the lake, elms and ash trees made their
appearance; also the wild yellow lily, some of whose bulbs I collected
for a soup. On some ridges the burnt land extended as far as the lake.
This was a very beautiful lake, two or three miles long, with high
mountains on the southwest side. The morning was a bright one, and
perfectly still, the lake as smooth as glass, we making the only ripple
as we paddled into it. The dark mountains about it were seen through a
glaucous mist, and the white stems of canoe birches mingled with the
other woods around it. The thrush sang on the distant shore, and the
laugh of some loons, sporting in a concealed western bay, as if inspired
by the morning, came distinct over the lake to us. The beauty of the
scene may have been enhanced to our eyes by the fact that we had just
come together after a night of some anxiety.

Having paddled down three quarters of the lake, we came to a standstill
while my companion let down for fish. In the midst of our dreams of
giant lake trout, even then supposed to be nibbling, our fisherman drew
up a diminutive red perch, and we took up our paddles.

It was not apparent where the outlet of the lake was, and while the
Indian thought it was in one direction, I thought it was in another. He
said, "I bet you fourpence it is there," but he still held on in my
direction, which proved to be the right one.

As we were approaching the outlet he suddenly exclaimed, "Moose! moose!"
and told us to be still. He put a cap on his gun, and, standing up in
the stern, rapidly pushed the canoe straight toward the shore and the
moose. It was a cow moose, about thirty rods off, standing in the water
by the side of the outlet, partly behind some fallen timber and bushes,
and at that distance she did not look very large. She was flapping her
large ears, and from time to time poking off the flies with her nose
from some part of her body. She did not appear much alarmed by our
neighborhood, only occasionally turned her head and looked straight at
us, and then gave her attention to the flies again. As we approached
nearer she got out of the water, stood higher, and regarded us more
suspiciously.

Polis pushed the canoe steadily forward in the shallow water, but the
canoe soon grounded in the mud eight or ten rods distant from the
moose, and the Indian seized his gun. After standing still a moment she
turned so as to expose her side, and he improved this moment to fire,
over our heads. She thereupon moved off eight or ten rods at a moderate
pace across a shallow bay to the opposite shore, and she stood still
again while the Indian hastily loaded and fired twice at her, without
her moving. My companion, who passed him his caps and bullets, said that
Polis was as excited as a boy of fifteen, that his hand trembled, and he
once put his ramrod back upside down.

The Indian now pushed quickly and quietly back, and a long distance
round, in order to get into the outlet,--for he had fired over the neck
of a peninsula between it and the lake,--till we approached the place
where the moose had stood, when he exclaimed, "She is a goner!"

[Illustration: _Shooting the Moose_]

There, to be sure, she lay perfectly dead, just where she had stood
to receive the last shots. Using a tape, I found that the moose measured
six feet from the shoulder to the tip of the hoof, and was eight feet
long.

Polis, preparing to skin the moose, asked me to help him find a stone on
which to sharpen his large knife. It being flat alluvial ground, covered
with red maples, etc., this was no easy matter. We searched far and wide
a long time till at length I found a flat kind of slate stone, on which
he soon made his knife very sharp.

While he was skinning the moose I proceeded to ascertain what kind of
fishes were to be found in the sluggish and muddy outlet. The greatest
difficulty was to find a pole. It was almost impossible to find a
slender, straight pole ten or twelve feet long in those woods. You might
search half an hour in vain. They are commonly spruce, arbor-vitæ, fir,
etc., short, stout, and branchy, and do not make good fishpoles, even
after you have patiently cut off all their tough and scraggy branches.
The fishes were red perch and chivin.

The Indian, having cut off a large piece of sirloin, the upper lip, and
the tongue, wrapped them in the hide, and placed them in the bottom of
the canoe, observing that there was "one man," meaning the weight of
one. Our load had previously been reduced some thirty pounds, but a
hundred pounds were now added, which made our quarters still more
narrow, and considerably increased the danger on the lakes and rapids as
well as the labor of the carries. The skin was ours according to custom,
since the Indian was in our employ, but we did not think of claiming it.
He being a skillful dresser of moose-hides would make it worth seven or
eight dollars to him, as I was told. He said that he sometimes earned
fifty or sixty dollars in a day at them; he had killed ten moose in one
day, though the skinning and all took two days. This was the way he had
got his property.

We continued along the outlet through a swampy region, by a long,
winding deadwater, very much choked up by wood, where we were obliged to
land sometimes in order to get the canoe over a log. It was hard to find
any channel, and we did not know but we should be lost in the swamp. It
abounded in ducks, as usual. At length we reached Grand Lake.

We stopped to dine on an interesting rocky island, securing our canoe to
the cliffy shore. Here was a good opportunity to dry our dewy blankets
on the open sunny rock. Indians had recently camped here, and
accidentally burned over the western end of the island. Polis picked up
a gun-case of blue broadcloth, and said that he knew the Indian it
belonged to and would carry it to him. His tribe is not so large but he
may know all its effects. We proceeded to make a fire and cook our
dinner amid some pines.

I saw where the Indians had made canoes in a little secluded hollow in
the woods, on the top of the rock, where they were out of the wind, and
large piles of whittlings remained. This must have been a favorite
resort of their ancestors, and, indeed, we found here the point of an
arrow-head, such as they have not used for two centuries and now know
not how to make. The Indian picked up a yellowish curved bone by the
side of our fireplace and asked me to guess what it was. It was one of
the upper incisors of a beaver, on which some party had feasted within a
year or two. I found also most of the teeth and the skull. We here dined
on fried moose meat.

Our blankets being dry, we set out again, the Indian, as usual, having
left his gazette on a tree. We paddled southward, keeping near the
western shore. The Indian did not know exactly where the outlet was, and
he went feeling his way by a middle course between two probable points,
from which he could diverge either way at last without losing much
distance. In approaching the south shore, as the clouds looked gusty and
the waves ran pretty high, we so steered as to get partly under the lee
of an island, though at a great distance from it.

I could not distinguish the outlet till we were almost in it, and heard
the water falling over the dam there. Here was a considerable fall, and
a very substantial dam, but no sign of a cabin or camp.

While we loitered here Polis took occasion to cut with his big knife
some of the hair from his moose-hide, and so lightened and prepared it
for drying. I noticed at several old Indian camps in the woods the pile
of hair which they had cut from their hides.

Having carried over the dam, he darted down the rapids, leaving us to
walk for a mile or more, where for the most part there was no path, but
very thick and difficult traveling near the stream. He would call to
let us know where he was waiting for us with his canoe, when, on account
of the windings of the stream, we did not know where the shore was, but
he did not call often enough, forgetting that we were not Indians. He
seemed to be very saving of his breath--yet he would be surprised if we
went by, or did not strike the right spot. This was not because he was
unaccommodating, but a proof of superior manners. Indians like to get
along with the least possible communication and ado. He was really
paying us a great compliment all the while, thinking that we preferred a
hint to a kick.

At length, climbing over the willows and fallen trees, when this was
easier than to go round or under them, we overtook the canoe, and glided
down the stream in smooth but swift water for several miles. I here
observed, as at Webster Stream, that the river was a smooth and
regularly inclined plane down which we coasted.

We decided to camp early that we might have ample time before dark. So
we stopped at the first favorable shore, where there was a narrow
gravelly beach, some five miles below the outlet of the lake. Two steps
from the water on either side, and you come to the abrupt, bushy, and
rooty, if not turfy, edge of the bank, four or five feet high, where the
interminable forest begins, as if the stream had but just cut its way
through it.

It is surprising on stepping ashore anywhere into this unbroken
wilderness to see so often, at least within a few rods of the river, the
marks of the axe, made by lumberers who have either camped here or
driven logs past in previous springs. You will see perchance where they
have cut large chips from a tall white pine stump for their fire.

While we were pitching the camp and getting supper, the Indian cut the
rest of the hair from his moose-hide, and proceeded to extend it
vertically on a temporary frame between two small trees, half a dozen
feet from the opposite side of the fire, lashing and stretching it with
arbor-vitæ bark. Asking for a new kind of tea, he made us some pretty
good of the checkerberry, which covered the ground, dropping a little
bunch of it tied up with cedar bark into the kettle.

After supper he put on the moose tongue and lips to boil. He showed me
how to write on the under side of birch bark with a black spruce twig,
which is hard and tough and can be brought to a point.

The Indian wandered off into the woods a short distance just before
night, and, coming back, said, "Me found great treasure."

"What's that?" we asked.

"Steel traps, under a log, thirty or forty, I didn't count 'em. I guess
Indian work--worth three dollars apiece."

It was a singular coincidence that he should have chanced to walk to and
look under that particular log in that trackless forest.

I saw chivin and chub in the stream when washing my hands, but my
companion tried in vain to catch them. I heard the sound of bullfrogs
from a swamp on the opposite side.

You commonly make your camp just at sundown, and are collecting wood,
getting your supper, or pitching your tent while the shades of night are
gathering around and adding to the already dense gloom of the forest.
You have no time to explore or look around you before it is dark. You
may penetrate half a dozen rods farther into that twilight wilderness
after some dry bark to kindle your fire with, and wonder what mysteries
lie hidden still deeper in it, or you may run down to the shore for a
dipper of water, and get a clearer view for a short distance up or down
the stream, and while you stand there, see a fish leap, or duck alight
in the river, or hear a thrush or robin sing in the woods.

But there is no sauntering off to see the country. Ten or fifteen rods
seems a great way from your companions, and you come back with the air
of a much traveled man, as from a long journey, with adventures to
relate, though you may have heard the crackling of the fire all the
while--and at a hundred rods you might be lost past recovery and have to
camp out. It is all mossy and _moosey_. In some of those dense fir and
spruce woods there is hardly room for the smoke to go up. The trees are
a _standing_ night, and every fir and spruce which you fell is a plume
plucked from night's raven wing. Then at night the general stillness is
more impressive than any sound, but occasionally you hear the note of an
owl farther or nearer in the woods, and if near a lake, the semihuman
cry of the loons at their unearthly revels.

To-night the Indian lay between the fire and his stretched moose-hide,
to avoid mosquitoes. Indeed, he also made a small smoky fire of damp
leaves at his head and feet, and then as usual rolled up his head in
his blanket. We with our veils and our wash were tolerably comfortable,
but it would be difficult to pursue any sedentary occupation in the
woods at this season; you cannot see to read much by the light of a fire
through a veil in the evening, nor handle pencil and paper well with
gloves or anointed fingers.




IX

FRIDAY, JULY 31


We had smooth but swift water for a considerable distance, where we
glided rapidly along, scaring up ducks and kingfishers. But, as usual,
our smooth progress ere long come to an end, and we were obliged to
carry canoe and all about half a mile down the right bank around some
rapids or falls. It required sharp eyes sometimes to tell which side was
the carry, before you went over the falls, but Polis never failed to
land us rightly. The raspberries were particularly abundant and large
here, and all hands went to eating them, the Indian remarking on their
size.

Often on bare rocky carries the trail was so indistinct that I
repeatedly lost it, but when I walked behind him I observed that he
could keep it almost like a hound, and rarely hesitated, or, if he
paused a moment on a bare rock, his eye immediately detected some sign
which would have escaped me. Frequently _we_ found no path at all at
these places, and were to him unaccountably delayed. He would only say
it was "ver' strange."

We had heard of a Grand Fall on this stream, and thought that each fall
we came to must be it, but after christening several in succession with
this name we gave up the search. There were more Grand or Petty Falls
than I can remember.

I cannot tell how many times we had to walk on account of falls or
rapids. We were expecting all the while that the river would take a
final leap and get to smooth water, but there was no improvement this
forenoon. However, the carries were an agreeable variety. So surely as
we stepped out of the canoe and stretched our legs we found ourselves in
a blueberry and raspberry garden, each side of our rocky trail being
lined with one or both. There was not a carry on the main East Branch
where we did not find an abundance of both these berries, for these
were the rockiest places and partially cleared, such as these plants
prefer, and there had been none to gather the finest before us.

We bathed and dined at the foot of one of these carries. It was the
Indian who commonly reminded us that it was dinner-time, sometimes even
by turning the prow to the shore. He once made an indirect, but lengthy
apology, by saying that we might think it strange, but that one who
worked hard all day was very particular to have his dinner in good
season. At the most considerable fall on this stream, when I was walking
over the carry close behind the Indian, he observed a track on the rock,
which was but slightly covered with soil, and, stooping, muttered,
"Caribou."

When we returned, he observed a much larger track near the same place,
where some animal's foot had sunk into a small hollow in the rock,
partly filled with grass and earth, and he exclaimed with surprise,
"What that?"

"Well, what is it?" I asked.

Stooping and laying his hand in it, he answered with a mysterious air,
and in a half-whisper, "Devil [that is, Indian devil, or cougar]--ledges
about here--very bad animal--pull 'em rocks all to pieces."

"How long since it was made?" I asked.

"To-day or yesterday," said he.

We spent at least half the time in walking to-day. The Indian, being
alone, commonly ran down far below the foot of the carries before he
waited for us. The carry-paths themselves were more than usually
indistinct, often the route being revealed only by the countless small
holes in the fallen timber made by the tacks in the drivers' boots. It
was a tangled and perplexing thicket, through which we stumbled and
threaded our way, and when we had finished a mile of it, our
starting-point seemed far away. We were glad that we had not got to
walk to Bangor along the banks of this river, which would be a journey
of more than a hundred miles. Think of the denseness of the forest, the
fallen trees and rocks, the windings of the river, the streams emptying
in, and the frequent swamps to be crossed. It made you shudder. Yet the
Indian from time to time pointed out to us where he had thus crept along
day after day when he was a boy of ten, and in a starving condition.

He had been hunting far north of this with two grown Indians. The winter
came on unexpectedly early, and the ice compelled them to leave their
canoe at Grand Lake, and walk down the bank. They shouldered their furs
and started for Oldtown. The snow was not deep enough for snowshoes, or
to cover the inequalities of the ground. Polis was soon too weak to
carry any burden, but he managed to catch one otter. This was the most
they all had to eat on this journey, and he remembered how good the
yellow lily roots were, made into a soup with the otter oil. He shared
this food equally with the other two, but being so small he suffered
much more than they. He waded through the Mattawamkeag at its mouth,
when it was freezing cold and came up to his chin, and he, being very
weak and emaciated, expected to be swept away. The first house which
they reached was at Lincoln, and thereabouts they met a white teamster
with supplies, who, seeing their condition, gave them as much as they
could eat. For six months after getting home he was very low and did not
expect to live, and was perhaps always the worse for it.

For seven or eight miles below that succession of "Grand" falls the
aspect of the banks as well as the character of the stream was changed.
After passing a tributary from the northeast we had swift smooth water.
Low grassy banks and muddy shores began. Many elms as well as maples and
more ash trees overhung the stream and supplanted the spruce.

Mosquitoes, black flies, etc., pursued us in mid-channel, and we were
glad sometimes to get into violent rapids, for then we escaped them. As
we glided swiftly down the inclined plane of the river, a great cat owl
launched itself away from a stump on the bank, and flew heavily across
the stream, and the Indian, as usual, imitated its note. Soon afterward
a white-headed eagle sailed down the stream before us. We drove him
several miles, while we were looking for a good place to camp,--for we
expected to be overtaken by a shower,--and still we could distinguish
him by his white tail, sailing away from time to time from some tree by
the shore still farther down the stream. Some _she-corways_ being
surprised by us, a part of them dived, and we passed directly over them,
and could trace their course here and there by a bubble on the surface,
but we did not see them come up.

It was some time before we found a camping-place, for the shore was
either too grassy and muddy, where mosquitoes abounded, or too steep a
hillside. We at length found a place to our minds, where, in a very
dense spruce wood above a gravelly shore, there seemed to be but few
insects. The trees were so thick that we were obliged to clear a space
to build our fire and lie down in, and the young spruce trees that were
left were like the wall of an apartment rising around us. We were
obliged to pull ourselves up a steep bank to get there. But the place
which you have selected for your camp, though never so rough and grim,
begins at once to have its attractions, and becomes a very center of
civilization to you: "Home is home, be it never so homely."

The mosquitoes were numerous, and the Indian complained a good deal,
though he lay, as the night before, between three fires and his
stretched hide. As I sat on a stump by the fire with a veil and gloves
on, trying to read, he observed, "I make you candle," and in a minute he
took a piece of birch bark about two inches wide and rolled it hard,
like an allumette[4] fifteen inches long, lit it, fixed it by the other
end horizontally in a split stick three feet high, and stuck it in the
ground, turning the blazing end to the wind, and telling me to snuff it
from time to time. It answered the purpose of a candle pretty well.

I noticed, as I had before, that there was a lull among the mosquitoes
about midnight, and that they began again in the morning. Apparently
they need rest as well as we. Few, if any, creatures are equally active
all night. As soon as it was light I saw, through my veil, that the
inside of the tent about our heads was quite blackened with myriads, and
their combined hum was almost as bad to endure as their stings. I had an
uncomfortable night on this account, though I am not sure that one
succeeded in his attempt to sting me.

FOOTNOTES:

[4] A match. In this case an old-fashioned "spill," or lamplighter, made
by twisting a piece of paper, into a long, tight spiral roll.




X

SATURDAY, SUNDAY, MONDAY AUGUST 1-3


I caught two or three large red chivin within twenty feet of the camp,
which, added to the moose tongue that had been left in the kettle
boiling over night, and to our other stores, made a sumptuous breakfast.
The Indian made us some hemlock tea instead of coffee. This was
tolerable, though he said it was not strong enough. It was interesting
to see so simple a dish as a kettle of water with a handful of green
hemlock sprigs in it boiling over the huge fire in the open air, the
leaves fast losing their lively green color, and know that it was for
our breakfast.

We were glad to embark once more and leave some of the mosquitoes
behind. We found that we had camped about a mile above Hunt's, which is
the last house for those who ascend Katahdin on this side. We had
expected to ascend it from this point, but my companion was obliged to
give up this on account of sore feet. The Indian, however, suggested
that perhaps he might get a pair of moccasins at this place, and that he
could walk very easily in them without hurting his feet, wearing several
pairs of stockings, and he said beside that they were so porous that
when you had taken in water it all drained out in a little while. We
stopped to get some sugar, but found that the family had moved away, and
the house was unoccupied, except temporarily by some men who were
getting the hay. I noticed a seine here stretched on the bank, which
probably had been used to catch salmon.

Just below this, on the west bank, we saw a moose-hide stretched, and
with it a bearskin. The Indian said they belonged to Joe Aitteon,[5] but
how he told I do not know. He was probably hunting near and had left
them for the day. Finding that we were going directly to Oldtown, he
regretted that he had not taken more of the moose meat to his family,
saying that in a short time, by drying it, he could have made it so
light as to have brought away the greater part, leaving the bones. We
once or twice inquired after the lip, which is a famous tidbit, but he
said, "That go Oldtown for my old woman; don't get it every day."

Maples grew more and more numerous. It rained a little during the
forenoon, and, as we expected a wetting, we stopped early and dined just
above Whetstone Falls, about a dozen miles below Hunt's. My companion,
having lost his pipe, asked the Indian if he could make him one.

"Oh, yer," said he, and in a minute rolled up one of birch bark, telling
him to wet the bowl from time to time.

We carried round the falls. The distance was about three fourths of a
mile. When we had carried over one load, the Indian returned by the
shore, and I by the path; and though I made no particular haste I was
nevertheless surprised to find him at the other end as soon as I. It was
remarkable how easily he got over the worst ground. He said to me, "I
take canoe and you take the rest, suppose you can keep along with me?"

I thought he meant that while he ran down the rapids I should keep along
the shore, and be ready to assist him from time to time, as I had done
before; but as the walking would be very bad, I answered, "I suppose you
will go too fast for me, but I will try."

But I was to go by the path, he said. This I thought would not help the
matter, I should have so far to go to get to the riverside when he
wanted me. But neither was this what he meant. He was proposing a race
over the carry, and asked me if I thought I could keep along with him by
the same path, adding that I must be pretty smart to do it. As his
load, the canoe, would be much the heaviest and bulkiest, I thought that
I ought to be able to do it, and said that I would try. So I proceeded
to gather up the gun, axe, paddle, kettle, frying-pan, plates, dippers,
carpets, etc., and while I was thus engaged he threw me his cowhide
boots. "What, are these in the bargain?" I asked.

"Oh, yer," said he; but before I could make a bundle of my load I saw
him disappearing over a hill with the canoe on his head.

Hastily scraping the various articles together, I started on the run,
and immediately went by him in the bushes, but I had no sooner left him
out of sight in a rocky hollow than the greasy plates, dippers, etc.,
took to themselves wings, and while I was employed in gathering them up,
he went by me; but, hastily pressing the sooty kettle to my side, I
started once more, and, soon passing him again, I saw him no more on the
carry. I do not mention this as anything of a feat, for it was but poor
running on my part, and he was obliged to move with great caution for
fear of breaking his canoe as well as his neck. When he made his
appearance, puffing and panting like myself, in answer to my inquiries
where he had been, he said, "Locks cut 'em feet," and, laughing, added,
"Oh, me love to play sometimes."

He said that he and his companions when they came to carries several
miles long used to try who would get over first; each perhaps with a
canoe on his head. I bore the sign of the kettle on my brown linen sack
for the rest of the voyage.

[Illustration: _Carrying round the Falls_]

As we approached the mouth of the East Branch we passed two or three
huts, the first sign of civilization after Hunt's, though we saw no road
as yet. We heard a cowbell, and even saw an infant held up to a small
square window to see us pass. On entering the West Branch at Nicketow,
Polis remarked that it was all smooth water hence to Oldtown, and he
threw away his pole which was cut on the Umbazookskus.

We camped about two miles below Nicketow, covering with fresh twigs the
withered bed of a former traveler, and feeling that we were now in a
settled country, especially when in the evening we heard an ox sneeze in
its wild pasture across the river. Wherever you land along the
frequented part of the river you have not far to go to find these sites
of temporary inns, the withered bed of flattened twigs, the charred
sticks, and perhaps the tent-poles. Not long since, similar beds were
spread along the Connecticut, the Hudson, and the Delaware, and longer
still ago, by the Thames and Seine, and they now help to make the soil
where private and public gardens, mansions, and palaces are. We could
not get fir twigs for our bed here, and the spruce was harsh in
comparison, having more twig in proportion to its leaf, but we improved
it somewhat with hemlock.

After the regular supper we attempted to make a lily soup of the bulbs
which I had brought along, for I wished to learn all I could before I
got out of the woods. Following the Indian's directions, I washed the
bulbs carefully, minced some moose meat and some pork, salted and boiled
all together, but we had not the patience to try the experiment fairly,
for he said it must be boiled till the roots were completely softened so
as to thicken the soup like flour; but though we left it on all night,
we found it dried to the kettle in the morning and not yet boiled to a
flour. Perhaps the roots were not ripe enough, for they commonly gather
them in the fall. The Indian's name for these bulbs was _sheepnoc_.

He prepared to camp as usual between his moose-hide and the fire, but it
beginning to rain suddenly he took refuge under the tent with us, and
gave us a song before falling asleep. It rained hard in the night and
spoiled another box of matches for us, which the Indian had left out,
for he was very careless; but we had so much the better night for the
rain, since it kept the mosquitoes down.

Sunday, a cloudy and unpromising morning. One of us observed to the
Indian, "You did not stretch your moose-hide last night, did you, Mr.
Polis?"

Whereat he replied in a tone of surprise, though perhaps not of ill
humor: "What you ask me that question for? Suppose I stretch 'em, you
see 'em. May be your way talking, may be all right, no Indian way."

I had observed that he did not wish to answer the same question more
than once, and was often silent when it was put again, as if he were
moody. Not that he was incommunicative, for he frequently commenced a
longwinded narrative of his own accord--repeated at length the tradition
of some old battle, or some passage in the recent history of his tribe
in which he had acted a prominent part, from time to time drawing a
long breath, and resuming the thread of his tale, with the true
story-teller's leisureliness. Especially after the day's work was over,
and he had put himself in posture for the night, he would be
unexpectedly sociable, and we would fall asleep before he got through.

The Indian was quite sick this morning with the colic. I thought that he
was the worse for the moose meat he had eaten.

We reached the Mattawamkeag at half past eight in the morning, in the
midst of a drizzling rain, and, after buying some sugar, set out again.

The Indian growing much worse, we stopped in the north part of Lincoln
to get some brandy for him, but, failing in this, an apothecary
recommended Brandreth's pills, which he refused to take because he was
not acquainted with them. He said, "Me doctor--first study my case, find
out what ail 'em--then I know what to take."

We stopped at mid-forenoon on an island and made him a dipper of tea.
Here, too, we dined and did some washing and botanizing, while he lay on
the bank. In the afternoon we went on a little farther. As a
thunder-shower appeared to be coming up we stopped opposite a barn on
the west bank. Here we were obliged to spend the rest of the day and
night, on account of our patient, whose sickness did not abate. He lay
groaning under his canoe on the bank, looking very woebegone. You would
not have thought, if you had seen him lying about thus, that he was
worth six thousand dollars and had been to Washington. It seemed to me
that he made a greater ado about his sickness than a Yankee does, and
was more alarmed about himself. We talked somewhat of leaving him with
his people in Lincoln,--for that is one of their homes,--but he objected
on account of the expense, saying, "Suppose me well in morning, you and
I go Oldtown by noon."

As we were taking our tea at twilight, while he lay groaning under his
canoe, he asked me to get him a dipper of water. Taking the dipper in
one hand, he seized his powderhorn with the other, and, pouring into it
a charge or two of powder, stirred it up with his finger, and drank it
off. This was all he took to-day after breakfast beside his tea.

To save the trouble of pitching our tent, when we had secured our stores
from wandering dogs, we camped in the solitary half-open barn near the
bank, with the permission of the owner, lying on new-mown hay four feet
deep. The fragrance of the hay, in which many ferns, etc., were mingled,
was agreeable, though it was quite alive with grasshoppers which you
could hear crawling through it. This served to graduate our approach to
houses and feather beds. In the night some large bird, probably an owl,
flitted through over our heads, and very early in the morning we were
awakened by the twittering of swallows which had their nests there.

We started early before breakfast, the Indian being considerably better,
and soon glided by Lincoln, and stopped to breakfast two or three miles
below this town.

We frequently passed Indian islands with their small houses on them. The
Penobscot Indians seem to be more social even than the whites. Ever and
anon in the deepest wilderness of Maine you come to the log hut of a
Yankee or Canada settler, but a Penobscot never takes up his residence
in such a solitude. They are not even scattered about on their islands
in the Penobscot, but gathered together on two or three, evidently for
the sake of society. I saw one or two houses not now used by them,
because, as our Indian said, they were too solitary.

From time to time we met Indians in their canoes going up river. Our man
did not commonly approach them, but only exchanged a few words with them
at a distance. We took less notice of the scenery to-day, because we
were in quite a settled country. The river became broad and sluggish,
and we saw a blue heron winging its way slowly down the stream before
us.

The Sunkhaze, a short dead stream, comes in from the east two miles
above Oldtown. Asking the meaning of this name, the Indian said,
"Suppose you are going down Penobscot, just like we, and you see a canoe
come out of bank and go along before you, but you no see 'em stream.
That is _Sunkhaze_."

He had previously complimented me on my paddling, saying that I paddled
"just like anybody," giving me an Indian name which meant "great
paddler." When off this stream he said to me, who sat in the bows, "Me
teach you paddle."

So, turning toward the shore, he got out, came forward, and placed my
hands as he wished. He placed one of them quite outside the boat, and
the other parallel with the first, grasping the paddle near the end,
not over the flat extremity, and told me to slide it back and forth on
the side of the canoe. This, I found, was a great improvement which I
had not thought of, saving me the labor of lifting the paddle each time,
and I wondered that he had not suggested it before. It is true, before
our baggage was reduced we had been obliged to sit with our legs drawn
up, and our knees above the side of the canoe, which would have
prevented our paddling thus, or perhaps he was afraid of wearing out his
canoe by constant friction on the side.

I told him that I had been accustomed to sit in the stern, and lift my
paddle at each stroke, getting a pry on the side each time, and I still
paddled partly as if in the stern. He then wanted to see me paddle in
the stern. So, changing paddles, for he had the longer and better one,
and turning end for end, he sitting flat on the bottom and I on the
crossbar, he began to paddle very hard, trying to turn the canoe,
looking over his shoulder and laughing, but, finding it in vain, he
relaxed his efforts, though we still sped along a mile or two very
swiftly. He said that he had no fault to find with my paddling in the
stern, but I complained that he did not paddle according to his own
directions in the bows.

As we drew near to Oldtown I asked Polis if he was not glad to get home
again; but there was no relenting to his wildness, and he said, "It
makes no difference to me where I am." Such is the Indian's pretense
always.

We approached the Indian Island through the narrow strait called "Cook."
He said: "I 'xpect we take in some water there, river so high--never see
it so high at this season. Very rough water there; swamp steamboat once.
Don't you paddle till I tell you. Then you paddle right along."

It was a very short rapid. When we were in the midst of it he shouted,
"Paddle!" and we shot through without taking in a drop. Soon after the
Indian houses came in sight. I could not at first tell my companion
which of two or three large white ones was our guide's. He said it was
the one with blinds.

We landed opposite his door at about four in the afternoon, having come
some forty miles this day. We stopped for an hour at his house. Mrs. P.
wore a hat and had a silver brooch on her breast, but she was not
introduced to us. The house was roomy and neat. A large new map of
Oldtown and the Indian Island hung on the wall, and a clock opposite to
it.

This was the last that I saw of Joe Polis. We took the last train, and
reached Bangor that night.



I

THE SHIPWRECK

Wishing to get a better view than I had yet had of the ocean, which, we
are told, covers more than two-thirds of the globe, but of which a man
who lives a few miles inland may never see any trace, more than of
another world, I made a visit to Cape Cod in October, 1849, another the
succeeding June, and another to Truro in July, 1855; the first and last
time with a single companion, the second time alone. I have spent, in
all, about three weeks on the Cape; walked from Eastham to Province-town
twice on the Atlantic side, and once on the Bay side also, excepting
four or five miles, and crossed the Cape half a dozen times on my way;
but having come so fresh to the sea, I have got but little salted. My
readers must expect only so much saltness as the land breeze acquires
from blowing over an arm of the sea, or is tasted on the windows and the
bark of trees twenty miles inland, after September gales. I have been
accustomed to make excursions to the ponds within ten miles of Concord,
but latterly I have extended my excursions to the seashore.

I did not see why I might not make a book on Cape Cod, as well as my
neighbor on "Human Culture." It is but another name for the same thing,
and hardly a sandier phase of it. As for my title, I suppose that the
word Cape is from the French _cap_; which is from the Latin _caput_, a
head; which is, perhaps, from the verb _capere_, to take,--that being
the part by which we take hold of a thing:--Take Time by the forelock.
It is also the safest part to take a serpent by. And as for Cod, that
was derived directly from that "great store of codfish" which Captain
Bartholomew Gosnold caught there in 1602; which fish appears to have
been so called from the Saxon word _codde_, "a case in which seeds are
lodged," either from the form of the fish, or the quantity of spawn it
contains; whence also, perhaps, _codling_ (_pomum coctile?_) and
coddle,--to cook green like peas. (V. Dic.)

Cape Cod is the bared and bended arm of Massachusetts: the shoulder is
at Buzzard's Bay; the elbow, or crazy-bone, at Cape Mallebarre; the
wrist at Truro; and the sandy fist at Provincetown,--behind which the
State stands on her guard, with her back to the Green Mountains, and her
feet planted on the floor of the ocean, like an athlete protecting her
Bay,--boxing with northeast storms, and, ever and anon, heaving up her
Atlantic adversary from the lap of earth,--ready to thrust forward her
other fist, which keeps guard the while upon her breast at Cape Ann.

On studying the map, I saw that there must be an uninterrupted beach on
the east or outside of the forearm of the Cape, more than thirty miles
from the general line of the coast, which would afford a good sea view,
but that, on account of an opening in the beach, forming the entrance to
Nauset Harbor, in Orleans, I must strike it in Eastham, if I approached
it by land, and probably I could walk thence straight to Race Point,
about twenty-eight miles, and not meet with any obstruction.

We left Concord, Massachusetts, on Tuesday, October 9th, 1849. On
reaching Boston, we found that the Provincetown steamer, which should
have got in the day before, had not yet arrived, on account of a violent
storm; and, as we noticed in the streets a handbill headed, "Death! one
hundred and forty-five lives lost at Cohasset," we decided to go by way
of Cohasset. We found many Irish in the cars, going to identify bodies
and to sympathize with the survivors, and also to attend the funeral
which was to take place in the afternoon;--and when we arrived at
Cohasset, it appeared that nearly all the passengers were bound for the
beach, which was about a mile distant, and many other persons were
flocking in from the neighboring country. There were several hundreds of
them streaming off over Cohasset common in that direction, some on foot
and some in wagons,--and among them were some sportsmen in their
hunting-jackets, with their guns, and game-bags, and dogs. As we passed
the graveyard we saw a large hole, like a cellar, freshly dug there,
and, just before reaching the shore, by a pleasantly winding and rocky
road, we met several hay-riggings and farm-wagons coming away toward the
meeting-house, each loaded with three large, rough deal boxes. We did
not need to ask what was in them. The owners of the wagons were made the
undertakers. Many horses in carriages were fastened to the fences near
the shore, and, for a mile or more, up and down, the beach was covered
with people looking out for bodies, and examining the fragments of the
wreck. There was a small island called Brook Island, with a hut on it,
lying just off the shore. This is said to be the rockiest shore in
Massachusetts, from Nantasket to Scituate,--hard sienitic rocks, which
the waves have laid bare, but have not been able to crumble. It has been
the scene of many a shipwreck.

The brig _St. John_, from Galway, Ireland, laden with emigrants, was
wrecked on Sunday morning; it was now Tuesday morning, and the sea was
still breaking violently on the rocks. There were eighteen or twenty of
the same large boxes that I have mentioned, lying on a green hillside, a
few rods from the water, and surrounded by a crowd. The bodies which had
been recovered, twenty-seven or eight in all, had been collected there.
Some were rapidly nailing down the lids, others were carting the boxes
away, and others were lifting the lids, which were yet loose, and
peeping under the cloths, for each body, with such rags as still adhered
to it, was covered loosely with a white sheet. I witnessed no signs of
grief, but there was a sober dispatch of business which was affecting.
One man was seeking to identify a particular body, and one undertaker or
carpenter was calling to another to know in what box a certain child was
put. I saw many marble feet and matted heads as the cloths were raised,
and one livid, swollen, and mangled body of a drowned girl,--who
probably had intended to go out to service in some American family,--to
which some rags still adhered, with a string, half concealed by the
flesh, about its swollen neck; the coiled-up wreck of a human hulk,
gashed by the rocks or fishes, so that the bone and muscle were exposed,
but quite bloodless,--merely red and white,--with wide-open and staring
eyes, yet lustreless, dead-lights; or like the cabin windows of a
stranded vessel, filled with sand. Sometimes there were two or more
children, or a parent and child, in the same box, and on the lid would
perhaps be written with red chalk, "Bridget such-a-one, and sister's
child." The surrounding sward was covered with bits of sails and
clothing. I have since heard, from one who lives by this beach, that a
woman who had come over before, but had left her infant behind for her
sister to bring, came and looked into these boxes and saw in
one,--probably the same whose superscription I have quoted,--her child
in her sister's arms, as if the sister had meant to be found thus; and
within three days after, the mother died from the effect of that sight.

We turned from this and walked along the rocky shore. In the first cove
were strewn what seemed the fragments of a vessel, in small pieces mixed
with sand and sea-weed, and great quantities of feathers; but it looked
so old and rusty, that I at first took it to be some old wreck which had
lain there many years. I even thought of Captain Kidd, and that the
feathers were those which sea-fowl had cast there; and perhaps there
might be some tradition about it in the neighborhood. I asked a sailor
if that was the _St. John_. He said it was. I asked him where she struck.
He pointed to a rock in front of us, a mile from the shore, called the
Grampus Rock, and added:

"You can see a part of her now sticking up; it looks like a small boat."

I saw it. It was thought to be held by the chain-cables and the anchors.
I asked if the bodies which I saw were all that were drowned.

"Not a quarter of them," said he.

"Where are the rest?"

"Most of them right underneath that piece you see."

It appeared to us that there was enough rubbish to make the wreck of a
large vessel in this cove alone, and that it would take many days to
cart it off. It was several feet deep, and here and there was a bonnet
or a jacket on it. In the very midst of the crowd about this wreck,
there were men with carts busily collecting the sea-weed which the storm
had cast up, and conveying it beyond the reach of the tide, though they
were often obliged to separate fragments of clothing from it, and they
might at any moment have found a human body under it. Drown who might,
they did not forget that this weed was a valuable manure. This shipwreck
had not produced a visible vibration in the fabric of society.

About a mile south we could see, rising above the rocks, the masts of
the British brig which the _St. John_ had endeavored to follow, which had
slipped her cables and, by good luck, run into the mouth of Cohasset
Harbor. A little further along the shore we saw a man's clothes on a
rock; further, a woman's scarf, a gown, a straw bonnet, the brig's
caboose, and one of her masts high and dry, broken into several pieces.
In another rocky cove, several rods from the water, and behind rocks
twenty feet high, lay a part of one side of the vessel, still hanging
together. It was, perhaps, forty feet long, by fourteen wide. I was even
more surprised at the power of the waves, exhibited on this shattered
fragment, than I had been at the sight of the smaller fragments before.
The largest timbers and iron braces were broken superfluously, and I saw
that no material could withstand the power of the waves; that iron must
go to pieces in such a case, and an iron vessel would be cracked up like
an egg-shell on the rocks. Some of these timbers, however, were so
rotten that I could almost thrust my umbrella through them. They told us
that some were saved on this piece, and also showed where the sea had
heaved it into this cove, which was now dry. When I saw where it had
come in, and in what condition, I wondered that any had been saved on
it. A little further on a crowd of men was collected around the mate of
the _St. John_, who was telling his story. He was a slim-looking youth,
who spoke of the captain as the master, and seemed a little excited. He
was saying that when they jumped into the boat, she filled, and, the
vessel lurching, the weight of the water in the boat caused the painter
to break, and so they were separated. Whereat one man came away,
saying:--

"Well, I don't see but he tells a straight story enough. You see, the
weight of the water in the boat broke the painter. A boat full of water
is very heavy,"--and so on, in a loud and impertinently earnest tone, as
if he had a bet depending on it, but had no humane interest in the
matter.

Another, a large man, stood near by upon a rock, gazing into the sea,
and chewing large quids of tobacco, as if that habit were forever
confirmed with him.

"Come," says another to his companion, "let's be off. We've seen the
whole of it. It's no use to stay to the funeral."

Further, we saw one standing upon a rock, who, we were told, was one
that was saved. He was a sober-looking man, dressed in a jacket and gray
pantaloons, with his hands in the pockets. I asked him a few questions,
which he answered; but he seemed unwilling to talk about it, and soon
walked away. By his side stood one of the life-boatmen, in an oil-cloth
jacket, who told us how they went to the relief of the British brig,
thinking that the boat of the _St. John_, which they passed on the way,
held all her crew,--for the waves prevented their seeing those who were
on the vessel, though they might have saved some had they known there
were any there. A little further was the flag of the _St. John_ spread on
a rock to dry, and held down by stones at the corners. This frail, but
essential and significant portion of the vessel, which had so long been
the sport of the winds, was sure to reach the shore. There were one or
two houses visible from these rocks, in which were some of the survivors
recovering from the shock which their bodies and minds had sustained.
One was not expected to live.

We kept on down the shore as far as a promontory called Whitehead, that
we might see more of the Cohasset Rocks. In a little cove, within half a
mile, there were an old man and his son collecting, with their team, the
sea-weed which that fatal storm had cast up, as serenely employed as if
there had never been a wreck in the world, though they were within sight
of the Grampus Rock, on which the _St. John_ had struck. The old man had
heard that there was a wreck, and knew most of the particulars, but he
said that he had not been up there since it happened. It was the wrecked
weed that concerned him most, rock-weed, kelp, and sea-weed, as he named
them, which he carted to his barn-yard; and those bodies were to him but
other weeds which the tide cast up, but which were of no use to him. We
afterwards came to the life-boat in its harbor, waiting for another
emergency,--and in the afternoon we saw the funeral procession at a
distance, at the head of which walked the captain with the other
survivors.

On the whole, it was not so impressive a scene as I might have expected.
If I had found one body cast upon the beach in some lonely place, it
would have affected me more. I sympathized rather with the winds and
waves, as if to toss and mangle these poor human bodies was the order of
the day. If this was the law of Nature, why waste any time in awe or
pity? If the last day were come, we should not think so much about the
separation of friends or the blighted prospects of individuals. I saw
that corpses might be multiplied, as on the field of battle, till they
no longer affected us in any degree, as exceptions to the common lot of
humanity. Take all the graveyards together, they are always the
majority. It is the individual and private that demands our sympathy. A
man can attend but one funeral in the course of his life, can behold but
one corpse. Yet I saw that the inhabitants of the shore would be not a
little affected by this event. They would watch there many days and
nights for the sea to give up its dead, and their imaginations and
sympathies would supply the place of mourners far away, who as yet knew
not of the wreck. Many days after this, something white was seen
floating on the water by one who was sauntering on the beach. It was
approached in a boat, and found to be the body of a woman, which had
risen in an upright position, whose white cap was blown back with the
wind. I saw that the beauty of the shore itself was wrecked for many a
lonely walker there, until he could perceive, at last, how its beauty
was enhanced by wrecks like this, and it acquired thus a rarer and
sublimer beauty still.

[Illustration: Cohasset--The little cove at Whitehead promontory]

Why care for these dead bodies? They really have no friends but the
worms or fishes. Their owners were coming to the New World, as Columbus
and the Pilgrims did,--they were within a mile of its shores; but,
before they could reach it, they emigrated to a newer world than ever
Columbus dreamed of, yet one of whose existence we believe that there is
far more universal and convincing evidence--though it has not yet been
discovered by science--than Columbus had of this; not merely mariners'
tales and some paltry drift-wood and sea-weed, but a continual drift and
instinct to all our shores. I saw their empty hulks that came to land;
but they themselves, meanwhile, were cast upon some shore yet further
west, toward which we are all tending, and which we shall reach at last,
it may be through storm and darkness, as they did. No doubt, we have
reason to thank God that they have not been "shipwrecked into life
again." The mariner who makes the safest port in Heaven, perchance,
seems to his friends on earth to be shipwrecked, for they deem Boston
Harbor the better place; though perhaps invisible to them, a skillful
pilot comes to meet him, and the fairest and balmiest gales blow off
that coast, his good ship makes the land in halcyon days, and he kisses
the shore in rapture there, while his old hulk tosses in the surf here.
It is hard to part with one's body, but, no doubt, it is easy enough to
do without it when once it is gone. All their plans and hopes burst like
a bubble! Infants by the score dashed on the rocks by the enraged
Atlantic Ocean! No, no! If the _St. John_ did not make her port here, she
has been telegraphed there. The strongest wind cannot stagger a Spirit;
it is a Spirit's breath. A just man's purpose cannot be split on any
Grampus or material rock, but itself will split rocks till it succeeds.

The verses addressed to Columbus, dying, may, with slight alterations,
be applied to the passengers of the _St. John:_--

  "Soon with them will all be over,
  Soon the voyage will be begun
  That shall bear them to discover,
  Far away, a land unknown.

  "Land that each, alone, must visit,
  But no tidings bring to men;
  For no sailor, once departed,
  Ever hath returned again.

  "No carved wood, no broken branches,
  Ever drift from that far wild;
  He who on that ocean launches
  Meets no corse of angel child.

  "Undismayed, my noble sailors,
  Spread, then spread your canvas out;
  Spirits! on a sea of ether
  Soon shall ye serenely float!

  "Where the deep no plummet soundeth,
  Fear no hidden breakers there,
  And the fanning wing of angels
  Shall your bark right onward bear.

  "Quit, now, full of heart and comfort,
  These rude shores, they are of earth;
  Where the rosy clouds are parting,
  There the blessed isles loom forth."

One summer day, since this, I came this way, on foot, along the shore
from Boston. It was so warm that some horses had climbed to the very top
of the ramparts of the old fort at Hull, where there was hardly room to
turn round, for the sake of the breeze. The _Datura stramonium_, or
thorn-apple, was in full bloom along the beach; and, at sight of this
cosmopolite,--this Captain Cook among plants,--carried in ballast all
over the world, I felt as if I were on the highway of nations. Say,
rather, this Viking, king of the Bays, for it is not an innocent plant;
it suggests not merely commerce, but its attend-ant vices, as if its
fibres were the stuff of which pirates spin their yarns. I heard the
voices of men shouting aboard a vessel, half a mile from the shore,
which sounded as if they were in a barn in the country, they being
between the sails. It was a purely rural sound. As I looked over the
water, I saw the isles rapidly wasting away, the sea nibbling
voraciously at the continent, the springing arch of a hill suddenly
interrupted, as at Point Alderton,--what botanists might call
premorse,--showing, by its curve against the sky, how much space it must
have occupied, where now was water only, On the other hand, these wrecks
of isles were being fancifully arranged into new shores, as at Hog
Island, inside of Hull, where everything seemed to be gently lapsing,
into futurity. This isle had got the very form of a ripple,--and I
thought that the inhabitants should bear a ripple for device on their
shields, a wave passing over them, with the _datura_, which is said to
produce mental alienation of long duration without affecting the bodily
health, [1] springing from its edge. The most interesting thing which I
heard of, in this township of Hull, was an unfailing spring, whose
locality was pointed out to me, on the side of a distant hill, as I was
panting along the shore, though I did not visit it. Perhaps, if I should
go through Rome, it would be some spring on the Capitoline Hill I should
remember the longest. It is true, I was somewhat interested in the well
at the old French fort, which was said to be ninety feet deep, with a
cannon at the bottom of it. On Nantasket beach I counted a dozen chaises
from the public-house. From time to time the riders turned their horses
toward the sea, standing in the water for the coolness,--and I saw the
value of beaches to cities for the sea breeze and the bath.

At Jerusalem village the inhabitants were collecting in haste, before a
thunder-shower now approaching, the Irish moss which they had spread to
dry. The shower passed on one side, and gave me a few drops only, which
did not cool the air. I merely felt a puff upon my cheek, though, within
sight, a vessel was capsized in the bay, and several others dragged
their anchors, and were near going ashore. The sea-bathing at Cohasset
Rocks was perfect. The water was purer and more transparent than any I
had ever seen. There was not a particle of mud or slime about it. The
bottom being sandy, I could see the sea-perch swimming about. The smooth
and fantastically worn rocks, and the perfectly clean and tress-like
rock-weeds falling over you, and attached so firmly to the rocks that
you could pull yourself up by them, greatly enhanced the luxury of the
bath. The stripe of barnacles just above the weeds reminded me of some
vegetable growth,--the buds, and petals, and seed-vessels of flowers.
They lay along the seams of the rock like buttons on a waistcoat. It was
one of the hottest days in the year, yet I found the water so icy cold
that I could swim but a stroke or two, and thought that, in case of
shipwreck, there would be more danger of being chilled to death than
simply drowned. One immersion was enough to make you forget the dog-days
utterly. Though you were sweltering before, it will take you half an
hour now to remember that it was ever warm. There were the tawny rocks,
like lions couchant, defying the ocean, whose waves incessantly dashed
against and scoured them with vast quantities of gravel. The water held
in their little hollows, on the receding of the tide, was so crystalline
that I could not believe it salt, but wished to drink it; and higher up
were basins of fresh water left by the rain,--all which, being also of
different depths and temperature, were convenient for different kinds of
baths. Also, the larger hollows in the smoothed rocks formed the most
convenient of seats and dressing-rooms. In these respects it was the
most perfect seashore that I had seen.

I saw in Cohasset, separated from the sea only by a narrow beach, a
handsome but shallow lake of some four hundred acres, which, I was told,
the sea had tossed over the beach in a great storm in the spring, and,
after the alewives had passed into it, it had stopped up its outlet, and
now the alewives were dying: by thousands, and the inhabitants were
apprehending a pestilence as the water evaporated. It had live rocky
islets in it.

This Rock shore is called Pleasant Cove, on some maps; on the map of
Cohasset, that name appears to be confined to the particular cove where
I saw the wreck of the St. J aim. The ocean did not look, now, as if any
were ever shipwrecked in it; it was not grand and sub-lime, but
beautiful as a lake. Not a vestige of a wreck was visible, nor could I
believe that the bones of many a shipwrecked man were buried in that
pure sand. But to go on with our first excursion.

[1] The Jamestown weed (or thorn-apple). "This, being an early plant,
was gathered very young for a boiled salad, by some of the soldiers sent
thither [_i.e._ to Virginia] to quell the rebellion of Bacon; and some of
them ate plentifully of it, the effect of which was a very pleasant
comedy, for they turned natural fools upon it for several days: one
would blow up a feather in the air; another would dart straws at it with
much fury; and another, stark naked, was sitting up in a corner like a
monkey, grinning and making mows at them; a fourth would fondly kiss and
paw his companions, and sneer in their faces, with a countenance more
antic than any in a Dutch droll. In this frantic condition they were
confined, lest they should, in their folly, destroy themselves,--though
it was observed that all their actions were full of innocence and good
nature. Indeed, they were not very cleanly. A thousand such simple
tricks they played, and after eleven days returned to themselves again,
not remembering anything that had passed."--Beverly's _History of
Virginia_, p. 120.



II

STAGE-COACH VIEWS

After spending the night in Bridgewater, and picking up a few
arrow-heads there in the morning, we took the cars for Sandwich, where
we arrived before noon. This was the terminus of the "Cape Cod
Railroad," though it is but the beginning of the Cape. As it rained
hard, with driving mists, and there was no sign of its holding up, we
here took that almost obsolete conveyance, the stage, for "as far as it
went that day," as we told the driver. We had for-gotten how far a stage
could go in a day, but we were told that the Cape roads were very
"heavy," though they added that, being of sand, the rain would improve
them. This coach was an exceedingly narrow one, but as there was a
slight spherical excess over two on a seat, the driver waited till nine
passengers had got in, without taking the measure of any of them, and
then shut the door after two or three ineffectual slams, as if the fault
were all in the hinges or the latch,--while we timed our inspirations
and expirations so as to assist him.

We were now fairly on the Cape, which extends from Sandwich eastward
thirty-five miles, and thence north and northwest thirty more, in all
sixty-five, and has an average breadth of about five miles. In the
interior it rises to the height of two hundred, and sometimes perhaps
three hundred feet above the level of the sea. According to Hitchcock,
the geologist of the State, it is composed almost entirely of sand, even
to the depth of three hundred feet in some places, though there is
probably a concealed core of rock a little beneath the surface, and it
is of diluvian origin, excepting a small portion at the extremity and
elsewhere along the shores, which is alluvial. For the first half of the
Cape large blocks of stone are found, here and there, mixed with the
sand, but for the last thirty miles boulders, or even gravel, are rarely
met with. Hitchcock conjectures that the ocean has, in course of time,
eaten out Boston, Harbor and other bays in the mainland, and that the
minute fragments have been deposited by the currents at a distance from
the shore, and formed this sand-bank. Above the sand, if the surface is
subjected to agricultural tests, there is found to be a thin layer of
soil gradually diminishing from Barnstable to Truro, where it ceases;
but there are many holes and rents in this weather-beaten garment not
likely to be stitched in time, which reveal the naked flesh of the Cape,
and its extremity is completely bare.

I at once got out my book, the eighth volume of the Collections of the
Massachusetts Historical Society, printed in 1802, which contains some
short notices of the Cape towns, and began to read up to where I was,
for in the cars I could not read as fast as I travelled. To those who
came from the side of Plymouth, it said: "After riding through a body of
woods, twelve miles in extent, interspersed with but few houses, the
settlement of Sandwich appears, with a more agreeable effect, to the eye
of the traveller." Another writer speaks of this as a _beautiful_ village.
But I think that our villages will bear to be contrasted only with one
another, not with Nature. I have no great respect for the writer's
taste, who talks easily about beautiful villages, embellished,
perchance, with a "fulling-mill," "a handsome academy," or
meeting-house, and "a number of shops for the different mechanic arts";
where the green and white houses of the gentry, drawn up in rows, front
on a street of which it would be difficult to tell whether it is most
like a desert or a long stable-yard. Such spots can be beautiful only to
the weary traveller, or the returning native,--or, perchance, the
repentant misanthrope; not to him who, with unprejudiced senses, has
just come out of the woods, and approaches one of them, by a bare road,
through a succession of straggling homesteads where he cannot tell which
is the alms-house. However, as for Sandwich, I cannot speak
particularly. Ours was but half a Sandwich at most, and that must have
fallen on the buttered side some time. I only saw that it was a closely
built town for a small one, with glass-works to improve its sand, and
narrow streets in which we turned round and round till we could not tell
which way we were going, and the rain came in, first on this side, and
then on that, and I saw that they in the houses were more comfortable
than we in the coach. My book also said of this town, "The inhabitants,
in general, are substantial livers."--that is. I suppose, they do not
live like philosophers: but, as the stage did not stop long enough for
us to dine, we had no opportunity to test the truth of this statement.
It may have referred, however, to the quantity "of oil they would
yield." It further said, "The inhabitants of Sandwich generally manifest
a fond and steady adherence to the manners, employments, and modes of
living which characterized their fathers"; which made me think that they
were, after all, very much like all the rest of the world;--and it added
that this was "a resemblance, which, at this day, will constitute no
impeachment of either their virtue or taste": which remark proves to me
that the writer was one with the rest of them. No people ever lived by
cursing their fathers, however great a curse their fathers might have
been to them. But it must be confessed that ours was old authority, and
probably they have changed all that now.

[Illustration: An old windmill]

Our route was along the Bay side, through Barnstable, Yarmouth, Dennis,
and Brewster, to Orleans, with a range of low hills on our right,
running down the Cape. The weather was not favorable for wayside views,
but we made the most of such glimpses of land and water as we could get
through the rain. The country was, for the most part, bare, or with only
a little scrubby wood left on the hills. We noticed in Yarmouth--and, if
I do not mistake, in Dennis--large tracts where pitch-pines were planted
four or five years before. They were in rows, as they appeared when we
were abreast of them, and, excepting that there were extensive vacant
spaces, seemed to be doing remarkably well. This, we were told, was the
only use to which such tracts could be profitably put. Every higher
eminence had a pole set up on it, with an old storm-coat or sail tied to
it, for a signal, that those on the south side of the Cape, for
instance, might know when the Boston packets had arrived on the north.
It appeared as if this use must absorb the greater part of the old
clothes of the Cape, leaving but few rags for the pedlers. The
wind-mills on the hills,--large weather-stained octagonal
structures,--and the salt-works scattered all along the shore, with
their long rows of vats resting on piles driven into the marsh, their
low, turtle-like roofs, and their slighter wind-mills, were novel and
interesting objects to an inlander. The sand by the road-side was
partially covered with bunches of a moss-like plant, _Hudsonia tomentosa_,
which a woman in the stage told us was called "poverty-grass," because
it grew where nothing else would.

I was struck by the pleasant equality which reigned among the stage
company, and their broad and invulnerable good-humor. They were what is
called free and easy, and met one another to advantage, as men who had
at length learned how to live. They appeared to know each other when
they were strangers, they were so simple and downright. They were well
met, in an unusual sense, that is, they met as well as they could meet,
and did not seem to be troubled with any impediment. They were not
afraid nor ashamed of one another, but were contented to make just such
a company as the ingredients allowed. It was evident that the same
foolish respect was not here claimed for mere wealth and station that is
in many parts of New England; yet some of them were the "first people,"
as they are called, of the various towns through which we passed.
Retired sea-captains, in easy circumstances, who talked of farming as
sea-captains are wont; an erect, respectable, and trustworthy-looking
man, in his wrapper, some of the salt of the earth, who had formerly
been the salt of the sea; or a more courtly gentleman, who, per-chance,
had been a representative to the General Court in his day; or a broad,
red-faced Cape Cod man, who had seen too many storms to be easily
irritated; or a fisherman's wife, who had been waiting a week for a
coaster to leave Boston, and had at length come by the cars.

A strict regard for truth obliges us to say that the few women whom we
saw that day looked exceedingly pinched up. They had prominent chins and
noses, having lost all their teeth, and a sharp _W_ would represent their
profile. They were not so well preserved as their husbands; or perchance
they were well preserved as dried specimens. (Their husbands, however,
were pickled.) But we respect them not the less for all that; our own
dental system is far from perfect.

Still we kept on in the rain, or, if we stopped, it was commonly at a
post-office, and we thought that writing letters, and sorting them
against our arrival, must be the principal employment of the inhabitants
of the Cape this rainy day. The post-office appeared a singularly
domestic institution here. Ever and anon the stage stopped before some
low shop or dwelling, and a wheelwright or shoemaker appeared in his
shirt sleeves and leather apron, with spectacles newly donned, holding
up Uncle Sam's bag, as if it were a slice of home-made cake, for the
travellers, while he retailed some piece of gossip to the driver, really
as indifferent to the presence of the former as if they were so much
baggage. In one instance we understood that a woman was the
postmistress, and they said that she made the best one on the road; but
we suspected that the letters must be subjected to a very close scrutiny
there. While we were stopping for this purpose at Dennis, we ventured to
put our heads out of the windows, to see where we were going, and saw
rising before us, through the mist, singular barren hills, all stricken
with poverty-grass, looming up as if they were in the horizon, though
they were close to us, and we seemed to have got to the end of the land
on that side, notwithstanding that the horses were still headed that
way. Indeed, that part of Dennis which we saw was an exceedingly barren
and desolate country, of a character which I can find no name for; such
a surface, perhaps, as the bottom of the sea made dry land day before
yesterday. It was covered with poverty-grass, and there was hardly a
tree in sight, but here and there a little weather-stained, one-storied
house, with a red roof,--for often the roof was painted, though the rest
of the house was not,--standing bleak and cheerless, yet with a broad
foundation to the land, where the comfort must have been all inside. Yet
we read in the Gazetteer--for we carried that too with us--that, in
1837, one hundred and fifty masters of vessels, belonging to this town,
sailed from the various ports of the Union. There must be many more
houses in the south part of the town, else we cannot imagine where they
all lodge when they are at home, if ever they are there; but the truth
is, their houses are floating ones, and their home is on the ocean.
There were almost no trees at all in this part of Dennis, nor could I
learn that they talked of setting out any. It is true, there was a
meeting-house, set round with Lombardy poplars, in a hollow square, the
rows fully as straight as the studs of a building, and the corners as
square; but, if I do not mistake, every one of them was dead. I could
not help thinking that they needed a revival here. Our book said that,
in 1795, there was erected in Dennis "an elegant meeting-house, with a
steeple." Perhaps this was the one; though whether it had a steeple, or
had died down so far from sympathy with the poplars, I do not remember.
Another meeting-house in this town was described as a "neat building";
but of the meeting-house in Chatham, a neigh-boring town, for there was
then but one, nothing is said, except that it "is in good repair,"--both
which remarks, I trust, may be understood as applying to the churches
spiritual as well as material. However, "elegant meeting-houses," from
that Trinity one on Broadway, to this at Nobscusset, in my estimation,
belong to the same category with "beautiful villages." I was never in
season to see one. Handsome is that handsome does. What they did for
shade here, in warm weather, we did not know, though we read that "fogs
are more frequent in Chatham than in any other part of the country; and
they serve in summer, instead of trees, to shelter the houses against
the heat of the sun. To those who delight in extensive vision,"--is it
to be inferred that the inhabitants of Chatham do not?--"they are
unpleasant, but they are not found to be unhealthful." Probably, also,
the unobstructed sea-breeze answers the purpose of a fan. The historian
of Chatham says further, that "in many families there is no difference
between the breakfast and supper; cheese, cakes, and pies being as
common at the one as at the other." But that leaves us still uncertain
whether they were really common at either.

[Illustration: A street in Sandwich]

The road, which was quite hilly, here ran near the Bay-shore, having the
Bay on one side, and "the rough hill of Scargo," said to be the highest
land on the Cape, on the other. Of the wide prospect of the Bay afforded
by the summit of this hill, our guide says: "The view has not much of
the beautiful in it, but it communicates a strong emotion of the
sublime." That is the kind of communication which we love to have made
to us. We passed through the village of Suet, in Dennis, on Suet and
Quivet Necks, of which it is said, "when compared with Nobscusset,"--we
had a misty recollection of having passed through, or near to, the
latter,--"it may be denominated a pleasant village; but, in comparison
with the village of Sandwich, there is little or no beauty in it."
However, we liked Dennis well, better than any town we had seen on the
Cape, it was so novel, and, in that stormy day, so sublimely dreary.

Captain John Sears, of Suet, was the first per-son in this country who
obtained pure marine salt by solar evaporation alone; though it had long
been made in a similar way on the coast of France, and elsewhere. This
was in the year 1776, at which time, on account of the war, salt was
scarce and dear. The Historical Collections contain an interesting
account of his experiments, which we read when we first saw the roofs of
the salt-works. Barnstable county is the most favorable locality for
these works on our northern coast,--there is so little fresh water here
emptying into ocean. Quite recently there were about two millions of
dollars invested in this business here. But now the Cape is unable to
compete with the importers of salt and the manufacturers of it at the
West, and, accordingly, her salt-works are fast going to decay. From
making salt, they turn to fishing more than ever. The Gazetteer will
uniformly tell you, under the head of each town, how many go a-fishing,
and the value of the fish and oil taken, how much salt is made and used,
how many are engaged in the coasting trade, how many in manufacturing
palm-leaf hats, leather, boots, shoes, and tinware, and then it has
done, and leaves you to imagine the more truly domestic manufactures
which are nearly the same all the world over.

Late in the afternoon, we rode through Brewster, so named after Elder
Brewster, for fear he would be forgotten else. Who has not heard of
Elder Brewster? Who knows who he was? This appeared to be the
modern-built town of the Cape, the favorite residence of retired
sea-captains. It is said that "there are more masters and mates of
vessels which sail on foreign voyages belonging to this place than to
any other town in the country." There were many of the modern American
houses here, such as they turn out at Cambridgeport, standing on the
sand; you could almost swear that they had been floated down Charles
River, and drifted across the Bay. I call them American, because they
are paid for by Americans, and "put up" by American carpenters; but they
are little removed from lumber; only Eastern stuff disguised with white
paint, the least interesting kind of drift-wood to me. Perhaps we have
reason to be proud of our naval architecture, and need not go to the
Greeks, or the Goths, or the Italians, for the models of our vessels.
Sea-captains do not employ a Cambridgeport carpenter to build their
floating houses, and for their houses on shore, if they must copy any,
it would be more agreeable to the imagination to see one of their
vessels turned bottom upward, in the Numidian fashion. We read that, "at
certain seasons, the reflection of the sun upon the windows of the
houses in Well-fleet and Truro (across the inner side of the elbow of
the Cape) is discernible with the naked eye, at a distance of eighteen
miles and upward, on the county road." This we were pleased to imagine,
as we had not seen the sun for twenty-four hours.

[Illustration: The old Higgins tavern at Orleans]

The same author (the Rev. John Simpkins) said of the inhabitants, a good
while ago: "No persons appear to have a greater relish for the social
circle and domestic pleasures. They are not in the habit of frequenting
taverns, unless on public occasions. I know not of a proper idler or
tavern-haunter in the place." This is more than can be said of my
townsmen.

At length we stopped for the night at Higgins's tavern, in Orleans,
feeling very much as if we were on a sand-bar in the ocean, and not
knowing whether we should see land or water ahead when the mist cleared
away. We here overtook two Italian boys, who had waded thus far down the
Cape through the sand, with their organs on their backs, and were going
on to Provincetown. What a hard lot, we thought, if the Provincetown
people should shut their doors against them! Whose yard would they go to
next? Yet we concluded that they had chosen wisely to come here, where
other music than that of the surf must be rare. Thus the great civilizer
sends out its emissaries, sooner or later, to every sandy cape and
light-house of the New World which the census-taker visits, and summons
the savage there to surrender.



III

THE PLAINS OF NAUSET

The next morning, Thursday, October 11th, it rained, as hard as ever;
but we were determined to proceed on foot, nevertheless. We first made
some inquiries with regard to the practicability of walking up the shore
on the Atlantic side to Provincetown, whether we should meet with any
creeks or marshes to trouble us. Higgins said that there was no
obstruction, and that it was not much farther than by the road, but he
thought that we should find it very "heavy" walking in the sand; it was
bad enough in the road, a horse would sink in up to the fetlocks there.
But there was one man at the tavern who had walked it, and he said that
we could go very well, though it was sometimes inconvenient and even
dangerous walking under the bank, when there was a great tide, with an
easterly wind, which caused the sand to cave. For the first four or five
miles we followed the road, which here turns to the north on the elbow,
--the narrowest part of the Cape,--that we might clear an inlet from the
ocean, a part of Nauset Harbor, in Orleans, on our right. We found the
travelling good enough for walkers on the sides of the roads, though it
was "heavy" for horses in the middle. We walked with our umbrellas
behind us, since it blowed hard as well as rained, with driving mists,
as the day before, and the wind helped us over the sand at a rapid rate.
Everything indicated that we had reached a strange shore. The road was a
mere lane, winding over bare swells of bleak and barren-looking land.
The houses were few and far between, besides being small and rusty,
though they appeared to be kept in good repair, and their dooryards,
which were the unfenced Cape, were tidy; or, rather, they looked as if
the ground around them was blown clean by the wind. Perhaps the scarcity
of wood here, and the consequent absence of the wood-pile and other
wooden traps, had something to do with this appearance. They seemed,
like mariners ashore, to have sat right down to enjoy the firmness of
the land, without studying their postures or habiliments. To them it was
merely _terra firma_ and _cognita_, not yet _fertilis_ and _jucunda_. Every
landscape which is dreary enough has a certain beauty to my eyes, and in
this instance its permanent qualities were enhanced by the weather.
Everything told of the sea, even when we did not see its waste or hear
its roar. For birds there were gulls, and for carts in the fields, boats
turned bottom upward against the houses, and sometimes the rib of a
whale was woven into the fence by the road-side. The trees were, if
possible, rarer than the houses, excepting apple-trees, of which there
were a few small orchards in the hollows. These were either narrow and
high, with flat tops, having lost their side branches, like huge
plum-bushes growing in exposed situations, or else dwarfed and branching
immediately at the ground, like quince-bushes. They suggested that,
under like circumstances, all trees would at last acquire like habits of
growth. I afterward saw on the Cape many full-grown apple-trees not
higher than a man's head; one whole orchard, indeed, where all the fruit
could have been gathered by a man standing on the ground; but you could
hardly creep beneath the trees. Some, which the owners told me were
twenty years old, were only three and a half feet high, spreading at six
inches from the ground five feet each way, and being withal surrounded
with boxes of tar to catch the cankerworms, they looked like plants in
flower-pots, and as if they might be taken into the house in the winter.
In another place, I saw some not much larger than currant-bushes; yet
the owner told me that they had borne a barrel and a half of apples that
fall. If they had been placed close together, I could have cleared them
all at a jump. I measured some near the Highland Light in Truro, which
had been taken from the shrubby woods thereabouts when young, and
grafted. One, which had been set ten years, was on an average eighteen
inches high, and spread nine feet with a flat top. It had borne one
bushel of apples two years before. Another, probably twenty years old
from the seed, was five feet high, and spread eighteen feet, branching,
as usual, at the ground, so that you could not creep under it. This bore
a barrel of apples two years before. The owner of these trees invariably
used the personal pronoun in speaking of them; as, "I got _him_ out of the
woods, but _he_ doesn't bear." The largest that I saw in that neighborhood
was nine feet high to the topmost leaf, and spread thirty-three feet,
branching at the ground five ways.

[Illustration: A Nauset lane]

In one yard I observed a single, very healthy-looking tree, while all
the rest were dead or dying. The occupant said that his father had
manured all but that one with blackfish.

This habit of growth should, no doubt, be encouraged; and they should
not be trimmed up, as some travelling practitioners have advised. In
1802 there was not a single fruit-tree in Chatham, the next town to
Orleans, on the south; and the old account of Orleans says: "Fruit-trees
cannot be made to grow within a mile of the ocean. Even those which are
placed at a greater distance are injured by the east winds; and, after
violent storms in the spring, a saltish taste is perceptible on their
bark." We noticed that they were often covered with a yellow lichen-like
rust, the _Parmelia parietina_.

The most foreign and picturesque structures on the Cape, to an inlander,
not excepting the salt-works, are the wind-mills,--gray-looking
octagonal towers, with long timbers slanting to the ground in the rear,
and there resting on a cart-wheel, by which their fans are turned round
to face the wind. These appeared also to serve in some measure for props
against its force. A great circular rut was worn around the building by
the wheel. The neighbors who assemble to turn the mill to the wind are
likely to know which way it blows, without a weathercock. They looked
loose and slightly locomotive, like huge wounded birds, trailing a wing
or a leg, and re-minded one of pictures of the Netherlands. Being on
elevated ground, and high in themselves, they serve as landmarks,--for
there are no tall trees, or other objects commonly, which can be seen at
a distance in the horizon; though the outline of the land itself is so
firm and distinct that an insignificant cone, or even precipice of
sand, is visible at a great distance from over the sea. Sailors making
the land commonly steer either by the wind-mills or the meeting-houses.
In the country, we are obliged to steer by the meeting-houses alone. Yet
the meeting-house is a kind of wind-mill, which runs one day in seven,
turned either by the winds of doctrine or public opinion, or more rarely
by the winds of Heaven, where another sort of grist is ground, of which,
if it be not all bran or musty, if it be not _plaster_, we trust to make
bread of life.

There were, here and there, heaps of shells in the fields, where clams
had been opened for bait; for Orleans is famous for its shell-fish,
especially clams, or, as our author says, "to speak more properly,
worms." The shores are more fertile than the dry land. The inhabitants
measure their crops, not only by bushels of corn, but by barrels of
clams. A thousand barrels of clam-bait are counted as equal in value to
six or eight thousand bushels of Indian corn, and once they were
procured without more labor or expense, and the supply was thought to be
inexhaustible. "For," runs the history, "after a portion of the shore
has been dug over, and almost all the clams taken up, at the end of two
years, it is said, they are as plenty there as ever. It is even affirmed
by many persons, that it is as necessary to stir the clam ground
frequently as it is to hoe a field of potatoes; because, if this labor
is omitted, the clams will be crowded too closely together, and will be
prevented from increasing in size." But we were told that the small
clam, _Mya arenaria_, was not so plenty here as formerly. Probably the
clam ground has been stirred too frequently, after all. Nevertheless,
one man, who complained that they fed pigs with them and so made them
scarce, told me that he dug and opened one hundred and twenty-six
dollars' worth in one winter, in Truro.

[Illustration: Nauset Bay]

We crossed a brook, not more than fourteen rods long, between Orleans
and Eastham, called Jeremiah's Gutter. The Atlantic is said sometimes to
meet the Bay here, and isolate the northern part of the Cape. The
streams of the Cape are necessarily formed on a minute scale, since
there is no room for them to run, without tumbling immediately into the
sea; and beside, we found it difficult to run ourselves in that sand,
when there was no want of room. Hence, the least channel where water
runs, or may run, is important, and is dignified with a name. We read
that there is no running water in Chatham, which is the next town. The
barren aspect of the land would hardly be believed if described. It was
such soil, or rather land, as, to judge from appearances, no farmer in
the interior would think of cultivating, or even fencing. Generally, the
ploughed fields of the Cape look white and yellow, like a mixture of
salt and Indian meal. This is called soil. All an inlander's notions of
soil and fertility will be confounded by a visit to these parts, and he
will not be able, for some time afterward, to distinguish soil from
sand. The historian of Chatham says of a part of that town, which has
been gained from the sea: "There is a doubtful appearance of a soil
beginning to be formed. It is styled _doubtful_, because it would not be
observed by every eye, and perhaps not acknowledged by many." We thought
that this would not be a bad description of the greater part of the
Cape. There is a "beach" on the west side of Eastham, which we crossed
the next summer, half a mile wide, and stretching across the township,
containing seventeen hundred acres, on which there is not now a particle
of vegetable mould, though it formerly produced wheat. All sands are
here called "beaches," whether they are waves of water or of air that
dash against them, since they commonly have their origin on the shore.
"The sand in some places," says the historian of Eastham, "lodging
against the beach-grass, has been raised into hills fifty feet high,
where twenty-five years ago no hills existed. In others it has filled up
small valleys, and swamps. Where a strong-rooted bush stood, the
appearance is singular: a mass of earth and sand adheres to it,
resembling a small tower. In several places, rocks, which were formerly
covered with soil, are disclosed, and being lashed by the sand, driven
against them by the wind, look as if they were recently dug from a
quarry."

We were surprised to hear of the great crops of corn which are still
raised in Eastham, notwithstanding the real and apparent barrenness. Our
landlord in Orleans had told us that he raised three or four hundred
bushels of corn annually, and also of the great number of pigs which he
fattened. In Champlain's "Voyages," there is a plate representing the
Indian cornfields hereabouts, with their wigwams in the midst, as they
appeared in 1605, and it was here that the Pilgrims, to quote their own
words, "bought eight or ten hogsheads of corn and beans" of the Nauset
Indians, in 1622, to keep themselves from starving. [1]

"In 1667 the town [of Eastham] voted that every housekeeper should kill
twelve blackbirds or three crows, which did great damage to the corn;
and this vote was repeated for many years." In 1695 an additional order
was passed, namely, that "every unmarried man in the township shall kill
six blackbirds, or three crows, while he remains single; as a penalty
for not doing it, shall not be married until he obey this order." The
blackbirds, however, still molest the corn. I saw them at it the next
summer, and there were many scarecrows, if not scare-blackbirds, in the
fields, which I often mistook for men.

[Illustration: A scarecrow]

From which I concluded that either many men were not married, or many
blackbirds were. Yet they put but three or four kernels in a hill, and
let fewer plants remain than we do. In the account of Eastham, in the
"Historical Collections," printed in 1802, it is said, that "more corn
is produced than the inhabitants consume, and about a thousand bushels
are annually sent to market. The soil being free from stones, a plough
passes through it speedily; and after the corn has come up, a small Cape
horse, somewhat larger than a goat, will, with the assistance of two
boys, easily hoe three or four acres in a day; several farmers are
accustomed to produce five hundred bushels of grain annually, and not
long since one raised eight hundred bushels on sixty acres." Similar
accounts are given to-day; indeed, the recent accounts are in some
instances suspectable repetitions of the old, and I have no doubt that
their statements are as often founded on the exception as the rule, and
that by far the greater number of acres are as barren as they appear to
be. It is sufficiently remarkable that any crops can be raised here, and
it may be owing, as others have suggested, to the amount of moisture in
the atmosphere, the warmth of the sand, and the rareness of frosts. A
miller, who was sharpening his stones, told me that, forty years ago, he
had been to a husking here, where five hundred bushels were husked in
one evening, and the corn was piled six feet high or more, in the midst,
but now, fifteen or eighteen bushels to an acre were an average yield. I
never saw fields of such puny and unpromising looking corn as in this
town. Probably the inhabitants are contented with small crops from a
great surface easily cultivated. It is not always the most fertile land
that is the most profitable, and this sand may repay cultivation, as
well as the fertile bottoms of the West. It is said, moreover, that the
vegetables raised in the sand, without manure, are remarkably sweet, the
pumpkins especially, though when their seed is planted in the interior
they soon degenerate. I can testify that the vegetables here, when they
succeed at all, look remarkably green and healthy, though perhaps it is
partly by contrast with the sand. Yet the inhabitants of the Cape towns,
generally, do not raise their own meal or pork. Their gardens are
commonly little patches, that have been redeemed from the edges of the
marshes and swamps.

All the morning we had heard the sea roar on the eastern shore, which
was several miles distant; for it still felt the effects of the storm in
which the _St. John_ was wrecked,--though a school-boy, whom we overtook,
hardly knew what we meant, his ears were so used to it. He would have
more plainly heard the same sound in a shell. It was a very inspiriting
sound to walk by, filling the whole air, that of the sea dashing against
the land, heard several miles inland. Instead of having a dog to growl
before your door, to have an Atlantic Ocean to growl for a whole Cape!
On the whole, we were glad of the storm, which would show us the ocean
in its angriest mood. Charles Darwin was assured that the roar of the
surf on the coast of Chiloe, after a heavy gale, could be heard at night
a distance of "21 sea miles across a hilly and wooded country." We
conversed with the boy we have mentioned, who might have been eight
years old, making him walk the while under the lee of our umbrella; for
we thought it as important to know what was life on the Cape to a boy as
to a man. We learned from him where the best grapes were to be found in
that neighborhood. He was carrying his dinner in a pail; and, without
any impertinent questions being put by us, it did at length appear of
what it consisted. The homeliest facts are always the most acceptable to
an inquiring mind. At length, before we got to Eastham meeting-house, we
left the road and struck across the country for the eastern shore at
Nauset Lights,--three lights close together, two or three miles distant
from us. They were so many that they might be distinguished from others;
but this seemed a shiftless and costly way of accomplishing that object.
We found ourselves at once on an apparently boundless plain, without a
tree or a fence, or, with one or two exceptions, a house in sight.
Instead of fences, the earth was sometimes thrown up into a slight
ridge. My companion compared it to the rolling prairies of Illinois. In
the storm of wind and rain which raged when we traversed it, it no doubt
appeared more vast and desolate than it really is. As there were no
hills, but only here and there a dry hollow in the midst of the waste,
and the distant horizon was concealed by mist, we did not know whether
it was high or low. A solitary traveller whom we saw perambulating in
the distance loomed like a giant. He appeared to walk slouchingly, as if
held up from above by straps under his shoulders, as much as supported
by the plain below. Men and boys would have appeared alike at a little
distance, there being no object by which to measure them. Indeed, to an
inlander, the Cape landscape is a constant mirage. This kind of country
extended a mile or two each way. These were the "Plains of Nauset," once
covered with wood, where in winter the winds howl and the snow blows
right merrily in the face of the traveller. I was glad to have got out
of the towns, where I am wont to feel unspeakably mean and
disgraced,--to have left behind me for a season the bar-rooms of
Massachusetts, where the full-grown are not weaned from savage and
filthy habits,--still sucking a cigar. My spirits rose in proportion to
the outward dreariness. The towns need to be ventilated. The gods would
be pleased to see some pure flames from their altars. They are not to be
appeased with cigar-smoke.

As we thus skirted the back-side of the towns, for we did not enter any
village, till we got to Provincetown, we read their histories under our
umbrellas, rarely meeting anybody. The old accounts are the richest in
topography, which was what we wanted most; and, indeed, in most things
else, for I find that the readable parts of the modern accounts of these
towns consist, in a great measure, of quotations, acknowledged and
unacknowledged, from the older ones, without any additional information
of equal interest;--town histories, which at length run into a history
of the Church of that place, that being the only story they have to
tell, and conclude by quoting the Latin epitaphs of the old pastors,
having been written in the good old days of Latin and of Greek. They
will go back to the ordination of every minister and tell you faithfully
who made the introductory prayer, and who delivered the sermon; who made
the ordaining prayer, and who gave the charge; who extended the right
hand of fellowship, and who pronounced the benediction; also how many
ecclesiastical councils convened from time to time to inquire into the
orthodoxy of some minister, and the names of all who composed them. As
it will take us an hour to get over this plain, and there is no variety
in the prospect, peculiar as it is, I will read a little in the history
of Eastham the while.

When the committee from Plymouth had purchased the territory of Eastham
of the Indians, "it was demanded, who laid claim to Billingsgate?" which
was understood to be all that part of the Cape north of what they had
purchased. "The answer was, there was not any who owned it. 'Then,' said
the committee, 'that land is ours.' The Indians answered, that it was."
This was a remarkable assertion and admission. The Pilgrims appear to
have regarded themselves as Not Any's representatives. Perhaps this was
the first instance of that quiet way of "speaking for" a place not yet
occupied, or at least not improved as much as it may be, which their
descendants have practised, and are still practising so extensively. Not
Any seems to have been the sole proprietor of all America before the
Yankees. But history says that, when the Pilgrims had held the lands of
Billingsgate many years, at length "appeared an Indian, who styled
himself Lieutenant Anthony," who laid claim to them, and of him they
bought them. Who knows but a Lieutenant Anthony may be knocking at the
door of the White House some day? At any rate, I know that if you hold a
thing unjustly, there will surely be the devil to pay at last.

Thomas Prince, who was several times the governor of the Plymouth
colony, was the leader of the settlement of Eastham. There was recently
standing, on what was once his farm, in this town, a pear-tree which is
said to have been brought from England, and planted there by him, about
two hundred years ago. It was blown down a few months before we were
there. A late account says that it was recently in a vigorous state; the
fruit small, but excellent; and it yielded on an average fifteen
bushels. Some appropriate lines have been addressed to it, by a Mr.
Heman Doane, from which I will quote, partly because they are the only
specimen of Cape Cod verse which I remember to have seen, and partly
because they are not bad.

  "Two hundred years have, on the wings of Time,
    Passed with their joys and woes, since thou, Old Tree!
  Put forth thy first leaves in this foreign clime.
    Transplanted from the soil beyond the sea."

       *       *       *       *       *

[These stars represent the more clerical lines, and also those which
have deceased.]

  "That exiled band long since have passed away,
    And still, Old Tree I thou standest in the place
  Where Prince's hand did plant thee in his day,--
    An undesigned memorial of his race
  And time; of those out honored fathers,
    when They came from Plymouth o'er and settled here;
  Doane, Higgins, Snow, and other worthy men.
    Whose names their sons remember to revere.

       *       *       *       *       *

  "Old Time has thinned thy boughs. Old Pilgrim Tree!
    And bowed thee with the weight of many years;
  Yet 'mid the frosts of age, thy bloom we see,
    And yearly still thy mellow fruit appears."

There are some other lines which I might quote, if they were not tied to
unworthy companions by the rhyme. When one ox will lie down, the yoke
bears hard on him that stands up.

One of the first settlers of Eastham was Deacon John Doane, who died in
1707, aged one hundred and ten. Tradition says that he was rocked in a
cradle several of his last years. That, certainly, was not an Achillean
life. His mother must have let him slip when she dipped him into the
liquor which was to make him invulnerable, and he went in, heels and
all. Some of the stone-bounds to his farm which he set up are standing
to-day, with his initials cut in them.

The ecclesiastical history of this town interested us somewhat. It
appears that "they very early built a small meeting-house, twenty feet
square, with a thatched roof through which they might fire their
muskets,"--of course, at the Devil. "In 1662, the town agreed that a
part of every whale cast on shore be appropriated for the support of the
ministry." No doubt there seemed to be some propriety in thus leaving
the support of the ministers to Providence, whose servants they are, and
who alone rules the storms; for, when few whales were cast up, they
might suspect that their worship was not acceptable. The ministers must
have sat upon the cliffs in every storm, and watched the shore with
anxiety. And, for my part, if I were a minister I would rather trust to
the bowels of the billows, on the back-side of Cape Cod, to cast up a
whale for me, than to the generosity of many a country parish that I
know. You cannot say of a country minister's salary, commonly, that it
is "very like a whale." Nevertheless, the minister who depended on
whales cast up must have had a trying time of it. I would rather have
gone to the Falkland Isles with a harpoon, and done with it. Think of a
w hale having the breath of life beaten out of him by a storm, and
dragging in over the bars and guzzles, for the support of the ministry!
What a consolation it must have been to him! I have heard of a minister,
who had been a fisherman, being settled in Bridgewater for as long a
time as he could tell a cod from a haddock. Generous as it seems, this
condition would empty most country pulpits forthwith, for it is long
since the fishers of men were fishermen. Also, a duty was put on
mackerel here to support a free-school; in other words, the
mackerel-school was taxed in order that the children's school might be
free. "In 1665 the Court passed a law to inflict corporal punishment on
all persons, who resided in the towns of this government, who denied the
Scriptures." Think of a man being whipped on a spring morning till he
was constrained to confess that the Scriptures were true! "It was also
voted by the town that all persons who should stand out of the
meeting-house during the time of divine service should be set in the
stocks." It behooved such a town to see that sitting in the
meeting-house was nothing akin to sitting in the stocks, lest the
penalty of obedience to the law might be greater than that of
disobedience. This was the Eastham famous of late years for its
camp-meetings, held in a grove near by, to which thousands flock from
all parts of the Bay. We conjectured that the reason for the perhaps
unusual, if not unhealthful, development of the religious sentiment here
was the fact that a large portion of the population are women whose
husbands and sons are either abroad on the sea, or else drowned, and
there is nobody but they and the ministers left behind. The old account
says that "hysteric fits are very common in Orleans, Eastham, and the
towns below, particularly on Sunday, in the times of divine service.
When one woman is affected, five or six others generally sympathize with
her; and the congregation is thrown into the utmost confusion. Several
old men suppose, unphilosophically and uncharitably, perhaps, that the
will is partly concerned, and that ridicule and threats would have a
tendency to prevent the evil." How this is now we did not learn. We saw
one singularly masculine woman, however, in a house on this very plain,
who did not look as if she was ever troubled with hysterics, or
sympathized with those that were; or, perchance, life itself was to her
a hysteric fit,--a Nauset woman, of a hardness and coarseness such as no
man ever possesses or suggests. It was enough to see the vertebrae and
sinews of her neck, and her set jaws of iron, which would have bitten a
board-nail in two in their ordinary action,--braced against the world,
talking like a man-of-war's-man in petticoats, or as if shouting to you
through a breaker; who looked as if it made her head ache to live; hard
enough for any enormity. I looked upon her as one who had committed
infanticide; who never had a brother, unless it were some wee thins:
that died in infancy,--for what need of him?--and whose father must have
died before she was born. This woman told us that the camp-meetings were
not held the previous summer for fear of introducing the cholera, and
that they would have been held earlier this summer, but the rye was so
backward that straw would not have been re adv for them; for they He in
straw. There are sometimes one hundred and fifty ministers (!) and five
thousand hearers assembled. The ground, which is called Millennium
Grove, is owned by a company in Boston, and is the most suitable, or
rather unsuitable, for this purpose of any that I saw on the Cape. It is
fenced, and the frames of the tents are at all times to be seen
interspersed among the oaks. They have an oven and a pump, and keep all
their kitchen utensils and tent coverings and furniture in a permanent
building on the spot. They select a time for their meetings when the
moon is full. A man is appointed to clear out the pump a week
beforehand, while the ministers are clearing their throats; but,
probably, the latter do not always deliver as pure a stream as the
former. I saw the heaps of clam-shells left under the tables, where they
had feasted in previous summers, and supposed, of course, that that was
the work of the unconverted, or the backsliders and scoffers. It looked
as if a camp-meeting must be a singular combination of a prayer-meeting
and a picnic.

[Illustration: Millennium Grove camp-meeting grounds]

The first minister settled here was the Rev. Samuel Treat, in 1672, a
gentleman who is said to be "entitled to a distinguished rank among the
evangelists of New England." He converted many Indians, as well as white
men, in his day, and translated the Confession of Faith into the Nauset
language. These were the Indians concerning whom their first teacher,
Richard Bourne, wrote to Gookin, in 1674, that he had been to see one
who was sick, "and there came from him very savory and heavenly
expressions," but, with regard to the mass of them, he says, "the truth
is, that many of them are very loose in their course, to my
heartbreaking sorrow." Mr. Treat is described as a Calvinist of the
strictest kind, not one of those who, by giving up or explaining away,
become like a porcupine disarmed of its quills, but a consistent
Calvinist, who can dart his quills to a distance and courageously defend
himself. There exists a volume of his sermons in manuscript, "which,"
says a commentator, "appear to have been designed for publication." I
quote the following sentences at second hand, from a Discourse on Luke
xvi. 23, addressed to sinners:--

"Thou must erelong go to the bottomless pit. Hell hath enlarged herself,
and is ready to receive thee. There is room enough for thy
entertainment....

"Consider, thou art going to a place prepared by God on purpose to exalt
his justice in,--a place made for no other employment but torments. Hell
is God's house of correction; and, remember, God doth all things like
himself. When God would show his justice, and what is the weight of his
wrath, he makes a hell where it shall, indeed, appear to purpose.... Woe
to thy soul when thou shalt be set up as a butt for the arrows of the
Almighty....

"Consider, God himself shall be the principal agent in thy misery,--his
breath is the bellows which blows up the flame of hell forever;--and if
he punish thee, if he meet thee in his fury, he will not meet thee as a
man; he will give thee an omnipotent blow."

"Some think sinning ends with this life; but it is a mistake. The
creature is held under an everlasting law; the damned increase in sin in
hell. Possibly, the mention of this may please thee. But, remember,
there shall be no pleasant sins there; no eating, drinking, singing,
dancing, wanton dalliance, and drinking stolen waters, but damned sins,
bitter, hellish sins; sins exasperated by torments, cursing God, spite,
rage, and blasphemy.--The guilt of all thy sins shall be laid upon thy
soul, and be made so many heaps of fuel....

"Sinner, I beseech thee, realize the truth of these things. Do not go
about to dream that this is derogatory to God's mercy, and nothing but a
vain fable to scare children out of their wits withal. God can be
merciful, though he make thee miserable. He shall have monuments enough
of that precious attribute, shining like stars in the place of glory,
and singing eternal hallelujahs to the praise of Him that redeemed them,
though, to exalt the power of his justice, he damn sinners heaps upon
heaps."

"But," continues the same writer, "with the advantage of proclaiming the
doctrine of terror, which is naturally productive of a sublime and
impressive style of eloquence ('Triumphat ventoso gloriæ curru orator,
qui pectus angit, irritat, et implet terroribus.' Vid. Burnet, De Stat.
Mort., p. 309), he could not attain the character of a popular preacher.
His voice was so loud that it could be heard at a great distance from
the meeting-house, even amidst the shrieks of hysterical women, and the
winds that howled over the plains of Nauset; but there was no more music
in it than in the discordant sounds with which it was mingled."

"The effect of such preaching," it is said, "was that his hearers were
several times, in the course of his ministry, awakened and alarmed; and
on one occasion a comparatively innocent young man was frightened nearly
out of his wits, and Mr. Treat had to exert himself to make hell seem
somewhat cooler to him"; yet we are assured that "Treat's manners were
cheerful, his conversation pleasant, and sometimes facetious, but always
decent. He was fond of a stroke of humor, and a practical joke, and
manifested his relish for them by long and loud fits of laughter."

This was the man of whom a well-known anecdote is told, which doubtless
many of my readers have heard, but which, nevertheless, I will venture
to quote:--

"After his marriage with the daughter of Mr. Willard (pastor of the
South Church in Boston), he was sometimes invited by that gentleman to
preach in his pulpit. Mr. Willard possessed a graceful delivery, a
masculine and harmonious voice; and, though he did not gain much
reputation by his 'Body of Divinity,' which is frequently sneered at,
particularly by those who have read it, yet in his sermons are strength
of thought and energy of language. The natural consequence was that he
was generally admired. Mr. Treat having preached one of his best
discourses to the congregation of his father-in-law, in his usual
unhappy manner, excited universal disgust; and several nice judges
waited on Mr. Willard, and begged that Mr. Treat, who was a worthy,
pious man, it was true, but a wretched preacher, might never be invited
into his pulpit again. To this request Mr. Willard made no reply; but he
desired his son-in-law to lend him the discourse; which being left with
him, he delivered it without alteration to his people a few weeks after.
They ran to Mr. Willard and requested a copy for the press. 'See the
difference,' they cried, 'between yourself and your son-in-law; you have
preached a sermon on the same text as Mr. Treat's, but whilst his was
contemptible, yours is excellent.' As is observed in a note, 'Mr.
Willard, after producing the sermon in the handwriting of Mr. Treat,
might have addressed these sage critics in the words of Phaedrus,

 "'En hie declarat, quales sitis judices.'" [2]

Mr. Treat died of a stroke of the palsy, just after the memorable storm
known as the Great Snow, which left the ground around his house entirely
bare, but heaped up the snow in the road to an uncommon height. Through
this an arched way was dug, by which the Indians bore his bod to the
grave.

The reader will imagine us, all the while, steadily traversing that
extensive plain in a direction a little north of east toward Nauset
Beach, and reading under our umbrellas as we sailed, while it blowed
hard with mingled mist and rain, as if we were approaching a fit
anniversary of Mr. Treat's funeral. We fancied that it was such a moor
as that on which somebody perished in the snow, as is related in the
"Lights and Shadows of Scottish Life."

The next minister settled here was the "Rev. Samuel Osborn, who was born
in Ireland, and educated at the University of Dublin." He is said to
have been "A man of wisdom and virtue," and taught his people the use of
peat, and the art of drying and preparing it, which as they had scarcely
any other fuel, was a great blessing to them. He also introduced
improvements in agriculture. But, notwithstanding his many services, as
he embraced the religion of Arminius, some of his flock became
dissatisfied. At length, an ecclesiastical council, consisting of ten
ministers, with their churches, sat upon him, and they, naturally
enough, spoiled his usefulness. The council convened at the desire of
two divine philosophers,--Joseph Doane and Nathaniel Freeman.

In their report they say, "It appears to the council that the Rev. Mr.
Osborn hath, in his preaching to this people, said, that what Christ did
and suffered doth nothing abate or diminish our obligation to obey the
law of God, and that Christ's suffering and obedience were for himself;
both parts of which, we think, contain dangerous error."

"Also: 'It hath been said, and doth appear to this council, that the
Rev. Mr. Osborn, both in public and in private, asserted that there are
no promises in the Bible but what are conditional, which we think, also,
to be an error, and do say that there are promises which are absolute
and without any condition,--such as the promise of a new heart, and that
he will write his law in our hearts.'"

"Also, they say, 'it hath been alleged, and doth appear to us, that Mr.
Osborn hath declared, that _obedience_ is a considerable _cause_ of a
person's justification, which, we think, contains very dangerous
error.'"

And many the like distinctions they made, such as some of my readers,
probably, are more familiar with than I am. So, far in the East, among
the Yezidis, or Worshippers of the Devil, so-called, the Chaldaeans, and
others, according to the testimony of travellers, you may still hear
these remarkable disputations on doctrinal points going on. Osborn was,
accordingly, dismissed, and he removed to Boston, where he kept school
for many years. But he was fully justified, methinks, by his works in
the peat-meadow; one proof of which is, that he lived to be between
ninety and one hundred years old.

The next minister was the Rev. Benjamin Webb, of whom, though a
neighboring clergy-man pronounced him "the best man and the best
minister whom he ever knew," yet the historian says that,

"As he spent his days in the uniform discharge of his duty (it reminds
one of a country muster) and there were no shades to give relief to his
character, not much can be said of him. (Pity the Devil did not plant a
few shade-trees along his avenues.) His heart was as pure as the
new-fallen snow, which completely covers every dark spot in a field; his
mind was as serene as the sky in a mild evening in June, when the moon
shines without a cloud. Name any virtue, and that virtue he practised;
name any vice, and that vice he shunned. But if peculiar qualities
marked his character, they were his humility, his gentleness, and his
love of God. The people had long been taught by a son of thunder (Mr.
Treat): in him they were instructed by a son of consolation, who sweetly
allured them to virtue by soft persuasion, and by exhibiting the mercy
of the Supreme Being; for his thoughts were so much in heaven that they
seldom descended to the dismal regions below; and though of the same
religious sentiments as Mr. Treat, yet his attention was turned to those
glad tidings of great joy which a Saviour came to publish."

We were interested to hear that such a man had trodden the plains of
Nauset.

Turning over further in our book, our eyes fell on the name of the Rev.
Jonathan Bascom, of Orleans; "Senex emunctæ naris, doctus, et auctor
elegantium verborum, facetus, et dulcis festique sermonis." And, again,
on that of the Rev. Nathan Stone, of Dennis: "Vir humilis, mitis,
blandus, advenarum hospes; (there was need of him there;) suis commodis
in terrâ non studens, reconditis thesauris in coelo." An easy virtue
that, there, for methinks no inhabitant of Dennis could be very studious
about his earthly commodity, but must regard the bulk of his treasures
as in heaven. But probably the most just and pertinent character of all
is that which appears to be given to the Rev. Ephraim Briggs, of
Chatham, in the language of the later Romans, "_Seip, sepoese, sepoemese,
wechekum_,"--which not being interpreted, we know not what it means,
though we have no doubt it occurs somewhere in the Scriptures, probably
in the Apostle Eliot's Epistle to the Nipmucks.

Let no one think that I do not love the old ministers. They were,
probably, the best men of their generation, and they deserve that their
biographies should fill the pages of the town histories. If I could but
hear the "glad tidings" of which they tell, and which, perchance, they
heard, I might write in a worthier strain than this.

There was no better way to make the reader realize how wide and peculiar
that plain was, and how long it took to traverse it, than by inserting
these extracts in the midst of my narrative.

[1] They touched after this at a place called Mattachiest, where they
got more corn; but their shallop being cast away in a storm, the
Governor was obliged to return to Plymouth on foot, fifty miles through
the woods. According to Mourt's Relation, "he came safely home, though
weary and _surbated_," that is, foot-sore. (Ital. _sobattere_, Lat.
_sub_ or _solea battere_, to bruise the soles of the feet; v. Dic. Not
"from _acerbatus_, embittered or aggrieved," as one commentator on this
passage supposes.) This word is of very rare occurrence, being applied
only to governors and persons of like description, who are in that
predicament; though such generally have considerable mileage allowed
them, and might save their soles if they cared.

[2] Lib.v.Fab. 5.




IV

THE BEACH

At length we reached the seemingly retreating boundary of the plain, and
entered what had appeared at a distance an upland marsh, but proved to
be dry sand covered with Beach-grass, the Bearberry, Bayberry,
Shrub-oaks, and Beach-plum, slightly ascending as we approached the
shore; then, crossing over a belt of sand on which nothing grew, though
the roar of the sea sounded scarcely louder than before, and we were
prepared to go half a mile farther, we suddenly stood on the edge of a
bluff overlooking the Atlantic. Far below us was the beach, from half a
dozen to a dozen rods in width, with a long line of breakers rushing to
the strand. The sea was exceedingly dark and stormy, the sky completely
overcast, the clouds still dropping rain, and the wind seemed to blow
not so much as the exciting cause, as from sympathy with the already
agitated ocean. The waves broke on the bars at some distance from the
shore, and curving green or yellow as if over so many unseen dams, ten
or twelve feet high, like a thousand waterfalls, rolled in foam to the
sand. There was nothing but that savage ocean between us and Europe.

Having got down the bank, and as close to the water as we could, where
the sand was the hardest, leaving the Nauset Lights behind us, we began
to walk leisurely up the beach, in a northwest direction, towards
Provincetown, which was about twenty-five miles distant, still sailing
under our umbrellas with a strong aft wind, admiring in silence, as we
walked, the great force of the ocean stream,--

   [Greek: potamoio mega sthenos Hôeanoio.]

The white breakers were rushing to the shore; the foam ran up the sand,
and then ran back as far as we could see (and we imagined how much
farther along the Atlantic coast, before and behind us), as regularly,
to compare great things with small, as the master of a choir beats time
with his white wand; and ever and anon a higher wave caused us hastily
to deviate from our path, and we looked back on our tracks filled with
water and foam. The breakers looked like droves of a thousand wild
horses of Neptune, rushing to the shore, with their white manes
streaming far behind; and when at length the sun shone for a moment,
their manes were rainbow-tinted. Also, the long kelp-weed was tossed up
from time to time, like the tails of sea-cows sporting in the brine.

[Illustration: A Cape Cod citizen]

There was not a sail in sight, and we saw none that day,--for they had
all sought harbors in the late storm, and had not been able to get out
again; and the only human beings whom we saw on the beach for several
days were one or two wreckers looking for drift-wood, and fragments of
wrecked vessels. After an easterly storm in the spring, this beach is
sometimes strewn with eastern wood from one end to the other, which, as
it belongs to him who saves it, and the Cape is nearly destitute of
wood, is a Godsend to the inhabitants. We soon met one of these
wreckers,--a regular Cape Cod man, with whom we parleyed, with a
bleached and weather-beaten face, within whose wrinkles I distinguished
no particular feature. It was like an old sail endowed with life,--a
hanging cliff of weather-beaten flesh,--like one of the clay boulders
which occurred in that sand-bank. He had on a hat which had seen salt
water, and a coat of many pieces and colors, though it was mainly the
color of the beach, as if it had been sanded. His variegated back--for
his coat had many patches, even between the shoulders--was a rich study
to us, when we had passed him and looked round. It might have been
dishonorable for him to have so many scars behind, it is true, if he had
not had many more and more serious ones in front. He looked as if he
sometimes saw a doughnut, but never descended to comfort; too grave to
laugh, too tough to cry; as indifferent as a clam,--like a sea-clam with
hat on and legs, that was out walking the strand. He may have been one
of the Pilgrims,--Peregrine White, at least,--who has kept on the
back-side of the Cape, and let the centuries go by. He was looking for
wrecks, old logs, water-logged and covered with barnacles, or bits of
boards and joists, even chips, which he drew out of the reach of the
tide, and stacked up to dry. When the log was too large to carry far, he
cut it up where the last wave had left it, or rolling it a few feet
appropriated it by sticking two sticks into the ground crosswise above
it. Some rotten trunk, which in Maine cumbers the ground, and is,
perchance, thrown into the water on purpose, is here thus carefully
picked up, split and dried, and husbanded. Before winter the wrecker
painfully carries these things up the bank on his shoulders by a long
diagonal slanting path made with a hoe in the sand, if there is no
hollow at hand. You may see his hooked pike-staff always lying on the
bank ready for use. He is the true monarch of the beach, whose "right
there is none to dispute," and he is as much identified with it as a
beach-bird.

Crantz, in his account of Greenland, quotes Dalagen's relation of the
ways and usages of the Greenlanders, and says, "Whoever finds driftwood,
or the spoils of a shipwreck on the strand, enjoys it as his own,
though, he does not live there. But he must haul it ashore and lay a
stone upon it, as a token that some one has taken possession of it, and
this stone is the deed of security, for no other Greenlander will offer
to meddle with it afterwards." Such is the instinctive law of nations.
We have also this account of drift-wood in Crantz: "As he (the Founder of
Nature) has denied this frigid rocky region the growth of trees, he has
bid the streams of the Ocean to convey to its shores a great deal of
wood, which accordingly comes floating thither, part without ice, but
the most part along with it, and lodges itself between the islands. Were
it not for this, we Europeans should have no wood to burn there, and the
poor Greenlanders (who, it is true, do not use wood, but train, for
burning) would, however, have no wood to roof their houses, to erect
their tents, as also to build their boats, and to shaft their arrows
(yet there grew some small but crooked alders, &c.), by which they must
procure their maintenance, clothing and train for warmth, light, and
cooking. Among this wood are great trees torn up by the roots, which by
driving up and down for many years and rubbing on the ice, are quite
bare of branches and bark, and corroded with great wood-worms. A small
part of this drift-wood are willows, alder and birch trees, which come
out of the bays in the south of (_i.e._ Greenland); also large trunks of
aspen-trees, which must come from a greater distance; but the greatest
part is pine and fir. We find also a good deal of a sort of wood finely
veined, with few branches; this I fancy is larch-wood, which likes to
decorate the sides of lofty, stony mountains. There is also a solid,
reddish wood, of a more agreeable fragrance than the common fir, with
visible cross-veins; which I take to be the same species as the
beautiful silver-firs, or _zirbel_, that have the smell of cedar, and grow
on the high Grison hills, and the Switzers wainscot their rooms with
them." The wrecker directed us to a slight depression, called Snow's
Hollow, by which we ascended the bank,--for elsewhere, if not difficult,
it was inconvenient to climb it on ac-count of the sliding sand, which
filled our shoes.

This sand-bank--the backbone of the Cape--rose directly from the beach
to the height of a hundred feet or more above the ocean. It was with
singular emotions that we first stood upon it and discovered what a
place we had chosen to walk on. On our right, beneath us, was the beach
of smooth and gently sloping sand, a dozen rods in width; next, the
endless series of white breakers; further still, the light green water
over the bar, which runs the whole length of the forearm of the Cape,
and beyond this stretched the unwearied and illimitable ocean. On our
left, extending back from the very edge of the bank, was a perfect
desert of shining sand, from thirty to eighty rods in width, skirted in
the distance by small sand-hills fifteen or twenty feet high; between
which, however, in some places, the sand penetrated as much farther.
Next commenced the region of vegetation--a succession of small hills and
valleys covered with shrubbery, now glowing with the brightest
imaginable autumnal tints; and beyond this were seen, here and there,
the waters of the bay. Here, in Wellfleet, this pure sand plateau, known
to sailors as the Table Lands of Eastham, on account of its appearance,
as seen from the ocean, and because it once made a part of that
town,--full fifty rods in width, and in many places much more, and
sometimes full one hundred and fifty feet above the ocean,--stretched
away northward from the southern boundary of the town, without a
particle of vegetation,--as level almost as a table,--for two and a half
or three miles, or as far as the eye could reach; slightly rising
towards the ocean, then stooping to the beach, by as steep a slope as
sand could lie on, and as regular as a military engineer could desire.
It was like the escarped rampart of a stupendous fortress, whose glacis
was the beach, and whose champaign the ocean.--From its surface we
overlooked the greater part of the Cape. In short, we were traversing a
desert, with the view of an autumnal landscape of extraordinary
brilliancy, a sort of Promised Land, on the one hand, and the ocean on
the other. Yet, though the prospect was so extensive, and the country
for the most part destitute of trees, a house was rarely visible,--we
never saw one from the beach,--and the solitude was that of the ocean
and the desert combined. A thousand men could not have seriously
interrupted it, but would have been lost in the vastness of the scenery
as their footsteps in the sand.

The whole coast is so free from rocks, that we saw but one or two for
more than twenty miles. The sand was soft like the beach, and trying to
the eyes when the sun shone. A few piles of drift-wood, which some
wreckers had painfully brought up the bank and stacked up there to dry,
being the only objects in the desert, looked indefinitely large and
distant, even like wigwams, though, when we stood near them, they proved
to be insignificant little "jags" of wood.

For sixteen miles, commencing at the Nauset Lights, the bank held its
height, though farther north it was not so level as here, but
interrupted by slight hollows, and the patches of Beach-grass and
Bayberry frequently crept into the sand to its edge. There are some
pages entitled "A description of the Eastern Coast of the County of
Barnstable," printed in 1802, pointing out the spots on which the
Trustees of the Humane Society have erected huts called Charity or
Humane Houses, "and other places where shipwrecked seamen may look for
shelter." Two thousand copies of this were dispersed, that every vessel
which frequented this coast might be provided with one. I have read this
Shipwrecked Seaman's Manual with a melancholy kind of interest,--for the
sound of the surf, or, you might say, the moaning of the sea, is heard
all through it, as if its author were the sole survivor of a shipwreck
himself. Of this part of the coast he says: "This highland approaches
the ocean with steep and lofty banks, which it is extremely difficult to
climb, especially in a storm. In violent tempests, during very high
tides, the sea breaks against the foot of them, rendering it then unsafe
to walk on the strand which lies between them and the ocean. Should the
seaman succeed in his attempt to ascend them, he must forbear to
penetrate into the country, as houses are generally so remote that they
would escape his research during the night; he must pass on to the
valleys by which the banks are intersected. These valleys, which the
inhabitants call Hollows, run at right angles with the shore, and in the
middle or lowest part of them a road leads from the dwelling-houses to
the sea." By the _word_ road must not always be understood a visible
cart-track.

There were these two roads for us,--an upper and a lower one,--the bank
and the beach; both stretching twenty-eight miles northwest, from Nauset
Harbor to Race Point, without a single opening into the beach, and with
hardly a serious interruption of the desert. If you were to ford the
narrow and shallow inlet at Nauset Harbor, where there is not more than
eight feet of water on the bar at full sea, you might walk ten or twelve
miles farther, which would make a beach forty miles long,--and the bank
and beach, on the east side of Nantucket, are but a continuation of
these. I was comparatively satisfied. There I had got the Cape under me,
as much as if I were riding it bare-backed. It was not as on the map, or
seen from the stagecoach; but there I found it all out of doors, huge
and real, Cape Cod! as it cannot be represented on a map, color it as
you will; the thing itself, than which there is nothing more like it, no
truer picture or account; which you cannot go farther and see. I cannot
remember what I thought before that it was. They commonly celebrate
those beaches only which have a hotel on them, not those which have a
Humane house alone. But I wished to see that seashore where man's works
are wrecks; to put up at the true Atlantic House, where the ocean is
land-lord as well as sea-lord, and comes ashore without a wharf for the
landing; where the crumbling land is the only invalid, or at best is but
dry land, and that is all you can say of it.

We walked on quite at our leisure, now on the beach, now on the
bank,--sitting from time to time on some damp log, maple or yellow
birch, which had long followed the seas, but had now at last settled on
land; or under the lee of a sandhill, on the bank, that we might gaze
steadily on the ocean. The bank was so steep that, where there was no
danger of its caving, we sat on its edge, as on a bench. It was
difficult for us landsmen to look out over the ocean without imagining
land in the horizon; yet the clouds appeared to hang low over it, and
rest on the water as they never do on the land, perhaps on account of
the great distance to which we saw. The sand was not without advantage,
for, though it was "heavy" walking in it, it was soft to the feet; and,
notwithstanding that it had been raining nearly two days, when it held
up for half an hour, the sides of the sand-hills, which were porous and
sliding, afforded a dry seat. All the aspects of this desert are
beautiful, whether you behold it in fair weather or foul, or when the
sun is just breaking out after a storm, and shining on its moist surface
in the distance, it is so white, and pure, and level, and each slight
inequality and track is so distinctly revealed; and when your eyes slide
off this, they fall on the ocean. In summer the mackerel gulls--which
here have their nests among the neighboring sand-hills--pursue the
traveller anxiously, now and then diving close to his head with a
squeak, and he may see them, like swallows, chase some crow which has
been feeding on the beach, almost across the Cape.

Though for some time I have not spoken of the roaring of the breakers,
and the ceaseless flux and reflux of the waves, yet they did not for a
moment cease to dash and roar, with such a tumult that if you had been
there, you could scarcely have heard my voice the while; and they are
dashing and roaring this very moment, though it may be with less din and
violence, for there the sea never rests. We were wholly absorbed by this
spectacle and tumult, and like Chryses, though in a different mood from
him, we walked silent along the shore of the resounding sea,

    [Greek: Bê d akeôy para thina polnphloisboio thalassêst.] [1]

I put in a little Greek now and then, partly because it sounds so much
like the ocean,--though I doubt if Homer's _Mediterranean_ Sea ever
sounded so loud as this.

The attention of those who frequent the camp-meetings at Eastham is said
to be divided between the preaching of the Methodists and the preaching
of the billows on the back-side of the Cape, for they all stream over
here in the course of their stay. I trust that in this case the loudest
voice carries it. With what effect may we suppose the ocean to say, "My
hearers!" to the multitude on the bank! On that side some John N.
Maffit; on this, the Reverend Poluphloisboios Thalassa.

There was but little weed cast up here, and that kelp chiefly, there
being scarcely a rock for rockweed to adhere to. Who has not had a
vision from some vessel's deck, when he had still his land-legs on, of
this great brown apron, drifting half upright, and quite submerged
through the green water, clasping a stone or a deep-sea mussel in its
unearthly fingers? I have seen it carrying a stone half as large as my
head. We sometimes watched a mass of this cable-like weed, as it was
tossed up on the crest of a breaker, waiting with interest to see it
come in, as if there were some treasure buoyed up by it; but we were
always surprised and disappointed at the insignificance of the mass
which had attracted us. As we looked out over the water, the smallest
objects floating on it appeared indefinitely large, we were so impressed
by the vastness of the ocean, and each one bore so large a proportion to
the whole ocean, which we saw. We were so often disappointed in the size
of such things as came ashore, the ridiculous bits of wood or weed, with
which the ocean labored, that we began to doubt whether the Atlantic
itself would bear a still closer inspection, and wold not turn out to be
a but small pond, if it should come ashore to us. This kelp, oar-weed,
tangle, devils-apron, sole-leather, or ribbon-weed,--as various species
are called,--appeared to us a singularly marine and fabulous product, a
lit invention for Neptune to adorn his car with, or a freak of Proteus.
All that is told of the sea has a fabulous sound to an inhabitant of the
land, and all its products have a certain fabulous quality, as if they
belonged to another planet, from sea-weed to a sailor's yarn, or a
fish-story. In this element the animal and vegetable kingdoms meet and
are strangely mingled. One species of kelp, according to Bory St.
Vincent, has a stem fifteen hundred feet long, and hence is the longest
vegetable known, and a brig's crew spent two days to no purpose
collecting the trunks of another kind cast ashore on the Falkland
Islands, mistaking it for drift-wood. (See Harvey on _Algæ_) This species
looked almost edible; at least, I thought that if I were starving I
would try it. One sailor told me that the cows ate it. It cut like
cheese: for I took the earliest opportunity to sit down and deliberately
whittle up a fathom or two of it, that I might become more intimately
acquainted with it, see how it cut, and if it were hollow all the way
through. The blade looked like a broad belt, whose edges had been
quilled, or as if stretched by hammering, and it was also twisted
spirally. The extremity was generally worn and ragged from the lashing
of the waves. A piece of the stem which I carried home shrunk to one
quarter of its size a week afterward, and was completely covered with
crystals of salt like frost. The reader will excuse my
greenness,--though it is not sea-greenness, like his, perchance,--for I
live by a river-shore, where this weed does not wash up. When we
consider in what meadows it grew. and how it was raked, and in what kind
of hay weather got in or out, we may well be curious about it. One who
is weatherwise has given the following account of the matter.

  "When descends on the Atlantic
    The gigantic
   Storm-wind of the equinox,
  Landward in his wrath he scourges
    The toiling surges,
  Laden with sea-weed from the rocks.

  "From Bermuda's reefs, from edges
    Of sunken ledges,
   On some far-off bright Azore;
  From Bahama and the dashing,
    Silver-flashing
   Surges of San Salvador;

  "From the trembling surf that buries
    The Orkneyan Skerries.
   Answering the hoarse Hebrides;
  And from wrecks and ships and drifting
    Spars, uplifting
   On the desolate rainy seas;

  "Ever drifting, drifting, drifting
     On the shifting
   Currents of the restless main."

But he was not thinking of this shore, when he added:--

  "Till, in sheltered coves and reaches
    Of sandy beaches,
   All have found repose again."

_These_ weeds were the symbols of those grotesque and fabulous thoughts
which have not yet got into the sheltered coves of literature.

  "Ever drifting, drifting, drifting
    On the shifting
   Currents of the restless heart,"
   _And not yet_ "in books recorded
    They, like hoarded
   Household words, no more depart."

The beach was also strewn with beautiful sea-jellies, which the wreckers
called Sun-squall, one of the lowest forms of animal life, some white,
some wine-colored, and a foot in diameter. I at first thought that they
were a tender part of some marine monster, which the storm or some other
foe had mangled. What right has the sea to bear in its bosom such tender
things as sea-jellies and mosses, when it has such a boisterous shore
that the stoutest fabrics are wrecked against it? Strange that it should
undertake to dandle such delicate children in its arm. I did not at
first recognize these for the same which I had formerly seen in myriads
in Boston Harbor, rising, with a waving motion, to the surface, as if to
meet the sun, and discoloring the waters far and wide, so that I seemed
to be sailing through a mere sunfish soup. They say that when you
endeavor to take one up, it will spill out the other side of your hand
like quicksilver. Before the land rose out of the ocean, and became _dry_
land, chaos reigned; and between high and low water mark, where she is
partially disrobed and rising, a sort of chaos reigns still, which only
anomalous creatures can inhabit. Mackerel-gulls were all the while
flying over our heads and amid the breakers, sometimes two white ones
pursuing a black one; quite at home in the storm, though they are as
delicate organizations as sea-jellies and mosses; and we saw that they
were adapted to their circumstances rather by their spirits than their
bodies. Theirs must be an essentially wilder, that is, less human,
nature than that of larks and robins. Their note was like the sound of
some vibrating metal, and harmonized well with the scenery and the roar
of the surf, as if one had rudely touched the strings of the lyre, which
ever lies on the shore; a ragged shred of ocean music tossed aloft on
the spray. But if I were required to name a sound the remembrance of
which most perfectly revives the impression which the beach has made, it
would be the dreary peep of the piping plover (_Charadrius melodus_) which
haunts there. Their voices, too, are heard as a fugacious part in the
dirge which is ever played along the shore for those mariners who have
been lost in the deep since first it was created. But through all this
dreariness we seemed to have a pure and unqualified strain of eternal
melody, for always the same strain which is a dirge to one household is
a morning song of rejoicing to another.

A remarkable method of catching gulls, derived from the Indians, was
practised in Wellfleet in 1794. "The Gull House," it is said, "is built
with crotchets, fixed in the ground on the beach," poles being stretched
across for the top, and the sides made close with stakes and seaweed.
"The poles on the top are covered with lean whale. The man being placed
within, is not discovered by the fowls, and while they are contending
for and eating the flesh, he draws them in, one by one, between the
poles, until he has collected forty or fifty." Hence, perchance, a man
is said to be _gulled_, when he is _taken in_. We read that one "sort of
gulls is called by the Dutch _mallemucke, i.e._ the foolish fly, because
they fall upon a whale as eagerly as a fly, and, indeed, all gulls are
foolishly bold and easy to be shot. The Norwegians call this bird
_havhest_, sea-horse (and the English translator says, it is probably what
we call boobies). If they have eaten too much, they throw it up, and eat
it again till they are tired. It is this habit in the gulls of parting
with their property [disgorging the contents of their stomachs to the
skuas], which has given rise to the terms gull, guller, and gulling,
among men." We also read that they used to kill small birds which
roosted on the beach at night, by making a fire with hog's lard in a
frying-pan. The Indians probably used pine torches; the birds flocked to
the light, and were knocked down with a stick. We noticed holes dug near
the edge of the bank, where gunners conceal themselves to shoot the
large gulls which coast up and down a-fishing, for these are considered
good to eat.

We found some large clams of the species _Mactra solidissima_, which the
storm had torn up from the bottom, and cast ashore. I selected one of
the largest, about six inches in length, and carried it along, thinking
to try an experiment on it. We soon after met a wrecker, with a grapple
and a rope, who said that he was looking for tow cloth, which had made
part of the cargo of the ship _Franklin_, which was wrecked here in the
spring, at which time nine or ten lives were lost. The reader may
remember this wreck, from the circumstance that a letter was found in
the captain's valise, which washed ashore, directing him to wreck the
vessel before he got to America, and from the trial which took place in
consequence. The wrecker said that tow cloth was still cast up in such
storms as this. He also told us that the clam which I had was the
sea-clam, or hen, and was good to eat. We took our nooning under a
sand-hill, covered with beach-grass, in a dreary little hollow, on the
top of the bank, while it alternately rained and shined. There, having
reduced some damp drift-wood, which I had picked up on the shore, to
shavings with my knife, I kindled a fire with a match and some paper and
cooked my clam on the embers for my dinner; for breakfast was commonly
the only meal which I took in a house on this excursion. When the clam
was done, one valve held the meat and the other the liquor. Though it
was very tough, I found it sweet and savory, and ate _the whole_ with a
relish. Indeed, with the addition of a cracker or two, it would have
been a bountiful dinner. I noticed that the shells were such as I had
seen in the sugar-kit at home. Tied to a stick, they formerly made the
Indian's hoe hereabouts.

At length, by mid-afternoon, after we had had two or three rainbows over
the sea, the showers ceased, and the heavens gradually cleared up,
though the wind still blowed as hard and the breakers ran as high as
before. Keeping on, we soon after came to a Charity-house, which we
looked into to see how the shipwrecked mariner might fare. Far away in
some desolate hollow by the sea-side, just within the bank, stands a
lonely building on piles driven into the sand, with a slight nail put
through the staple, which a freezing man can bend, with some straw,
perchance, on the floor on which he may lie, or which he may burn in the
fireplace to keep him alive. Perhaps this hut has never been required to
shelter a ship-wrecked man, and the benevolent person who promised to
inspect it annually, to see that the straw and matches are here, and
that the boards will keep off the wind, has grown remiss and thinks that
storms and shipwrecks are over; and this very night a perishing crew may
pry open its door with their numbed fingers and leave half their number
dead here by morning. When I thought what must be the condition of the
families which alone would ever occupy or had occupied them, what must
have been the tragedy of the winter evenings spent by human beings
around their hearths, these houses, though they were meant for human
dwellings, did not look cheerful to me. They appeared but a stage to the
grave. The gulls flew around and screamed over them; the roar of the
ocean in storms, and the lapse of its waves in calms, alone resounds
through them, all dark and empty within, year in, year out, except,
perchance, on one memorable night. Houses of entertainment for
shipwrecked men! What kind of sailors' homes were they?

[Illustration: Wreckage under the sand-bluff]

"Each hut," says the author of the "Description of the Eastern Coast of
the County of Barnstable," "stands on piles, is eight feet long, eight
feet wide, and seven feet high; a sliding door is on the south, a
sliding shutter on the west, and a pole, rising fifteen feet above the
top of the building, on the east. Within it is supplied either with
straw or hay, and is further accommodated with a bench." They have
varied little from this model now. There are similar huts at the Isle of
Sable and Anticosti, on the north, and how far south along the coast I
know not.  It is pathetic to read the minute and faithful directions
which he gives to seamen who may be wrecked on this coast, to guide them
to the nearest Charity-house, or other shelter, for, as is said of
Eastham, though there are a few houses within a mile of the shore, yet
"in a snow-storm, which rages here with excessive fury, it would be
almost impossible to discover them either by night or by day." You hear
their imaginary guide thus marshalling, cheering, directing the
dripping, shivering, freezing troop along; "at the entrance of this
valley the sand has gathered, so that at present a little climbing is
necessary. Passing over several fences and taking heed not to enter the
wood on the right hand, at the distance of three-quarters of a mile a
house is to be found. This house stands on the south side of the road,
and not far from it on the south is Pamet River, which runs from east to
west through body of salt marsh." To him cast ashore in Eastham, he
says, "The meeting-house is without a steeple, but it may be
distinguished from the dwelling-houses near it by its situation, which
is between two small groves of locusts, one on the south and one on the
north,--that on the south being three times as long as the other. About
a mile and a quarter from the hut, west by north, appear the top and
arms of a windmill." And so on for many pages.

We did not learn whether these houses had been the means of saving any
lives, though this writer says, of one erected at the head of Stout's
Creek in Truro, that "it was built in an improper manner, having a
chimney in it; and was placed on a spot where no beach-grass grew. The
strong winds blew the sand from its foundation and the weight of the
chimney brought it to the ground; so that in January of the present year
[1802] it was entirely demolished. This event took place about six weeks
before the _Brutus_ was cast away. If it had remained, it is probable that
the whole of the unfortunate crew of that ship would have been saved, as
they gained the shore a few rods only from the spot where the hut had
stood."

This "Charity-house," as the wrecker called it, this "Humane-house," as
some call it, that is, the one to which we first came, had neither
window nor sliding shutter, nor clapboards, nor paint. As we have said,
there was a rusty nail put through the staple. However, as we wished to
get an idea of a Humane house, and we hoped that we should never have a
better opportunity, we put our eyes, by turns, to a knot-hole in the
door, and after long looking, without seeing, into the dark,--not
knowing how many shipwrecked men's bones we might see at last, looking
with the eye of faith, knowing that, though to him that knocketh it may
not always be opened, yet to him that looketh long enough through a
knot-hole the inside shall be visible,--for we had had some practice at
looking inward,--by steadily keeping our other ball covered from the
light meanwhile, putting the outward world behind us, ocean and land,
and the beach,--till the pupil became enlarged and collected the rays
of light that were wandering in that dark (for the pupil shall be
enlarged by looking; there never was so dark a night but a faithful and
patient eye, however small, might at last prevail over it),--after all
this, I say, things began to take shape to our vision,--if we may use
this expression where there was nothing but emptiness,--and we obtained
the long-wished-for insight. Though we thought at first that it was a
hopeless case, after several minutes' steady exercise of the divine
faculty, our prospects began decidedly to brighten, and we were ready
to exclaim with the blind bard of "Paradise Lost and Regained,"--

  "Hail, holy Light! offspring of Heaven first born,
  Or of the Eternal co-eternal beam.
  May I express thee unblamed?"

A little longer, and a chimney rushed red on our sight. In short, when
our vision had grown familiar with the darkness, we discovered that
there were some stones and some loose wads of wool on the floor, and an
empty fireplace at the further end; but it _was not_ supplied with
matches, or straw, or hay, that we could see, nor "accommodated with a
bench." Indeed, it was the wreck of all cosmical beauty there within.

Turning our backs on the outward world, we thus looked through the
knot-hole into the Humane house, into the very bowels of mercy; and for
bread we found a stone. It was literally a great cry (of sea-mews
outside), and a little wool. However, we were glad to sit outside, under
the lee of the Humane house, to escape the piercing wind; and there we
thought how cold is charity! how inhumane humanity! This, then, is what
charity hides! Virtues antique and far away with ever a rusty nail over
the latch; and very difficult to keep in repair, withal, it is so
uncertain whether any will ever gain the beach near you. So we shivered
round about, not being able to get into it, ever and anon looking
through the knot-hole into that night without a star, until we concluded
that it was not a _humane_ house at all, but a sea-side box, now shut up.
belonging to some of the family of Night or Chaos, where they spent
their summers by the sea, for the sake of the sea breeze, and that it
was not proper for us to be prying into their concerns.

My companion had declared before this that I had not a particle of
sentiment, in rather absolute terms, to my astonishment; but I suspect
he meant that my legs did not ache just then, though I am not wholly a
stranger to that sentiment. But I did not intend this for a
sentimental journey.

[Illustration: Herring River at Wellfleet]

[1] We have no word in English to express the sound of many waves,
dashing at once, whether gently or violently, [Greek: polnphloioboios]
to the ear, and, in the ocean's gentle moods, an [Greek: anarithmon
gelasma] to the eye.



V

THE WELLFLEET OYSTERMAN

Having walked about eight miles since we struck the beach, and passed
the boundary between Wellfleet and Truro, a stone post in the sand,--for
even this sand comes under the jurisdiction of one town or another,--we
turned inland over barren hills and valleys, whither the sea, for some
reason, did not follow us, and, tracing up a Hollow, discovered two or
three sober-looking houses within half a mile, uncommonly near the
eastern coast. Their garrets were apparently so full of chambers, that
their roofs could hardly lie down straight, and we did not doubt that
there was room for us there. Houses near the sea are generally low and
broad. These were a story and a half high; but if you merely counted the
windows in their gable-ends, you would think that there were many
stories more, or, at any rate, that the half-story was the only one
thought worthy of being illustrated. The great number of windows in the
ends of the houses, and their irregularity in size and position, here
and elsewhere on the Cape, struck us agreeably,--as if each of the
various occupants who had their _cunabula_ behind had punched a hole where
his necessities required it, and, according to his size and stature,
without regard to outside effect. There were windows for the grown
folks, and windows for the children,--three or four apiece; as a certain
man had a large hole cut in his barn-door for the cat, and another
smaller one for the kitten. Sometimes they were so low under the eaves
that I thought they must have perforated the plate beam for another
apartment, and I noticed some which were triangular, to fit that part
more exactly. The ends of the houses had thus as many muzzles as a
revolver, and, if the inhabitants have the same habit of staring out the
windows that some of our neighbors have, a traveller must stand a small
chance with them.

Generally, the old-fashioned and unpainted houses on the Cape looked
more comfortable, as well as picturesque, than the modern and more
pretending ones, which were less in harmony with the scenery, and less
firmly planted.

[Illustration: A characteristic gable with many windows]

These houses were on the shores of a chain of ponds, seven in number,
the source of a small stream called Herring River, which empties into
the Bay. There are many Herring Rivers on the Cape; they will, perhaps,
be more numerous than herrings soon. We knocked at the door of the first
house, but its inhabitants were all gone away. In the meanwhile, we saw
the occupants of the next one looking out the window at us, and before
we reached it an old woman came out and fastened the door of her
bulkhead, and went in again. Nevertheless, we did not hesitate to knock
at her door, when a grizzly-looking man appeared, whom we took to be
sixty or seventy years old. He asked us, at first, suspiciously, where
we were from, and what our business was; to which we returned plain
answers.

"How far is Concord from Boston?" he inquired.

"Twenty miles by railroad."

"Twenty miles by railroad," he repeated.

"Didn't you ever hear of Concord of Revolutionary fame?"

"Didn't I ever hear of Concord? Why, I heard the guns fire at the battle
of Bunker Hill. [They hear the sound of heavy cannon across the Bay.] I
am almost ninety; I am eighty-eight year old. I was fourteen year old at
the time of Concord Fight,--and where were you then?"

We were obliged to confess that we were not in the fight.

"Well, walk in, we'll leave it to the women," said he.

So we walked in, surprised, and sat down, an old woman taking our hats
and bundles, and the old man continued, drawing up to the large,
old-fashioned fireplace,--

"I am a poor good-for-nothing crittur, as Isaiah says; I am all broken
down this year. I am under petticoat government here."

The family consisted of the old man, his wife, and his daughter, who
appeared nearly as old as her mother, a fool, her son (a
brutish-looking, middle-aged man, with a prominent lower face, who was
standing by the hearth when we entered, but immediately went out), and a
little boy of ten.

While my companion talked with the women, I talked with the old man.
They said that he was old and foolish, but he was evidently too knowing
for them.

"These women," said he to me, "are both of them poor good-for-nothing
critturs. This one is my wife. I married her sixty-four years ago. She
is eighty-four years old, and as deaf as an adder, and the other is not
much better."

He thought well of the Bible, or at least he _spoke_ well, and did not
_think_ ill, of it, for that would not have been prudent for a man of his
age. He said that he had read it attentively for many years, and he had
much of it at his tongue's end. He seemed deeply impressed with a sense
of his own nothingness, and would repeatedly exclaim,--

"I am a nothing. What I gather from my Bible is just this: that man is a
poor good-for-nothing crittur, and everything is just as God sees fit
and disposes."

"May I ask your name?" I said.

"Yes," he answered, "I am not ashamed to tell my name. My name is----.
My great-grandfather came over from England and settled here."

He was an old Wellfleet oysterman, who had acquired a competency in that
business, and had sons still engaged in it.

Nearly all the oyster shops and stands in Massachusetts, I am told, are
supplied and kept by natives of Wellfleet, and a part of this town is
still called Billingsgate from the oysters having been formerly planted
there; but the native oysters are said to have died in 1770. Various
causes are assigned for this, such as a ground frost, the carcasses of
blackfish kept to rot in the harbor, and the like, but the most common
account of the matter is,--and I find that a similar superstition with
regard to the disappearance of fishes exists almost everywhere,--that
when Wellfleet began to quarrel with the neighboring towns about the
right to gather them, yellow specks appeared in them, and Providence
caused them to disappear. A few years ago sixty thousand bushels were
annually brought from the South and planted in the harbor of Wellfleet
till they attained "the proper relish of Billingsgate"; but now they are
imported commonly full-grown, and laid down near their markets, at
Boston and elsewhere, where the water, being a mixture of salt and
fresh, suits them better. The business was said to be still good and
improving.

The old man said that the oysters were liable to freeze in the winter,
if planted too high; but if it were not "so cold as to strain their
eyes" they were not injured. The inhabitants of New Brunswick have
noticed that "ice will not form over an oyster-bed, unless the cold is
very intense indeed, and when the bays are frozen over the oyster-beds
are easily discovered by the water above them remaining unfrozen, or as
the French residents say, _degèle_." Our host said that they kept them in
cellars all winter.

"Without anything to eat or drink?" I asked.

"Without anything to eat or drink," he answered.

"Can the oysters move?"

"Just as much as my shoe."

[Illustration: A Welfleet oysterman]

But when I caught him saying that they "bedded themselves down in the
sand, flat side up, round side down," I told him that my shoe could not
do that, without the aid of my foot in it; at which he said that they
merely settled down as they grew; if put down in a square they would be
found so; but the clam could move quite fast. I have since been told by
oystermen of Long Island, where the oyster is still indigenous and
abundant, that they are found in large masses attached to the parent in
their midst, and are so taken up with their tongs; in which case, they
say, the age of the young proves that there could have been no motion
for five or six years at least. And Buckland in his Curiosities of
Natural History (page 50) says: "An oyster who has once taken up his
position and fixed himself when quite young can never make a change.
Oysters, nevertheless, that have not fixed themselves, but remain loose
at the bottom of the sea, have the power of locomotion; they open their
shells to their fullest extent, and then suddenly contracting them, the
expulsion of the water forwards gives a motion backwards. A fisherman at
Guernsey told me that he had frequently seen oysters moving in this
way."

Some still entertain the question "whether the oyster was indigenous in
Massachusetts Bay," and whether Wellfleet harbor was a "natural habitat"
of this fish; but, to say nothing of the testimony of old oystermen,
which, I think, is quite conclusive, though the native oyster may now be
extinct there, I saw that their shells, opened by the Indians, were
strewn all over the Cape. Indeed, the Cape was at first thickly settled
by Indians on account of the abundance of these and other fish. We saw
many traces of their occupancy after this, in Truro, near Great Hollow,
and at High-Head, near East Harbor River,--oysters, clams, cockles, and
other shells, mingled with ashes and the bones of deer and other
quadrupeds. I picked up half a dozen arrow-heads, and in an hour or two
could have filled my pockets with them. The Indians lived about the
edges of the swamps, then probably in some instances ponds, for shelter
and water. Moreover, Champlain in the edition of his "Voyages" printed
in 1613, says that in the year 1606 he and Poitrincourt explored a
harbor (Barnstable Harbor?) in the southerly part of what is now called
Massachusetts Bay, in latitude 42 degrees, about five leagues south, one
point west of _Cap Blanc_ (Cape Cod), and there they found many good
oysters, and they named it "_le Port aux Huistres_" (Oyster Harbor). In
one edition of his map (1632), the _"R. aux Escailles_" is drawn emptying
into the same part of the bay, and on the map "_Novi Belgii_," in Ogilby's
"America" (1670), the words "_Port aux Huistres_" are placed against the
same place. Also William Wood, who left New England in 1633, speaks, in
his "New England's Prospect," published in 1634, of "a great
oyster-bank" in Charles River, and of another in the Mistick, each of
which obstructed the navigation of its river. "The oysters," says he,
"be great ones in form of a shoehorn; some be a foot long; these breed
on certain banks that are bare every spring tide. This fish without the
shell is so big, that it must admit of a division before you can well
get it into your mouth." Oysters are still found there. (Also, see
Thomas Morton's "New English Canaan," page 90.)

Our host told us that the sea-clam, or hen, was not easily obtained; it
was raked up, but never on the Atlantic side, only cast ashore there in
small quantities in storms. The fisherman sometimes wades in water
several feet deep, and thrusts a pointed stick into the sand before him.
When this enters between the valves of a clam, he closes them on it, and
is drawn out. It has been known to catch and hold coot and teal which
were preying on it. I chanced to be on the bank of the Acushnet at New
Bedford one day since this, watching some ducks, when a man informed me
that, having let out his young ducks to seek their food amid the
samphire (_Salicornia_) and other weeds along the river-side at low tide
that morning, at length he noticed that one remained stationary, amid
the weeds, something preventing it from following the others, and going
to it he found its foot tightly shut in a quahog's shell. He took up
both together, carried them to his home, and his wife opening the shell
with a knife released the duck and cooked the quahog. The old man said
that the great clams were good to eat, but that they always took out a
certain part which was poisonous, before they cooked them. "People said
it would kill a cat." I did not tell him that I had eaten a large one
entire that afternoon, but began to think that I was tougher than a cat.
He stated that pedlers came round there, and sometimes tried to sell the
women folks a skimmer, but he told them that their women had got a
better skimmer than _they_ could make, in the shell of their clams; it was
shaped just right for this purpose.--They call them "skim-alls" in some
places. He also said that the sun-squall was poisonous to handle, and
when the sailors came across it, they did not meddle with it, but heaved
it out of their way. I told him that I had handled it that afternoon,
and had felt no ill effects as yet. But he said it made the hands itch,
especially if they had previously been scratched, or if I put it into my
bosom I should find out what it was.

He informed us that no ice ever formed on the back side of the Cape, or
not more than once in a century, and but little snow lay there, it being
either absorbed or blown or washed away. Sometimes in winter, when the
tide was down, the beach was frozen, and afforded a hard road up the
back side for some thirty miles, as smooth as a floor. One winter when
he was a boy, he and his father "took right out into the back side
before daylight, and walked to Provincetown and back to dinner."

When I asked what they did with all that barren-looking land, where I
saw so few cultivated fields,--"Nothing," he said.

"Then why fence your fields?"

"To keep the sand from blowing and covering up the whole."

"The yellow sand," said he, "has some life in it, but the white little
or none."

When, in answer to his questions, I told him that I was a surveyor, he
said that they who surveyed his farm were accustomed, where the ground
was uneven, to loop up each chain as high as their elbows; that was the
allowance they made, and he wished to know if I could tell him why they
did not come out according to his deed, or twice alike. He seemed to
have more respect for surveyors of the old school, which I did not
wonder at. "King George the Third," said he, "laid out a road four rods
wide and straight the whole length of the Cape," but where it was now he
could not tell.

This story of the surveyors reminded me of a Long-Islander, who once,
when I had made ready to jump from the bow of his boat to the shore, and
he thought that I underrated the distance and would fall short,--though
I found afterward that he judged of the elasticity of my joints by his
own,--told me that when he came to a brook which he wanted to get over,
he held up one leg, and then, if his foot appeared to cover any part of
the opposite bank, he knew that he could jump it. "Why," I told him, "to
say nothing of the Mississippi, and other small watery streams, I could
blot out a star with my foot, but I would not engage to jump that
distance," and asked how he knew when he had got his leg at the right
elevation. But he regarded his legs as no less accurate than a pair of
screw dividers or an ordinary quadrant, and appeared to have a painful
recollection of every degree and minute in the arc which they described;
and he would have had me believe that there was a kind of hitch in his
hip-joint which answered the purpose. I suggested that he should connect
his two ankles by a string of the proper length, which should be the
chord of an arc, measuring his jumping ability on horizontal
surfaces,--assuming one leg to be a perpendicular to the plane of the
horizon, which, however, may have been too bold an assumption in this
case. Nevertheless, this was a kind of geometry in the legs which it
interested me to hear of.

Our host took pleasure in telling us the names of the ponds, most of
which we could see from his windows, and making us repeat them after
him, to see if we had got them right. They were Gull Pond, the largest
and a very handsome one, clear and deep, and more than a mile in
circumference, Newcomb's, Swett's, Slough, Horse-Leech, Round, and
Herring Ponds, all connected at high water, if I do not mistake. The
coast-surveyors had come to him for their names, and he told them of one
which they had not detected. He said that they were not so high as
formerly. There was an earthquake about four years before he was born,
which cracked the pans of the ponds, which were of iron, and caused them
to settle. I did not remember to have read of this. Innumerable gulls
used to resort to them; but the large gulls were now very scarce, for,
as he said, the English robbed their nests far in the north, where they
breed. He remembered well when gulls were taken in the gull-house, and
when small birds were killed by means of a frying-pan and fire at night.
His father once lost a valuable horse from this cause. A party from
Wellfleet having lighted their fire for this purpose, one dark night, on
Billingsgate Island, twenty horses which were pastured there, and this
colt among them, being frightened by it, and endeavoring in the dark to
cross the passage which separated them from the neighboring beach, and
which was then fordable at low tide, were all swept out to sea and
drowned. I ob-served that many horses were still turned out to pasture
all summer on the islands and beaches in Wellfleet, Eastham, and
Orleans, as a kind of common. He also described the killing of what he
called "wild hens" here, after they had gone to roost in the woods, when
he was a boy. Perhaps they were "Prairie hens" (pinnated grouse).

He liked the Beach-pea (_Lathyrus maritimus_), cooked green, as well as
the cultivated. He had seen it growing very abundantly in Newfoundland,
where also the inhabitants ate them, but he had never been able to
obtain any ripe for seed. We read, under the head of Chatham, that "in
1555, during a time of great scarcity, the people about Orford, in
Sussex (England) were preserved from perishing by eating the seeds of
this plant, which grew there in great abundance on the sea-coast. Cows,
horses, sheep, and goats eat it." But the writer who quoted this could
not learn that they had ever been used in Barnstable County.

He had been a voyager, then? O, he had been about the world in his day.
He once considered himself a pilot for all our coast; but now they had
changed the names so he might be bothered.

He gave us to taste what he called the Summer Sweeting, a pleasant apple
which he raised, and frequently grafted from, but had never seen growing
elsewhere, except once,--three trees on Newfoundland, or at the Bay of
Chaleur, I forget which, as he was sailing by. He was sure that he could
tell the tree at a distance.

At length the fool, whom my companion called the wizard, came in,
muttering between his teeth, "Damn book-pedlers,--all the time talking
about books. Better do something. Damn 'em. I'll shoot 'em. Got a doctor
down here. Damn him, I'll get a gun and shoot him"; never once holding
up his head. Whereat the old man stood up and said in a loud voice, as
if he was accustomed to command, and this was not the first time he had
been obliged to exert his authority there: "John, go sit down, mind your
business,--we've heard you talk before,--precious little you'll
do,--your bark is worse than your bite." But, without minding, John
muttered the same gibberish over again, and then sat down at the table
which the old folks had left. He ate all there was on it, and then
turned to the apples, which his aged mother was paring, that she might
give her guests some apple-sauce for breakfast, but she drew them away
and sent him off.

[Illustration: Welfleet]

When I approached this house the next summer, over the desolate hills
between it and the shore, which are worthy to have been the birthplace
of Ossian, I saw the wizard in the midst of a cornfield on the hillside,
but, as usual, he loomed so strangely, that I mistook him for a
scarecrow.

This was the merriest old man that we had ever seen, and one of the best
preserved. His style of conversation was coarse and plain enough to have
suited Rabelais. He would have made a good Panurge. Or rather he was a
sober Silenus, and we were the boys Chromis and Mnasilus, who listened
to his story.

  "Not by Hæmonian hills the Thracian bard.
  Nor awful Phoebus was on Pindus heard
  With deeper silence or with more regard."

There was a strange mingling of past and present in his conversation,
for he had lived under King George, and might have remembered when
Napoleon and the moderns generally were born. He said that one day, when
the troubles between the Colonies and the mother country first broke
out, as he, a boy of fifteen, was pitching hay out of a cart, one Doane,
an old Tory, who was talking with his father, a good Whig, said to him,
"Why, Uncle Bill, you might as well undertake to pitch that pond into
the ocean with a pitchfork, as for the Colonies to undertake to gain
their independence." He remembered well General Washington, and how he
rode his horse along the streets of Boston, and he stood up to show us
how he looked.

"He was a r--a--ther large and portly-looking man, a manly and
resolute-looking officer, with a pretty good leg as he sat on his
horse."--"There, I'll tell you, this was the way with Washington." Then
he jumped up again, and bowed gracefully to right and left, making show
as if he were waving his hat. Said he, _"That_ was Washington."

He told us many anecdotes of the Revolution, and was much pleased when
we told him that we had read the same in history, and that his account
agreed with the written.

"O," he said, "I know, I know! I was a young fellow of sixteen, with my
ears wide open; and a fellow of that age, you know, is pretty wide
awake, and likes to know everything that's going on. O, I know!"

He told us the story of the wreck of the _Franklin_, which took place
there the previous spring: how a boy came to his house early in the
morning to know whose boat that was by the shore, for there was a vessel
in distress, and he, being an old man, first ate his breakfast, and then
walked over to the top of the hill by the shore, and sat down there,
having found a comfortable seat, to see the ship wrecked. She was on the
bar, only a quarter of a mile from him, and still nearer to the men on
the beach, who had got a boat ready, but could render no assistance on
account of the breakers, for there was a pretty high sea running. There
were the passengers all crowded together in the forward part of the
ship, and some were getting out of the cabin windows and were drawn on
deck by the others.

"I saw the captain get out his boat," said he; "he had one little one;
and then they jumped into it one after another, down as straight as an
arrow. I counted them. There were nine. One was a woman, and she jumped
as straight as any of them. Then they shoved off. The sea took them
back, one wave went over them, and when they came up there were six
still clinging to the boat; I counted them. The next wave turned the
boat bottom upward, and emptied them all out. None of them ever came
ashore alive. There were the rest of them all crowded together on the
forecastle, the other parts of the ship being under water. They had seen
all that happened to the boat. At length a heavy sea separated the
forecastle from the rest of the wreck, and set it inside of the worst
breaker, and the boat was able to reach them, and it saved all that were
left, but one woman."

He also told us of the steamer _Cambria's_ getting aground on his shore a
few months before we were there, and of her English passengers who
roamed over his grounds, and who, he said, thought the prospect from the
high hill by the shore "the most delightsome they had ever seen," and
also of the pranks which the ladies played with his scoop-net in the
ponds. He spoke of these travellers with their purses full of guineas,
just as our provincial fathers used to speak of British bloods in the
time of King George the Third.

_Quid loquar?_ Why repeat what he told us?

    "Aut Scyllam Nisi, quam fama secuta est,
  Candida succinctam latrantibus inguina monstris,
  Dulichias vexâsse rates, et gurgite in alto
  Ah timidos nautas canibus lacerâsse marinis?"

In the course of the evening I began to feel the potency of the clam
which I had eaten, and I was obliged to confess to our host that I was
no tougher than the cat he told of; but he answered, that he was a
plain-spoken man, and he could tell me that it was all imagination. At
any rate, it proved an emetic in my case, and I was made quite sick by
it for a short time, while he laughed at my expense. I was pleased to
read afterward, in Mourt's Relation of the landing of the Pilgrims in
Provincetown Harbor, these words: "We found great muscles (the old
editor says that they were undoubtedly sea-clams) and very fat and full
of sea-pearl; but we could not eat them, for they made us all sick that
did eat, as well sailors as passengers, ... but they were soon well
again." It brought me nearer to the Pilgrims to be thus reminded by a
similar experience that I was so like them. Moreover, it was a valuable
confirmation of their story, and I am prepared now to believe every word
of Mourt's Relation. I was also pleased to find that man and the clam
lay still at the same angle to one another. But I did not notice
sea-pearl. Like Cleopatra, I must have swallowed it. I have since dug
these clams on a flat in the Bay and observed them. They could squirt
full ten feet before the wind, as appeared by the marks of the drops on
the sand.

"Now I'm going to ask you a question," said the old man, "and I don't
know as you can tell me; but you are a learned man, and I never had any
learning, only what I got by natur."--It was in vain that we reminded
him that he could quote Josephus to our confusion.--"I've thought, if I
ever met a learned man I should like to ask him this question. Can you
tell me how _Axy_ is spelt, and what it means? _Axy_," says he; "there's a
girl over here is named _Axy_. Now what is it? What does it mean? Is it
Scripture? I've read my Bible twenty-five years over and over, and I
never came across it."

"Did you read it twenty-five years for this object.''" I asked.

"Well, _how_ is it spelt? Wife, how is it spelt?" She said: "It is in the
Bible; I've seen it."

"Well, how do you spell it?"

"I don't know. A c h, ach, s e h, seh,--Achseh."

"Does that spell Axy? Well, do _you_ know what it means?" asked he,
turning to me.

"No," I replied, "I never heard the sound before."

"There was a schoolmaster down here once, and they asked him what it
meant, and he said it had no more meaning than a bean-pole."

I told him that I held the same opinion with the schoolmaster. I had
been a schoolmaster myself, and had had strange names to deal with. I
also heard of such names as Zoleth, Beriah, Amaziah, Bethuel, and
Shearjashub, hereabouts.

At length the little boy, who had a seat quite in the chimney-corner,
took off his stockings and shoes, warmed his feet, and having had his
sore leg freshly salved, went off to bed; then the fool made bare his
knotty-looking feet and legs, and followed him; and finally the old man
exposed his calves also to our gaze. We had never had the good fortune
to see an old man's legs before, and were surprised to find them fair
and plump as an infant's, and we thought that he took a pride in
exhibiting them. He then proceeded to make preparations for retiring,
discoursing meanwhile with Panurgic plainness of speech on the ills to
which old humanity is subject. We were a rare haul for him. He could
commonly get none but ministers to talk to, though sometimes ten of them
at once, and he was glad to meet some of the laity at leisure. The
evening was not long enough for him. As I had been sick, the old lady
asked if I would not go to bed,--it was getting late for old people; but
the old man, who had not yet done his stories, said, "You ain't
particular, are you?"

"O, no," said I, "I am in no hurry. I believe I have weathered the Clam
cape."

"They are good," said he; "I wish I had some of them now."

"They never hurt me," said the old lady.

"But then you took out the part that killed a cat," said I.

At last we cut him short in the midst of his stories, which he promised
to resume in the morning. Yet, after all, one of the old ladies who came
into our room in the night to fasten the fire-board, which rattled, as
she went out took the precaution to fasten us in. Old women are by
nature more suspicious than old men. However, the winds howled around
the house, and made the fire-boards as well as the casements rattle well
that night. It was probably a windy night for any locality, but we could
not distinguish the roar which was proper to the ocean from that which
was due to the wind alone.

The sounds which the ocean makes must be very significant and
interesting to those who live near it. When I was leaving the shore at
this place the next summer, and had got a quarter of a mile distant,
ascending a hill, I was startled by a sudden, loud sound from the sea,
as if a large steamer were letting off steam by the shore, so that I
caught my breath and felt my blood run cold for an instant, and I turned
about, expecting to see one of the Atlantic steamers thus far out of her
course, but there was nothing unusual to be seen. There was a low bank
at the entrance of the Hollow, between me and the ocean, and suspecting
that I might have risen into another stratum of air in ascending the
hill,--which had wafted to me only the ordinary roar of the sea,--I
immediately descended again, to see if I lost _hearing_ of it; but,
without regard to my ascending or descending, it died away in a minute
or two, and yet there was scarcely any wind all the while. The old man
said that this was what they called the "rut," a peculiar roar of the
sea before the wind changes, which, however, he could not account for.
He thought that he could tell all about the weather from the sounds
which the sea made.

Old Josselyn, who came to New England in 1638, has it among his
weather-signs, that "the resounding of the sea from the shore, and
murmuring of the winds in the woods, without apparent wind, sheweth wind
to follow."

Being on another part of the coast one night since this, I heard the
roar of the surf a mile distant, and the inhabitants said it was a sign
that the wind would work round east, and we should have rainy weather.
The ocean was heaped up somewhere at the eastward, and this roar was
occasioned by its effort to preserve its equilibrium, the wave reaching
the shore before the wind. Also the captain of a packet between this
country and England told me that he sometimes met with a wave on the
Atlantic coming against the wind, perhaps in a calm sea, which indicated
that at a distance the wind was blowing from an opposite quarter, but
the undulation had travelled faster than it. Sailors tell of "tide-rips"
and "ground-swells," which they suppose to have been occasioned by
hurricanes and earthquakes, and to have travelled many hundred, and
sometimes even two or three thousand miles.

[Illustration: Hunting for a Leak]

Before sunrise the next morning they let us out again, and I ran over to
the beach to see the sun come out of the ocean. The old woman of
eighty-four winters was already out in the cold morning wind,
bareheaded, tripping about like a young girl, and driving up the cow to
milk. She got the breakfast with despatch, and without noise or bustle;
and meanwhile the old man resumed his stories, standing before us, who
were sitting, with his back to the chimney, and ejecting his tobacco
juice right and left into the fire behind him, without regard to the
various dishes which were there preparing. At breakfast we had eels,
buttermilk cake, cold bread, green beans, doughnuts, and tea. The old
man talked a steady stream; and when his wife told him he had better eat
his breakfast, he said: "Don't hurry me; I have lived too long to be
hurried." I ate of the apple-sauce and the doughnuts, which I thought
had sustained the least detriment from the old man's shots, but my
companion refused the apple-sauce, and ate of the hot cake and green
beans, which had appeared to him to occupy the safest part of the
hearth. But on comparing notes afterward, I told him that the buttermilk
cake was particularly exposed, and I saw how it suffered repeatedly, and
therefore I avoided it; but he declared that, however that might be, he
witnessed that the apple-sauce was seriously injured, and had therefore
declined that. After breakfast we looked at his clock, which was out of
order, and oiled it with some "hen's grease," for want of sweet oil, for
he scarcely could believe that we were not tinkers or pedlers; meanwhile
he told a story about visions, which had reference to a crack in the
clock-case made by frost one night. He was curious to know to what
religious sect we belonged. He said that he had been to hear thirteen
kinds of preaching in one month, when he was young, but he did not join
any of them,--he stuck to his Bible. There was nothing like any of them
in his Bible. While I was shaving in the next room, I heard him ask my
companion to what sect he belonged, to which he answered:--

"O, I belong to the Universal Brotherhood."

"What's that?" he asked, "Sons o' Temperance?"

Finally, filling our pockets with doughnuts, which he was pleased to
find that we called by the same name that he did, and paying for our
entertainment, we took our departure; but he followed us out of doors,
and made us tell him the names of the vegetables which he had raised
from seeds that came out of the _Franklin_. They were cabbage, broccoli,
and parsley. As I had asked him the names of so many things, he tried me
in turn with all the plants which grew in his garden, both wild and
cultivated. It was about half an acre, which he cultivated wholly
himself. Besides the common garden vegetables, there were Yellow-Dock,
Lemon Balm, Hyssop, Gill-go-over-the-ground. Mouse-ear, Chick-weed,
Roman Wormwood, Elecampane, and other plants. As we stood there, I saw a
fish-hawk stoop to pick a fish out of his pond.

"There," said I, "he has got a fish."

"Well," said the old man, who was looking all the while, but could see
nothing, "he didn't dive, he just wet his claws."

And, sure enough, he did not this time, though it is said that they
often do, but he merely stooped low enough to pick him out with his
talons; but as he bore his shining prey over the bushes, it fell to the
ground, and we did not see that he recovered it. That is not their
practice.

Thus, having had another crack with the old man, he standing bareheaded
under the eaves, he directed us "athwart the fields," and we took to the
beach again for another day, it being now late in the morning.

It was but a day or two after this that the safe of the Provincetown
Bank was broken open and robbed by two men from the interior, and we
learned that our hospitable entertainers did at least transiently harbor
the suspicion that we were the men.




VI

THE BEACH AGAIN

Our way to the high sand-bank, which I have described as extending all
along the coast, led, as usual, through patches of Bayberry bushes which
straggled into the sand. This, next to the Shrub-oak, was perhaps the
most common shrub thereabouts. I was much attracted by its odoriferous
leaves and small gray berries which are clustered about the short twigs,
just below the last year's growth. I know of but two bushes in Concord,
and they, being staminate plants, do not bear fruit. The berries gave it
a venerable appearance, and they smelled quite spicy, like small
confectionery. Robert Beverley, in his "History of Virginia," published
in 1705, states that "at the mouth of their rivers, and all along upon
the sea and bay, and near many of their creeks and swamps, grows the
myrtle, bearing a berry, of which they make a hard brittle wax, of a
curious green color, which by refining becomes almost transparent. Of
this they make candles, which are never greasy to the touch nor melt
with lying in the hottest weather; neither does the snuff of these ever
offend the smell, like that of a tallow candle; but, instead of being
disagreeable, if an accident puts a candle out, it yields a pleasant
fragrancy to all that are in the room; insomuch that nice people often
put them out on purpose to have the incense of the expiring snuff. The
melting of these berries is said to have been first found out by a
surgeon in New England, who performed wonderful things with a salve made
of them." From the abundance of berries still hanging on the bushes, we
judged that the inhabitants did not generally collect them for tallow,
though we had seen a piece in the house we had just left. I have since
made some tallow myself. Holding a basket beneath the bare twigs in
April, I rubbed them together between my hands and thus gathered about a
quart in twenty minutes, to which were added enough to make three pints,
and I might have gathered them much faster with a suitable rake and a
large shallow basket. They have little prominences like those of an
orange all creased in tallow, which also fills the interstices down to
the stone. The oily part rose to the top, making it look like a savory
black broth, which smelled much like balm or other herb tea. You let it
cool, then skim off the tallow from the surface, melt this again and
strain it. I got about a quarter of a pound weight from my three pints,
and more yet remained within the berries. A small portion cooled in the
form of small flattish hemispheres, like crystallizations, the size of a
kernel of corn (nuggets I called them as I picked them out from amid the
berries), Loudon says, that "cultivated trees are said to yield more wax
than those that are found wild." (See Duplessy, Vegetaux Resineux, Vol.
II. p. 60.) If you get any pitch on your hands in the pine-woods you have
only to rub some of these berries between your hands to start it off.
But the ocean was the grand fact there, which made us forget both bay
berries and men.

To-day the air was beautifully clear, and the sea no longer dark and
stormy, though the waves still broke with foam along the beach, but
sparkling and full of life. Already that morning I had seen the day
break over the sea as if it came out of its bosom:--

  "The saffron-robed Dawn rose in haste from the streams
   Of Ocean, that she might bring light to immortals and to mortals."

The sun rose visibly at such a distance over the sea that the cloud-bank
in the horizon, which at first concealed him, was not perceptible until
he had risen high behind it, and plainly broke and dispersed it, like an
arrow. But as yet I looked at him as rising over land, and could not,
without an effort, realize that he was rising over the sea. Already I
saw some vessels on the horizon, which had rounded the Cape in the
night, and were now well on their watery way to other lands.

We struck the beach again in the south part of Truro. In the early part
of the day, while it was flood tide and the beach was narrow and soft,
we walked on the bank, which was very high here, but not so level as the
day before, being more interrupted by slight hollows. The author of the
Description of the Eastern Coast says of this part, that "the bank is
very high and steep. From the edge of it west, there is a strip of sand
a hundred yards in breadth. Then succeeds low brushwood, a quarter of a
mile wide, and almost impassable. After which comes a thick, perplexing
forest, in which not a house is to be discovered. Seamen, therefore,
though the distance between these two hollows (Newcomb's and Brush
Hollows) is great, must not attempt to enter the wood, as in a snowstorm
they must undoubtedly perish." This is still a true description of the
country, except that there is not much high wood left.

[Illustration: Truro--Starting on a voyage]

There were many vessels, like gulls, skimming over the surface of the
sea, now half concealed in its troughs, their dolphin-strikers ploughing
the water, now tossed on the top of the billows. One, a bark standing
down parallel with the coast, suddenly furled her sails, came to anchor,
and swung round in the wind, near us, only half a mile from the shore.
At first we thought that her captain wished to communicate with us, and
perhaps we did not regard the signal of distress, which a mariner would
have understood, and he cursed us for cold-hearted wreckers who turned
our backs on him. For hours we could still see her anchored there behind
us, and we wondered how she could afford to loiter so long in her
course. Or was she a smuggler who had chosen that wild beach to land her
cargo on? Or did they wish to catch fish, or paint their vessel? Erelong
other barks, and brigs, and schooners, which had in the mean while
doubled the Cape, sailed by her in the smacking breeze, and our
consciences were relieved. Some of these vessels lagged behind, while
others steadily went ahead. We narrowly watched their rig, and the cut
of their jibs, and how they walked the water, for there was all the
difference between them that there is between living creatures. But we
wondered that they should be remembering Boston and New York and
Liverpool, steering for them, out there; as if the sailor might forget
his peddling business on such a grand highway. They had perchance
brought oranges from the Western Isles; and were they carrying back the
peel? We might as well transport our old traps across the ocean of
eternity. Is _that_ but another "trading-flood," with its blessed isles?
Is Heaven such a harbor as the Liverpool docks?

Still held on without a break, the inland barrens and shrubbery, the
desert and the high sand bank with its even slope, the broad white
beach, the breakers, the green water on the bar, and the Atlantic Ocean;
and we traversed with delight new reaches of the shore; we took another
lesson in sea-horses' manes and sea-cows' tails, in sea-jellies and
sea-clams, with our new-gained experience. The sea ran hardly less than
the day before. It seemed with every wave to be subsiding, because such
was our expectation, and yet when hours had elapsed we could see no
difference. But there it was, balancing itself, the restless ocean by
our side, lurching in its gait. Each wave left the sand all braided or
woven, as it were, with a coarse woof and warp, and a distinct raised
edge to its rapid work. We made no haste, since we wished to see the
ocean at our leisure; and indeed that soft sand was no place in which to
be in a hurry, for one mile there was as good as two elsewhere. Besides,
we were obliged frequently to empty our shoes of the sand which one took
in in climbing or descending the bank.

As we were walking close to the water's edge this morning we turned
round, by chance, and saw a large black object which the waves had just
cast up on the beach behind us, yet too far off for us to distinguish
what it was; and when we were about to return to it, two men came
running from the bank, where no human beings had appeared before, as if
they had come out of the sand, in order to save it before another wave
took it. As we approached, it took successively the form of a huge fish,
a drowned man, a sail or a net, and finally of a mass of tow-cloth, part
of the cargo of the _Franklin_, which the men loaded into a cart.

Objects on the beach, whether men or inanimate things, look not only
exceedingly grotesque, but much larger and more wonderful than they
actually are. Lately, when approaching the seashore several degrees
south of this, I saw before me, seemingly half a mile distant, what
appeared like bold and rugged cliffs on the beach, fifteen feet high,
and whitened by the sun and waves; but after a few steps it proved to be
low heaps of rags,--part of the cargo of a wrecked vessel,--scarcely
more than a foot in height. Once also it was my business to go in search
of the relics of a human body, mangled by sharks, which had just been
cast up, a week after a wreck, having got the direction from a
light-house: I should find it a mile or two distant over the sand, a
dozen rods from the water, covered with a cloth, by a stick stuck up. I
expected that I must look very narrowly to find so small an object, but
the sandy beach, half a mile wide, and stretching farther than the eye
could reach, was so perfectly smooth and bare, and the mirage toward the
sea so magnifying, that when I was half a mile distant the insignificant
sliver which marked the spot looked like a bleached spar, and the relics
were as conspicuous as if they lay in state on that sandy plain, or a
generation had labored to pile up their cairn there. Close at hand they
were simply some bones with a little flesh adhering to them, in fact,
only a slight inequality in the sweep of the shore. There was nothing at
all remarkable about them, and they were singularly inoffensive both to
the senses and the imagination. But as I stood there they grew more and
more imposing. They were alone with the beach and the sea, whose hollow
roar seemed addressed to them, and I was impressed as if there was an
understanding between them and the ocean which necessarily left me out,
with my snivelling sympathies. That dead body had taken possession of
the shore, and reigned over it as no living one, could, in the name of a
certain majesty which belonged to it.

We afterward saw many small pieces of tow-cloth washed up, and I learn
that it continued to be found in good condition, even as late as
November in that year, half a dozen bolts at a time.

We eagerly filled our pockets with the smooth round pebbles which in
some places, even here, were thinly sprinkled over the sand, together
with flat circular shells (_Scutelloe?_); but, as we had read, when they
were dry they had lost their beauty, and at each sitting we emptied our
pockets again of the least remarkable, until our collection was well
culled. Every material was rolled into the pebble form by. the waves;
not only stones of various kinds, but the hard coal which some vessel
had dropped, bits of glass, and in one instance a mass of peat three
feet long, where there was nothing like it to be seen for many miles.
All the great rivers of the globe are annually, if not constantly,
discharging great quantities of lumber, which drifts to distant shores.
I have also seen very perfect pebbles of brick, and bars of Castile soap
from a wreck rolled into perfect cylinders, and still spirally streaked
with red, like a barber's pole. When a cargo of rags is washed ashore,
every old pocket and bag-like recess will be filled to bursting with
sand by being rolled on the beach; and on one occasion, the pockets in
the clothing of the wrecked being thus puffed up, even after they had
been ripped open by wreckers, deluded me into the hope of identifying
them by the contents. A pair of gloves looked exactly as if filled by a
hand. The water in such clothing is soon wrung out and evaporated, but
the sand, which works itself into every seam, is not so easily got rid
of. Sponges, which are picked up on the shore, as is well known, retain
some of the sand of the beach to the latest day, in spite of every
effort to extract it.

I found one stone on the top of the bank, of a dark gray color, shaped
exactly like a giant clam (_Mactra solidissima_), and of the same size;
and, what was more remarkable, one-half of the outside had shelled off
and lay near it, of the same form and depth with one of the valves of
this clam, while the other half was loose, leaving a solid core of a
darker color within it. I afterward saw a stone resembling a razor clam,
but it was a solid one. It appeared as if the stone, in the process of
formation, had filled the mould which a clam-shell furnished; or the
same law that shaped the clam had made a clam of stone. Dead clams, with
shells full of sand, are called sand clams. There were many of the large
clamshells filled with sand; and sometimes one valve was separately
filled exactly even, as if it had been heaped and then scraped. Even,
among the many small stones on the top of the bank, I found one
arrow-head.

Beside the giant clam and barnacles, we found on the shore a small clam
(_Mesodesma arctata_), which I dug with my hands in numbers on the bars,
and which is sometimes eaten by the inhabitants, in the absence of the
_Mya arenaria_, on this side. Most of their empty shells had been
perforated by some foe.--Also, the

_Astarte castanea_.

The Edible Mussel (_Mytilus edulis_) on the few rocks, and washed up in
curious bunches of forty or fifty, held together by its rope-like
_byssus_.

The Scollop Shell (_Pecten concentricus_), used for card-racks and
pin-cushions.

Cockles, or Cuckoos (_Natica heros_), and their remarkable _nidus_, called
"sand-circle," looking like the top of a stone jug without the stopple,
and broken on one side, or like a flaring dickey made of sand-paper.
Also,

_Cancellaria Couthouyi_ (?), and

Periwinkles (?) (_Fusus decemcostatus_).

We afterward saw some other kinds on the Bay-side. Gould states that
this Cape "has Hitler proved a barrier to the migrations of many
species of Mollusca."--"Of the one hundred and ninety-seven species
[which he described in 1840 as belonging to Massachusetts], eighty-three
do not pass to the South shore, and fifty are not found on the North
shore of the Cape."

Among Crustacea, there were the shells of Crabs and Lobsters, often
bleached quite white high up the beach; Sea or Beach Fleas (_Amphipoda_);
and the cases of the Horse-shoe Crab, or Saucepan Fish (_Limulus
Polyphoemus_), of which we saw many alive on the Bay side, where they
feed pigs on them. Their tails were used as arrow-heads by the Indians.

Of Radiata, there were the Sea Chestnut or Egg (_Echinus granulatus_),
commonly divested of its spines; flat circular shells (_Scutella parma?_)
covered with chocolate-colored spines, but becoming smooth and white,
with five petal-like figures; a few Star-fishes or Five-fingers
(_Asterias rubens_); and Sun-fishes or Sea-jellies (_Aurelioe_).

There was also at least one species of Sponge.

The plants which I noticed here and there on the pure sandy shelf,
between the ordinary high-water mark and the foot of the bank, were Sea
Rocket (_Cakile Americana_), Saltwort (_Salsola kali_), Sea Sandwort
(_Honkenya peploides_), Sea Burdock (_Xanthium echinatum_), Sea-side Spurge
(_Euphorbia poylgonifolia_); also, Beach Grass (_Arundo, Psamma_, or
_Calamagrostis arenaria_), Sea-side Golden-rod (_Solidago sempervirens_),
and the Beach Pea (_Lathyrus maritimus_).

Sometimes we helped a wrecker turn over a larger log than usual, or we
amused ourselves with rolling stones down the bank, but we rarely could
make one reach the water, the beach was so soft and wide; or we bathed
in some shallow within a bar, where the sea covered us with sand at
every flux, though it was quite cold and windy. The ocean there is
commonly but a tantalizing prospect in hot weather, for with all that
water before you, there is, as we were afterward told, no bathing on the
Atlantic side, on account of the undertow and the rumor of sharks. At
the lighthouse both in Eastham and Truro, the only houses quite on the
shore, they declared, the next year, that they would not bathe there
"for any sum," for they sometimes saw the sharks tossed up and quiver
for a moment on the sand. Others laughed at these stories, but perhaps
they could afford to because they never bathed anywhere. One old wrecker
told us that he killed a regular man-eating shark fourteen feet long,
and hauled him out with his oxen, where we had bathed; and another, that
his father caught a smaller one of the same kind that was stranded
there, by standing him up on his snout so that the waves could not take
him. They will tell you tough stories of sharks all over the Cape, which
I do not presume to doubt utterly,--how they will sometimes upset a
boat, or tear it in pieces, to get at the man in it. I can easily
believe in the undertow, but I have no doubt that one shark in a dozen
years is enough to keep up the reputation of a beach a hundred miles
long. I should add, however, that in July we walked on the bank here a
quarter of a mile parallel with a fish about six feet in length,
possibly a shark, which was prowling slowly along within two rods of the
shore. It was of a pale brown color, singularly film-like and indistinct
in the water, as if all nature abetted this child of ocean, and showed
many darker transverse bars or rings whenever it came to the surface. It
is well known that different fishes even of the same species are colored
by the water they inhabit. We saw it go into a little cove or
bathing-tub, where we had just been bathing, where the water was only
four or five feet deep at that time, and after exploring it go slowly
out again; but we continued to bathe there, only observing first from
the bank if the cove was preoccupied. We thought that the water was
fuller of life, more aerated perhaps than that of the Bay, like
soda-water, for we were as particular as young salmon, and the
expectation of encountering a shark did not subtract anything from its
life-giving qualities.

Sometimes we sat on the wet beach and watched the beach birds,
sand-pipers, and others, trotting along close to each wave, and waiting
for the sea to cast up their breakfast. The former (_Charadrius melodus_)
ran with great rapidity and then stood stock still remarkably erect and
hardly to be distinguished from the beach. The wet sand was covered with
small skipping Sea Fleas, which apparently make a part of their food.
These last are the little scavengers of the beach, and are so numerous
that they will devour large fishes, which have been cast up, in a very
short time. One little bird not larger than a sparrow,--it may have been
a Phalarope.--would alight on the turbulent surface where the breakers
were five or six feet high, and float buoyantly there like a duck,
cunningly taking to its wings and lifting itself a few feet through the
air over the foaming crest of each breaker, but sometimes outriding
safely a considerable billow which hid it some seconds, when its
instinct told it that it would not break. It was a little creature thus
to sport with the ocean, but it was as perfect a success in its way as
the breakers in theirs. There was also an almost uninterrupted line of
coots rising and falling with the waves, a few rods from the shore, the
whole length of the Cape. They made as constant a part of the ocean's
border as the pads or pickerel-weed do of that of a pond. We read the
following as to the Storm Petrel (_Thalassidroma Wilsonii_), which is seen
in the Bay as well as on the outside. "The feathers on the breast of the
Storm Petrel are, like those of all swimming birds, water-proof; but
substances not susceptible of being wetted with water are, for that very
reason, the best fitted for collecting oil from its surface. That
function is performed by the feathers on the breast of the Storm Petrels
as they touch on the surface; and though that may not be the only way in
which they procure their food, it is certainly that in which they obtain
great part of it. They dash along till they have loaded their feathers
and then they pause upon the wave and remove the oil with their bills."

Thus we kept on along the gently curving shore, seeing two or three
miles ahead at once,--along this ocean side-walk, where there was none
to turn out for, with the middle of the road the highway of nations on
our right, and the sand cliffs of the Cape on our left. We saw this
forenoon a part of the wreck of a vessel, probably the _Franklin_, a large
piece fifteen feet square, and still freshly painted. With a grapple and
a line we could have saved it, for the waves repeatedly washed it within
cast, but they as often took it back. It would have been a lucky haul
for some poor wrecker, for I have been told that one man who paid three
or four dollars for a part of the wreck of that vessel, sold fifty or
sixty dollars' worth of iron out of it. Another, the same who picked up
the Captain's valise with the memorable letter in it, showed me, growing
in his garden, many pear and plum trees which washed ashore from her,
all nicely tied up and labelled, and he said that he might have got five
hundred dollars' worth; for a Mr. Bell was importing the nucleus of a
nursery to be established near Boston. His turnip-seed came from the
same source. Also valuable spars from the same vessel and from the
_Cactus_ lay in his yard. In short the inhabitants visit the beach to see
what they have caught as regularly as a fisherman his weir or a lumberer
his boom; the Cape is their boom. I heard of one who had recently picked
up twenty barrels of apples in good condition, probably a part of a deck
load thrown over in a storm.

Though there are wreck-masters appointed to look after valuable property
which must be advertised, yet undoubtedly a great deal of value is
secretly carried off. But are we not all wreckers contriving that some
treasure may be washed up on our beach, that we may secure it, and do we
not infer the habits of these Nauset and Barnegat wreckers from the
common modes of getting a living?

The sea, vast and wild as it is, bears thus the waste and wrecks of
human art to its remotest shore. There is no telling what it may not
vomit up. It lets nothing lie; not even the giant clams which cling to
its bottom. It is still heaving up the tow-cloth of the _Franklin_, and
perhaps a piece of some old pirate's ship, wrecked more than a hundred
years ago, comes ashore to-day. Some years since, when a vessel was
wrecked here which had nutmegs in her cargo, they were strewn all along
the beach, and for a considerable time were not spoiled by the salt
water. Soon afterward, a fisherman caught a cod which was full of them.
Why, then, might not the Spice-Islanders shake their nutmeg trees into
the ocean, and let all nations who stand in need of them pick them up?
However, after a year, I found that the nutmegs from the _Franklin_ had
become soft.

You might make a curious list of articles which fishes have
swallowed,--sailors' open clasp-knives, and bright tin snuff-boxes, not
knowing what was in them,--and jugs, and jewels, and Jonah. The other
day I came across the following scrap in a newspaper.

"A Religious Fish.--A short time ago, mine host Stewart, of the Denton
Hotel, purchased a rock-fish, weighing about sixty pounds. On opening it
he found in it a certificate of membership of the M. E. Church, which we
read as follows:--

  Member
  Methodist E. Church.
  Founded A. D. 1784.
  Quarterly Ticket.
  18
  Minister.

'For our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a
far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory.'--"2 Cor. iv. 17.

  'O what are all my sufferings here,
    If, Lord, thou count me meet
  With that enraptured host t' appear,
    And worship at thy feet!'

"The paper was of course in a crumpled and wet condition, but on
exposing it to the sun, and ironing the kinks out of it, it became quite
legible.--_Denton (Md.) Journal_."

From time to time we saved a wreck ourselves, a box or barrel, and set
it on its end, and appropriated it with crossed sticks; and it will lie
there perhaps, respected by brother wreckers, until some more violent
storm shall take it, really lost to man until wrecked again. We also
saved, at the cost of wet feet only, a valuable cord and buoy, part of a
seine, with which the sea was playing, for it seemed ungracious to
refuse the least gift which so great a personage offered you. We brought
this home and still use it for a garden line. I picked up a bottle half
buried in the wet sand, covered with barnacles, but stoppled tight, and
half full of red ale, which still smacked of juniper,--all that remained
I fancied from the wreck of a rowdy world,--that great salt sea on the
one hand, and this little sea of ale on the other, preserving their
separate characters. What if it could tell us its adventures over
countless ocean waves! Man would not be man through such ordeals as it
had passed. But as I poured it slowly out on to the sand, it seemed to
me that man himself was like a half-emptied bottle of pale ale, which
Time had drunk so far, yet stoppled tight for a while, and drifting
about in the ocean of circumstances; but destined erelong to mingle with
the surrounding waves, or be spilled amid the sands of a distant shore.

In the summer I saw two men fishing for Bass hereabouts. Their bait was
a bullfrog, or several small frogs in a bunch, for want of squid. They
followed a retiring wave and whirling their lines round and round their
heads with increasing rapidity, threw them as far as they could into the
sea; then retreating, sat down, flat on the sand, and waited for a bite.
It was literally (or _littorally_) walking down to the shore, and throwing
your line into the Atlantic. I should not have known what might take
hold of the other end, whether Proteus or another. At any rate, if you
could not pull him in, why, you might let him go without being pulled in
yourself. And _they_ knew by experience that it would be a Striped Bass,
or perhaps a Cod, for these fishes play along near the shore.

From time to time we sat under the lee of a sand-hill on the bank,
thinly covered with coarse Beach-grass, and steadily gazed on the sea,
or watched the vessels going south, all Blessings of the Bay of course.
We could see a little more than half a circle of ocean, besides the
glimpses of the Bay which we got behind us; the sea there was not wild
and dreary in all respects, for there were frequently a hundred sail in
sight at once on the Atlantic. You can commonly count about eighty in a
favorable summer day and pilots sometimes land and ascend the bank to
look out for these which require their services. These had been waiting
for fair weather, and had come out of Boston Harbor together. The same
is the case when they have been assembled in the Vineyard Sound, so that
you may see but few one day, and a large fleet the next. Schooners with
many jibs and stay-sails crowded all the sea road; square-rigged vessels
with their great height and breadth of canvas were ever and anon
appearing out of the far horizon, or disappearing and sinking into it;
here and there a pilot-boat was towing its little boat astern toward
some distant foreigner who had just fired a gun, the echo of which along
the shore sounded like the caving of the bank. We could see the pilot
looking through his glass toward the distant ship which was putting back
to speak with him. He sails many a mile to meet her; and now she puts
her sails aback, and communicates with him alongside,--sends some
important message to the owners, and then bids farewell to these shores
for good and all; or, perchance a propeller passed and made fast to some
disabled craft, or one that had been becalmed, whose cargo of fruit
might spoil. Though silently, and for the most part incommunicatively,
going about their business, they were, no doubt, a source of
cheerfulness and a kind of society to one another.

[Illustration: Unloading the day's catch]

To-day it was the Purple Sea, an epithet which I should not before have
accepted. There were distinct patches of the color of a purple grape
with the bloom rubbed off. But first and last the sea is of all colors.
Well writes Gilpin concerning "the brilliant hues which are continually
playing on the surface of a quiet ocean," and this was not too turbulent
at a distance from the shore. "Beautiful," says he, "no doubt in a high
degree are those glimmering tints which often invest the tops of
mountains; but they are mere coruscations compared with these marine
colors, which are continually varying and shifting into each other in
all the vivid splendor of the rainbow, through the space often of
several leagues." Commonly, in calm weather, for half a mile from the
shore, where the bottom tinges it, the sea is green, or greenish, as are
some ponds; then blue for many miles, often with purple tinges, bounded
in the distance by a light almost silvery stripe; beyond which there is
generally a dark-blue rim, like a mountain-ridge in the horizon, as if,
like that, it owed its color to the intervening atmosphere. On another
day it will be marked with long streaks, alternately smooth and rippled,
light-colored and dark, even like our inland meadows in a freshet, and
showing which way the wind sets.

Thus we sat on the foaming shore, looking on the wine-colored ocean,--

  [Greek: Thin eph alos pliês oroôn epi oinopa ponton.]

Here and there was a darker spot on its surface, the shadow of a cloud,
though the sky was so clear that no cloud would have been noticed
otherwise, and no shadow would have been seen on the land, where a much
smaller surface is visible at once. So, distant clouds and showers may
be seen on all sides by a sailor in the course of a day, which do not
necessarily portend rain where he is. In July we saw similar dark-blue
patches where schools of Menhaden rippled the surface, scarcely to be
distinguished from the shadows of clouds. Sometimes the sea was spotted
with them far and wide, such is its inexhaustible fertility. Close at
hand you see their back fin, which is very long and sharp, projecting
two or three inches above water. From time to time also we saw the white
bellies of the Bass playing along the shore.

It was a poetic recreation to watch those distant sails steering for
half-fabulous ports, whose very names are a mysterious music to our
ears: Fayal, and Babelmandel, ay, and Chagres, and Panama,--bound to the
famous Bay of San Francisco, and the golden streams of Sacramento and
San Joaquin, to Feather River and the American Fork, where Sutter's Fort
presides, and inland stands the City de los Angeles. It is remarkable
that men do not sail the sea with more expectation. Nothing remarkable
was ever accomplished in a prosaic mood. The heroes and discoverers have
found true more than was previously believed, only when they were
expecting and dreaming of something more than their contemporaries
dreamed of, or even themselves discovered, that is, when they were in a
frame of mind fitted to behold the truth. Referred to the world's
standard, they are always insane. Even savages have indirectly surmised
as much. Humboldt, speaking of Columbus approaching the New World, says:
"The grateful coolness of the evening air, the ethereal purity of the
starry firmament, the balmy fragrance of flowers, wafted to him by the
land breeze, all led him to suppose (as we are told by Herrara, in the
Decades) that he was approaching the garden of Eden, the sacred abode of
our first parents. The Orinoco seemed to him one of the four rivers
which, according to the venerable tradition of the ancient world, flowed
from Paradise, to water and divide the surface of the earth, newly
adorned with plants." So even the expeditions for the discovery of El
Dorado, and of the Fountain of Youth, led to real, if not compensatory
discoveries.

We discerned vessels so far off, when once we began to look, that only
the tops of their masts in the horizon were visible, and it took a
strong intention of the eye, and its most favorable side, to see them at
all, and sometimes we doubted if we were not counting our eyelashes.
Charles Darwin states that he saw, from the base of the Andes, "the
masts of the vessels at anchor in the bay of Valparaiso, although not
less than twenty-six geographical miles distant," and that Anson had
been surprised at the distance at which his vessels were discovered from
the coast, without knowing the reason, namely, the great height of the
land and the transparency of the air. Steamers may be detected much
farther than sailing vessels, for, as one says, when their hulls and
masts of wood and iron are down, their smoky masts and streamers still
betray them; and the same writer, speaking of the comparative advantages
of bituminous and anthracite coal for war-steamers, states that, "from
the ascent of the columns of smoke above the horizon, the motions of the
steamers in Calais Harbor [on the coast of France] are at all times
observable at Ramsgate [on the English coast], from the first lighting
of the fires to the putting out at sea; and that in America the steamers
burning the fat bituminous coal can be tracked at sea at least seventy
miles before the hulls become visible, by the dense columns of black
smoke pouring out of their chimneys, and trailing along the horizon."

Though there were numerous vessels at this great distance in the horizon
on every side, yet the vast spaces between them, like the spaces between
the stars, far as they were distant from us, so were they from one
another,--nay, some were twice as far from each other as from
us,--impressed us with a sense of the immensity of the ocean, the
"unfruitful ocean," as it has been called, and we could see what
proportion man and his works bear to the globe. As we looked off, and
saw the water growing darker and darker and deeper and deeper the
farther we looked, till it was awful to consider, and it appeared to
have no relation to the friendly land, either as shore or bottom,--of
what use is a bottom if it is out of sight, if it is two or three miles
from the surface, and you are to be drowned so long before you get to
it, though it were made of the same stuff with your native soil?--over
that ocean, where, as the Veda says, "there is nothing to give support,
nothing to rest upon, nothing to cling to," I felt that I was a land
animal. The man in a balloon even may commonly alight on the earth in a
few moments, but the sailor's only hope is that he may reach the distant
shore. I could then appreciate the heroism of the old navigator. Sir
Humphrey Gilbert, of whom it is related that, being overtaken by a storm
when on his return from America, in the year 1583, far northeastward
from where we were, sitting abaft with a book in his hand, just before
he was swallowed up in the deep, he cried out to his comrades in the
_Hind_, as they came within hearing, "We are as near to Heaven by sea as
by land." I saw that it would not be easy to realize.

On Cape Cod, the next most eastern land you hear of is St. George's Bank
(the fishermen tell of "Georges," "Cashus," and other sunken lands which
they frequent). Every Cape man has a theory about George's Bank having
been an island once, and in their accounts they gradually reduce the
shallowness from six, five, four, two fathoms, to somebody's confident
assertion that he has seen a mackerel-gull sitting; on a piece of dry
land there. It reminded me, when I thought of the shipwrecks which had
taken place there, of the Isle of Demons, laid down off this coast in
old charts of the New World. There must be something monstrous,
methinks, in a vision of the sea bottom from over some bank a thousand
miles from the shore, more awful than its imagined bottomlessness; a
drowned continent, all livid and frothing at the nostrils, like the body
of a drowned man, which is better sunk deep than near the surface.

I have been surprised to discover from a steamer the shallowness of
Massachusetts Bay itself. Off Billingsgate Point I could have touched
the bottom with a pole, and I plainly saw it variously shaded with
sea-weed, at five or six miles from the shore. This is "The Shoal-ground
of the Cape," it is true, but elsewhere the bay is not much deeper than
a country pond. We are told that the deepest water in the English
Channel between Shakespeare's Cliff and Cape Grinéz, in France, is one
hundred and eighty feet; and Guyot says that "the Baltic Sea has a depth
of only one hundred and twenty feet between the coasts of Germany and
those of Sweden," and "the Adriatic between Venice and Trieste has a
depth of only one hundred and thirty feet." A pond in my native town,
only half a mile long, is more than one hundred feet deep.

The ocean is but a larger lake. At midsummer you may sometimes see a
strip of glassy smoothness on it, a few rods in width and many miles
long, as if the surface there were covered with a thin pellicle of oil,
just as on a country pond; a sort of stand-still, you would say, at the
meeting or parting of two currents of air (if it does not rather mark
the unrippled steadiness of a current of water beneath), for sailors
tell of the ocean and land breeze meeting between the fore and aft sails
of a vessel, while the latter are full, the former being suddenly taken
aback. Daniel Webster, in one of his letters describing blue-fishing off
Martha's Vineyard, referring to those smooth places, which fishermen and
sailors call "slicks," says: "We met with them yesterday, and our
boatman made for them, whenever discovered. He said they were caused by
the blue-fish chopping up their prey. That is to say, those voracious
fellows get into a school of menhaden, which are too large to swallow
whole, and they bite them into pieces to suit their tastes. And the oil
from this butchery, rising to the surface, makes the 'slick.'"

Yet this same placid Ocean, as civil now as a city's harbor, a place for
ships and commerce, will erelong be lashed into sudden fury, and all its
caves and cliffs will resound with tumult. It will ruthlessly heave
these vessels to and fro, break them in pieces in its sandy or stony
jaws, and deliver their crews to sea-monsters. It will play with them
like sea-weed, distend them like dead frogs, and carry them about, now
high, now low, to show to the fishes, giving them a nibble. This gentle
Ocean will toss and tear the rag of a man's body like the father of mad
bulls, and his relatives may be seen seeking the remnants for weeks
along the strand. From some quiet inland hamlet they have rushed weeping
to the unheard-of shore, and now stand uncertain where a sailor has
recently been buried amid the sandhills.

It is generally supposed that they who have long been conversant with
the Ocean can foretell by certain indications, such as its roar and the
notes of sea-fowl, when it will change from calm to storm; but probably
no such ancient mariner as we dream of exists; they know no more, at
least, than the older sailors do about this voyage of life on which we
are all embarked. Nevertheless, we love to hear the sayings of old
sailors, and their accounts of natural phenomena, which totally ignore,
and are ignored by, science; and possibly they have not always looked
over the gunwale so long in vain. Kalm repeats a story which was told
him in Philadelphia by a Mr. Cock, who was one day sailing to the West
Indies in a small yacht, with an old man on board who was well
acquainted with those seas. "The old man sounding the depth, called to
the mate to tell Mr. Cock to launch the boats immediately, and to put a
sufficient number of men into them, in order to tow the yacht during the
calm, that they might reach the island before them as soon as possible,
as within twenty-four hours there would be a strong hurricane. Mr. Cock
asked him what reasons he had to think so; the old man replied that, on
sounding, he saw the lead in the water at a distance of many fathoms
more than he had seen it before; that therefore the water was become
clear all of a sudden, which he looked upon as a certain sign of an
impending hurricane in the sea." The sequel of the story is that, by
good fortune and by dint of rowing they managed to gain a safe
harbor before the hurricane had reached its height; but it finally
raged with so much violence that not only many ships were lost and
houses unroofed, but even their own vessel in harbor was washed so far
on shore that several weeks elapsed before it could be got off.

The Greeks would not have called the ocean [Greek: atrnletos,] or
unfruitful, though it does not produce wheat, if they had viewed it by
the light of modern science; for naturalists now assert that "the sea,
and not the land, is the principal seat of life,"--though not of
vegetable life. Darwin affirms that "our most thickly inhabited forests
appear almost as deserts when we come to compare them with the
corresponding regions of the ocean." Agassiz and Gould tell us that "the
sea teems with animals of all classes, far beyond the extreme point of
flowering plants"; but they add that "experiments of dredging in very
deep water have also taught us that the abyss of the ocean is nearly a
desert";--"so that modern investigations," to quote the words of Desor,
"merely go to confirm the great idea which was vaguely anticipated by
the ancient poets and philosophers, that the Ocean is the origin of all
things." Yet marine animals and plants hold a lower rank in the scale of
being than land animals and plants. "There is no instance known," says
Desor, "of an animal becoming aquatic in its perfect state, after having
lived in its lower stage on dry land." but as in the case of the
tadpole, "the progress invariably points towards the dry land." In
short, the dry land itself came through and out of the water in its way
to the heavens, for, "in going back through the geological ages, we come
to an epoch when, according to all appearances, the dry land did not
exist, and when the surface of our globe was entirely covered with
water." We looked on the sea, then, once more, not as [Greek:
atrnletos,] or unfruitful, but as it has been more truly called, the
"laboratory of continents."

Though we have indulged in some placid reflections of late, the reader
must not forget that the dash and roar of the waves were incessant.
Indeed, it would be well if he were to read with a large conch-shell at
his ear. But notwithstanding that it was very cold and windy to-day, it
was such a cold as we thought would not cause one to take cold who was
exposed to it, owing to the saltness of the air and the dryness of the
soil. Yet the author of the old Description of Wellfleet says: "The
atmosphere is very much impregnated with saline particles, which,
perhaps, with the great use of fish, and the neglect of cider and
spruce-beer, may be a reason why the people are more subject to sore
mouths and throats than in other places."



VII

ACROSS THE CAPE

When we have returned from the seaside, we sometimes ask ourselves why
we did not spend more time in gazing at the sea; but very soon the
traveller does not look as the sea more than at the heavens. As for the
interior, if the elevated sand-bar in the midst of the ocean can be said
to have any interior, it was an exceedingly desolate landscape, with
rarely a cultivated or cultivable field in sight. We saw no villages,
and seldom a house, for these are generally on the Bay side. It was a
succession of shrubby hills and valleys, now wearing an autumnal tint.
You would frequently think, from the character of the surface, the
dwarfish trees, and the bearberries around, that you were on the top of
a mountain. The only wood in Eastham was on the edge of Wellfleet. The
pitch-pines were not commonly more than fifteen or eighteen feet high.
The larger ones covered with lichens,--often hung with the long gray
_Usnea_. There is scarcely a white-pine on the forearm of the Cape. Yet in
the northwest part of Eastham, near the Camp Ground, we saw, the next
summer, some quite rural, and even sylvan retreats, for the Cape, where
small rustling groves of oaks and locusts and whispering pines, on
perfectly level ground, made a little paradise. The locusts, both
transplanted and growing naturally about the houses there, appeared to
flourish better than any other tree. There were thin belts of wood in
Wellfleet and Truro, a mile or more from the Atlantic, but, for the most
part, we could see the horizon through them, or, if extensive, the trees
were not large. Both oaks and pines had often the same flat look with
the apple-trees. Commonly, the oak woods twenty-five years old were a
mere scraggy shrubbery nine or ten feet high, and we could frequently
reach to their topmost leaf. Much that is called "woods" was about half
as high as this,--only patches of shrub-oak, bayberry, beach-plum, and
wild roses, overrun with woodbine. When the roses were in bloom, these
patches in the midst of the sand displayed such a profusion of blossoms,
mingled with the aroma of the bayberry, that no Italian or other
artificial rose-garden could equal them. They were perfectly Elysian,
and realized my idea of an oasis in the desert. Huckleberry-bushes were
very abundant, and the next summer they bore a remarkable quantity of
that kind of gall called Huckleberry-apple, forming quite handsome
though monstrous blossoms. But it must be added, that this shrubbery
swarmed with wood-ticks, sometimes very troublesome parasites, and which
it takes very horny fingers to crack.

[Illustration: A Truro footpath]

The inhabitants of these towns have a great regard for a tree, though
their standard for one is necessarily neither large nor high; and when
they tell you of the large trees that once grew here, you must think of
them, not as absolutely large, but large compared with the present
generation. Their "brave old oaks," of which they speak with so much
respect, and which they will point out to you as relics of the primitive
forest, one hundred or one hundred and fifty, ay, for aught they know,
two hundred years old, have a ridiculously dwarfish appearance, which
excites a smile in the beholder. The largest and most venerable which
they will show you in such a case are, perhaps, not more than twenty or
twenty-five feet high. I was especially amused by the Liliputian old
oaks in the south part of Truro. To the inexperienced eye, which
appreciated their proportions only, they might appear vast as the tree
which saved his royal majesty, but measured, they were dwarfed at once
almost into lichens which a deer might eat up in a morning. Yet they
will tell you that large schooners were once built of timber which grew
in Wellfleet. The old houses also are built of the timber of the Cape;
but instead of the forests in the midst of which they originally stood,
barren heaths, with poverty-grass for heather, now stretch away on every
side. The modern houses are built of what is called "dimension timber,"
_imported_ from Maine, all ready to be set up, so that commonly they do
not touch it again with an axe. Almost all the wood used for fuel is
imported by vessels or currents, and of course all the coal. I was told
that probably a quarter of the fuel and a considerable part of the
lumber used in North Truro was drift-wood. Many get _all_ their fuel from
the beach.

Of birds not found in the interior of the State,--at least in my
neighborhood,--I heard, in the summer, the Black-throated Bunting
(_Fringilla Americana_) amid the shrubbery, and in the open land the
Upland Plover (_Totanus Bartramius_), whose quivering notes were ever and
anon prolonged into a clear, somewhat plaintive, yet hawk-like scream,
which sounded at a very indefinite distance. The bird may have been in
the next field, though it sounded a mile off.

To-day we were walking through Truro, a town of about eighteen hundred
inhabitants. We had already come to Pamet River, which empties into the
Bay. This was the limit of the Pilgrims' journey up the Cape from
Provincetown, when seeking a place for settlement. It rises in a hollow
within a few rods of the Atlantic, and one who lives near its source
told us that in high tides the sea leaked through, yet the wind and
waves preserve intact the barrier between them, and thus the whole river
is steadily driven westward butt-end foremost,--fountain-head, channel,
and light-house at the mouth, all together.

Early in the afternoon we reached the Highland Light, whose white tower
we had seen rising out of the bank in front of us for the last mile or
two. It is fourteen miles from the Nauset Lights, on what is called the
Clay Pounds, an immense bed of clay abutting on the Atlantic, and, as
the keeper told us, stretching quite across the Cape, which is here only
about two miles wide. We perceived at once a difference in the soil, for
there was an interruption of the desert, and a slight appearance of a
sod under our feet, such as we had not seen for the last two days.

After arranging to lodge at the light-house, we rambled across the Cape
to the Bay, over a singularly bleak and barren-looking country,
consisting of rounded hills and hollows, called by geologists diluvial
elevations and depressions,--a kind of scenery which has been compared
to a chopped sea, though this suggests too sudden a transition. There is
a delineation of this very landscape in Hitchcock's Report on the
Geology of Massachusetts, a work which, by its size at least, reminds
one of a diluvial elevation itself. Looking southward from the
light-house, the Cape appeared like an elevated plateau, sloping very
regularly, though slightly, downward from the edge of the bank on the
Atlantic side, about one hundred and fifty feet above the ocean, to that
on the Bay side. On traversing this we found it to be interrupted by
broad valleys or gullies, which become the hollows in the bank when the
sea has worn up to them. They are commonly at right angles with the
shore, and often extend quite across the Cape. Some of the valleys,
however, are circular, a hundred feet deep without any outlet, as if the
Cape had sunk in those places, or its sands had run out. The few
scattered houses which we passed, being placed at the bottom of the
hollows for shelter and fertility, were, for the most part, concealed
entirely, as much as if they had been swallowed up in the earth. Even a
village with its meeting-house, which we had left little more than a
stone's throw behind, had sunk into the earth, spire and all, and we saw
only the surface of the upland and the sea on either hand. When
approaching it, we had mistaken the belfry for a summer-house on the
plain. We began to think that we might tumble into a village before we
were aware of it, as into an ant-lion's hole, and be drawn into the sand
irrecoverably. The most conspicuous objects on the land were a distant
windmill, or a meeting-house standing alone, for only they could afford
to occupy an exposed place. A great part of the township, however, is a
barren, heath-like plain, and perhaps one third of it lies in common,
though the property of individuals. The author of the old "Description
of Truro," speaking of the soil, says: "The snow, which would be of
essential service to it provided it lay level and covered the ground, is
blown into drifts and into the sea." This peculiar open country, with
here and there a patch of shrubbery, extends as much as seven miles, or
from Pamet River on the south to High Head on the north, and from Ocean
to Bay. To walk over it makes on a stranger such an impression as being
at sea, and he finds it impossible to estimate distances in any weather.
A windmill or a herd of cows may seem to be far away in the horizon,
yet, after going a few rods, he will be close upon them. He is also
deluded by other kinds of mirage. When, in the summer, I saw a family
a-blueberrying a mile off, walking about amid the dwarfish bushes which
did not come up higher than their ankles, they seemed to me to be a race
of giants, twenty feet high at least.

The highest and sandiest portion next the Atlantic was thinly covered
with Beach-grass and Indigo-weed. Next to this the surface of the upland
generally consisted of white sand and gravel, like coarse salt, through
which a scanty vegetation found its way up. It will give an
ornithologist some idea of its barrenness if I mention that the next
June, the month of grass. I found a night-hawk's eggs there, and that
almost any square rod thereabouts, taken at random, would be an eligible
site for such a deposit. The kildeer-plover, which loves a similar
locality, also drops its eggs there, and fills the air above with its
din. This upland also produced _Cladonia_ lichens, poverty-grass,
savory-leaved aster (_Diplopappus linariifolius_), mouse-ear, bear-berry,
&c. On a few hillsides the savory-leaved aster and mouse-ear alone made
quite a dense sward, said to be very pretty when the aster is in bloom.
In some parts the two species of poverty-grass (_Hudsonia tomentosa_ and
_ericoides_), which deserve a better name, reign for miles in little
hemispherical tufts or islets, like moss, scattered over the waste. They
linger in bloom there till the middle of July. Occasionally near the
beach these rounded beds, as also those of the sea-sandwort (_Honkenya
peploides_), were filled with sand within an inch of their tops, and were
hard, like large ant-hills, while the surrounding sand was soft. In
summer, if the poverty-grass grows at the head of a Hollow looking
toward the sea, in a bleak position where the wind rushes up, the
northern or exposed half of the tuft is sometimes all black and dead
like an oven-broom, while the opposite half is yellow with blossoms, the
whole hillside thus presenting a remarkable contrast when seen from the
poverty-stricken and the flourishing side. This plant, which in many
places would be esteemed an ornament, is here despised by many on
account of its being associated with barrenness. It might well be
adopted for the Barnstable coat-of-arms, in a field _sableux_. I should
be proud of it. Here and there were tracts of Beach-grass mingled with
the Sea-side Goldenrod and Beach-pea, which reminded us still more
forcibly of the ocean.

[Illustration: Truro meeting-house on the hill]

We read that there was not a brook in Truro. Yet there were deer here
once, which must often have panted in vain; but I am pretty sure that I
afterward saw a small fresh-water brook emptying into the south side of
Pamet River, though I was so heedless as not to taste it. At any rate, a
little boy near by told me that he drank at it. There was not a tree as
far as we could see, and that was many miles each way, the general level
of the upland being about the same everywhere. Even from the Atlantic
side we overlooked the Bay, and saw to Manomet Point in Plymouth, and
better from that side because it was the highest. The almost universal
bareness and smoothness of the landscape were as agreeable as novel,
making it so much the more like the deck of a vessel. We saw vessels
sailing south into the Bay, on the one hand, and north along the
Atlantic shore, on the other, all with an aft wind.

The single road which runs lengthwise the Cape, now winding over the
plain, now through the shrubbery which scrapes the wheels of the stage,
was a mere cart-track in the sand, commonly without any fences to
confine it, and continually changing from this side to that, to harder
ground, or sometimes to avoid the tide. But the inhabitants travel the
waste here and there pilgrim-wise and staff in hand, by narrow
footpaths, through which the sand flows out and reveals the nakedness of
the land. We shuddered at the thought of living there and taking our
afternoon walks over those barren swells, where we could overlook every
step of our walk before taking it, and would have to pray for a fog or a
snow-storm to conceal our destiny. The walker there must soon eat his
heart.

In the north part of the town there is no house from shore to shore for
several miles, and it is as wild and solitary as the Western
Prairies--used to be. Indeed, one who has seen every house in Truro will
be surprised to hear of the number of the inhabitants, but perhaps five
hundred of the men and boys of this small town were then abroad on their
fishing grounds. Only a few men stay at home to till the sand or watch
for blackfish. The farmers are fishermen-farmers and understand better
ploughing the sea than the land. They do not disturb their sands much,
though there is a plenty of sea-weed in the creeks, to say nothing of
blackfish occasionally rotting the shore. Between the Pond and East
Harbor Village there was an interesting plantation of pitch-pines,
twenty or thirty acres in extent, like those which we had already seen
from the stage. One who lived near said that the land was purchased by
two men for a shilling or twenty-five cents an acre. Some is not
considered worth writing a deed for. This soil or sand, which was
partially covered with poverty and beach grass, sorrel, &c., was
furrowed at intervals of about four feet and the seed dropped by a
machine. The pines had come up admirably and grown the first year three
or four inches, and the second six inches and more. Where the seed had
been lately planted the white sand was freshly exposed in an endless
furrow winding round and round the sides of the deep hollows, in a
vertical spiral manner, which produced a very singular effect, as if you
were looking into the reverse side of a vast banded shield. This
experiment, so important to the Cape, appeared very successful, and
perhaps the time will come when the greater part of this kind of land in
Barnstable County will be thus covered with an artificial pine forest,
as has been done in some parts of France. In that country 12,500 acres
of downs had been thus covered in 1811 near Bayonne. They are called
_pignadas_, and according to Loudon "constitute the principal riches of
the inhabitants, where there was a drifting desert before." It seemed a
nobler kind of grain to raise than corn even.

[Illustration: A herd of cows]

A few years ago Truro was remarkable among the Cape towns for the number
of sheep raised in it; but I was told that at this time only two men
kept sheep in the town, and in 1855, a Truro boy ten years old told me
that he had never seen one. They were formerly pastured on the unfenced
lands or general fields, but now the owners were more particular to
assert their rights, and it cost too much for fencing. The rails are
cedar from Maine, and two rails will answer for ordinary purposes, but
four are required for sheep. This was the reason assigned by one who had
formerly kept them for not keeping them any longer. Fencing stuff is so
expensive that I saw fences made with only one rail, and very often the
rail when split was carefully tied with a string. In one of the villages
I saw the next summer a cow tethered by a rope six rods long, the rope
long in proportion as the feed was short and thin. Sixty rods, ay, all
the cables of the Cape, would have been no more than fair. Tethered in
the desert for fear that she would get into Arabia Felix! I helped a man
weigh a bundle of hay which he was selling to his neighbor, holding one
end of a pole from which it swung by a steel-yard hook, and this was
just half his whole crop. In short, the country looked so barren that I
several times refrained from asking the inhabitants for a string or a
piece of wrapping-paper, for fear I should rob them, for they plainly
were obliged to import these things as well as rails, and where there
were no newsboys, I did not see what they would do for waste paper.

The objects around us, the make-shifts of fishermen ashore, often made
us look down to see if we were standing on terra firma. In the wells
everywhere a block and tackle were used to raise the bucket, instead of
a windlass, and by almost every house was laid up a spar or a plank or
two full of auger-holes, saved from a wreck. The windmills were partly
built of these, and they were worked into the public bridges. The
light-house keeper, who was having his barn shingled, told me casually
that he had made three thousand good shingles for that purpose out of a
mast. You would sometimes see an old oar used for a rail. Frequently
also some fair-weather finery ripped off a vessel by a storm near the
coast was nailed up against an outhouse. I saw fastened to a shed near
the lighthouse a long new sign with the words "ANGLO SAXON" on it in
large gilt letters, as if it were a useless part which the ship could
afford to lose, or which the sailors had discharged at the same time
with the pilot. But it interested somewhat as if it had been a part of
the Argo, clipped off in passing through the Symplegades.

To the fisherman, the Cape itself is a sort of store-ship laden with
supplies,--a safer and larger craft which carries the women and
children, the old men and the sick; and indeed sea-phrases are as
common on it as on board a vessel. Thus is it ever with a sea-going
people. The old Northmen used to speak of the "keel-ridge" of the
country, that is, the ridge of the Doffrafield Mountains, as if the land
were a boat turned bottom up. I was frequently reminded of the Northmen
here. The inhabitants of the Cape are often at once farmers and
sea-rovers; they are more than vikings or kings of the bays, for their
sway extends over the open sea also. A farmer in Wellfleet, at whose
house I afterward spent a night, who had raised fifty bushels of
potatoes the previous year, which is a large crop for the Cape, and had
extensive salt-works, pointed to his schooner, which lay in sight, in
which he and his man and boy occasionally ran down the coast a-trading
as far as the Capes of Virginia. This was his market-cart, and his hired
man knew how to steer her. Thus he drove two teams a-field,

    "ere the high _seas_ appeared
  Under the opening eyelids of the mom."

Though probably he would not hear much of the "gray fly" on his way to
Virginia.

A great proportion of the inhabitants of the Cape are always thus abroad
about their teaming on some ocean highway or other, and the history of
one of their ordinary trips would cast the Argonautic expedition into
the shade. I have just heard of a Cape Cod captain who was expected home
in the beginning of the winter from the West Indies, but was long since
given up for lost, till his relations at length have heard with joy,
that, after getting within forty miles of Cape Cod light, he was driven
back by nine successive gales to Key West, between Florida and Cuba, and
was once again shaping his course for home. Thus he spent his winter. In
ancient times the adventures of these two or three men and boys would
have been made the basis of a myth, but now such tales are crowded into
a line of shorthand signs, like an algebraic formula in the shipping
news. "Wherever over the world," said Palfrey in his oration at
Barnstable, "you see the stars and stripes floating, you may have good
hope that beneath them some one will be found who can tell you the
soundings of Barnstable, or Wellfleet, or Chatham Harbor."

I passed by the home of somebody's (or everybody's) Uncle Bill, one day
over on the Plymouth shore. It was a schooner half keeled-up on the mud:
we aroused the master out of a sound sleep at noonday, by thumping on
the bottom of his vessel till he presented himself at the hatchway, for
we wanted to borrow his clam-digger. Meaning to make him a call, I
looked out the next morning, and lo! he had run over to "the Pines" the
evening before, fearing an easterly storm. He outrode the _great_ gale in
the spring of 1851, dashing about alone in Plymouth Bay. He goes after
rockweed, lighters vessels, and saves wrecks. I still saw him lying in
the mud over at "the Pines" in the horizon, which place he could not
leave if he would till flood tide. But he would not then probably. This
waiting for the tide is a singular feature in life by the sea-shore. A
frequent answer is, "Well! you can't start for two hours yet." It is
something new to a landsman, and at first he is not disposed to wait.
History says that "two inhabitants of Truro were the first who
adventured to the Falkland Isles in pursuit of whales. This voyage was
undertaken in the year 1774, by the advice of Admiral Montague of the
British navy, and was crowned with success."

At the Pond Village we saw a pond three eighths of a mile long densely
filled with cat-tail flags, seven feet high,--enough for all the coopers
in New England.

[Illustration: Pond Village]

The western shore was nearly as sandy as the eastern, but the water was
much smoother, and the bottom was partially covered with the slender
grass-like seaweed (_Zostera_), which we had not seen on the Atlantic
side; there were also a few rude sheds for trying fish on the beach
there, which made it appear less wild. In the few marshes on this side
we afterward saw Samphire, Rosemary, and other plants new to us
inlanders.

In the summer and fall sometimes, hundreds of blackfish (the
Social Whale, _Globicephalus Melas_ of De Kay; called also Black
Whale-fish, Howling Whale, Bottlehead, etc.), fifteen feet or more in
length, are driven ashore in a single school here. I witnessed such a
scene in July, 1855. A carpenter who was working at the lighthouse
arriving early in the morning remarked that he did not know but he had
lost fifty dollars by coming to his work; for as he came along the Bay
side he heard them driving a school of blackfish ashore, and he had
debated with himself whether he should not go and join them and take his
share, but had concluded to come to his work. After breakfast I came
over to this place, about two miles distant, and near the beach met some
of the fishermen returning from their chase. Looking up and down the
shore, I could see about a mile south some large black masses on the
sand, which I knew must be blackfish, and a man or two about them. As I
walked along towards them I soon came to a huge carcass whose head was
gone and whose blubber had been stripped off some weeks before; the tide
was just beginning to move it, and the stench compelled me to go a long
way round. When I came to Great Hollow I found a fisherman and some boys
on the watch, and counted about thirty blackfish, just killed, with many
lance wounds, and the water was more or less bloody around. They were
partly on shore and partly in the water, held by a rope round their
tails till the tide should leave them. A boat had been somewhat stove by
the tail of one. They were a smooth shining black, like India-rubber,
and had remarkably simple and lumpish forms for animated creatures, with
a blunt round snout or head, whale-like, and simple stiff-looking
flippers. The largest were about fifteen feet long, but one or two were
only five feet long, and still without teeth. The fisherman slashed one
with his jackknife, to show me how thick the blubber was,--about three
inches; and as I passed my finger through the cut it was covered thick
with oil. The blubber looked like pork, and this man said that when they
were trying it the boys would sometimes come round with a piece of bread
in one hand, and take a piece of blubber in the other to eat with it,
preferring it to pork scraps. He also cut into the flesh beneath, which
was firm and red like beef, and he said that for his part he preferred
it when fresh to beef. It is stated that in 1812 blackfish were used as
food by the poor of Bretagne. They were waiting for the tide to leave
these fishes high and dry, that they might strip off the blubber and
carry it to their try-works in their boats, where they try it on the
beach. They get commonly a barrel of oil, worth fifteen or twenty
dollars, to a fish. There were many lances and harpoons in the
boats,--much slenderer instruments than I had expected. An old man came
along the beach with a horse and wagon distributing the dinners of the
fishermen, which their wives had put up in little pails and jugs, and
which he had collected in the Pond Village, and for this service, I
suppose, he received a share of the oil. If one could not tell his own
pail, he took the first he came to.

As I stood there they raised the cry of "another school," and we could
see their black backs and their blowing about a mile northward, as they
went leaping over the sea like horses. Some boats were already in
pursuit there, driving them toward the beach. Other fishermen and boys
running up began to jump into the boats and push them off from where I
stood, and I might have gone too had I chosen. Soon there were
twenty-five or thirty boats in pursuit, some large ones under sail, and
others rowing with might and main, keeping outside of the school, those
nearest to the fishes striking on the sides of their boats and blowing
horns to drive them on to the beach. It was an exciting race. If they
succeed in driving them ashore each boat takes one share, and then each
man, but if they are compelled to strike them off shore each boat's
company take what they strike. I walked rapidly along the shore toward
the north, while the fishermen were rowing still more swiftly to join
their companions, and a little boy who walked by my side was
congratulating himself that his father's boat was beating another one.
An old blind fisherman whom we met, inquired, "Where are they? I can't
see. Have they got them?" In the mean while the fishes had turned and
were escaping northward toward Provincetown, only occasionally the back
of one being seen. So the nearest crews were compelled to strike them,
and we saw several boats soon made fast, each to its fish, which, four
or five rods ahead, was drawing it like a race-horse straight toward the
beach, leaping half out of water, blowing blood and water from its hole,
and leaving a streak of foam behind. But they went ashore too far north
for us, though we could see the fishermen leap out and lance them on the
sand. It was just like pictures of whaling which I have seen, and a
fisherman told me that it was nearly as dangerous. In his first trial he
had been much excited, and in his haste had used a lance with its
scabbard on, but nevertheless had thrust it quite through his fish.

I learned that a few days before this one hundred and eighty blackfish
had been driven ashore in one school at Eastham, a little farther south,
and that the keeper of Billingsgate Point light went out one morning
about the same time and cut his initials on the backs of a large school
which had run ashore in the night, and sold his right to them to
Provincetown for one thousand dollars, and probably Provincetown made as
much more. Another fisherman told me that nineteen years ago three
hundred and eighty were driven ashore in one school at Great Hollow. In
the Naturalists' Library, it is said that, in the winter of 1809-10, one
thousand one hundred and ten "approached the shore of Hralfiord,
Iceland, and were captured." De Kay says it is not known why they are
stranded. But one fisherman declared to me that they ran ashore in
pursuit of squid, and that they generally came on the coast about the
last of July.

About a week afterward, when I came to this shore, it was strewn, as far
as I could see with a glass, with the carcasses of blackfish stripped of
their blubber and their heads cut off; the latter lying higher up.
Walking on the beach was out of the question on account of the stench.
Between Provincetown and Truro they lay in the very path of the stage.
Yet no steps were taken to abate the nuisance, and men were catching
lobsters as usual just off the shore. I was told that they did sometimes
tow them out and sink them; yet I wondered where they got the stones to
sink them with. Of course they might be made into guano, and Cape Cod is
not so fertile that her inhabitants can afford to do without this
manure,--to say nothing of the diseases they may produce.

After my return home, wishing to learn what was known about the
Blackfish, I had recourse to the reports of the zoological surveys of
the State, and I found that Storer had rightfully omitted it in his
Report on the Fishes, since it is not a fish; so I turned to Emmons's
Report of the Mammalia, but was surprised to find that the seals and
whales were omitted by him, because he had had no opportunity to observe
them. Considering how this State has risen and thriven by its
fisheries.--that the legislature which authorized the Zoological Survey
sat under the emblem of a codfish,--that Nantucket and New Bedford are
within our limits,--that an early riser may find a thousand or fifteen
hundred dollars' worth of blackfish on the shore in a morning,--that the
Pilgrims saw the Indians cutting up a blackfish on the shore at Eastham,
and called a part of that shore "Grampus Bay," from the number of
blackfish they found there, before they got to Plymouth,--and that from
that time to this these fishes have continued to enrich one or two
counties almost annually, and that their decaying carcasses were now
poisoning the air of one county for more than thirty miles,--I thought
it remarkable that neither the popular nor scientific name was to
be found in a report on our mammalia,--a catalogue of the productions of
our land and water.

We had here, as well as all across the Cape, a fair view of
Provincetown, five or six miles distant over the water toward the west,
under its shrubby sand-hills, with its harbor now full of vessels whose
masts mingled with the spires of its churches, and gave it the
appearance of a quite large seaport town.

The inhabitants of all the lower Cape towns enjoy thus the prospect of
two seas. Standing on the western or larboard shore, and looking; across
to where the distant mainland looms, they can say. This is Massachusetts
Bay; and then, after an hour's sauntering walk, they may stand on the
starboard side, beyond which no land is seen to loom, and say, This is
the Atlantic Ocean.

On our way back to the lighthouse, by whose white-washed tower we
steered as securely as the mariner by its light at night, we passed
through a graveyard, which apparently was saved from being blown away by
its slates, for they had enabled a thick bed of huckleberry-bushes to
root themselves amid the graves. We thought it would be worth the while
to read the epitaphs where so many were lost at sea; however, as not
only their lives, but commonly their bodies also, were lost or not
identified, there were fewer epitaphs of this sort than we expected,
though there were not a few. Their graveyard is the ocean. Near the
eastern side we started up a fox in a hollow, the only kind of wild
quadruped, if I except a skunk in a salt-marsh, that we saw in all our
walk (unless painted and box tortoises may be called quadrupeds). He was
a large, plump, shaggy fellow, like a yellow dog, with, as usual, a
white tip to his tail, and looked as if he fared well on the Cape. He
cantered away into the shrub-oaks and bayberry-bushes which chanced to
grow there, but were hardly high enough to conceal him. I saw another
the next summer leaping over the top of a beach-plum a little farther
north, a small arc of his course (which I trust is not yet run), from
which I endeavored in vain to calculate his whole orbit: there were too
many unknown attractions to be allowed for. I also saw the exuviae of a
third fast sinking into the sand, and added the skull to my collection.
Hence I concluded that they must be plenty thereabouts; but a traveller
may meet with more than an inhabitant, since he is more likely to take
an unfrequented route across the country. They told me that in some
years they died off in great numbers by a kind of madness, under the
effect of which they were seen whirling round and round as if in pursuit
of their tails. In Crantz's account of Greenland, he says: "They (the
foxes) live upon birds and their eggs, and, when they can't get them,
upon crowberries, mussels, crabs, and what the sea casts out."

Just before reaching the light-house, we saw the sun set in the
Bay,--for standing on that narrow Cape was, as I have said, like being
on the deck of a vessel, or rather at the masthead of a man-of-war,
thirty miles at sea, though we knew that at the same moment the sun was
setting behind our native hills, which were just below the horizon in
that direction. This sight drove everything else quite out of our heads,
and Homer and the Ocean came in again with a rush,--

  [Greek: En d epes Ôkeanô lamron phaos êelioio,]

the shining torch of the sun fell into the ocean.




VIII

THE HIGHLAND LIGHT

This light-house, known to mariners as the Cape Cod or Highland Light,
is one of our "primary sea-coast lights," and is usually the first seen
by those approaching the entrance of Massachusetts Bay from Europe. It
is forty-three miles from Cape Ann Light, and forty-one from Boston
Light. It stands about twenty rods from the edge of the bank, which is
here formed of clay. I borrowed the plane and square, level and
dividers, of a carpenter who was shingling a barn near by, and using one
of those shingles made of a mast, contrived a rude sort of quadrant,
with pins for sights and pivots, and got the angle of elevation of the
Bank opposite the light-house, and with a couple of cod-lines the length
of its slope, and so measured its height on the shingle. It rises one
hundred and ten feet above its immediate base, or about one hundred and
twenty-three feet above mean low water. Graham, who has carefully
surveyed the extremity of the Cape, makes it one hundred and thirty
feet. The mixed sand and clay lay at an angle of forty degrees with the
horizon, where I measured it, but the clay is generally much steeper. No
cow nor hen ever gets down it. Half a mile farther south the bank is
fifteen or twenty-five feet higher, and that appeared to be the highest
land in North Truro. Even this vast clay bank is fast wearing away.
Small streams of water trickling down it at intervals of two or three
rods, have left the intermediate clay in the form of steep Gothic roofs
fifty feet high or more, the ridges as sharp and rugged-looking as
rocks; and in one place the bank is curiously eaten out in the form of a
large semicircular crater.

[Illustration: Dragging a dory up on the beach]

According to the light-house keeper, the Cape is wasting here on both
sides, though most on the eastern. In some places it had lost many rods
within the last year, and, erelong, the light-house must be moved. We
calculated, _from his data_, how soon the Cape would be quite worn away at
this point, "for," said he, "I can remember sixty years back." We were
even more surprised at this last announcement,--that is, at the slow
waste of life and energy in our informant, for we had taken him to be
not more than forty,--than at the rapid wasting of the Cape, and we
thought that he stood a fair chance to outlive the former.

Between this October and June of the next year I found that the bank had
lost about forty feet in one place, opposite the light-house, and it was
cracked more than forty feet farther from the edge at the last date, the
shore being strewn with the recent rubbish. But I judged that generally
it was not wearing away here at the rate of more than six feet annually.
Any conclusions drawn from the observations of a few years or one
generation only are likely to prove false, and the Cape may balk
expectation by its durability. In some places even a wrecker's foot-path
down the bank lasts several years. One old inhabitant told us that when
the light-house was built, in 1798, it was calculated that it would
stand forty-five years, allowing the bank to waste one length of fence
each year, "but," said he, "there it is" (or rather another near the
same site, about twenty rods from the edge of the bank).

The sea is not gaining on the Cape everywhere, for one man told me of a
vessel wrecked long ago on the north of Provincetown whose "bones" (this
was his word) are still visible many rods within the present line of the
beach, half buried in sand. Perchance they lie alongside the timbers of
a whale. The general statement of the inhabitants is that the Cape is
wasting on both sides, but extending itself on particular points on the
south and west, as at Chatham and Monomoy Beaches, and at Billingsgate,
Long, and Race Points. James Freeman stated in his day that above three
miles had been added to Monomoy Beach during the previous fifty years,
and it is said to be still extending as fast as ever. A writer in the
Massachusetts Magazine, in the last century, tells us that "when the
English first settled upon the Cape, there was an island off Chatham, at
three leagues' distance, called Webbs' Island, containing twenty acres,
covered with red-cedar or savin. The inhabitants of Nantucket used to
carry wood from it"; but he adds that in his day a large rock alone
marked the spot, and the water was six fathoms deep there. The entrance
to Nauset Harbor, which was once in Eastham, has now travelled south
into Orleans. The islands in Wellfleet Harbor once formed a continuous
beach, though now small vessels pass between them. And so of many other
parts of this coast.

Perhaps what the Ocean takes from one part of the Cape it gives to
another,--robs Peter to pay Paul. On the eastern side the sea appears to
be everywhere encroaching on the land. Not only the land is undermined,
and its ruins carried off by currents, but the sand is blown from the
beach directly up the steep bank where it is one hundred and fifty feet
high, and covers the original surface there many feet deep. If you sit
on the edge you will have ocular demonstration of this by soon getting
your eyes full. Thus the bank preserves its height as fast as it is worn
away. This sand is steadily travelling westward at a rapid rate, "more
than a hundred yards," says one writer, within the memory of inhabitants
now living; so that in some places peat-meadows are buried deep under
the sand, and the peat is cut through it; and in one place a large
peat-meadow has made its appearance on the shore in the bank covered
many feet deep, and peat has been cut there. This accounts for that
great pebble of peat which we saw in the surf. The old oysterman had
told us that many years ago he lost a "crittur" by her being mired in a
swamp near the Atlantic side east of his house, and twenty years ago he
lost the swamp itself entirely, but has since seen signs of it appearing
on the beach. He also said that he had seen cedar stumps "as big as
cart-wheels"(!) on the bottom of the Bay, three miles off Billingsate
Point, when leaning over the side of his boat in pleasant weather, and
that that was dry land not long ago. Another told us that a log canoe
known to have been buried many years before on the Bay side at East
Harbor in Truro, where the Cape is extremely narrow, appeared at length
on the Atlantic side, the Cape having rolled over it, and an old woman
said,--"Now, you see, it is true what I told you, that the Cape is
moving."

The bars along the coast shift with every storm, and in many places
there is occasionally none at all. We ourselves observed the effect of a
single storm with a high tide in the night, in July, 1855. It moved the
sand on the beach opposite the light-house to the depth of six feet, and
three rods in width as far as we could see north and south, and carried
it bodily off no one knows exactly where, laying bare in one place a
large rock five feet high which was invisible before, and narrowing the
beach to that extent. There is usually, as I have said, no bathing on
the back-side of the Cape, on account of the undertow, but when we were
there last, the sea had, three months before, cast up a bar near this
lighthouse, two miles long and ten rods wide, over which the tide did
not flow, leaving a narrow cove, then a quarter of a mile long, between
it and the shore, which afforded excellent bathing. This cove had from
time to time been closed up as the bar travelled northward, in one
instance imprisoning four or five hundred whiting and cod, which died
there, and the water as often turned fresh, and finally gave place to
sand. This bar, the inhabitants assured us, might be wholly removed, and
the water six feet deep there in two or three days.

The light-house keeper said that when the wind blowed strong on to the
shore, the waves ate fast into the bank, but when it blowed off they
took no sand away; for in the former case the wind heaped up the surface
of the water next to the beach, and to preserve its equilibrium a strong
undertow immediately set back again into the sea which carried with it
the sand and whatever else was in the way, and left the beach hard to
walk on; but in the latter case the undertow set on and carried the sand
with it, so that it was particularly difficult for shipwrecked men to
get to land when the wind blowed on to the shore, but easier when it
blowed off. This undertow, meeting the next surface wave on the bar
which itself has made, forms part of the dam over which the latter
breaks, as over an upright wall. The sea thus plays with the land
holding a sand-bar in its mouth awhile before it swallows it, as a cat
plays with a mouse; but the fatal gripe is sure to come at last. The sea
sends its rapacious east wind to rob the land, but before the former has
got far with its prey, the land sends its honest west wind to recover
some of its own. But, according to Lieutenant Davis, the forms, extent,
and distribution of sand-bars and banks are principally determined, not
by winds and waves but by tides.

Our host said that you would be surprised if you were on the beach when
the wind blew a hurricane directly on to it, to see that none of the
drift-wood came ashore, but all was carried directly northward and
parallel with the shore as fast as a man can walk, by the inshore
current, which sets strongly in that direction at flood tide. The
strongest swimmers also are carried along with it, and never gain an
inch toward the beach. Even a large rock has been moved half a mile
northward along-the beach. He assured us that the sea was never still on
the back-side of the Cape, but ran commonly as high as your head, so
that a great part of the time you could not launch a boat there, and
even in the calmest weather the waves run six or eight feet up the
beach, though then you could get off on a plank. Champlain and
Pourtrincourt could not land here in 1606, on account of the swell (_la
houlle_), yet the savages came off to them in a canoe. In the Sieur de la
Borde's "Relation des Caraibes," my edition of which was published at
Amsterdam in 1711, at page 530 he says:--

"Couroumon a Caraibe, also a star [_i.e._ a god], makes the great _lames á
la mer_, and overturns canoes. _Lames á la mer_ are the long _vagues_ which
are not broken (_entrecoupées_), and such as one sees come to land all in
one piece, from one end of a beach to another, so that, however little
wind there may be, a shallop or a canoe could hardly land (_aborder
terre_) without turning over, or being filled with water."

But on the Bay side the water even at its edge is often as smooth and
still as in a pond. Commonly there are no boats used along this beach.
There was a boat belonging to the Highland Light which the next keeper
after he had been there a year had not launched, though he said that
there was good fishing just off the shore. Generally the Life Boats
cannot be used when needed. When the waves run very high it is
impossible to get a boat off, however skilfully you steer it, for it
will often be completely covered by the curving edge of the approaching
breaker as by an arch, and so filled with water, or it will be lifted up
by its bows, turned directly over backwards, and all the contents
spilled out. A spar thirty feet long is served in the same way.

I heard of a party who went off fishing back of Wellfleet some years
ago, in two boats, in calm weather, who, when they had laden their boats
with fish, and approached the land again, found such a swell breaking on
it, though there was no wind, that they were afraid to enter it. At
first they thought to pull for Provincetown, but night was coming on,
and that was many miles distant. Their case seemed a desperate one. As
often as they approached the shore and saw the terrible breakers that
intervened, they were deterred. In short, they were thoroughly
frightened. Finally, having thrown their fish overboard, those in one
boat chose a favorable opportunity, and succeeded, by skill and good
luck, in reaching the land, but they were unwilling to take the
responsibility of telling the others when to come in, and as the other
helmsman was inexperienced, their boat was swamped at once, yet all
managed to save themselves.

Much smaller waves soon make a boat "nail-sick," as the phrase is. The
keeper said that after a long and strong blow there would be three large
waves, each successively larger than the last, and then no large ones
for some time, and that, when they wished to land in a boat, they came
in on the last and largest wave. Sir Thomas Browne (as quoted in Brand's
Popular Antiquities, p. 372), on the subject of the tenth wave being
"greater or more dangerous than any other," after quoting Ovid,--

  "Qui venit hic fluctus, fluctus supereminet omnes
  Posterior nono est, undecimo que prior,"--

says, "Which, notwithstanding, is evidently false; nor can it be made
out either by observation either upon the shore or the ocean, as we have
with diligence explored in both. And surely in vain we expect regularity
in the waves of the sea, or in the particular motions thereof, as we may
in its general reciprocations, whose causes are constant, and effects
therefore correspondent; whereas its fluctuations are but motions
subservient, which winds, storms, shores, shelves, and every
interjacency, irregulates."

We read that the Clay Pounds, were so called "because vessels have had
the misfortune to be pounded against it in gales of wind," which we
regard as a doubtful derivation. There are small ponds here, upheld by
the clay, which were formerly called the Clay Pits. Perhaps this, or
Clay Ponds, is the origin of the name. Water is found in the clay quite
near the surface; but we heard of one man who had sunk a well in the
sand close by, "till he could see stars at noonday," without finding
any. Over this bare Highland the wind has full sweep. Even in July it
blows the wings over the heads of the young turkeys, which do not know
enough to head against it; and in gales the doors and windows are blown
in, and you must hold on to the lighthouse to prevent being blown into
the Atlantic. They who merely keep out on the beach in a storm in the
winter are sometimes rewarded by the Humane Society. If you would feel
the full force of a tempest, take up your residence on the top of Mount
Washington, or at the Highland Light, in Truro.

It was said in 1794 that more vessels were cast away on the east shore
of Truro than anywhere in Barnstable County. Notwithstanding that this
light-house has since been erected, after almost every storm we read of
one or more vessels wrecked here, and sometimes more than a dozen wrecks
are visible from this point at one time. The inhabitants hear the crash
of vessels going to pieces as they sit round their hearths, and they
commonly date from some memorable shipwreck. If the history of this
beach could be written from beginning to end, it would be a thrilling
page in the history of commerce.

Truro was settled in the year 1700 as _Dangerfield_. This was a very
appropriate name, for I afterward read on a monument in the graveyard,
near Pamet River, the following inscription:--

  Sacred
  to the memory of
  57 citizens of Truro,
  who were lost in seven
  vessels, which
  foundered at sea in
  the memorable gale
  of Oct. 3d, 1841.

Their names and ages by families were recorded on different sides of the
stone. They are said to have been lost on George's Bank, and I was told
that only one vessel drifted ashore on the backside of the Cape, with
the boys locked into the cabin and drowned. It is said that the homes of
all were "within a circuit of two miles." Twenty-eight inhabitants of
Dennis were lost in the same gale; and I read that "in one day,
immediately after this storm, nearly or quite one hundred bodies were
taken up and buried on Cape Cod." The Truro Insurance Company failed for
want of skippers to take charge of its vessels. But the surviving
inhabitants went a-fishing again the next year as usual. I found that it
would not do to speak of shipwrecks there, for almost every family has
lost some of its members at sea. "Who lives in that house?" I inquired.
"Three widows," was the reply. The stranger and the inhabitant view the
shore with very different eyes. The former may have come to see and
admire the ocean in a storm; but the latter looks on it as the scene
where his nearest relatives were wrecked. When I remarked to an old
wrecker partially blind, who was sitting on the edge of the bank smoking
a pipe, which he had just lit with a match of dried beach-grass, that I
supposed he liked to hear the sound of the surf, he answered: "No, I do
not like to hear the sound of the surf." He had lost at least one son in
"the memorable gale," and could tell many a tale of the shipwrecks which
he had witnessed there.

In the year 1717, a noted pirate named Bellamy was led on to the bar off
Wellfleet by the captain of a _snow_ which he had taken, to whom he had
offered his vessel again if he would pilot him into Provincetown Harbor.
Tradition says that the latter threw over a burning tar-barrel in the
night, which drifted ashore, and the pirates followed it. A storm coming
on, their whole fleet was wrecked, and more than a hundred dead bodies
lay along the shore. Six who escaped shipwreck were executed. "At times
to this day" (1793), says the historian of Wellfleet, "there are King
William and Queen Mary's coppers picked up, and pieces of silver called
cob-money. The violence of the seas moves the sands on the outer bar, so
that at times the iron caboose of the ship [that is, Bellamy's] at low
ebbs has been seen." Another tells us that, "For many years after this
shipwreck, a man of a very singular and frightful aspect used every
spring and autumn to be seen travelling on the Cape, who was supposed to
have been one of Bellamy's crew. The presumption is that he went to some
place where money had been secreted by the pirates, to get such a supply
as his exigencies required. When he died, many pieces of gold were found
in a girdle which he constantly wore."

[Illustration: An old wrecker at home]

As I was walking on the beach here in my last visit, looking for shells
and pebbles, just after that storm, which I have mentioned as moving the
sand to a great depth, not knowing but I might find some cob-money, I
did actually pick up a French crown piece, worth about a dollar and six
cents, near high-water mark, on the still moist sand, just under the
abrupt, caving base of the bank. It was of a dark slate color, and
looked like a flat pebble, but still bore a very distinct and handsome
head of Louis XV., and the usual legend on the reverse. _Sit Nomen Domini
Benedictum_ (Blessed be the Name of the Lord), a pleasing sentiment to
read in the sands of the sea-shore, whatever it might be stamped on, and
I also made out the date, 1741. Of course, I thought at first that it
was that same old button which I have found so many times, but my knife
soon showed the silver. Afterward, rambling on the bars at low tide, I
cheated my companion by holding up round shells (_Scutelloe_) between my
fingers, whereupon he quickly stripped and came off to me.

In the Revolution, a British ship of war called the Somerset was wrecked
near the Clay Pounds, and all on board, some hundreds in number, were
taken prisoners. My informant said that he had never seen any mention of
this in the histories, but that at any rate he knew of a silver watch,
which one of those prisoners by accident left there, which was still
going to tell the story. But this event is noticed by some writers.

The next summer I saw a sloop from Chatham dragging for anchors and
chains just oft' this shore. She had her boats out at the work while she
shuffled about on various tacks, and, when anything was found, drew up
to hoist it on board. It is a singular employment, at which men are
regularly hired and paid for their industry, to hunt to-day in pleasant
weather for anchors which have been lost,--the sunken faith and hope of
mariners, to which they trusted in vain; now, perchance, it is the rusty
one of some old pirate's ship or Norman fisherman, whose cable parted
here two hundred years ago; and now the best bower anchor of a Canton or
a California ship, which has gone about her business. If the roadsteads
of the spiritual ocean could be thus dragged, what rusty flukes of hope
deceived and parted chain-cables of faith might again be windlassed
aboard! enough to sink the finder's craft, or stock new navies to the
end of time. The bottom of the sea is strewn with anchors, some deeper
and some shallower, and alternately covered and uncovered by the sand,
perchance with a small length of iron cable still attached,--to which
where is the other end? So many unconcluded tales to be continued
another time. So, if we had diving-bells adapted to the spiritual deeps,
we should see anchors with their cables attached, as thick as eels in
vinegar, all wriggling vainly toward their holding-ground. But that is
not treasure for us which another man has lost; rather it is for us to
seek what no other man has found or can find,--not be Chatham men,
dragging for anchors.

The annals of this voracious beach! who could write them, unless it were
a shipwrecked sailor? How many who have seen it have seen it only in the
midst of danger and distress, the last strip of earth which their mortal
eyes beheld. Think of the amount of suffering which a single strand has
witnessed. The ancients would have represented it as a sea-monster with
open jaws, more terrible than Scylla and Charybdis. An inhabitant of
Truro told me that about a fortnight after the _St. John_ was wrecked at
Cohasset he found two bodies on the shore at the Clay Pounds. They were
those of a man, and a corpulent woman. The man had thick boots on,
though his head was off, but "it was alongside." It took the finder some
weeks to get over the sight. Perhaps they were man and wife, and whom
God had joined the ocean currents had not put asunder. Yet by what
slight accidents at first may they have been associated in their
drifting. Some of the bodies of those passengers were picked up far out
at sea, boxed up and sunk; some brought ashore and buried. There are
more consequences to a shipwreck than the underwriters notice. The Gulf
Stream may return some to their native shores, or drop them in some
out-of-the-way cave of Ocean, where time and the elements will write new
riddles with their bones.--But to return to land again.

In this bank, above the clay, I counted in the summer, two hundred holes
of the Bank Swallow within a space six rods long, and there were at
least one thousand old birds within three times that distance,
twittering over the surf. I had never associated them in my thoughts
with the beach before. One little boy who had been a-birds-nesting had
got eighty swallows' eggs for his share! Tell it not to the Humane
Society. There were many young birds on the clay beneath, which had
tumbled out and died. Also there were many Crow-blackbirds hopping about
in the dry fields, and the Upland Plover were breeding close by the
light-house. The keeper had once cut off one's wing while mowing, as she
sat on her eggs there. This is also a favorite resort for gunners in the
fall to shoot the Golden Plover. As around the shores of a pond are seen
devil's-needles, butterflies, etc., so here, to my surprise, I saw at
the same season great devil's-needles of a size proportionably larger,
or nearly as big as my finger, incessantly coasting up and down the edge
of the bank, and butterflies also were hovering over it, and I never saw
so many dorr-bugs and beetles of various kinds as strewed the beach.
They had apparently flown over the bank in the night, and could not get
up again, and some had perhaps fallen into the sea and were washed
ashore. They may have been in part attracted by the light-house lamps.

The Clay Pounds are a more fertile tract than usual. We saw some fine
patches of roots and corn here. As generally on the Cape, the plants had
little stalk or leaf, but ran remarkably to seed. The corn was hardly
more than half as high as in the interior, yet the ears were large and
full, and one farmer told us that he could raise forty bushels on an
acre without manure, and sixty with it. The heads of the rye also were
remarkably large. The Shadbush (_Amelanchier_), Beach Plums, and
Blueberries (_Vaccinium Pennsylvanicum_), like the apple-trees and oaks,
were very dwarfish, spreading over the sand, but at the same time very
fruitful. The blueberry was but an inch or two high, and its fruit often
rested on the ground, so that you did not suspect the presence of the
bushes, even on those bare hills, until you were treading on them. I
thought that this fertility must be owing mainly to the abundance of
moisture in the atmosphere, for I observed that what little grass there
was was remarkably laden with dew in the morning, and in summer dense
imprisoning fogs frequently last till midday, turning one's beard into a
wet napkin about his throat, and the oldest inhabitant may lose his way
within a stone's throw of his house or be obliged to follow the beach
for a guide. The brick house attached to the light-house was exceedingly
damp at that season, and, writing-paper lost all its stiffness in it. It
was impossible to dry your towel after bathing, or to press flowers
without their mildewing. The air was so moist that we rarely wished to
drink, though we could at all times taste the salt on our lips. Salt was
rarely used at table, and our host told us that his cattle invariably
refused it when it was offered them, they got so much with their grass
and at every breath, but he said that a sick horse or one just from the
country would sometimes take a hearty draught of salt water, and seemed
to like it and be the better for it.

It was surprising to see how much water was contained in the terminal
bud of the sea-side golden-rod, standing in the sand early in July, and
also how turnips, beets, carrots, etc., flourished even in pure sand. A
man travelling by the shore near there not long before us noticed
something green growing in the pure sand of the beach, just at
high-water mark, and on approaching found it to be a bed of beets
flourishing vigorously, probably from seed washed out of the _Franklin_.
Also beets and turnips came up in the sea-weed used for manure in many
parts of the Cape. This suggests how various plants may have been
dispersed over the world to distant islands and continents. Vessels,
with seeds in their cargoes, destined for particular ports, where
perhaps they were not needed, have been cast away on desolate islands,
and though their crews perished, some of their seeds have been
preserved. Out of many kinds a few would find a soil and climate adapted
to them, become naturalized, and perhaps drive out the native plants at
last, and so fit the land for the habitation of man. It is an ill wind
that blows nobody any good, and for the time lamentable shipwrecks may
thus contribute a new vegetable to a continent's stock, and prove on the
whole a lasting blessing to its inhabitants. Or winds and currents might
effect the same without the intervention of man. What indeed are the
various succulent plants which grow on the beach but such beds of beets
and turnips, sprung originally from seeds which perhaps were cast on the
waters for this end, though we do not know the _Franklin_ which they came
out of? In ancient times some Mr. Bell (?) was sailing this way in his
ark with seeds of rocket, salt-wort, sandwort, beachgrass, samphire,
bayberry, poverty-grass, etc., all nicely labelled with directions,
intending to establish a nursery somewhere; and did not a nursery get
established, though he thought that he had failed?

About the light-house I observed in the summer the pretty _Polygala
polygama_, spreading ray-wise flat on the ground, white pasture thistles
(_Cirsium pumilum_), and amid the shrubbery the _Smilax glauca_, which is
commonly said not to grow so far north; near the edge of the banks about
half a mile southward, the broom crow-berry (_Empetrum Conradii_), for
which Plymouth is the only locality in Massachusetts usually named,
forms pretty green mounds four or five feet in diameter by one foot
high,--soft, springy beds for the wayfarer. I saw it afterward in
Provincetown, but prettiest of all the scarlet pimpernel, or poor-man's
weather-glass (_Anagallis-arvensis_), greets you in fair weather on almost
every square yard of sand. From Yarmouth, I have received the _Chrysopsis
falcata_ (golden aster), and _Vaccinium stamineum_ (Deerberry or Squaw
Huckleberry), with fruit not edible, sometimes as large as a cranberry
(Sept. 7).

[Illustration: The Highland Light]

The Highland Light-house, [1] where we were staying, is a
substantial-looking building of brick, painted white, and surmounted by
an iron cap. Attached to it is the dwelling of the keeper, one story
high, also of brick, and built by government. As we were going to spend
the night in a light-house, we wished to make the most of so novel an
experience, and therefore told our host that we would like to accompany
him when he went to light up. At rather early candle-light he lighted a
small Japan lamp, allowing it to smoke rather more than we like on
ordinary occasions, and told us to follow him. He led the way first
through his bedroom, which was placed nearest to the light-house, and
then through a long, narrow, covered passage-way, between whitewashed
walls like a prison entry, into the lower part of the light-house, where
many great butts of oil were arranged around; thence we ascended by a
winding and open iron stairway, with a steadily increasing scent of oil
and lamp-smoke, to a trap-door in an iron floor, and through this into
the lantern. It was a neat building, with everything in apple-pie order,
and no danger of anything; rusting there for want of oil. The light
consisted of fifteen argand lamps, placed within smooth concave
reflectors twenty-one inches in diameter, and arranged in two horizontal
circles one above the other, facing every way excepting directly down
the Cape. These were surrounded, at a distance of two or three feet, by
large plate-glass windows, which defied the storms, with iron sashes, on
which rested the iron cap. All the iron work, except the floor, was
painted white. And thus the light-house was completed. We walked slowly
round in that narrow space as the keeper lighted each lamp in
succession, conversing with him at the same moment that many a sailor on
the deep witnessed the lighting of the Highland Light. His duty was to
fill and trim and light his lamps, and keep bright the reflectors. He
filled them every morning, and trimmed them commonly once in the course
of the night. He complained of the quality of the oil which was
furnished. This house consumes about eight hundred gallons in a year,
which cost not far from one dollar a gallon; but perhaps a few lives
would be saved if better oil were provided. Another light-house keeper
said that the same proportion of winter-strained oil was sent to the
southernmost light-house in the Union as to the most northern. Formerly,
when this light-house had windows with small and thin panes, a severe
storm would sometimes break the glass, and then they were obliged to put
up a wooden shutter in haste to save their lights and reflectors,--and
sometimes in tempests, when the mariner stood most in need of their
guidance, they had thus nearly converted the light-house into a dark
lantern, which emitted only a few feeble rays, and those commonly on the
land or lee side. He spoke of the anxiety and sense of responsibility
which he felt in cold and stormy nights in the winter; when he knew that
many a poor fellow was depending on him, and his lamps burned dimly, the
oil being chilled. Sometimes he was obliged to warm the oil in a kettle
in his house at midnight, and fill his lamps over again,--for he could
not have a fire in the light-house, it produced such a sweat on the
windows. His successor told me that he could not keep too hot a fire in
such a case. All this because the oil was poor. The government lighting
the mariners on its wintry coast with summer-strained oil, to save
expense! That were surely a summer-strained mercy.

This keeper's successor, who kindly entertained me the next year stated
that one extremely cold night, when this and all the neighboring lights
were burning summer oil, but he had been provident enough to reserve a
little winter oil against emergencies, he was waked up with anxiety, and
found that his oil was congealed, and his lights almost extinguished;
and when, after many hours' exertion, he had succeeded in replenishing
his reservoirs with winter oil at the wick end, and with difficulty had
made them burn, he looked out and found that the other lights in the
neighborhood, which were usually visible to him, had gone out, and he
heard afterward that the Pamet River and Billingsgate Lights also had
been extinguished.

Our host said that the frost, too, on the windows caused him much
trouble, and in sultry summer nights the moths covered them and dimmed
his lights; sometimes even small birds flew against the thick plate
glass, and were found on the ground beneath in the morning with their
necks broken. In the spring of 1855 he found nineteen small
yellow-birds, perhaps goldfinches or myrtle-birds, thus lying dead
around the light-house; and sometimes in the fall he had seen where a
golden plover had struck the glass in the night, and left the down and
the fatty part of its breast on it.

Thus he struggled, by every method, to keep his light shining before
men. Surely the light-house keeper has a responsible, if an easy,
office. When his lamp goes out, he goes out; or, at most, only one such
accident is pardoned.

I thought it a pity that some poor student did not live there, to profit
by all that light, since he would not rob the mariner. "Well," he said,
"I do sometimes come up here and read the newspaper when they are noisy
down below." Think of fifteen argand lamps to read the newspaper by!
Government oil!--light, enough, perchance, to read the Constitution by!
I thought that he should read nothing less than his Bible by that light.
I had a classmate who fitted for college by the lamps of a light-house,
which was more light, we think, than the University afforded.

When we had come down and walked a dozen rods from the light-house, we
found that we could not get the full strength of its light on the narrow
strip of land between it and the shore, being too low for the focus, and
we saw only so many feeble and rayless stars; but at forty rods inland
we could see to read, though we were still indebted to only one lamp.
Each reflector sent forth a separate "fan" of light,--one shone on the
windmill, and one in the hollow, while the intervening spaces were in
shadow. This light is said to be visible twenty nautical miles and more
from an observer fifteen feet above the level of the sea. We could see
the revolving light at Race Point, the end of the Cape, about nine miles
distant, and also the light on Long Point, at the entrance of
Provincetown Harbor, and one of the distant Plymouth Harbor Lights,
across the Bay, nearly in a range with the last, like a star in the
horizon. The keeper thought that the other Plymouth Light was concealed
by being exactly in a range with the Long Point Light. He told us that
the mariner was sometimes led astray by a mackerel fisher's lantern, who
was afraid of being run down in the night, or even by a cottager's
light, mistaking them for some well-known light on the coast, and, when
he discovered his mistake, was wont to curse the prudent fisher or the
wakeful cottager without reason.

Though it was once declared that Providence placed this mass of clay
here on purpose to erect a light-house on, the keeper said that the
light-house should have been erected half a mile farther south, where
the coast begins to bend, and where the light could be seen at the same
time with the Nauset Lights, and distinguished from them. They now talk
of building one there. It happens that the present one is the more
useless now, so near the extremity of the Cape, because other
light-houses have since been erected there.

Among the many regulations of the Light-house Board, hanging against the
wall here, many of them excellent, perhaps, if there were a regiment
stationed here to attend to them, there is one requiring the keeper to
keep an account of the number of vessels which pass his light during the
day. But there are a hundred vessels in sight at once, steering in all
directions, many on the very verge of the horizon, and he must have more
eyes than Argus, and be a good deal farther-sighted, to tell which are
passing his light. It is an employment in some respects best suited to
the habits of the gulls which coast up and down here, and circle over
the sea.

I was told by the next keeper, that on the 8th of June following, a
particularly clear and beautiful morning, he rose about half an hour
before sunrise, and having a little time to spare, for his custom was to
extinguish his lights at sunrise, walked down toward the shore to see
what he might find. When he got to the edge of the bank he looked up,
and, to his astonishment, saw the sun rising, and already part way above
the horizon. Thinking that his clock was wrong, he made haste back, and
though it was still too early by the clock, extinguished his lamps, and
when he had got through and come down, he looked out the window, and, to
his still greater astonishment, saw the sun just where it was before,
two-thirds above the horizon. He showed me where its rays fell on the
wall across the room. He proceeded to make a fire, and when he had done,
there was the sun still at the same height. Whereupon, not trusting to
his own eyes any longer, he called up his wife to look at it, and she
saw it also. There were vessels in sight on the ocean, and their crews,
too, he said, must have seen it, for its rays fell on them. It remained
at that height for about fifteen minutes by the clock, and then rose as
usual, and nothing else extraordinary happened during that day. Though
accustomed to the coast, he had never witnessed nor heard of such a
phenomenon before. I suggested that there might have been a cloud in the
horizon invisible to him, which rose with the sun, and his clock was
only as accurate as the average; or perhaps, as he denied the
possibility of this, it was such a looming of the sun as is said to
occur at Lake Superior and elsewhere. Sir John Franklin, for instance,
says in his Narrative, that when he was on the shore of the Polar Sea,
the horizontal refraction varied so much one morning that "the upper
limb of the sun twice appeared at the horizon before it finally rose."

He certainly must be a son of Aurora to whom the sun looms, when there
are so many millions to whom it _glooms_ rather, or who never see it till
an hour _after_ it has risen. But it behooves us old stagers to keep our
lamps trimmed and burning to the last, and not trust to the sun's
looming.

This keeper remarked that the centre of the flame should be exactly
opposite the centre of the reflectors, and that accordingly, if he was
not careful to turn down his wicks in the morning, the sun falling on
the reflectors on the south side of the building would set fire to them,
like a burning-glass, in the coldest day, and he would look up at noon
and see them all lighted! When your light is ready to give light, it is
readiest to receive it, and the sun will light it. His successor said
that he had never known them to blaze in such a case, but merely to
smoke.

I saw that this was a place of wonders. In a sea turn or shallow fog
while I was there the next summer, it being clear overhead, the edge of
the bank twenty rods distant, appeared like a mountain pasture in the
horizon. I was completely deceived by it, and I could then understand
why mariners sometimes ran ashore in such cases, especially in the
night, supposing it to be far away, though they could see the land. Once
since this, being in a large oyster boat two or three hundred miles from
here, in a dark night, when there was a thin veil of mist on land and
water, we came so near to running on to the land before our skipper was
aware of it, that the first warning was my hearing the sound of the surf
under my elbow. I could almost have jumped ashore, and we were obliged
to go about very suddenly to prevent striking. The distant light for
which we were steering, supposing it a light-house five or six miles
off, came through the cracks of a fisherman's bunk not more than six
rods distant.

The keeper entertained us handsomely in his solitary little ocean house.
He was a man of singular patience and intelligence, who, when our
queries struck him, rung as clear as a bell in response. The light-house
lamps a few feet distant shone full into my chamber, and made it as
bright as day, so I knew exactly how the Highland Light bore all that
night, and I was in no danger of being wrecked. Unlike the last, this
was as still as a summer night. I thought, as I lay there, half awake
and half asleep, looking upward through the window at the lights above
my head, how many sleepless eyes from far out on the Ocean
stream--mariners of all nations spinning their yarns through the various
watches of the night--were directed toward my couch.

[1] The light-house has since been rebuilt, and shows a _Fresnel_ light.




IX

THE SEA AND THE DESERT

The light-house lamps were still burning, though now with a silvery
lustre, when I rose to see the sun come out of the Ocean; for he still
rose eastward of us; but I was convinced that he must have come out of a
dry bed beyond that stream, though he seemed to come out of the water.

  "The sun once more touched the fields,
  Mounting to heaven from the fair flowing
  Deep-running Ocean."

Now we saw countless sails of mackerel fishers abroad on the deep, one
fleet in the north just pouring round the Cape, another standing down
toward Chatham, and our host's son went off to join some lagging member
of the first which had not yet left the Bay.

Before we left the light-house we were obliged to anoint our shoes
faithfully with tallow, for walking on the beach, in the salt water and
the sand, had turned them red and crisp. To counterbalance this, I have
remarked that the seashore, even where muddy, as it is not here, is
singularly clean; for notwithstanding the spattering of the water and
mud and squirting of the clams while walking to and from the boat, your
best black pants retain no stain nor dirt, such as they would acquire
from walking in the country.

We have heard that a few days after this, when the Provincetown Bank was
robbed, speedy emissaries from Provincetown made particular inquiries
concerning us at this light-house. Indeed, they traced us all the way
down the Cape, and concluded that we came by this unusual route down the
back-side and on foot, in order that we might discover a way to get off
with our booty when we had committed the robbery. The Cape is so long
and narrow, and so bare withal, that it is wellnigh impossible for a
stranger to visit it without the knowledge of its inhabitants generally,
unless he is wrecked on to it in the night. So, when this robbery
occurred, all their suspicions seem to have at once centred on us two
travellers who had just passed down it. If we had not chanced to leave
the Cape so soon, we should probably have been arrested. The real
robbers were two young men from Worcester County who travelled with a
centre-bit, and are said to have done their work very neatly. But the
only bank that we pried into was the great Cape Cod sand-bank, and we
robbed it only of an old French crown piece, some shells and pebbles,
and the materials of this story.

Again we took to the beach for another day (October 13), walking along
the shore of the resounding sea, determined to get it into us. We wished
to associate with the Ocean until it lost the pond-like look which it
wears to a country-man. We still thought that we could see the other
side. Its surface was still more sparkling than the day before, and we
beheld "the countless smilings of the ocean waves"; though some of them
were pretty broad grins, for still the wind blew and the billows broke
in foam along the beach. The nearest beach to us on the other side,
whither we looked, due east, was on the coast of Galicia, in Spain,
whose capital is Santiago, though by old poets' reckoning it should have
been Atlantis or the Hesperides; but heaven is found to be farther west
now. At first we were abreast of that part of Portugal _entre Douro e
Mino_, and then Galicia and the port of Pontevedra opened to us as we
walked along; but we did not enter, the breakers ran so high. The bold
headland of Cape Finisterre, a little north of east, jutted toward us
next, with its vain brag, for we flung back,--"Here is Cape Cod,--Cape
Land's-Beginning." A little indentation toward the north,--for the land
loomed to our imaginations by a common mirage,--we knew was the Bay of
Biscay, and we sang:--

  "There we lay, till next day.
    In the Bay of Biscay O!"

A little south of east was Palos, where Columbus weighed anchor, and
farther yet the pillars which Hercules set up; concerning which when we
inquired at the top of our voices what was written on them,--for we had
the morning sun in our faces, and could not see distinctly,--the
inhabitants shouted _Ne plus ultra_ (no more beyond), but the wind bore to
us the truth only, _plus ultra_ (more beyond), and over the Bay westward
was echoed _ultra_ (beyond). We spoke to them through the surf about the
Far West, the true Hesperia, [Greek: eô peras] or end of the day, the
This Side Sundown, where the sun was extinguished in the _Pacific_, and we
advised them to pull up stakes and plant those pillars of theirs on the
shore of California, whither all our folks were gone,--the only _ne_ plus
ultra now. Whereat they looked crestfallen on their cliffs, for we had
taken the wind out of all their sails.

We could not perceive that any of their leavings washed up here, though
we picked up a child's toy, a small dismantled boat, which may have been
lost at Pontevedra.

The Cape became narrower and narrower as we approached its wrist between
Truro and Provincetown, and the shore inclined more decidedly to the
west. At the head of East Harbor Creek, the Atlantic is separated but by
half a dozen rods of sand from the tide-waters of the Bay. From the Clay
Pounds the bank flatted off for the last ten miles to the extremity at
Race Point, though the highest parts, which are called "islands" from
their appearance at a distance on the sea, were still seventy or eighty
feet above the Atlantic, and afforded a good view of the latter, as well
as a constant view of the Bay, there being no trees nor a hill
sufficient to interrupt it. Also the sands began to invade the land more
and more, until finally they had entire possession from sea to sea, at
the narrowest part. For three or four miles between Truro and
Provincetown there were no inhabitants from shore to shore, and there
were but three or four houses for twice that distance.

As we plodded along, either by the edge of the ocean, where the sand was
rapidly drinking up the last wave that wet it, or over the sand-hills of
the bank, the mackerel fleet continued to pour round the Cape north of
us, ten or fifteen miles distant, in countless numbers, schooner after
schooner, till they made a city on the water. They were so thick that
many appeared to be afoul of one another; now all standing on this tack,
now on that. We saw how well the New-Englanders had followed up Captain
John Smith's suggestions with regard to the fisheries, made in 1616,--to
what a pitch they had carried "this contemptible trade of fish," as he
significantly styles it, and were now equal to the Hollanders whose
example he holds up for the English to emulate; notwithstanding that "in
this faculty," as he says, "the former are so naturalized, and of their
vents so certainly acquainted, as there is no likelihood they will ever
be paralleled, having two or three thousand busses, flat-bottoms,
sword-pinks, todes, and such like, that breeds them sailors, mariners,
soldiers, and merchants, never to be wrought out of that trade and fit
for any other." We thought that it would take all these names and more
to describe the numerous craft which we saw. Even then, some years
before our "renowned sires" with their "peerless dames" stepped on
Plymouth Rock, he wrote, "Newfoundland doth yearly freight neir eight
hundred sail of ships with a silly, lean, skinny, poor-john, and cor
fish," though all their supplies must be annually transported from
Europe. Why not plant a colony here then, and raise those supplies on
the spot? "Of all the four parts of the world," says he, "that I have
yet seen, not inhabited, could I have but means to transport a colony, I
would rather live here than anywhere. And if it did not maintain itself,
were we but once indifferently well fitted, let us starve." Then
"fishing before your doors," you "may every night sleep quietly ashore,
with good cheer and what fires you will, or, when you please, with your
wives and family." Already he anticipates "the new towns in New England
in memory of their old,"--and who knows what may be discovered in the
"heart and entrails" of the land, "seeing even the very edges," etc.,
etc.

[Illustration: Towing along shore]

All this has been accomplished, and more, and where is Holland now?
Verily the Dutch have taken it. There was no long interval between the
suggestion of Smith and the eulogy of Burke.

Still one after another the mackerel schooners hove in sight round the
head of the Cape, "whitening all the sea road," and we watched each one
for a moment with an undivided interest. It seemed a pretty sport. Here
in the country it is only a few idle boys or loafers that go a-fishing
on a rainy day; but there it appeared as if every able-bodied man and
helpful boy in the Bay had gone out on a pleasure excursion in their
yachts, and all would at last land and have a chowder on the Cape. The
gazetteer tells you gravely how many of the men and boys of these towns
are engaged in the whale, cod, and mackerel fishery, how many go to the
banks of Newfoundland, or the coast of Labrador, the Straits of Belle
Isle or the Bay of Chaleurs (Shalore the sailors call it); as if I were
to reckon up the number of boys in Concord who are engaged during the
summer in the perch, pickerel, bream, hornpout, and shiner fishery, of
which no one keeps the statistics,--though I think that it is pursued
with as much profit to the moral and intellectual man (or boy), and
certainly with less danger to the physical one.

One of my playmates, who was apprenticed to a printer, and was somewhat
of a wag, asked his master one afternoon if he might go a-fishing, and
his master consented. He was gone three months. When he came back, he
said that he had been to the Grand Banks, and went to setting type again
as if only an afternoon had intervened.

I confess I was surprised to find that so many men spent their whole
day, ay, their whole lives almost, a-fishing. It is remarkable what a
serious business men make of getting their dinners, and how universally
shiftlessness and a grovelling taste take refuge in a merely ant-like
industry. Better go without your dinner, I thought, than be thus
everlastingly fishing for it like a cormorant. Of course, _viewed from
the shore_, our pursuits in the country appear not a whit less frivolous.

I once sailed three miles on a mackerel cruise myself. It was a Sunday
evening after a very warm day in which there had been frequent
thunder-showers, and I had walked along the shore from Cohasset to
Duxbury. I wished to get over from the last place to Clark's Island, but
no boat could stir, they said, at that stage of the tide, they being
left high on the mud. At length I learned that the tavern-keeper,
Winsor, was going out mackerelling with seven men that evening, and
would take me. When there had been due delay, we one after another
straggled down to the shore in a leisurely manner, as if waiting for the
tide still, and in India-rubber boots, or carrying our shoes in our
hands, waded to the boats, each of the crew bearing an armful of wood,
and one a bucket of new potatoes besides. Then they resolved that each
should bring one more armful of wood, and that would be enough. They had
already got a barrel of water, and had some more in the schooner. We
shoved the boats a dozen rods over the mud and water till they floated,
then rowing half a mile to the vessel climbed aboard, and there we were
in a mackerel schooner, a fine stout vessel of forty-three tons, whose
name I forget. The baits were not dry on the hooks. There was the mill
in which they ground the mackerel, and the trough to hold it, and the
long-handled dipper to cast it overboard with; and already in the harbor
we saw the surface rippled with schools of small mackerel, the real
_Scomber vernalis_. The crew proceeded leisurely to weigh anchor and raise
their two sails, there being a fair but very slight wind;--and the sun
now setting clear and shining on the vessel after the thundershowers, I
thought that I could not have commenced the voyage under more favorable
auspices. They had four dories and commonly fished in them, else they
fished on the starboard side aft where their fines hung ready, two to a
man. The boom swung round once or twice, and Winsor cast overboard the
foul juice of mackerel mixed with rain-water which remained in his
trough, and then we gathered about the helmsman and told stories. I
remember that the compass was affected by iron in its neighborhood and
varied a few degrees. There was one among us just returned from
California, who was now going as passenger for his health and
amusement. They expected to be gone about a week, to begin fishing the
next morning, and to carry their fish fresh to Boston. They landed me at
Clark's Island, where the Pilgrims landed, for my companions wished to
get some milk for the voyage. But I had seen the whole of it. The rest
was only going to sea and catching the mackerel. Moreover, it was as
well that I did not remain with them, considering the small quantity of
supplies they had taken.

Now I saw the mackerel fleet _on its fishing-ground_, though I was not at
first aware of it. So my experience was complete.

It was even more cold and windy to-day than before, and we were
frequently glad to take shelter behind a sand-hill. None of the elements
were resting. On the beach there is a ceaseless activity, always
something going on, in storm and in calm, winter and summer, night and
day. Even the sedentary man here enjoys a breadth of view which is
almost equivalent to motion. In clear weather the laziest may look
across the Bay as far as Plymouth at a glance, or over the Atlantic as
far as human vision reaches, merely raising his eyelids; or if he is too
lazy to look after all, he can hardly help hearing the ceaseless dash
and roar of the breakers. The restless ocean may at any moment cast up a
whale or a wrecked vessel at your feet. All the reporters in the world,
the most rapid stenographers, could not report the news it brings. No
creature could move slowly where there was so much life around. The few
wreckers were either going or coming, and the ships and the sand-pipers,
and the screaming gulls overhead; nothing stood still but the shore. The
little beach-birds trotted past close to the water's edge, or paused but
an instant to swallow their food, keeping time with the elements. I
wondered how they ever got used to the sea, that they ventured so near
the waves. Such tiny inhabitants the land brought forth! except one fox.
And what could a fox do, looking on the Atlantic from that high bank?
What is the sea to a fox? Sometimes we met a wrecker with his cart and
dog,--and his dog's faint bark at us wayfarers, heard through the
roaring of the surf, sounded ridiculously faint. To see a little
trembling dainty-footed cur stand on the margin of the ocean, and
ineffectually bark at a beach-bird, amid the roar of the Atlantic! Come
with design to bark at a whale, perchance! That sound will do for
farmyards. All the dogs looked out of place there, naked and as if
shuddering at the vastness; and I thought that they would not have been
there had it not been for the countenance of their masters. Still less
could you think of a cat bending her steps that way, and shaking her wet
foot over the Atlantic; yet even this happens sometimes, they tell me.
In summer I saw the tender young of the Piping Plover, like chickens
just hatched, mere pinches of down on two legs, running in troops, with
a faint peep, along the edge of the waves. I used to see packs of
half-wild dogs haunting the lonely beach on the south shore of Staten
Island, in New York Bay, for the sake of the carrion there cast up; and
I remember that once, when for a long time I had heard a furious barking
in the tall grass of the marsh, a pack of half a dozen large dogs burst
forth on to the beach, pursuing a little one which ran straight to me
for protection, and I afforded it with some stones, though at some risk
to myself; but the next day the little one was the first to bark at me.
under these circumstances I could not but remember the words of the
poet:--

  "Blow, blow, thou winter wind,
  Thou art not so unkind
    As _his_ ingratitude;
  Thy tooth is not so keen,
  Because thou art not seen,
    Although thy breath be rude.

  "Freeze, freeze, thou bitter sky,
   Thou dost not bite so nigh
    As benefits forgot;
  Though thou the waters warp,
  Thy sting is not so sharp
    As friend remembered not."

Sometimes, when I was approaching the carcass of a horse or ox which lay
on the beach there, where there was no living creature in sight, a dog
would unexpectedly emerge from it and slink away with a mouthful of
offal.

The sea-shore is a sort of neutral ground, a most advantageous point
from which to contemplate this world. It is even a trivial place. The
waves forever rolling to the land are too far-travelled and untamable to
be familiar. Creeping along the endless beach amid the sun-squall and
the foam, it occurs to us that we, too, are the product of sea-slime.

It is a wild, rank place, and there is no flattery in it. Strewn with
crabs, horse-shoes, and razor-clams, and whatever the sea casts up,--a
vast _morgue_, where famished dogs may range in packs, and crows come
daily to glean the pittance which the tide leaves them. The carcasses of
men and beasts together lie stately up upon its shelf, rotting and
bleaching in the sun and waves, and each tide turns them in their beds,
and tucks fresh sand under them. There is naked Nature, inhumanly
sincere, wasting no thought on man, nibbling at the cliffy shore where
gulls wheel amid the spray.

We saw this forenoon what, at a distance, looked like a bleached log
with a branch still left on it. It proved to be one of the principal
bones of a whale, whose carcass, having been stripped of blubber at sea
and cut adrift, had been washed up some months before. It chanced that
this was the most conclusive evidence which we met with to prove, what
the Copenhagen antiquaries assert, that these shores were the
_Furdustrandas_ which Thorhall, the companion of Thorfinn during his
expedition to Vinland in 1007. sailed past in disgust. It appears that
after they had left the Cape and explored the country about
Straum-Fiordr (Buzzards' Bay!), Thorhall, who was disappointed at not
getting any wine to drink there, determined to sail north again in
search of Vinland. Though the antiquaries have given us the original
Icelandic. I prefer to quote their translation, since theirs is the only
Latin which I know to have been aimed at Cape Cod.

  "Cum parati erant, sublato
  velo, cecinit Thorhallus:
  Eò redeamus, ubi conterranei
  sunt nostri! faciamus aliter,
  expansi arenosi peritum,
  lata navis explorare curricula:
  dum procellam incitantes gladii
  moræ impatientes, qui terram
  collaudant, Furdustrandas
  inhabitant et coquunt balænas."

In other words: "When they were ready and their sail hoisted, Thorhall
sang: Let us return thither where our fellow-countrymen are. Let us make
a bird [1] skilful to fly through the heaven of sand, [2] to explore the
broad track of ships; while warriors who impel to the tempest of swords,
[3] who praise the land, inhabit Wonder-Strands, _and cook whales_.'" And
so he sailed north past Cape Cod, as the antiquaries say, "and was
shipwrecked on to Ireland."

Though once there were more whales cast up here, I think that it was
never more wild than now. We do not associate the idea of antiquity with
the ocean, nor wonder how it looked a thousand years ago, as we do of
the land, for it was equally wild and unfathomable always. The Indians
have left no traces on its surface, but it is the same to the civilized
man and the savage. The aspect of the shore only has changed. The ocean
is a wilderness reaching round the globe, wilder than a Bengal jungle,
and fuller of monsters, washing the very wharves of our cities and the
gardens of our sea-side residences. Serpents, bears, hyenas, tigers,
rapidly vanish as civilization advances, but the most populous and
civilized city cannot scare a shark far from its wharves. It is no
further advanced than Singapore, with its tigers, in this respect. The
Boston papers had never told me that there were seals in the harbor. I
had always associated these with the Esquimaux and other outlandish
people. Yet from the parlor windows all along the coast you may see
families of them sporting on the flats. They were as strange to me as
the merman would be. Ladies who never walk in the woods, sail over the
sea. To go to sea! Why, it is to have the experience of Noah,--to
realize the deluge. Every vessel is an ark.

We saw no fences as we walked the beach, no birchen _riders_, highest of
rails, projecting into the sea to keep the cows from wading round,
nothing to remind us that man was proprietor of the shore. Yet a Truro
man did tell us that owners of land on the east side of that town were
regarded as owning the beach, in order that they might have the control
of it so far as to defend themselves against the encroachments of the
sand and the beach-grass,--for even this friend is sometimes regarded as
a foe; but he said that this was not the case on the Bay side. Also I
have seen in sheltered parts of the Bay temporary fences running to
low-water mark, the posts being set in sills or sleepers placed
transversely.

After we had been walking many hours, the mackerel fleet still hovered
in the northern horizon nearly in the same direction, but farther off,
hull down. Though their sails were set they never sailed away, nor yet
came to anchor, but stood on various tacks as close together as vessels
in a haven, and we in our ignorance thought that they were contending
patiently with adverse winds, beating eastward; but we learned afterward
that they were even then on their fishing-ground, and that they caught
mackerel without taking in their mainsails or coming to anchor, "a smart
breeze" (thence called a mackerel breeze) "being," as one says,
"considered most favorable" for this purpose. We counted about two
hundred sail of mackerel fishers within one small arc of the horizon,
and a nearly equal number had disappeared southward. Thus they hovered
about the extremity of the Cape, like moths round a candle; the lights
at Race Point and Long Point being bright candles for them at
night,--and at this distance they looked fair and white, as if they had
not yet flown into the light, but nearer at hand afterward, we saw how
some had formerly singed their wings and bodies.

A village seems thus, where its able-bodied men are all ploughing the
ocean together, as a common field. In North Truro the women and girls
may sit at their doors, and see where their husbands and brothers are
harvesting their mackerel fifteen or twenty miles off, on the sea, with
hundreds of white harvest wagons, just as in the country the farmers'
wives sometimes see their husbands working in a distant hillside field.
But the sound of no dinner-horn can reach the fisher's ear.

Having passed the narrowest part of the waist of the Cape, though still
in Truro, for this township is about twelve miles long on the shore, we
crossed over to the Bay side, not half a mile distant, in order to spend
the noon on the nearest shrubby sand-hill in Provincetown, called Mount
Ararat, which rises one hundred feet above the ocean. On our way thither
we had occasion to admire the various beautiful forms and colors of the
sand, and we noticed an interesting mirage, which I have since found
that Hitchcock also observed on the sands of the Cape. We were crossing
a shallow valley in the Desert, where the smooth and spotless sand
sloped upward by a small angle to the horizon on every side, and at the
lowest part was a long chain of clear but shallow pools. As we were
approaching these for a drink in a diagonal direction across the valley,
they appeared inclined at a slight but decided angle to the horizon,
though they were plainly and broadly connected with one another, and
there was not the least ripple to suggest a current; so that by the time
we had reached a convenient part of one we seemed to have ascended
several feet. They appeared to lie by magic on the side of the vale,
like a mirror left in a slanting position. It was a very pretty mirage
for a Provincetown desert, but not amounting to what, in Sanscrit, is
called "the thirst of the gazelle," as there was real water here for a
base, and we were able to quench our thirst after all.

Professor Rafn, of Copenhagen, thinks that the mirage which I noticed,
but which an old inhabitant of Provincetown, to whom I mentioned it, had
never seen nor heard of, had something to do with the name
"Furdustrandas," i.e. Wonder-Strands, given, as I have said, in the old
Icelandic account of Thorfinn's expedition to Vinland in the year 1007,
to a part of the coast on which he landed. But these sands are more
remarkable for their length than for their mirage, which is common to
all deserts, and the reason for the name which the Northmen them-selves
give,--"because it took a long time to sail by them,"--is sufficient and
more applicable to these shores. However, if you should sail all the way
from Greenland to Buzzards' Bay along the coast, you would get sight of
a good many sandy beaches. But whether Thorfinn saw the mirage here or
not, Thor-eau, one of the same family, did; and perchance it was because
Lief the Lucky had, in a previous voyage, taken Thor-er and his people
off the rock in the middle of the sea, that Thor-eau was born to see it.

This was not the only mirage which I saw on the Cape. That half of the
beach next the bank is commonly level, or nearly so, while the other
slopes downward to the water. As I was walking upon the edge of the bank
in Wellfleet at sundown, it seemed to me that the inside half of the
beach sloped upward toward the water to meet the other, forming a ridge
ten or twelve feet high the whole length of the shore, but higher always
opposite to where I stood; and I was not convinced of the contrary till
I descended the bank, though the shaded outlines left by the waves of a
previous tide but half-way down the apparent declivity might have taught
me better. A stranger may easily detect what is strange to the oldest
inhabitant, for the strange is his province. The old oysterman, speaking
of gull-shooting, had said that you must aim under, when firing down
the bank.

A neighbor tells me that one August, looking through a glass from
Naushon to some vessels which were sailing along near Martha's Vineyard,
the water about them appeared perfectly smooth, so that they were
reflected in it, and yet their full sails proved that it must be
rippled, and they who were with him thought that it was mirage, _i.e._ a
reflection from a haze.

From the above-mentioned sand-hill we over-looked Provincetown and its
harbor, now emptied of vessels, and also a wide expanse of ocean. As we
did not wish to enter Provincetown before night, though it was cold and
windy, we returned across the Deserts to the Atlantic side, and walked
along the beach again nearly to Race Point, being still greedy of the
sea influence. All the while it was not so calm as the reader may
suppose, but it was blow, blow, blow,--roar, roar, roar,--tramp, tramp,
tramp,--without interruption. The shore now trended nearly east and
west.

Before sunset, having already seen the mackerel fleet returning into the
Bay, we left the sea-shore on the north of Provincetown, and made our
way across the Desert to the eastern extremity of the town. From the
first high sand-hill, covered with beach-grass and bushes to its top, on
the edge of the desert, we overlooked the shrubby hill and swamp country
which surrounds Provincetown on the north, and protects it, in some
measure, from the invading sand. Notwithstanding the universal
barrenness, and the contiguity of the desert, I never saw an autumnal
landscape so beautifully painted as this was. It was like the richest
rug imaginable spread over an uneven surface; no damask nor velvet, nor
Tyrian dye or stuffs, nor the work of any loom, could ever match it.
There was the incredibly bright red of the Huckleberry, and the reddish
brown of the Bayberry, mingled with the bright and living green of small
Pitch-Pines, and also the duller green of the Bayberry, Boxberry, and
Plum, the yellowish green of the Shrub-oaks, and the various golden and
yellow and fawn-colored tints of the Birch and Maple and Aspen,--each
making its own figure, and, in the midst, the few yellow sand-slides on
the sides of the hills looked like the white floor seen through rents in
the rug. Coming from the country as I did, and many autumnal woods as I
had seen, this was perhaps the most novel and remarkable sight that I
saw on the Cape. Probably the brightness of the tints was enhanced by
contrast with the sand which surrounded this tract. This was a part of
the furniture of Cape Cod. We had for days walked up the long and bleak
piazza which runs along her Atlantic side, then over the sanded floor of
her halls, and now we were being introduced into her boudoir. The
hundred white sails crowding round Long Point into Provincetown Harbor,
seen over the painted hills in front, looked like toy ships upon a
mantel-piece.

The peculiarity of this autumnal landscape consisted in the lowness and
thickness of the shrubbery, no less than in the brightness of the tints.
It was like a thick stuff of worsted or a fleece, and looked as if a
giant could take it up by the hem, or rather the tasselled fringe which
trailed out on the sand, and shake it, though it needed not to be
shaken. But no doubt the dust would fly in that case, for not a little
has accumulated underneath it. Was it not such an autumnal landscape as
this which suggested our high-colored rugs and carpets? Hereafter when I
look on a richer rug than usual, and study its figures, I shall think,
there are the huckleberry hills, and there the denser swamps of boxberry
and blueberry: there the shrub-oak patches and the bayberries, there the
maples and the birches and the pines. What other dyes are to be
compared to these? They were warmer colors than I had associated with
the New England coast.

After threading a swamp full of boxberry, and climbing several hills
covered with shrub-oaks, without a path, where shipwrecked men would be
in danger of perishing in the night, we came down upon the eastern
extremity of the four planks which run the whole length of Provincetown
street. This, which is the last town on the Cape, lies mainly in one
street along the curving beach fronting the southeast. The sand-hills,
covered with shrubbery and interposed with swamps and ponds, rose
immediately behind it in the form of a crescent, which is from half a
mile to a mile or more wide in the middle, and beyond these is the
desert, which is the greater part of its territory, stretching to the
sea on the east and west and north. The town is compactly built in the
narrow space, from ten to fifty rods deep, between the harbor and the
sand-hills, and contained at that time about twenty-six hundred
inhabitants. The houses, in which a more modern and pretending style has
at length prevailed over the fisherman's hut, stand on the inner or
plank side of the street, and the fish and store houses, with the
picturesque-looking windmills of the Salt-works, on the water side. The
narrow portion of the beach between, forming the street, about eighteen
feet wide, the only one where one carriage could pass another, if there
was more than one carriage in the town, looked much "heavier" than any
portion of the beach or the desert which we had walked on, it being
above the reach of the highest tide, and the sand being kept loose by
the occasional passage of a traveller. We learned that the four planks
on which we were walking had been bought by the town's share of the
Surplus Revenue, the disposition of which was a bone of contention
between the inhabitants, till they wisely resolved thus to put it under
foot. Yet some, it was said, were so provoked because they did not
receive their particular share in money, that they persisted in walking
in the sand a long time after the sidewalk was built. This is the only
instance which I happen to know in which the surplus revenue proved a
blessing to any town. A surplus revenue of dollars from the treasury to
stem the greater evil of a surplus revenue of sand from the ocean. They
expected to make a hard road by the time these planks were worn out.
Indeed, they have already done so since we were there, and have almost
forgotten their sandy baptism.

As we passed along we observed the inhabitants engaged in curing either
fish or the coarse salt hay which they had brought home and spread on
the beach before their doors, looking as yellow as if they had raked it
out of the sea. The front-yard plots appeared like what indeed they
were, portions of the beach fenced in, with Beach-grass growing in them,
as if they were sometimes covered by the tide. You might still pick up
shells and pebbles there. There were a few trees among the houses,
especially silver abeles, willows, and balm-of-Gileads; and one man
showed me a young oak which he had transplanted from behind the town,
thinking it an apple-tree. But every man to his trade. Though he had
little woodcraft, he was not the less weatherwise, and gave us one piece
of information; viz., he had observed that when a thunder-cloud came up
with a flood-tide it did not rain. This was the most completely maritime
town that we were ever in. It was merely a good harbor, surrounded by
land dry, if not firm,--an inhabited beach, whereon fishermen cured and
stored their fish, without any back country. When ashore the inhabitants
still walk on planks. A few small patches have been reclaimed from the
swamps, containing commonly half a dozen square rods only each. We saw
one which was fenced with four lengths of rail; also a fence made wholly
of hogshead-staves stuck in the ground. These, and such as these, were
all the cultivated and cultivable land in Provincetown. We were told
that there were thirty or forty acres in all, but we did not discover a
quarter part so much, and that was well dusted with sand, and looked as
if the desert was claiming it. They are now turning some of their swamps
into Cranberry Meadows on quite an extensive scale.

[Illustration: A cranberry meadow]

Yet far from being out of the way. Provincetown is directly in the way
of the navigator, and he is lucky who does not run afoul of it in the
dark. It is situated on one of the highways of commerce, and men from
all parts of the globe touch there in the course of a year.

The mackerel fleet had nearly all got in before us, it being Saturday
night, excepting that division which had stood down towards Chatham in
the morning; and from a hill where we went to see the sun set in the Bay
we counted two hundred goodly looking schooners at anchor in the harbor
at various distances from the shore, and more were yet coming round the
Cape. As each came to anchor, it took in sail and swung round in the
wind, and lowered its boat. They belonged chiefly to Wellfleet, Truro,
and Cape Ann. This was that city of canvas which we had seen hull down
in the horizon. Near at hand, and under bare poles, they were
unexpectedly black-looking vessels, [Greek: melaiuai nêes.] A
fisherman told us that there were fifteen hundred vessels in the
mackerel fleet, and that he had counted three hundred and fifty in
Provincetown Harbor at one time. Being obliged to anchor at a
considerable distance from the shore on account of the shallowness of
the water, they made the impression of a larger fleet than the vessels
at the wharves of a large city. As they had been manoeuvring out there
all day seemingly for our entertainment, while we were walking
north-westward along the Atlantic, so now we found them flocking into
Provincetown Harbor at night, just as we arrived, as if to meet us, and
exhibit themselves close at hand. Standing by Race Point and Long Point
with various speed, they reminded me of fowls coming home to roost.

These were genuine New England vessels. It is stated in the Journal of
Moses Prince, a brother of the annalist, under date of 1721, at which
time he visited Gloucester, that the first vessel of the class called
schooner was built at Gloucester about eight years before, by Andrew
Robinson; and late in the same century one Cotton Tufts gives us the
tradition with some particulars, which he learned on a visit to the same
place. According to the latter, Robinson having constructed a vessel
which he masted and rigged in a peculiar manner, on her going off the
stocks a bystander cried out, "_O, how she scoons!_" whereat Robinson
replied, "_A schooner let her be!_" "From which time," says Tufts,
"vessels thus masted and rigged have gone by the name of schooners;
before which, vessels of this description were not known in Europe."
(See Mass. Hist. Coll., Vol. IX., 1st Series, and Vol. I., 4th Series.)
Yet I can hardly believe this, for a schooner has always seemed to
me--the typical vessel.

According to C. E. Potter of Manchester, New Hampshire, the very word
_schooner_ is of New England origin, being from the Indian _schoon_ or
_scoot_, meaning to rush, as Schoodic, from _scoot_ and _anke_, a place
where water rushes. N. B. Somebody of Gloucester was to read a paper on
this matter before a genealogical society, in Boston, March 3, 1859,
according to the _Boston Journal_, q. v.

Nearly all who come out must walk on the four planks which I have
mentioned, so that you are pretty sure to meet all the inhabitants of
Provincetown who come out in the course of a day, provided you keep out
yourself. This evening the planks were crowded with mackerel fishers, to
whom we gave and from whom we took the wall, as we returned to our
hotel. This hotel was kept by a tailor, his shop on the one side of the
door, his hotel on the other, and his day seemed to be divided between
carving meat and carving broadcloth.

The next morning, though it was still more cold and blustering than the
day before, we took to the Deserts again, for we spent our days wholly
out of doors, in the sun when there was any, and in the wind which never
failed. After threading the shrubby hill country at the southwest end of
the town, west of the Shank-Painter Swamp, whose expressive name--for we
understood it at first as a landsman naturally would--gave it importance
in our eyes, we crossed the sands to the shore south of Race Point and
three miles distant, and thence roamed round eastward through the desert
to where we had left the sea the evening before. We travelled five or
six miles after we got out there, on a curving line, and might have gone
nine or ten, over vast platters of pure sand, from the midst of which we
could not see a particle of vegetation, excepting the distant thin
fields of Beach-grass, which crowned and made the ridges toward which
the sand sloped upward on each side;--all the while in the face of a
cutting wind as cold as January; indeed, we experienced no weather so
cold as this for nearly two months afterward. This desert extends from
the extremity of the Cape, through Provincetown into Truro, and many a
time as we were traversing it we were reminded of "Riley's Narrative" of
his captivity in the sands of Arabia, notwithstanding the cold. Our eyes
magnified the patches of Beach-grass into cornfields in the horizon, and
we probably exaggerated the height of the ridges on account of the
mirage. I was pleased to learn afterward, from Kalm's Travels in North
America, that the inhabitants of the Lower St. Lawrence call this grass
(_Calamagrostis arenaria_), and also Sea-lyme grass (_Elymus arenarius_),
_seigle de mer;_ and he adds, "I have been assured that these plants grow
in great plenty in Newfoundland, and on other North American shores; the
places covered with them looking, at a distance, like cornfields; which
might explain the passage in our northern accounts [he wrote in 1749] of
the excellent wine land [_Vinland det goda_, Translator], which mentions
that they had found whole fields of wheat growing wild."

The Beach-grass is "two to four feet high, of a seagreen color," and it
is said to be widely diffused over the world. In the Hebrides it is used
for mats, pack-saddles, bags, hats, etc.; paper has been made of it at
Dorchester in this State, and cattle eat it when tender. It has heads
somewhat like rye, from six inches to a foot in length, and it is
propagated both by roots and seeds. To express its love for sand, some
botanists have called it _Psamma arenaria_, which is the Greek for sand,
qualified by the Latin for sandy,--or sandy sand. As it is blown about
by the wind, while it is held fast by its roots, it describes myriad
circles in the sand as accurately as if they were made by compasses.

It was the dreariest scenery imaginable. The only animals which we saw
on the sand at that time were spiders, which are to be found almost
everywhere whether on snow or ice-water or sand,--and a
venomous-looking, long, narrow worm, one of the myriapods, or
thousand-legs. We were surprised to see spider-holes in that flowing
sand with an edge as firm as that of a stoned well.

In June this sand was scored with the tracks of turtles both large and
small, which had been out in the night, leading to and from the swamps.
I was told by a _terroe filius_ who has a "farm" on the edge of the
desert, and is familiar with the fame of Provincetown, that one man had
caught twenty-five snapping-turtles there the previous spring. His own
method of catching them was to put a toad on a mackerel-hook and cast it
into a pond, tying the line to a stump or stake on shore. Invariably the
turtle when hooked crawled up the line to the stump, and was found
waiting there by his captor, however long afterward. He also said that
minks, muskrats, foxes, coons, and wild mice were found there, but no
squirrels. We heard of sea-turtle as large as a barrel being found on
the beach and on East Harbor marsh, but whether they were native there,
or had been lost out of some vessel, did not appear. Perhaps they were
the Salt-water Terrapin, or else the Smooth Terrapin, found thus far
north. Many toads were met with where there was nothing but sand and
beach-grass. In Truro I had been surprised at the number of large
light-colored toads everywhere hopping over the dry and sandy fields,
their color corresponding to that of the sand. Snakes also are common on
these pure sand beaches, and I have never been so much troubled by
mosquitoes as in such localities. At the same season strawberries grew
there abundantly in the little hollows on the edge of the desert
standing amid the beach-grass in the sand, and the fruit of the shadbush
or Amelanchier, which the inhabitants call Josh-pears (some think from
juicy?), is very abundant on the hills. I fell in with an obliging man
who conducted me to the best locality for strawberries. He said that he
would not have shown me the place if he had not seen that I was a
stranger, and could not anticipate him another year; I therefore feel
bound in honor not to reveal it. When we came to a pond, he being the
native did the honors and carried me over on his shoulders, like
Sindbad. One good turn deserves another, and if he ever comes our way I
will do as much for him.

In one place we saw numerous dead tops of trees projecting through the
otherwise uninterrupted desert, where, as we afterward learned, thirty
or forty years before a flourishing forest had stood, and now, as the
trees were laid bare from year to year, the inhabitants cut off their
tops for fuel.

We saw nobody that day outside of the town; it was too wintry for such
as had seen the Backside before, or for the greater number who never
desire to see it, to venture out; and we saw hardly a track to show that
any had ever crossed this desert. Yet I was told that some are always
out on the Back-side night and day in severe weather, looking for
wrecks, in order that they may get the job of discharging the cargo, or
the like,--and thus shipwrecked men are succored. But, generally
speaking, the inhabitants rarely visit these sands. One who had lived in
Provincetown thirty years told me that he had not been through to the
north side within that time. Sometimes the natives themselves come near
perishing by losing their way in snow-storms behind the town.

The wind was not a Sirocco or Simoon, such as we associate with the
desert, but a New England northeaster,--and we sought shelter in vain
under the sand-hills, for it blew all about them, rounding them into
cones, and was sure to find us out on whichever side we sat. From time
to time we lay down and drank at little pools in the sand, filled with
pure fresh water, all that was left, probably, of a pond or swamp. The
air was filled with dust like snow, and cutting sand which made the face
tingle, and we saw what it must be to face it when the weather was
drier, and, if possible, windier still,--to face a migrating sand-bar in
the air, which has picked up its duds and is off,--to be whipped with a
cat, not o' nine-tails, but of a myriad of tails, and each one a sting
to it. A Mr. Whitman, a former minister of Wellfleet, used to write to
his inland friends that the blowing sand scratched the windows so that
he was obliged to have one new pane set every week, that he might see
out.

On the edge of the shrubby woods the sand had the appearance of an
inundation which was overwhelming them, terminating in an abrupt bank
many feet higher than the surface on which they stood, and having
partially buried the out-side trees. The moving sand-hills of England,
called Dunes or Downs, to which these have been likened, are either
formed of sand cast up by the sea, or of sand taken from the land itself
in the first place by the wind, and driven still farther inward. It is
here a tide of sand impelled by waves and wind, slowly flowing from the
sea toward the town. The northeast winds are said to be the strongest,
but the northwest to move most sand, because they are the driest. On the
shore of the Bay of Biscay many villages were formerly destroyed in this
way. Some of the ridges of beach-grass which we saw were planted by
government many years ago, to preserve the harbor of Provincetown and
the extremity of the Cape. I talked with some who had been employed in
the planting. In the "Description of the Eastern Coast," which I have
already referred to, it is said: "Beach-grass during the spring and
summer grows about two feet and a half. If surrounded by naked beach,
the storms of autumn and winter heap up the sand on all sides, and cause
it to rise nearly to the top of the plant. In the ensuing spring the
grass mounts anew; is again covered with sand in the winter; and thus a
hill or ridge continues to ascend as long as there is a sufficient base
to support it, or till the circumscribing sand, being also covered with
beach-grass, will no longer yield to the force of the winds." Sand-hills
formed in this way are sometimes one hundred feet high and of every
variety of form, like snow-drifts, or Arab tents, and are continually
shifting. The grass roots itself very firmly. When I endeavored to pull
it up, it usually broke off ten inches or a foot below the surface, at
what had been the surface the year before, as appeared by the numerous
offshoots there, it being a straight, hard, round shoot, showing by its
length how much the sand had accumulated the last year; and sometimes
the dead stubs of a previous season were pulled up with it from still
deeper in the sand, with their own more decayed shoot attached,--so
that the age of a sand-hill, and its rate of increase for several years,
is pretty accurately recorded in this way.

[Illustration: The sand dunes drifting in upon the trees]

Old Gerard, the English herbalist, says, p. 1250: "I find mention in
Stowe's Chronicle, in Anno 1555, of a certain pulse or pease, as they
term it, wherewith the poor people at that time, there being a great
dearth, were miraculously helped: he thus mentions it. In the month of
August (saith he), in Suffolke, at a place by the sea side all of hard
stone and pibble, called in those parts a shelf, lying between the towns
of Orford and Aldborough, where neither grew grass nor any earth was
ever seen; it chanced in this barren place suddenly to spring up without
any tillage or sowing, great abundance of peason, whereof the poor
gathered (as men judged) above one hundred quarters, yet remained some
ripe and some blossoming, as many as ever there were before: to the
which place rode the Bishop of Norwich and the Lord Willoughby, with
others in great number, who found nothing but hard, rocky stone the
space of three yards under the roots of these peason, which roots were
great and long, and very sweet." He tells us also that Gesner learned
from Dr. Cajus that there were enough there to supply thousands of men.
He goes on to say that "they without doubt grew there many years before,
but were not observed till hunger made them take notice of them, and
quickened their invention, which commonly in our people is very dull,
especially in finding out food of this nature. My worshipful friend Dr.
Argent hath told me that many years ago he was in this place, and caused
his man to pull among the beach with his hands, and follow the roots so
long until he got some equal in length unto his height, yet could come
to no ends of them." Gerard never saw them, and is not certain what kind
they were.

In Dwight's Travels in New England it is stated that the inhabitants of
Truro were formerly regularly warned under the authority of law in the
month of April yearly, to plant beachgrass, as elsewhere they are warned
to repair the highways. They dug up the grass in bunches, which were
afterward divided into several smaller ones, and set about three feet
apart, in rows, so arranged as to break joints and obstruct the passage
of the wind. It spread itself rapidly, the weight of the seeds when ripe
bending the heads of the grass, and so dropping directly by its side and
vegetating there. In this way, for instance, they built up again that
part of the Cape between Truro and Provincetown where the sea broke over
in the last century. They have now a public road near there, made by
laying sods, which were full of roots, bottom upward and close together
on the sand, double in the middle of the track, then spreading brush
evenly over the sand on each side for half a dozen feet, planting
beachgrass on the banks in regular rows, as above described, and
sticking a fence of brush against the hollows.

The attention of the general government was first attracted to the
danger which threatened Cape Cod Harbor from the inroads of the sand,
about thirty years ago, and commissioners were at that time appointed by
Massachusetts, to examine the premises. They reported in June, 1825,
that, owing to "the trees and brush having been cut down, and the
beach-grass destroyed on the seaward side of the Cape, opposite the
Harbor," the original surface of the ground had been broken up and
removed by the wind toward the Harbor,--during the previous fourteen
years,--over an extent of "one half a mile in breadth, and about four
and a half miles in length."--"The space where a few years since were
some of the highest lands on the Cape, covered with trees and bushes,"
presenting "an extensive waste of undulating sand ";--and that, during
the previous twelve months, the sand "had approached the Harbor an
average distance of fifty rods, for an extent of four and a half miles!"
and unless some measures were adopted to check its progress, it would in
a few years destroy both the harbor and the town. They therefore
recommended that beach-grass be set out on a curving line over a space
ten rods wide and four and a half miles long, and that cattle, horses,
and sheep be prohibited from going abroad, and the inhabitants from
cutting the brush.

I was told that about thirty thousand dollars in all had been
appropriated to this object, though it was complained that a great part
of this was spent foolishly, as the public money is wont to be. Some say
that while the government is planting beach-grass behind the town for
the protection of the harbor, the inhabitants are rolling the sand into
the harbor in wheelbarrows, in order to make house-lots. The
Patent-Office has recently imported the seed of this grass from Holland,
and distributed it over the country, but probably we have as much as the
Hollanders.

Thus Cape Cod is anchored to the heavens, as it were, by a myriad little
cables of beach-grass, and, if they should fail, would become a total
wreck, and erelong go to the bottom. Formerly, the cows were permitted
to go at large, and they ate many strands of the cable by which the Cape
is moored, and well-nigh set it adrift, as the bull did the boat which
was moored with a grass rope; but now they are not permitted to wander.

A portion of Truro which has considerable taxable property on it has
lately been added to Provincetown, and I was told by a Truro man that
his townsmen talked of petitioning the legislature to set off the next
mile of their territory also to Provincetown, in order that she might
have her share of the lean as well as the fat, and take care of the road
through it; for its whole value is literally to hold the Cape together,
and even this it has not always done. But Provincetown strenuously
declines the gift.

The wind blowed so hard from the northeast that, cold as it was, we
resolved to see the breakers on the Atlantic side, whose din we had
heard all the morning; so we kept on eastward through the Desert, till
we struck the shore again northeast of Provincetown, and exposed
ourselves to the full force of the piercing blast. There are extensive
shoals there over which the sea broke with great force. For half a mile
from the shore it was one mass of white breakers, which, with the wind,
made such a din that we could hardly hear ourselves speak. Of this part
of the coast it is said: "A northeast storm, the most violent and fatal
to seamen, as it is frequently accompanied with snow, blows directly on
the land: a strong current sets along the shore; add to which that
ships, during the operation of such a storm, endeavor to work northward,
that they may get into the bay. Should they be unable to weather Race
Point, the wind drives them on the shore, and a shipwreck is inevitable.
Accordingly, the strand is everywhere covered with the fragments of
vessels." But since the Highland Light was erected, this part of the
coast is less dangerous, and it is said that more shipwrecks occur south
of that light, where they were scarcely known before.

[Illustration: The white breakers on the Atlantic side]

This was the stormiest sea that we witnessed,--more _tumultuous_, my
companion affirmed, than the rapids of Niagara, and, of course, on a far
greater scale. It was the ocean in a gale, a clear, cold day, with only
one sail in sight, which labored much, as if it were anxiously seeking a
harbor. It was high tide when we reached the shore, and in one place,
for a considerable distance, each wave dashed up so high that it was
difficult to pass between it and the bank. Further south, where the bank
was higher, it would have been dangerous to attempt it. A native of the
Cape has told me that, many years ago, three boys, his playmates, having
gone to this beach in Wellfleet to visit a wreck, when the sea receded
ran down to the wreck, and when it came in ran before it to the bank,
but the sea following fast at their heels, caused the bank to cave and
bury them alive.

It was the roaring sea, [Greek: thalassa êchêessa,--

    amphi de t akrai
  Êiones booôsin, erenomenês alos exô.]

    And the summits of the bank
  Around resound, the sea being vomited forth.

As we stood looking on this scene we were gradually convinced that
fishing here and in a pond were not, in all respects, the same, and that
he who waits for fair weather and a calm sea may never see the glancing
skin of a mackerel, and get no nearer to a cod than the wooden emblem in
the State House.

Having lingered on the shore till we were well-nigh chilled to death by
the wind, and were ready to take shelter in a Charity-house, we turned
our weather-beaten faces toward Provincetown and the Bay again, having
now more than doubled the Cape.

[1] I. e. a vessel.

[2] The sea, which is arched over its sandy bottom like a heaven.

[3] Battle.




X

PROVINCETOWN

Early the next morning I walked into a fish-house near our hotel, where
three or four men were engaged in trundling out the pickled fish on
barrows, and spreading them to dry. They told me that a vessel had
lately come in from the Banks with forty-four thousand codfish. Timothy
Dwight says that, just before he arrived at Provincetown, "a schooner
come in from the Great Bank with fifty-six thousand fish, almost one
thousand five hundred quintals, taken in a single voyage; the main deck
being, on her return, eight inches under water in calm weather." The cod
in this fish-house, just out of the pickle, lay packed several feet
deep, and three or four men stood on them in cowhide boots, pitching
them on to the barrows with an instrument which had a single iron point.
One young man, who chewed tobacco, spat on the fish repeatedly. Well,
sir, thought I, when that older man sees you he will speak to you. But
presently I saw the older man do the same thing. It reminded me of the
figs of Smyrna. "How long does it take to cure these fish? I asked.

"Two good drying days, sir," was the answer.

I walked across the street again into the hotel to breakfast, and mine
host inquired if I would take "hashed fish or beans." I took beans,
though they never were a favorite dish of mine. I found next summer that
this was still the only alternative proposed here, and the landlord was
still ringing the changes on these two words. In the former dish there
was a remarkable proportion of fish. As you travel inland the potato
predominates. It chanced that I did not taste fresh fish of any kind on
the Cape, and I was assured that they were not so much used there as in
the country. That is where they are cured, and where, sometimes,
travellers are cured of eating them. No fresh meat was slaughtered in
Provincetown, but the little that was used at the public houses was
brought from Boston by the steamer.

[Illustration: In Provincetown harbor]

A great many of the houses here were surrounded by fish-flakes close up
to the sills on all sides, with only a narrow passage two or three feet
wide, to the front door; so that instead of looking out into a flower or
grass plot, you looked on to so many square rods of cod turned wrong
side outwards. These parterres were said to be least like a
flower-garden in a good drying day in mid-summer. There were flakes of
every age and pattern, and some so rusty and overgrown with lichens that
they looked as if they might have served the founders of the fishery
here. Some had broken down under the weight of successive harvests. The
principal employment of the inhabitants at this time seemed to be to
trundle out their fish and spread them in the morning, and bring them in
at night. I saw how many a loafer who chanced to be out early enough got
a job at wheeling out the fish of his neighbor who was anxious to
improve the whole of a fair day. Now, then, I knew where salt fish were
caught. They were everywhere lying on their backs, their collar-bones
standing out like the lapels of a man-o'-war-man's jacket, and inviting
all things to come and rest in their bosoms; and all things, with a few
exceptions, accepted the invitation. I think, by the way, that if you
should wrap a large salt fish round a small boy, he would have a coat of
such a fashion as I have seen many a one wear to muster. Salt fish were
stacked up on the wharves, looking like corded wood, maple and yellow
birch with the bark left on. I mistook them for this at first, and such
in one sense they were,--fuel to maintain our vital fires,--an eastern
wood which grew on the Grand Banks. Some were stacked in the form of
huge flower-pots, being laid in small circles with the tails outwards,
each circle successively larger than the preceding until the pile was
three or four feet high, when the circles rapidly diminished, so as to
form a conical roof. On the shores of New Brunswick this is covered with
birch-bark, and stones are placed upon it, and being thus rendered
impervious to the rain, it is left to season before being packed for
exportation.

It is rumored that in the fall the cows here are sometimes fed on
cod's-heads! The godlike part of the cod, which, like the human head, is
curiously and wonderfully made, forsooth has but little less brain in
it,--coming; to such an end I to be craunched by cows I I felt my own
skull crack from sympathy. What if the heads of men were to be cut off
to feed the cows of a superior order of beings who inhabit the islands
in the ether? Away goes your fine brain, the house of thought and
instinct, to swell the cud of a ruminant animal!--However, an inhabitant
assured me that they did not make a practice of feeding cows on
cod's-heads; the cows merely would eat them sometimes; but I might live
there all my days and never see it done. A cow wanting salt would also
sometimes lick out all the soft part of a cod on the flakes. This he
would have me believe was the foundation of this fish-story.

It has been a constant traveller's tale and perhaps slander, now for
thousands of years, the Latins and Greeks have repeated it, that this or
that nation feeds its cattle, or horses, or sheep, on fish, as may be
seen in OElian and Pliny, but in the Journal of Nearchus, who was
Alexander's admiral, and made a voyage from the Indus to the Euphrates
three hundred and twenty-six years before Christ, it is said that the
inhabitants of a portion of the intermediate coast, whom he called
Ichthyophagi or Fish-eaters, not only ate fishes raw and also dried and
pounded in a whale's vertebra for a mortar and made into a paste, but
gave them to their cattle, there being no grass on the coast; and
several modern travellers--Braybosa, Niebuhr, and others--make the same
report. Therefore in balancing the evidence I am still in doubt about
the Provincetown cows. As for other domestic animals. Captain King in
his continuation of Captain Cook's Journal in 1779, says of the dogs of
Kamtschatka, "Their food in the winter consists entirely of the heads,
entrail, and backbones of salmon, which are put aside and dried for that
purpose; and with this diet they are fed but sparingly." (Cook's
Journal, Vol. VII., p. 315.)

As we are treating of fishy matters, let me insert what Pliny says, that
"the commanders of the fleets of Alexander the Great have related that
the Gedrosi, who dwell on the banks of the river Arabis, are in the
habit of making the doors of their houses with the jaw-bones of fishes,
and raftering the roofs with their bones." Strabo tells the same of the
Ichthyophagi. "Hardouin remarks that the Basques of his day were in the
habit of fencing their gardens with the ribs of the whale, which
sometimes exceeded twenty feet in length; and Cuvier says that at the
present time the jaw-bone of the whale is used in Norway for the purpose
of making beams or posts for buildings." (Bohn's ed., trans, of Pliny,
Vol. II., p. 361.) Herodotus says the inhabitants on Lake Prasias in
Thrace (living on piles) "give fish for fodder to their horses and
beasts of burden."

Provincetown was apparently what is called a flourishing town. Some of
the inhabitants asked me if I did not think that they appeared to be
well off generally. I said that I did, and asked how many there were in
the almshouse. "O, only one or two, infirm or idiotic," answered they.
The outward aspect of the houses and shops frequently suggested a
poverty which their interior comfort and even richness disproved. You
might meet a lady daintily dressed in the Sabbath morning, wading in
among the sandhills, from church, where there appeared no house fit to
receive her, yet no doubt the interior of the house answered to the
exterior of the lady. As for the interior of the inhabitants I am still
in the dark about it. I had a little intercourse with some whom I met in
the street, and was often agreeably disappointed by discovering the
intelligence of rough, and what would be considered unpromising
specimens. Nay, I ventured to call on one citizen the next summer, by
special invitation. I found him sitting in his front doorway, that
Sabbath evening, prepared for me to come in unto him; but unfortunately
for his reputation for keeping open house, there was stretched across
his gateway a circular cobweb of the largest kind and quite entire. This
looked so ominous that I actually turned aside and went in the back way.

This Monday morning was beautifully mild and calm, both on land and
water, promising us a smooth passage across the Bay, and the fishermen
feared that it would not be so good a drying day as the cold and windy
one which preceded it. There could hardly have been a greater contrast.
This was the first of the Indian summer days, though at a late hour in
the morning we found the wells in the sand behind the town still covered
with ice, which had formed in the night. What with wind and sun my most
prominent feature fairly cast its slough. But I assure you it will take
more than two good drying days to cure me of rambling. After making an
excursion among the hills in the neighborhood of the Shank-Painter
Swamp, and getting a little work done in its line, we took our seat upon
the highest sand-hill overlooking the town, in mid-air, on a long plank
stretched across between two hillocks of sand, where some boys were
endeavoring in vain to fly their kite; and there we remained the rest of
that forenoon looking out over the placid harbor, and watching for the
first appearance of the steamer from Wellfleet, that we might be in
readiness to go on board when we heard the whistle off Long Point.

We got what we could out of the boys in the meanwhile. Provincetown boys
are of course all sailors and have sailors' eyes. When we were at the
Highland Light the last summer, seven or eight miles from Provincetown
Harbor, and wished to know one Sunday morning if the _Olata_, a well-known
yacht, had got in from Boston, so that we could return in her, a
Provincetown boy about ten years old, who chanced to be at the table,
remarked that she had. I asked him how he knew. "I just saw her come
in," said he. When I expressed surprise that he could distinguish her
from other vessels so far, he said that there were not so many of those
two-topsail schooners about but that he could tell her. Palfrey said, in
his oration at Barnstable, the duck does not take to the water with a
surer instinct than the Barnstable boy. [He might have said the Cape Cod
boy as well.] He leaps from his leading-strings into the shrouds, it is
but a bound from the mother's lap to the masthead. He boxes the compass
in his infant soliloquies. He can hand, reef, and steer by the time he
flies a kite.

This was the very day one would have chosen to sit upon a hill
overlooking sea and land, and muse there. The mackerel fleet was rapidly
taking its departure, one schooner after another, and standing round the
Cape, like fowls leaving their roosts in the morning to disperse
themselves in distant fields. The turtle-like sheds of the salt-works
were crowded into every nook in the hills, immediately behind the town,
and their now idle windmills lined the shore. It was worth the while to
see by what coarse and simple chemistry this almost necessary of life is
obtained, with the sun for journeyman, and a single apprentice to do the
chores for a large establishment. It is a sort of tropical labor,
pursued too in the sunniest season; more interesting than gold or
diamond-washing, which, I fancy, it somewhat resembles at a distance. In
the production of the necessaries of life Nature is ready enough to
assist man. So at the potash works which I have seen at Hull, where they
burn the stems of the kelp and boil the ashes. Verily, chemistry is not
a splitting of hairs when you have got half a dozen raw Irishmen in the
laboratory. It is said, that owing to the reflection of the sun from the
sand-hills, and there being absolutely no fresh water emptying into the
harbor, the same number of superficial feet yields more salt here than
in any other part of the county. A little rain is considered necessary
to clear the air, and make salt fast and good, for as paint does not
dry, so water does not evaporate in dog-day weather. But they were now,
as elsewhere on the Cape, breaking up their salt-works and selling them
for lumber.

From that elevation we could overlook the operations of the inhabitants
almost as completely as if the roofs had been taken off. They were
busily covering the wicker-worked flakes about their houses with salted
fish, and we now saw that the back yards were improved for this purpose
as much as the front; where one man's fish ended another's began. In
almost every yard we detected some little building from which these
treasures were being trundled forth and systematically spread, and we
saw that there was an art as well as a knack even in spreading fish, and
that a division of labor was profitably practised. One man was
withdrawing his fishes a few inches beyond the nose of his neighbor's
cow which had stretched her neck over a paling to get at them. It seemed
a quite domestic employment, like drying clothes, and indeed in some
parts of the county the women take part in it.

I noticed in several places on the Cape a sort of clothes-_flakes_. They
spread brush on the ground, and fence it round, and then lay their
clothes on it, to keep them from the sand. This is a Cape Cod
clothes-yard.

The sand is the great enemy here. The tops of some of the hills were
enclosed and a board put up, forbidding all persons entering the
enclosure, lest their feet should disturb the sand, and set it a-blowing
or a-sliding. The inhabitants are obliged to get leave from the
authorities to cut wood behind the town for fish-flakes, bean-poles,
pea-brush, and the like, though, as we were told, they may transplant
trees from one part of the township to another without leave. The sand
drifts like snow, and sometimes the lower story of a house is concealed
by it, though it is kept off by a wall. The houses were formerly built
on piles, in order that the driving sand might pass under them. We saw a
few old ones here still standing on their piles, but they were boarded
up now, being protected by their younger neighbors. There was a
school-house, just under the hill on which we sat, filled with sand up
to the tops of the desks, and of course the master and scholars had
fled. Perhaps they had imprudently left the windows open one day, or
neglected to mend a broken pane. Yet in one place was advertised "Fine
sand for sale here,"--I could hardly believe my eyes,--probably some of
the street sifted,--a good instance of the fact that a man confers a
value on the most worthless thing by mixing himself with it, according
to which rule we must have conferred a value on the whole back-side of
Cape Cod;--but I thought that if they could have advertised "Fat Soil,"
or perhaps "Fine sand got rid of," ay, and "Shoes emptied here," it
would have been more alluring. As we looked down on the town, I thought
that I saw one man, who probably lived beyond the extremity of the
planking, steering and tacking for it in a sort of snow-shoes, but I may
have been mistaken. In some pictures of Provincetown the persons of the
inhabitants are not drawn below the ankles, so much being supposed to be
buried in the sand. Nevertheless, natives of Provincetown assured me
that they could walk in the middle of the road without trouble even in
slippers, for they had learned how to put their feet down and lift them
up without taking in any sand. One man said that he should be surprised
if he found half a dozen grains of sand in his pumps at night, and
stated, moreover, that the young ladies had a dexterous way of emptying
their shoes at each step, which it would take a stranger a long time to
learn. The tires of the stage-wheels were about five inches wide; and
the wagon-tires generally on the Cape are an inch or two wider, as the
sand is an inch or two deeper than elsewhere. I saw a baby's wagon with
tires six inches wide to keep it near the surface. The more tired the
wheels, the less tired the horses. Yet all the time that we were in
Provincetown, which was two days and nights, we saw only one horse and
cart, and they were conveying a coffin. They did not try such
experiments there on common occasions. The next summer I saw only the
two-wheeled horse-cart which conveyed me thirty rods into the harbor on
my way to the steamer. Yet we read that there were two horses and two
yoke of oxen here in 1791, and we were told that there were several more
when we were there, beside the stage team. In Barber's Historical
Collections, it is said, "So rarely are wheel-carriages seen in the
place that they are a matter of some curiosity to the younger part of
the community. A lad who understood navigating the ocean much better
than land travel, on seeing a man driving a wagon in the street,
expressed his surprise at his being able to drive so straight without
the assistance of a rudder." There was no rattle of carts, and there
would have been no rattle if there had been any carts. Some
saddle-horses that passed the hotel in the evening merely made the sand
fly with a rustling sound like a writer sanding his paper copiously, but
there was no sound of their tread. No doubt there are more horses and
carts there at present, A sleigh is never seen, or at least is a great
novelty on the Cape, the snow being either absorbed by the sand or blown
into drifts.

Nevertheless, the inhabitants of the Cape generally do not complain of
their "soil," but will tell you that it is good enough for them to dry
their fish on.

Notwithstanding all this sand, we counted three meeting-houses, and four
school-houses nearly as large, on this street, though some had a tight
board fence about them to preserve the plot within level and hard.
Similar fences, even within a foot of many of the houses, gave the town
a less cheerful and hospitable appearance than it would otherwise have
had. They told us that, on the whole, the sand had made no progress for
the last ten years, the cows being no longer permitted to go at large,
and every means being taken to stop the sandy tide.

In 1727 Provincetown was "invested with peculiar privileges." for its
encouragement. Once or twice it was nearly abandoned; but now lots on
the street fetch a high price, though titles to them were first obtained
by possession and improvement, and they are still transferred by
quitclaim deeds merely, the township being the property of the State.
But though lots were so valuable on the street, you might in many places
throw a stone over them to where a man could still obtain land, or sand,
by squatting on or improving it.

[Illustration: Provincetown--A bit of the village from the wharf]

Stones are very rare on the Cape. I saw a very few small stones used for
pavements and for bank walls, in one or two places in my walk, but they
are so scarce that, as I was informed, vessels have been forbidden to
take them from the beach for ballast, and therefore their crews used to
land at night and steal them. I did not hear of a rod of regular stone
wall below Orleans. Yet I saw one man underpinning a new house in
Eastham with some "rocks," as he called them, which he said a neighbor
had collected with great pains in the course of years, and finally made
over to him. This I thought was a gift worthy of being recorded,--equal
to a transfer of California "rocks," almost. Another man who was
assisting him, and who seemed to be a close observer of nature, hinted
to me the locality of a rock in that neighborhood which was "forty-two
paces in circumference and fifteen feet high," for he saw that I was a
stranger, and, probably, would not carry it off. Yet I suspect that the
locality of the few large rocks on the forearm of the Cape is well known
to the inhabitants generally. I even met with one man who had got a
smattering of mineralogy, but where he picked it up I could not guess. I
thought that he would meet with some interesting geological nuts for him
to crack, if he should ever visit the mainland, Cohasset, or Marblehead
for instance.

The well stones at the Highland Light were brought from Hingham, but the
wells and cellars of the Cape are generally built of brick, which also
are imported. The cellars, as well as the wells, are made in a circular
form, to prevent the sand from pressing in the wall. The former are only
from nine to twelve feet in diameter, and are said to be very cheap,
since a single tier of brick will suffice for a cellar of even larger
dimensions. Of course, if you live in the sand, you will not require a
large cellar to hold your roots. In Provincetown, when formerly they
suffered the sand to drive under their houses, obliterating all
rudiments of a cellar, they did not raise a vegetable to put into one.
One farmer in Wellfleet, who raised fifty bushels of potatoes, showed me
his cellar under a corner of his house, not more than nine feet in
diameter, looking like a cistern: but he had another of the same size
under his barn.

You need dig only a few feet almost anywhere near the shore of the Cape
to find fresh water. But that which we tasted was invariably poor.
though the inhabitants called it good, as if they were comparing it
with salt water. In the account of Truro, it is said. "Wells dug near
the shore are dry at low water, or rather at what is called young flood,
but are replenished with the flowing of the tide,"--- the salt water,
which is lowest in the sand, apparently forcing the fresh up. When you
express your surprise at the greenness of a Provincetown garden on the
beach, in a dry season, they will sometimes tell you that the tide
forces the moisture up to them. It is an interesting fact that low
sand-bars in the midst of the ocean, perhaps even those which are laid
bare only at low tide, are reservoirs of fresh water at which the
thirsty mariner can supply himself. They appear, like huge sponges, to
hold the rain and dew which fall on them, and which, by capillary
attraction, are prevented from mingling with the surrounding brine.

The Harbor of Provincetown--which, as well as the greater part of the
Bay, and a wide expanse of ocean, we overlooked from our perch--is
deservedly famous. It opens to the south, is free from rocks, and is
never frozen over. It is said that the only ice seen in it drifts in
sometimes from Barnstable or Plymouth. Dwight remarks that "The storms
which prevail on the American coast generally come from the east; and
there is no other harbor on a windward shore within two hundred miles."
J. D. Graham, who has made a very minute and thorough survey of this
harbor and the adjacent waters, states that "its capacity, depth of
water, excellent anchorage, and the complete shelter it affords from all
winds, combine to render it one of the most valuable ship harbors on our
coast." It is _the_ harbor of the Cape and of the fishermen of
Massachusetts generally. It was known to navigators several years at
least before the settlement of Plymouth. In Captain John Smith's map of
New England, dated 1614. it bears the name of Milford Haven, and
Massachusetts Bay that of Stuard's Bay. His Highness, Prince Charles,
changed the name of Cape Cod to Cape James; but even princes have not
always power to change a name for the worse, and as Cotton Mather said,
Cape Cod is "a name which I suppose it will never lose till shoals of
codfish be seen swimming on its highest hills."

Many an early voyager was unexpectedly caught by this hook, and found
himself embayed. On successive maps, Cape Cod appears sprinkled over
with French, Dutch, and English names, as it made part of New France,
New Holland, and New England. On one map Provincetown Harbor is called
"Fuic (bownet?) Bay," Barnstable Bay "Staten Bay," and the sea north of
it "Mare del Noort," or the North Sea. On another, the extremity of the
Cape is called "Staten Hoeck," or the States Hook. On another, by Young,
this has Noord Zee, Staten hoeck or Hit hoeck, but the copy at Cambridge
has no date; the whole Cape is called "Niew Hollant," (after Hudson);
and on another still, the shore between Race Point and Wood End appears
to be called "Bevechier." In Champlain's admirable Map of New France,
including the oldest recognizable map of what is now the New England
coast with which I am acquainted, Cape Cod is called C. Blan (i.e. Cape
White), from the color of its sands, and Massachusetts Bay is Baye
Blanche. It was visited by De Monts and Champlain in 1605, and the next
year was further explored by Poitrincourt and Champlain. The latter has
given a particular account of these explorations in his "Voyages,"
together with separate charts and soundings of two of its
harbors,--_Malle Barre_, the Bad Bar (Nauset Harbor?), a name now applied
to what the French called _Cap Baturier_; and _Port Fortune_, apparently
Chatham Harbor. Both these names are copied on the map of "Novi Belgii,"
in Ogilvy's America. He also describes minutely the manners and customs
of the savages, and represents by a plate the savages surprising the
French and killing five or six of them. The French afterward killed some
of the natives, and wished, by way of revenge, to carry off some and
make them grind in their hand-mill at Port Royal.

It is remarkable that there is not in English any adequate or correct
account of the French exploration of what is now the coast of New
England, between 1604 and 1608, though it is conceded that they then
made the first permanent European settlement on the continent of North
America north of St. Augustine. If the lions had been the painters it
would have been otherwise. This omission is probably to be accounted for
partly by the fact that the _early edition_ of Champlain's "Voyages" had
not been consulted for this purpose. This contains by far the most
particular, and, I think, the most interesting chapter of what we may
call the Ante-Pilgrim history of New England, extending to one hundred
and sixty pages quarto; but appears to be unknown equally to the
historian and the orator on Plymouth Rock. Bancroft does not mention
Champlain at all among the authorities for De Monts's expedition, nor
does he say that he ever visited the coast of New England. Though he
bore the title of pilot to De Monts, he was, in _another sense_, the
leading spirit, as well as the historian of the expedition. Holmes,
Hildreth, and Barry, and apparently all our historians who mention
Champlain, refer to the edition of 1632, in which all the separate
charts of our harbors, etc., and about one-half the narrative, are
omitted; for the author explored so many lands afterward that he could
afford to forget a part of what he had done. Hildreth, speaking of De
Monts's expedition, says that "he looked into the Penobscot [in 1605],
which Pring had discovered two years before," saying nothing about
Champlain's extensive exploration of it for De Monts in 1604 (Holmes
says 1608, and refers to Purchas); also that he followed in the track of
Pring along the coast "to Cape Cod, which he called Malabarre."
(Haliburton had made the same statement before him in 1829. He called it
Cap Blanc, and Malle Barre (the Bad Bar) was the name given to a harbor
on the east side of the Cape). Pring says nothing about a river there.
Belknap says that Weymouth discovered it in 1605. Sir F. Gorges, says,
in his narration (Maine Hist. Coll., Vol. II., p. 19), 1658, that Pring
in 1606 "made a perfect discovery of all the rivers and harbors." This
is the most I can find. Bancroft makes Champlain to have dis-covered
more western rivers in Maine, not naming the Penobscot; he, however,
must have been the discoverer of distances on this river (see Belknap,
p. 147). Pring was absent from England only about six months, and sailed
by this part of Cape Cod (Malabarre) be-cause it yielded no sassafras,
while the French, who probably had not heard of Pring, were patiently
for years exploring the coast in search of a place of settlement,
sounding and surveying its harbors.

John Smith's map, published in 1616, from observations in 1614-15, is by
many regarded as the oldest map of New England. It is the first that was
made after this country was called New England, for he so called it; but
in Champlain's "Voyages," edition 1613 (and Lescarbot, in 1612, quotes a
still earlier account of his voyage), there is a map of it made when it
was known to Christendom as New France, called _Carte Géographique de la
Nouvelle Franse faictte par le Sieur de Champlain Saint Tongois
Cappitaine ordinaire pour le roi en la Marine,--faict l'en 1612_, from
his observations between 1604 and 1607; a map extending from Labrador to
Cape Cod and westward _to the Great Lakes_, and crowded with information,
geographical, ethnographical, zoölogical, and botanical. He even gives
the variation of the compass as observed by himself at that date on many
parts of the coast. This, taken together with the many _separate charts_
of harbors and their soundings on a large scale, which this volume
contains,--among the rest. _Qui ni be quy_ (Kennebec), _Chouacoit R._ (Saco
R.), _Le Beau port, Port St. Louis_ (near Cape Ann), and others on our
coast,--but _which are not in the edition of 1632_, makes this a completer
map of the New England and adjacent northern coast than was made for
half a century afterward, almost, we might be allowed to say, till
another Frenchman, Des Barres, made another for us, which only our late
Coast Survey has superseded. Most of the maps of this coast made for a
long time after betray their indebtedness to Champlain. He was a skilful
navigator, a man of science, and geographer to the King of France. He
crossed the Atlantic about twenty times, and made nothing of it; often
in a small vessel in which few would dare to go to sea today; and on one
occasion making the voyage from Tadoussac to St. Malo in eighteen days.
He was in this neighborhood, that is, between Annapolis, Nova Scotia,
and Cape Cod, observing the land and its inhabitants, and making a map
of the coast, from May, 1604, to September, 1607, _or about three and a
half years_, and he has described minutely his method of surveying
harbors. By his own account, a part of his map was engraved in 1604 (?).
When Pont-Grave and others returned to France in 1606, he remained at
Port Royal with Poitrincourt, "in order," says he, "by the aid of God,
to finish the chart of the coasts which I had begun"; and again in his
volume, printed before John Smith visited this part of America, he says:
"It seems to me that I have done my duty as far as I could, if I have
not forgotten to put in my said chart whatever I saw, and give a
particular knowledge to the public of what had never been described nor
discovered so particularly as I have done it, although some other may
have heretofore written of it; but it was a very small affair in
comparison with what we have discovered within the last ten years."

It is not generally remembered, if known, by the descendants of the
Pilgrims, that when their forefathers were spending their first
memorable winter in the New World, they had for neighbors a colony of
French no further off than Port Royal (Annapolis, Nova Scotia), three
hundred miles distant (Prince seems to make it about five hundred
miles); where, in spite of many vicissitudes, they had been for fifteen
years. They built a grist-mill there as early as 1606; also made bricks
and turpentine on a stream, Williamson says, in 1606. De Monts, who was
a Protestant, brought his minister with him, who came to blows with the
Catholic priest on the subject of religion. Though these founders of
Acadie endured no less than the Pilgrims, and about the same proportion
of them--thirty-five out of seventy-nine (Williamson's Maine says
thirty-six out of seventy)--died the first winter at St. Croix, 1604-5,
sixteen years earlier, no orator, to my knowledge, has ever celebrated
their enterprise (Williamson's History of Maine does considerably),
while the trials which their successors and descendants endured at the
hands of the English have furnished a theme for both the historian and
poet. (See Bancroft's History and Longfellow's Evangeline.) The remains
at their fort at St. Croix were discovered at the end of the last
century, and helped decide where the true St. Croix, our boundary, was.

The very gravestones of those Frenchmen are probably older than the
oldest English monument in New England north of the Elizabeth Islands,
or perhaps anywhere in New England, for if there are any traces of
Gosnold's storehouse left, his strong works are gone. Bancroft says,
advisedly, in 1834, "It requires a believing eye to discern the ruins of
the fort"; and that there were no ruins of a fort in 1837. Dr. Charles
T. Jackson tells me that, in the course of a geological survey in 1827,
he discovered a gravestone, a slab of trap rock, on Goat Island,
opposite Annapolis (Port Royal), in Nova Scotia, bearing a Masonic
coat-of-arms and the date 1606, which is fourteen years earlier than the
landing of the Pilgrims. This was left in the possession of Judge
Haliburton, of Nova Scotia.

There were Jesuit priests in what has since been called New England,
converting the savages at Mount Desert, then St. Savior, in
1613,--having come over to Port Royal in 1611, though they were almost
immediately interrupted by the English, years before the Pilgrims came
hither to enjoy their own religion. This according to Champlain.
Charlevoix says the same; and after coming from France in 1611, went
west from Port Royal along the coast as far as the Kennebec in 1612, and
was often carried from Port Royal to Mount Desert.

Indeed, the Englishman's history of _New_ England commences only when it
ceases to be _New_ France. Though Cabot was the first to discover the
continent of North America, Champlain, in the edition of his "Voyages"
printed in 1632, after the English had for a season got possession of
Quebec and Port Royal, complains with no little justice: "The common
consent of all Europe is to represent New France as extending at least
to the thirty-fifth and thirty-sixth degrees of latitude, as appears by
the maps of the world printed in Spain, Italy, Holland, Flanders,
Germany, and England, until they possessed themselves of the coasts of
New France, where are Acadie, the Etchemins (Maine and New Brunswick),
the Almouchicois (Massachusetts?), and the Great River St. Lawrence,
where they have imposed, according to their fancy, such names as New
England, Scotland, and others; but it is not easy to efface the memory
of a thing which is known to all Christendom."

That Cabot merely landed on the uninhabitable shore of Labrador, gave
the English no just title to New England, or to the United States,
generally, any more than to Patagonia. His careful biographer (Biddle)
is not certain in what voyage he ran down the coast of the United States
as is reported, and no one tells us what he saw. Miller, in the New York
Hist. Coll., Vol. I., p. 28, says he does not appear to have landed
anywhere. Contrast with this Verrazzani's tarrying fifteen days at one
place on the New England coast, and making frequent excursions into the
interior thence. It chances that the latter's letter to Francis I., in
1524, contains "the earliest original account extant of the Atlantic
coast of the United States"; and even from that time the northern part
of it began to be called _La Terra Francese_, or French Land. A part of it
was called New Holland before it was called New England. The English
were very back-ward to explore and settle the continent which they had
stumbled upon. The French preceded them both in their attempts to
colonize the continent of North America (Carolina and Florida, 1562-4),
and in their first permanent settlement (Port Royal, 1605); and the
right of possession, naturally enough, was the one which England mainly
respected and recognized in the case of Spain, of Portugal, and also of
France, from the time of Henry VII.

The explorations of the French gave to the world the first valuable maps
of these coasts. Denys of Honfleur made a map of the Gulf of St.
Lawrence in 1506. No sooner had Cartier explored the St. Lawrence, in
1535, than there began to be published by his countrymen remarkably
accurate charts of that river as far up as Montreal. It is almost all of
the continent north of Florida that you recognize on charts for more
than a generation afterward,--though Verrazzani's rude plot (made under
French auspices) was regarded by Hackluyt, more than fifty years after
his voyage (in 1524), as the most accurate representation of our coast.
The French trail is distinct. They went measuring and sounding, and when
they got home had something to show for their voyages and explorations.
There was no danger of their charts being lost, as Cabot's have been.

The most distinguished navigators of that day were Italians, or of
Italian descent, and Portuguese. The French and Spaniards, though less
advanced in the science of navigation than the former, possessed more
imagination and spirit of adventure than the English, and were better
fitted to be the explorers of a new continent even as late as 1751.

This spirit it was which so early carried the French to the Great Lakes
and the Mississippi on the north, and the Spaniard to the same river on
the south. It was long before our frontiers reached their settlements in
the west, and a _voyageur_ or _coureur de bois_ is still our conductor
there. Prairie is a French word, as Sierra is a Spanish one. Augustine
in Florida, and Santa Fe in New Mexico [1582], both built by the
Spaniards, are considered the oldest towns in the United States. Within
the memory of the oldest man, the Anglo-Americans were confined between
the Appalachian Mountains and the sea, "a space not two hundred miles
broad," while the Mississippi was by treaty the eastern boundary of New
France. (See the pamphlet on settling the Ohio, London, 1763, bound up
with the travels of Sir John Bartram.) So far as inland discovery was
concerned, the adventurous spirit of the English was that of sailors who
land but for a day, and their enterprise the enterprise of traders.
Cabot spoke like an Englishman, as he was, if he said, as one reports,
in reference to the discovery of the American Continent, when he found
it running toward the north, that it was a great disappointment to him,
being in his way to India; but we would rather add to than detract from
the fame of so great a discoverer.

Samuel Penhallow, in his history (Boston, 1726), p. 51, speaking of
"Port Royal and Nova Scotia," says of the last that its "first seizure
was by Sir Sebastian Cobbet for the crown of Great Britain, in the reign
of King Henry VII.; but lay dormant till the year 1621," when Sir
William Alexander got a patent of it, and possessed it some years; and
afterward Sir David Kirk was proprietor of it, but erelong, "to the
surprise of all thinking men, it was given up unto the French."

Even as late as 1633 we find Winthrop, the first Governor of the
Massachusetts Colony, who was not the most likely to be misinformed,
who, moreover, has the _fame_, at least, of having discovered Wachusett
Mountain (discerned it forty miles inland), talking about the "Great
Lake" and the "hideous swamps about it," near which the Connecticut and
the "Potomack" took their rise; and among the memorable events of the
year 1642 he chronicles Darby Field, an Irishman's expedition to the
"White hill," from whose top he saw eastward what he "judged to be the
Gulf of Canada," and westward what he "judged to be the great lake which
Canada River comes out of," and where he found much "Muscovy glass," and
"could rive out pieces of forty feet long and seven or eight broad."
While the very inhabitants of New England were thus fabling about the
country a hundred miles inland, which was a _terra incognita_ to them,--or
rather many years before the earliest date referred to,--Champlain, the
_first Governor of Canada_, not to mention the inland discoveries of
Cartier, [1] Roberval, and others, of the preceding century, and his own
earlier voyage, had already gone to war against the Iroquois in their
forest forts, and penetrated to the Great Lakes and wintered there,
before a Pilgrim had heard of New England.

In Champlain's "Voyages," printed in 1613, there is a plate representing
a fight in which he aided the Canada Indians against the Iroquois, near
the south end of Lake Champlain, in July, 1609, eleven years before the
settlement of Plymouth. Bancroft says he joined the Algonquins in an
expedition against the Iroquois, or Five Nations, in the northwest of
New York. This is that "Great Lake," which the English, hearing some
rumor of from the French, long after, locate in an "Imaginary Province
called Laconia, and spent several years about 1630 in the vain attempt
to discover." (Sir Ferdinand Gorges, in Maine Hist. Coll., Vol. II., p.
68.) Thomas Morton has a chapter on this "Great Lake." In the edition of
Champlain's map dated 1632, the Falls of Niagara appear; and in a great
lake northwest of _Mer Douce_ (Lake Huron) there is an island represented,
over which is written, "_Isle ou il y a une mine de cuivre_,"--"Island
where there is a mine of copper." This will do for an offset to our
Governor's "Muscovy Glass." Of all these adventures and discoveries we
have a minute and faithful account, giving facts and dates as well as
charts and soundings, all scientific and Frenchman-like, with scarcely
one fable or traveller's story.

Probably Cape Cod was visited by Europeans long before the seventeenth
century. It may be that Cabot himself beheld it. Verrazzani, in 1524,
according to his own account, spent fifteen days on our coast, in
latitude 41 degrees 40 minutes (some suppose in the harbor of Newport),
and often went five or six leagues into the interior there, and he says
that he sailed thence at once one hundred and fifty leagues
northeasterly, _always in sight of the coast_. There is a chart in
Hackluyt's "Divers Voyages," made according to Verrazzani's plot, which
last is praised for its accuracy by Hackluyt, but I cannot distinguish
Cape Cod on it, unless it is the "C. Arenas," which is in the right
latitude, though ten degrees west of "Claudia," which is thought to be
Block Island.

The "Biographic Universelle" informs us that "An ancient manuscript
chart drawn in 1529 by Diego Ribeiro, a Spanish cosmographer, has
preserved the memory of the voyage of Gomez [a Portuguese sent out by
Charles the Fifth]. One reads in it under (_au dessous_) the place
occupied by the States of New York, Connecticut, and Rhode Island, _Terre
d'Etienne Gomez, qu'il découvrit en 1525_ (Land of Etienne Gomez, which
he discovered in 1525)." This chart, with a memoir, was published at
Weimar in the last century.

Jean Alphonse, Roberval's pilot in Canada in 1642, one of the most
skilful navigators of his time, and who has given remarkably minute and
accurate direction for sailing up the St. Lawrence, showing that he
knows what he is talking about, says in his "_Routier_" (it is in
Hackluyt), "I have been at a bay as far as the forty-second degree,
between Norimbegue [the Penobscot?] and Florida, but I have not explored
the bottom of it, and I do not know whether it passes from one land to
the other," _i.e._ to Asia. (" J'ai été à une Baye jusques par les 42
degres entre la Norimbegue et la Floride; mais je n'en ai pas cherché le
fond, et ne sçais pas si elle passe d'une terre à I'autre.") This may
refer to Massachusetts Bay, if not possibly to the western inclination
of the coast a little farther south. When he says, "I have no doubt that
the Norimbegue enters into the river of Canada," he is perhaps so
interpreting some account which the Indians had given respecting the
route from the St. Lawrence to the Atlantic by the St. John, or
Penobscot, or possibly even the Hudson River.

We hear rumors of this country of "Norumbega" and its great city from
many quarters. In a discourse by a great French sea-captain in Ramusio's
third volume (1556-65), this is said to be the name given to the land by
its inhabitants, and Verrazzani is called the discoverer of it; another
in 1607 makes the natives call it, or the river, Aguncia. It is
represented as an island on an accompanying chart. It is frequently
spoken of by old writers as a country of indefinite extent, between
Canada and Florida, and it appears as a large island with Cape Breton at
its eastern extremity, on the map made according to Verrazzani's plot in
Hackluyt's "Divers Voyages." These maps and rumors may have been the
origin of the notion, common among the early settlers, that New England
was an island. The country and city of Norumbega appear about where
Maine now is on a map in Ortelius ("Theatrum Orbis Terrarum," Antwerp,
1570), and the "R. Grande" is drawn where the Penobscot or St. John
might be.

In 1604, Champlain being sent by the Sieur de Monts to explore the coast
of Norumbegue, sailed up the Penobscot twenty-two or twenty-three
leagues from "Isle Haute," or till he was stopped by the falls. He says:
"I think that this river is that which many pilots and historians call
Norumbegue, and which the greater part have described as great and
spacious, with numerous islands; and its entrance in the forty-third or
forty-third and one half or, according to others, the forty-fourth
degree of latitude, more or less." He is convinced that "the greater
part" of those who speak of a great city there have never seen it, but
repeat a mere rumor, but he thinks that some have seen the mouth of the
river since it answers to their description.

Under date of 1607 Champlain writes: "Three or four leagues north of the
Cap de Poitrincourt [near the head of the Bay of Fundy in Nova Scotia]
we found a cross, which was very old, covered with moss and almost all
decayed, which was an evident sign that there had formerly been
Christians there."

Also the following passage from Lescarbot will show how much the
neighboring coasts were frequented by Europeans in the sixteenth
century. Speaking of his return from Port Royal to France in 1607, he
says: "At last, within four leagues of Campseau [the Gut of Canso], we
arrived at a harbor [in Nova Scotia], where a worthy old gentleman from
St. John de Lus, named Captain Savale, was fishing, who received us with
the utmost courtesy. And as this harbor, which is small, but very good,
has no name, I have given it on my geographical chart the name of
Savalet. [It is on Champlain's map also.] This worthy man told us that
this voyage was the forty-second which he had made to those parts, and
yet the Newfoundlanders [_Terre neuviers_] make only one a year. He was
wonderfully content with his fishery, and informed us that he made daily
fifty crowns' worth of cod, and that his voyage would be worth ten
thousand francs. He had sixteen men in his employ; and his vessel was of
eighty tons, which could carry a hundred thousand dry cod." (Histoire de
la Nouvelle France, 1612.) They dried their fish on the rocks on shore.

The "Isola della Rena" (Sable Island?) appears on the chart of "Nuova
Francia" and Norumbega, accompanying the "Discourse" above referred to
in Ramusio's third volume, edition 1556-65. Champlain speaks of there
being at the Isle of Sable, in 1604, "grass pastured by oxen (_boeufs_)
and cows which the Portuguese carried there more than sixty years ago,"
_i.e._ sixty years before 1613; in a later edition he says, which came
out of a Spanish vessel which was lost in endeavoring to settle on the
Isle of Sable; and he states that De la Roche's men, who were left on
this island seven years from 1598, lived on the flesh of these cattle
which they found "_en quantie)_," and built houses out of the wrecks of
vessels which came to the island ("perhaps Gilbert's"), there being no
wood or stone. Lescarbot says that they lived "on fish and the milk of
cows left there about eighty years before by Baron de Leri and Saint
Just." Charlevoix says they ate up the cattle and then lived on fish.
Haliburton speaks of cattle left there as a rumor. De Leri and Saint
Just had suggested plans of colonization on the Isle of Sable as early
as 1515 (1508?) according to Bancroft, referring to Charlevoix. These
are but a few of the instances which I might quote.

Cape Cod is commonly said to have been discovered in 1602. We will
consider at length under what circumstances, and with what observation
and expectations, the first Englishmen whom history clearly discerns
approached the coast of New England. According to the accounts of Archer
and Brereton (both of whom accompanied Gosnold), on the 26th of March,
1602, old style. Captain Bartholomew Gosnold set sail from Falmouth,
England, for the North part of Virginia, in a small bark called the
_Concord_, they being in all, says one account, "thirty-two persons,
whereof eight mariners and sailors, twelve purposing upon the discovery
to return with the ship for England, the rest remain there for
population." This is regarded as "the first attempt of the English to
make a settlement within the limits of New England." Pursuing a new and
a shorter course than the usual one by the Canaries, "the 14th of April
following" they had sight of Saint Mary's, an island of the Azores. As
their sailors were few and "none of the best" (I use their own
phrases), and they were "going upon an unknown coast," they were not
"overbold to stand in with the shore but in open weather"; so they made
their first discovery of land with the lead. The 23d of April the ocean
appeared yellow, but on taking up some of the water in a bucket, "it
altered not either in color or taste from the sea azure." The 7th of May
they saw divers birds whose names they knew, and many others in their
"English tongue of no name." The 8th of May "the water changed to a
yellowish green, where at seventy fathoms" they "had ground." The 9th,
they had upon their lead "many glittering stones,"--"which might promise
some mineral matter in the bottom." The 10th, they were over a bank
which they thought to be near the western end of St. John's Island, and
saw schools of fish. The 12th, they say, "continually passed fleeting by
us sea-oare, which seemed to have their movable course towards the
northeast." On the 13th, they observed "great beds of weeds, much wood,
and divers things else floating by," and "had smelling of the shore much
as from the southern Cape and Andalusia in Spain." On Friday, the 14th,
early in the morning they descried land on the north, in the latitude of
forty-three degrees, apparently some part of the coast of Maine.
Williamson (History of Maine) says it certainly could not have been
south of the central Isle of Shoals. Belknap inclines to think it the
south side of Cape Ann. Standing fair along by the shore, about twelve
o'clock the same day, they came to anchor and were visited by eight
savages, who came off to them "in a Biscay shallop, with sail and
oars,"--"an iron grapple, and a kettle of copper." These they at first
mistook for "Christians distressed." One of them was "apparelled with a
waistcoat and breeches of black serge, made after our sea-fashion, hoes
and shoes on his feet; all the rest (saving one that had a pair of
breeches of blue cloth) were naked." They appeared to have had dealings
with "some Basques of St. John de Luz, and to understand much more than
we," say the English, "for want of language, could comprehend." But they
soon "set sail westward, leaving them and their coast." (This was a
remarkable discovery for discoverers.)

"The 15th day," writes Gabriel Archer, "we had again sight of the land,
which made ahead, being as we thought an island, by reason of a large
sound that appeared westward between it and the main, for coming to the
west end thereof, we did perceive a large opening, we called it Shoal
Hope. Near this cape we came to anchor in fifteen fathoms, where we took
great store of cod-fish, for which we altered the name and called it
Cape Cod. Here we saw skulls of her-ring, mackerel, and other small
fish, in great abundance. This is a low sandy shoal, but without danger;
also we came to anchor again in sixteen fathoms, fair by the land in the
latitude of forty-two degrees. This Cape is well near a mile broad, and
lieth northeast by east. The captain went here ashore, and found the
ground to be full of peas, strawberries, whortleberries, etc., as then
unripe, the sand also by the shore somewhat deep; the firewood there by
us taken in was of cypress, birch, witch-hazel, and beach. A young
Indian came here to the captain, armed with his bow and arrows, and had
certain plates of copper hanging at his ears; he showed a willingness
to help us in our occasions."

"The 16th we trended the coast southerly, which was all champaign and
full of grass, but the islands somewhat woody."

Or, according to the account of John Brereton, "riding here," that is,
where they first communicated with the natives, "in no very good harbor,
and withal doubting the weather, about three of the clock the same day
in the afternoon we weighed, and standing southerly off into sea the
rest of that day and the night following, with a fresh gale of wind, in
the morning we found ourselves embayed with a mighty headland; but
coming to an anchor about nine of the clock the same day, within a
league of the shore, we hoisted out the one half of our shallop, and
Captain Bartholomew Gosnold, myself and three others, went ashore, being
a white sandy and very bold shore; and marching all that afternoon with
our muskets on our necks, on the highest hills which we saw (the weather
very hot), at length we perceived this headland to be parcel of the
main, and sundry islands lying almost round about it; so returning
towards evening to our shallop (for by that time the other part was
brought ashore and set together), we espied an Indian, a young man of
proper stature, and of a pleasing countenance, and after some
familiarity with him, we left him at the sea side, and returned to our
ship, where in five or six hours' absence we had pestered our ship so
with codfish, that we threw numbers of them overboard again; and surely
I am persuaded that in the months of March, April, and May, there is
upon this coast better fishing, and in as great plenty, as in
Newfoundland; for the skulls of mackerel, herrings, cod, and other fish,
that we daily saw as we went and came from the shore, were wonderful,"
etc.

"From this place we sailed round about this headland, almost all the
points of the compass, the shore very bold; but as no coast is free from
dangers, so I am persuaded this is as free as any. The land somewhat
low, full of goodly woods, but in some places plain."

It is not quite clear on which side of the Cape they landed. If it was
inside, as would appear from Brereton's words, "From this place we
sailed round about this headland almost all the points of the compass,"
it must have been on the western shore either of Truro or Wellfleet. To
one sailing south into Barnstable Bay along the Cape, the only "white,
sandy, and very bold shore" that appears is in these towns, though the
bank is not so high there as on the eastern side. At a distance of four
or five miles the sandy cliffs there look like a long fort of yellow
sandstone, they are so level and regular, especially in Wellfleet,--the
fort of the land defending itself against the encroachments of the
Ocean. They are streaked here and there with a reddish sand as if
painted. Farther south the shore is more flat, and less _obviously_ and
abruptly sandy, and a little tinge of green here and there in the
marshes appears to the sailor like a rare and precious emerald. But in
the Journal of Pring's Voyage the next year (and Salterne, who was with
Pring, had accompanied Gosnold) it is said, "Departing hence [_i.e._ from
Savage Rocks] we bore unto that great gulf which Captain Gosnold
overshot the year before." [2]

So they sailed round the Cape, calling the southeasterly extremity
"Point Cave," till they came to an island which they named Martha's
Vineyard (now called No Man's Land), and another on which they dwelt
awhile, which they named Elizabeth's Island, in honor of the Queen, one
of the group since so called, now known by its Indian name Cuttyhunk.
There they built a small storehouse, the first house built by the
English in New England, whose cellar could recently still be seen, made
partly of stones taken from the beach. Bancroft says (edition of 1837),
the ruins of the fort can no longer be discerned. They who were to have
remained becoming discontented, all together set sail for England with a
load of sassafras and other commodities, on the 18th of June following.

The next year came Martin Pring, looking for sassafras, and thereafter
they began to come thick and fast, until long after sassafras had lost
its reputation.

These are the oldest acounts which we have of Cape Cod, unless,
perchance. Cape Cod is, as some suppose, the same with that
"Kial-ar-nes" or Keel-Cape, on which, according to old Icelandic
manuscripts, Thorwald, son of Eric the Red, after sailing many days
southwest from Greenland, broke his keel in the year 1004; and where,
according to another, in some respects less trustworthy manuscript,
Thor-finn Karlsefue ("that is, one who promises or is destined to be an
able or great man"; he is said to have had a son born in New. England,
from whom Thorwaldsen the sculptor was descended), sailing past, in the
year 1007, with his wife Gudrida, Snorre Thorbrandson, Biarne
Grinolfson, and Thorhall Garnlason, distinguished Norsemen, in three
ships containing "one hundred and sixty men and all sorts of live stock"
(probably the first Norway rats among the rest), having the land "on the
right side" of them, "roved ashore," and found "_Or-oefi_ (trackless
deserts)," and "_Strand-ir lang-ar ok sand-ar_ (long narrow beaches and
sand-hills)," and "called the shores _Furdustrand-ir_ (Wonder-Strands),
because the sailing by them seemed long."

According to the Icelandic manuscripts, _Thorwald_ was the first,
then,--unless possibly one Biarne Heriulfson (_i.e._ son of Heriulf) who
had been seized with a great desire to travel, sailing from Iceland to
Greenland in the year 986 to join his father who had migrated thither,
for he had resolved, says the manuscript, "to spend the following
winter, like all the preceding ones, with his father,"--being driven far
to the southwest by a storm, when it cleared up saw the low land of Cape
Cod looming faintly in the distance; but this not answering to the
description of Greenland, he put his vessel about, and, sailing
northward along the coast, at length reached Greenland and his father.
At any rate, he may put forth a strong claim to be regarded as the
discoverer of the American continent.

These Northmen were a hardy race, whose younger sons inherited the
ocean, and traversed it without chart or compass, and they are said to
have been "the first who learned the art of sailing on a wind."
Moreover, they had a habit of casting their door-posts overboard and
settling wherever they went ashore. But as Biarne, and Thorwald, and
Thorfinn have not mentioned the latitude and longitude distinctly
enough, though we have great respect for them as skilful and adventurous
navigators, we must for the present remain in doubt as to what capes
they did see. We think that they were considerably further north.

If time and space permitted, I could present the claims of other several
worthy persons. Lescarbot, in 1609, asserts that the French sailors had
been accustomed to frequent the Newfoundland Banks from time immemorial,
"for the codfish with which they feed almost all Europe and supply all
sea-going vessels," and accordingly "the language of the nearest lands
is half Basque"; and he quotes Postel, a learned but extravagant French
author, born in 1510, only six years after the Basques, Bretons, and
Normans are said to have discovered the Grand Bank and adjacent islands,
as saying, in his _Charte Géographique_, which we have not seen: "Terra
haec ob lucrosissimam piscationis utilitatem summa litterarum memoria a
Gallis adiri solita, et ante mille sexcentos annos frequentari solita
est; sed eo quod sit urbibus inculta et vasta, spreta est." "This land,
on account of its very lucrative fishery, was accustomed to be visited
by the Gauls from the very dawn of history, and more than sixteen
hundred years ago was accustomed to be frequented; but because it was
unadorned with cities, and waste, it was despised."

It is the old story. Bob Smith discovered the mine, but I discovered it
to the world. And now Bob Smith is putting in his claim.

But let us not laugh at Postel and his visions. He was perhaps better
posted up than we; and if he does seem to draw the long bow, it may be
because he had a long way to shoot,--quite across the Atlantic, If
America was found and lost again once, as most of us believe, then why
not twice? especially as there were likely to be so few records of an
earlier discovery. Consider what stuff history is made of,--that for the
most part it is merely a story agreed on by posterity. Who will tell us
even how many Russians were engaged in the battle of the Chernaya, the
other day? Yet no doubt, Mr. Scriblerus, the historian, will fix on a
definite number for the schoolboys to commit to their excellent
memories. What, then, of the number of Persians at Salamis? The
historian whom I read knew as much about the position of the parties and
their tactics in the last-mentioned affair, as they who describe a
recent battle in an article for the press now-a-days, before the
particulars have arrived. I believe that, if I were to live the life of
mankind over again myself (which I would not be hired to do), with the
Universal History in my hands, I should not be able to tell what was
what.

Earlier than the date Postel refers to, at any rate. Cape Cod lay in
utter darkness to the civilized world, though even then the sun rose
from eastward out of the sea every day, and, rolling over the Cape, went
down westward into the Bay. It was even then Cape and Bay,--ay, the Cape
of _Codfish_, and the Bay of the _Massachusetts_, perchance.

Quite recently, on the 11th of November, 1620, old style, as is well
known, the Pilgrims in the _Mayflower_ came to anchor in Cape Cod harbor.
They had loosed from Plymouth, England, the 6th of September, and, in
the words of "Mourts' Relation," "after many difficulties in boisterous
storms, at length, by God's providence, upon the 9th of November, we
espied land, which we deemed to be Cape Cod, and so afterward it proved.
Upon the 11th of November we came to anchor in the bay, which is a good
harbor and pleasant bay, circled round except in the entrance, which is
about four miles over from land to land, compassed about to the very sea
with oaks, pines, juniper, sassafras, and other sweet wood. It is a
harbor wherein a thousand sail of ships may safely ride. There we
relieved ourselves with wood and water, and refreshed our people, while
our shallop was fitted to coast the bay, to search for an habitation."
There we put up at Fuller's Hotel, passing by the Pilgrim House as too
high for us (we learned afterward that we need not have been so
particular), and we refreshed ourselves with hashed fish and beans,
beside taking in a supply of liquids (which were not intoxicating),
while our legs were refitted to coast the back-side. Further say the
Pilgrims: "We could not come near the shore by three quarters of an
English mile, because of shallow water; which was a great prejudice to
us; for our people going on shore were forced to wade a bow-shot or two
in going aland, which caused many to get colds and coughs; for it was
many times freezing cold weather." They afterwards say: "It brought much
weakness amongst us"; and no doubt it led to the death of some at
Plymouth.

The harbor of Provincetown is very shallow near the shore, especially
about the head, where the Pilgrims landed. When I left this place the
next summer, the steamer could not get up to the wharf, but we were
carried out to a large boat in a cart as much as thirty rods in shallow
water, while a troop of little boys kept us company, wading around, and
thence we pulled to the steamer by a rope. The harbor being thus shallow
and sandy about the shore, coasters are accustomed to run in here to
paint their vessels, which are left high and dry when the tide goes
down.

It chanced that the Sunday morning that we were there, I had joined a
party of men who were smoking and lolling over a pile of boards on one
of the wharves (_nihil humanum a me, etc_.), when our landlord, who was a
sort of tithing-man, went off to stop some sailors who were engaged in
painting their vessel. Our party was recruited from time to time by
other citizens, who came rubbing their eyes as if they had just got out
of bed; and one old man remarked to me that it was the custom there to
lie abed very late on Sunday, it being a day of rest. I remarked that,
as I thought, they might as well let the men paint, for all us. It was
not noisy work, and would not disturb our devotions. But a young man in
the company, taking his pipe out of his mouth, said that it was a plain
contradiction of the law of God, which he quoted, and if they did not
have some such regulation, vessels would run in there to tar, and rig,
and paint, and they would have no Sabbath at all. This was a good
argument enough, if he had not put it in the name of religion. The next
summer, as I sat on a hill there one sultry Sunday afternoon the
meeting-house windows being open, my meditations were interrupted by the
noise of a preacher who shouted like a boatswain, profaning the quiet
atmosphere, and who, I fancied, must have taken off his coat. Few things
could have been more disgusting or disheartening. I wished the
tithing-man would stop him.

[Illustration: The day of rest]

The Pilgrims say: "There was the greatest store of fowl that ever we
saw."

We saw no fowl there, except gulls of various kinds; but the greatest
store of them that ever we saw was on a flat but slightly covered with
water on the east side of the harbor, and we observed a man who had
landed there from a boat creeping along the shore in order to get a shot
at them, but they all rose and flew away in a great scattering flock,
too soon for him, having apparently got their dinners, though he did not
get his.

It is remarkable that the Pilgrims (or their reporter) describe this
part of the Cape, not only as well wooded, but as having a deep and
excellent soil, and hardly mention the word _sand_. Now what strikes the
voyager is the barrenness and desolation of the land. _They_ found "the
ground or earth sand-hills, much like the downs in Holland, but much
better the crust of the earth, a spit's depth, excellent black earth."
_We_ found that the earth had lost its crust,--if, in-deed, it ever had
any,--and that there was no soil to speak of. We did not see enough
black earth in Provincetown to fill a flower-pot, unless in the swamps.
They found it "all wooded with oaks, pines, sassafras, juniper, birch,
holly, vines, some ash, walnut; the wood for the most part open and
without underwood, fit either to go or ride in." We saw scarcely
anything high enough to be called a tree, except a little low wood at
the east end of the town, and the few ornamental trees in its
yards,--only a few small specimens of some of the above kinds on the
sand-hills in the rear; but it was all thick shrubbery, without any
large wood above it, very unfit either to go or ride in. The greater
part of the land was a perfect desert of yellow sand, rippled like waves
by the wind, in which only a little Beach-grass grew here and there.
They say that, just after passing the head of East Harbor Creek, the
boughs and bushes "tore" their "very armor in pieces" (the same thing
happened to such armor as we wore, when out of curiosity we took to the
bushes); or they came to deep valleys, "full of brush, wood-gaile, and
long grass," and "found springs of fresh water."

For the most part we saw neither bough nor bush, not so much as a shrub
to tear our clothes against if we would, and a sheep would lose none of
its fleece, even if it found herbage enough to make fleece grow there.
We saw rather beach and poverty-grass, and merely sorrel enough to color
the surface. I suppose, then, by Woodgaile they mean the Bay berry.

All accounts agree in affirming that this part of the Cape was
_comparatively_ well wooded a century ago. But notwithstanding the great
changes which have taken place in these respects, I cannot but think
that we must make some allowance for the greenness of the Pilgrims in
these matters, which caused them to see green. We do not believe that
the trees were large or the soil was deep here. Their account may be
true particularly, but it is generally false. They saw literally, as
well as figuratively, but one side of the Cape. They naturally
exaggerated the fairness and attractiveness of the land, for they were
glad to get to any land at all after that anxious voyage. Everything
appeared to them of the color of the rose, and had the scent of juniper
and sassafras. Very different is the general and off-hand account given
by Captain John Smith, who was on this coast six years earlier, and
speaks like an old traveller, voyager, and soldier, who had seen too
much of the world to exaggerate, or even to dwell long, on a part of it.
In his "Description of New England," printed in 1616, after speaking of
Accomack, since called Plymouth, he says: "Cape Cod is the next presents
itself, which is only a headland of high hills of sand, overgrown with
shrubby pines, _hurts_ [i.e. whorts, or whortleberries], and such trash,
but an excellent harbor for all weathers. This Cape is made by the main
sea on the one side, and a great bay on the other, in form of a sickle."
Champlain had already written, "Which we named _Cap Blanc_ (Cape White),
because they were sands and downs (_sables et dunes_) which appeared
thus."

When the Pilgrims get to Plymouth their reporter says again, "The land
for the crust of the earth is a spit's depth,"--that would seem to be
their recipe for an earth's crust,--"excellent black mould and fat in
some places." However, according to Bradford himself, whom some consider
the author of part of "Mourt's Relation," they who came over in the
_Fortune_ the next year were somewhat daunted when "they came into the
harbor of Cape Cod, and there saw nothing but a naked and barren place."
They soon found out their mistake with respect to the goodness of
Plymouth soil. Yet when at length, some years later, when they were
fully satisfied of the poorness of the place which they had chosen, "the
greater part," says Bradford, "consented to a removal to a place called
Nausett," they agreed to remove all together to Nauset, now Eastham,
which was jumping out of the frying-pan into the fire; and some of the
most respectable of the inhabitants of Plymouth did actually remove
thither accordingly.

It must be confessed that the Pilgrims possessed but few of the
qualities of the modern pioneer. They were not the ancestors of the
American backwoodsmen. They did not go at once into the woods with their
axes. They were a family and church, and were more anxious to keep
together, though it were on the sand, than to explore and colonize a New
World. When the above-mentioned company removed to Eastham, the church
at Plymouth was left, to use Bradford's expression, "like an ancient
mother grown old, and forsaken of her children." Though they landed on
Clark's Island in Plymouth harbor, the 9th of December (O. S.), and the
16th all hands came to Plymouth, and the 18th they rambled about the
mainland, and the 19th decided to settle there, it was the 8th of
January before Francis Billington went with one of the master's mates to
look at the magnificent pond or lake now called "Billington Sea," about
two miles distant, which he had discovered from the top of a tree, and
mistook for a great sea. And the 7th of March "Master Carver with five
others went to the great ponds which seem to be excellent fishing," both
which points are within the compass of an ordinary afternoon's
ramble,--however wild the country. It is true they were busy at first
about their building, and were hindered in that by much foul weather;
but a party of emigrants to California or Oregon, with no less work on
their hands,--and more hostile Indians,--would do as much exploring the
first afternoon, and the Sieur de Champlain would have sought an
interview with the savages, and examined the country as far as the
Connecticut, and made a map of it, before Billington had climbed his
tree. Or contrast them only with the French searching for copper about
the Bay of Fundy in 1603, tracing up small streams with Indian guides.
Nevertheless, the Pilgrims were pioneers and the ancestors of pioneers,
in a far grander enterprise.

By this time we saw the little steamer _Naushon_ entering the harbor, and
heard the sound of her whistle, and came down from the hills to meet her
at the wharf. So we took leave of Cape Cod and its inhabitants. We liked
the manners of the last, what little we saw of them, very much. They
were particularly downright and good-humored. The old people appeared
remarkably well preserved, as if by the saltness of the atmosphere, and
after having once mistaken, we could never be certain whether we were
talking to a coeval of our grandparents, or to one of our own age. They
are said to be more purely the descendants of the Pilgrims than the
inhabitants of any other part of the State. We were told that
"sometimes, when the court comes together at Barnstable, they have not a
single criminal to try, and the jail is shut up." It was "to let" when
we were there. Until quite recently there was no regular lawyer below
Orleans. Who then will complain of a few regular man-eating sharks along
the back-side?

One of the ministers of Truro, when I asked what the fishermen did in
the winter, answered that they did nothing but go a-visiting, sit about
and tell stories,--though they worked hard in summer. Yet it is not a
long vacation they get. I am sorry that I have not been there in the
winter to hear their yarns. Almost every Cape man is Captain of some
craft or other,--every man at least who is at the head of his own
affairs, though it is not every one that is, for some heads have the
force of _Alpha privative_, negativing all the efforts which Nature would
fain make through them. The greater number of men are merely corporals.
It is worth the while to talk with one whom his neighbors address as
Captain, though his craft may have long been sunk, and he may be holding
by his teeth to the shattered mast of a pipe alone, and only gets
half-seas-over in a figurative sense, now. He is pretty sure to
vindicate his right to the title at last,--can tell one or two good
stories at least.

For the most part we saw only the back-side of the towns, but our story
is true as far as it goes. We might have made more of the Bay side, but
we were inclined to open our eyes widest at the Atlantic. We did not
care to see those features of the Cape in which it is inferior or merely
equal to the mainland, but only those in which it is peculiar or
superior. We cannot say how its towns look in front to one who goes to
meet them; we went to see the ocean behind them. They were merely the
raft on which we stood, and we took notice of the barnacles which
adhered to it, and some carvings upon it.

Before we left the wharf we made the acquaintance of a passenger whom we
had seen at the hotel. When we asked him which way he came to
Provincetown, he answered that he was cast ashore at Wood End, Saturday
night, in the same storm in which the _St. John_ was wrecked. He had been
at work as a carpenter in Maine, and took passage for Boston in a
schooner laden with lumber. When the storm came up, they endeavored to
get into Provincetown harbor. "It was dark and misty," said he, "and as
we were steering for Long Point Light we suddenly saw the land near
us,--for our compass was out of order,--varied several degrees [a
mariner always casts the blame on his compass],--but there being a mist
on shore, we thought it was farther off than it was, and so held on, and
we immediately struck on the bar. Says the Captain, 'We are all lost.'
Says I to the Captain, 'Now don't let her strike again this way; head
her right on.' The Captain thought a moment, and then headed her on. The
sea washed completely over us, and wellnigh took the breath out of my
body. I held on to the running rigging, but I have learned to hold on to
the standing rigging the next time." "Well, were there any drowned?" I
asked. "No; we all got safe to a house at Wood End, at midnight, wet to
our skins, and half frozen to death." He had apparently spent the time
since playing checkers at the hotel, and was congratulating himself on
having beaten a tall fellow-boarder at that game. "The vessel is to be
sold at auction to-day," he added. (We had heard the sound of the
crier's bell which advertised it.) "The Captain is rather down about it,
but I tell him to cheer up and he will soon get another vessel."

At that moment the Captain called to him from the wharf. He looked like
a man just from the country, with a cap made of a woodchuck's skin, and
now that I had heard a part of his history, he appeared singularly
destitute,--a Captain without any vessel, only a great-coat! and that
perhaps a borrowed one! Not even a dog followed him; only his title
stuck to him. I also saw one of the crew. They all had caps of the same
pattern, and wore a subdued look, in addition to their naturally
aquiline features, as if a breaker--a "comber"--had washed over them. As
we passed Wood End, we noticed the pile of lumber on the shore which had
made the cargo of their vessel.

About Long Point in the summer you commonly see them catching lobsters
for the New York market, from small boats just off the shore, or rather,
the lobsters catch themselves, for they cling to the netting on which
the bait is placed of their own accord, and thus are drawn up. They sell
them fresh for two cents apiece. Man needs to know but little more than
a lobster in order to catch him in his traps. The mackerel fleet had
been getting to sea, one after another, ever since midnight, and as we
were leaving the Cape we passed near to many of them under sail, and got
a nearer view than we had had;--half a dozen red-shirted men and boys,
leaning over the rail to look at us, the skipper shouting back the
number of barrels he had caught, in answer to our inquiry. All sailors
pause to watch a steamer, and shout in welcome or derision. In one a
large Newfoundland dog put his paws on the rail and stood up as high as
any of them, and looked as wise. But the skipper, who did not wish to be
seen no better employed than a dog, rapped him on the nose and sent him
below. Such is human justice! I thought I could hear him making an
effective appeal down there from human to divine justice. He must have
had much the cleanest breast of the two.

[Illustration: A Provincetown fishing-vessel]

Still, many a mile behind us across the Bay, we saw the white sails of
the mackerel fishers hovering round Cape Cod, and when they were all
hull-down, and the low extremity of the Cape was also down, their white
sails still appeared on both sides of it, around where it had sunk, like
a city on the ocean, proclaiming the rare qualities of Cape Cod Harbor.
But before the extremity of the Cape had completely sunk, it appeared
like a filmy sliver of land lying flat on the ocean, and later still a
mere reflection of a sand-bar on the haze above. Its name suggests a
homely truth, but it would be more poetic if it described the impression
which it makes on the beholder. Some capes have peculiarly suggestive
names. There is Cape Wrath, the northwest point of Scotland, for
instance; what a good name for a cape lying far away dark over the water
under a lowering sky!

Mild as it was on shore this morning, the wind was cold and piercing on
the water. Though it be the hottest day in July on land, and the voyage
is to last but four hours, take your thickest clothes with you, for you
are about to float over melted icebergs. When I left Boston in the
steamboat on the 25th of June the next year, it was a quite warm day on
shore. The passengers were dressed in their thinnest clothes, and at
first sat under their umbrellas, but when we were fairly out on the Bay,
such as had only their coats were suffering with the cold, and sought
the shelter of the pilot's house and the warmth of the chimney. But when
we approached the harbor of Provincetown, I was surprised to perceive
what an influence that low and narrow strip of sand, only a mile or two
in width, had over the temperature of the air for many miles around. We
penetrated into a sultry atmosphere where our thin coats were once more
in fashion, and found the inhabitants sweltering.

Leaving far on one side Manomet Point in Plymouth and the Scituate
shore, after being out of sight of land for an hour or two, for it was
rather hazy, we neared the Cohasset Rocks again at Minot's Ledge, and
saw the great Tupelo-tree on the edge of Scituate, which lifts its dome,
like an umbelliferous plant, high over the surrounding forest, and is
conspicuous for many miles over land and water. Here was the new iron
light-house, then unfinished, in the shape of an egg-shell painted red,
and placed high on iron pillars, like the ovum of a sea monster floating
on the waves,--destined to be phosphorescent. As we passed it at
half-tide we saw the spray tossed up nearly to the shell. A man was to
live in that egg-shell day and night, a mile from the shore. When I
passed it the next summer it was finished and two men lived in it, and a
light-house keeper said that they told him that in a recent gale it had
rocked so as to shake the plates off the table. Think of making your bed
thus in the crest of a breaker! To have the waves, like a pack of hungry
wolves, eying you always, night and day, and from time to time making a
spring at you, almost sure to have you at last. And not one of all those
voyagers can come to your relief,--but when your light goes out, it will
be a sign that the light of your life has gone out also. What a place to
compose a work on breakers! This light-house was the cynosure of all
eyes. Every passenger watched it for half an hour at least; yet a
colored cook belonging to the boat, whom I had seen come out of his
quarters several times to empty his dishes over the side with a
flourish, chancing to come out just as we were abreast of this light,
and not more than forty rods from it, and were all gazing at it, as he
drew back his arm, caught sight of it, and with surprise exclaimed,
"What's that?" He had been employed on this boat for a year, and passed
this light every weekday, but as he had never chanced to empty his
dishes just at that point, had never seen it before. To look at lights
was the pilot's business; he minded the kitchen fire. It suggested how
little some who voyaged round the world could manage to see. You would
almost as easily believe that there are men who never yet chanced to
come out at the right time to see the sun. What avails it though a light
be placed on the top of a hill, if you spend all your life directly
under the hill? It might as well be under a bushel. This light-house, as
is well known, was swept away in a storm in April, 1851, and the two men
in it, and the next morning not a vestige of it was to be seen from the
shore.

A Hull man told me that he helped set up a white-oak pole on Minot's
Ledge some years before. It was fifteen inches in diameter, forty-one
feet high, sunk four feet in the rock, and was secured by four
guys,--but it stood only one year. Stone piled up cob-fashion near the
same place stood eight years.

When I crossed the Bay in the _Melrose_ in July, we hugged the Scituate
shore as long as possible, in order to take advantage of the wind. Far
out on the Bay (off this shore) we scared up a brood of young ducks,
probably black ones, bred hereabouts, which the packet had frequently
disturbed in her trips. A townsman, who was making the voyage for the
first time, walked slowly round into the rear of the helmsman, when we
were in the middle of the Bay, and looking out over the sea, before he
sat down there, remarked with as much originality as was possible for
one who used a borrowed expression, "This is a great country." He had
been a timber merchant, and I afterwards saw him taking the diameter of
the mainmast with his stick, and estimating its height. I returned from
the same excursion in the _Olata_, a very handsome and swift-sailing
yacht, which left Provincetown at the same time with two other packets,
the _Melrose_ and _Frolic_. At first there was scarcely a breath of air
stirring, and we loitered about Long Point for an hour in company,--with
our heads over the rail watching the great sand-circles and the fishes
at the bottom in calm water fifteen feet deep. But after clearing the
Cape we rigged a flying-jib, and, as the Captain had prophesied, soon
showed our consorts our heels. There was a steamer six or eight miles
northward, near the Cape, towing a large ship toward Boston. Its smoke
stretched perfectly horizontal several miles over the sea, and by a
sudden change in its direction, warned us of a change in the wind before
we felt it. The steamer appeared very far from the ship, and some young
men who had frequently used the Captain's glass, but did not suspect
that the vessels were connected, expressed surprise that they kept about
the same distance apart for so many hours. At which the Captain dryly
remarked, that probably they would never get any nearer together. As
long as the wind held we kept pace with the steamer, but at length it
died away almost entirely, and the flying-jib did all the work. When we
passed the light-boat at Minot's Ledge, the _Melrose_ and _Frolic_ were
just visible ten miles astern.

Consider the islands bearing the names of all the saints, bristling with
forts like chestnuts-burs, or _echinidoe_, yet the police will not let a
couple of Irishmen have a private sparring-match on one of them, as it
is a government monopoly; all the great seaports are in a boxing
attitude, and you must sail prudently between two tiers of stony
knuckles before you come to feel the warmth of their breasts.

The Bermudas are said to have been discovered by a Spanish ship of that
name which was wrecked on them, "which till then," says Sir John Smith,
"for six thousand years had been nameless." The English did not stumble
upon them in their first voyages to Virginia; and the first Englishman
who was ever there was wrecked on them in 1593. Smith says, "No place
known hath better walls nor a broader ditch." Yet at the very first
planting of them with some sixty persons, in 1612, the first Governor,
the same year, "built and laid the foundation of eight or nine forts."
To be ready, one would say, to entertain the first ship's company that
should be next shipwrecked on to them. It would have been more sensible
to have built as many "Charity-houses." These are the vexed Bermoothees.

Our great sails caught all the air there was, and our low and narrow
hull caused the least possible friction. Coming up the harbor against
the stream we swept by everything. Some young men returning from a
fishing excursion came to the side of their smack, while we were thus
steadily drawing by them, and, bowing, observed, with the best possible
grace, "We give it up." Yet sometimes we were nearly at a standstill.
The sailors watched (two) objects on the shore to ascertain whether we
advanced or receded. In the harbor it was like the evening of a holiday.
The Eastern steamboat passed us with music and a cheer, as if they were
going to a ball, when they might be going to--Davy's locker.

I heard a boy telling the story of Nix's mate to some girls as we passed
that spot. That was the name of a sailor hung there, he said.--"If I am
guilty, this island will remain; but if I am innocent it will be washed
away," and now it is all washed away!

Next (?) came the fort on George's Island. These are bungling
contrivances: not our _fortes_ but our _foibles_. Wolfe sailed by the
strongest fort in North America in the dark, and took it.

I admired the skill with which the vessel was at last brought to her
place in the dock, near the end of Long Wharf. It was candle-light, and
my eyes could not distinguish the wharves jutting out towards us, but it
appeared like an even line of shore densely crowded with shipping. You
could not have guessed within a quarter of a mile of Long Wharf.
Nevertheless, we were to be blown to a crevice amid them,--steering
right into the maze. Down goes the mainsail, and only the jib draws us
along. Now we are within four rods of the shipping, having already
dodged several outsiders; but it is still only a maze of spars, and
rigging, and hulls,--not a crack can be seen. Down goes the jib, but
still we advance. The Captain stands aft with one hand on the tiller,
and the other holding his night-glass,--his son stands on the bowsprit
straining his eyes,--the passengers feel their hearts halfway to their
mouths, expecting a crash. "Do you see any room there?" asks the
Captain, quietly. He must make up his mind in five seconds, else he will
carry away that vessel's bowsprit, or lose his own. "Yes, sir, here is a
place for us"; and in three minutes more we are fast to the wharf in a
little gap between two bigger vessels.

And now we were in Boston. Whoever has been down to the end of Long
Wharf, and walked through Quincy Market, has seen Boston.

Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Charleston, New Orleans, and the rest,
are the names of wharves projecting into the sea (surrounded by the
shops and dwellings of the merchants), good places to take in and to
discharge a cargo (to land the products of other climes and load the
exports of our own). I see a great many barrels and fig-drums,--piles of
wood for umbrella-sticks,--blocks of granite and ice,--great heaps of
goods, and the means of packing and conveying them,--much wrapping-paper
and twine,--many crates and hogsheads and trucks,--and that is Boston.
The more barrels, the more Boston. The museums and scientific societies
and libraries are accidental. They gather around the sands to save
carting. The wharf-rats and customhouse officers, and broken-down poets,
seeking a fortune amid the barrels. Their better or worse lyceums, and
preachings, and doctorings, these, too, are accidental, and the malls of
commons are always small potatoes. When I go to Boston, I naturally go
straight through the city (taking the Market in my way), down to the end
of Long Wharf, and look off, for I have no cousins in the back
alleys,--and there I see a great many countrymen in their shirt-sleeves
from Maine, and Pennsylvania, and all along shore and in shore, and some
foreigners beside, loading and unloading and steering their teams about,
as at a country fair.

When we reached Boston that October, I had a gill of Provincetown sand
in my shoes, and at Concord there was still enough left to sand my pages
for many a day; and I seemed to hear the sea roar, as if I lived in a
shell, for a week afterward.

The places which I have described may seem strange and remote to my
townsmen,--indeed, from Boston to Provincetown is twice as far as from
England to France; yet step into the cars, and in six hours you may
stand on those four planks, and see the Cape which Gosnold is said to
have discovered, and which I have so poorly described. If you had
started when I first advised you, you might have seen our tracks in the
sand, still fresh, and reaching all the way from the Nauset Lights to
Race Point, some thirty miles,--for at every step we made an impression
on the Cape, though we were not aware of it, and though our account may
have made no impression on your minds. But what is our account? In it
there is no roar, no beach-birds, no tow-cloth.

We often love to think now of the life of men on beaches,--at least in
midsummer, when the weather is serene; their sunny lives on the sand,
amid the beach-grass and the bayberries, their companion a cow, their
wealth a jag of driftwood or a few beach-plums, and their music the surf
and the peep of the beach-bird.

We went to see the Ocean, and that is probably the best place of all our
coast to go to. If you go by water, you may experience what it is to
leave and to approach these shores; you may see the Stormy Petrel by the
way, [Greek: thalassodroma,] running over the sea, and if the weather is
but a little thick, may lose sight of the land in mid-passage. I do not
know where there is another beach in the Atlantic States, attached to
the mainland, so long, and at the same time so straight, and completely
uninterrupted by creeks or coves or fresh-water rivers or marshes; for
though there may be clear places on the map, they would probably be
found by the foot traveller to be intersected by creeks and marshes;
certainly there is none where there is a double way, such as I have
described, a beach and a bank, which at the same time shows you the land
and the sea, and part of the time two seas. The Great South Beach of
Long Island, which I have since visited, is longer still without an
inlet, but it is literally a mere sand-bar, exposed, several miles from
the Island, and not the edge of a continent wasting before the assaults
of the Ocean. Though wild and desolate, as it wants the bold bank, it
possesses but half the grandeur of Cape Cod in my eyes, nor is the
imagination contented with its southern aspect. The only other beaches
of great length on our Atlantic coast, which I have heard sailors speak
of, are those of Barnegat on the Jersey shore, and Currituck between
Virginia and North Carolina; but these, like the last, are low and
narrow sandbars, lying off the coast, and separated from the mainland by
lagoons. Besides, as you go farther south, the tides are feebler, and
cease to add variety and grandeur to the shore. On the Pacific side of
our country also no doubt there is good walking to be found; a recent
writer and dweller there tells us that "the coast from Cape
Disappointment (or the Columbia River) to Cape Flattery (at the Strait
of Juan de Fuca) is nearly north and south, and can be travelled almost
its entire length on a beautiful sand-beach," with the exception of two
bays, four or five rivers, and a few points jutting into the sea. The
common shell-fish found there seem to be often of corresponding types,
if not identical species, with those of Cape Cod. The beach which I have
described, however, is not hard enough for carriages, but must be
explored on foot. When one carriage has passed along, a following one
sinks deeper still in its rut. It has at present no name any more than
fame. That portion south of Nauset Harbor is commonly called Chatham
Beach. The part in Eastham is called Nauset Beach, and off Wellfleet and
Truro the Back-side, or sometimes, perhaps, Cape Cod Beach. I think that
part which extends without interruption from Nauset Harbor to Race Point
should be called Cape Cod Beach, and do so speak of it.

One of the most attractive points for visitors is in the northeast part
of Wellfleet, where accommodations (I mean for men and women of
tolerable health and habits) could probably be had within half a mile
of the sea-shore. It best combines the country and the seaside. Though
the Ocean is out of sight, its faintest murmur is audible, and you have
only to climb a hill to find yourself on its brink. It is but a step
from the glassy surface of the Herring Ponds to the big Atlantic Pond
where the waves never cease to break. Or perhaps the Highland Light in
Truro may compete with this locality, for there, there is a more
uninterrupted view of the Ocean and the Bay, and in the summer there is
always some air stirring on the edge of the bank there, so that the
inhabitants know not what hot weather is. As for the view, the keeper of
the light, with one or more of his family, walks out to the edge of the
bank after every meal to look off, just as if they had not lived there
all their days. In short, it will wear well. And what picture will you
substitute for that, upon your walls? But ladies cannot get down the
bank there at present without the aid of a block and tackle.

Most persons visit the sea-side in warm weather, when fogs are frequent,
and the atmosphere is wont to be thick, and the charm of the sea is to
some extent lost. But I suspect that the fall is the best season, for
then the atmosphere is more transparent, and it is a greater pleasure to
look out over the sea. The clear and bracing air, and the storms of
autumn and winter even, are necessary in order that we may get the
impression which the sea is calculated to make. In October, when the
weather is not intolerably cold, and the landscape wears its autumnal
tints, such as, methinks, only a Cape Cod landscape ever wears,
especially if you have a storm during your stay,--that I am convinced is
the best time to visit this shore. In autumn, even in August, the
thoughtful days begin, and we can walk anywhere with profit. Beside, an
outward cold and dreariness, which make it necessary to seek shelter at
night, lend a spirit of adventure to a walk.

The time must come when this coast will be a place of resort for those
New-Englanders who really wish to visit the sea-side. At present it is
wholly unknown to the fashionable world, and probably it will never be
agreeable to them. If it is merely a ten-pin alley, or a circular
railway, or an ocean of mint-julep, that the visitor is in search
of,--if he thinks more of the wine than the brine, as I suspect some do
at Newport,--I trust that for a long time he will be disappointed here.
But this shore will never be more attractive than it is now. Such
beaches as are fashionable are here made and unmade in a day, I may
almost say, by the sea shifting its sands. Lynn and Nantasket! this bare
and bended arm it is that makes the bay in which they lie so snugly.
What are springs and waterfalls? Here is the spring of springs, the
waterfall of waterfalls. A storm in the fall or winter is the time to
visit it; a light-house or a fisherman's hut the true hotel. A man may
stand there and put all America behind him.

